Accused No.1 to 7 have been charge sheeted by the

 Inspector of Police CBI/BS&FC/Bangalore on 10.8.2009

 alleging offences punishable U/s. 120B r/w 409, 420, 467,

 468 and 471 of IPC and under Sec.13(2) r/w 13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act of 1988. 2. Brief and relevant facts leading to the case of

the prosecution are as under:- 3. With these allegations, the Complainant filed a

complaint. Based upon the said complaint Ex.P.1

Mr.Hithendra the then Superintendent of Police registered

the same in Crime in R.C.No.1(E) of 2008 and prepared

FIR as per Ex.P.543 handed over investigation to PW124 by

name Ms. Prema Logan, being the then Police Inspector,

CBI, Bank Securities and Fraud Cell, Bengaluru. 4. This P.W.124 on taking up investigation,

conducted the search of the house of accused No.1.

Recorded the statements of various witnesses so examined

in this case, collected the documents so marked as exhibits

in this case. Handed over the investigation to P.W.125 Smt.

Chandra Rani. This P.W.125 on taking up investigation,

recorded the statements of witnesses, collected voluminous

documents which are marked in this case. As there was

prima facie case, made out to file charge sheet against

accused, she filed charge sheet. 5. The records further do reveal that during the

course of investigation these accused persons were

enlarged on bail. 6. After filing of the charge sheet, cognizance of

the offence was taken, presence of the accused was

secured. Copies of police papers are supplied to accused as

contemplated under Sec.207 of Cr.P.C. 7. Initially charge sheet was filed before the

Special Court to deal with the cases under the provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . After establishment of

this court as per Government Order No.LAW 10 LCE 2018

dt.8.2.2018 and notification of Hon'ble High Court of

Karnataka bearing No.GOB(I)1/2018, Dt.23.2.2018

exclusively to deal with criminal cases related to elected

MPs/MLAs in the State of Karnataka, the entire records of

this case are transmitted to this court. Presence of accused

is secured before this court also. The records of this case

further reveal that, one of the accused has preferred

Crl.R.P. No.326/2013 before the Hon'ble High Court of

Karnataka. The records further reveal that, the orders in 11 Spl.CC No.171/2009 the said Crl.R.P. is awaited. The Learned predecessor of

this court has passed a detailed order on 30.11.2018

stating that, as the said stay order was operating from

more than six months, therefore, as per the direction of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court of India referred to in the said

order, case was posted for framing of charge. As the

accused have not reported about the progress of Crl.

Revision petition, after hearing both the sides, charges

against the accused persons for offences punishable U/s.

120B r/w 409, 420, 467, 468 and 471 and under Sec.13(1) (d) r/w 13(2) of P.C.Act framed, read over and explained to

accused in kannada in the language known to them. They

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Subsequently,

the said Crl.R.P. was got dismissed by the accused as not

pressed. 8. Prosecution to substantiate the guilt of the

accused in all examined 125 witnesses as PW1 to 125 and

got marked Ex.P.1 to 585 with respective signatures

thereon. On behalf of the defence Ex.D.1 to Ex.D.14 are

marked. Thereafter, prosecution closed its evidence. 12 Spl.CC No.171/2009 9. After closure of evidence by prosecution,

statement of accused persons is recorded under Sec.313 of

Cr.P.C., so as to enable them to answer the incriminating

circumstances appearing in the evidence of prosecution.

The accused denied their complicity in the crime, did not

choose to lead any defence evidence on their behalf.

Accused No.1 to 5 have submitted their respective written

statement. 10. Heard the arguments of learned Special PP and

learned counsel for accused No.1 and accused No.2 to 7 at

length. 11. It is argued by the learned SPP that in this case

accused No.1 to 7 have been charge sheeted for the

offences punishable U/s. 409, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120B

of IPC and under Sec.13(2) r/w 13(1)(d) of Prevention of

Corruption Act 1988. He submits that accused No.6 and 7

are the companies being the developers of layouts. Accused

No.3 and 4 are the partners and accused No.5 is the

Managing Director. He further submits that accused No.1

at the relevant time was working as Chief Manager of 13 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Specialized Personal Banking Branch, Gandhinagara. All

these accused have cheated the bank. He placed reliance

on the allegations made in the charge sheet. It is further

submitted by him that accused No.1 was found with blank

cheques belongs to accused No.2. House loan has to be

released phasewise. But this accused has not followed the

said procedure being adopted by the SBM. Development

cost and site purchase cost are different and at different

stages amount is to be released. 12. It is further submitted by him that the rate of

interest of housing loan is about 8% and for commercial

purpose rate of interest is between 13 to 14%. But these

accused No.6 and 7 being the Company and developers of

the layout have availed the loan at the rate of interest of

8.5% styling it as housing loan. Thus caused loss to State

Bank of Mysore. These accused No.2 to 4 have lured the

customers to purchase sites by appointing agents. Though

the layouts are not formed or developed, the loan has been

granted by the accused No.1, even there was no

construction of houses. 13. He further argued that while granting housing

loan no proper procedure is being followed by accused

No.1 being the Chief Manager of SPB Branch,

Gandhinagara of SBM and these accused No.2, 3 4, 6 and 7

are involved in the commission of crime in the manner

alleged in the charge sheet. At the time of granting house

loan, fake salary certificates have been entertained by this

accused No.1 and they have been collected by the agents of

accused No.6 and 7. The Investigation Officer has collected

the information from various companies like BMTC,

KSRTC, S.W.Railway and other concerned, wherein they

have specifically stated that whatever certificates being

issued to the employees are all fake certificates. So they

did not admit about issuance of the said salary certificates.

But based upon those fake salary certificates this accused

No.1 has entertained the loan applications and granted

loan at the lowest rate of interest at 8.5% p.a. and that

amount has been utilised by accused No.6 and 7 for their

business. Thus loss has been caused by the accused

persons to the State Bank of Mysore and it is notional loss. 15 Spl.CC No.171/2009 14. Second limb of arguments of the SPP is that,

this accused No.1 has entertained discounting of bills and

so also he has purchased cheques, though there is

statutory limit being fixed by the Head Office of SBM, but

this accused No.1 has exceeded his discretionary limit of

discounting limit as well as cheque purchase. Therefore, it

is submitted that by the learned SPP that the contents of

the complaint as well as investigation papers do reveal

about entertaining fake salary slips, discounting cheques

beyond discretion and this accused No.1 has exceeded the

power despite the instructions given by the head office and

clandestinely this accused No.1 has acted against the

instructions of Regional Office. It should have been genuine

cheque purchase. But this accused No.1 has entertained

accommodative cheques and given discount even to the

local cheques also. These local cheques as well as self-

cheques have been entertained. The amount involved in

this case is about Rs.07 crores. The Control returns

submitted by the accused to the Regional Office detected

the fraud committed by the accused persons. He has 16 Spl.CC No.171/2009 placed reliance on the statement of PW1 who has

specifically stated about the fraud being detected at the

time of scrutinizing the records of the said branch with

regard to the granting of housing loan and discounting of

cheques and purchase of cheques etc. He placed reliance

upon the delegation of power circular issued by the Head

Office. It is further submitted by the learned SPP that on

overall reading of the entire evidence on record by the

prosecution, it do prove the case of the prosecution.

Therefore, he submits that the prosecution is able to

establish the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. 15. In support of his submission, he placed reliance

upon the following judgments:- 16. As against this submission, learned counsel for

accused No.1 submits that, the evidence placed on record 17 Spl.CC No.171/2009 by the prosecution do not prove the offences against the

accused persons. He submits that, if at all the accused have

misappropriated the amount released in favour of the

customers i.e., intending purchasers of the site and houses

being developed and constructed by accused No.6 and 7,

these accused persons are the main reasons to recover the

loan amount being raised by the borrowers. There is no

abuse of power by accused No.1 in the manner stated by

the prosecution. He further submits that to attract the

provisions of Sec.13(1)(c) and (d) of Prevention of

Corruption Act , the prosecution is under obligation to

prove the abuse of the position by accused No.1 as Chief

Manager of the said branch. There is no allegations of

forgery being committed by any of the accused with regard

to the documents being collected at the time of granting

loan to the borrowers who are the intending purchasers of

the sites and houses being developed and constructed by

accused No.6 and 7. He relied on definition of Sec.467 of

IPC so, also Sec.30 of the IPC. According to him Sec.467 of

IPC is not attracted. He places reliance upon the definition 18 Spl.CC No.171/2009 of various offences alleged against the accused persons.

He submits that there is no direct allegation by CBI that

the salary certificates are forged. Therefore, Sec.467 and 468 of IPC are not attracted and they will no come into

picture. He further submits that, PW3's evidence is quite

against the contents of Ex.P.4, 5 and 6. 17. It is further submitted by the counsel for the

accused No.1 that the prosecution is under obligation to

prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. But it is relying

upon only the circumstances, so brought on record through

the witnesses so examined. He submits that the Manager of

the Bank is supposed to help the customers within the

parameters of law. The prosecution must to prove the mens

rea and also malafide intention, so also the motive to

commit the offence. All the actions did by the accused are

recognized by law and has not gone out of way or violated

the jurisdiction vested in him. To that effect if the evidence

of Complainant is read, it is very much clear about the

transparency being followed by the accused No.1 and he

has always maintained transparency in his business. This 19 Spl.CC No.171/2009 accused No.1 has been awarded with various awards and

he was conferred with Best Manager Award, his branch has

reached 40% marks and Head Office has granted 40 out 40

marks. Therefore, he submits that the cross-examination of

PW1 simply proves the innocence of accused No.1. The

complaint itself shows that the Complainant has not read

the relevant records and has not followed the proper

procedure. Therefore, he submits that his evidence is false

and cannot be accepted. 18. He further submits that, the evidence of PW2 is

also quite against the contents of Ex.P.3 i.e., limited

disbursement of the loan as per the circulars of Head

Office of State Bank of Mysore. He also submits that, the

evidence of PW3 shows that he has not collected any

documents and the evidence of these witnesses is quite

contrary to the case of the prosecution. The records do

reveal that this accused No.1 was transferred from the

said branch on 16.1.2006 and thereafter, similar

transactions were entertained by the succeeding managers

of the said branch. But the bank is not questing the act of 20 Spl.CC No.171/2009 succeeding managers of the branch. But questioning the

very act of accused No.1. One Muralidhar, after the

transfer of accused No.1, took the charge as Chief

Manager of said branch and he purchased cheques

exceeding his power / limit. That Muralidhar is examined

as PW7 in this case. He submits that it is routine

transaction in the bank so as to help the customers and

banker is dignified borrower. This exceeding of the limit is

not forbidden by law. Accused No.1 was asked not to

purchase cheques till realisation of the old cheques. That

means that the acts of accused No.1 in purchase of the

cheques or to give discount of the bills is being ratified by

the Regional Office and temporarily he was asked to stop

purchase of the cheques till realisation of the cheques

already purchased. 19. It is further submitted by counsel for the

accused No.1 that, the reason so assigned by the witnesses

so examined in this case are not in accordance with law

and there is no violation of any procedure by accused No.1 21 Spl.CC No.171/2009 at any point of time. There is no clarity in the evidence of

PW7. 20. It is further submitted by the counsel for the

accused No.1 that, what is required for the layout. It

requires formation of layout, drainage, electricity,

identifying the sites. The evidence so produced on record

by the prosecution itself proves that these accused No.6

and 7 have developed the respective sites and have sold

the sites to respective customers and these customers have

raised loans from State Bank of Mysore, SPB branch and

agents of the accused No.6 and 7 have helped. Voluntarily

these customers have borrowed the loan. In this case

evidence of PW8 is very much important. So also the

admissions given by PW8 specifically proves that the

defence of accused No.1 that he is quite innocent. He relies

upon the evidence of various witnesses in this case so

examined. 21. In support of his submission with regard to

cheque discounting etc., he places reliance on the following

judgments:- 22. Learned counsel for accused No.2 to 7 argued

that, there is an attempt by the prosecution to prove its

case basing upon the following factors. With regard to the

selling of the sites formed in the respective layouts of

accused No.6 and 7, it is alleged that there was no layout

formation, there was no electricity and there was no

development etc. But this assertion of the prosecution has

been falsified by the admissions given in the cross-

examination. 23. He submits that, there is allegation of

fabrication of salary certificates being collected at the time 23 Spl.CC No.171/2009 of granting of loan by accused No.1. According to the

prosecution, remaining accused are the main cause for

fabrication. The question comes according to him, that,

who forged the contents of the salary certificates. It is the

duty of the I.O. to investigate. Mere allegation against the

accused person that, there is fabrication of salary

certificate is not a proof. The documents have been relied

upon by the counsel for the accused No.2 to 7 and he

submits that, the charge so framed in this case do not

attract the commission of offence by accused persons.

Accused No.1 is charged for offence under Sec.409 of IPC.

So also he has been charged with the offence U/s.420 of IPC . So far as other accused are concerned, charges are

framed against them for other offences as stated supra.

Thus documents like salary certificate and form No.16, it is

alleged that they are fabricated. Accused no.3 and 4,

according to the prosecution, are the main cause for this

fabrication. He submits that the allegations so made by the

prosecution against these accused is a contingent

allegation and it is virtually contingent in nature. It is 24 Spl.CC No.171/2009 alleged that borrowers have been set up by the two

developers, motive is available for availing the housing

loans, it is used for commercial purpose and thus there is

notional loss to the bank. The allegation so made in the

charge sheet is for notional loss. The difference of interest

of 5% p.a. The bank charges interest at the rate of 13.5%

p.a. to the commercial loan and to the housing loan it

charges interest at the rate of 8.5 % p.a. The records so

produced by the prosecution prove that many loans have

been paid to the borrowers and some of the loans have

been taken over by the developers by re-buying the

property. Therefore, it is nobody's case that loan so availed

is not repaid. Bill discounting is alleged exceeding the

discretionary limits. He also relies upon the definition of

various offences alleged against the accused and submit

that to prove the conspiracy between the accused persons,

meeting of mind is necessary and in this case it is missing. 24. It is further submitted by counsel for accused

No.2 to 7 that, the allegation is against only 24 borrowers

and not against all 174 borrowers. Borrowers having 25 Spl.CC No.171/2009 purchased the sites, have sold their sites and prosecution

has no allegation at all with regard to said re-sale. No fraud

is detected. The statements so recorded by the I.O. under Sec.161 of Cr.P.C., and the evidence so recorded by the

prosecution, if looked into, in this case the role of I.O. is

vital and there is no proper investigation being carried out

by the I.O. If the investigation was properly carried out,

I.O. then would have brought real facts before the court

and I.O. would not have filed charge sheet against the

accused persons. 25. It is further submitted by counsel for accused

No.2 to 7 that, there is no role being played by these

accused No.2 to 7 in the grant of loan. Almost six

borrowers so examined in this case, have stated that

agents have committed forgery and eight borrowers of the

loan transaction have been repaid by the sale or by on their

own. Some borrowers have repaid the loan. Three

borrowers have received their sites. Three of them say

construction is completed. Therefore, when the

construction is completed and keys have been handed over, 26 Spl.CC No.171/2009 the prosecution cannot now say that no layout is formed,

no development has taken place etc. Therefore, a basic

introductory introduction of forgery is not proved by the

prosecution with legal evidence. There is no proper

investigation in the line which is expected by the I.O. Role

of the agents is not ascertained by the I.O. Investigation

was not carried out on that aspect. All the borrowers would

have been arrayed as approvers as per Sec.306 of IPC. It is

not done. No evidence is placed by the prosecution that the

bank has really suffered the monetary loss. He too relies on

the various evidence of witnesses so examined by the

prosecution in this case and thus the learned counsel for

accused No.2 to 7 with all vehemence submits that the

prosecution has utterly failed to prove the guilt of the

accused beyond reasonable doubt and hence, accused No.1

to 7 are entitled for acquittal. 26. At the time of hearing the arguments, it is

noticed that, charge so framed in this case is not properly

framed. Learned S.P.P. filed application under Sec.216 of

Cr.P.C. for alteration of charge. Counsels for accused 27 Spl.CC No.171/2009 submitted their no objection. Accordingly, a detailed order

came to be passed by this court on 11.12.2019 and charge

came to be altered. Altered charge read over and explained

to the accused persons in the language known to them.

They pleaded not guilty and claims to be tried. It is

submitted by both the side that, in view of leading evidence

in this case, no further evidence is necessary. Hence,

evidence on altered charge is closed. 27. I have applied my mind to the arguments of both

sides. In the light of the prosecution evidence so recorded,

so also in the light of the submissions being made by the

sides, the following points arise for my consideration:- 1) Whether the prosecution proves
 beyond all reasonable doubt that during
 the period between 2003 and 2006
 accused No.1 being a Chief Manager,
 State Bank of Mysore, Specialized
 Personal Banking Branch, Gandhinagara
 having entrusted with the power of
 sanction and disbursement of credit
 facilities in the housing loan sector and
 he connived and conspired with accused 28 Spl.CC No.171/2009 No.2 to 7, fraudulently sanctioned a loan
of Rs.5.50 crores to 76 borrowers in the
name of non-existing employees of HAL,
BMTC, KSRTC by accepting bunch of
loan applications from accused No.6 and
7 M/s.Trishul enterprises and M/s. Seven
Hill Properties Pvt Ltd., represented by
accused No.2 to 5, who are partners and
directors along with forged and
fabricated form No.16 and salary
certificates purported to have been
issued by above said organizations by
illegal means and thereby committed an
offence punishale u/s 120B of IPC? 2) Whether the prosecution further
proves beyond all reasonable doubt that
accused No.1 connived and conspired with accused Nos.2 to 7, sanctioned 27 housing loans amounting to Rs.1.50
crores in the name of several existing
and non-existing employees of BSNL,
South Western Railways, Foreman
Training, etc., totally 124 housing loans
sanctioned and released amounting to
Rs.8,12,72,934/- in the name of several
existing and non-existing employees by
dishonestly inducing them and thereby 29 Spl.CC No.171/2009 committed an offence punishable u/s 420
r/w sec.120B of IPC? 3) Whether the prosecution further
proves beyond all reasonable doubt that
accused No.1 connived and conspired
with accused No.2 to 4 sanctioned and
released 124 housing loans in the name
of several existing and non-existing
employees by forging salary certificates
purported to be a valuable security and
thereby committed an offence
punishable u/s 467 r/w sec.120B of IPC? 4) Whether the prosecution further
proves beyond all reasonable doubt that
accused No.1 connived and conspired
with accused No.2 to 4 forged salary
certificates, Form No.16 of various non- existing employees and intended to use
them for the purpose of cheating the
Bank by sanctioning loans in their name
and thereby committed an offence
punishable u/s 468 r/w sec.120B of IPC? 5) Whether the prosecution further
proves beyond all reasonable doubt that
accused No.1 connived and conspired
with accused No.5, without proper 30 Spl.CC No.171/2009 scrutiny of false sale invoices, lorry
receipts, confirmation receipts of
consignment, discounted the bills,
dishonestly transferred the amount and
thereby committed an offence
punishable U/s. 420 r/w sec.120B of IPC? 6) Whether the prosecution further
proves beyond all reasonable doubt that
accused No.1 being a Chief Manager of
Specialized Personal Banking Branch,
State Bank of Mysore, Gandhinagar
Branch was entrusted with a duty to
discount the cheques in the capacity of
Chief Manager of the said Bank Limit,
discounted the cheque, connived and conspired with accused Nos.2 to 4 without following the prescribed
discretionary limit, discounted cheques
and thereby committed an offence
punishable u/s 409 r/w sec.120B of IPC? 7) Whether the prosecution further
proves beyond all reasonable doubt that
accused No.1 connived and conspired with accused Nos.2 to 4, 6 & 7 fraudulently and dishonestly used the
salary certificates, Form No.16 which
they knew at the time of sanctioning and 31 Spl.CC No.171/2009 releasing of House Loan to the
 borrowers were forged documents and
 thereby committed an offence of
 punishable U/s. 471 r/w 120B of IPC ? 8) Whether prosecution further proves
 beyond all reasonable doubt that
 accused No.1 being the Chief Manager
 of the aforesaid Bank during his term
 between 2003 to 2006 in connivance
 with accused Nos.2 to 12 by corrupt and
 illegal means, abusing his position as a
 public servant got pecuniary advantage
 by sanctioning and releasing the
 Housing Loan to the non-existing
 employees by accepting forged and
 fabricated salary certificates, Form
 No.16, discounted the cheques and bills
 beyond discretionary Limit and thereby
 committed an offence punishable u/s
 13(1)(d) r/w sec.13(2) of Prevention of
 Corruption Act, 1988? 9) What order or sentence? 28. My answer to the above points are as under:- 29. Point No.1 to 8:- These points so raised supra

are inextricably mixed up with each other. Therefore, I

would like to discuss them together so as to avoid

repetition of discussion and confusion. To ascertain the

truth in this case, it is just and proper to refer the evidence

so recorded in this case by the prosecution. The witnesses

so examined in this case, PW1 to 11 are the officials of the

then State Bank of Mysore. Some of them have retired and

some are still working. They have come before the court to

depose about their respective roles being played right from

the filing of complaint till completion of investigation. 30. Amongst the witnesses so examined in this case,

PW1 Ramadas Naidu is the complainant. He states before

the court on oath that during his services with State Bank 33 Spl.CC No.171/2009 of Mysore he worked as Chief Manager and Chief Vigilance

Officer. He ordered for investigation by the vigilance

department in the matter of arranging loans to M/s.

Thrishul Enterprises and Seven Hills Properties Pvt Ltd.,

He specifically states that, the partners and the Directors

of the said companies have forwarded bunch of

applications to the branch i.e., 76 loan applications from

M/s. Trishul Enterprises and 27 housing loans applications

from Seven Hills Properties Pvt Ltd. In the month of

December 2005 Regiional Office of SBM has noticed that in

respect of various loans sponsored by these two companies

were not genuine and were bogus and fabricated. The

departments who being issued said salary certificates

denied that they have issued such salary certificates. Said

Departments are HAL, BMTC, KSRTC, BSNL, South

Western Railways, Foreman Training Institute, etc. The

Regional Office reported these facts to the Vigilance Office

in the month of March 2006. 31. He says that, based upon the said report

submitted to the Regional Office, this PW1 ordered for 34 Spl.CC No.171/2009 investigation by the Vigilance Department. When the

Vigilance Department did internal investigation, he states

that, it was noticed by the Vigilance Cell that the

certificates were fake and forged. It is also noticed by the

investigation cell that the cheques were purchased on

behalf of the said companies and its partners and so also

the directors in spite of Regional Office directed the branch

not to purchase such cheques bearing higher amount. It is

further stated by this witness that some of the cheques

were returned unpaid and it was not at all reported to the

Regional Office. Therefore, he says that said amount so

involved is more than Rs.5 Crores. Therefore, he lodged

complaint before the CBI (Banking Security and Fraud

Cell) for further investigation at their end as per CVC

guidelines. Said complaint is marked in this case as per

Ex.P.1 and the documents submitted along with the

complaint is marked Ex.P.2. 32. On scrupulous reading of this Ex.P.1 and 2, they

reveal that, based upon the investigation report submitted 35 Spl.CC No.171/2009 by the Vigilance Cell, this PW1 lodged a complaint as

stated supra. 33. In the cross-examination, directed to this PW1,

he states as under:- 34. Thus it is very much clear from the evidence of

this PW1 that, before filing complaint, he has not seen the

loan applications submitted to the State Bank of Mysore. It

is further elicited that, circular and guidelines have been

issued by the Central Vigilance Commission is binding on

the State Bank of Mysore. Said document is confronted to

PW1 and marked as Ex.D.1. In the cross-examination, PW1

categorically admitted that "every lending had a inherent

risk of default, likewise every loan sanctioned is a

commercial decision." Thus, this PW1 states whenever

bank lends loans, there is inherent risk of default. So every

loan sanctioned is a commercial decision. He further 36 Spl.CC No.171/2009 admits that, the then Chief Vigilance Officer of the Bank

has to verify the records and find out as to whether the

case is of vigilance angle or non-vigilance angle. He says

that as per circular of Head Office, Control Return has to

be submitted. He states that he is not aware of the fact in

this case that, before the cheque discount facility is

granted, there was a mortgage created by the borrower in

favour of the bank." He has not stated in the complaint or

before the I.O. , that the partners and directors of the said

companies submitted bunch of loan applications. So to the

extent of filing a complaint, the evidence of PW1 is to be

accepted. In the cross-examination, he has given so many

admissions. I am going to discuss about said admissions in

further paras. So, on the face of it, the evidence of PW1 is

to be accepted with regard to the filing of the complaint

based on the investigation report being submitted by the

I.O. 35. PW2 B.Ramakrishna, retired DGM of State Bank

of Mysore. He states that, he worked in the capacity of

Assistant General manager in the Regional Office, 37 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Benglauru. He has spoken before the court about the

procedures being followed by each branch of State Bank of

Mysore while granting housing loans, such as receipt of the

loan application from the borrower, demanding documents

like income and KYC documents and even he states that,

the Branch Manager has to ensure end use of funds for the

purpose for which the loan was sanctioned. He says that so

far as project loans are concerned, the bank will sanction

the loan on need base limits as per the bank scheme to the

developer/builder at the commercial rate of interest which

is higher than the loan sanctioned for the individual

housing loans. He says that at that time, commercial rate

of interest was varying from 13.75% to 14.5%. At the same

time, rate of interest for individual housing loans was at

8.5% p.a. He says that the development cost includes that

the builder has to purchase the land, develop the layout by

laying the roads, drainages, electricity connections, etc. He

says that in the present case, if the loan sanctioned to the

builder, the rate of interest would have been at 13.75% p.a.

Whereas the loans are sanctioned at 8.5% to the various 38 Spl.CC No.171/2009 borrowers , the difference of interest rate is called as a

opportunity cost loss to the bank. Thus it is the evidence of

PW2 and also other officials of the bank that because of

granting loan to the individual borrowers charging interest

at the rate of 8.5% p.a. and if the loan was granted in

favour of the builder or the developer, the rate of interest

would have been 13.75%. Therefore, this difference in

between 8.5% and 13.75% is the opportunity cost loss to

the bank. Whether, this submission of the prosecution is to

be accepted or not, we have to read the other evidence

being placed by the prosecution. 36. He further states that, by arranging such loans,

the bank sustained opportunity cost loss to the tune of

Rs.34 lakhs. Between 2003 to 2006 there was releasing of

housing loans to the extent of 2.47 crores towards

development cost in respect of M/s. Thrishul Enterprises,

whereas no development has taken place. An amount of

Rs.83 lakhs was released towards cost of of land to these

accounts. Thus he says that difference of rate of interest 39 Spl.CC No.171/2009 5.25% is the opportunity cost loss comes to the tune of

around Rs.34 lakhs. 37. He further says that "in routine course branch

cannot purchase cheques more particularly local cheques.

In case the customer wants a cheque purchase limit, the

bank manager has to make proper assessment of the

cheque purchase limit of the customer and take adequate

collateral security." He further states that, "in this case

accused No.1 purchased cheques of accused No.6 firm

routinely, on various occasions cheques were dishonoured,

the same was not reported to the regional manager who is

controlling authority. He identifies housing loan files,

cheques purchase register, discounting of bills, etc. 38. This PW2 have been thoroughly cross-examined

by the counsels of accused No.1 to 7. In the cross-

examination directed to PW2 by counsel for accused no.1,

he states that, without going through the records he cannot

say what was the amount due to the branch when the file

was handed over to him. He admits that the I.O. did not

enquire him about the recovery of loans in this case. 40 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Further, he admits that, opportunity cost is a notional

calculation. He admits that, this opportunity cost has not

appeared in the balance sheet or in the audit report. He

further admits that, when his statement was recorded by

the I.O., he guessed the opportunity cost loss to the bank

and gave his opinion. He further admits that this

opportunity cost loss is based on several factors like rate of

interest, place of lending etc. Thus without going through

the records, this PW2 has spoken so many evidence in his

examination-in-chief and admission given by this PW2 are

against the examination-in-chief spoken to by this witness. 39. It is further elicited in the cross-examination of

this PW2 that, when a new branch is opened, it has to start

its business with collection of deposits and lending

respectively. He further admits that, considerable time will

take to reach the profit position when a new branch is

opened. These factors will be considered while opening a

new branch. He further states that, as per the plan of

regional office, a branch was opened at Gandhinagar, it has

to reach profit level within one year. Margin money will be 41 Spl.CC No.171/2009 collected on the basis of estimated cost of the project.

When he visited the Gandhinagar Branch, he examined the

control return register. He has not prepared the list in

respect of non-submitting of control returns by accused

No.1 In respect of 75 loan applications, the loan was lent

by the branch with interest at the floating rate of 11.25%

p.a., equally in respect of some housing loan interest rate

was 12.2% floating rate. So, he has given different

evidence in the cross-examination which goes against to

the case of the prosecution. 40. PW3 B.K.Venkatesh Murthy is AGM, SBI,

St.Marks Road Branch, Bengaluru, has come before the

court and says that he worked as Manager Vigilance at

State Bank of Mysore, Vigilance Department. On the

directions of the PW1, he conducted preliminary

investigation at SBM, Special Personal Banking Branch at

Gandhinagar and submitted a preliminary investigation

report in the month of May 2006 which is marked as Ex.P.3,

he has put his signature as per Ex.P.3(a). Along with his 42 Spl.CC No.171/2009 report he has annexed six documents which are marked as

Ex.P.3(b). I have scrupulously perused said report. 41. According to the evidence of PW3, he has

inspected 56 housing loan accounts of M/s. Seven Hills

Properties Pvt Ltd., and M/s. Thrishul Enterprises and that

of Asthra Developers. His initial finding was that, salary

certificates obtained from borrowers was not verified and

the same are fake. So it is stated by him that the accused

No.1 being the Manager of the Bank, did not verify the

salary certificates and they are fake. He further says that

before undertaking investigation by him, the Regional

Office has sent 30 housing loan application and documents

etc., of the borrowers who approached for loan by the

Employees of Railway Department. 42. Further this PW3 says that, he discounted

cheques of Seven Hills Properties Pvt Ltd., and also in the

name of accused No.2 beyond his discretionary powers. He

says that, discretionary power given to accused No.1 was

Rs.4 lakhs only with regard to discounting of cheque. He

states that, however, this accused no.1 discounted cheques 43 Spl.CC No.171/2009 of higher amount to the tune of Rs.25 laksh and 50 lakhs

etc. Thus he states that, there is dereliction of duty by

accused No.1. He admits about writing letter as per Ex.P.4.

So also Ex.P.5 another letter. According to him, he verified

the above documents before submitting his report and gave

a finding in his report that the housing loan accounts were

not conducted at the branch as per the guidelines of the

bank. All the deficiencies have been mentioned in his

report. 43. This PW3 is also directed with severe cross-

examination. It is elicited that except Ex.P.3, he did not

submit any other investigation report in this case. He

admits that this, Ex.P.3 does not contain the details of the

documents inspected by him. He says that, it is a

preliminary report and it will be followed by detailed

investigation report by the vigilance department. He

further admits that, in Ex.P.3 he mentioned that the branch

has sent control returns in all the cases of housing loans

sanctioned. 44. Either PW1 or PW2 have spoken before the

court about the receipt of the loan application by this

Gandhinagara Branch of State Bank of Mysore, which were

received at loan utsav conducted between 4.11.2005 to

6.11.2005. This PW3 has not spoken anything with regard

to loan utsav and receipt of loan application in his

examination-in-chief. In the cross-examination he says that,

so many loan applications received in the Loan Utasv and

he identified Ex.P.150. He says that loan utsav was

organised, which is a function to attract different

customers to different bank schemes. 45. It is the defence of the accused that, in the loan

utsav, when the customers contact for any loan, in principle

stating that the loan, will be sanctioned after fullfilling of

all the terms and conditions of the bank. He admits that in

principle the loan will be sanctioned by the bank by

mentioning the branch name to whom they have to

approach for further guidance. He identifies Ex.P.150(a

and b) the letters sent to that effect to the branch. Certain

replies have been sought by the regional office directing 45 Spl.CC No.171/2009 accused No.1 to submit his reply. But this PW3 says that he

does not know whether accused No.1 has submitted any

reply to the letters Ex.P.4 and 5. He further says that he is

unaware of the fact that accused No.1 replied to the

regional office stating that accused No.2 was the then

Minister who has given highest deposits of Rs.20 crores to

the branch and therefore, he is a valued customer. Further

he speaks ignorance about providing certain facilities

being granted to this accused No.2. 46. It is the defence of the accused persons that,

this accused No.2 is a valued customer having given

highest deposit of Rs.20 crores and therefore, he sought

some facilities of discounting of bills, etc., and that has

been provided by accused No.1. Hence, there is no

dereliction of any duties being did by the accused in the

manner alleged by the prosecution as per defence of

accused No.1. This PW3 has deposed ignorance to that

effect. 47. PW3 has further deposed ignorance that, all the

loans involved in this case are covered with mortgage of 46 Spl.CC No.171/2009 the property. When it is the specific case of the prosecution

that, whenever a loan is being granted, this accused No.1

has not followed the procedures. But whether the loans

have been granted by accused No.1 by creating mortgage

on the property, PW3 is unaware of the same. Ex.D.3 is

confronted to this witness and as per this Ex.D3 the

projected deposit was Rs.24.52 crores and actuals are

Rs.31.62 crores. The budgeted advance are 12.60 crores,

actuals are Rs.30.08 crores. This shows the efforts of

Accused No.1 in improving the business of the branch. But

this PW3 says that, he do not know the auditors who

audited the branch reported that the branch needs more

staff to assist accused No.1. 48. It is elicited that, periodically this Gandhinagar

Branch of State Bank of Mysore, undergone audits and

auditors have reported to the higher authorities that this

branch need more staff as accused No.1 is active Chief

Manager and has done so much business for the State

Bank of Mysore then. For this, he has deposed ignorance.

He is unaware of the fact that in this case the entire loan 47 Spl.CC No.171/2009 amount was repaid. He being the responsible officer of the

State Bank of Mysore, must know that whether entire loan

has been recovered or not. But this PW3 deposed

ignorance. He also deposed ignorance about the

discounted cheques have been realised. Thus PW3's

evidence has to be believed to the extent of conducting

investigation and submitting report. According to him,

based on the report collected by the I.O. and also

comparison of salary slips, he has commented as per

Ex.p.3. So to the extent of submitting a report, his evidence

is to be accepted. 49. PW4 K.R.Vasudeva is another official of the bank

worked as Manager cum Investigation Officer in the

Vigilance Department of State Bank of Mysore. According

to his evidence, his duty was to undertake preventive

vigilance visits to branches as per the directions of the

Chief Vigilance Officer. In the year 2006, he visited SPB

branch, Gandhi nagara on the instructions of CVO for

investigation of housing loan applications and cheque

purchases pertaining to the said branch. Along with him 48 Spl.CC No.171/2009 CW5 also accompanied him. He was confronted with report

being submitted as per Ex.P.7. Said report is also signed

by CW5 Manjunath. He says that, during the investigation

he has examined housing loan documents of individual

borrowers of Seven Hills Properties Pvt Ltd., and Thrishul

Enterprises. It is so revealed that, the KYC norms were not

followed. Salary certificate and income returns were not

verified by the branch. He says that accused No.1 financed

accused No.6 i.e., M/s. Thrishul Enterprises regarding the

housing loan like that of Seven Hills Properties Pvt Ltd. He

noticed deficiencies in respect of the borrowers documents. 50. It is further elicited from the mouth of this PW4

in the examination-in-chief that, the branch has purchased

cheques held in the name of accused No.2 D.Sudhakar,

accused No.6 Thrishul Enterprises, accused No.4 -

K.V.Hanumappa Reddy, accused No.7 - Seven Hills

Properties Pvt Ltd., and M/s. Seven Hill Distilleries.

Accused No.1 purchased cheques valuing more than the

discretionary powers conferred with him, which are more

accommodative in nature. The limit fixed for purchasing 49 Spl.CC No.171/2009 the cheque to accused No.1 was Rs.4 lakhs, but this

accused No.1 purchased cheques beyond his sanctioned

limit i.e., Rs.13.5 lakhs, Rs.25 lakhs etc. He identifies

Ex.P.7. 51. It is further stated by this PW4 that the

explanation was called from accused No.1 regarding the

irregularities in the cheques purchase. Accused No.1 has

submitted his explanation. Finally his finding during the

investigation was that housing loans were sanctioned

without verifying the salary certificates, KYC norms were

not followed. He identifies documents produced by

prosecution commencing from Ex.P.7 to 148 being the loan

applications processed at the time of granting loan by

accused No.1. So also he has verified cheque purchases. 52. His cross-examination so directed is worth

reading. It is elicited that during his tenure as Chief

Manager of the then State Bank of Mysore, he conducted

investigation of all the loan accounts pertaining to

Gandhinagara Branch. He admits that, whenever he

noticed non-receipt of confirmation from the employer with 50 Spl.CC No.171/2009 regard to salary certificate, he considered that as fake

salary certificate. Thus according to his evidence,

whenever, there was no confirmation letter issued by the

employer with regard to the salary certificate, he

considered them as fake salary certificate. He further

admits that, he personally has not made any efforts to

ascertain the genuineness of the salary certificates so

produced by the borrowers. Thus, altogether a different

evidence is spoken to by this witness. 53. This P.W.4 is confronted with Ex.P.153, which

shows that, on further enquiries of the branch, M/s.Kar

Mobiles name is shown and said company is in existence.

Salary certificate of employee of this Kar Mobiles is

produced in this case. The employees so stated by the bank

are not the employees of the said M/s.Kar Mobiles. 54. He further states in his cross-examination that,

prior to submission of his report also, there were two

reports i.e., from two auditors i.e., one from internal

investigation and another external verification audit report.

Defence manual is produced as per Ex.D.7. According to 51 Spl.CC No.171/2009 him, he was asked by his higher authorities only to find out

the loop holes in the functioning of Gandhinagara Branch.

He admits that the said branch was opened on 4.8.2003.

He further states that, it may be true that during his tenure

as Chief Manager of the said branch he has sanctioned 700

loans. Out of those loans, there were 593 housing loans. As

per his report, first discounting was done by accused No.1

on 8.9.2003 by exceeding the discretionary limit. He

admits that accused No.1 during his tenure has discounted

cheques not only of accused No.2 to 6 and 7, but also to

others exceeding the discretionary limit. So this evidence

of PW4 goes a long way in this case. In this case, accused

No.2 to 7 have been arrayed as accused in this case, who

have taken benefit of discounting of cheques and

discounting of bills. In addition to accused No.2 to 7, others

also have got the said benefit of discounting of cheques and

bills exceeding discretionary limits. But they have not been

made as accused in this case. 55. This PW4 admits that, such exceeding of

discretionary limit is not included in his investigation 52 Spl.CC No.171/2009 report. He personally had not addressed any letters to the

employers of the borrowers, who sought loan from

Gandhinagar Branch. He admits that, wherever he has

worked as the housing loan sanctioning authority, he

personally has not gone to the employer of the prospective

borrower to ascertain the genuineness and authenticity of

salary certificates furnished by the borrowers. But expects

this accused No.1 in the same capacity as Manager, has to

visit the employer to ascertain the genuineness of the

salary certificate. It is quite against the practice being

spoken by this PW4. 56. It is further elicited in the cross-examination of

PW5 that, as per his report, entertaining of fake salary

certificates by the said branch was noticed by them for the

first time in the month of December 2005. He admits that

after December 2005, there was no disbursement of loan to

accused No.6 and 7. As per his report, it was noticed by the

bank about the alleged fake salary certificate and it was

informed to the developers. The developers were

requested by the bank to come forward to recover the loan 53 Spl.CC No.171/2009 disbursed. The developers accordingly have agreed to

come forward to help in the loan recovery. So this

evidence of PW4 is quite against the very case made out by

the prosecution. 57. P.W.5 by name M. Sankaran being retired Chief

Manager states in his evidence that, from 2003 to 2006 he

worked as Chief Manager Audit (Mobile) having head

quarters at Bengaluru under the control of the inspection

department. According to his evidence, as per the

directions of the inspection department he audited the

accounts of SPB Branch, Gandhi Nagar for the period

commencing from 19.10.2015 to 30.12.2005. He also

audited the loan advance port folio department and also

other areas. He further states that, at the relevant time

accused No.1 was the manager of the said branch. He

identifies letter being issued by the management dated

30.12.2005. It is duly signed by him. Further, he states that

the salary certificates furnished have not been verified by

him. After sanction of the loan whether sites have been

registered in the name of borrower getting the khatha 54 Spl.CC No.171/2009 certificate by the borrower, Encumbrance Certificate and

Tax paid receipts have not been obtained. 58. It is the specific case of the prosecution that, the

salary certificates so obtained are fake certificates. But this

P.W.5 has not at all verified any salary certificates. He

further states that, purchase of local cheques/ demand

drafts exceeding the discretionary power vested with the

branch Manager. He further states that, the cheques

belongs to M/s Seven Hill Distilleries, Seven Hill

Properties, Bharath Raj A., H.S. Suresh, D. Sudhakar and

H. Mahadev were purchased without considering the

regular purchase limit. 59. This P.W.5 has been subjected to intensive cross-

examination by the counsel for accused No.1 to 7. It is

elicited that he also has seen the previous audit report for

the period as on 21.09.2004, wherein, it is observed by the

auditors that to match the speed of the Chief Manager,

some more staff is to be provided to Gandhi Nagara

Branch. He admits that, in all the aforesaid transactions

the legal opinion was obtained and kept in the files. He 55 Spl.CC No.171/2009 further admits that, the Gandhi Nagar Branch has promptly

sent the control reports in time, but say that though the

control reports are sent in time, he admits that controlling

authority has not sent the comments and observations in

respect of 110 loan accounts. 60. On reading the admissions of this P.W.5, it shows

that the accused No.1 being the Manager of SPB Branch,

Gandhi Nagar was very active and to cope up his speed, it

is observed by the auditors that, some more staff is to be

provided to Gandhi Nagar Branch. The act of accused No.1

in improving business of the bank is not questioned by

head Head Office. Even there is observations to provide

more staff. 61. This P.W.5 says that, in all the aforesaid

transactions the legal opinion was obtained and kept in the

files. So after obtaining the legal opinion only, the loans

have been sanctioned and disbursed. It is the case of

prosecution that, this accused No.1 did not send the

control returns in time. The P.W.5 admits that, the accused

No.1 has sent the control reports in time and the 56 Spl.CC No.171/2009 controlling authority has not sent the comments and

observations in respect of 110 loan transaction accounts.

So this shows that, the act of accused No.1 of granting loan

to the borrowers, and other transaction, so also

discounting of bills must have been ratified by the

controlling authority. Because of the same, no comments

were sent and no observations were made with regard to

control returns submitted by the branch. He further

admits in his cross-examination that, the

acknowledgements are received at the time of audit. The

control returns are submitted to the higher authorities just

to inform the higher authorities about what is happening in

the branch. That himself and controlling authority had

knowledge of improvement in the business of the bank. 62. It is further stated by P.W.5 that, he has

observed in his report that in respect of Hegde Nagara

project most of the construction is completed. It is further

elicited in the cross-examination by the counsel for accused

No.2 to 7 that, his report reflects about the stages of each

construction and their respective stages individually. So the 57 Spl.CC No.171/2009 head office had knowledge about the project being

launched by the accused No.6 and 7. Thus the evidence of

P.W.5 is rather helpful to the defence but not to the

prosecution in any manner. 63. P.W.6 by name M.L. Chandrashekar is the retired

Assistant Chief Manager, who has worked as Chief

Manager between 2004 - 2007 in the audit department.

According to his evidence, in the year 2006, he instructed

the inspection department to conduct audit of SPB Branch,

Gandhi Nagar. He conducted audit of the said branch for

the period commencing from 09.11.2006 to 19.12.2006. At

that time, C.W.9 B.C. Muralidhar was the Chief Manager of

the said branch. According to him, audit was conducted in

respect of the housing loan accounts sanctioned and

disbursed in various layouts developed by Seven Hill

properties, Astra Developers and other developers by the

branch. He speaks that, at the first instance itself lump

sum amounts exceeding costs of sites including part of

development and construction cost have also been released

without production of the above said records. In almost all 58 Spl.CC No.171/2009 the housing loan accounts estimates, approved building

plains, license, khatha certificates, latest tax paid receipts

of the borrowers were not available. He speaks about non

providing of civic amenities, and no site number were

assigned. So also he says that, there were no availability of

Pre-sanction and post-sanction inspection reports available

in the files. Further he states that, the salary certificates

issued by the Southern Railways were fake as per the the

report sent to the regional office. Further he states that,

though the balance of loan was outstanding in respect of

two borrowers the sale deeds were released to the

borrowers and their names are Syed Rizwanulla and M.

Kumar. These loan were sanctioned in the year 2003 and

2005 by accused No.1. 64. In the cross-examination, he admits that after

formation of layout and till the first sale of the site is being

done, till then no khatha is effected in the revenue records.

So this admission of P.W.6 shows that the khatha will be

effected only after the execution of the sale deed. Records

were produced by the borrowers and not obtained by the 59 Spl.CC No.171/2009 accused No.1. He says that, based upon the documents

avilable in the branch, he concluded his audit. In page 6 of

the cross-examination, this P.W.6 says that, during his

tenure as Manager of the SBM branch, he has not got the

confirmation from the employer about the issuance of

salary certificate of his employee, he tried to ascertain

their genuineness. He being the Manager of the branch

and he is expected to get the confirmation of salary

certificate. In the examination-in-chief, he says that the

salary certificates were fake. But no documents were

obtained from the employers of respective borrowers to

ascertain the genuineness of the salary certificates. So this

evidence of P.W.6 will not help the prosecution case in any

manner. 65. P.W.7 B.C. Muralidhar is the retired Assistant

General Manger of SBM Bank, having worked as Chief

Manager of SPB, Gandhi Nagar branch from 17.01.2006 to

11.06.2007. According to his evidence, he was instructed

to verify all those housing loan accounts and directed to

check as to whether the borrowers of the loan are actually 60 Spl.CC No.171/2009 employed in the organization and whether salary

certificates submitted are genuine. He says that, he wrote

letters to several organizations like HAL, BMTC, Foreman

Training Institute, KPTCL Training Institute and South

Western Railways. But he says that, he did not receive any

reply from the above said organizations. He reported the

same to his AGM. He identifies the report as per Ex.P.155.

He identified other documents from Ex.P.156 to P.180. 66. He further says that, the revenue authorities

have conducted mahazar by visiting projects and noticed

that sites were assigned with numbers in Kallagopanahalli

the layout stated to have been formed by M/s Seven Hills

Properties. He says no layout was formed in the above said

survey number, only site numbers were assigned. Other

facilities like roads, drainage connection, sanitary, water

and electricity connections were not found. He visited

Singapura Village of Yelahanka Hobli. Thus in his presence

mahazars are conducted in Sy.No.60 and 70 of Singapura

village. 67. In the cross-examination he says that, in

Ex.P.158 he has mentioned "salary particulars to be

confirmed". Further he says that, as per his observations in

Ex.P.158, he addressed letter to the respective employers

of the borrowers to provide information with regard to the

authenticity and genuineness of the salary certificates

furnished by the borrowers. But he says he has not

received any reply from employers. According to him oral

information has been received by him. He says that, he has

not personally verified any of the salary certificates

furnished by the respective borrowers. This evidence of

P.W.7 is against the case of the prosecution. 68. He further says that, based upon the report of

C.W.15 Nagendra, he has issued Ex.P.158. Thus no personal

inspection has been done by P.W.7. He says that without

seeing the records he cannot say the total extent of survey

number 18/2 and 19 of Kallugopanahalli village. He further

says that, at the time of his visit to the aforesaid survey

numbers he has not verified total sites being formed in the

layouts. But he says that he personally visited the said 62 Spl.CC No.171/2009 layouts. He do not remember about visit of all the

individual sites. 69. Further it is elicited in the cross-examination

that, they have not visited individual sites formed in the

aforesaid survey numbers. He admits that, they went inside

the layout, because houses were constructed in the layout.

So this evidence of P.W.7 shows that, construction was in

progress and some of the houses were constructed which

were ready for occupation. 70. He further admits that when he took charge as

Manager of Gandhi Nagar branch, some borrowers

approached his branch to repay the loan amount and asked

their title deeds back. He further admits that even brokers

by name Mohammed Amanulla and others approached the

bank with some third parties who were not borrowers and

stated that they are willing to take the plots by closing the

bank loans. He further states that, this fact was intimated

to accused No.2. He further admits that, some brokers

insisted to provide photo copies of the title deeds. He

further admits that, a meeting was conveyed at the 63 Spl.CC No.171/2009 regional office and the accused No.2 was instructed to

obtain the power of attorney of the borrowers and letter of

release signed by the borrowers. Further this P.W.7 admits

that, afterwards representative of accused No.6 and 7 used

to approach the bank with GPA or letter of authority with a

request to allow them to repay the loan and take away the

documents. He further admits that even the borrowers

used to visit the branch to put the signature acknowledging

the receipt of the title deeds. 71. He further says that accused No.2 informed the

bank not to entertain any borrowers or brokers as

developers will help the bank in recovering the loans, so

advanced. So this admission given by this P.W.7 will not

help the case of prosecution in any manner, but help the

case of defence. When it is specific case of prosecution that

the accused has exceeded discretionary limits, but

whatever transaction did by accused No.1 have been

completed on account of borrowers repaying the loan

amount. So when the transactions have been effected by

accused No.1 and accused No.2 informed the bank not to 64 Spl.CC No.171/2009 entertain any borrowers or brokers as the developers will

help the bank, it is argued that therefore, there is no point

in submitting that there is misappropriation being done by

the accused No.1 in any manner as alleged by the

prosecution. There is some substance in the submission of

counsel for accused. 72. P.W.8 Venugopal is the retired employee of SBI

and in the capacity of Assistant General Manger of Region-

IV of Bengaluru he has done so many duties. He speaks of

circulars have been issued by the bank as per Ex.P.181. He

speaks about the procedures with regard to granting of

house loan, purchase of bills, discounting of cheques/ bills

etc. He says that, during the year 2004 the financial power

of the said bank was Rs.35 lacs and regarding cheque

purchase it was Rs.4 lacs. He identifies inland bill register

showing entries of inland bill discounted by SBM, SPB,

Gandhi Nagar branch commencing from 16.09.2005 to

08.04.2006. The said inland bill register is marked at

Ex.P.192. According to his evidence, the documents so

produced by the prosecution as per Ex.P.192 and other 65 Spl.CC No.171/2009 documents are marked at Ex.P.192 to P.196, P.179, P.180,

P.178, P.199 etc., shows about the entries being made with

regard to discounting of cheques and purchase of bills.

According to his evidence, these documents show about

violating norms of the bank by accused No.1. He further

states that the borrowers have given certain title deeds to

the bank and the same have been marked at Ex.P.149.

Ex.P.8 and P.10 are confronted to him and he says that, he

found violation so did by Natasha Blossoms. Like wise he

identifies all the documents commencing from Ex.P.9 to

P.202 being the files maintained by the bank with regard to

to granting of house loans and others. 73. This P.W.8 has been directed with intensive

cross-examination. He says in the cross-examination that,

during his tenure as a Manager/ Chief Manager, he

sanctioned housing loans to the borrowers. Generally the

process of sanctioning loan takes time about 15-20 days.

He says that he has not gone to every employers to

ascertain about the genuineness of the salary certificates, 66 Spl.CC No.171/2009 so produced by the borrowers. He says that, when he was

the Manager/ Chief Manager etc., he used to delegate the

authority to approach the office to get the legal opinion to

his junior officers. He admits that, during his tenure at

Gandhi Nagar branch, there was no Field Officer posted.

He further admits that, the said SPB Gandhi Nagar branch

used to send control returns to the Regional Office and this

control returns contain transactions, names of borrowers,

amounts so sanctioned whether it is within discretionary

power or not. The purpose of sending the control returns

was to verify, whether the branch has observed all the

norms and also sanction is within the bank powers. 74. Thus, this P.W.8 admits that, as a Manager or

Chief Manager, he never went to the employer to ascertain

genuineness of the salary certificates produced by the

borrowers and he has delegated powers to get legal

opinion to his junior officers. According to his evidence,

within one month of noticing the control returns, the

Regional Office has to take appropriate action. But in this

case, it is the evidence of the witnesses that regarding 67 Spl.CC No.171/2009 exceeding discretionary limit by accused No.1, no action is

initiated by the Head Office. But it was directed to accused

No.1 not to entertain any discounting of cheques/ bills till

realization of earlier discounting of cheques/ bills. That

means, the Head Office was knowing about the activities of

accused No.1, perhaps Head Office has ratified the acts of

accused No.1. He has been identified as aggressive banker. 75. It is further elicited in the cross-examination

that, whenever a new branch is opened, it requires time to

earn profit. It is further elicited that, to attract the

borrowers, their bank used to conduct loan utsavas. It has

come in the evidence of witnesses that most of the loans

being entertained by accused No.1 were granted in the

loan utsav and the other formalities have been fulfilled as

the loan application were sent to Gandhi Nagar branch. It

is elicited that, in the loan utsav, the borrowers and

builders participated. 76. It is argued by the learned Public Prosecutor

that, beyond the bank's jurisdiction, accused No.1 has

granted loan. Therefore, it amounts the dereliction of 68 Spl.CC No.171/2009 duties. But P.W.8 says that, in Bengaluru city, there is no

command area restriction. He was confronted with Annual

Appraisal report marked at Ex.D.4. So this report do not

disclose questioning accused No.1 granting loan outside

his jurisdiction. The Ex.D.4 is very much silent to that

effect. 77. It is further elicited that, when audit is

conducted by a particular branch, the whole acocunt

system is being scanned and audited. During the financial

year of 2004-05, as per the performance of the said bank

the auditors submit the report with A+ grade. Even in the

year 2004-05 the said A+ is awarded to the SPB branch,

Gandhi Nagar, wherein this accused No.1 was the Chief

Manager. He admits that, during their review, they

ascertained that who are all the borrowers and what was

the quantum of loan sanctioned. So also major deposits by

major depositors which was within the knowledge of

inspecting authority or vigilance department. At one

breath, the Head Office awards grade A+ to the said

branch and appreciates the work culture of accused No.1, 69 Spl.CC No.171/2009 call him as aggressive banker. At another breath, questions

the act of accused No.1 alleging exceeding his

discretionary limits and granting of house loans by

accepting the documents submitted by the borrowers in

which salary certificates are alleged to be fake. There is no

consistency in the evidence of the witnesses. 78. He admits that, during the year 2004-05, it is

found that one Sri. Ronald Collaso and accused No.2 D.

Sudhar were the major customers of the aforesaid branch.

He deposed ignorance about bringing of Rs.60 crores

deposit by these two persons to the aforesaid Gandhi

Nagar branch. He further deposed ignorance that, whether

the Manager of the bank at a relevant time addressed a

letter to the Regional Office stating that, the aforesaid two

persons are the major customers. In this case, the accused

No.2 is a major customers as per the defence. Even other

witnesses have admitted the same with regard to deposits

made by this accused No.2. 79. This P.W.8 further admits that, every bank has

got a target of disbursing loan as well as bringing deposits 70 Spl.CC No.171/2009 every year. He admits that, accused No.1 exceeded the

target than the required target. Therefore, he has been

awarded with 40 marks out of 40. It has come in the

evidence of the witnesses that, the said Branch was having

dearth of staff. It is alleged that, accused No.1 has violated

norms of the bank. Even this P.W.8 admits that, this

accused No.1 was also issued a letter dated 06.04.2005

about his performance in the year 2004-05. The said letter

is marked at Ex.D.5, wherein we find appreciation of work

of accused No.1. This P.W.8 further admits that in the said

branch, there was no specific loan officer. 80. It is argued by the counsel for accused No.1

that, it was one man show and work of this branch has

been carried out by single man. He submits that, though

the Head Office appreciated the work of accused No.1 and

as the said branch has earned sufficient profit, but false

complaint is filed against accused No.1 and others. There is

some substance in the argument of counsel for accused

No.1. 81. This P.W.8 further deposed ignorance that,

whether the auditors of the bank in their report observed

about the growth in the business of the branch and

requirement of more staff. He being responsible officer of

the bank has deposed ignorance. 82. A question is directed to P.W.8 that, whether he

has sent any letter to accused No.1 to stop discounting of

cheques and purchase of bills?. The answer was whenever

it was found that the accused No.1 was exceeding his

discretionary limit, he was issued with letter calling upon

him to stop such discounting of cheques and purchase of

bills. It has come in the evidence of other witnesses that,

letters have been issued to accused No.1 to stop

discounting cheques and purchase of bills till realization of

earlier bills and cheques. That means, there is ratification

of conduct of accused No.1. 83. The counsel for accused No.1 has elicited in the

cross-examination that "majority of the mistakes pointed

out by the auditors were curable". So this admission of

P.W.8 goes long way. This P.W.8 is also ignorant that liability 72 Spl.CC No.171/2009 fastened on the borrowers/ beneficiaries is cleared. It is the

defence of accused that, whatever loans being sanctioned

by this accused No.1 have already been cleared. Even it

has come in the evidence of witnesses that, there was

opportunity loss being sustained by the bank because of

sanctioning house loan. That opportunity loss is not found

in the books of accounts of the bank. This P.W.8 further

admits, that if we look into the number of working days in

the year and number of loans sanctioned, he says that,

accused No.1 can be considered as aggressive banker. He

admits that, because of dearth of staff, some irregularities

have occurred. So this evidence of P.W.8 falsifies the very

case of the prosecution. 84. P.W.9 V. Sundar Rajan is the Chief Manager,

Industrial Finance branch, SBI, Residency Road, Bengaluru

was the Deputy Manager. He says in his evidence that on

verification of the salary certificates, employment details of

the borrowers and other documents being collected by the

SPB branch are not proper documents. According to him,

he verified 20 salary certificates, address proof issued by 73 Spl.CC No.171/2009 different authorities being submitted by the borrowers at

the aforesaid branch etc., and he verified other documents

also. During verification, according to him, the salary

certificates were found to be fake and not genuine. He

identifies certain document at Ex.P.203(a),(b),(c). But in the

cross-examination, this P.W.9 says that he has not received

any written information from BESCOM authorities

regarding issuance of fake salary certificates. If such an

evidence is brought on record through this witness, it is

hard to believe his examination-in-chief as he has not got

any written information from BESCOM regarding falsity of

slary certificates. Hence, the evidence of this witness may

not help the case of prosecution. 85. P.W.10 Anand, being retired bank official states

in his evidence that, he was posted to SPB branch, Gandhi

Nagar on 24.05.2004 as Deputy Manager, Accounts. He

worked in the said bank till 10.07.2007. At that time the

accused No.1 was the Chief Manager. He speaks of

procedures of being followed with regard to grant of loan

etc. This evidence is not disputed by the defence. 74 Spl.CC No.171/2009 86. He further states in this evidence that accused

No.1 had discretion to purchase cheques to the extent of

Rs.4 lacs, but he exceeded. He says that, whenever there is

exceeding of discretionary limits, this P.W.10 has brought to

the notice of this accused No.1. He identifies 8 Demand

Drafts marked at Ex.P.204 to P.211. He also identifies 52

cheques marked at Ex.P.212 to P.263. All these cheques

bear the initial of accused No.1. Some cheques bear his

signatures on the back leaf. Even he identified Ex.P.132 to

136 being the transfer debit, credit challan vouchers

signed by accused No.1. In all, there are 62 documents.

According to his evidence, in all there are 179 documents

marked in this case and the payment authorization have

been done by accused No.1 alone. According to him,

accused No.1 has acted beyond his discretionary limits

while purchasing cheques. 87. In the cross-examination he admits that, if the

cheque purchased is not realized as per the norms of the

bank, it attracts proportional interest with regard to the

number of days delay. In this case, no evidence is placed on 75 Spl.CC No.171/2009 record by the prosecution that, this realization of interest

was not at all done by this SPB branch, Gandhi Nagar. All

the cheques/ bills so discounted by accused No.1 have been

realized as per the evidence spoken to by the witnesses.

Even he admits that as per the procedure being adopted by

the bank, whenever there is delay in realization of the bills

discounted, the norms of their bank provide for recovery of

over due interest. He admits that in respect of three

discounted bills belongs to M/s Seven Hills Distilleries their

bank has recovered over due interest. So when over due

interest is already realized or recovered, how the Head

Office is finding mistakes in accused No.1 is not explained. 88. It is further elicited that, in the said SPB branch,

Gandhi Nagar there was no designated loan officer working

in the branch. He admits that all the aforesaid transactions

with regard to the house loan were processed in Loan Mela

Scheme. He further admits that, in principle in the Mela

itself, the loans were sanctioned. He admits that, whenever

there is dearth of staff, certain irregularities are bound to

occur. Thus the evidence of P.W.10 can be believed to the 76 Spl.CC No.171/2009 extent of he working with the said branch, but his evidence

so spoken in the cross-examination falsifies his

examination-in-chief. 89. P.W.11G.P. Prabhuswamy, is the retired official of

SBM. During the year 2009. He worked in the bank as

Chief Manager, Region-V, Mysore Zone. He also worked as

SBM Chief Manager (Advances) Region-IV at Bengaluru

from June 2005 to June 2006. He says that, control return

means loan sanctioned by using the discretion of the

branch manager and sending the same to the regional

office for approval. This fact is also spoken by other

witnesses. He says that, he dealt with control returns

submitted by Gandhi Nagar Branch, when accused No.1

was the Manager at the relevant time. He says, on receipt

of the control returns, it is the duty of the regional office to

verify and ascertain the loan sanction as per the norms of

the then State Bank of Mysore. He says, while verifying the

returns being submitted by the Gandhi Nagar, it is noticed

by him that, the salary certificates of the borrowers to

whom the loans were sanctioned by accused No.1 were 77 Spl.CC No.171/2009 with discrepancies. According to him, there must be

difference in quantum of gross salary and net salary. 90. It is the case of prosecution that, the salary

certificates were fake. But this P.W.11 says that, he found

discrepancies in the salary certificates. He says that, he

went to the Railway Office and met one Nagabhushan,

Personal Officer. On enquiry he denied for having issued

the salary certificates to the employees who have sought

loan from Gandhi Nagar branch of their bank. So also went

to the office of Water Board and enquired about the

genuineness and authenticity of salary certificates. The

said Water Board authority also denied for having issued

salary certificates towards availment of housing loan to its

employees. 91. According to the evidence of P.W.11, there was

direction by Zonal Office to conduct Joint Inspection of the

site along with one Subramanya from Zonal Office and Mr.

Muralidhar, the then Branch Manager of Gandhi Nagar

branch. They were accompanied with one Ramegowda, the

approved valuer. Accordingly, they conducted joint 78 Spl.CC No.171/2009 inspection of the Bidadi project promoted by Seven Hills

Properties Private Limited and Singapura Project

developed by Thrishul Enterprises. They submitted report

that how the loan so sanctioned was in excess of the

discretionary limit to be exercised by accused No.1. He

says about the valuation so taken by accused No.1 and

according to him, this site measuring 30x40 feet including

the development work that has been completed as per the

valuation report was Rs.185 per square feet which worths

out of Rs.2,22,000/-. But the bank Manager has taken the

present value at Rs.775 per square feet and it is worth

more than Rs.9,30,000/- He identifies these documents at

Ex.P.148 with other documents marked at Ex.P.265 to

P.272. These documents also contains control returns etc. 92. In the cross-examination, it is elicited that, when

he was working in the controlling office, he used to receive

the returns from all the branches coming under controlling

office. One Ramanath was in the controlling office prior to

his posting there. He says that, without seeing the returns,

he cannot say how many reports he has received from 79 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Gandhi Nagar during his period in the office of controlling

office. He submitted report as per Ex.P.272. But admits that

Ex.P.272 is silent with regard to receipt of total number of

written reports not acknowledged. Ex.P.148 shows that

there is an advise to Gandhi Nagar branch to verify salary

certificates and other credentials and to inform the same to

their office. He is confronted with Ex.P.272. But says that,

he has not sent any letters to the employers to provide

information with regard to the credentials and genuineness

of the salary certificates of the borrowers from the

aforesaid Gandhi Nagar branch. So this evidence of P.W.11

goes against his own examination-in-chief. He was

transferred in the month of August 2006. He is not aware

of the returns so submiited. Thus the evidence of this

P.W.11 also in view of his admissions in the cross-

examination may not help the case of the prosecution. 93. P.W.12 Smt. R. Devika and P.W.13 Smt. Leela V.

Prasad have came before the court to speak that at the

relevant time, they were working in SPB branch as

officials. P.W.12 Smt. R. Devika was a Cashier. According to 80 Spl.CC No.171/2009 her evidence, whenever there was discount of cheques and

bills by accused No.1, she objected and brought to the

notice of accused No.1 that he cannot exceed the limit.

Accused No.1 used to say that he will look after and after

all her work is a clerical duty. To the extent of she working

in such branch at relevant time, her evidence is to be

accepted. 94. So also, P.W.13 Smt. Leela V. Prasad has

identified Ex.P.177 to P.180 being the credit challan

register entries etc., No cross-examination is directed by

the counsel for accused persons to this P.W.12 and P.W.13.

So, to that extent of their working in the said branch, their

evidence is to be accepted. 95. P.W.14 Nagendra N., is the Manager, SBI, who

worked as a designated Field Officer under SBM, Gandhi

Nagar branch. In the capacity of Field Officer, according to

his evidence, he used to conduct spot verification, such as

verification of genuineness of salary certificate,

employment pertaining to the house loan account holder,

conduct the site verifications, know the present state of 81 Spl.CC No.171/2009 construction before the release of the loan amount and to

hand over the property documents to the borrowers after

closing the housing loan accounts. 96. He says that, P.W.7 examined in this case

instructed him to make verification of salary certificates

and employments of the borrowers who availed housing

loans being sanctioned by accused No.1. Therefore, he

visited the office of BMTC, BWSSB, KSRTC, BESCOM,

HAL, BEML, Foreman Training Institute along with copies

of documents furnished by the respective borrowers. He

verified addresses of certain private borrowers also.

Accordingly, the aforesaid authorities have issued some

letters stating that such borrowers are not employees of

the respective organization. Therefore, he submitted report

as per Ex.P.156. 97. P.W.14 has been thoroughly cross-examined by

the counsel for accused No.1. He admits that his reports

are not accompanied with the letters issued to the

departments and confirmation reply given by the

departments. The said report has been submitted to the 82 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Chief Manager, Gandhi Nagar branch and based upon that,

the said branch has addressed a letter to the AGM Region-

IV stating that, the salary certificates are yet to be

confirmed. So, we find altogether different evidence spoken

to by P.W.14 in the cross-examination. At one breath, he

says that salary certificates were fake and there was a

report being collected with some of the employees were

not issued by the said organization. But his report is silent

with regard to the reply given by the departments. Based

on his report, the Chief Manager then addressed a letter to

the AGM stating that the salary certificates are yet to be

confirmed. So we find inconsistent, discrepant evidence.

His reports Ex.P.156 and P.157 suffers from material

particulars. Therefore, the evidence of this P.W.14 also may

not help the case of prosecution. 98. P.W.15 Dathathri V., is a retired employee of the

then SBM says in his evidence that accused No.1 used to

authorize to purchase the cheques and as a computer

operator, he used to make entries in the concerned

computer system. He also says that, whenever accused 83 Spl.CC No.171/2009 No.1 used to exceed the discretionary limits, he used to

bring to the notice of accused No.1. The accused No.1 also

used to direct him to prepare the control returns. So, there

is no allegations against accused No.1 that, he has not

followed all the procedures of submitting control returns to

the superior authorities. No cross-examination is directed

to this P.W.15 by the counsel for accused persons. So, to the

extent of his examination-in-chief, his evidence is to be

accepted. 99. P.W.16 Smt. Shubhalakshmi J. Rao being retired

employee of the then SBM has come before the court to say

that, she was posted to Gandhi Nagar branch in the month

of August 2003 as a computer operator. At that time,

accused No.1 was the Chief Manager of the said branch.

He used to order for cheque purchasing and she used to

attend the work relating to cheque purchase. She further

deposes that, she can identify her handwritings and she

specifically says with regard to documents at Ex.P.178,

P.179 and P.180 and so also Ex.P.132. She says that,

sometimes, Chief Managar has exceeded limits prescribed 84 Spl.CC No.171/2009 by the Head Office. No cross-examination is directed to this

witness. Even accused No.1 has not disputed about

exceeding of discretionary limits during his tenure as a

Chief Manager of the said branch. To the extent of her

duties, so did by her during her tenure, her evidence is to

be accepted. To that extent, I believe her evidence. 100. Much is argued by the learned S.P.P. that, this

accused No.1 took help of P.W.17 Krishna Murthy, who is a

retired from employment from the then SBM. 101. This P.W.17 speaks of processing of housing loan

application of accused No.6 and 7, preparation of

documents, generating of loan application at the

instructions of accused No.1. It is deposed by him that,

after his retirement, he is working as a consultant for

banking, financial related matters. He identifies Ex.P.9 to

P.131 being documents with regard to the processing of

housing loan applications by him. Ex.P.8 is confronted to

this witness. It is the housing loan pertaining to one H.P.

Puttaswamy. According to him, the information so stated

was not furnished by the borrower. This P.W.17 is 85 Spl.CC No.171/2009 thoroughly cross-examined by the counsel for accused

persons. It is elicited in the examination-in-chief that

accused No.1 informed him that, he has taken permission

from the Regional Manager of the then SBM. Therefore, he

requested this P.W.17 to fill the said challan and debit

vouchers. So at the instance of accused No.1, he helped

accused No.1 in preparing loan documents. 102. In the cross-examination, it is elicited that, to

prepare the loan application, an officer is posted to every

branch called as Field Officer. But evidently during the

tenure of accused No.1, no Field Officer was posted. At one

breath, the prosecution says that, this accused No.1 is an

aggressive banker and has reached the target and even has

shown the business more than the target being fixed by the

Head Office. So, it is quite natural to expect from such

manager seeking assitance to improve the business of the

bank. P.W.17 has prepared the documents based upon

information furnished and also documents so furnished

before him. It is elicited that, after 2010, a policy is 86 Spl.CC No.171/2009 adopted by SBM to take the services of retired employees

for this purpose. 103. It is argued by the counsel for accused persons

that, such policy was adopted by SBM to take services of

retired employees for the purpose of preparation of

documents etc., perhaps, this system would have been

adopted by accused No.1 long back to improve the

business of the bank. This possibility cannot be ruled out. 104. It is elicited in the cross-examination that, this

P.W.17 has not stated before CBI Officers that, the

developers negotiated his fees and it was increased from

400 to 500 rupees. Ex.P.8 to P.131 stated supra have been

collected by him from Gandhi Nagar branch. Thus, this

P.W.17 has assisted accused No.1 in preparing loan

documents. To that extent, the evidence of this witness is

to be accepted. 105. P.W.18 P. Shankar Rao states in his evidence

about visiting of Kallugopanahalli on 29.12.2018 and on the

same day itself he visited Banandur Village in Bidadi Taluk 87 Spl.CC No.171/2009 to inspect the properties owned by the developers. He says

in his examination-in-chief that, he did not find any

constructions whatsoever has taken place on any site in the

entire project. But in the cross-examination he says that, he

saw creation of sites there. He identifies Ex.P.159 to P.161.

According to him, during investigation, he has furnished

documents to the CBI Officers. He identifies Ex.P.278 and

P.292 respectively with regard to the production of

documents before the CBI Officials. 106. If the cross-examination of P.W.18 is perused, he

says that, he was not aware about the mentioning of

measurement done by the officials in the aforesaid

mahazars. He do not remember on which date Ex.P.273 and

P.274 were handed over to the bank. He further deposes

that without seeing the documents, he cannot say that 43

loans were closed by the borrowers by selling the property

to the third party. Most of the loan transactions were

closed by the borrowers or by the developers or

subsequent purchasers of the sites. In his statement, he

has stated that 43 accounts have been closed by the 88 Spl.CC No.171/2009 respective borrowers by handing the properties to 3 rd

parties. He also admits that, two borrowers have closed the

loan account by paying cash or cheque. Thus repayment of

loan have been spoken to by the P.W.18. He has no personal

knowledge about facts of the case. So, therefore, this

evidence of P.W.18 also may not conclusively help the case

of the prosecution. 107. It is the case of the prosecution that, the salary

certificates so produced by the borrowers were found to be

fake. Therefore, during the course of investigation, the I.O.

has recorded statement of concerned officers of the private

public. Amongst them P.W.19 Shashank Kumar Tripati is an

Accounts Officer at HAL and he worked in the said capacity

till 2010. He says that, the employees of the HAL by name

S. Suresh, V.S. Shivaprakash and M.V. Vastrad were the

borrowers and he identifies Ex.P.87, the housing loan file

belongs to V. S. Shivaprakash. So also of others marked at

Ex.P.87, P.81, P.85 etc., and also identifies Ex.P.293. These

Ex.P.293(a), (b), (c) and (d) are the genuine pay slips

according to the evidence of this witness. But in the cross- 89 Spl.CC No.171/2009 examination he says that, before providing pay slips of the

aforesaid employees, he has not verified with aforesaid

employees about their pay slips, shown by the I.O. to him.

That means, without verifying the records, this P.W.19 has

issued pay slips to the I.O. Thus, evidence of this P.W.19 is

not helpful to the case of prosecution, so as to prove that

the salary certificates, produced by the aforesaid

employees of HAL are not genuine. The evidence of P.W.19

suffers from material particulars. 108. P.W.20 B.V. Bhaskara, the another officer of HAL.

He has come before the court to speak about issuance of

pay slips in respect of 15 employees. He identifies Ex.P.294

i.e. letter addressed to the CBI from HAL. He identifies his

signature. Along with the letter, he has furnished pay

particulars as noted in Ex.P.295. According to his evidence,

the pay slips so found in the documents are issued by HAL.

He identified certain documents at Ex.P.75 to P.96. But in

his cross-examination, he says "I have not furnished the

pay roles of the employees stated supra to the I.O". So the

relevant document to speak about the actual pay being 90 Spl.CC No.171/2009 drawn by the employees, who borrowed loan from the bank

is not produced by this witness to the I.O. It was the

bounden duty of the I.O. to collect pay role, which would

have thrown light in the case of prosecution. No doubt, this

P.W.20 says that he found fake salary particulars furnished

by the employees. But to ascertain the authenticity of the

genuineness of the said pay slips, original pay roll is

important document. But those documents are not

produced before the I.O. It is fatal to the case of

prosecution. 109. It is deposed by this P.W.20 in the cross-

examination that, whatever the salary particulars being

furnished by him to the I.O. are all typed documents. He

further says that, it is only the Accounts Department head

i.e. Finance Manager or pay roll in charge is authorized to

issue salary particulars. Why the I.O. took the documents

from this P.W.20 though the Finance Manager or pay roll

incharge were authorized to issue issue salary particulars

is not explained by the prosecution. This P.W.20 has further

deposed that it is the H.R. Head who has to answer that 91 Spl.CC No.171/2009 whether Production Manager is empowered to put his

signature to the salary particulars of HAL employees. That

means P.W.20 is not authorized person to furnish any pay

particulars of HAL employees. Even he speaks of gross

salary of employee by name R. Shyam Sundar during

January 2005. The ledger extract are still with HAL.

Further admits that, the form which is found in the files

maintained by the bank in respect of various employees

with regard to the salary particulars of employee of HAL is

the form being maintained by HAL. That means whatever

forms furnished by the employees to the bank to get the

loan and the particulars furnished by the employer are one

and the same. He says that, salary printed form is

maintained by the Stores Department. But in his

examination-in-chief we find altogether a contradictory

evidence spoken to by this witness. Therefore, the evidence

of this P.W.20 suffers from material particulars and we find

contradictions, omissions and discrepancies in the evidence

of this P.W.20. These factors are not properly explained by

the prosecution. 110. P.W.21 M.T. Hariharan, having worked in HAL

says that, about his role as incharge of pay bills, salary

slips etc. he says that one R. Mahesh, Ramesh and Mudasir

Pasha were the employees of HAL. He identifies the

document at Ex.P.296. According to him, this Ex.P.296 is

prepared based upon the pay particulars maintained by

their office. He identified Ex.P.83 and P.84. He says

whenever they issue salary slips, they are based upon the

records being maintained by their office and they are

certified and attested by the accounts officer or finance

officer. He admits in the cross-examination that, the form

as said in Ex.P.83(a) and P.84(a) pertains to HAL. So he

agrees that the form being printed by the HAL with regard

to the issuance of pay particulars of his employees. So, the

evidence of P.W.21 is to be accepted to the extent of

issuance of pay particulars as sought by the I.O. 111. P.W.22 Manoranjan Dash being the Manager of

Finance in HAL has deposed that he worked at Air Craft

Division in HAL. As per the letter addressed by the I.O., he

has furnished salary certificates of one Kondaiah and K. 93 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Sathish. Ex.P.95(a) and P.99(a) are produced and according

to him, they are not genuine pay slips. But in the cross-

examination, he admits that employees by name Indranil

Sinha, Amiya Kumar Dashand, Sunil Kumar are the

employees of HAL and admits that those salary certificates

Ex.P.95(a) and P.99(a) appears to have been issued by HAL.

That means P.W.22 is not definite about the contents of

Ex.P.95(a). Therefore, the evidence of P.W.22 is not helpful

to the case of prosecution. 112. P.W.23 D. Gangaguddaiah is a retired person

from BWSSB and promoted as Account Superintendent.

During the year 2009 he was working as Accounts Officer,

Revenue. According to his evidence, his officer addressed a

letter to I.O. as per Ex.P.298. He has issued the salary

certificate of Smt. Swarnamba for the month of August

2004 which is marked at Ex.P.114. According to him,

Ex.P.114(a) is not genuine salary certificate issued from his

office. But in the cross-examination he admits that BWSSB

have got some sections which maintained attendance

register of its employees. One B.M. Narasinga Rao was the 94 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Accounts Officer, Revenue in the year 2004. He enquired

the said Narasinga Rao about issuance of salary certificate

as per Ex.P.114(a). That means this P.W.23 is not the author

of salary certificate of the concerned person. He enquired

said Narasinga Rao and thereafter he issued letter to the

I.O. That means about the authenticity of the said salary

certificate, it is B.M. Narasinga Rao is the competent

person. But that person is not arrayed as witness in this

case. Therefore, the evidence of P.W.23 is not helpful to the

case of prosecution. To prove that Ex.P.114(a) is the fake

salary certificate, no acceptable evidence is adduced by the

prosecution. 113. P.W.24 N. Ashwatha Narayanappa was an

employee of HMT, Bengaluru. He says about authority of

Administrative Officer and DDO to issue salary certificate

and Form No.16. He says in his evidence that, during 2008

in the capacity of DDO, he used to issue salary certificate

and Form No.16 to the employees of Foreman Training

Institute. During 2005 one K.C. Sharma was the 95 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Administrative Officer and DDO. According to his evidence,

during investigation in this case, the I.O. has shown him

salary certificates, payment slips. He was confronted with a

loan file pertains to one N. Ravi, the Head Clerk marked at

Ex.P.11. According to him, Ex.P.11(a) to P.11(e) so marked

in the said file are forged documents. So also, he was

confronted with Ex.P.12 to P.18. According to him, these

Ex.P.12(a)(b), 13(a)(b), 14(a)(b), 15(a)(b),16(a)(b), 17(a)(b)

are the forged documents. In the cross-examination, he

admits that, during 2005 one K.C. Sharma being the

Administrative Officer and DDO was authorized to issue

salary certificates and Form No.16. He admits that,

personally he has not handed over any of the documents to

the I.O. He has not enquired said K.C. Sharma regarding

the genuineness of the aforesaid documents. On reading

the evidence of P.W.24, it goes against the examination-in-

chief spoken to by this witness. To ascertain the

genuineness or falsity of the said documents, it was the

duty of P.W.24 to ascertain the same with the concerned

authorized person, but he has not done so. Therefore, the 96 Spl.CC No.171/2009 evidence of P.W.24 may not help the case of the

prosecution. 114. P.W.25 K. Krishnam Raju, retired employee of

Raman Reasearch Institute has come before the court and

deposed that one Smt. D.P. Padmavathy was working as

helper in the said institute. According to him, there was no

person by name G.M. Narayanappa working in his institute

during the year 2005-2006. Further, he says that, the pay

slip Ex.P.10 is false document. He is confronted with

Ex.P.299, also a letter and pay slip which are marked at

Ex.P.300 and P.301. In the cross-examination he deposed

that, the said Padmavathy has not given any request letter

to supply her pay slip to him. Till date, the said Padmavathy

is working in the said institute itself. He says that, after

seeing the documents at Ex.P.299 to 301, he personally

have not enquired the said Smt. Padmavathy. Ex.P.21 is

confronted to him. He deposed ignorance that, whether the

signatures, so contained at Ex.P.21(b) belongs to the said

Padmavathy or not. 115. It is argued that, this P.W.25 is not an authorized

officer to issue salary certificate, but Accounts Officer who

is authorized. To support this submission, counsel for

accused No.1 places reliance on the admission of P.W.25

elicited in the cross-examination, wherein it is stated that

in the Raman Research Institute there is a officer called

Accounts Officer. This officer has not furnished any other

documents to the I.O. such as salary register, pay rolls etc.

What made the I.O. to record the statement of P.W.25 under Sec.161 of Cr.P.C. is not made clear by the prosectuion.

P.W.25 is not competent person to issue salary particulars.

Therefore, the evidence of this P.W.25 may not help the

case of prosecution. 116. PW.26 S. Sami Pillai has come before the court

to speak about running of Partnership Firm called as Indian

Computer Corporation. He do not know the person by

name Girish V.V. and he never worked in his office. Ex.P.108

is marked in this case being house loan application

submitted to the aforesaid bank. The file contains the

salary particulars marked at Ex.P.108(a), (b) and (c). Letter 98 Spl.CC No.171/2009 is addressed as per Ex.P.108(b). He says that, the pay slip

so marked in this case at Ex.P.108(a) to (c) do not bear

their office address. He says that, he has not furnished any

list of employees working in his firm to the I.O. The

Investigating Officer has not collected any of the specimen

pay slip or letter head maintained by their firm. That

means without getting the list of employers of the firm and

salary particulars, this P.W26 has come before the court to

depose on behalf of prosecution. His cross-examination so

directed, reveal that, he is quite ignorant about so many

facts and has not furnished the relevant documents.

Therefore, the evidence of P.W.26 becomes inconsequential

to the case of prosecution. 117. P.W.27 R. Suresh has come before the court to

speak that, he is responsible for payment of salary

recoveries and the I.O. had investigated about issuance of

pay slips to the employees of KSRTC. He says about salary

slip of one Abdul Waiz as per Ex.P.103(a) so also P.104(a),

105(a) and 106(a). According to him, they are all fake and

forged documents. He says, on comparison of the original 99 Spl.CC No.171/2009 salary slips marked at Ex.P.303 to P.306 and the pay slips

so collected by the I.O. from the bank marked at

Ex.P.103(a) to 106(a) are forged documents. 118. In the cross-examination, this P.W.27 says that,

at the relevant time, one Rame Gowda was the Accounts

Officer in their Central Division, KSRTC, Bengaluru. He

was authorized person to issue salary slips, but why the

I.O. has recorded the statement of this P.W.27 during

investigation is not made clear. This P.W.27 is not the

authorized person or the official of the KSRTC. Even he

admits that, in the year 2004, he has not dealt with the

affairs with regard to the issuance of the salary slips of the

aforesaid employees of KSRTC. The salary certificates so

marked in the case at Ex.P.303 to 306 have been signed by

the said Abdul Waiz, the Accounts Officer. But he is not

examined in this case. So, therefore, the evidence of P.W.27

also may not help the case of prosecution to prove about

the forgery of the documents in the manner alleged by the

prosecution. 119. P.W.28 Kodandarama having worked as General

Manager in VST Tillers Tractors Limited says that the

salary slip belongs to one Smt. C.M. Chamundi marked at

Ex.P.125(a) was not issued by their company. He identified

Ex.P.307. But admits in the cross-examination that, the pay

slip form so mentioned in Ex.P.125(a) pertains to their

company. He further deposed that, he do not remember

that, whether he furnished pay rolls prepared by their

office to the I.O. He admits that, Ex.P.307 does not contain

his signature. Thus, the vital witness of the company is not

examined by the prosecution. It is fatal to the case of

prosecution. 120. P.W.29 Smt. S. Komalavalli has come before the

court to depose about the capacity of Junior Accounts

Officer, who is authorized to issue salary certificate of

employees of BSNL, BGTD. She identified Ex.P.116(a) to (d)

and according to her, these Ex.P.116(a) to (d) not at all

issued from her office. But in the cross-examination, she

admits that, during the year 2004, the Accounts Officer of

BSNL was authorized to issue salary slips, she was not 101 Spl.CC No.171/2009 authorized to issue salary slips. She admits that, pay slip

formats mentioned in Ex.P.121(c) and 116(a) belongs to

BSNL. She further admits that, except handing over the

documents, she has not done anything in this case. This

evidence spoken to by this P.W.29 goes against her

examination-in-chief. 121. P.W.30 Dr. R.L. Usharani, being Assistant

Surgeon, BBMP Office has come before the court to say

that no salary certificates standing in the name of R.

Vijayakumari is issued from her office. She says Ex.P.73(a)

is a false document. But in the cross-examination, she says

that, she has not furnished copies of the registers and

other documents to CBI official during the investigation.

She admits that, the stamp seal contained in Ex.P.73(a) to (e) may be belongs to her office, but she is not the

signatory to the said documents. She has furnished her

specimen signature to the I.O. When material documents

are not furnished to the I.O. and when the said Ex.P.73(a)

to (e) bears stamp and seal of her office, now she cannot 102 Spl.CC No.171/2009 say that Ex.P.73(a) is false document. Thus the evidence of

P.W.30 is quite otherwise than her examination-in-chief. 122. P.W.31 A. Kannigammal identifies Ex.P.1(a), (b)

as false documents. He is a retired employee of Central

Government. One Mahesh was an employee working as

technical assistant in his organization. He says Ex.P.1(a),(b)

are not genuine documents. But in the cross-examination,

he says that, the salary certificate format so marked in this

case in the file maintained by the bank is a format

maintained by the office. This evidence goes against the

examination-in-chief of the this witness. When format of the

salary certificate is similar to the document being produced

before the bank, it cannot be stated that, such salary

certificate is false document. 123. P.W.32 M. Narayana being an employee of BEL

says that Ex.P.120(a),(b) salary particulars have not been

issued by the office belongs to one B.S. Nagaraj. Further,

he says that the letter is issued as per Ex.P.315. Actual pay

slips are Ex.P.316 and Ex.P.17. But says that Ex.P.315 is not

signed by him. He do not know who has issued Ex.P.315. 103 Spl.CC No.171/2009 He admits that for the first time he is seeing Ex.P.315 to

P.317 before this court. He do not know whether the

aforesaid B.S. Nagaraj was working in at relevant time. So,

the evidence of P.W.32 in cross-examination is quite against

the examination-in-chief. Therefore, such evidence cannot

be accepted. 124. Ex.P.33 Anirudh Mehta is the Proprietor, Umiya

Builders and Developers. He has come before the court to

say that, one Mr. R.K. Manohar was working as Senior

Manager Accounts in his company. He is confronted with

the document marked at Ex.P.118. The salary slips alleged

to have been issued from his office, according to him he

has not issued. In the cross-examination, it is elicited that,

he does not know the exact date of appointment of R.K.

Manohar. He worked for one year in their company. He

used to pay the salary to him by way of cheque. He says

that, CBI has not asked to furnish bank details. Therefore,

he has not furnished. He never denies of salary particulars

of R.K. Manohar. Therefore, the evidence of P.W.33 may not

help the case of prosecution. 125. P.W.34 B. Sujatha has come before the court

being Assistant General manager of BESCOM and she says

that, the salary slips Ex.P.113(a) and (b) so produced in this

case are not genuine salary slips issued in the name of one

Lineman, Rajashekara and Office attender Geetha.

According to her, the said salary certificate furnished by

one Rathnamma to the bank to file loan are false. She has

also identified Ex.P.72(a) and says that the salary certificate

is not issued from here office. But in the cross-examination,

she says that in her KPTCL, the Accounts Officer is

authorized to issue salary certificate. In the year 2004, one

Narayana Reddy was the Accounts Officer. Further she

says that, the form so shown to her with regard to salary

certificate Ex.P.72(a) belongs to her office. Thus, the form

so found in Ex.P.72 is not denied by her. She has not

produced pay roll of Rathnamma along with Ex.P.319 and

P.320. Further she says the names of B.M. Geetha and

Rajashekar is not available in the pay roll. In view of her

admissions given in the cross-examination, it can be stated

that, she is not an authorized officer to depose before the 105 Spl.CC No.171/2009 court to say about the salary particulars collected by the

I.O. So, therefore, the evidence of P.W.34 can be believed to

the extent of producing Ex.P.319 only. So far as other

aspects are concerned, her evidence cannot be accepted. 126. P.W.35 Smt. Malini Nagaraj having worked as

Junior Accounts Officer in Telecoms, Bengaluru Trunk

Exchange, has come before the court to depose that Smt.

Janaki Srinivasan was working as Senior Telecom

Supervisor in their office. She says that the salary

certificate is not issued from her office. She was confronted

with the said document. She also says that, there is

difference in salary particulars mentioned in Ex.P.9(b) with

that of the salary particulars maintained in the office of the

said Smt. Janaki Srinivasan. Certain documents are marked

at Ex.P.321, P.21(a), P.322, P.323, and P.324 being salary

particulars. 127. But in the cross-examination, she says that, for

the first time, she is seeing the documents marked at

Ex.P.321 to P.324. She further admits that, she personally

has not verified salary certificates of the said employee. 106 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Further she admits that, the said Ex.P.9(b) may be the

salary particulars form maintained by her stationery

department. The Accounts Officer was the authorized

official to issue salary certificate. She does not know that

whether Ex.P.(b) was issued from her office or not. Thus,

she has given a clear go bye to her chief-examination. First

of all she is not authorized official to issue salary slips.

Accounts Officer was the competent person to speak about

the authenticity and genuineness of the document. It is

fatal to the case of prosecution. In view of the admissions

of this witness, her evidence cannot be accepted. 128. P.W.36 Syed Khasim is the retired official of the

office of DG and IGP. Bengaluru. According to him, he was

the Assistant Administrative Officer in his department and

he says that, Ex.P.326 is a forged document. He also

identifies letter annexed to the said document. He

identifies Ex.P.25 as the document issued from their office.

In the cross-examination he says that, he has not

personally seen Ex.P.325 letter. Further deposes that the

Superintendent of Police is the authorized official to issue 107 Spl.CC No.171/2009 salary certificate. He has not produced any documents to

show that, who is competent official to issue salary

certificate. Though, he identifies Ex.P.326, but he is not

authorized person to issue salary certificate. So, he being

Administrative Officer has come before the court and

wanted to depose that Ex.P.326 as false document. But in

view of his say in the cross-examination, his evidence

cannot be accepted as truthful evidence. 129. P.W.37 H.V. Nanjundaswamy is the retired

official of KSRTC. According to him, Ex.P.29(a),(b) and (c)

and Form No.16 so produced in the case are not genuine

documents. The said documents are confronted to him. But

in the cross-examination, he too says that, the Accounts

Officer of KSRTC was the paying drawing officer for Smt.

Jayasheela. He admits that, stationery being used to

prepare Ex.P.20(a),(b) and (c) belongs to the stationery

department of KSRTC. Ex.P.330 letter is not signed by him.

Whether this P.W.37 is really authorized to give evidence in

this case is not properly explained by the prosecution.

Therefore, the evidence of this P.W.37 will not help the case 108 Spl.CC No.171/2009 of prosecution in any manner to prove that these salary

certificates are really false documents. Therefore, the

evidence of P.W.37 cannot be accepted as truthful evidence. 130. P.W.38 K. Vijaya, P.W.39 P. Jayaramulu, P.W.40

Smt. D. Kamalamurthy and P.W.41 S.M. Basavachar are the

alleged borrowers and they say that they never availed any

housing loan from the aforesaid bank. But in their

respective cross-examinations they say that, one Babu had

come to their house to speak regarding sites and he has

not told that Venkatesh has come to them. P.W.38 says that

when she came to Gandhi Nagar office, her husband had

not accompanied her. According to her, she has not

received any amount. So also P.W.39 says that, she has

signed all the documents at the Seven Hills Property office

at Gandhi Nagar, but has not availed loan of Rs.11,00,000/-.

She is confronted with the documents. In the cross-

examination, she says that the persons, who told her to

provide free sites belonged to the Government. She is a

tailor by profession. Herself and C.W.44 Basavachar went

to the office at Gandhi Nagar. Thereafter visited the office 109 Spl.CC No.171/2009 of Sub-Registrar. One Nagaraja and Babu were there and

they executed the documents. She furnished the

documents to Babu. After furnishing the documents, she

directly went to the office of Sub-Registrar, Ramanagar. So,

at one breath, these witnesses say that, they have not

availed any loan, but they went to the office of Sub-

Registrar and the sale deed were executed in respect of the

sites in their favour. 131. P.W.40 also speaks in similar terms and he says

that he put his signature to the aforesaid documents. But

further says that C.W.44 had accompanied her. One

Nagaraj, Babu and Basha told her to come to office and put

her signature. So this execution of documents as well as

registration of sale deeds have been admitted by this

P.W.40 also. 132. P.W.41 S.M. Basavachar is one of the borrower.

According to him, he never worked as a Senior Chief

Transport Officer at Foreman Training Institute,

Yeshwanthapura. He never availed any housing loan of

Rs.9,00,000/- from SBM, Gandhi Nagar Branch, Bengaluru. 110 Spl.CC No.171/2009 But in the cross-examination he says that, he was told to

pay the amount towards the purchase of site. One Babu

told that the company will provide free site to him. One

Khasim came to him thereafter asked him to sign GPA.

After registration of the site, he has not paid any amount.

He has told that after construction of the house, he will be

asked to pay loan amount. Further, in the cross-

examination it is elicited that, certain documents were

given by himself and others i.e. Jayaramulu, Jaya and

Kamalamma. He has stated before the I.O. that during the

course of recording his statement, Khasim and others

visited his house and asked him to sign the GPA in the

name of M/s Global Infrastructure (India Private Limited)

represented by K.R. Venkatesha Reddy. When she refused

to sign the GPA, they threatened. For the first time P.W.41

speaks of such evidence in the cross-examination. In view

of the admissions given by these witnesses in the cross-

examination, it can be very well stated that, though they

got the sale deeds executed in respect of respective sites,

but say that, they never availed any loan. When there is 111 Spl.CC No.171/2009 agreement between the bank, developer and the borrower,

there would be tripartite agreement and bank directly

release loan amount in favour of the developers. It has

come in the evidence of P.W.42 that, he was assured to

provide constructed house and thereafter he has to pay

installments. That means because of this agreement,

amount would not have been released in favour of

borrowers and directly would have been released in favour

of developer. This possibility cannot be ruled out.

Therefore, this evidence of P.W.38 to P.W.41 may not help

the case of prosecution in any manner, so as to come to

conclusion that, there was no availment of loan by these

persons. 133. PW.42 Smt. D.B. Padmavathy, P.W.43 Prakash

Pattar, P.W.44 G.S.Vijaya Vittala and P.W.8 B.M. Geetha have

come before the court to say that, they have availed

housing loan of Rs.10,00,000/- each from the said bank and

identified the documents furnished by them respectively.

They identified the documents so confronted in their

respective examination-in-chief. 134. In the cross-examination, this P.W.42 says that

she furnished the documents to the bank at the time of

availing loan. But says that, salary slip Ex.P.21(b) and (c) do

not hear her signature. In the further cross-examination,

she admits that, whatever the documents shown to her by

Jeevan Anand and Mohammed Amanulla, she put the

signature. She stated before CBI Officer that said Amanulla

has wrongly mentioned her qualification, designation and

net salary. So far as availment of loan from the aforesaid

bank by these P.W.42, 43, 44 and 48 is concerned they

never denied. They have furnished the documents. 135. PW.43 says that, he has not cleared the housing

loan amount. He admits that, one Gururaj asked him to

furnish all the relevant documents to N.V. Thirumala Reddy,

being the bank employee of Engine Division, HAL. After

few days, the said Thirumala Reddy asked him to visit the

office of Trishul Enterprises. Before the I.O. he has stated

that said Thirumala Reddy has prepared forged salary slip

inflating his salary for the purpose of getting higher

housing loan amount. But the said Thirumala Reddy is not 113 Spl.CC No.171/2009 the witness in this case, so also Amanulla. It is conclusively

proved from his evidence, that he has availed loan from the

said bank 136. P.W.44 G.S. Vijaya Vittala also speaks in similar

terms stating that one Thirumala Reddy approached him to

get the site through Trishul Enterprises. He told about

availability of site at Singapura Layout. He further admits

that, he has stated before the I.O. that, the said Thirumala

Reddy has forged the documents. One thing is clear from

the evidence of this witness, that he has availed loan from

the aforesaid bank. 137. P.W.48 B.M. Geetha also speaks in similar terms

and she has availed loan. Documents are furnished. So

availment of loan is admitted by this witness also. 138. On reading the evidence of all these witnesses

stated supra, viz, P.W.42, 43, 44 and 48, one thing is clear

that they availed loan from Gandhi Nagar Branch of SBM

Therefore, the evidence of these witnesses will not help the

case of prosecution. 139. Likewise, we find the evidence of P.W.45 L.

Ramesh Kumar, P.W.46 M. Chamundi, P.W.47 Rajashekar,

P.W.49 Smt. S. Mary Stevens, P.W.50 Mudasir Pasha, P.W.51

Ramesh, P.W.53 R. Magesh, P.W.55 John Rose, P.W.56 R.K.

Manohar, PW.59 N.V. Thirumala Reddy, P.W.70 Jayaraj,

P.W.71 Jagabandhu Gowda and P.W.120 B.R. Somashekara.

These witnesses say about the availability of the site in the

layout formed by Trishul Enterprises and also have spoken

with regard to purchase of sites. 140. This P.W.45 says that one Thirumala Reddy an

employee of HAL contacted him and told about availability

of the site through Trishul Enterprises. It is told that first

there shall be registration of the site and thereafter the

said M/s Trishul Enterprises shall give Rs.50,000/- to him.

In the cross-examination, this P.W.45 says that about

fetching best price in the market to the said sites. So one

thing is clear from the evidence of this witness that, they

approached M/s Trishul Enterprises and Seven Hills

Properties Private Limited and they wanted to purchase

sites. They availed a loan to that effect. Even it has come in 115 Spl.CC No.171/2009 the evidence of P.W.45 that, one Tirumala Reddy has forged

the documents. But the said Tirumala Reddy is either

witness nor an accused in this case. 141. It has come in the evidence of P.W.46 M.

Chamundi that she knows Mohammed Amanulla, Nagaraj

and Venkatesh Reddy of M/s Trishul Enterprises. It is told

to her by Amanulla that, site is being sold by Trishul

Enterprises. Therefore, she went to the office of M/s

Trishul Enterprises. She has received a cheque for

Rs.11,500/-. She has been declared as hostile witness and

cross-examined. But she denied the suggestion directed to

her by the prosecution that, she has stated before the I.O.

as stated in Ex.P.335, 335(a) and (b). Therefore, the

evidence of P.W.46 may not help the case of prosecution in

any manner. 142. It is elicited in the cross-examination that, she

came to know about availability of site from Mohammed

Amanulla and Nagaraj of M/s Trishul Enterprises. One

Krishnamurthy paid the loan amount raised by her and

purchased the site. She sold the site of Rs.9,00,000/- and 116 Spl.CC No.171/2009 paid the loan amount of Rs.7,25,000/- to the bank. So when

there is purchase of site by P.W.46 and resold the same, it is

deemed that purchase of site has been admitted. Re-sale of

site also admitted. Therefore, the evidence of P.W.46 will

not help the case of prosecution. 143. It has come in the evidence of P.W.47 Rajashekar

that, he furnished all the documents to M/s Trishul

Enterprises and he wanted to purchase site in the joint

name of his wife and himself. He has furnished document

at Ex.P.113. He identified the said document. In the cross-

examination, this P.W.47 admits that, towards availment of

the loan amount to purchase the site, both Rathnamma and

and Girish acted as agents to him. He handed all the

relevant documents to Smt. Rathnamma and in turn she

gave them to Girish. This P.W.47 was not aware that for

what reason the said Rathnamma and Girish gave him

Rs.25,000/-. The said site is presently standing in the name

of himself and his wife and they are in possession of the

same by putting up construction. Thus, the evidence of

P.W.47 is quite against the case of the prosecution. They 117 Spl.CC No.171/2009 have purchased a site. Constructed house and residing

there. Therefore, the evidence of P.W.47 also do not prove

the allegations made by the prosecution against the

accused persons. 144. P.W.48 B.M. Geetha is the wife of this P.W.47.

She also speaks on par with the evidence of P.W.47.

Therefore, her evidence cannot be accepted to come to the

conclusion that, the prosecution is able to establish the

guilt against the accused. 145. PW.49 Smt. S. Mary Stevens also speaks that,

she came in contact with one Dominic, being an employee

of M/s Trishul Enterprises, who has promised her to

provide site through M/s Trishul Enterprises. She was

taken to the office of M/s Trishul Enterprises and shown a

site plan and site to be given to her and got filled certain

documents. Purchase of site by this P.W.49 is admitted.

According to her evidence, Dominic took her to the office of

M/s Trishul Enterprises to speak about availability of the

sites. She has furnished documents. She has been

intensively cross-examined by the counsel for accused 118 Spl.CC No.171/2009 persons. Her admission go to establish that in the

transactions between M/s Trishul Enterprises and this

P.W.49, the said Dominic played an active role. So,

therefore, the evidence of P.W.49 may not help the case of

prosecution. 146. P.W.50 Mudasir Pasha, employee of HAL speaks

that one Amanulla contacted him to visit Trishul

Enterprises to purchase site. Accordingly, he went to the

office of Trishul Enterprises. He gave Rs.87,000/- to one

Nagaraj, Clerk who is working in the office of Trishul

Enterprises. He put his signature to the documents. In the

cross-examination, he says that, key of the constructed

house was handed over to him after paying Rs.80,000/- to

him by the Trishul Enterprises and during the year 2008 he

sold the house. He admits that the said Nagaraj gave a slip

stating that, Trishul Enterprises have paid interest and he

has to repay the same. Further admits that M/s Trishul

Enterprises told him that until the completion of

construction, no EMI he has to be paid. It is told that, after

completion of construction, possession would be handed 119 Spl.CC No.171/2009 over and thereafter, EMI has to be paid. He admits that

Ex.P.18 salary slip was handed over by him. Thus, the

evidence of P.W.50 shows that, he purchased site in which

house was constructed by M/s Trishul Enterprises and

handed over the key after paying Rs.80,000/-. That means,

there was availment of loan by him, and he was asked to

repay the loan only after possession of the constructed

house. If this evidence of P.W.50 is taken into consideration,

it can be very well stated that, the prosecution through the

evidence of P.W.50 cannot prove the allegations made in the

charge sheet against accused persons. Therefore, the

evidence of P.W.50 cannot be accepted as truthful evidence

in favour of the prosecution. 147. P.W.51 Ramesh also speaks that, he came in

contact with one Dominic of M/s Trishul Enterprises and it

is told to him that, the said M/s Trishul Enterprises have

put up the construction of the house and hand over the

possession. He has furnished documents to raise loan from

the aforesaid bank. He has put his signature to the

documents. He says that, he has told before CBI Officials 120 Spl.CC No.171/2009 that the Dominic has forged the documents. He has paid 4

EMI's in installments of Rs.40,000/-, 50,000/-, 1,35,000/-

and 2,57,000/- to the bank after obtaining loan from his

friend Sri. Askar. After clearance of loan, bank has given

him NOC. The said site was sold to the said Bhaskar. Thus,

the admissions given by P.W.51 in the cross-examination

falsifies the very case of the prosecution with regard to the

misuse of power by this accused No.1. 148. P.W.53 R. Magesh also speaks in similar terms.

He too says that, he has sent all the documents and he has

furnished documents to the said Dominic. He also says that

before the I.O., he told that, the said Dominic has forged

the documents. But Dominic is not an accused in this case.

He has paid Rs.2,20,000/- towards installment regarding

loan. So, therefore, the evidence of P.W.53 also may not

help the case of prosecution. 149. P.W.55 John Rose also speaks in similar terms

with that of the aforesaid witness. So on scrupulous

reading of the evidence of these witnesses, discussed

above, it can be stated that, the evidence so placed on 121 Spl.CC No.171/2009 record by the prosecution and the clear admissions spoken

to by the witnesses falsifies the case of the prosecution. 150. P.W.52 Smt. K. Dayanidhi has come before the

court to speak about purchase of site from one Mary

Stevens i.e. P.W.49 and identified sale deed as per Ex.P.336.

She has been thoroughly cross-examined. This P.W.52 goes

against the case of the prosecution. She admits that she

has paid Rs.4,40,000/- towards purchase of site and other

than the amount, there was no need for her to pay other

amount. She says, initially she purchased the site and

thereafter, P.W.52 purchase the same. To that extent, the

evidence of P.W.52 is to be accepted. 151. P.W.54 R. Satish is the real estate businessman

and has come before the court to speak that he approached

M/s Trishul Enterprises to purchase sites at Singapura

Layout. He did arrangement to purchase seven houses

situated at Singapura Layout and negotiated price at the

rate of Rs.650/- per square feet. He agreed to pay

Rs.5,00,000/- to D. Sudhakar and he paid the same. That

means, even the real estate businessman also have 122 Spl.CC No.171/2009 purchased the sites so formed by M/s Trishul Enterprises.

He has sold the site in the name of Dominic from Mary

Stevens, acting as real estate businessman for a

consideration of Rs.13,00,000/-. He paid Rs.75,000/- as a

commission to the said Dominic. So, according to the

evidence of P.W.54, he acted as real estate businessman

and site being purchased by Mary Stevens was sold to

Dominic as stated supra. Therefore, the evidence of P.W.54

also may not help the case of prosecution. Likewise, the

evidence of P.W.55 and P.W.56 in view of their fair

admissions in the cross-examination. 152. P.W.57 Anbazagan has come before the court to

speak that as per the instructions of CBI Officer, he issued

Ex.P.37 being the genuine salary certificate. No cross-

examination is directed to this witness. So, to the extent of

issuing Ex.P.37, evidence of this witness is to be believed.

To that extent, I believe his evidence. 153. P.W.58 Firoz Pasha has come before the court,

being retired BMTC Driver. He says that, he has purchased

site at Hegde Nagar and he does not know about Seven 123 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Hills Properties Project at Bidadi. This witness has been

declared as hostile witness. But nothing worth is elicited

from the mouth of this witness, so as to disbelieve his

version given in examination-in-chief. He has been directed

with cross-examination by accused No.2 to 7. He says that,

one Dominic used to visit borrowers and appraise about

availability of the sites and accordingly, he purchased. He

does not know who are all the borrowers have purchased

sites. 154. P.W.70 Jayaraj having joined the services with

HAL, Finance Department as Clerk cum Typist. He says

before the court that, one Dominic used to come towards

the gate of his office. He came in contact with M/s Trishul

Enterprises through him. The said Dominic used to tell

about the sites, which are available for sale and if the site

is purchased, they shall give money. Thereafter, it was told

that Rs.50,000/- would be given and loan will be provided

towards purchase of the house. Therefore, he furnished his

identity card, salary slip, form No.16, address proof to the

said Dominic. He identified his housing lona application as 124 Spl.CC No.171/2009 per Ex.P.98. So also, other documents like loan agreement,

agreement to sell and build as per Ex.P.98(a) to (c). He

never paid any EMIs to the SBM, Gandhi Nagar Branch. 155. In this cross-examination it is elicited that, with

regard to the transaction of purchase of site, the aforesaid

Dominic only played active role. At the time of registration,

he was called to Sub-Registrar Office by Dominic and there

on behalf of the developers somebody came and put the

signatures. So execution of sale deed in respect of sites, he

admits. But denied other suggestions. Ex.D.12 is

confronted to him. According to him, he handed over the

salary slips to the said Dominic which is marked at

Ex.D.13. So, as per his evidence, he handed over all the

documents and based upon that, he got sites being

purchased by him. So, the transaction between M/s Trishul

Enterprises and others, P.W.70 have been admitted by this

P.W.70. He denied the suggestion that, he has repaid the

loan amount of Rs.7,03,234/- etc. Some portion of his

evidence is marked in this case as per Ex.D.14. One fact is 125 Spl.CC No.171/2009 clear from the evidence of P.W.70 that, he purchased site

through M/s Trishul Enterprises. 156. P.W.71 Jagabandhu Gowda has joined the services

with HAL as a Technician and according to his evidence,

one Nagaraj and Venkatesh Reddy used to come to their

office gate and used to convince employees of HAL and

informed about sale of sites at Singapura Layout by M/s

Trishul Enterprises. He also takes the name of Dominic and

according to him, he handed over all the documents to the

Dominic. He says that he has given Ex.P.82. He also

identified Ex.P.82(a) to (d). He admits about registration of

site in his name. When he asked them to give Rs.50,000/-

according to his evidence, it was asked to re-register the

site by Venkatesh and Nagaraj. He met one

Hanumanthappa Reddy. He re-sold the said site and

cleared the loan. So, the transaction between M/s Trishul

Enterprises and this P.W.71 have been admitted by this

witness. 157. In the cross-examination, he admits that, for

repayment of loan amount of SBM, Gandhi Nagar branch, 126 Spl.CC No.171/2009 he received notice from the said branch. Thereafter, he

approached the said bank and took time for repayment of

loan amount, then paid. Even it is elicited that some people

regularly used to come in front of the gate of his factory

and informed about availability of sites for sale. It may be

one Dominic who was an agent. These agents have

promised to give money after the purchase of the sites.

Thus transactions between M/s Trishul Enterprises and

P.W.71 with regard to the purchase of sites have been

admitted by this witness. But alleged that, agents have

made false promise to give money. No incriminating

evidence is spoken to by this witness against the accused

persons. According to him, Rs.5,94,902/- was being

arranged by Krishna Reddy by obtaining NOC from the

bank. He never went to the office of M/s Trishul

Enterprises demanding Rs.50,000/- He met Venkatesh

Reddy and Nagaraj only at the time of making application

for allotment of site and at the time of registration of the

site in his name. Thus the evidence of P.W.71 may not help

the case of the prosecution. 158. P.W.59 N.V. Tirumala Reddy is the retired HAL

Employee says that, based upon the paper advertisement,

he came in contact with M/s Trishul Enterprises in the

year 2003. He came to know about the availability of sites

at Singapura Layout. One Gururaj took him to Singapura

Layout and showed site. Thereafter, he was called to the

office of M/s Trishul Enterprises and it is told to him that

his take home salary is less. Therefore, no loan is

sanctioned to him. He has been declared as hostile witness

by the prosecution. So one thing is clear from the evidence

of P.W.59 that the bank insisted to furnish salary certificate

and as the salary of the P.W.59 was very less, therefore,

bank denied to grant any loan. That means, it is argued

that, while granting loan, accused No.1 has followed all

the procedures of granting loan. 159. It is elicited in the cross-examination directed by

accused No.2 to 7 that, after seeing the site at Singapura

Layout, he was satisfied with the developments of the

sites. Therefore, he requested Gururaj to provide him a

site at the said layout. So, in the layout being formed, 128 Spl.CC No.171/2009 developments of sites has taken place. Prosecution alleges

that, there was no development of sites at all. It is elicited

that, he do not have any personal knowledge about the

transaction that have taken place between Trishul

Enterprises and his friends regarding purchase of sites. It

is elicited that, after two years, he came to know from the

builders that there were forged documents furnished to

the bank while raising the loan by the agents or the

borrowers. 160. It is submitted by the counsels for accused that,

the role of agents is not examined by the I.O. and it is fatal

to the case of prosecution. 161. P.W.60 Mohammed Amanulla has come before the

court to speak with regard to the convincing by Dominic to

purchase sites by the intending purchasers in the layout

formed by M/s Trishul Enterprises. He says that, he came

in contact with late Dominic, who is an employee of M/s

Trishul Enterprises and came to know that, M/s Trishul

Enterprises and M/s Seven Hills Properties Private Limited

have formed layout. According to his evidence, he used to 129 Spl.CC No.171/2009 fill the application form of M/s Trishul Enterprises

regarding purchase of sites. He does not know the

Proprietor of M/s Trishul Enterprises. He has been

declared as hostile witness. Though cross-examination is

directed to this witness, but nothing worth is elicited from

the mouth of this witness, so as to disbelieve his version

given in the examination-in-chief. He denied that, he has

stated before the I.O. that Ex.P.340, P.340(a) so also

Ex.P.340(b) and (c). No evidentiary value can be attached

to the evidence of this witness. 162. P.W.61 by name S.N. Velayudham @ Sekhar has

come before the court and deposed about the availability

of the sites in the layout formed by M/s Trishul

Enterprises. He too have been turned hostile. Nothing

worth is elicited from the mouth of this witness. He states

that, he has not stated before the I.O. as per Ex.P.341,

hence the evidence of this witness will not help the case of

prosecution. 163. P.W.62 by name Ramachandra Shettar is the

erstwhile Manager of Kotak Mahindra bank and he speaks 130 Spl.CC No.171/2009 about receipt of bills, honouring the same by deducting

commission. He says with regard to the discounting of

bills which have been presented for the purpose of

honouring. During his tenure, he received bills which are

marked at Ex.P.194 to P.196. Other documents belongs to

M/s Seven Hills Properties etc. He also produced certified

true extract statement. He identified documents at

Ex.P.342 to P.346 and the respective documents attached

to the said exhibits. He also identified cheques at Ex.P.347

to P.358. According to his evidence, he has honored all

these bills and prepared the statement of accounts in

respect of Meerams Over Seas Private Limited in nine

sheets for the period commencing from 30.06.2005 to

31.12.2005 and 16.01.2006 to 22.04.2006 maintained by

the bank marked at Ex.P.342(g). He also says about the

document of one S.N. Takur dated 03.04.2009, wherein he

has transferred the amount by writing credit challan

dated 03.01.2006 for Rs.73,60,000/- credited to A/c

No.1522 of M/s Meerams Overseas Limited on 04.01.2006 131 Spl.CC No.171/2009 from SBM, Chellakere Branch. Thus he admits with

regard to honouring of the bills etc. 164. He has been directed with severe cross-

examination by the counsel for accused No.2 to 7. In the

cross-examination, he admits that, since from the

commencement of Meerams Overseas Private Limited i.e.

from 2004 the said company is having account with ING

Vysya, Chellakere Branch, which is now named as Kotak

Mahindra Bank. The term loan had a limit of Rs.68,00,000

and OD account was having a limits of Rs.2,00,00,000/-.

So whatever transactions did by this Meerams Overseas

Private Limited is concerned, this P.W.62 has spoken. The

evidence of P.W.62 may not help the case of prosecution to

prove that, these accused have committed offences for

personal gain in the manner alleged by the prosecution.

Even he states that, SBM used to send the cheques, bills

etc and they used to honour. Thus, to the extent of receipt

of the cheques, bills etc and honoring them the evidence

of P.W.62 is to be accepted. 165. P.W.63 T. Thimmappa being the former Manager

of SBM speaks of discounting of bills sent by SBM,

Gandhi Nagar Branch by his branch i.e. SBM, Chellakere

Branch. According to him, Ex.P.194 to P.196 have been

sent to their branch after maturity, and he identifies the

original Current Account opening form dated 06.12.1995

in the name of D. Sudhakar, who is accused No.2, which is

marked at Ex.P.359. The Transfer Debit voucher dated

05.12.2005 is also identified by this witness and other

documents have been confronted to him at Ex.P.360 to

P.377 and other documents annexed to it. This P.W.63 in

the cross-examination says that Chellakere branch has

acted as collecting agents only. So therefore, as the said

Chellakere branch of SBM acted as collecting agents, no

evidentiary value can be attached to the evidence of this

witness, so as to believe the story of prosecution as made

against the accused persons. Even he says that, request

letter forwarded for discounting bills are marked in this

case at Ex.P.194 to 196 to SBM, Gandhi Nagar was

forwarded to them which in turn they forwarded the same 133 Spl.CC No.171/2009 to ING Vysya Bank. So, no incriminating evidence is

spoken by this P.W.63 against the accused person. 166. PW.64 Afzal Ahammed Khan has come before the

court to speak about furnishing of information in respect

of seven vehicles as per Ex.P.378. He has furnished

documents as per Ex.P.378 to the I.O. No cross-

examination is directed to this witness by the defence. So,

to the extent of furnishing of Ex.P.378, the evidence of

P.W.64 is to be believed. 167. P.W.65 Sajid Sahib and the P.W.66 Prasad are the

witnesses examined by the prosecution to prove that,

these two witnesses used to arrange the customers and

used to get commission from other transporters. They

identified Ex.P.194 to P.196, so furnished by them. 168. In the cross-examination it is stated by P.W.65

that, along with goods, they used to send the lorry receipt

and whenever there is a return of hired trucks, the

signature of particular customer or driver used to be

taken. He admits that, they had engaged their trucks 134 Spl.CC No.171/2009 regularly with Meerams Overseas Private Limited. They

used to contact with the officials of Meerams Overseas

Private Limited including Bhadri Prasad. Whenever they

receive orders from others also, they used to collect the

goods from godown and make arrangement for reaching

the same to the destination. This P.W.65 identifies

Ex.P.379 and the evidence of these two witnesses can be

accepted to the extent of arrangement of vehicles to the

customers as per demand. As per the instruction of I.O.,

he has furnished Ex.P.380. He admits about collection of

charges etc. 169. P.W.66 also speaks in similar terms and

specifically says that they used to arrange vehicles to the

customers for the purpose of transportation of goods from

godown to other places. No incriminating evidence have

been spoken by these two persons against the accused

persons. 170. PW.67 M.P. Omkareshwari has come before the

court to speak that, as per the request of I.O., she

addressed a letter dated 01.04.2009 and furnished 135 Spl.CC No.171/2009 particulars regarding vehicle No.KA-23-22. She has issued

Ex.P.382 B Extract of the said vehicle. According to her

regarding vehicles bearing No.KA-20-2768, KA-20-8632

and KA-20-3768 these vehicles have been migrated to 169. P.W.66 also speaks in similar terms and specifically

says that they used to arrange vehicles to the customers

for the purpose of transportation of goods from godown to

other places. No incriminating evidence have been spoken

by this two persons against the accused persons. 171. PW.67 M.P. Omkareshwari has come befoother

RTOs. This P.W.67 is a retired RTO at Udupi and has

furnished documents at Ex.P.381 and P.382. No cross-

examination is directed to P.W.67 by the counsel for

accused persons. To the extent of furnished documents at

Ex.P.381 and P.382, the evidence of P.W.67 is to be

accepted. 172. P.W.68 A. Mahalinga Nayak says that he is

private bus driver and he has not transported any of the

goods from Chellakere to Mangalore. This witness is

cross-examined by the prosecution to prove that, this 136 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Meerams Overseas Private Limited has transported the

goods by using his Autorickshaw. But P.W.68 denies the

same. In the cross-examination directed to this witness by

the counsel for accused No.2 to 7, he says that he worked

as a driver in a private bus for a period of 30 years and he

has stopped working as private bus driver. He never gave

his auto rickshaw to any other persons to run the same. It

is the case of prosecution that, fake vehicle numbers are

furnished by the company. Therefore, for personal gain,

they have furnished all these false information. But

transportation of goods is admitted. Accused are not

denying the same. Therefore, the evidence of P.W.68 may

not help the case of prosecution in proving the case made

out against the accused persons. 173. P.W.69 Vinay Prakash Karat is the owner of

rickshaw bearing Reg.No.KA-19-6420 and wherein, he has

furnished Ex.P.196(a). As per this document, his vehicle

has been shown as Truck at Sl.No.7 but it is not a truck.

But in his cross-examination states that, the CBI has not

enquired him about transportation of goods from 137 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Chellakere in the said vehicle. No statement was given by

 him. Threfore, this evidence of P.W.69 falsifies his

 examination-in-chief. 174. P.W.72 Padmanabha Shet is the owner of rickshaw

bearing Reg.No.KA-20-322 having purchased the same in

the year 2003 from one Ravindra Shet. He has sold the

rickshaw in the year 2005 to one Raghuraj Nayak. The said

vehicle is not a lorry according to his evidence. His vehicle

did not travel to Chellakere. In the cross-examination he

says that, the said vehicle was purchased in the month of

January 2003. He cannot say in which month he sold the

said vehicle. So, there is no incriminating evidence spoken

to by this witness against the accused persons in the

manner alleged by the prosecution. 175. P.W.73 Harish Gatty is another owner of Scooter

bearing Reg.No.CNX 3250 have been purchased the same

for Rs.4,000/- and he has given statement before the I.O.

He identified B Extract of the said vehicle at Ex.P.78(f). He

has no contact with any Mangalore Road Lines. He says 138 Spl.CC No.171/2009 the alleged transaction is of the year 2004-2005. So much

value cannot be attached to this evidence of P.W.73. 176. P.W.74 A.N. Ranganath Kumar has come before

the court to say that, he is Valuer and Engineer and have

issued separate valuation reports contains Ex.P.64 and

other documents. According to him, his role of empenal

valuer of SBM is to issue the valuation report/ certificate

for the given assignment from time to time. He identified

his reports so marked in this case as per Ex.P.10(e). As

per the agreement, to buy and build, the development

cost is shown as Rs.700/- per Sq.ft. According to him, the

said cost is more than the market value. He identifies

Ex.P.64, 65, 68, 72, 79 to 83, 99, 102, 113 to 115, 117,

121, 123, 124,, 128, 89 to 92, 110 and 120. According to

his evidence, in all these files, he noticed that, there is

difference in his valuation and the valuation stated by the

bank. 177. In the cross-examination, it is elicited that for

 providing valuation, the bank may assign the valuation

 orally also. Based on the provided documents, he visited 139 Spl.CC No.171/2009 the properties and gave valuation. He admits that, the

 valuation may differ from time to time. Based upon the

 availability of MLD, he has furnished his valuation. When

 he visited the properties, the entire project was not

 completed. In his report, he mentioned so. He denies

 other suggestions. 178. He further says that, his assignment by the bank

 was to prepare the valuation report with regard to the

 properties as on the date of valuation only. He admits

 that, based upon the title deeds furnished to him and also

 on perusal of the documents and as well as based upon

 his personal visit to the properties, he has prepared the

 report. The report is not objected by the defence.

 Valuation report is not disputed by anybody in this case.

 So, to the extent of furnishing valuation report, the

 evidence of P.W.74 is to be accepted. 179. It has further come in the evidence of P.W.74 that,

the cost of construction is based on the material used for

construction, the architect and other specifications. He 140 Spl.CC No.171/2009 mentioned so many things in the cross-examination. To that

extent, his evidence is to be believed. 180. P.W.75 T. Satish Babu says that, he is the valuer

and he has issued valuation report with regard to Bidadi

Project. According to him, he is the sole Proprietor of M/s

K. Thammaiah and Associates, Banks approved valuer and

Govt. registered valuer. His proprietary concern is one of

the Panel member in the bank proved list of SBM,

Bengaluru since 2001. The role of empenal valuer of SBM

is to issue the valuation report/ certificate from time to

time. As per the instructions of SBM, Gandhi Nagar Branch

i.e. Accused No.1, he prepared valuation report regarding

Bidadi Project developed by M/s Seven Hills Properties

Private Limited by getting clearance from BMRDA/

BMICATA. Thus the evidence of P.W.75 is very much clear

that, the valuation report is prepared only after clearance

from BMRDA and other authorities. He identifies his report

as per Ex.P.38 and say that, site value was at Rs.600/- per

square feet. Similarly identifies other files at Ex.P.21, 37 to

40, 43, 47, 49 to 58. He has furnished valuation report. He 141 Spl.CC No.171/2009 further says in the cross-examination that the bank has

furnished documents to him before valuation and whatever

the documents bank has furnished, he has mentioned the

same in his report. Valuation is based upon the site value,

amenities available there. He has taken valuation as per

the 50% of the work being carried out at the present. So

the evidence of P.W.75 is very much clear that work was in

progress in the respective sites formed by Seven Hills

Properties Private Limited. This fact is not denied by the

prosecution by treating this witness as hostile witness. 181. P.W.76 A. Sehar Ponraj has come before the court

to speak about the certificate of incorporation and other

documents. To the extent of issuing the certificate of

incorporation of M/s Seven Hills Properties Private

Limited, the evidence of P.W.76 is to be accepted. No cross-

examination is directed to this witness. He identifies

Ex.P.386 and with his signature marked at Ex.P.386 and

P.386(a). 182. Ex.P.77 Sadanand Acharya, the Deputy Director

Town Planning has come before the court and says that 142 Spl.CC No.171/2009 BMICAPA was approved in the year 2004. Kallugopanahalli

comes within the jurisdiction of BMRDA and earlier

Banandur village used to come with the jurisdiction of

BMRDA. From 05.10.1999 the said Banandur village is

within the jurisdiction of BMICAPA. He identified

documents being submitted by M/s Nandi Enclaves

Property Developers or M/s Seven Hills Properties Pvt. Ltd.

He identified approval layout plain with regard to

Sy.No.228/2 of Banandur village, Ramnagar Taluk. 183. In the cross-examination he admits that, M/s

Nandi Enclaves Property Developers submitted an

application for approval of residential layout on Sy.No.s 19,

13/3, 18/1, 18/2, 18/3, 13/5 of Kallugopanahalli village. So

also in respect of Sy. No.s 229, 228/2, 209/1, 209/2 of

Banandur Village on 24.01.1998 for an area of 24 acres 32

guntas. He identifies file in respect of Sy.No.228/2 of

Banandur village which was handed over to BMICAPA from

BMRDA on 18.12.2007. So this evidence of P.W.77 goes

against the very case of the prosecution. It is the case of

prosecution that, no approval was obtained. But as per the 143 Spl.CC No.171/2009 evidence of this P.W.77 approval is granted. This P.W.77

further admits that on 04.04.2003 the applicant requested

the revision of layout for Sy.No.s 18/2, 18/3, 13/3, 13/5 and

19 measuring 15 acres 17 guntas of Kallugopanahalli

village only for which BMRDA approved the said revision

for an extent of 15 acres 17 guntas. This P.W.77 received

letter as per Ex.P.388 in this case. Thus the evidence of

P.W.77 goes against the case of prosecution. 184. P.W.78 Mohammed Khasim says that, as per the

instruction of his employer M/s Trishul Enterprises, he

used to take the customers to the sites. He has been turned

hostile to the case of prosecution. Nothing worth is elicited

from the mouth of this witness. In his examination-in-chief,

he specifically says that, whenever the customers come

with an intention to purchase sites, being formed by M/s

Trishul Enterprises, he used to pickup the interested

persons to the said sites to show the same. He has taken

the intending purchasers to Bidadi plot. No effective cross-

examination is directed to this P.W.78 by the prosecution. 144 Spl.CC No.171/2009 P.W.78 says about formation of layout by M/s Trishul

Enterprises and offering the public to purchase the same. 185. P.W.79 N. Hanumanthaiah has come before the

court to say that, he used to bring the customers to Trishul

Enterprises to purchase the sites. He too have been turned

hostile. One thing is clear from the evidence of P.W.79 that,

he acted as an agent of M/s Trishul Enterprises and used to

bring the intending purchasers to the sites. For that, he

used to get commission. Nothing worth is elicited from the

mouth of this witness, so as to disbelieve his version given

in the examination-in-chief. 186. P.W.80 P.A. Krishna Reddy is a Advocate, who has

furnished the legal opinion with regard to grant of loan as

per the housing loan files marked at Ex.P.8 to P131. In

unequivocal terms, he says about furnishing legal opinion

and receipt of his legal fees by way of six cheques marked

at Ex.P.401 to P.406. 187. He has been cross-examined by the counsel for

accused No.1. Categorically, this P.W.80 admits that, layout 145 Spl.CC No.171/2009 plan is different and the building plan is different. Based

upon the layout plan, he has furnished his legal opinion in

all the aforesaid transactions. He admits that, the building

plan is to be obtained if at all the owner of the site intends

to construct the house. He admits that, there would have

been possibility of building plan as on the date of tripartite

agreement. So, this admission of P.W.80 as well as

examination spoken to him proves that, based upon the

layout plan he has furnished legal opinion as found at

Ex.P.8 to P.131. When the legal opinion have been obtained

by accused No.1 before grant of loan, it can be stated that

all the procedures of granting loan have been followed by

this accused No.1 as per the submission of counsel for

accused No.1. Thus, the evidence of P.W.80 is to be

accepted with regard to furnishing of legal opinion. 188. P.W.81 Ramesh being the Revenue Inspector has

come before the court to say that he inspected land

bearing Sy.No.228/2 of Bnandur village along with bank

officials and CBI officials. On inspection, they noticed that

no construction work was commenced in the said survey 146 Spl.CC No.171/2009 number and it was vacant land. He identified mahazar at

Ex.P.160 so also his signature. He identifies photos marked

at Ex.P.407 to P.414. He identifies RTC extracts as per

Ex.P.415 of Sy.No.202 of Banandur village. 189. It is elicited in the cross-examination that,

Banandur village and Kallugonahalli village are adjoining

with each other. He further says that, the CBI officials

have not at all told him that, in the aforesaid survey

numbers in how many sites, the construction of the

building is expected. So this evidence spoken to in the

cross-examination falsifies the very case of the

prosecution that no layout was formed, no sites are

formed etc. So, the evidence of this P.W.81 suffers from

material particulars. 190. P.W.82 A.N. Ravishankar has come before the

court to say that, he being the Executive Engineer of

BESCOM speaks of submission of the application for

electricity by M/s Seven Hills Private Limited as per

Ex.P.147. That means, application was submitted by M/s

Seven Hills Private Limited for the purpose of taking 147 Spl.CC No.171/2009 electricity connection. It was submitted by the accuse

No.4. This P.W.82 has inspected the layout and sent

proposal for sanction for electricity. He admits that, on

10.04.2007 M/s Seven Hills Properties deposted

Rs.7,92,800/- towards initial deposit. So we find no

incriminating evidence spoken to by P.W.82 against the

accused persons. One thing is clear that, M/s Seven Hills

Properties has submitted an application for taking

electricity connection to the layout, so formed by it. 191. P.W.83 H.K. Nagaraje Gowda speaks of

conducting spot inspection, taking of photographs,

preparation of panchanama etc., at Sy.No.18/2 and 10 of

Kallugopanahalli village. He also speaks of preparation of

the panchanama as per Ex.P.159, identifies photographs

at Ex.P.418 to P.437. In the cross-examination, he admits

that, the photographs are silent with regard to survey

numbers of each said photographs are taken. The I.O.

has not informed that, for what purpose the photographs

have been snapped. He admits in unequivocal terms that,

"on seeing the photographs, formation of layout is 148 Spl.CC No.171/2009 completed". This admission of P.W.83 goes long way and

we find no incriminating evidence of this witness against

the accused persons. 192. P.W.84 B.K. Chandrashekar being the Contractor,

having contact with M/s Seven Hills Properties Private

Limited to put up construction of houses and

subsequently, he was asked to stop the construction. As

per his evidence, it is clear that M/s Seven Hills

Properties Private Limited have asked him to commence

construction and subsequently he was asked to stop the

construction. This fact is not denied by the defence. No

cross-examination is directed to this witness by the

counsel for accused. So, to the extent of stopping the

construction by this contractor, his evidence is to be

believed. 193. P.W.85 Gopalaiah was present when the

panchanama as per Ex.P.161 is prepared at Singapura

village and identified RTC extracts so marked in this

case. The panchanama is marked at Ex.P.161 and the

RTC extracts and marked at Ex.P.438 and 439 along with 149 Spl.CC No.171/2009 a letter marked at Ex.P.440. In categorical terms, this

 P.W.85 admits in his cross-examination that, "when we

 visited the said landed properties we noticed the

 progress in the construction of the houses except in nine

 sites". That means construction was very much progress

 in the said layout. 194. P.W.86 M. Suresh, being Executive Engineer of

BESCOM has come before the court to say about providing

electricity to the layout so formed in the aforesaid survey

number of Singapura village. According to him, during they

year 2004-2009, their Superintendent Engineer has not

granted any such sanction for supply of electricity and has

not issued any NOC. There is no application for supply of

electricity. He says that, for the first time he is seeing

Ex.P.461 before the court. Personally he has not verified

any of the documents in his office with regard to non

issuance of NOC. He personally has not received any letter

or document to the persons, who had applied for supply of

electricity to the houses so constructed in the said layout.

As per the document received by his office, there were 30 150 Spl.CC No.171/2009 such applications received requesting for supply of

electricity to their respective houses. This evidence spoken

to by P.W.86 shows about construction of houses in the

layout and demand for supply of electricity to the

respective house owners of the houses so constructed in

the said layout. This P.W.86 has no knowledge about

application for seeking NOC etc. 195. So, one thing is clear from the evidence of P.W.86

that, applications were submitted by the owners of the

house for supply of electricity. 196. P.W.87 K.N. Shivalinge Gowda says that, no

application was submitted for getting NOC by M/s Trishul

Enterprises from the Pollution Control Board. He being the

Environmental Officer of Pollution Control Board says so.

But in the cross-examination he says that, the Member

Secretary was the competent person to issue NOC in

consultation with State Level Committee and such NOC has

been issued from the Head Office. Why this P.W.87 is

examined in this case is not explained. So, when he is not 151 Spl.CC No.171/2009 an competent person, the prosecution ought not have

examined this witness. 197. P.W.88 Nagarathnamma says that, she has worked

as Revenue Officer, BBMP, Bengaluru. She was not

competent to approve the layout plan in Sy.No.60 and 70 of

Singapura Village. She identifies layout plan as per

Ex.P.463. But in the cross-examination, she says that, the

Singapura Village was not in the jurisdiction of BBMP in

the year 2004. She personally has not gone through the

documents before giving her statement before I.O. She

admits that, respective Municipalities or the Corporation

give approval for layout plan within their jurisdiction. So,

this admissions of P.W.88 in the cross-examination goes

against her own examination-in-chief. Purpose of cross-

examination is to elicit the truth. 198. P.W.89 B.N. Eshwaraiah says about Current

Account No.141 standing in the name of Sri. Mohammed

Nazir Ali Siddiki of Chikkaballapura. As per Ex.P.464 being

opened by him. According to his evidence, he being retired

Manager of Dena Bank, an account was opened in the 152 Spl.CC No.171/2009 name of aforesaid person and he has received the cheque

for encashment for Rs.10,00,000/- and was dishonoured.

Collection schedule and collection memo is marked at

Ex.P.465 and 466 respectively. There is no cross-

examination directed to this witness. So to the extent of

receiving of cheque for encashment in the account of

aforesaid Mohammed Nazir Ali Siddiki, his evidence is to

be believed. 199. P.W.90 H.V. Sannappaiah is the Joint Director of

Town Planning, KIADB has come before the court to say

that, at the relevant time, there was no revised layout plan

being prepared after 1999 by BMRDA in respect of

Sy.No.228/2 of Banandur village. BMRDA is the competent

authority to approve layout plan in respect of Sy.No.18/2,

and also 19 of Kallugopanahalli village and Sy.No.228/2 of

Banandur village before commencing of BMICBA. He

further says that, till 2009, his office has not received any

application from M/s Trishul Enterprises regarding

approval of layout plan. We find inconsistent evidence. The

other witness says that, BMRDA approval was obtained, 153 Spl.CC No.171/2009 but this witness speaks otherwise. He has been directed

with severe cross-examination by the counsel for accused

No.2 to 7. He admits in the cross-examination that, in

respect of landed property of Banandur village in

Sy.No.209/1, 209/2, 228/2, and 229 and Sy.No.18/1, 18/2,

18/3, 13/3, 13/5 and 19 of Kallugopanahalli village, layout

plan was approved on 12.07.1999 by BMRDA. So, this

admission goes against the examination-in-chief spoken to

by this witness. Even he admits about approval of the

revised plan by BMRDA. On 06.05.2005 another revised

plan was approved. Therefore, the evidence of P.W.90 may

not help the case of prosecution. 200. P.W.91 A Shankar has come before the court to

say with regard to the issuance of bank cheque by debiting

the account of the customers as per the application so

received. He identifies Ex.P.470 and other documents. Bank

cheque is marked at Ex.P.471. No cross-examination is

directed to this witness by the defence. So, to the extent of

his examination-in-chief, his evidence is to be accepted. 154 Spl.CC No.171/2009 201. P.W.92 Smt. D. Bhavani Balakrishna has come

before the court and identifies one cheque standing in the

name of accused No.2, which is cleared by the Central

Clearing Unit. She identifies Ex.P.472, P.473, P.475 and

P.476. No cross-examination is directed to this witness. She

identifies these documents. Her evidence is to be believed

to a limited content. 202. PW.93 M.V. Kumar, the CEO of Kempegowda

Pattanaa Souhardha Sangha, Tumkur has come before the

court and identifies Ex.P.477 being furnished the same to

the I.O. No cross-examination is directed to this witness. To

the extent of identifying Ex.P.477, his evidence is to be

believed. 203. P.W.94 Shivalingappa Marali also says that, he

being the General Manager of Hoysala Souhardha Co-

operative Bank, Chellakere. He identifies Ex.P479, the

account opening form in the name of accused No.2. This

fact is not disputed by the defence. So, the evidence of

P.W.94 is to be accepted with regard to identification of 155 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Ex.P.479 and the cheques being presented for encashment

as per Ex.P.480, P.481 and P.482 respectively. 204. P.W.95 V. Madhusudhan being District Registrar,

Mandya identifies Ex.P.390 to P.394 and P.392 respectively.

He is responsible for registration of documents relating to

agricultural land, sites and house buildings, collecting of

stamp duties and registration fees on behalf of government

which are related to transaction at Ramanagar Taluk. So

also issuance of Encumbrance Certificate etc. Likewise,

P.W.96 Hameed Ali, retired District Registrar identifies sale

deeds as per Ex.P.392. No cross-examination is directed to

this witness by the defence. So to the extent of their

examination-in-chief, his evidence is to be accepted. 205. P.W.97 Chikkapeddanna K.G., P.W.98 Ganga

Hanumaiah, P.W.99 Prabhakar C.J. and P.W.100 P. Praveen

Kumar identifies the sale deeds marked in this case at

Ex.P.392 and other documents. There is no cross-

examination directed to these witnesses. Therefore, to the

extent of their examination-in-chief as they have not spoken

anything against accused persons, their evidence is to be 156 Spl.CC No.171/2009 accepted to the limit to the extent of identifying the sale

deeds and other documents. 206. P.W.101 P. Praveen Kumar has come before the

court to say that, he is an employee of M/s Trishul

Enterprises and used to have interaction with the

customers. He identifies bunch of cheques marked at

Ex.P.140. According to his evidence, at the instruction of

Hanumappa Reddy and Venkata Reddy, he used to

withdraw the amount from SBM, Gandhi Nagar Branch and

gave it to them. He identifies his signature etc. He has

been cross-examined by the counsel for accused No.2 to 5.

He says that, he used to distribute the commission to the

brokers at the instructions of Hanumappa Reddy and

Venkata Reddy. According to him, all the borrowers came

to their office when the brokers have brought them and the

brokers used to process the documents. So, his evidence is

quite against to the case of the prosecution. 207. P.W.102 by name K.R. Venkatesha Reddy, P.W.103

K. Nagaraj have come before the court to say that, they

used to take the customers to the registration office at the 157 Spl.CC No.171/2009 instance of accused No.4 and accused No.4 used to do

administration in the Trishul Enterprises. Therefore, these

two witnesses have spoken before the court about taking

of customers to the office of sub Registrar for the purpose

of registration of site/ houses being constructed. Sale of

sites have been spoken to by these witnesses. These two

witnesses have been thoroughly cross-examined by the

counsel for accused. They have not at all given any

evidence in favour of the prosecution. The admissions so

given by these witnesses in the cross-examination are

quite against the case of prosecution so made out. 208. P.W.104 Channappa Rathnappagol, P.W.105

Doddappa Jyothi, P.W.106 Santhosh V. Nayak and P.W.107

P.B. Mathews have come before the court to say that, they

have furnished Ex.P.484, 204 to 211, 485 to 489, 211 to

263, 490 to 492, 493 and 496 respectively. The documents

were in the name of D. Sudhakar and he has furnished 8

D.D.s standing in the name of D. Sudhakar. No cross-

examination is directed to these witnesses by the defence. 158 Spl.CC No.171/2009 So, their evidence is to be accepted to the extent of

furnishing documents as directed by the I.O. 209. P.W.108 J. Anil has come before the court to say

that he has taken photographs as per Ex.P407 to 414, 418

to 437, 442 to 460. According to his cross-examination, as

per the instructions of CBI officers he has taken

photographs. To the extent of taking photographs in the

manner stated, his evidence is to be accepted. 210. P.W.109 J. K. Raviraj Hegde, P.W.10 K.

Rajashekar, P.W.111 S. Swamy Das are examined in this

case with regard to the furnishing of the documents

marked at Ex.P.499 to 509, 510, 518 and 519 to the I.O.

respectively. There is no cross-examination directed to

these witness by the defence. To the extent of furnishing

documents, their evidence is to be accepted. 211. P.W.112 S. Manjunathaiah being retired RTO

 has come before the court to say that he has furnished

 particulars regarding vehicle bearing Reg.No.KA-18-

 3252 an Auto Rickshaw as per Ex.P.520 and P.521. No 159 Spl.CC No.171/2009 cross-examination is directed to this witness. So, to the

extent of furnishing particulars of the said vehicle, his

evidence is to be believed. 212. P.W.113 Sathish Chandra says that he has

furnished copy of the cheques under letter as per

Ex.P.522. According to him, on search of residential

house of accused No.1, they noticed presence of

cheques etc. In all 8 items are seized from the house of

accused No.1. He identifies verification of all the

documents as per Ex.P.522. With regard to the seizure of

cheques from accused No.1, there is no dispute. Accused

No.1 has not denied about the same. Therefore, much

value cannot be attached to the evidence of P.W.113. 213. P.W.114 is Venkataraju says about non-issuance

of NOC to M/s Trishul Enterprises. In the cross-

examination, he says that for the formation of layout, no

NOC is required. When no NOC is required, then what

is the necessity for the prosecution to examine this

witness . Therefore, the evidence of P.W.114 may not

help the case of prosecution. 214. P.W.115 C.D. Kumar says that, no NOC is

issued to M/s Seven Hills Properties Private Limited. To

that effect, Ex.P.524 is issued. In the cross-examination

he says that, he cannot say that Singapura Village was

within the jurisdiction of which Regional Office.

Ex.P.524 is silent with regard to which property NOC

was obtained. So, the evidence of P.W.115 may not help

the case of prosecution. 215. Further he admits that, if any NOC is

obtained from Pollution Control Board, the concerned

Regional Officer has to furnish the report. Ex.P.524 is

silent about that. 216. P.W.116 S. Nagesh has come before the

 court to speak that, there are no records to show that,

 M/s Trishul Enterprises requested for issuing NOC for

 developing site in Sy.No.60 and 70 of Singapura

 Village. In the cross-examination, he says that, as per

 the electricity supply regulation for formation of

 layout, permission of electricity authority is

 necessary. But says, before receiving Ex.P461, he has 161 Spl.CC No.171/2009 not visited Singapura Village. His evidence is quite

against to the case of prosecution. 217. P.W.117 A.B. Hosapujari is the Divisoinal

mechanical Engineer, North Zone, BMTC. He says

about issuance of letter with salary particulars of Mr.

Mohammed Miyan as per Ex.P.534 and 535. One

Mohammed Miyan was not working in BMTC. He has

been thoroughly cross-examined by the counsel for

accused persons. He admits that, the salary slip

marked in the file Ex.P.60 standing in the name of

Mohammed Miyan may be issued from Depot No.14.

Thus issuance of salary slip is not seriously disputed

by this witness. According to him, the contents of

salary slips pertains to Chikkamaraiah found in

Ex.P.64 are not tallying with the salary slip as per

Ex.P.526 and 527. In the cross-examination, he has

given a clear go by. According to him, the Accounts

Department, BMTC prepares salary bills. The person

who prepared account bills is not examined in this

case. More so, he says that, in the year 2005, he has 162 Spl.CC No.171/2009 not worked as Depot Manager of BMTC,

Yeshwanthapura, Bengaluru. The stationary so used

and the format of Ex.P.8(b) and (c) is similar. Thus the

evidence of P.W.117 may not help the case of

prosecution. 218. P.W.118 K.R. Omana Kuttan has come before

the court to say about issuance of salary certificate of

Sri. Philomini Raj A. marked at Ex.P.529. According to

him, on comparison of Ex.P.529 and Ex.P.28(b), he

finds difference in the particulars of salary of said

employee. But in the cross-examination he admits

that Ex.P.28(b) is the salary slip issued by his office in

the name of aforesaid employee. This evidence goes

against the case of the prosecution. 219. P.W.119 B.K. Jha says about issuance of

letter with salary certificate of Mr. Mohan Kumar

Belvadi as per Ex.P.535. But in the cross-examination

he admits that, the letter head wherein Ex.P.127(a) is

typed belongs to their company. In the month of

October 2004, he was not working as Deputy General 163 Spl.CC No.171/2009 manager at the said company etc. he is not aware

that, during 2004 who was the Manger Account in

their company. In both the salary slips stated above,

salary is some, so also gross salary. So, this evidence

is not helpful to the case of prosecution. 220. P.W.120 B.R. Somashekar says about issuance

of salary particulars of BESCOM employee as per

Ex.P.536 and 537. Certain documents are confronted

to this witness. He says that, on comparison of

Ex.P.537(a), he says that, Ex.P.66(a) is not genuine

salary slip. But in the cross-examination he says

admits that, aforesaid Abdul Hakeem was an

employee of BESCOM. Ex.P.66(a) is of the year 2004.

He admits that, salary certificate of the aforesaid

employee was issued from their office. This evidence

goes against the very case of the prosecution. He

further says that, without verifying the salary

particulars of the employee, he cannot say whether

Ex.P.66(a) contains correct particulars or not. Thus

evidence of P.W.120 suffers from material particulars. 164 Spl.CC No.171/2009 221. P.W.121 Rathnamma being retired Attender in

BESCOM has come before the court to say that, she

came in contact with M/s Trishul Enterprises through

a middle person. She visited the office of M/s Trishul

Enterprises to purchase the sites through the said

M/s Trishul Enterprises. Accordingly, she furnished

I.D. proof, caste certificate, gas card, salary

certificate to the M/s Trishul Enterprises. She says,

when she applied for grant of site, she was working

as office attendant in BESCOM. She has put her

signature to the document. She was confronted with

file marked at Ex.P.72. She says that, when she

submitted her salary certificate, her gross salary was

Rs.14,601/- as shown in Ex.P.72(a). She never

received any notice or communication from the bank

calling upon her to repay the loan amount. She has

been directed with severe cross-examination by the

counsel for accused. She admits with regard to

execution of sale deed and obtaining of site form from

M/s Trishul Enterprises. She says that, her signatures 165 Spl.CC No.171/2009 were taken on the documents. She also got executed

sale deed in the office of Sub-Registrar, Yelahanka.

She further admits that, agents used to come to her

house and tell about availability of the sites. Now, she

cannot say that one Mohammed Amanulla was

amongst such agents. One thing is clear from the

evidence of P.W.121 that, she contacted M/s Trishul

Enterprises and availed loan from SBM and

purchased the site. So to that extent, her evidence is

to be accepted. 222. P.W.122 T.M. Ramesh says that, he has

furnished documents as per Ex.P.151 to 154. He also

identifies particulars of documents marked at

Ex.P.538 and 538(a). There is no cross-examination

directed to this witness by the respective counsels for

accused. To the extent of furnishing these documents,

the evidence of P.W.122 is to be believed. 223. P.W.123 A Balsami speaks with regard to the

issuance of expert opinion as per Ex.P.551. According

to his evidence, on receipt of questioned document at 166 Spl.CC No.171/2009 FSL, Hyderabad he examined 2122 questioned

documents and submitted his report as per Ex.P.541

along with his opinion. With regard to the contents of

the report defence is not not disputed. No cross-

examination is directed by any of the counsel for

accused persons. So, whatever the contents of

Ex.P.541 are deemed to be admitted by the defence in

this case, so to the extent of contents of report, the

evidence of P.W.123 is to be accepted. 224. P.W.124 Prema Logan at the relevant time

she was working as Police Inspector, CBI, BS and FC

(Bank Securities and Fraud Cell), Bengaluru.

According to her evidence, one Hithendra, the then

Superintendent of Police registered a crime in this

case and set the criminal law into motion. She

identifies Ex.P.543 as an FIR. The original complaint

is marked at Ex.P.1 in this case. According to her

evidence, she has recorded statement of witnesses

and collected the documents and with regard to her

role as I.O. defence has not denied. No cross- 167 Spl.CC No.171/2009 examination is directed to P.W.124 by the respective

counsels for accused. So, the evidence of P.W.124 is to

be accepted to prove that, she has done part of

investigation. 225. P.W.125 Chanda Rani is the I.O. in this case

and HR sitting officer. In her evidence she has spoken

in chief-examination about recording of statement of

various witnesses so examined in this case and also

collection of documents and after completion of the

investigation she has filed charge sheet against the

accused persons. The marathon evidence has been

spoken to this by P.W.125 with regard to her role as

I.O. 226. She has been thoroughly cross-examined by

the counsels for accused persons. She admits that,

with regard to the issuance of guidelines with regard

to the investigation by the Central Vigilance

Commission. She further says that as per the circular,

fraud has to be placed before the board. But she says

that the fraud pertain to this case was not placed 168 Spl.CC No.171/2009 before the said board. She admits that, every

Manager of bank is paid to improve the bank. During

her investigation, she has seen three years audit

report. Further, she deposes ignorance that in the

course of regular audit of the aforesaid bank, it is

observed by the auditors that there is dearth of staff

in the branch. The officials of bank have been

examined in the case have specifically stated that

there was dearth of staff in SBM, Gandhi Nagar

Branch. But this P.W.125 deposes ignorance about the

said facts. She admits in unequivocal terms that in

respect of all the loan which accused No.1 granted

have sent the control returns. But she is not aware

that along with control return, the documents were

sent to the Regional Office. She says purpose of

sending control report to the Regional Office is to

bring to its notice about transactions did by the

Manager of the bank. It has come in the evidence of

official witness of the bank that, control returns have

been submitted to the Regional Office within 169 Spl.CC No.171/2009 stipulated time, no comments have been made by the

Regional Office with regard to the transactions being

done by accused No.1. He was requested to stop

discounting cheques and bills exceeding discretionary

limits till realization of earlier cheques etc. Thus, this

P.W.125 has not ascertained about number of loan

applications received by accused No.1 during Loan

Mela. She admits that, the mortgages are created to

secure the bank loan. So according to her evidence

whenever accused No.1 has granted loan, they are

secured by creating mortgages. This P.W.125 is not

aware that, after suspension of accused No.1, he was

asked to work in the branch to recover loan so

advanced by him. So, according to the evidence of

P.W.125, she does not deny, but deposes ignorance. It

is the case of defence that, even after suspension of

accused No.1, he was asked to work in the bank. The

loan is recovered. 227. P.W.125 in categorical terms states in her

evidence as under: So, this admission of P.W.125 spoken in her evidence shows

that accused No.1 has not received any gratification or any

benefit, when he sanctioned loan. But she tried to improve

and says that, during house search, it is noticed that, he

was in possession of blank cheques. A question was

directed to accused No.1 about possession of cheques. She

further deposes ignorance that, accused No.1 was posted

to the said Branch for recovery of loan after his suspension.

So, whatever loan so granted have been recovered as per

the defence. It is not denied by any of the witnesses in this

case. She further admits that "there was no document

possessed by accused No.1 about receipt of money by him

except the blank cheques recovered during search". This

evidence of P.W.125 is quite against the case made out by

the prosecution. No doubt, she says that some accounts

were non-performing accounts. But according to her

investigation, the entire loan amount so sanctioned by

accused No.1 repaid. 228. She has given evidence in favour of defence in

the cross-examination directed by the counsel for accused

No.2 to 7. She says, when she completed the investigation,

she concluded that, loss sufferred by the branch was due to

5% difference between house loans and commercial loans

and no other loss. She further says that, if it is house loan,

the interest would have been 8.5% per annum and if it is

commercial loan, the interest would have been 13.5% per

annum. She identifies loan transaction of one Puttaswamy

marked at Ex.P.8 and the rate of interest is calculated at

11.5% per annum. She admits that, in all the housing loan

transactions the interest rate is from 8.55% to 11.25% per

annum. She further admits that calculation of loss of the

bank is a notional loss. She further admits that, other than

the statements of the borrowers recorded by her during

investigation, no documents are available about forgery of

borrowers documents submitted towards loan. She has not

investigated about the involvement of agents in respect of

forgery of the documents furnished by raising the loan

from the bank. She personally has not scientifically 172 Spl.CC No.171/2009 investigated nor sent for scientific examination regarding

involvement of employers or any individual attached to the

said employer in forging the documents. She further says

that, she personally has not collected the specimen

handwritings or signatures of the borrowers or agents or

employers to investigate about their involvement in the

commission of crime. So also, she has not done any

scientific investigation regarding the same. She admits

that, her investigation was not conclusive regarding where,

when and how the forgery of documents is committed by

the borrowers. She failed to say that the evidence collected

prima facie proved the forgery of documents. 229. To understand the forgery of documents, so

furnished by the borrowers, no steps have been taken by

the I.O. to send them to the FSL for scientific examination.

Thus, as per the submission of counsels for accused, except

the bald say in examination-in-chief of all the witnesses

establish the evidence of officials of bank, no cogent and

acceptable evidence is placed on record by the prosecution 173 Spl.CC No.171/2009 to prove that the role of accused in forging the documents

in the manner alleged by the prosecution. 230. According to her, during investigation, she

called accused No.2 to 4 for the purpose of investigation.

They denied their knowledge and involvement in the

commission of the crime. Now she do not remember

whether accused No.2 to 4 told her that, they came to

know about forgery of documents only when the bank has

informed them. She has not collected the signatures of

accused No.2 to 4. She has not noticed any of the

transportation of goods as per Ex.P.539. She has not

verified the documents in respect of sales tax copies etc. So

if the entire cross-examination directed to this P.W.125 is

perused, she has given quite different evidence than the

evidence spoken to by other witnesses. It can be stated

that, fundamentally her investigation suffers from infirmity.

The I.O.'s are the supervisors of the investigation in all

criminal cases. Unless there is corroboration of evidence of

all other witnesses, I.O.'s evidence become formal in

nature. 231. In this case, number of documents have been

produced and marked in the evidence. Amongst the said

documents, Ex.P.1 is the complaint so filed by the

complainant before Superintendent of Police, CBI, Ex.P.2 is

the General Circular of the bank regarding limiting the

housing loan etc., Ex.P.3 is confidential letter. Like we find

Ex.P.4 to 7 being the letters, note etc. Ex.P.8 to 131 are files

managed by SPB Branch regarding grant of house loan to

various borrowers. Amongst these documents, some

documents commencing from Ex.P.75(a) to 96(a), 99(a) are

alleged to be the fake salary certificate. But the witnesses

so examined in this case say that, they never know about

forgery of documents. The real persons who are authorized

to issue salary certificates are not cited as witnesses or

examined before this court to prove the forgery of the said

documents. So merely because the documents are

produced alleging that they are forged documents, without

any proof, it cannot be stated that, story so put forth by the

prosecution is to be accepted. The I.O. has not taken any

pain in sending these documents to prove that, these 175 Spl.CC No.171/2009 documents are really forged documents. The Dominic who

was an agent of M/s Trishul Enterprises is no more.

Amanulla has not supported the case of prosecution. They

are the agents. 232. Ex.P.132 to P.138 are the cheque purchase

documents containing challans, transfer debit vouchers

etc. Ex.P.139 to P.146 are the receipt memo, likewise,

Ex.P.148 also. These documents are not disputed by the

defence. Likewise, we find Ex.P.149, 140 and 151 being the

documents collected by M/s Seven Hills Properties Limited,

SBM, Bengaluru Zone etc. To prove that the Loan Utsav or

Loan Mela was conducted, the documents at Ex.P.150 and

150(a) are produced by the prosecution. These documents

are not in dispute. Ex.P.151 is the Chief Manager Letter

addressed to the SPB Branch regarding conducting of audit

etc. In this document 367 house building loan accounts

were covered under audit, Ex.P.152 is the audit report

commencing from 04.08.2003 to 30.12.2005. It is noticed

in the audit report that, over due interest of bills purchase

the amount detected was 3.34 lakhs and amount recovered 176 Spl.CC No.171/2009 was 3.34 lakhs. This observation regarding effectiveness/

efficiency of concurrent audit system as looks into all areas

assigned. General observations have been made by the

audit party with regard to credit risk management and

housing loans. The branch is purchasing cheques for large

amounts very frequently. The manager has exceeded the

discretionary limits etc. The control returns have been

submitted. Likewise, we find Ex.P.153 letter of

management. Ex.P.154 is another audit report. In this

report guidelines for quantifine deviations and avoiding

scores have been mentioned as 04% very few, 09% few,

20% some and above many. Ex.P.155 document containing

verification employment and salary certificates dated

13.06.2009 in respect of various employees. Likewise,

Ex.P.156 to P.158 are the letters of confirmation from

employment. So also Ex.P.159 is the spot panchanama in

respect of Sy.No.18/2 and 19 of Kallugopanahalli village.

There was demarcation of 4 stones etc. Ex.P.160, 161 are

the spot panchanama in respect of Sy.No.228/2 measuring

1 acre 32 guntas of Banandur village, spot panchanama in 177 Spl.CC No.171/2009 respect of Sy.No.60 and 70 of Singapura village. While

marking these documents, no objection is raised by the

defence. Ex.P.162 is the joint account opening form of

accused No.2 to 4. Ex.P.163 is the crtificate under Sec.2(a)

of Banker Book of Evidence Act, Ex.P.164 is account

opening form of accused No.2, Ex.P.65 is the statement of

account of Seven Hills Properties. Likewise we find various

documents produced by the prosecution. Ex.P.166 to P.167

being the account opening form and other documents

pertaining to B.K. Chandrashekar and others. Ex.P.178 to

180 are the cheque purchase registers. These have not

been disputed by accused No.1. He admits about cheques

as mentioned in these registers. Ex.P.181 to 189 are the

housing loan circulars issued by the bank. In these

circulars certain guidelines are issued to all the branches.

Ex.P.190 and 191 are the empenlment of valuers-approved

list. Ex.P.192 is the bill register showing credit facility limit.

Ex.P.193 is cashier's receipt day book. Thus other

documents are Ex.P.194 to 196 are the letters of reqeust

etc., Ex.P.197 is the circular showing scheme of delegation 178 Spl.CC No.171/2009 of financial powers addressed to all the officers of the bank,

Ex.P.198 is letter addressed by SBM Division-IV, Bengaluru

Zone to the Chief Manager, SPB, Gandhi Nagar Branch

dated 05.01.2006 with regard to the cheque purchases and

deviations in sanction of loans, Ex.P.199 is the document

showing guidelines regarding discount and purchase of

bills etc. Ex.P.200 is the reply given by SPB Branch. It is

advised to stop immediately financing for DHLs against

salary certificates of borrowers unless they are supported

by IT Returns and Employers Form No.16. Thereafter it

was stopped. Ex.P.201 is the letter address by SBM Region-

IV regarding borrowers salary certificates which are not

supported by Form No.16 and other documents, Ex.P.202 is

a letter dated 05.01.2006 advising Chief Manager, Gandhi

Nagar branch stating that pending rectification of

irregularities/ deviations. It is advised not to sanction any

loans and submit proposal with his recommendations for

sanction at their end. This letter shows that it was advised

to the branch pending rectification of irregularities/

deviations and it is advised not to sanction any loans 179 Spl.CC No.171/2009 thereby ratified the act of accused No.1. Ex.P.203 is the

letter addressed to the DGM, Bengaluru about borrowers

salary verification certificates. Ex.P.204 to 211 are the

Demand Drafts submitted by accused No.2 for encashment.

Ex.P.212 to P.263 are the cheques. The contents of these

cheques are not disputed. Ex.P.264 to 271 are the letters

addressed to AGM and others regarding availment of

housing loans by various borrowers. Ex.P.272 is the

verification report on the house building loan sanctioned

from 01.01.2005 by Gandhi Nagar Branch. Ex.P.273 is the

letter of undertaking by accused No.2 to 4 on behalf of M/s

Trishul Enterprises stating that they have entered into

tripartite joint development agreement with the owners of

converted land bearing Sy.No.70 measuring 4 acres, 19

guntas. When there is tripartite agreement, then loan

amount would be directly released in favour of developer.

Certain properties have been resold and some borrowers

have got constructed houses and are residing therein. So it

is admitted by the borrowers that they have purchased

sites. Houses were constructed and keys were handed over 180 Spl.CC No.171/2009 to them. Ex.P.274 is the letter of undertaking on behalf of

Trishul Enterprises signed by accused No.4 brining to the

notice of Gandhi nagar branch with regard to tripartite

agreements. Ex.P.275 to P.292 are the seizure memos of

various documents by the I.O. during investigation. These

documents are not disputed. Ex.P.293 to 301 are the

documents collected by the I.O. from HAL, BWSSB.

Ex.P.302 to 310 are also the letter, pay slip, salary slip etc

issued by KSRTC showing pay particulars of these

employees, Ex.P.311 is a death certificate of Ahesha who

died on 07.11.2007. Ex.P.312 to 333 are the Form No.16,

salary certificate, pay slip of various employees who

borrowed loan from Gandhi nagar branch. Ex.P.334 is the

cheque dated 16.12.2004 in the name of Chamundi M. for

Rs.11,500/- signed by partners of Trishul Enterprises. But

this Chamundi have been turned hostile and nothing worth

is elicited from the mouth of this witness. He is examined

as P.W.46. 233. Ex.P.336 is the absolute sale deed executed in

favour of Smt. Mary Stephens by Andanappa and V.N. Ajith 181 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Prasad Jain i.e. accused No.3. It is a second sale being not

disputed by the defence. Ex.P.337 is the letter address by

the BEML Ltd. to the I.O. regarding certification of pay slip

and Form No.16 in respect of late Venkata Rao. Ex.P.338 is

a statement of P.W.58 Firoz Pasha. He has been turned

hostile. Likewise P.W.59, P.W.60, 61, have been turned

hostile as stated supra. They say that, they have not stated

before the I.O. as per Ex.P.339, 339(a), (b), (c), 340, 349(a), (b) and (c) and 341 respectively. The said evidence is not

helpful to the case of prosecution. 234. Ex.P.342 is a letter addressed by ING Vysya to

the I.O. regarding M/s Trishul Enterprises and M/s Seven

Hills Properties and M/s Seven Hills Distilleries Limited to

show that cheques received at the time of realization along

with the schedule etc. Ex.P.343 is another letter of ING

Vysya, Chellakere Branch addressed to the I.O. enclosing

original credit voucher dated 05.12.2005 for Rs.34.50 lakhs

in the account of M/s Meerams Overseas Pvt. Ltd. Ex.P.344

is the current account opening form in the name of accused

No.2. Ex.P.345 is the account extract. Ex.P.346 is the copy 182 Spl.CC No.171/2009 of register of cheques returned by ING Vysya. Ex.P.347 to

358 are the cheques in the name of Seven Hills Properties

and others for various considerations about presentation of

cheques. None of the accused have denied these

documents. Ex.P.359 is the account opening form in the

name of accused No.2. Ex.P.360 and 361 are the transfer

vouchers. Likewise Ex.P.362 to 374 are the certificate with

document sent for realization of Hundis. Ex.P.375 is a DD in

the name of accused No.5 for Rs.73,60,000/-. Ex.P.376 is

the registers showing telegraphic transfers payable.

Ex.P.377 is the postage book and relevant entires. Ex.P.378

is the letter addressed by RTO, Mangalore dated

31.03.2009. 235. Ex.P.379 is a register maintained by Mangalore

Road Lines for having arranged vehicles to various

destinations showing the registration numbers of the

vehicles by collecting commissions. Ex.P.380 to 382 are the

blank letter had of Mangalore Road Lines and the letters

have been addressed to the RTO as per Ex.P.381. Ex.P.383

is the valuation report prepared by K. Thammaiah and 183 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Associations being the Chartered Engineers and registered

valuers. These documents are not disputed by the defence.

Ex.P.384 and 385 are the letters addressed by Asst.

Registrar of Companies regarding registration of said

companies. Ex.P.386 is a letter issued by Asst. Registrar of

companies. Ex.P.387 is the certificate of incorporation of

Meerams Agro Foods Private Limited with necessary

documents. Likewise, we find Ex.P.388 to 585 being the

letter, account opening forms etc., which have been

collected by the I.O. during the course of investigation. 236. On reading all these documents, as the contents

of these documents have not been denied by the witnesses.

It can be very well stated that, the defence has admitted

these documents. The grievance of the prosecution is that,

for unlawful gain, this accused No.1 has granted loan and

he has acted unbecoming of a public servant. Accused No.2

being MLA at the relevant time and accused No.3 to 5 are

in connivance each other have committed the offences of

criminal conspiracy etc. Thus on reading the charge so

framed in this case, so many allegations are made against 184 Spl.CC No.171/2009 the accused persons. The valuation report of residential

layout is also been obtained by the I.O. in respect of sites

being formed in Sy.No.18/1, 13/1 of Kallugopanahalli

village. These documents though are not denied, it is the

bounden duty of the prosecution to prove the ingredients of

the offences made out against the accused persons. 237. On behalf of defence Ex.D.1 to D.14 are marked

in this case. These documents produced by the defence

show that letters have been addressed by the Head Office

to the accused No.1 and the accused No.1 in turn

addressed reply etc. Relevant admissions of some

witnesses have been marked in this case on behalf of the

defence. So, to attract the provisions of the offences

alleged to have been committed by the accused persons, it

is the bounden duty of the prosecution to prove the

ingredients of the offences so made out against the

accused persons. Now let met analyze the ingredients of

the offences made out against the accused persons so as to

come to the definite conclusion that whether prosecution is

able to establish the guilt of the accused to hilt or not. 185 Spl.CC No.171/2009 238. The prosecution has alleged that, these accused

persons have committed the offences under Sec.120-B , 420 , 468 , 409 , 471 of IPC and under Sec.13(i)(d) R/w 13(2)

of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . Sec.120-B of IPC

speaks of punishment of criminal conspiracy. It is the

bounden duty of the prosecution to prove the essential

ingredients of the offences made out against accused

persons. So far as this offence is concerned, the essential

ingredients are: 239. What is therefore necessary is to show meeting

of minds of two or more persons for doing or causing to be

done an illegal act or an act by illegal means. Mere

knowledge or discussion or generation of a crime in the

mind of the accused is not sufficient to constitute an

offence. The offence takes place with the meetings of minds 186 Spl.CC No.171/2009 even if nothing is further done. It is an offence independent

of other offences and punishable separately. Thus, the

prosecution is required to establish the offence by applying

the same legal principles which are otherwise applicable

for the purpose of proving criminal misconduct on the part

of an accused. 240. This criminal conspiracy is generally hatched in

secrecy. Thus direct evidence is difficult to obtain or

access. The offence can be proved by adducing

circumstantial evidence or by necessary implication.

Meeting of minds to form a criminal conspiracy has to be

proved by adducing substantive evidence in cases where

circumstantial evidence is incomplete or vague. The gist of

the offences of conspiracy then lies not in doing the act or

effecting the purpose for which the conspiracy is formed

nor in attempting to do them between the parties. The

Hon'ble Supreme Court of India says that, agreement is

essential. 241. Therefore, the prosecution should prove (a) that

the accused agreed to do or caused to be done and (b) that 187 Spl.CC No.171/2009 such act was illegal or was to be done by illegal means (c)

that means overt-act was done by one of the accused in

pursuance of the crime. 242. So far as offence of cheating is concerned, Sec.415 of IPC defines cheating. The definition of cheating

contains two parts. First comes the main part "whoever, by

deceiving any person------- "words which obviously apply to

the whole section. Then comes the first part "fraudulently,

or dishonestly induces the person so deceived to deliver

any property to any person or to consent that any person

shall retain any property. "Then comes Part 2, which is an

alternative to sub-part 1 viz, "or intentionally induces mind,

repuration or property. Therefore, definition of offence of

cheating embraces some cases in which no transfer of

property is occasioned by the deception and some in which

such a transfer occurs. 243. The prosecution is under obligation to prove the

ingredients i.e. deception of any person who fraudulenty or

dishonestly induces the person so deceived to deliver any

property to any person, or to consent that any person shall 188 Spl.CC No.171/2009 retain any property or intentionally inducing the person so

deceived to do or omit to do anything which he would not

do or omit if he were not so deceived, and which act or

omission causes or is likely to cause damage or harm to

any person in body, mind, reputation or property. 244. Therefore, in order to constitute the offence of

cheating, it would be necessary to show that a person had

fraudulent or dishonest intention at the time of making

promise, mere failure to keep up promise subsequently

cannot be presumed as an act leading to cheating.

Therefore, dishonest intention from the beginning is

necessary. 245. Sec.420 of IPC speaks of ingredients of the offence

of cheating, viz., are not only that, the accused has cheated

someone but also that by doing so, he has dishonestly

induced the person who was cheated to deliver property.

So the prosecution is under the obligation to prove all

these factual aspects coupled with legal position. 189 Spl.CC No.171/2009 246. So far as offence under Sec.409 of IPC is

concerned, we have to read the provisions of Sec.405 of

IPC, which speaks of criminal breach of trust. This criminal

breach of trust have got its own scope. Terms of section are

very wide. It applies to one who is in manner entrusted

with the property or dominion over property. In criminal

misappropriation, the property comes into the possession

of the offender by some casualty or otherwise, and he

afterwards misappropriates it. Here in this case, it is

alleged that accused No.1 was the Chief Manager of SPB,

Gandhi Nagar Branch, who was entrusted to deal with the

money. 247. In the case of criminal breach of trust, offender

is lawfully entrusted with the property and he dishonestly

misappropriates the same, or wilfully suffers any other

person to do so, instead of discharging the trust attached

to it. Therefore, the ingredients are: (ii) of any direction of law prescribing the mode
 in which such trust is to be discharged, or (ii) of any legal contract made touching the
 discharge of such trust. To misappropriate means "improperly setting
 apart for one's use to the exclusion of the
 'owner'. 'Converts' means appropriation and
 dealing with property of another without right
 as if it is his own property. Here there may be
 appropriation by a mental act without any
 actual expenditure of the money thus
 appropriated. Sec.406 of IPC speaks of criminal breach of trust by

public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent. The

following are essential ingredients of the offence. They are: 248. In this case, accused No.1 was the public servant

and he was working as Chief Manager of SPB, Gandhi

Nagar Branch. It is alleged that, he must have committed

breach of trust in respect of such property i.e. funds being

distributed or granted to the various borrowers. Therefore,

to constitute an offence, it is the obligation by the

prosecution to prove entrustment, which is the essential

requirement. 249. So far as offence under Sec.467 and 468 of IPC

are concerned, these sections speaks of forgery for the

purpose of cheating. These sections applies to those cases

where forgery has been committed for the purpose of

cheating. Forgery though a substantive offence, partakes of

the nature of an attempt. It is usually an act done in

furtherance of some other criminal design. If it can be

proved that, the purpose of the offender in committing the

forgery is to obtain property dishonestly, or, if his guilty

purpose comes within the definition of cheating, then only

he is punished under the present section. 192 Spl.CC No.171/2009 250. First of all, prosecution has to prove cheating

and cheating must complete and subsequent forgery. 251. Sec.471 speaks of using as of genuine, a forged

document. The object of this section is that, use of forged

document which is contemplated by Sec.471 of IPC. In such

a use as causes wrongful gain or wrongful loss. This

section applies to the case of person who appears before

some other person, or before a court with a document and

endeavours to induce that person or court to do some act

which he or it would not do if it was known to be a forgery.

Therefore, the prosecution is to prove the fraudulent or

dishonest use of document as genuine. It is not necessary

to constitute a forgery under Sec.463 of IPC that the

"property" with which it is intended that a false document

shall cause a person to part, should be in existence at the

time when the false documents was made. It must prove (i)

that the document was a forged one, (ii) That the accused

used such document, (iii) That he used it as a genuine one, (iv) that he knew, or had reason to believe, that it was a

forged one, (v) that he used it dishonestly or fraudulently. 193 Spl.CC No.171/2009 252. Thus, the onus on proving the offence under

Sec.471 lies on the prosecution. Therefore, whether

accused renders false explanation as to how he came into

possession of a allegedly forged document, it cannot be

used adversely against him to order for conviction under

this section. 253. So far as provisions of Sec.13 of the Prevention

of Corruption Act 1988 are concerned, they speak of

criminal misconduct by public servant. The said section

reads as under: Explanation 1.- A person shall be presumed to

have intentionally enriched himself illicitly if

he or any person on his behalf, is in possession

of or has, at any time during the period of his

office, been in possession of pecuniary

resources or property disproportionate to his

known sources of income which the public

servant cannot satisfactorily account for. Explanation 2.- The expression "known

sources of income" means income received

from any lawful sources.]

(2) Any public servant who commits criminal

misconduct shall be punishable with

imprisonment for a term which shall be not 195 Spl.CC No.171/2009 less than (four years) but which may extent to

 (ten years) and shall also be liable to fine. 254. Prosecution is under obligation to prove the

demand and acceptance of bribe which is a sinequonon for

invoking provisions of Sec.7 and 13 of the Prevention of

Corruption Act. If factum of demand of bribe and

acceptance there of is not established, then conviction

under Sec.13(2) would not also be sustainable. It so held by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in a judgment reported

in 2015(1) Crimes 130 SC in case between ( C. Sukumaran

Vs State of Kerala ). In so far as the offence under Sec.13(1) (d)(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act is concerned, the

public servant is said to commit the offence of a criminal

misconduct if he, by abusing his position as public servant

obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable

thing or pecuniary advantage. Therefore, it is required to

the prosecution to show (a) that pecuniary advantage

obtained by the accused (b) that said pecuniary advantage 196 Spl.CC No.171/2009 was obtained by the accused No.1on account of abuse of

position by him. 255. In so far as Sec.13(1)(d) of the Act is concerned,

the prosecution have to prove the essential ingredients,

they are: (a) That, he should be a public servant. (b) that he

should have used corrupt or illegal means, or otherwise

abused his position as a public servant and (c) That he

should have obtained a valuable thing or pecuniary

advantage for himself or for any other person. 256. These are the real requirements the prosecution

has to prove before the court to prove against the accused

persons in a case of present nature. 257. After recording statement under Sec.313 of

Cr.P.C., the accused No.1 submitted his written statement

under Sec.313(5) of Cr.P.C. and narrated the entire defence

in his statement. He specifically contends that, he was

transferred to the Specialized Personal Banking branch as

Chief Manager to open the branch which was a new

concept to provide exclusive service to personal segment 197 Spl.CC No.171/2009 customers, providing personal loans like Housing, Vehicle,

Education etc. He says that, said branch was opened in the

month of August 2003. The said branch has been awarded

as "Best Metro Branch' with A+ Audit Rating". NPA was nil

for 3 years. He admits about transactions with M/s Seven

Hill Properties and M/s Trishul Enterprises. But specifically

contends that, immediately after getting such information

about fake salary certificate have been presented by the

borrowers, sanctioning of the loan was stopped. He speaks

of role being played by him. On each aspect, he has given

his statement in his reply to Sec.313 statement. 258. Along with written statement, accused No.1 has

produced voluminous documents to show that, how far his

services were recognized by the Regional Office and he

was termed as 'aggressive banker'. Even he has submitted

control return statement showing the transactions being

entered into. According to him, he has not exceeded the

limits in that transactions. He has achieved target, which

was fixed by Regional Office within short span of time. 198 Spl.CC No.171/2009 259. I have scrupulously perused the written

statement of accused No.1 and the documents so produced

by him along with his statement. These documents show

the work being carried on by accused No.1 as a Chief

Manager of the said SPB, Gandhi Nagar Branch. Even the

auditors have observed that, to cope up the speed of this

accused No.1, additional staff is required to be posted to

the said branch. This fact is not denied by the prosecution. 260. He also stated about bills purchase. According to

him, he discounted "three bills" of M/s Seven Hills

Distilleries only once in a single day in his 3 years of

service in the branch to the extent of Rs.1.10 crores. He

states that, he has obtained prior oral permission from his

controller Sri. Venugopal and also submitted control return

wherein he has clearly mentioned that, oral permission was

obtained from AGM. The said Venugopal has not stated

anything about this discounting of bills by this accused

No.1 in his evidence on oath. There is no whisper about

that. In addition to personal guarantee, he has obtained

equitable mortgage of valuable property. 199 Spl.CC No.171/2009 261. Likewise, we find accused No.2 has filed his

written statement under Sec.243(1) of Cr.P.C. He statees

that, the capacity as partner of M/s Trishul Enterprises, the

accused No.6 as Managing Director of M/s Seven Hills

Properties Pvt. Ltd. i.e. Accused No.7, they had

transactions with the aforesaid bank. He says that apart

from acting as Director and Partner, concerning the

management of the companies, he had not been involved in

the day to day affairs of accused No.6 and 7 or in

conducting of the business of accused No.6 and 7, other

than as authorized signatory for bank transactions. They

used to conduct their business independently. He says that,

M/s Trishul Enterprises i.e. Accused No.6 and M/s Seven

Hills Properties Pvt. Ltd. i.e. accused No.7 had commenced

developing two real estate projects in the year 2004 and

2005 respectively. These projects were already launched by

some other company. P.W.101 Praveen and P.W.102

Venkatesh Reddy and P.W.103 Nagaraj were looking into

the administration work of the said companies. For

registration, he had accused No.3 Ajith Prasad Jain and 200 Spl.CC No.171/2009 also P.W.103 Nagaraj. He specifically states that, he was

instructed by his office to obtain the power of attorney for

some of the borrowers and took the title deeds from the

bank by repaying the loan. 262. With regard to M/s Seven Hills Distilleries is

concerned, he says that, it involved in import and sale of

food pulses including Canadian yellow Peas and Canadian

Chick Peas. Between 2004 and 2010, this company had

large volumes of business with M/s Meerams Overseas Pvt.

Ltd. Of which Sri. Ramesh, accused no.5 is the Managing

Director. He speaks of various documents such as

Ex.P.539(a) to 539(c). According to him, there was no

occasion to transport any grains from Chellakere to

Mangalore but from Mangalore godown to the industry of

accused No.5 in Mangalore. Therefore, all the other

allegations made by the prosecution against accused No.1

are false. He states that, he is the valued customer of the

bank. 263. Accused No.3 has filed his written statement. He

specifically contends that, it is in December 2005, he is 201 Spl.CC No.171/2009 informed about fraud committed by borrowers and agents

in respect of the income documents pertaining to

borrowers. Accused No.2 has informed them about several

loans pertaining to their layouts being fraudulently

obtained and that the documents relied on by several

borrowers were fabricated. They took steps for repayment

of the loan. They came to know that, agents have played

fraud by fabricating the records. As instructed by accused

No.2, they obtained Power of Attorney in their name from

some borrowers, repaid the loans and took return of the

title deeds. He admits that, few high valued cheques had

been discounted by the bank in his favour and favouring

accused No.6 and same was upon good faith and only after

obtaining a security to the extent of Rs.4 crores by the

bank as demanded by accused No.1. 264. Accused No.4 by filing his written statement,

specifically contends that, he was handling the

administration of the office of M/s Trishul Enterprises.

P.W.101 Praveen and P.W.102 Venkatesh Reddy were also

the staffs so appointed. He speaks of accompanying the 202 Spl.CC No.171/2009 customers to the layouts, registration of document in

respect of sites being proposed to be purchased by the

intending purchasers etc. On coming to know about the

transactions by obtaining loan by producing fake salary

certificate, he says that accused No.2 instructed him to

stop entertaining any borrowers through brokers and

asked them to directly deal with the borrowers. There was

no forgery of document by any of these accused persons. 265. Accused No.5 also has filed his written statement

contending that, he knows M/s Seven Hills Distilleries of

which the accused No.2 is the Managing Director. The said

company has been involved in import and sale of pulses

including Canadian yellow Peas between 2004 to 2010. His

company had purchased huge volumes of pulses from M/s

Seven Hills Distilleries. The lorry receipts so marked in this

case were brought to him for his signature, but he signed

them as consignee. 266. On scrupulous reading of these documentary

evidence produced by the accused persons, this M/s Seven

Hills Distilleries have maintained ledger account with M/s 203 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Meerams Overseas Pvt. Ltd., wherein, we find ING Vysya

bank the cheques were sent for collection. Even, E filing of

assessment was adopted by the accused persons to pay

commercial tax. There is no amibiguity in these documents

and these documents are not denied by the prosecution. 267. Relying upon respective statements of accused

No.1, and 2 to 5, it is submitted by the respective counsel

for accused No.1 and 2 to 7 that, there is no

misappropriation, there is no cheating, there is no

commission of the offences under the provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act . There is no forgery of any

documents by these accused persons. 268. On reading the entire evidence spoken to by the

witnesses, it can be stated that, defence of the accused

persons is, they have not committed any offence in the

manner alleged by the prosecution. 269. During the course of arguments, learned SPP has

relied upon some of the judgments reported in (2013) 2

SCC 162 in case of ( N.V. Subba Rao Vs State through 204 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Inspector of Police), (2009) 11 SCC 737 in case of ( R.

Venkatkrishnan Vs Central Bureau of Investigation ). 270. I have scrupulously perused the citations being

relied upon by the learned Special Public Prosecutor. With

regard to the principles laid down in the said judgments,

there is no dispute as such. It is settled principle of law

that, for the purpose of reading the conclusion, the court

can rely on a factual presumption. Each case must be

determined on its own facts. On going through the factual

details in the aforesaid documents, I am of the opinion that,

the said judgments are not helpful to the case of the

prosecution. I have already referred to the evidence by the

prosecution, particularly evidence of bank officials who

have come before the court to adduce their evidence.

Though they speak so many facts in their examination-in-

chief, but in the cross-examination, they have given clear

go bye. 271. Learned counsel for accused No.1 relied upon

the following judgments: 272. I also scrupulously perused the principles laid

down in the aforesaid judgments. In the first judgment 206 Spl.CC No.171/2009 relied upon by the counsel for accused No.1, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India has held as under: Existence of an intention to cheat at the

 time of making initial promise or

 formation of contract - Importance of and

 need to prove - Held, complainant is

 required to show that accused had

 fraudulent or dishonest intention at the

 time of making promise or representation - In the absence of culpable intention at

 the time of making initial promise, no

 offence is made out under S.420. - In present case, held, allowing of cheque

 discounting facility by bank officials to

 customers of Bank, without any criminal

 intent being proved, did not amount to

 commission of offence, particularly as 207 Spl.CC No.171/2009 facility allowed was not contrary to RBI

Guidelines - It could not therefore also be

said that there was meeting of minds in a

conspiracy to commit an offence, nor

could the act of corruption be inferred

from transactions between Bank and its

customers - Further, held, accused

officials might have been prosecuted

under S.409 but they were not charged

under this section - Their conviction

therefore set aside - Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988 - S.13(1)(d) - Banker and Customer - Cheque

discounting facility - Propriety of granting - RBI Guidelines. B. Penal Code, 1860 - Ss.409 & 405

and Ss.415 & 420 - Charges framed only

under Ss.415 & 420 - No charge famed

under S.409, though offence, if any, was

that under S.409 - Effect - Criminal 208 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Procedure Code, 1973 - Ss. 215, 216,

218, 221 & 222 - Criminal Trial - Charge - Improper charge - Effect. Appellant was a Branch Manager of

State Bank of India. He and some of his

colleagues were prosecuted under

Sections 415 and 420 read with Section

120-B IPC, and Section 13(1)(d) of the

Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, for

permitting discounting of local cheques

to some customers of the Bank. Accused

4 and 5 were bank officials while Accused

No.1 to 3 were private parties having

account with the Bank. The issues involved were whether the

bank officials and the customers had

entered into criminal conspiracy to

commit the offence of cheating against

the Bank under Sections 415 and 420 209 Spl.CC No.171/2009 IPC , and whether the accused persons

had obtained any illegitimate advantage,

warranting punishment under the Prevention of Corruption Act . Trial court convicted the accused

persons. High Court upheld their

conviction. The Supreme Court however

took note of the fact that there was no

evidence on record to prove that there

was an intention to cheat the Bank. On

the other hand, there was evidence on

record that appellant had stopped cheque

discounting facility and he had resumed it

only after verbal instructions from a

superior officer, PW 20. Moreover, the

bank officials appeared to have acted in

the overall interest of the Bank for the

purpose of promoting its business,

through there might have been some

irregularity in do so. Allowing the appeals, the Supreme

Court

Held: cheques were deposited after a gap of

one to four days; only later were the

amounts deposited in the account, which

circumstances are not sufficient to hold

the appellants guilty for commission of

offence under Sec.420 IPC as all the

actions on the part of the bank officers

were in consonance with the long- standing banking practice. (c) Accused 4 had taken care of having

adequate security to ensure that the bank

does not suffer any loss, the gain if any

was caused to the bank. (d) The appellants acted on instructions

by the higher authority. (e) The prosecution evidence does not

 establish any conspiracy on their part vis-

 a-vis Accused 1, 2 and 3. 273. So also it is held by Hon'ble Supreme Court in

case of SVL Murthy Vs State in the second judgment stated

supra about probative value of the evidence to be taken

into consideration while dealing with such cases. In the 3 rd

judgment relied upon by the counsel for accused No.1, it

speaks of the provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act and as well as how to prove the criminal misconduct etc. 274. In the 3rd judgment, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

of India have observed with regard to intra-departmental

correspondences. In this case, there were inter-

departmental and intra-departmental correspondences

were done between accused No.1 and his Head Office.

These judgments laid down essential ingredients to prove

the offences so made out against the accused persons. 275. Likewise, the counsel for accused No.2 to 7 also

relied upon the following judgments: In these judgments, the definition of forgery and as well as

other aspects have been discussed by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court of India. 276. In the first judgment at Para 17, the definition of

forgery is being stated. At Para 25, 28 and 29, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India have interpreted definition of false

document etc. For better appreciation, it is just and proper

to incorporate the provisions incorporated by Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India in this judgement 219 Spl.CC No.171/2009 25. Keeping in view the strict interpretation

of penal statue i.e. referring to rule of

interpretation wherein natural inferences

are preferred, we observe that a charge of

forgery cannot be imposed on a person who

is not the maker of the same. As held in

plethora of cases, making of a document is

different than causing it to be made. As

Explanation 2 to Sec.464 further clarifies

that, for constituting an offence under

Sec.464 it is imperative that a false

document is made and the accused person is

the maker of the same, otherwise the

accused person is not liable for the offence

of forgery. 26. The definition of "false document" is a

part of the definition of "forgery". Both must

be read together. "Forgery" and "fraud" are

essentially matters of evidence which could

be proved a fact by direct evidence or by 220 Spl.CC No.171/2009 inferences drawn from proved facts. In the

case in hand, there is no finding recorded by

the trial court that the respondents have

made any false document or part of the

document/record to execute mortgage deed

under the guise of that "false document". Hence, neither Respondent 1 nor

Respondent 2 can be held as makers of the

forged documents. It is the imposter who can

be said to have made the false document by

committing forgery. In such an event the

trial court as well as the appellate court

misguided themselves by convicting the

accused. Therefore, the High Court has

rightly acquitted the accused based on the

settled legal position and we find no reason

to interfere with the same. 28. In this case at hand, the imposter has

not been found or investigated into by the

officer concerned. Nothing has been spilled 221 Spl.CC No.171/2009 on the relationship between the imposter

and Respondent 1. Law is well settled with

regard to the fact that however strong the

suspicion may be, it cannot take the place of

proof. Always a duty is cast upon the courts

to ensure that suspicion does not take place

of the legal proof. In this case, the trial court

as well as the appellate court got carried

away by the fact that accused is the

beneficiary or the executant of the mortgage

deed, where the prosecution miserably failed

to prove the first transaction i.e. PoA as a

fraudulent and forged transaction. The

standard of proof in a criminal trial is proof

beyond reasonable doubt because the right

to personal liberty of a citizen can never be

taken away by the standard of

preponderance of probability. 29. This case on hand is a classic example of

poor prosecution and shabby investigation 222 Spl.CC No.171/2009 which resulted in the acquittal of the

accused. The investigating officer is

expected to be diligent while discharging his

duties. He has to be fair, transparent and his

only endeavour should be to find out the

truth. The investigating officer has not even

taken bare minimum care to find out the

whereabouts of the imposter who executed

the PoA. The evidence on record clearly

reveals that PoA was not executed by the

complainant and the beneficiary is the

accused, still the accused could not be

convicted. The laches in the lopsided

investigation goes to the root of the matter

and fatal to the case of prosecution. It this is

the coordination between the prosecution

and the investigating agency, every criminal

case tend to end up in acquittal. In the

process, the common man will lose

confidence on the criminal justice delivery 223 Spl.CC No.171/2009 system, which is not a good symptom. It is

 the duty of the investigating officer,

 prosecution as well as the courts to ensure

 that full and material facts and evidence are

 brought on record, so that there is no scope

 for miscarriage of justice. 277. It is laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of

India in the 3rd judgment that, to establish the forgery, it is

the bounden duty of prosecution to prove that, accused

participated in any manner in the act of forgery and that,

he had requisite mens rea when he presented it before the

concerned official to claim benefit. Therefore, actual

participation of accused in forgery is essential requirement

to prove the offence of forgery. 278. I have scrupulously perused the provisions laid

down in the afore said judgments. 279. On reading the entire allegations made by the

prosecution, the main allegation leveled against accused

No.1 are that, he wrongfully exceeded the limit of 224 Spl.CC No.171/2009 honouring cheques, discounting bills facility, granting of

house loans etc., which was extended to Accused No.2 to 5

and other borrowers by his branch. He accepted bills,

accepted fake salary particulars of the borrowers. 280. Taking up the first allegation against accused

No.1 that, he exceeded the discretionary limit of all the

discounted facility, granted loan exceeding discretionary

limits without due authorization from the Regional Office.

It is relevant to highlight that, accused No.1 has nowhere

denied that, he exceeded his discretionary limit. However,

he has very strongly defended his action on the ground

that monetary limits are violated as a matter of routine.

One of the main reason for this is that, there is too much

pressure on the branches to show good business/ profits.

Moreover, accused No.1 stated in his written statement so

submitted that, monthly reports were sent to the Regional

Office and this fact of violation of limit was all along in the

knowledge of Regional Office. It is directed to the official

witness of the bank in the cross-examination about

furnishing of control returns periodically by accused No.1 225 Spl.CC No.171/2009 and in turn, no comments were made by the Regional

Office. First, he was asked to stop purchasing of cheques,

bills etc. and also discounting of bills till the earlier

transactions are realized. 281. It is noticed from the evidence so placed on

record that, limits set by the bank are routinely exceeded

finds corroboration from the statement of official

witnesses of the bank so examined where details were

given regarding various transactions and which the limit

put by the bank had been exceeded and this practice was

in vogue, even after accused No.1 left the SPB Branch,

Gandhinagar, Bengaluru. 282. In the opinion of this court, what was sought to be

shown by referring to the statement of accused No.1 and

other witnesses of the Bank, was the fact that the non-

adherence of a bank limit is a normal practice, and, hence

it cannot be termed as illegal as it is sought to be resorted

to achieve the projected targets of the business of the

bank. 283. After examining the records so placed on record by

the prosecution and other documents so placed, where the

similar instances have been mentioned even after accused

No.1 has left the said branch. I am of the view that, it can

be termed as an irregularity and not an act tentamounting

criminal act so as to draw an inference against accused

No.1 about the perpetration of the alleged offences against

him especially, when viewed in the light of catagoric

statement of accused No.1 to the effect that, control

returns i.e. monthly progress report were sent to the

Regional Office and they had the knowledge of the bank

limit having been exceeded. 284. Other allegations against accused No.1 are that, he

violated while allowing the discounting of bills/ cheque

facility, relied upon fake lorry numbers etc. From the

evidence of the bank officials discussed above, it is not

possible to conclude that, accused No.1 had any dishonest

intention or mens rea and he abused his official position

while accepting such cheques/ discounting bills etc.

Circular of the bank, guidelines so issued from time to time 227 Spl.CC No.171/2009 by the Head Office/ Regional Office show that, stipulation

of accepting cheque purchaser, bills discounting was

permissible. 285. The evidence so recorded by the prosecution

nowhere mentions about the connivance of accused No.1

with other accused No.2 to 5, 6 and 7 respectively. Had

there been any degree of conspiracy between the accused

persons as alleged by the prosecution in this case, the

same would have been reflected in the evidence of the

witnesses especially the evidence of P.W.1 to P.W.11 so

recorded in this case. The allegations that, fake salary

certificates are accepted by accused No.1 and there was

conspiracy amongst accused persons interse etc. are not

proved for the simple reason that, no evidence is placed on

recored by the prosecution that, it is of these accused

persons, who have allegedly forged the said documents.

The authors of the salary certificates are not cited as

witnesses. The witnesses so examined to speak about that,

fake salary certificates have deposed that, at the relevant

time, they were not the authorities who were authorized to 228 Spl.CC No.171/2009 issue salary certificates. The crucial evidence that, these

accused persons have connived and conspired with each

other and had forged the said documents is missing in this

case. We cannot forget that the burden is on the

prosecution to prove the guilt beyond all reasonable doubt.

It there is a slighter doubt, the benefit of the same would

certainly go to the accused. 286. The evidence of I.O. i.e. P.W.125 shows that, all the

loans sanctioned by accused No.1 have been recovered by

the bank and the bank has not sustained any monetary

loss. This evidence of P.W.125 falsifies the very basic case

of the prosecution. Confirmation of the fact that, the entire

loan so granted is recovered itself proves that accused

No.1 had no intention to cheat the bank. 287. More so, in this case, there is no proof that, in any

instances cited, the banks interest has suffered or that any

loss has occurred to the bank. Further, there is no proof

that, he had failed to discharge his duties with integrity,

honesty and devotion. All but one of the charge relate to

his action of exceeding limit. In the absence of any loss to 229 Spl.CC No.171/2009 the bank or that, accused has gained any pecuniary

advantage or that he had not given sufficient devotion to

the working of the bank, it cannot be brought under

allegation of misconduct. As pointed out earlier, in the

course of years in which accused No.1 was the Chief

Manager of the said branch, he has granted number of

loans, did so many transactions, collected crores of

deposits, termed as "aggressive banker". There was

appreciation by his superiors. It shows his involvement in

the improvement of the business of the bank. There is no

allegation of excess facility provided, but they cannot be

termed as indiscriminate exercise of discretion. 288. Accused No.1 to 5 independently have submitted

their respective explanations for each of the charge made

against them after recording their respective statements.

Accused No.1 has produced documents along with his

statements. 289. As seen earlier, accused No.1 has stated that, there

have been procedural lapses and over enthusiasm

exhibited by him in order to build deposit of funds of the 230 Spl.CC No.171/2009 SPB branch. The development of the branch and growth

has already been submitted. The charge against him is

that, he has failed to protect the interest of the bank and

failed to discharge his duties with utmost integrity, honesty,

devotion and diligence. Nowhere accused No.1 has

admitted that, he has committed misconduct on those lines.

The plea of technical lapse cannot be construed as

admission of guilt in reference to the conduct of the officer.

This assumes importance because even according to the

prosecution, it is concerned with his exceeding the limit of

discretion, though no monetary loss on that account, but

only by conduct of officer. Mere conjunctures or surmises

cannot sustain the finding of guilt. The charges leveled

against Accused No.1 for the alleged offences have not

been proved by concrete material so as to hold him guilty.

What is alleged is duly deviation in procedural matters, the

same cannot under any stretch of imagination could be

construed to mean commission of alleged offences. 290. The learned counsel for accused No.1 would submit

that, power and limit of Manager to purchase bills, cheques 231 Spl.CC No.171/2009 is not restricted to Rs.4 lacs as spoken to by the witnesses,

for prosecution. The limit prescribed is only of advisory in

nature, based upon the credibility of the account holder the

branch can exceed the limit prescribed and intimate the

same to the higher authorities. 291. In this case, accused No.2 was the valued customer,

who has brought substantive deposits as a Minister at the

relevant time. Accused No.2 to 5 were extended with the

facility of discounting the bills. Accused No.1 in his reply

has given explanations and has assigned reasons for the

purchase of bills/ cheques. Equitable mortgages created by

the borrowers towards housing loans are genuine

transactions. Since all the borrowers have signed their

respective loan applications, furnished relevant documents,

got executed sale deeds in their favour, some borrowers

have repaid the loan amount to the bank etc, as is spoken

to by them in their cross-examination, would destroy the

prosecution case. 292. To make out case of cheating, as discussed above,

the ingredients of deception at the inception are required. 232 Spl.CC No.171/2009 As far as this case is concerned, except the excessive

exercise of discretion by extending the facility of

discounting of bills and cheque purchases, a bonafide belief

that, they are genuine transactions. I do not find any

element of culpability on the part of accused No.1 in

particular and accused No.2 to 5 in general, who in their

written statement so filed have stated and have submitted

that, the control returns periodically shows how and under

what circumstances he extended the facility to accused

No.2 to 5. The intra-departmental and inter-departmental

correspondences clearly show that the Regional Office was

aware of the transactions that have been carried out by

SPB Branch, wherein accused No.1 was the Chief manager.

The periodical audits have taken place. The auditors have

appreciated the work of accused No.1 and called him as

"aggressive banker". There was an advise to provide more

staff to cope up with the speed of accused No.1. 293. The prosecution records are bulky and plumpy,

both oral and documentary. I have scrupulously went

through the same repeatedly. But the same did not attract 233 Spl.CC No.171/2009 the ingredients of Sections 120-B , 409 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 of IPC and Sec.13(2) r/w Sec.13(1)(d) of P.C. Act. In other

words, the oral and documentary evidence is in high

quantity, but not in high quality. Therefore, in my opinion

the prosecution has utterly failed to connect accused No.1

to 7 with the alleged offences. 294. The criminal jurisprudence of our country

contemplates that, in a criminal cases, even if ninety nine

accused are escaped from criminal liability, not even a

single innocent should be punished. 295. This is not a case to be decided on the principle of

preponderance of probability. But it has to be proved

beyond all reasonable doubt. Reading of the entire

prosecution material would go to show that the prosecution

has laid its foundation on the principle of preponderance of

probability which has no relevance which dealing with a

case arising out of the provisions of IPC and P.C. Act. In the

case on hand, the prosecution has been unsuccessful in

bringing home the guilt of the accused No.1 to 7 to the hilt.

The above discussion of the oral and documentary 234 Spl.CC No.171/2009 evidence, clearly establishes that, the prosecution failed to

bring home the guilt of the accused beyond all reasonable

doubt. Therefore, Accused No.1 to 7 are entitled for

acquittal by giving benefit of doubt. Therefore, I record my

findings on the above points in the negative. 296. Point No.2:- As a result of my foregoing

discussion and reasons stated thereon, accused persons

are entitled for acquittal. Accordingly, I proceed to pass

the following:- Ex.P.4 A letter dated 17.9.2005 addressed by AGM­IV
Ex.P.5 Letter dated 27.9.2005 by AGM
Ex.P.6 Letter dated 17.11.2005 addressed to the SPB Branch
Ex.P.7 Note dated 4.11.2006
Ex.P.8 to Are the files maintained by the SPB Branch
131
Ex.P.132 to Cheque purchase documents containing challans,
138 transfer debit vouchers. Ex.P.139 to Receipt memo dated 11.6.2009 containing particulars
146 of documents being collected showing credit challans
 dated 30.5.2005. Ex.P.147, Receipt memo and account opening forms of various
147(a) to (l) account holders
Ex.P.148 Receipt memo with control returns intimating the
 regional office regarding sanctioning loans
Ex.P.149 Document containing deposit of title deeds in respect
 of Seven Hills Properties Limited
Ex.P.150 A document issued by region no.IV, SBM, Bengaluru
 Zone regarding SBM Loan Utsav. Ex.P.150(a) Shows that SBM Loan Utsav was arranged for a
 housing loan and the loan going to be sanctioned was 241 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Rs.15,00,000/­ with interest rate at the rate of 7.25%,
 car loan to the extent of 3.5 lakhs with rate of interest
 at the rate of 7.75%. Ex.P.151 Chief Manager's letter dated 30.12.2005 addressed to
 SPB Branch
Ex.P.152 Audit report commencing from 4.8.2003 to
 30.12.2005. Ex.P.153 Management letter dated 28.1.2007 showing
 acknowledgment of RO Sanctions
Ex.P.154 Audit report. Ex.P.155 A document containing verification employment and
 salary certificates dated 13.6.2009
Ex.P.156 A letter showing confirmation of the employment and
 Salary particulars of the borrowers. Ex.P.157 Confirmation of employment and salary particulars
 dated 3.9.2006 regarding 28 borrowers. Ex.P.158 The letter regarding confirmation of employment and
 salary particulars of 50 borrowers
Ex.P.159 The sport verification memo/mahazar conducted
 pertaining to this case. Ex.P.160 Spot panchanama conducted by the I.O in the
 presence of panchas along with revenue officials in
 respect of Sy.No.228/2 measurung 1 acre 32 guntas of
 Bananduru village. Ex.P.161 Spot panchanama in respect of Sy.No.60 and 70 of
 Singapura village. Ex.P.162 Joint Account opening form of accused no.2 to 4.
Ex.P.163 Certificate u/s.2(a) of Bankers Book of Evidence Act
 with statement of account of M/s.Trishul Enterises
 maintained by Gandhi Nagar Branch. Ex.P.164 Account opening Form of Accused no.2
Ex.P.165 Statement of account of Seven Hills Properties
 maintained by Gandhi Nagara Branch 242 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Ex.P.166 Copy of Account Opening Form in the name of
 Accused no.2
Ex.P.167 Certificate under Bankers Books of Evidence Act with
 statement of accounts standing in the name of
 accused no.2. Ex.P.168 The copy of Account Opening form in the name of
 Accused no.2. Ex.P.169 Certificate and statement of account standing in the
 name of accused no.2 showing various deposits in his
 account. Ex.P.170 Account opening form in the name of Accused no.4
 Hanumappa Reddy. Ex.P.171 Certificate under Banker's Books of Evidence Act
Ex.P.172 Current account Opening form in the name of accused
 no.2. Ex.P.173 Certificate with Statement of Account in the name of
 Seven Hills Distillaries Private Limited
Ex.P.174 Account Opening Form in the name of
 P.K.Chandrashekhar
Ex.P.175 Certificate with statement of account in respect of
 Chandrashekhar.B.K
Ex.P.176 The account opening form in the name of accused
 no.3
Ex.P.177 Head Office official visit register.
Ex.P.178 to Cheque purchase registers. 180
Ex.P.181 to Housing loan circulars issued by the bank.
189
Ex.P.190 & It is the empenlment of valuers­approved list.
191
Ex.P.192 Bill Register showing credit facility limit. Ex.P.193 Cashier's receipt day book. Ex.P.194 to These are the letter of request dated 15.9.2005, 243 Spl.CC No.171/2009 196 30.9.2005 respectively. Ex.P.197 Copy of the circular showing scheme of delegation of
 financial powers addressed to all the officers of the
 bank. Ex.P.198 A letter addressed by State Bank of Mysure Division­
 IV, Bengaluru Zone to the Chief Manager, SPB,
 Gandhi Nagar Branch dated 5.1.2006 with regard to
 cheque purchases and deviations in sanction of loans.
Ex.P.199 Is the document showing guidelines regarding
 discount and purchase of bills­purchase of telegraphic
 transfers­securing doubtful bills. Ex.P.200 It is a reply given by SPB, Region­IV with regard to
 control returns submitted in respect of DHL Limits,
 sanctioned to various borrowers
Ex.P.201 A letter addressed by SBM Region - IV, Bengaluru
 Zone
Ex.P.202 A letter dated 5.1.2006
Ex.P.203 A letter addressed to the DGM, Bengaluru Zone
Ex.P.204 to Are the Demand Drafts submitted by accused no.2 for
211 encashment. Ex.P.212 to Cheques. 263
Ex.P.264 to They are the letters addressed to AGM and others
271 regarding availment of housing loans by various
 borrowers and also addressing letters to various
 authorities like BWSSB, South Western Railways etc.
Ex.P.272 Verification report on the House Building Loan
 sanctioned from 1.1.2005 by Gandhi Nagara Branch.
Ex.P.273 A letter of undertaking by accused no.2 to 4 on behalf
 of M/s.Trishul Enterprises
Ex.P.274 Is the letter of undertaking on behalf of Trishul
 Enterprises signed by Accused no.4
Ex.P.275 to These are the seizure memos of various documents by
292 the I.O during investigation. Ex.P.293 to Are the documents collected by the I.O from HAL,
301 BWSSB. Ex.P.302 to Letter, pay slip, salary slip etc, issued by KSRTC
310 showing the pay particulars of these employees.
Ex.P.311 Death certificate of Ahesha who died on 7.11.2007.
Ex.P.312 to Are the Form No.16, Salary Certificate, Pay Slip of
333 various employees who borrowed loan from Gandhi
 Nagara Branch
Ex.P.334 Is the cheque dated 16.12.2004 in the name of
 Chamundi.M for Rs.11,500/­ signed by Partners of
 Trishul Enterprises. It is a case of the prosecution that
 Chamundi.M being the nominal borrower was paid
 with Rs.11,500/­ as a commission towards raising of
 loan in his name to help the Trishul Enterprises. But
 this PW46 Chamundi have been turned hostile and
 specifically states that he has not stated before the I.O
 marked as Ex.P.335, 335(a) to (c). Ex.P.336 Is the absolute Sale Deed executed in favour of
 Smt.Mary Stephens by Andanappa and V.N.Ajith
 Prasad Jain i.e. accused no.3. It is accompanied with Encumbrance Certificates as
 per Ex.P.336(a) and (b)
Ex.P.337 It is a letter addressed by the BEML Limited to the I.O
Ex.P.338 It is a statement of PW58 Sri.Firoz Pasha. He has
 been turned hostile. Likewise PW59 N.V.Thirumala
 Reddy, PW60 Mohammed Amanulla, PW61
 S.N.Velayudhan have been turned hostile. They say
 that they have not stated before the I.O as per
 Ex.P.339, 339(a), (b), (c), 340, 340(a), (b) and (c),
 341 respectively. Ex.P.342 Letter addressed by ING Vysya to the I.O regarding
 M/s.Trishul Enterprises, M/s.Seven Hills Properties
 and M/s.Seven Hills Distillaries Limited.
Ex.P.342(a) Is a register of bills purchased by ING Vysya Bank
Ex.P.342(c), Are the documents prepared at the time of 245 Spl.CC No.171/2009 (b) and (d) discounting the bills and also receipt of cheque etc.
Ex.P.342(g) Is a certificate u/s.2(A) of Bankers Books Evidence Act
 for having issued the Accounts Extract. Ex.P.343 Another letter addressed by ING Vysya, Challakere
 Branch to the I.O
Ex.P.344 Is Current Account Opening Form in the name of
 accused no.2. Ex.P.344(a) Is the statement of Account being maintained by ING
 Vysya in the name of accused no.2
Ex.P.345 Is the account extract maintained by ING Vysya in the
 name of accused no.5
Ex.P.346 Is the copy of the register of cheques returned by ING
 Vysya
Ex.P.347 to They are the cheques in the name of Seven Hills
358 Properties and others for various consideration.
Ex.P.359 It is the Account Opening Form in the name of
 Accused no.2, State Bank of Mysuru, Challakere
 Branch. Ex.P.362 to These are the certificate with document sent for
374 realization of Hundis
Ex.P.375 Is a DD in the name of Accused no.5 for
 Rs.73,60,000/­. Ex.P.376 It is the registers showing the telegraphic transfers
 payable. Relevant entry is Ex.P.376(a).
Ex.P.377 It is the postage book and relevant entries are
 Ex.P.377(a) and (b). Ex.P.378 It is the letter addressed by RTO, Mangalore dated
 31.3.2009 furnishing the extracts of vehicles as per
 Ex.P.378(a) to (h). Ex.P.379 Is a register maintained by Mangalore Road Lines for
 having arranged vehicles to various destinations 246 Spl.CC No.171/2009 Ex.P.380 to Is the blank letter head of Mangalore Road Lines,
382 Ex.P.381 is the letter issued by RTO to the I.O
 furnishing B extract of vehicles bearing number KA­
 20­322, KA­20­2768, KA­20­8632 and KA­20­3768
 respectively. Is the B extract of three wheeler.
Ex.P.383 It is the valuation report prepared by K.Thammaiah
 and Associates being the Chartered Engineers and
 registered valuers dated 9.7.2009 furnishing the
 valuation with extent of the site being developed by
 Seven Hills Properties Private Limited in the name of
 11 persons who are the intending purchasers of the
 said sites. Ex.P.384 & Ex.P.384 is the letter addressed by Asst. Registrar of
385 Companies with regard to the registration of
 M/s.Seven Hills Properties Private Limited and
 M/s.Seven Hills Distillaries and Minerals Private
 Limited dated 19.2.2009. Ex.P.385 is the certificate of incorporation of the
 aforesaid companies with necessary documents.

Ex.P.386 It is a letter issued by Asst. Registrar of Companies
 stating that M/s.Meerarms Overseas Private Limited is
 a registered company. Ex.P.387 Is the certificate of incorporation of Meerarms Agro
 Foods Private Limited with necessary documents.
Ex.P.388 Is a letter issued by Bengaluru, Mysure Infrastructure
 coridor area planning authority addressed to I.O
 furnishing approved layout for an extent of 24 acres,
 32 guntas of Survey number 209/2, 228/2 and 229 of
 Banandur village, Bidadi Hobli, Ramanagara Taluk
 and Sy.No.18/1, 18/2, 18/3, 13/3 and 19 of
 Kallugopanahalli village in the said Ramanagara
 District with revised layout issued by BMRDA in
 respect of the aforesaid land. Ex.P.389 Is a document issued by Bengaluru Mahanagara
 Development Authority dated 4.8.2005 assigning site
 numbers in the sites formed at Kallugopanahalli 247 Spl.CC No.171/2009 village in Sy.No.18/1, 2, 3, 13/3, 5 and 19 in a total
 extend of land of 15 acres 27 guntas. Defence has not
 denied these documents. Ex.P.390 to Are the copies of the Sale Deeds being execued to the
394 various purchasers of the sites. All these Sale Deeds
 are the registered Sale Deeds. Ex.P.395 & Are the statements of PW78 Mohammed Khasim and
396 79 Hanumanthaiah who have been turned hostile.
Ex.P.397 to Are the legal opinion files furnished by the advocate
400 on penal. Ex.P.401 to Cheques. 406
Ex.P.407 to These are the photographs being taken by the I.O at
414 the time of spot inspection. Ex.P.415 to Are the RTC extracts of Sy.No.18, 19 of
417 Kallugopanahalli, Sy.No.228 of Banandur village
 respectively. Ex.P.418 to Are the photographs have been taken at the time of
437 investigation by the I.O. Ex.P.438 & Are the RTC extract of Sy.No.60 and 70 of Singapura
439 village. Name of accused no.5 is appearing.
Ex.P.440 Is a letter signed by I.O for having received Ex.P.438
 and 439. Ex.P.441 Is a receipt memo signed by I.O for having received
 the RTC extracts of Sy.No.60 and 70 of Singapura
 village. Ex.P.442 to Are the photographs taken by the I.O at the time of
460 investigation showing the vacant land.
Ex.P.461 Is a letter issued by Bengaluru Electric Supply
 Company to the I.O
Ex.P.462 Is a letter addressed by the Karnataka State Pollution
 Control Board
Ex.P.463 Is the layout plan in respect of Sy.No.60, 60/2, 61, 62,
 70, 71, 72/2 of Singapura Garden City, Abbigere 248 Spl.CC No.171/2009 village signed by Commissioner, City Municipality,
 Byatarayanapura. Ex.P.464 Account Opening Form with Dena Bank by one
 Mohammed Nasir Siddique with affidavit and other
 documents. Ex.P.465 It is a document issued by Dena Bank showing
 inability to make payment of enclosed cheque which
 was sent for collection with collection schedule as per
 Ex.P.466 standing in the name of Accused no.4.
Ex.P.467 A letter issued by Dena Bank with ledger extract in
 respect of Mohammed Nasir Siddique
Ex.P.468 Is a letter issued by Bengaluru Metropolitan Region
 Development Authority dated 12.7.1999
Ex.P.468(a) Are the Plan and applications.
to(g)
Ex.P.469 Is the seizure memo with description of documents
 prepared by I.O while seizing Ex.P.468(a) to (g).
Ex.P.470 It is a letter addressed to CBI sent by HSR Layout
 Branch of State Bank of Mysuru
Ex.P.471 Cheque for Rs.38,00,000/­ issued in the name of
 accused no.2. Ex.P.472 Cheque, in the name of Accused no.2 for
 Rs.3,00,000/­. Ex.P.473 to A letter addressed by IDBI Bank to the I.O furnishing
476 cheque, account opening form in the name of
 Narayana Rao and a certificate of a banker and
 account extract. Ex.P.477, A letter addressed by Kempegowda Pattana
477(a) to(f), Souhardha Sahakari Bank Niyamitha, Tumkur
and 478,
478(a)
Ex.P.479 to Account Opening Form issued by Hoysala Credit Co­
482 operative Society Limited, Chellakere in the name of
 D.Sudhakar, Statement of account and three cheques
 in the name of Trishul Enterprises and 249 Spl.CC No.171/2009 K.V.Hanumappa Reddy­Accused no.4 respectively.
Ex.P.483 Portion of a statement of Kachera Nagaraja examined
 as PW103. He states that he has not stated before the
 I.O as per Ex.P.483, 483(a), 483(b) and 483(c).
Ex.P.484 A letter addressed by the Karnataka State Co­
 operative Apex Bank Limited to the I.O
Ex.P.485 Is the receipt memo having received the documents by
 the I.O
Ex.P.486 to Are the Account Opening Form belongs to Accused
489 no.2 with Kolara Grameena Bank and one
 B.N.Prakash Reddy. Ex.P.490 A letter addressed by ING Vysya Bank dated 5.1.2009
 addressed to I.O furnishing in all 15 documents.
Ex.P.491 Account opening form in the name of Accused no.1
 with ING Vysya Bank. Ex.P.492 Cheque for Rs.9,60,000/­ in the name of Accused no.2
 dated 7.5.2005. Ex.P.493 A receipt memo having received three documents i.e.
 Account Opening Form as per Ex.P.494 in the name
 of J.P.Narayana Swamy, Ex.P.495 cheque in the name
 of accused no.2 Sudhakar for Rs.17,73,000/­.
Ex.P.496 Statement of account of Narayana Swamy maintained
 with SBM, Sira Branch. Ex.P.497 Is receipt memo issued by CBI having received five
 documents from Sri.Anil a Photographer.
Ex.P.498 to Are the letter addressed by Vijaya Bank, Shivamogga,
509 DD for Rs.5,00,000/­ in the name of Trishul
 Enterprises, Pay in slips, cheques in the name of
 accused no.2, 4 and 7 respectively. And deposit
 account opening form in the name of H.B.Manjunath,
 statement of account respectively. Ex.P.510 to Account opening form in the name of Hanumappa
511 Reddy i.e. accused no.4 with ING Vysya Bank with
 form no.61 in his name. Ex.P.512 to Copy of account opening form in th name of accused
514 no.4 with ING Vysya Bank, Statement of account and
 a cheque in the name of Trishul Enterprises for
 RS.13,50,000/­ respectively. Ex.P.515 to Certificate issued under Bankers Books of Evidence
517 Act, Statement of Account and bunch of twelve
 cheques respectively in the name of D.Sudhakar
 accused no.2 and Trishul Enterprises. Ex.P.518 Copy of the bill register being maintained by ING
 Vysya Bank
Ex.P.519 Receipt memo issued by I.O for having received three
 documents from Dena Bank Pathrenahalli Branch,
 Chikkaballapura. Ex.P.520 A letter received by the I.O from RTO,
 Chikkamangaluru with B­Register Extract of vehicle
 Ex.P.521 Auto rickshaw Cab standing in the name of
 M/S.Swamy with other particulars. Ex.P.522 Warrant to search issued by 21 st Addl. City Civil and
 Sessions Judge and Special Judge for CBI Cases
Ex.P.523 to Are the letters addressed by BWSSB Karnataka State
528 Pollution Board, BMTC furnishing information to I.O
Ex.P.529 to Letter addressed by Accounts Officer Sena Base work
538 shop, Bengaluru, BMTC with Salary particulars of
 Puttaswamy.H.T, Rajendra.K, letter addressed by
 DGM, HR, Bikenar Wala Foods Private Limited with
 copy of Salary particulars of Mohan Kumar Belvadi. A
 letter addressed by the BESCOM to the I.O about
 furnishing Salary particulars of Abdul Hakeem with
 receipt memo isseud by I.O respectively.
Ex.P.539, Documents pertaining to bill of sales addressed to
539(a) to (l) M/s.Meerarms Overseas Private Limited towards
 supply of Canadian Yellow peas worth Rs.34,50,000/­.
Ex.P.540 The specimen signature of Prasad, S/o.Narayana a
 partner of Mangaluru Road Lines at Sl.No.1 to 56.
Ex.P.541 Opinion of Scientific Examiner, NABL accredited 251 Spl.CC No.171/2009 laboratory i.e. office of question documents direct ove
 it of Forensic Science, Hyderabad. Ex.P.542 Is the Covering letter enclosing opinion of Scientific
 Examiner
Ex.P.543 to FIR, Search list record by I.O, mahazar dated
548 10.3.2008
Ex.P.549 to Statement of Accounts standing in the name of
551 accused no.4. Ex.P.552 Particulars of employee details of SPB Branch, Gandhi
 Nagara and their respective periods worked in the
 said branch
Ex.P.553 Verification report submitted by C.A.Balasubramanya
 showing confirmation by the employers. Ex.P.554 A letter addressed by the I.O dated 12.6.2009 to the
 I.O
Ex.P.555 A circular issued by SBM, Head Office showing festival
 offer for Dasara as Deepavali
Ex.P.556 It is a letter dated 30.4.2009 addressed to I.O by
 Vigilance department of SBM, enclosing the letters to
 position of House Building Accounts, Developer wise,
 received from the AGM Region­IV. Ex.P.557 It is a list of particulars of documents received by the
 I.O styled as receipt memo. Ex.P.558 Is a layout copy of revised residential layout in
 Sy.No.18/1, 2,3, 13/3, 5 and 19 of Kallugopanahalli
 village
Ex.P.559 It is the revised residential layout plan in
 Sy.No.209/1, 209/2, 228/2 and 229 of Banandur
 village and Sy.Nos.18/1, 18/2, 18/3, 13/3, 13/5 and
 19 of Kallugopanahalli village. Ex.P.560 Receipt memo dated 7.5.2009 prepared by the I.O for
 having received 9 documents from Gandhi Nagara
 Branch
Ex.P.561 Is a letter addressed to I.O by the BBMP regarding 252 Spl.CC No.171/2009 plan approval. Ex.P.562 Is a letter addressed by the Govt. of Karnataka officer
 of the Senior Sub Registrar, Yalahanka furnishing
 Encumbrance Certificate in respect of Sy.No.60 of
 Singapura village. Ex.P.563 Is an Endorsement issued by BBMP certifying about
 the pay particulars of R.Vijay Kumari. Ex.P.564 Is a letter addressed by HAL dated 23.8.2008
 furnishing Salary particulars of one Mr.Jayaraj and
 Jagabandhu. Ex.P.565 Is a letter issued by Divisional Controler, KSRTC to the
 I.O stating that the Salary slips have not been issued
 by his office and Form No.16 are not available in his
 office. Ex.P.566 Is a letter of BMTC addressed to I.O enclosing the
 certified photocopy of original salary slip issued to its
 employees for investigation. Ex.P.566(a) is the BMTC
 pay slip. Ex.P.567 Is a letter addressed by South Western Railway dated
 30.1.2009 to the I.O regarding verification of records
 in respect of employees by name Smt.Moshina Banu,
 Akram Ali Beig, Firoz Pasha who are not the
 employees with designation mentioned by them while
 availing loan. Particulars regarding one Sachidananda and
 K.Hanumappa is also given. Ex.P.567(a) is a salary
 certificate of Hanumappa and others. Ex.P.568 Is a letter addressed by South Western Railways dated
 9.7.2009 addressed to I.O regarding investigation so
 did in respect of its employees. This document is
 accompanied with Ex.P.568(a) documents such as
 copies of pay slips and form no.16. Ex.P.569 Is a letter addressed by BMTC Depot No.8 of
 Yashwanthpura Bengaluru dated 7.7.2009 regarding
 investigation of Salary slip of Driver by name John
 Rose. Ex.P.570 Is a letter addressed by HAL to the I.O dated 7.7.2009
 regarding investigation of Pay Role in respect of
 Employee by name S.Ramesh along with pay
 particulars as per Ex.P.570(a). Ex.P.571 A letter from Indian Computer Corportion (ICC)
 regarding investigation stating that the Director
 Indian Computer Corporation Private Limited does
 not belong to their firm. Ex.P.572 Is a letter addressed by Foreman Training Institute
 mentioning the names of Employees by name N.Ravi,
 B.H.Mallikarjuna, Mrs.S.Mangala Gowri, B.R.Rajendra
 Kumar Singh, Aralumallige Basavachar Suguna
 Murthy, Permi Jayaramulu, Smt.K.Vijaya and
 Dasarahalli Kamalamurthy. Ex.P.573 Is a receipt memo issued by I.O for having received in
 all 37 documents. Ex.P.574 Is the statement of account in the name of accused
 no.3 with Gandhi nagar Branch. Ex.P.574(a) is the
 certificate. Ex.P.575 Is the statement of account in respect of Account
 Number 98644406262. The amount debited is
 Rs.34,40,000/­. Ex.P.575(a) is the certificate.
Ex.P.576 Is a letter addressed by Regional Office to the Gandhi
 Nagara Branch dated 28.2.2005 with regard to
 Control Returns. Ex.P.577 Is the statement of account of Karnataka State Co­
 operative Apex Bank Limited, Chitradurga Branch for
 the period commencing from 1.6.2005 to 30.6.2005.
Ex.P.578 Is the deposit account opening form in respect of
 Albert Rose India Limited with ABN AMRO Bank in
 the name of Manjunath P Biddahalli,
 K.V.Madhusudana and D.Sudhakar. It is accompanied
 with a cheque for Rs.50,00,000/­ as per Ex.P.578(a).
Ex.P.579 Is a letter addressed by ING Vysya Bank to the I.O
 dated 9.1.2009 responding to notice u/s.91 of Cr.P.C 254 Spl.CC No.171/2009 accompanying with certificate and statement of
 accounts of M/s.Meerarms Overseas Private Limited
 for the period from 7.8.2006 to 10.8.2006.
Ex.P.580 Is a letter addressed by Catholic Co­operative Urban
 Bank Limited, Sikandarabad to the I.O furnishing
 copies of statement of B.Balasundara Reddy and
 Smt.P.Arogya Mary having transactions with Trishul
 Enterprises. Ex.P.581 Is the certificate issued by SBM, Kollegala Branch with
 cheque in the name of Hanumappa Reddy­accused
 no.4 as per Ex.P.581(a) and cheque collection
 schedule with account opening form in the name of
 M.S.Jagadish Kumar with statement of account.
Ex.P.582 Is the Pay in slip for Rs.50,00,000/­. It shows lean
 over housing loan of M/s.South Western Railways.
Ex.P.583 Pay in slip with transfer debit vouchers, certificate and
 statement of account standing in the name of Seven
 hills properties limited. Ex.P.584 Pay in slip, transfer debit voucher, certificate and
 statement of account of Seven Hills properties private
 limited. Ex.P.585 Is the receipt memo issued by CBI for having received
 28 documents. Ex.P.586 Is the valuation report of a residential layout (under
 construction) in sy.no.18/1 to 3, 13/3, 5 and 19 of
 Kallugopanahalli village. Ex.P.587 to Are the five cheques, six cheques and four cheques
589 respectively submitted to Gandhi Nagara Branch for
 encashment. Documents exhibited by the defence/accused. -

Ex.D.1 Is the office order dated 25.6.2007 regarding
 constitution of the advisory board on bank,
 commercial and financial frauds. Ex.D.2 Is a circular issued by vigilence commission with
 regard to determination of fraud. Ex.D.3 Is the performance report of accused no.1. appreciating the exceeding of the budgetary goals in
 all the three parameters they are deposits, advance
 and profit under the leadership of accused no.1. marked in evidence when PW17 was under cross
 examination. Ex.D.9 Form No.16 so found in Ex.P.110. Ex.D.10 & 11 Are the statements of PW40 and 41.
Ex.D.12 Relevant portion of evidence of PW70
Ex.D.13 & 14 Are the portion of the statement marked at the time of
 recoding evidence of PW70. List of Material Objects marked by the prosecution:--