CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals Nos.	 192
of 1961 and 183 of 1962. Appeals	 from the judgment and orders dated August 11,	1961
of the Calcutta High Court in Criminal Appeals Nos. 360 of
1959 and 345 of 1959 respectively. WITH
Criminal Appeals Nos. 41 of 1964 and 42 of 1964.
Appeals by special leave from the judgment and orders dated
March 25, 1963 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Appeals
Nos. 1640 of 1962 and 1359 of 1962 respectively.
Niren De, Additional Solicitor-General, D. R. Prem, R. H.
Dhebar and B. R. G. K. Achar, for the appellant (in Cr.	 As.
Nos. 192 of 1961 and 183 of 1962). D. R.	 Prem,	B. R. G. K. Achar, Yogeshwar	Prasad,	 for
appellant (in Cr. As.	 Nos. 123 of 1962 and 41 and 42 of
1964). S. C. Mazumdar, for respondent No. 1 (in Cr. A. No. 123 of
1962). P. K. Chatterjee and S. P. Varma, for respondent No. 1 (in
Cr. A.	 No., 123 of 1962). B. M. Mistry, P. R, Vakil, J. B. Dadachanji, O. C. Mathur
and Ravinder Narain, for respondent (in Cr. A. No. 41 of
1964). B. R. Agarwala and H. K. Puri, for respondent (in Cr.	 A.
No. 42 of 1964). P. R.	 Vakil,	 B. M. Mistry, J. B. Dadachanji, for	 the
interveners (in Cr. A. Nos. 41 and 42 of 1964).
SUBBA RAO J. delivered a dissenting Opinion. The Judgment
of WANCHOO SHAH, SIKRI and PAMASWAMI JJ. was delivered by
WANCHOO J. Subba Rao, J. I regret my inability to agree
	 on the construction of s. 167 (81) of the	 Sea
	 Customs Act, 1	8 7 8. The Acts have	been
	 stated by my learned brother, Wanchoo, J., and
	 need not restate them. Clause (81) of S. 167 of the Sea Customs	 Act
	 reads
	 "If any person knowingly, and with intent to
	 defraud the Government of any duty payable
	 thereon, or to 4 evade any prohibition or restriction for	 the
	 time being in force under or by virtue of this
	 Act with respect thereto acquires possession
	 of, or is in any way concerned in carrying,
	 removing,	 depositing, harbouring, keeping or
	 concealing or in any manner dealing with	 any
	 goods which have been unlawfully removed	from
	 a	 warehouse or which are chargeable with a
	 duty which has not been paid or with respect
	 to the importation or exportation of which
	 'any prohibition	 or restriction is for	 the
	 time	 being	 in force as
	 aforesaid";.............. The penalty clause thereof reads : "such
	 person shall on conviction before a Magistrate
	 be liable to imprisonment for any term	 not
	 exceeding	 two years or to fine, or to both".
	 This clause introduces a criminal offence. It
	 is triable by a Magistrate. The person	con-
	 victed is liable to, imprisonment for a	term
	 not exceeding two years or to fine or to both.
	 The rule	 of construction of such a clause
	 creating	a criminal offence is well settled.
	 The following passage from the judgment of the
	 Judicial	Committee in The Gauntlet(1) may be
	 quoted : The clause, therefore, must be construed strictly and it is
not open to the court to strain the language in order to
read a casus omissus.	The court cannot fill up a lacuna: of the Legislature. The second rule of construction equally
well settled is that a court cannot construe a section of a
statute with reference to that of another unless the latter
is in	pari materia with the	 former. It follows	that
decisions made	 on a provision of a different	 statute in
India or elsewhere will be of no relevance unless the	 two
statutes are in pari materia. Any deviation from this	rule
will destroy the fundamental	principle of construction,
namely,	 the duty of a court is to ascertain the expressed
intention of the Legislature. I am	led to	 make these
general	 remarks, as an attempt was made by	the learned
counsel	 for the appellant to persuade us to interpret	 the
words of the clause in the light of the decisions of	 the
English courts on an analogous provision in an Act intended
to prevent smuggling. It is not possible to state that	 the
English	 and the Indian Acts are in pari materia, though
their general	purposes are the same and though there is
some: resemblance in the terminology used in	 them.	 The
English	 decisions, therefore, must	be kept aside	 in
construing the relevant provisions of the Indian statute.
Now coming to the relevant clause, the following material'
ingredients constitute an offence thereunder : (1) a person
must have a knowledge that there is a prohibition or
restriction against doing any of the enumerated acts	with
respect	 to goods imported or	 exported contrary to	 the
restriction or prohibition imposed against their import or
export;	 (2) he must have acted with an, intention to evade
such a	 restriction or prohibition; there is	 no offence
unless the said two elements of mens rea, namely, knowledge
and intention,	 are established. It is not enough if a
person	 has only knowledge of such	 a prohibition	 or
restriction; in addition he shall have the intention to
evade such a prohibition or restriction against the import
or export of	goods,	as the case may	 be. A	 person	 who
knowingly purchases smuggled goods from an importer cannot
have an intention to evade a provision against import,	 for
the prohibited goods have already been imported. A person
who receives goods with the knowledge that they are stolen,.
goods cannot possibly have an intention to commit theft, for
the theft has already been committed, though he may have the
intention to receive the stolen goods. Knowledge of an
offence	 cannot be equated with an intention to	 commit	 the
offence. Such	 a construction effaces the	 distinction
between the two distinct elements of mens rea, knowledge and
intention, laid down in the clause. The only possible way out of the inevitable effect of	 the
plain words used in the said clause is to give a meaning to
the expres- sion "import" which that word cannot bear. To	 accept	 the
argument of the learned counsel for the appellant is to hold
that the process of import continues	through	 innumerable
transactions between different persons without reference to
time or place and whether the goods existed or ceased to
exist.	 Ordinarily the process of import commences	 the
moment	the goods cross the customs barrier. That is	 the
meaning	 given to that word by this Court in J. V. Gokal &
Co. v. Assistant Collector or Sales-Tax(1). But the	said
clause	 gives	that expression a wider meaning.	 The
enumerated dealings with the goods prohibited or restricted
covered	 a field beyond the	point of import normally
understood by that expression.	 But all the said dealings
have an intimate nexus with the import of goods under	 the
Act. Goods may be imported through the machinery provided
under the Act; yet, a person may evade the restrictions by
fraud or otherwise. Goods may also be	 illegally imported
into India outside the machinery so provided. This is	done
stealthily at different points of the vast sea line of	 our
country. But in either case different persons may take part
in carrying, removing, depositing, harbouring, keeping	 -or
concealing or in any other manner dealing with any goods so
imported. They are the necessary acts to complete	 the
process of import. Such acts may be done by persons between
whom there was a prearranged plan before the	 goods	were
brought into India. Different persons may also take part in
such dealings with the requisite knowledge or intention	 for
the purpose of completing the import vis-a-vis the importer.
Under the said-clause, therefore, the process of import does
not end immediately the prohibited goods are brought	into
India,	but continues till the goods :are delivered to	 the
importer, physically or constructively. The importer	 who
smuggles the goods is certainly guilty under the -clause,
because he imports them in derogation of the prohibition -or
restriction. Any person who deals with the goods in	 the
context	 of the import as explained above in any one of	 the
connected ways -with the requisite knowledge and intention
would equally be guilty of the offence.	 But the subsequent
transactions in regard to the said goods are	outside	 the
process	 of the enlarged definition	of the	 expression,
"import". It would be incongruous to hold that a purchaser
from the importer or a purchaser from the said purchaser,
and so	 on, has an intention to evade	the prohibition or
restriction, though he may have the intention to receive the
smuggled goods.	 How does such a purchaser evade the prohi-
bition against import which has already been affected ?	 The
contrary construction	will lead to	the anomaly of a
purchaser,
(1) [1960] 2 S.C.R 852, 857, 858. even after 20 years of the import, being attributed	 the
intention to evade the prohibition against import. Suppose
before	the purchase of the	goods by a stranger	 the
prohibition was lifted. In such a situation, does	 the
purchaser commit an offence ? If the contention is sound, he
does. This illustrates that the crux' of the offence is the
import	of goods with the requisite intent contrary to	 the
prohibition.	For the said	reasons	 the intention	 to
contravene the prohibition cannot be imputed to subsequent
dealers	 in the said goods after the importer	 parts	with
them. It is said that if the construction suggested by the learned
counsel for the appellant be not accepted, many a person who
purchases smuggled goods will escape punishment. A	fair
reading	 of the Act	discloses that	 the Act makes a
distinction between a	 customs offence and	a criminal
offence. The smuggled goods in the hands of whomsoever they
are found can be confiscated and, therefore, the State	 can
always	 trace	 the smuggled	goods to their ultimate
destination. The smuggler and the persons concerned in	 the
smuggling are guilty of both customs and criminal offences.
The Legislature, either intentionally or otherwise, has	 not
made the dealings in such goods by persons other than those
mentioned in cl. 81 of s. 167 of the Sea Customs Act a
criminal offence. When the clause does not bring them	 in,
the court cannot, by construction, bring such a class of
persons	 within the said clause. It is for the	 Legislature
to do so and we are told that it has recently	amended	 the
section. I, therefore, agree with the High Court that it has not been
established that the respondents have dealt with the goods
with an intention to evade any restriction or	 prohibition
imposed on the import of the said goods. In the result, all the appeals should be dismissed.
Wanchoo, J. These two appeals on certificates granted by the
Calcutta High Court arise out of the same trial of the	 two
respondents for an offence under s. 167 (81)	of the	 Sea
Customs	 Act,.	No. 8 of 1878, (hereinafter referred to as
the Act) and will be dealt with together. The facts are not
in dispute and have been found as below. On August 25, 1958, a constable attached to the Detective
Department, noticed Sitaram Agarwala respondent and another
person at the crossing of Hariram Goenka street and Kalakar
street.	 The constable had certain information with respect
to 8 these persons and decided to follow them. These two persons
got into a bus and the constable also boarded the same	bus.
They got down at the unction of B. K. Pal Avenue and J. M.
Avenue and so did the constable. They then went to Narendra
Dev Square 'Which is a kind of park.	The constable	kept
watch over them from a distance. After a short time these
two men came out of the park and stood on the western foot-
path of J. M. Avenue. Shortly thereafter a small taxi	came
there from the South and stopped. Respondent Wang Chit Khaw
(hereinafter referred to as the Chinese accused) was in that
taxi.	He came down and shook hands with Sitaram Agarwala
and the three got into the taxi. When the taxi was about to
start,	the constable disclosed his identity to	 the driver
and asked him to stop.	He also asked the 'three persons to
accompany him to the thana. Thereupon Sitaram Agarwala	 and
the other man who was with him came out -of the taxi	 and
tried to run away. The constable caught hold of them	 and
put them in the police wagon which happened to come up	just
then.	The Chinese accused also tried to run	 away.	 The
constable -appealed to the members of the public to help him
in securing the Chinese accused and he was secured with	 the
help of two college students and one other youngman. As the
Chinese accused was running away he threw away three packets -which	were picked up.	 In the meantime Sergeant Mukherjee
came there on a motor-cycle from the opposite direction	 and
detained the Chinese accused. The three packets thrown away
'by him were also handed over. by the three youngmen to	 the
'Sergeant. Thereafter	 all the three persons who	were
arrested 'were taken to the police station along with	 the
three packets.	It was found in the police station that	 the
three packets contained 23 gold bars of about sixteen tolas
each with Chinese inscription -thereon. On search of	 the
person of Sitaram Agarwala, a sum of Rs. 49,320 in notes of
various	 denomination was found on him. 'The Customs
authorities were informed and took charge of the gold bars.
Eventually, the gold bars were confiscated under s. 167(8) of the	 Act and thereafter the police	after investigation
prosecuted the two respondents and the third man in respect
of -the offence under s. 167(81) of the Act.
These facts were held to be proved by the Magistrate so	 far
as the	 Chinese accused and Sitaram were concerned.	 He
therefore convicted them. The case against the third	 man
was held -to	be doubtful and he was acquitted.	 Two
convicted persons then filed separate appeals in the	High
Court.	 The High Court -accepted the findings of	fact
recorded by the learned Magistrate	 and came to	 the
conclusion that on the facts proved there was 9 no doubt that Sitaram had gone with a large sum of money to
meet the Chinese accused in order to purchase the, gold bars
which had been recovered from the, packets thrown away by
the Chinese accused. The High Court then addressed itself to the question whether
on the facts proved the conviction of the two	 respondents
could be sustained in law. The charge against Sitaram
Agarwala was that on the date in question and at the	time
and place which appeared in the evidence he had gone there
by previous arrangement to purchase the smuggled gold	bars
from the Chinese accused and was therefore concerned in
dealing with smuggled gold and thereby committed an offence
under S. 167(81) of the Act. The charge against the Chinese
accused	 was that he had in his possession 23 smuggled	gold
bars which he wanted to sell to Sitaram Agarwala and another
person by previous arrangement and as such he was concerned
in dealing with smuggled gold and was guilty under s.	 167
(81) of the Act. So far as Sitaram Agarwala was concerned,
the High Court held that by merely going to the park in
order to purchase smuggled gold by previous arrangement, it
could not be said that Sitaram Agarwala was in	 any manner
dealing with smuggled gold. The High Court was of the	view
that there was a mere attempt to purchase smuggled gold on
the part of Sitaram Agarwala, but as the purchase was	 not
completed it could not be said that Sitaram Agarwala	 was
concerned in dealing with the smuggled gold. The High Court
therefore ordered the acquittal of	 Sitaram Agarwala,
respondent. As to the Chinese accused, the High Court	held
that though he was found in possession of smuggled gold,
which he knew to be such, and had attempted to sell	that
gold surreptitiously, s. 167(81) required knowledge that the
article	 in question was smuggled and intention	 to defraud
the Government of any duty payable thereon or to evade	 any
prohibition or restriction for the time being in force under
or by virtue of the Act. In view of the intent necessary,
the High Court was of the view that before a person could be
convicted under s. 167(81) it must be shown that he	 was
either	a direct importer or concerned in some way in	 the
import	of the smuggled article. In other words, the	High
Court thought that the section dealt with goods while	they
were being smuggled;	it did not include in its scope a
person who subsequently obtained the smuggled goods and then
dealt with them, though the smuggled goods themselves might
be liable to confiscation when seized.	 Consequently,	 the
High Court ordered the acquittal of the Chinese accused
also. As the inter- pretation of s. 167(81) was involved, the High Court granted
certificates; and that is how the two appeals have come up
before us. The facts are not in dispute in this case and have been set
out above. Thus the question that arises before us is	 the
interpretation of s. 167(81) and two aspects of that section
have to be considered.	The first aspect is the ambit of the
words "in any way concerned in or in any manner dealing with
any goods with respect to the importation of which	 any
prohibition or restriction is for the time being in force as
aforesaid". The second aspect is with respect to the intent
necessary under the section and whether that	 intent	 can
arise where smuggling is over and smuggled goods are	 the
possession of persons other than those actually concerned in
the smuggling and are then dealt with by them in some manner
or other. We may briefly indicate the scheme of the Act in order to
appreciate the purpose behind S. 167(81). The object of the
Act is to provide machinery for the collection inter alia of
import	duties	and for the prevention of smuggling.	With
that object customs frontiers are defined, (Ch. 1); Customs
officers are appointed with, certain	 powers, (Ch.	11);
ports,	wharves, customhouses, warehouses and boarding	 and
landing-stations are provided for, (Ch.	 III);	prohibitions
and restrictions of imports and exports are envisaged,	(Ch.
IV); levy of and exemption from custom duties and the manner
in which it has to be done is provided, (Ch. V); drawbacks,
i.e., refunds are provided in certain	circumstances,	(Ch.
VI); arrival and departure of vessels is controlled,	(Ch.
VII and Ch. VIII); provision is made for the discharge of
cargo,	(Ch. IX), and clearance of goods for home	con-
sumption (Ch.	X); provision is also made for	 warehousing
and transshipment, (Chapters XI, XII); provisions are	also
made for exportation or shipment and re-landing (Ch. XIII);
special	 provisions have been made relating to	spirit	(Ch.
XIV) and coasting trade (Ch.	XV). Then comes Ch.	 XVI
dealing with offences and penalties. Offences enumerated in
Ch. XVI are of two kinds; first there are contravention of
the Act and rules thereunder which are dealt with by Customs
officers and the penalty for which is imposed by them.
These may be compendiously called customs offences. Besides
these there are criminal offences which are dealt with by
Magistrates and which result in conviction and sentence of
imprisonment and/or fine. These two kinds of offences	have
been created to ensure that no fraud is committed in	 the
matter of payment of duty and also to ensure that there is 11 no smuggling	of goods, without payment of	duty or in
defiance of any prohibition or restriction imposed under Ch.
IV of the Act. It is necessary for our purpose to set out two provisions of
s. 167 which is in Ch. XVI.	These are s. 167 (8) and 167
(81 Section 167 (8) is in these terms :- Section	 167(81) with which we are particularly concerned
reads thus
(1) Offences (continue).. fully removed from a warehouse or which are' chargeable with
a duty	 which	has not been paid or with respect to	 the
importation or	 exportation of which	any prohibition or
restriction is for the time being in force as aforesaid; or
(2) Section of this Act to which offence has reference
General
(3) Penalties
such person shall on conviction before a Magistrate be
liable to imprisonment for any term not exceeding two years
or to fine, or to both; L1sup. C.I/66-2 12 It will be seen that S. 167 (8) deals with what we	have
called customs offences while s. 167(81) deals with criminal
offences. It is well-settled by the decisions of this Court
that goods which have been imported against the	 prohibition
or restriction imposed under Ch. IV of the Act are liable
to confiscation at any time after import and this liability
extends even in the hands of third persons who may not	have
had anything to do with the actual import. So long as it is
proved	that the goods had been imported against	 the
restrictions imposed under Ch.	IV, the goods remain liable
to confiscation whenever found even if this is	 long after
the import is over and even if they are in possession of
persons who had nothing to do with the actual import. It is
also well-settled by the decisions of this Court that	 the
second	part of the penalty relating to any person applies
only to a person concerned in the importation or exportation
of the	 goods	and does not apply to	a person found in
possession of the smuggled goods who had nothing to do	with
the importation or exportation thereof: (see	Shivanarayan
Mahato v. Collector of Central Excise and Land Customs(1).
The main contention of the respondents which has found
favour with the High Court was that s. 167(81) when it deals
with persons and subjects them to imprisonment and fine on
conviction by a Magistrate is also concerned with persons
who are in some way or other actually concerned in	 the
import	and has no application to third persons who	 had
nothing to do with the actual import but might have come in
possession of smuggled goods even knowingly after they	 had
been smuggled.	 Before however we consider this contention
which has found favour with the High Court we should like to
dispose	 of the other contention which was raised on behalf
of Sitaram Agarwala and which also found favour with	 the
High Court. It will be seen that s. 1 67 (8 1 ) deals	with
persons who do certain things with the knowledge and intent
therein	 specified and one such person with whom that	pro-
vision deals is a person who is, in any way concerned in or
in any	 manner	 dealing with any goods with	 respect to
importation of which any prohibition or restriction is	 for
the time being in force. The High Court has held on	 the
facts in this case that Sitaram Agarwala cannot be said to
have been concerned in or in any manner dealing	with
prohibited goods inasmuch as he was merely negotiating	with
the Chinese accused for their purpose but the deal had	 not
been concluded. The view which found favour with the	High
Court thus was that if the deal had been completed, Sitaram
Agarwala could	 be said to have been concerned	 in dealing
with the prohibited goods but as the deal was not completed
and he
(1) C.A. 288 of 1964, decided on 14-8-65. was merely attempting to purchase the goods it could not be
said that he was in any way concerned in or in	 any manner
dealing with them. We are of opinion that the view taken by
the High Court is not correct. The	words "in any	 way
concerned in or in any manner dealing with prohibited goods" Such goods" in the context of the section	mean either
prohibited or	restricted goods or goods on which duty is
leviable. The other clauses of s. 186. of the English	Act do	 not
specifically contain words relating to intent. But in
Frailey	 v. Charlton (1) it was decided that intent to
defraud the revenue or to evade a restriction or prohibition
would apply to other clauses of s. 186 also. Thus	 the
English	 Act by s. 186 also requires that a person who	 was
concerned in carrying, removing etc., or in	 any manner
dealing with any prohibited or restricted goods or dutiable
goods must do so knowingly and with intent to	defraud	 His
Majesty of any duty due thereon or to evade any	 restriction
or prohibition. The interpretation of this	provision in s. 186	 was
considered in	Beck v. Binks (2). In that case the facts
were that a person was found in possession of uncustomed
goods in London and it was urged, as was urged	 before	 the
High Court in the present case, that the person concerned
could not be said to be carrying the uncustomed goods	with
intent	to defraud His Majesty of the duty because such an
offence	 could only be committed by the actual smugglers or
importers of goods or persons engaged in carrying the goods
from the ship etc. at the port of importation with intent to
evade the payment of duty or tax. This contention was nega-
tived and the court held that "the offence of knowingly
carrying or in any manner dealing with uncustomed goods with
intent	to defraud His Majesty of the duty	due thereon
contrary to s. 186 is not only committed at the port of
entry or the place where the goods are actually landed; it
is committed anywhere in the realm by a person acting in the
manner	described by the sub-section".	 Lord Goddard	C.J.
made the following observations at p. 252
	 "If a person is knowingly carrying uncustomed
	 goods, he is assisting in the smuggling of the
	 goods; for while goods are no doubt smuggled
	 when they are brought into
	 (1) L.R. [1920] 1 K.B. 147. (2) L.R. [1949] 1 K.B. 250. the country it is no good bringing smuggled
	 goods into, the country unless something	 can
	 be done with them" Such a person is intending
	 to defraud His Majesty of the customs as	much
	 as anybody else.	The intent is there : it is
	 all part of	one operation............. Otherwise, a most extraordinary lacuna is left
	 in the Act, for it can then be said that, once
	 a	 man has got away from the port of entry or
	 from the place where the goods were actually
	 landed, no one dealing with the smuggled goods
	 and carrying them inland will ever be guilty
	 of an offence. I do not think that has	ever
	 been held, and I am certainly not prepared to
	 hold it	now, I think it clear that	this
	 appellant	 was dealing with-that is, carrying
	 uncustomed goods and that he was carrying them
	 with intent to defraud His Majesty of	 the
	 duties thereon." The next case	 to which reference may be made	 is Rex v.
Cohen(1). In	that case 352	 Swiss	watches	 which	were
uncustomed were recovered from the accused	and he	 was
charged	 with being in possession of uncustomed	 goods	with
intent	to defraud His, Majesty of	the duties thereon
contrary to s. 186 of the English Act . Dealing with	 the
question of intent to defraud, it was held' that if	 the
accused	 knew that the goods were uncustomed, the intention
to defraud the revenue may be inferred. Here also	 the
uncustomed goods were	 recovered from	 the house of	 the
accused at Edgware and there was nothing to show that he was
in any way concerned with actual smuggling. Even so,	 the
court held that he must be held to be intending to defraud
the revenue. The next case to which reference may be, made is Sayce, v.
Coupe(2). In	that case the accused-was in possession of
certain American cigarettes on which duty had not been paid.
It was held that where a person has in his possession goods
which are to. his knowledge uncustomed and which he intends
to use	 or sell,, he is guilty of the	offence	 of keeping
uncustomed goods with intent to defraud the revenue of	 the
duties	thereon contrary to s. 186. In that case there	 was
nothing to show that the accused had anything to do with the
importation or smuggling of the goods.	Even so, it was held
that he had the intent to defraud the revenue.
The next case to which reference may be made is Schneider v.
Dawson(3). That was a case where a civilian	bought	from
American servicemen cigars and spirits which had	been
imported free	of duty for the use	 of United States
Servicemen under art
(1) L.R. [1951]1 K.B. 505.	 (2) L.R. [1953] 1 K.B. 1.
(3) L.R. [1960]2 Q.B. 106. agreement between the British and American Governments	 and
kept them for his own use. He was charged with knowingly
and with intent to defraud Her Majesty of the duty payable
thereon	 being	 concerned in	keeping	 goods	which	were
chargeable with duty on which duty had not been paid.	 It
was held that	 the person's conduct clearly	amounted to
keeping	 the smuggled goods and there was intent to defraud
the revenue. This case was under the English	Customs	 and
Excise Act of 1952, but the principle under the English	 Act of 1876 was followed. These cases clearly indicate that the	 offence under	 the
corresponding provision of the English Act can be committed
long after the actual smuggling is over and even if	 the
person	found in possesSion of goods on which duty had	 not
been paid had nothing to do with smuggling.	These cases
thus clearly support the interpretation we have put on	 the
relevant words of s. 167(81). Further	 the case of Schneider(2) shows that it	 has always
been held in	England that if	 dutiable goods have	been
brought	 into the country without paying the duty, the	duty
attaches to the goods brought into the country and though it
may not have been paid at the moment of bringing the goods
for some special reasons (as, for example, where it is meant
for a foreign ambassador) the duty is leviable later on when
the goods pass into the hands of persons other than	 the
privileged person. The same in our view applies equally to
goods which are smuggled into the country and the duty	 has
been evaded. The duty always remains payable on goods which
have been brought in without payment of duty	and whoever
deals with them even at a later stage after the operation of
smuggling is over would still be liable to pay the duty	 and
if he does not, he must have the intention to	defraud	 the
Government of revenue.	The same applies to prohibition	 and
restriction and so long as the prohibition or	 restriction
remains in force, the person dealing with the smuggled goods
which had evaded the prohibition or restriction must also be
held to evade the prohibition or restriction.	In the	view
that we have taken it is therefore unnecessary to consider
when the import or smuggling ends, for s. 167(81) hits	 not
only persons concerned in smuggling or importing but	also
all others who come into possession of or deal with smuggled
goods after the smuggling is over. Lastly	learned counsel for the respondents refers us to s.
135 of	 the Customs Act (No. 52 of 1962). That section
provides for what was formerly provided in s. 167 (81) of
the Act. The	 argument is that it is	 in very different
terms.	That is undoubtedly so. (1) L.R. [1960] 2 Q. B. 106. But it does not follow from the fact that the corresponding
section' in the 1962 Act is differently worded that	 the
provision in s. 167 (81). cannot have the meaning which is
being pressed before us	 on behalf of the appellant.	 The
interpretation	of s. 167(81) must depend upon the language
of that provision itself and on the language	used in s.
167(8)	we have, no doubt that it applies not	only to an
actual smuggler or a person concerned in smuggling but	also
to all others who may be concerned with smuggled goods after
the smuggling is over. In the view that we have taken of the meaning of s. 167(81)
it follows that on facts found Sitaram Agarwala	 was
concerned in dealing with prohibited or restricted goods.
It also follows on facts found that he had the necessary
knowledge and	intent	to evade the	prohibition or	 the
restriction even though he dealt with the goods after	 the
smuggling was	over and was not in any way concerned	with
actual	smuggling. He would therefore be guilty under s.
167(81)	 of the Act. We therefore allow the	appeal,	 set
aside the order of acquittal made by the High Court, restore
the order of	the Presidency Magistrate and	confirm	 the
sentence passed on Sitaram Agarwala by the Magistrate.
It also follows on facts found that Wang Chit Khaw is guilty
under s. 167 (81) inasmuch as he was dealing with prohibited
or restricted	goods and had the necessary knowledge	 and
intent	as required under that section.	 We therefore allow
the appeal, set aside the order of the High Court, restore
that of the Presidency Magistrate and confirm the sentence
passed on him by the Magistrate. ORDER
In accordance with the opinion of the majority the appeals
are allowed, the orders of the High Court are set aside, the
orders	of the Presidency Magistrate are restored and	 the
sentences on the respondents are confirmed.