a) Date of commission of the : 20.01.2014
 offence b) Name of the complainant : SI Amit Tyagi c) Name of the accused persons : 1) Nasiruddin Khan S/o Sh. Sakir
 and their parentage Ali R/o E-79, Block-E, Harkesh
 Nagar, New Delhi. 2) Sandeep @ Sunny S/o Sh. Ramesh Chand R/o H. No. 2709,
 Gali No. 13, 2nd Floor, Ranjit Nagar,
 New Delhi. d) Offence complained of Sec. 33 / 58 Delhi Excise Act. : When SI Amit Tyagi signaled the driver of the said car to stop, the
vehicle stopped about 15-20 meters before the picket and two boys
sitting in the front seats got out and started running. The driver of
 Digitally
 Page No.2 of 25 signed by
 UDITA
 UDITA JAIN
 JAIN GARG
 Date: the said car was caught by SI/Amit Tyagi, but the other boy ran
away from the spot, about whom Ct. Manjeet stated that the said
boy is Sandeep @ Sunni, who has even previously been arrested in
their police station in a liquor case and whom he recognizes very
well. During interrogation, the name of the driver of the said vehicle
was disclosed as Nasiruddin Khan s/o Sh. Sakir Ali. Upon checking
the vehicle, 5 white plastic bags were found between the rear seats,
on which different marks were printed. Upon checking them, there
were two boxes of illicit liquor in each bag and 48 quarter bottles in
each box, making the total number of quarter bottles to be 480.
Thereafter, SI/Amit Tyagi once again tried to join 4-5 passerby in
the investigation by explaining the situation to them, but without
any luck. Thereafter, SI/Amit Tyagi separated one quarter bottle
from each boxes as sample and wrapped the mouth of the samples
with a white cloth duly sealed with the official seal of RTNGR-III
and gave Serial No. 1 to 10 to them. All the quarter bottles were of
the same brand containing labels of " Impact Grain Whisky For Sale
In Haryana Only, Distilled Blended And Bottled By Ads Sprite Pvt
Ltd.". He kept remaining boxes in the same plastic bags and
wrapped the mouth of the bags with a white cloth and sealed with
the seal of RTNGR-III. Form M-29 was filled on the spot and the
case property was seized. During investigation, accused Nasiruddin
Khan stated that the illicit liquor belong to co- accused Sandeep@
Sunny, who is a resident of Gurgaon and whose Ph. No. is
8447586252, whom he can identify. Seal after use was handed over
to Constable Manjeet. Thereafter, he prepared the rukka and sent the
 Digitally
 Page No.3 of 25 signed by
 UDITA
 UDITA JAIN
 JAIN GARG
 Date: tehrir through Constable Manjeet to the Police Station on the basis
whereof present FIR was registered against the accused Nasiruddin
Khan under section 33 / 58 of the Delhi Excise Act (herein after
referred to as the Act). After registration of the FIR, investigation
was marked to the IO, who prepared the site plan, recorded the
disclosure statement of the accused Nasiruddin Khan, arrested the
accused and conducted his personal search. Case property was
deposited in the Malkhana. During investigation, on 27.01.20214, accused Sandeep @
Sunny was also arrested from his house i.e. H.No.2709, 2 nd Floor,
Gali No.13, Ranjeet Nagar, Delhi by the IO at the instance of Ct.
Manjeet, who disclosed in his disclosure statement Ex.PW1/5 that
he purchased the illicit liquor from Gurugram, Haryana and then
used to sold the same in Ranjeet Nagar illegally. The sample bottle was sent to the Excise Laboratory for
examination and the result of Ethyl alcohol was found positive. After completion of the investigation, charge-sheet was filed
before the court. Consequently, accused Nasiruddin Khan and
accused Sandeep @ Sunny was summoned to face the trial. On his
appearance in the Court, the copies of documents relied upon by the
prosecution, were supplied to the accused as per norms. Thereafter, charge under Sec. 33 / 38 r/w Section 58(d) of
Delhi Excise Act was framed against the accused persons namely
Nasiruddin Khan and Sandeep @ Sunny to which they pleaded not
 Digitally
 signed by
 Page No.4 of 25 UDITA UDITA
 JAIN GARG
 JAIN Date: Since both the accused persons admitted the genuineness and
veracity of FIR bearing No.35/2014, PS Ranjit Nagar Ex.A1,
Certificate under Section 65-B of Indian Evidence Act, Ex.A2 and
chemical examination report no.SZD732-SZD741 dated 05.02.2014,
Ex.A3 under section 294 of the Code of Criminal procedure, 1973
on 31.03.2023, the examination of PW DO/HC Vikas and chemical
examiner was thereby dispensed with. With a view to connect the accused with the crime, the
prosecution has examined as many as four (04) witnesses. PW1/HC Om Prakash deposed that on 20.01.2014,
investigation of the case was marked to him and he alongwith Ct.
Manjeet went to the spot i.e. Madhav Sethu, Ranjit Nagar, Delhi
where SI Amit Tyagi met them and handed over the custody of
accused Nasiruddin and the recovered case property. He deposed
that he recorded the statement of SI Amit Tyagi and prepared site
plan Ex. PW1/A at the instance of SI Amit Tyagi. He arrested the
accused Nasiruddin vide arrest memo Ex. PW1/B, conducted
personal search vide memo Ex. PW1/C and informed his family
members. He also recorded disclosure statement of accused
Nasiruddin Ex. PW1/D. He deposed that all the documents were
prepared by him at the spot and sent the accused Nasiruddin for
medical examination through Ct. Chandraveer. Case property
including the liquor and car, the number of which he could not

 Digitally
 Page No.5 of 25 UDITA
 signed by
 UDITA
 JAIN GARG
 JAIN Date: remember, were taken to the PS and deposited in malkhana. He
further deposed that on 27.01.2014, during patrolling duty
alongwith Ct. Manjeet, when they reached Gali No. 11 or 13, Ranjit
Nagar, Ct. Manjeet noticed and pointed out towards co-accused
Sunny and stated that he had fled from the spot on the date of
recovery of liquor in the present case. He further deposed that said
accused Sunny was arrested vide arrest memo Ex. PW1/E, his
personal search was conducted vide Ex. PW1/F. He further deposed
that on 22.01.2014, samples were deposited by him at the Excise
Lab at ITO vide RC No. 11/21/14 Mark Z and on 05.02.2014, he
collected the Excise Result. He recorded the statement of witnesses
and after completion of the investigation, filed the challan in the
court. Accused Nasiruddin Khan and Sunny both were correctly
identified by him in the court. He deposed that vehicle and its RC
were seized through seizure memo(s). He had correctly identified
the seizure memo of the RC of the car Ex. PW1/G and the vehicle
was seized vide Ex. PW1/H. Furthermore, he had recorded the
disclosure statement of accused Sunny vide memo Ex. PW1/I.

 During the testimony of witness, MHC(M) produced one
white sack (plastic katta) duly sealed with the seal and word 'R'
being visible on the seal. The particulars of FIR No. were marked
with black ink as '35/14'. The seal was broken open with the
permission of the court and on opening the same, it was found
containing one open katta and two cartons containing quarter liquor
bottles with label "Impact Grain Whiskey For Sale In Haryana Page No.6 of 25 Digitally
 signed by
 UDITA
 UDITA JAIN
 JAIN GARG
 Date: Only". The case property was correctly identified by him. During the testimony of witness, MHC(M) had also produced
one bottle made of glass with label of " Impact Grain Whiskey For
Sale In Haryana Only". The bottle was sealed with seal of 'RTNGR-
I'. It was stated by Malkhana official that the stock of the seized
liquor was destroyed in view of Order no. F. CONF/2018/754-55
dated 25.04.2019 of Assistant Commissioner (Excise). The copy of
the order with copy of Register running in 5 pages was exhibited as
Ex. P-1. Witness correctly identified three photographs of the said
vehicle Ex. P-2. He was duly cross-examined by the Ld. defence counsel for
accused Nasiruddin wherein he stated that he received the FIR at
about 08:55 pm. Ct. Chandervir was the beat officer and he was
already at the spot. He deposed that Ct. Chandervir was not the team
member of SI Amit Tyagi and that Ct. Manjeet had handed over the
FIR to him. He testified that he could not tell the DD number vide
which he left the PS. He further deposed that the seized vehicle was
a commercial vehicle. At the spot, two police officials and 2-3
public persons alongwith the accused persons were present. He
deposed that he had requested the public persons to join the
investigation, however, they left the spot without giving their names
and addresses. He deposed that no CCTV camera was installed at or
near the spot. He denied that no illicit liquor was recovered from the

 Page No.7 of 25 Digitally
 signed by
 UDITA UDITA
 JAIN GARG
 JAIN Date: possession of accused Nasiruddin or that the case property was
falsely planted upon the accused or that all the writing work was
done while sitting at PS.

 Despite opportunity, the witness was not cross-examined by
Ld. defence counsel for accused Sandeep @ Sunny. PW2/SI Amit Kumar was the complainant in the present case,
who deposed that on the fateful day, he alongwith Ct. Manjeet were
on patrolling duty at Madhav Setu, when one secret informer
informed them that one Eco car having registration No.
DL1YD1278 containing illicit liquor might cross the area and could
be apprehended, if a raid is conducted. He further deposed that upon
the direction of SHO PS Ranjit Nagar, he put a picket on Madhav
Setu and had requested 4-5 passerby to join the investigation,
however, they left the spot without giving their names and
addresses. He deposed that due to paucity of time, he could not
serve them any notice. At about 06:30 pm, a white Eco car having
registration No. DL1YD1278 came from Naraina Road, the driver
of the said vehicle stopped the vehicle after seeing the picket 15-20
steps. The driver and one more person came out of the vehicle and
tried to flee from the spot. He managed to apprehend the driver of
the vehicle. Upon checking the vehicle, five plastic kattas were
recovered containing two cartons in each kattas and after checking
each carton, 48 quarter bottles of illicit liquor "Impact Grain Whisky
For Sale In Haryana Only, 180 Ml" was found. He deposed that he
again requested 4-5 passerby to join the investigation, however, they
 Digitally
 Page No.8 of 25 UDITA
 signed by
 UDITA
 JAIN GARG
 JAIN Date: left the spot without giving their names and addresses and due to
paucity of time, no notice was given to them. He took out one
sample bottle from each carton and put the remaining quarter bottles
in their respective cartons. He put back all the cartons in their
respective kattas. He covered the mouth of the sample bottles with a
piece of white cloth and sealed them with the seal of 'RTNGR-III'.
He also sealed the katta with the seal of 'RTNGR-III' and seized
both the samples and the kattas vide memo Ex. PW-2/A. Seal after
use was handed over to Ct. Manjeet. He also filled Form M-29 at
the spot, prepared the tehrir and handed over the same to Ct.
Manjeet for registration of FIR Ex.PW-2/B. Ct. Manjeet left the spot
and got the FIR registered and after sometime, he alongwith HC Om
Prakash returned at the spot as further investigation was handed
over to HC Om Prakash after which he was discharged. Both the
accused persons were correctly identified by him in the court. He
deposed that he can identify the case property, if shown to him. During his testimony, he correctly identified the three
photographs of the case property produced by MHC(M) i.e. Maruti
Eco Car bearing Regn. No. DL1YD1278, Ex. P-1 (colly). He was duly cross-examined by Ld. defence counsel for
accused Nasiruddin Khan wherein he deposed that he received the
secret information at about 06:15 pm, however, he had not made
entry regarding the secret information as he was on patrolling duty
and was not present at the PS. He answered that he put the picket on
Madhav Setu at about 06:25 pm and Sh. Joginder Singh was the
 Digitally
 Page No.9 of 25 UDITA
 signed by
 UDITA
 JAIN
 JAIN GARG
 Date: SHO of PS Ranjit Nagar whom he had informed him regarding the
secret information. He replied that he was present at the spot till the
arrival of second IO/HC Om Prakash. Ct. Manjeet had left the spot
with rukka after about 1½ hours after receiving the secret
information and he returned after about an hour with 2 nd IO/HC Om
Prakash. He further deposed that he might have made his arrival
entry after coming to the PS, but he did not remember exactly. He
could not tell whether the seized vehicle Ex. P-2 was a private
vehicle or commercial vehicle or whether it was used for some other
purpose. He denied that no secret information was received regarding
the illicit liquor or that he had also not put any picket on Madhav
Setu; or that he had not made any effort to join the public persons. He was also duly cross-examined by Ld. defence counsel for
accused Sandeep @ Sunny, wherein he deposed that he had
prepared the seizure memo in one go and no alteration or
modification was made by him in the said memo. He replied that no
seal handing over memo was prepared after handing over the seal to
Ct. Manjeet Singh. PW3/Ct. Jai Prakash was working as MHC(M) at PS Ranjit
Nagar. During the testimony of witness, witness had produced
register no. 19 of the year 2014 and had shown mud no. 530. The
copy of same was exhibited as Ex. PW-3/A (OSR). Despite opportunity, he was not cross-examined by Ld.

 Page No.10 of 25 Digitally
 signed by
 UDITA
 UDITA JAIN
 JAIN GARG
 Date: defence counsel for accused Nasiruddin Khan as well as for accused
Sandeep @ Sunny. PW4/HC Manjeet Kumar was also on patrolling duty
alongwith PW-1 SI Amit Tyagi, who deposed the same as PW-1/SI
Amit Tyagi regarding the proceedings conducted by the 1 st IO. In
addition to the deposition as PW-1/SI Amit Tyagi, he got the FIR
registered. He further deposed that on 27.01.2014 at about 06:00-
06:30 PM, he was informed by a secret informer that co-accused
Sandeep @Sunny could be apprehended from his residential home.
He informed HC Om Prakash about the same and he alongwith
IO/HC Om Prakash went to 2709, Gali No. 13, Ranjit Nagar from
where co-accused Sandeep @Sunny was apprehended. When a leading question was put by the Ld. APP for the State
he admitted that IO/HC Om prakash also seized the Eco Car
alongwith the RC of the said car vide memo Ex.PW1/H and
Ex.PW1/G respectively. He was duly cross-examined by Ld. defence counsel for
accused Nasiruddin wherein he deposed that he was the part of
investigation of excise case before the present case, but he did not
remember the number. He answered that the secret information was
received at about 06:15 PM by SI Amit Tyagi and no police official
was present except him and SI Amit Tyagi at that time. He denied
that accused Nasiruddin had disclosed that he was working with
accused Sandeep @Sunny for the supply of illicit liquor and in

 Digitally
 Page No.11 of 25 UDITA
 signed by
 UDITA
 JAIN GARG
 JAIN Date: return he got 4000/- extra other than fare charge. He admitted that
the public persons were passing by from the spot and volunteered
that IO had asked some public persons to join the investigation, but
they refused to join the same. He denied that accused Nasiruddin
was lifted from some other place and was falsely implicated in this
case. He was duly cross-examined by Ld. defence counsel for
accused Sandeep @ Sunny, wherein he stated that he had only
informed regarding the secret information to SHO PS Ranjit Nagar,
but had not given anything in writing to him. He admitted that the
place of apprehension of accused Sandeep @ Sunny was a
residential area and public persons were also passing by and no
notice was served to the public persons, who refused to join the
investigation by the IO. Thereafter, PE was closed and statement of accused persons
under section 313 of the Code was recorded to afford them an
opportunity to explain the incriminating circumstances appearing
against them in evidence. They denied the allegations and pleaded
false implication. Accused Nasiruddin chose to lead DE. In his defence, accused Nasiruddin examined himself wherein
he deposed that he had been running the taxi for carrying goods on
requisition. The Vehicle no. DL-IYD-1278 was registered in the
name of Mr. Suleman Khan (operator name Sita Ram tour travels).
GPS device receipt No. 031 dated 04.07.2013 was exhibited as

 Page No.12 of 25 Digitally
 signed by
 UDITA UDITA
 JAIN GARG
 JAIN Date: Section 52(d) of the Delhi Excise Act, 2009 states that:- It was argued on behalf of the State that since the accused
were found in possession of illicit liquor without any license, the
burden rests on them, to dispel the statutory presumption raised
under section 52 of the Act. Per contra, it was argued on behalf of the accused that
"presumption" can be invoked against them only if the prosecution
 Digitally
 Page No.16 of 25 UDITA
 signed by
 UDITA
 JAIN GARG
 JAIN Date: successfully proves the "recovery" beyond reasonable doubt. Section 52 of the Act provides for presumption as to
commission of offence in certain cases. It reads as under:- From a bare reading of section 52 of the Act, it is evident that
presumption under section 52 could be drawn only if the factum of
recovery is proved beyond reasonable doubt. Now, let us see whether the recovery of illicit liquor is proved
by the prosecution beyond the shadow of reasonable doubt and
whether the presumption of offence alleged to have been committed
by the accused would arise in this case. Foremost contention of the learned defence counsel was that
as per prosecution PW2 complainant SI Amit Tyagi and PW4/HC
Manjeet Kumar while patrolling apprehended the accused with
illicit liquor, however, the prosecution has not proved the departure
and arrival entries regarding patrolling in the area. He further
contended that had this been true, there ought to have been some
DD entry in the Register, maintained in the police station which has
also not been proved by the prosecution. As per prosecution, PW2 complainant SI Amit Tyagi and

 Digitally
 signed by
 Page No.17 of 25 UDITA UDITA
 JAIN GARG
 JAIN Date: PW4/HC Manjeet Kumar were patrolling in the area when they
apprehended the accused with illicit liquor. To appreciate the submission of the learned defence counsel,
it would be advantageous to refer to clause (c) of Rule 22.49
Chapter 22 Punjab Police Rules, as applicable to NCT of Delhi,
which reads as under:- From the reading of the above mentioned rule, it is evident
that all the police officials irrespective of their rank are bound to
record their arrival and departure entry at the time of leaving their
office. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court while dealing with a similar
situation in the case of Rattan Lal vs. State 32 (1987) DLT 1=1987
(2) Crimes 29 observed as under:- In the present case, though PW2 complainant SI Amit Tyagi
testified that he alongwith HC Manjeet Kumar were patrolling in the

 Page No.18 of 25 Digitally
 signed by
 UDITA UDITA
 JAIN GARG
 JAIN Date: All the police witnesses testified that they asked several
public persons to join the investigation, but they refused. When
PW2/SI Amit Tyagi and IO/HC Manjeet Kumar were questioned if
any written notice was served upon those public persons, they
answered in negative. No reason was furnished for the failure to
give such notice to the independent witnesses. As per prosecution, the place from where the recovery was
effected was a public place, yet no witness from the public was
associated with the recovery. Failure to join witnesses from the
public especially when they are available casts shadow of doubt on
the prosecution case regarding recovery of illicit liquor from the
possession of accused. Case property not produced before the court for evidence:- production of case property before the trial court,
 shall not affect the conviction for an offence
 under this Act: In the case in hand, neither the photographs of the entire lot of
seized bottles nor the inventory as directed by the Hon'ble High
Court of Delhi in the case of Manjeet Singh (supra) is placed on
record. As per the prosecution version, seizure memo of the liquor
was prepared at the spot prior to registration of the FIR. However,
this document bears the number of the FIR. Prosecution has failed to explain as to under what
circumstances number of the FIR has appeared on the top of the
seizure memo which was allegedly prepared before sending the
rukka i.e. before registration of the FIR. Reliance may be placed on
a judgment passed by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in the case of Pawan Kumar vs. the Delhi Administration 1989 Crl. L.J 127
wherein it was held as under:- It is further pertinent to mention here that the accused
Sandeep was not arrested from the spot and his identification was
based on the version of PW4 Ct. Manjeet, as per the chargesheet,
however, the said witness made no such averment during his
deposition in court. The said statement is also not reflected in the
testimony of PW2 SI Amit Kumar who was also on patrolling duty
along-with PW4 Ct. Manjeet on the date of the incident.
Furthermore, the circumstances surrounding the arrest of accused
Sandeep are also riddled with contradictions. While the witness PW
1 HC Om Prakash in his deposition before the court testified that it
was during patrolling duty that Ct. Manjeet identified accused
Sandeep as an accused in the present case, P4 Ct. Manjeet deposed
that he received a secret information pertaining to the location of
accused Sandeep and on the basis of the same he arrested the
accused along-with HC Om Prakash. All these facts taken together create doubt on the entire warp

 Digitally
 signed by
 Page No.24 of 25 UDITA UDITA
 JAIN GARG
 JAIN Date: and woof of the prosecution story regarding recovery of illicit liquor
from the possession of accused. Result:- Digitally
 UDITA signed by
 UDITA JAIN
 GARG
 JAIN Date: