The instant nine assessees have filed their impugned appeals against CIT(A)'s
separate orders passed upholding the Assessing Officer's identical action treating their
Long term capital gain claimed u/s 10(38) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (Act) to be
bogus, involving proceedings u/s 143(3) of the Act. Relevant details (appeal-wise) are
as follows :- CIT(A)-10, Kolkata 561/CIT(A)-10/W-34(4)/2014-15/2016-17/Kol 28.03.2018
CIT(A)-10,Kolkata 572/CIT(A)-10/W-36(1)/2014-15/2016-17/Kol 01.03.2018
CIT(A)-Siliguri 51/CIT(A)/SLG/2016-17 22.03.2018
CIT(A)-10,Kolkata 132/CIT(A)-10/W-34(2)/2014-15/2016-17/Kol 12.01.2018
CIT(A)-6, Kolkata CIT(A), Kolkta-6/10287/2016-17 08.03.2018
CIT(A)-10, Kolkata 469/CIT(A)-10/W-36(1)/2014-15/2016-17/Kol 20.04.2018
CIT(A)-10, Kolkata 568/CIT(A)-10/W-35(2)/2014-15/2016-17/Kol 29.12.2018
CIT(A)-10, Kolkata 855/CIT(A)-10/Wd-36(4)/15-16/2017-18/Kol 12.04.2018

 Relevant assessment year involved in all cases is 2014-15 except ITA
No.1266/Kol/2018 relating to A.Y.2013-14. Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15 2. I have heard all learned counsel(s) representing these assessees as well as the
Revenue reiterating their respective stands against and in support of the lower
authorities' impugned action treating their respective capital gains amounts to be bogus.
I also condone 17 days delay in ITA No.1266/Kol/2018 as the Revenue is fair enough in
not disputing the sole issue averments citing reasons thereof. I take up ITA
No.1263/Kol/2018 in case of Shri Jignesh Desai to be the lead case as it has come on
record that the issue involved is same in all these cases. 3. I now advert to the relevant fact in the above lead case. There is no dispute that
the assessee claimed to have derived long term capital gain under issue of
Rs.23,92,464/- from sale of Shri Shaleen Textiles and Grandma Trading Agencies Ltd
involving purchase price(s) of Rs.20,400/-and Rs.94,500, sold for Rs.12,77,746/- and
Rs.12,29,618/- resulting in long term capital gain of Rs.12,57,346/- and Rs.11,35,118;
respectively totalling to Rs.23,92,464/-. 4. The assessee explained before the Assessing Officer that these scrips had been
purchased through "off market" on 24.04.2012 and 18.01.2013. The Assessing Officer
did not agree to assessee's above narrated details. He was of the view that the above
alleged abnormality in assesseee deriving profits @6163% and 1201% defied the stock
market's established conventions as per human probabilities. He observed in
assessment order dated 27.12.2016 that all this suggested a very well planned price
rigging of these two scrips. 5. Case file suggests that the Assessing Officer examined both the above two scrips
past history, face value of shares, alleged dubious nature of other business, balance
sheet and financials including equities and liabilities, dividends declared in the
intervening period etc to opine that their astronomical rise in shares had reasons
attributable to something suspicious rather than flowing from normal market trends. He 4 5 ITA No.1263/Kol/2018 Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15
analysed share price mentioned of the two scrips from April 2012 to the date of rising
their maximum value in the holding period. He was of the opinion that the said share
price movement witnessed a pre-arranged trading pattern revealing an artificial price
rigging in these two scrips as per relevant details right from the date of acquisition to
31st March, 2015. He therefore treated assessees to have engaged in bogus long term
capital gain arrangements as per the relevant case records in collusion with entry
operators in these facts and circumstances. He also referred to D.I.T.'s investigation
report to this effect alleging such long term capital gains to be an arrangement between
assessees and their entry operators involving wider scheme of things. All these made
him to add the assessee's long term capital gain of Rs.25,21,600/- as unexplained cash
credits and commission disallowance/addition @2.5% amounting to Rs.60,041/- as
unexplained expenditure. 6. The CIT(A) upholds the Assessing Officer's action with the following detail
discussion : Similarly in the case of Sumati Dayal vs. CIT (1995) 214 ITR 801 (SC), their
Lordships held as under: "In view of section 68 of the Act, where any sum is found
credited in the books of the assessee for any previous year, the same may be
charged to income tax as the Income of the assesses of that previous year if the
explanation offered by the assessee about the nature and source thereof is, in the
opinion of the Assessing Officer, not satisfactory. In such a case, there is prima 6 7 ITA No.1263/Kol/2018 Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15
facie, evidence against the assessee viz. the receipt of money, and if he fails -to
rebut, the said evidence being un-rebutted, can be used against him by holding that
it was a receipt of an income nature. " In the case of Sajjan Das & Sons vs. CIT (2003) 264 ITR 435 (Delhi), their Lordships of the High Court of Delhi, while
considering a case in which gifts were received by the assessee through banking
channels laid Importance on the capacity of the donor for making the gift and his
identity as well as Importance of relationship between the donor and donee In
determination of genuineness of gift held as under: "That a mere identification of
the donor and showing the movement of the gift amount through banking channels
was not sufficient to prove the genuineness of the gift. Since the claim of the gift
was made by the assessee, the onus lay on him not only to establish the identity of
the person making the gift but a/so his capacity to make a gift and that it had
actually been received as a gift from the donor. "In my considered view wherever
documents are relied upon they should pass the test of normal behavior of the
assessee In the course of business viz., human conduct, preponderance of
probability and surrounding circumstances. In my considered view, even if
documentary evidence is produced, the same must pass the test of human
probabilities and surrounding circumstances if they do not, then addition justified.
Reliance on such matters is placed on the case of Smt Phoolwati Devi 314 ITR
(AT) 1 (Del.) 3. It must also be stated here that in Commissioner of Income Tax vs NR Portfolio
Pvt Ltd on 22 November, 2013, the Hon'ble Delhi High court has held ..... 4. In this connection, I would also wish to refer to the decision of the Hon'ble ITAT
Bombay Bench 'B' (ITA No.614/Bom/87 A.V. 1983-84) In the case of M/s. Mont
Blane Properties and Industries Pvt. Ltd., which was upheld by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court. The Hon'ble Tribunal held that the word 'evidence' as used In sec.
143(3) covered circumstantial evidence also. The word 'evidence' as used in sec.143 (3) obviously could not be confined to direct evidence. The word 'evidence'
was comprehensive enough to cover the circumstantial evidence also. Under the
tax jurisprudence, the word 'evidence' had much wider connotations. While the
word 'evidence' might recall, the oral and documentary evidence as may be
admissible under the Indian Evidence Act the use of word 'material' in Sec.143(3) showed that the assessing officer, not being a court could rely upon material, which
might not strictly be evidence admissible under the Indian Evidence Act for the
purpose of making an order of assessment. Court often took judicial
....................................................................................................
principal fact. It is evidence of various facts, other than the fact in Issue which are
so associated with the fact in issue, that taken together, they form a chain of
circumstances leading to an Inference or presumption of the existence of the
principal fact. In the appreciation of circumstantial evidence, the relevant aspects,
as laid down from time to time are - Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15
(1.) the circumstances alleged must be established by such evidence, as In the case
of other evidence
(2) the circumstances proved, must be of a conclusive nature and not totally
Inconsistent with the circumstances or contradictory to other evidence.
(3) although there should be no missing links In the case, yet It is not essential that
every one of the links must appear on the surface of the evidence adduced ; some
of these links may have to be inferred from the proved facts ;
(4) in drawing those inferences or presumptions, the Authorities must have regard
to the common course of natural events, to human conduct and their relation to the
facts of the particular case. (5)The circumstantial evidence can, with equal facility, be resorted to in proof of a
fact in issue which arises in proceedings for the assessment of taxes both direct and
Indirect, circumstantial evidence can be made use of In order to prove or disprove a
fact alleged or In Issue. In fact, In whatever proceedings or context Inferences are
required to be drawn from the evidence or materials available or lacking,
circumstantial evidence has its place to assist the process of arriving at the truth. " 8. When the impossible is projected as possible through a plethora of well arranged
documents, it would be very reasonable to reject the documents outright as make
believe and self serving. In the Case of Us ha Chandresh Shah Vs ITO, Ward- 19(1)(2), Mumbai, the Hon'ble ITAT - "F " Bench Mumbai by their Order for
A.Y.2006-07 26th September, 2014 have, in the operational portion adjudicated as
under : 9. We have heard the rival contentions and perused the record. The pertinent
points
are that the assessee has claimed to have purchased the Impugned shares through
Off market transaction. The purchase price was not paid by cheque, but it was
claimed to have been adjusted against the speculation profit claimed to have been
made by the assessee. The small difference of Rs.324/- was claimed to have been
paid by way of cash. It is also pertinent to note that the alleged Speculation
transaction carried out earlier to the purchase of shares of Prime Capital Markets
Ltd was also claimed to have been carried in off market transaction. Another
Important point is that the assessee did not possess copies of Share certificates or
copies of Share transfer forms. The broker M/s Khandelwal & Co., has expressed
Its Inability to furnish copies of contract notes available with It and also failed to
furnish Its books of account to substantiate the transactions of purchase of shares
by the assessee. Since the impugned transaction was an off market transaction, the
purchase transaction could not be confirmed by the Kolkata Stock exchange. The
said shares were earlier held by M/s Brightsun Merchants (P) Ltd and the assessee
had purchased the shares from them. The notice Issued to M/s Brightsun
Merchants (P) Ltd was returned unserved by the postal authorities with, the
remark "unknown". In this regard, the assessee had replied that the name of the
company was wrongly mentioned by the AO as M/s Brightsuns (P) Ltd and hence
the notice got returned. But there is not comment about the address, meaning
thereby, the AO had issued notice to the correct address only and hence the slight
variation in the name of the company would not normally make any difference.
Hence the fact that the notice was returned back only shows that the seller of the
shares could not be identified. All these discussions would show that the purchase
transaction could not be cross verified by the assessing officer. 10. One more point to be noted here is that the speculation transactions can be
entered only on payment of margin money. But the details of said payment are not
available. With regard to the query raised by the AO relating to Margin money, the
broker M/s D.K. Khandelwal & Co has replied In the context of purchase of shares 10 11 ITA No.1263/Kol/2018 Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15
of M/s Prime Capital markets Ltd and not In the context of speculation
transactions. Thus, It is seen that the question of keeping margin money for
speculation transactions remains unanswered both by the assessee as well as by
the Share broker cited above. Further the speculation transaction Is also claimed
to be an off market transaction, which further casts shadow of doubt over the claim
put forth by the assessee. 11. Though the assessee has claimed to have purchased the shares in physical
format in May, 2004, she chose to D-Mat the same only In June 2005, just two
months prior to its sale. The shares were sold through a share broker named Sanju
Kabra, who is indicted by SEBI for rigging the prices of penny stock shares. It is
pertinent to note that the share prices of MIs Prime Capital Markets Ltd went from
Rs.5.17 (May, 2004) to Rs.279.50 (Sep., 2005). The assessee could not furnish any
reasons or at-least stock market news to support the abnormal Increase in the
prices of the above said shares. The financial statements of the above said
company were also not produced. Though M/s Prime Capital Markets Ltd has
confirmed the entries in its books of account with regard to the purchases made by
the assessee, It could not identify the name of purchaser to whom the shares were
sold by the assessee. 12. We have already seen that the tax authorities have applied the test of human
probabilities explained by the Hon'ble Supreme Court In the cases of Sumati Dayal
and Durga Prasad More (supra) to disbelieve the claim of Long term Capital gains
put forth by the assessee. We notice that the test of human probabilities was not
applied by the co-ordinate benches of-Tribunal in the case of Shrl Avlnash Kantilal
Jain (supra) and Mr. Shyam R Pawar (supra). Hence, in our view,' the assessee
cannot take support from the above said decisions. We further notice that the Id
CIT(A) has placed reliance on the decision dated 04.1.2011 rendered by ITAT
Delhi In the case of Haresh Win Chaddha Vs. DDIT, wherein the Tribunal has
expressed the view that there is no presumption In law that the AO Is supposed to
discharge an Impossible burden to assess the tax liability by direct evidence only
and to establish the evasion beyond doubt as In criminal proceedings. Further it
was held that the AO can assess on consideration of material available on record,
surrounding circumstances, human conduct, preponderance of probabilities and
nature of Incriminating Information /evidence available on record. 13. In the case of Smt. Jamnadevi Agrawal (supra), the Hon'ble Bombay High
Court has upheld the order of Tribunal on the reasoning that no fault can be found
with the findings recorded by the Tribunal. A perusal of the above said order
would show that the revenue In the above said case had contended that the
assessees In the group have' purchased- and sold shares of similar companies
through the same broker. Further the purchase prices and sale prices were 11 12 ITA No.1263/Kol/2018 Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15
supported by producing the evidences to show that the said transactions were
undertaken at the rates prevailing on the respective dates. Under these set of facts,
the High Court held that the findings given by the Tribunal cannot be found fault
with and further held that the decision rendered by Hon'ble Supreme Court In the
case of Sumati Dayal (supra) was not applicable. In the case of Shrl Mukesh
Ratilal Marolla (Supra), the Hon'ble Bombay high Court has observed that the
assessee has furnished copies of Share certificates to show that the shares were In
fact transferred to the name of the assessee before it. Further there was no
allegation that the prices of shares purchased by the assessee in the case before
High Court were manipulated. 14. However, In the Instant case, the assessee could not produce the copies of
share certificates and copies of share transfer forms. The transaction of purchase
of shares could not be cross verified. The shares of M/s Prime Capital Markets Ltd
was declared as "Penny Stock" by SEBI and the broker Sanju Kabra, through
whom the shares were sold by the assessee was Indicted for manipulating the
prices of penny stock shares. Hence, In our view, the tax authorities have rightly
applied the test of human probabilities to examine the claim of purchase and sale
of shares made by the assessee. 15. We notice that the Mumbai D bench has considered an identical issue In the
case of Shrl Ramesh Kumar D Jain In ITA No.3192/Mum/2010 relating to
assessment year 2006-07. The Tribunal, vide Its order dated 15-06-2011, rejected
the claim of making speculation gains on the reasoning that speculation
transactions could not have been entered Into by the assessee therein without
paying margin money to the broker. Accordingly, the claim of purchase of shares
was rejected by the Tribunal and consequently the claim of sale of shares was also
rejected. It is pertinent to note that, in the decisions relied upon by the assessee,
the claim of speculation profits was not considered by the Tribunal. In yet another
case of Shrl Araving M Kariya considered by "A " bench of Mumbai ITAT, the test
of human probabilities was applied to reject the aim of profit realized on' sale of
penny stocks. There should not be any dispute that the onus to produce necessary
evidences to convincingly show that the shares were purchased and sold at the
prices Claimed always lies upon the assessee. Our view finds support from the
decision rendered by Hon 'ble Guwahatl High Court In the case of CIT Vs. Smt.
Jasvinder Kaur (357 ITR 638). 16. In view of the foregoing discussions, we are of the view that the decisions relied
upon by the assessee cannot be taken support of by the assessee for the reasons
discussed supra. Accordingly, we are of the view that the Ld CIT(A) was Justified
in confirming the order of the assessing officer by applying the test of human
probabilities. Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15 17. In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee is dismissed. [ Unquote] 9. Reliance is also placed In the case of Somnath Maini Vs ITO (226) 100 TT] 917
wherein the Hon'ble Chandigarh bench of ITAT held that if facts and
circumstances so warrant that It does not accord with the test of human
probabilities, transactions have to be held to be non-genuine. [ Quote] 3. The relevant facts briefly stated are that during the course of assessment
proceedings, the AO observed that assessee had incurred a long-term capital loss
on account of sale of gold jewellery declared under the VDIS, 1997, amounting to
Rs. 19,87,705 and also there was a short-term capital gain near to this amount of
long-term capital loss amounting to Rs. 20,36,700 resulting into net capital gain of
Rs. 48,995. The AO on perusal of record further observed that in the case of a
family member of the same assessee Shri D.C. Maini, in the same assessment year,
similar exercise has been done by the assessee wherein a long-term capital loss of
Rs. 11,59,066 had been Incurred on account of sale of gold jewellery declared
under the VDIS and short-term capital gain of Rs. 11,75,100 resulting Into a net
gain of Rs. 16,034. On going through the nature of transactions, the AO doubted
the genuineness of the short-term capital gain In the case of the assessee and he
made further inquiry that during the year assessee had purchased 45,000 shares of
w« Ankur International Ltd. At varying rates from Rs. 2.06 to Rs. 3.1 per share and
sold them within a short span of six-seven months at the rate varying from Rs.
47.75 to Rs. 55. These shares were purchased through a broker Munish Arora &
Co. and sold through another broker M/s S.K. Sharma & Co. The AO took by
surprise the astronomical rise In share price of a company from Rs. 3 to Rs. 55 and
started further Inquiry. The AO Issued notice under Section 131 to both the brokers
from whom shares were purchased and sold and statements were recorded. The AO
also analyzed the balance sheet of- M/s Ankur . International Ltd. To justify as to
how the share price of a company can go up from a .mere Rs. 3 to Rs. 55 In a short
span of six to seven months' time. The. AO made detailed and extraneous exercise
of finding the fundamental of the share of the company by different methods and
concluded that these shares were not genuine and transactions were so arranged so
as to cover up the loss Incurred on account of sale of jewellery only. The AO also
recorded the finding that transactions were made at Ludhiana where also the share
price of the company is quoted but maximum value of the share are quoted was Rs.
17 but that was only In July, 1997, .i.e. long before the shares were sold by the
assessee to M/s S.K. Sharma & Co. in the of months of February and March, 1998.
The AO also recorded the finding that although the shares were transferred in the
name of the assessee, they were still lying in the name of assessee much after the 13 14 ITA No.1263/Kol/2018 Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15
sale to M/s S.K. Sharma & Co. The learned CIT(A) deleted the addition on the
ground that both the brokers from whom the shares have been purchased and sold
were called under Section 131 by the AO. Both have confirmed the sale and
purchase of said shares. Other aspect of the facts and circumstances raised by the
AO was not discussed by the CIT(A) in his order. 4. In appeal before us, the learned Departmental Representative contended that it is
highly improbable that shares of a' company go up so high In few months' time.
The learned Departmental Representative took us through various pages of the
assessment order and the paper book wherein sale bill of the shares with the said
M/s S.K. Sharma &' Co. were also filed. The learned Departmental Representative
pointed out that shares have been sold at Ludhiana when actually stock exchange
was not functional - a fact which is also recorded by the AO. The learned
Departmental Representative also pointed out that shares have been sold to M/s
S.K. Sharma & Co. on 9th Feb., 1998 and 23'd March, 1998, whereas from the
statement of account of M/s S.K. Sharma & Co., payments have been received by
the assessee from 31st March, 1998 to 27th July, 1998, meaning thereby that had
the transactions been genuine, payment could have been received In one go by S.K.
Sharma & Co. The learned Departmental Representative pointed out that any such
type of transactions relating to these types of company operating on stock
exchanges payments are received in piecemeal whereas in normal market share
transactions, contract notes are issued by the broker and payments are received In
one go. The learned Departmental Representative also argued that as per the
statement of S.K. Sharma & Co. recorded at the time of Inquiry, he did not produce
any books of account and identity of persons to whom the shares have been sold.
Ordinarily, when brokers are enquired about share transactions, they keep proper
books of account from whom shares have been purchased and sold. However, In
this case, S.K. Sharma & Co. failed to provide the names of purchasers of the
shares and identity of the purchasers. 5. On the other hand, the learned Authorised Representative contended that in the
share market, share price does not move according to the fundamentals of a
company. They go up and down as per sentiments prevailing at that time. To
controvert, the argument of the learned Departmental Representative, he argued
that share prices are quoted at Jaipur Stock Exchange and were quoted on the
relevant date of sale at the same price on which shares were sold to M/s S.K.
Sharma & Co. However, the learned Departmental Representative controverted his
argument by saying that volume of transactions on the relevant dates Is only 600
shares on 9th Feb., 1998 and 1000 shares on 23rd March, 1998 whereas number of
shares involved in the transactions with S.K, Sharma & Co. are 45000 shares. Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15 6. After hearing the rival submissions, going through the orders of authorities
below and paper book, we find that M/s Ankur International Ltd., although It Is a
quoted company, its shares were not being transacted at Ludhiana Stock Exchange
at, the relevant time. Shares have been purchased and sold through the brokers and
payments have been received cheque on different dates as per the statement of
account of M/s S.K. Sharma & Co, Factual matrix of the case from start of the
purchase of shares at the rate of Rs. 3 to the sale of shares at Rs. 55 in a short span
of time and shares being not, quoted at Ludhiana Stock Exchange and the way in
which different, instalment payments have been received from the brokers and
non-availability of the records of the brokers and the shares remaining In the name
of assessee even long after the sale of the shares does not stand the test of
probabilities. As rightly pointed out by the learned Departmental Representative,
these types of companies function In the capital market whose sale price is
manipulated to astronomical height only to create the artificial transaction in the
form of capital gain. Surrounding circumstances differ from the normal share
market transactions in which they are ordinarily carried out. Taking all the steps
together, final conclusion does not accord with the human probabilities. The
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CUT v. Durga Prasad More held as under: 7. The learned CIT(A) only got swayed by the Issuance of notice by the AO under Section 131 to both the brokers from whom shares were purchased and sold and
came to the conclusion that share transactions were genuine overlooking the
material gathered by the AO from the statements recorded of broker M/s S.K.
Sharma & Co. and the other facts and circumstances that volume of transactions of
Jaipur Stock Exchange Is only 600 shares and 1000 shares. Payments have been
received from the brokers only In Instalments over a period of 6-7 months. It Is
true that when transactions are through cheques, it looks like real transaction but
authorities are permitted to look behind the transactions and find -out the motive
behind transactions. Generally, it is expected that apparent is real but it is not 15 16 ITA No.1263/Kol/2018 Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15
sacrosanct. If facts and circumstances so warrant that it does not accord with the
test of human probabilities, transactions have been held to be non-genuine, It is
highly improbable that share price of a worthless company can go from Rs. 3 to Rs.
55 In a short span of time. Mere payment by cheque and receipt by cheque does
not. Render a transaction genuine. Capital gain tax was created to operate in a real
world and not that of make belief. Facts of the case only lead to the inference that
these transactions are not genuine and make believe only to offset the loss incurred
on the sale of jewellery declared under VDIS. In the totality of facts and
circumstances of this case and material on record, we are of the considered view
that the CIT(A) was not justified In deleting the impugned addition. We,
accordingly set aside the order of the CITCA) and restore that of the AO. 8. In the result, the appeal of the Revenue is allowed. Moreover on the judgments relied upon by the appellant fall flat in the face of the
facts of the case and the preponderance of probability against the assessee. In a
decision of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain
Vs Pr.CIT by the order dated 10th April, 2017 have upheld the orders of the
.Hon'ble ITAT, Nagpur Bench dated 18.07.2016 in ITA No. 61/Nag/2013 In
Sanjay Bimalchand lain Vs ITO, Ward-4(2), Nagpur, wherein it was held that on
the facts emergent In the case, and the preponderance of probabilities, entire
Capital Gains claims were to be treated as fictitious and bogus. Bogus L TCG from Penny stocks: The assessee has not tendered
 cogent evidence to explain how the shares in an unknown company
 worth Rs.5 had jumped to Rs.485 in no time. The fantastic sale price
 was not at all possible as there was no economic or financial basis to
 justify the price rise. the assessee had Indulged in a dubious share
 transaction meant to account for the undisclosed income in the garb
 of long term capital gain. The gain has accordingly to be assessed as
 undisclosed credit u/s 68 . In view of the above discussion, I find no infirmity in the orders of the Ld. AO, and
I confirm the same, holding the claim of LTCG of Rs.25,21,600/- to be bogus. As a
natural corollary, I also hold that the Ld. AO was also correct in adding back an
amount of Rs.60,041/- under Sec 69C of the Income Tax act. The same also stands
confirmed. Therefore these grounds are dismissed." Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15 7. I have given my thoughtful consideration to rival contentions. Learned
Departmental Representative's sole contention as per the relevant facts and
circumstances narrated in the preceding paragraphs is that the assessee has derived his
long term capital gain under issue from a dubious route of rigging in value of his shares
in the two scrips. He refers to the relevant paper book as well as to this effect filed on
record at assessee's behest showing computation of income, financial statement
disclosing long term capital gains, investment details, purchase of shares, details of
consideration receipt on gross and net basis, purchase bills, proof of payment, demat
statements, contract note(s), transactions and balance confirmation, share progress
ledger account etc. He vehemently contends therefore that all this arrangement has been
taken recourse by the assessee in order to defraud the revenue. It is emphasized that
both the lower authorities have rightly invoked section 68 in the given facts and
circumstances of this case to treat the impugned long term capital gain as assessee's
unexplained cash credits. My attention is invited time and again to the fact that
DIT(Investigation) has found some entry operators spread throughout the country to be
indulged in such kind of business by rigging scrips' prices. I find no merit in all these
contentions raised at the Revenue's behest. The fact remains that there is not even a
single evidence or material against the assessee apart from mere assumptions and
presumptions hereinabove. This tribunal coordinate bench's decision in case of Navneet
Agarwal vs ITO ITA No.2281/Kol/2017 dated 20.07.2018 has decided the very issue in
assessee's favour with the following elaborate discussion :- A.Yr.2014-15
 2011 (copy of Application form, intimation of allotment and share certificate Paper
 Book at page 8 to 10). 2. The payment for the allotment of shares was made through an account payee
 cheque (copy of the bank statement evidencing the source of money and payment
 made to "Smart Champs IT & Infra Ltd." for such shares allotted is placed in the
 Paper Book at page no. 11). 3. Annual return no. 20B was filed with Registrar of companies by "Smart Champs IT
 & Infra Ltd" showing the assessee's name as shareholder (copy of annual return
 no. 20B filed with Registrar of companies by "Smart Champs IT & Infra Ltd. "is
 placed in the Paper Book at page no. 12 to 18.) 4. The assessee lodged the said shares with the Depository M/s. Eureka Stock &
 Share Broking Services Ltd. with a Demat request on 11th February, 2012. The
 said shares were dematerialized on 31st March, 2012 (copy of demat request slip
 along with the transaction statement is placed in the paper book at page no. 19 to 21). 5. On 24.01.2013, the Hon'ble Bombay High Court approved the scheme of
 amalgamation of "Smart Champs IT and Infra Ltd." with "Cressanda Solutions
 Ltd." In accordance with the said scheme of amalgamation, the assessee was
 allotted 50000 equity shares of "M/s. Cressanda Solutions Ltd." The demat shares
 are reflected in the transaction statement of the period from 1st November 2011 to
 31st December, 2013 (A copy of the scheme of amalgamation alongwith copy of
 order of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court and a copy of the letter to this effect
 submitted by "Cressanda Solutions Ltd". to Bombay Stock Exchange is placed in
 the Paper Book at page no 22 to 43.) 6. The assessee sold 50000 shares costing Rs. 500000/- through her broker "SKP
 Stock Broking Pvt. Ltd" which was a SEBI registered broker and earned a Long
 Term Capital Gain of Rs. 2,18,13,072/-. (Copy of the bank statement, brokers
 contract note together with the delivery instructions given to the DP and broker's
 confirmation is also placed in the paper book at page no 44 to 65). 7. Copy of Form No. 10DB issued by the broker, in support of charging of S.T.T. in
 respect of the transactions appearing in the ledger is placed in the paper book at
 page no. 66. 8. The holding period of the said scrip is more than one year (above 500 days)
 through in order to get the benefit of claim of Long Term Capital Gain the holding
 period is required to be 365 days. Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15 12.The assessing officer as well as the Ld. CIT(A) have rejected these evidences
filed by the assessee by referring to "Modus Operandi" of persons for earning
long term capital gains which his exempt from income tax. All these observations
are general in nature and are applied across the board to all the 60,000 or more
assessees who fall in this category. Specific evidences produced by the assessee are
not controverted by the revenue authorities. No evidence collected from third
parties is confronted to the assesses. No opportunity of cross-examination of
persons, on whose statements the revenue relies to make the addition, is provided
to the assessee. The addition is made based on a report from the investigation
wing. 13. The issue for consideration before us is whether, in such cases, the legal
evidence produced by the assessee has to guide our decision in the matter or the
general observations based on statements, probabilities, human behavior and
discovery of the modus operandi adopted in earning alleged bogus LTCG and
STCG, that have surfaced during investigations, should guide the authorities in
arriving at a conclusion as to whether the claim in genuine or not. An alleged scam
might have taken place on LTCG etc. But it has to be established in each case, by
the party alleging so, that this assessee in question was part of this scam. The
chain of events and the live link of the assesee's action giving her involvement in
the scam should be established. The allegation imply that cash was paid by the
assessee and in return the assessee received LTCG, which is income exempt from
income tax, by way of cheque through Banking channels. This allegation that cash
had changed hands, has to be proved with evidence, by the revenue. Evidence
gathered by the Director Investigation's office by way of statements recorded etc.
has to also be brought on recordin each case, when such a statement, evidence etc.
is relied upon by the revenue to make any additions. Opportunity of cross
examination has to be provided to the assesee, if the AO relies on any statements
or third party as evidence to make an addition. If any material or evidence is
sought to be relied upon by the AO, he has to confront the assessee with such
material. The claim of the assessee cannot be rejected based on mere conjectures
unverified by evidence under the pretentious garb of preponderance of human
probabilities and theory of human behavior by the department. 14. It is well settled that evidence collected from third parties cannot be used
against an assessee unless this evidence is put before him and he is given an
opportunity to controvert the evidence. In this case, the AO relies only on a report
as the basis for the addition. The evidence based on which the DDIT report is
prepared is not brought on record by the AO nor is it put before the assessee. The
submission of the assessee that she is just an investor and as she received some tips 19 20 ITA No.1263/Kol/2018 Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15
and she chose to invest based on these market tips and had taken a calculated risk
and had gained in the process and that she is not party to the scam etc., has to be
controverted by the revenue with evidence. When a person claims that she has
done these transactions in a bona fide and genuine manner and was benefitted, one
cannot reject this submission based on surmises and conjectures. As the report of
investigation wing suggests, there are more than 60,000 beneficiaries of LTCG.
Each case has to be assessed based on legal principles of legal import laid down
by the Courts of law. 15.In our view, just the modus operandi, generalisation, preponderance of human
probabilities cannot be the only basis for rejecting the claim of the assessee.
Unless specific evidence is brought on record to controvert the validity and
correctness of the documentary evidences produced,the same cannot be rejected by
the assessee. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Omar Salav Mohamed Sait
reported in (1959) 37 ITR 151 (S C) had held that no addition can be made on the
basis of surmises, suspicion and conjectures. In the case of CIT(Central), Kolkata
vs. Daulat Ram Rawatmull reported in 87 ITR 349, the Hon'ble Supreme Court
held that, the onus to prove that the apparent is not the real is on the party who
claims it to be so. The burden of proving a transaction to be bogus has to be
strictly discharged by adducing legal evidences, which would directly prove the
fact of bogusness or establish circumstance unerringly and reasonably raising an
interference to that effect. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Umacharan
Shah & Bros. Vs. CIT 37 ITR 271 held that suspicion however strong, cannot take
the place of evidence. In this connection we refer to the general view on the
topic of conveyance of immovable properties. The rates/sale price are at
variance with the circle rates fixed by the Registration authorities of the
Government in most cases and the general impression is that cash would
have changed hands. The courts have laid down that judicial notice of such
notorious facts cannot be taken based on generalisations. Courts of law are
bound to go by evidence. 16. We find that the assessing officer as well as the Ld. CIT(A) has been guided by
the report of the investigation wing prepared with respect to bogus capital gains
transactions. However, we do not find that the assessing officer as well as the Ld.
CIT(A), have brought out any part of the investigation wing report in which the
assessee has been investigated and /or found to be a part of any arrangement for
the purpose of generating bogus long term capital gains. Nothing has been brought
on record to show that the persons investigated, including entry operators or stock
brokers, have named that the assessee was in collusion with them. In absence of
such finding how is it possible to link their wrong doings with the assessee. In fact,
the investigation wing is a separate department which has not been assigned 20 21 ITA No.1263/Kol/2018 Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15
assessment work and has been delegated the work of only making investigation. The Act has vested widest powers on this wing. It is the duty of the investigation
wing to conduct proper and detailed inquiry in any matter where there is
allegation of tax evasion and after making proper inquiry and collecting proper
evidences the matter should be sent to the assessment wing to assess the income as
per law. We find no such action executed by investigation wing against the
assessee. In absence of any finding specifically against the assessee in the
investigation wing report, the assessee cannot be held to be guilty or linked to the
wrong acts of the persons investigated. In this case, in our view, the Assessing
Officer at best could have considered the investigation report as a starting point of
investigation. The report only informed the assessing officer that some persons
may have misused the script for the purpose of collusive transaction. The Assessing
Officer was duty bound to make inquiry from all concerned parties relating to the
transaction and then to collect evidences that the transaction entered into by the
assessee was also a collusive transaction. We, however, find that the Assessing
Officer has not brought on record any evidence to prove that the transactions
entered by the assessee which are otherwise supported by proper third party
documents are collusive transactions. 17. The Hon'ble Supreme Court way back in the case of Lalchand Bhagat Ambica
Ram vs. CIT [1959] 37 ITR 288 (SC) held that assessment could not be based on
background of suspicion and in absence of any evidence to support the same. The
Hon'ble Court held: The observations of the Hon'ble Apex Court are equally applicable to the case of
the assessee. In our view, the assessing officer having failed to bring on record any
material to prove that the transaction of the assessee was a collusive transaction
could not have rejected the evidences submitted by the assessee. In fact, in this
case nothing has been found against the assessee with aid of any direct evidences
or material against the assessee despite the matter being investigated by various
wings of the Income Tax Department hence in our view under these circumstances
nothing can be implicated against the assessee. 18. We now consider the various propositions of law laid down by the Courts of
law.That cross-examination is one part of the principles ofnatural justice has been laid down in the following judgments: b) Andaman Timber Industries vs. Commissioner of C. Ex., Kolkata-II wherein it
was held that: 19. On similar facts where the revenue has alleged that the assessee has declared
bogus LTCG, it was held as follows: b) The JAIPURITAT in the case of VIVEKAGARWAL[ITA No.292/JP/2017]order
dated 06.04.2018 held as under vide Page 9 Para 3: c)The Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of PREMPAL
GANDHI[ITA-95-2017(O&M)] dated18.01.2018 at vide Page 3 Para 4 held as
under: The Court also held the following vide Page 3 Para 5 the following: Further in Page 15 Para 8.5 of the judgment, it held: e) The BENCH "D" OF KOLKATA ITAT in the case of KIRAN KOTHARI HUF
[ITA No. 443/Kol/2017] order dated 15.11.2017 held vide Para 9.3 held as under: f) The BENCH "A"OF KOLKATAITAT in the case of SHALEENKHEMANI[ITA
No.1945/Kol/2014]order dated 18.10.2017 held as under vide Page 24 Para 9.3: g) The BENCH "H"OF MUMBAIITAT in the case of ARVINDKUMAR
JAINHUF[ITA No.4682/Mum/2014]order dated 18.09.2017 held as under vide
Page 6 Para 8: h)The Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of VIVEK
MEHTA[ITA No. 894 OF2010] order dated 14.11.2011 vide Page 2 Para 3 held as
under: Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15 i) The Hon'ble Jurisdictional Calcutta High Court in the case of CIT vs. Bhagwati
 Prasad Agarwal in I.T.A. No. 22/Kol/2009 dated 29.04.2009 at para 2 held as
 follows: j) The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of PCIT vs. Teju Rohit kumar Kapadia
 order dated 04.05.2018 upheld the following proposition of law laid down by the
 Hon'ble Gujrat High Court as under: 20. Applying the proposition of law as laid down in the above-mentioned
 judgments to the facts of this case we are bound to consider and rely on the
 evidence produced by the assessee in support of its claim and base our decision on
 such evidence and not on suspicion or preponderance of probabilities. No material
 was brought on record by the AO to controvert the evidence furnished by the
 assessee. Under these circumstances, we accept the evidence filed by the assessee
 and allow the claim that the income in question is a bona fide Long Term Capital
 Gain arising from the sale of shares and hence exempt from income tax. 21.Under the circumstances and in view of the above discussion, we uphold the
 contentions of the assessee and delete the addition in question. 22. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed. 8. I adopt the above extracted detailed reasoning mutatis mutandis in the given facts
and circumstance to accept the assessee's pleas raised in the instant appeal ITA 29 30 ITA No.1263/Kol/2018 Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15
No.1263/Kol/2018. The impugned bogus long term capital gain addition of
Rs.25,21,600/- as well as unexplained commission of Rs.60,041/- stands deleted. 9. Same order to follow in all the remaining appeals ITA Nos.1270/Kol/2018,
1267/Kol/2018, 844/Kol/2018, 519/Kol/2018,1266/Kol/2018, 1307/Kol/2018,
518/Kol/2018 and 1051/Kol/2018 as it has come on record that the lower authorities
have added the impugned long term capital gains claimed at these assessees' behest.
Learned Departmental Representative sought to carve out some exceptions therein that
these assessees could not establish acquisition of the corresponding scrips in some
instances. I reiterate that the relevant evidence comprising of payments, involvement of
registered stock brokers as well as all similar documents as in the lead case sufficiently
rebut these doubts in issue raised at Revenue's behest. Remaining issues regarding
interest etc are treated as mere consequential in nature. A copy of this order be placed
in respective case files. 10.All these assessees' appeals are partly accepted in above terms. Sd/- [ S.S.Godara ]
 Judicial Member

Dated : 26.09.2018

[RG Sr.PS]
Copy of the order forwarded to: True copy
 By Order

 Senior Private Secretary
 Head Of Office/ D.D.O., ITAT Kolkata Benches 30 31 ITA No.1263/Kol/2018 Jignesh Desai & Ors. A.Yr.2014-15 31