(PER : HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE S.H.VORA) 1. Since all these appeals are arising out of the common
judgment and order rendered in Sessions Case No.9 of 2007
and Sessions Case No.69 of 2007, with the consent of the
learned advocates appearing for the respective parties, they
are taken up for final hearing together and disposed of by this
common judgment and order so as to avoid repetition of facts
and findings. 2. Criminal Appeal No.760 of 2012 has been preferred by
the State of Gujarat for enhancement of sentence imposed
upon accused No.1- Mr.Bhavesh @ Bhavin Rameshbhai Sojitra,
accused No.2 - Mr.Bijal Jagabhai Bambhava Bharwad and
accused No.3 - Mr.Vallabh Arjan Koli after finding them guilty
for the offence punishable under Sections 489(B) and 489(C) of
the Indian Penal Code (for short, ' I.P.C .'). The State has also
preferred Criminal Appeal No.761 of 2012 against the order of
acquittal of the accused Nos.1 to 7 from the charges of offence
punishable under Sections 489(A) and 489(D) read with Section 120B of I.P.C. in Sessions Case No.9 of 2007 and Page 2 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT further, acquitting accused - Mr.Virendra @ Viru Manilal Darji
from the charges of offence punishable under Section 489(A) , 489(B) , 489(C) and 489(D) read with Section 120B of the I.P.C.
in Sessions Case No.69 of 2007. Whereas, accused No.2 -
Mr.Bijal Jagabhai Bambhava Bharwad has separately filed
Criminal Appeal No.2657 of 2008 against the judgment and
order dated 18.09.2008 passed by the learned Presiding
Officer and Additional Sessions Judge, 10th Fast Track Court,
Rajkot whereby, he was ordered to suffer sentence and fine for
the offence punishable under Sections 489-B and 489-C of
I.P.C. 3. Original accused No.1- Mr.Bhavesh @ Bhavin Rameshbhai
Sojitra, accused No.2 - Mr.Bijal Jagabhai Bambhava Bharwad
and accused No.3 - Mr.Vallabh Arjan Koli have been sentenced
to undergo R.I. for 3 years with fine of Rs.1000/-, in default, to
undergo further S.I. for 2 months for the offence punishable
under Section 489(B) of I.P.C. and also imposed same sentence
and fine for the offence punishable under Section 489(C) of
I.P.C. All the sentences have been ordered to run concurrently.
However, the learned Additional Sessions Judge recorded
acquittal of accused Nos.1 to 3 of Sessions Case Nos.9 of 2007
for the offence punishable under Sections 489A and 489D and Section 120B of I.P.C. and accused Nos.4 to 7 of Sessions Case
Nos.9 of 2007 as well as accused - Mr.Virendra @ Viru Manilal
Darji of Sessions Case Nos.69 of 2007 acquitted for the offence
punishable under Sections 489A to 489D and Section 120B of
I.P.C. whereas, accused Nos.1 to 3 were directed to undergo
above-mentioned R.I. with fine under Section 489B and 489C of I.P.C. It is stated at bar that accused Nos.1 and 3 have
suffered sentence imposed upon them and they have not Page 3 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT preferred any appeal against conviction and sentence imposed
upon them. 4. An F.I.R. being C.R.No.252 of 2006 came to be registered
before Malaviyanagar police station, Rajkot for the offences
punishable under Section 489(A) to 489(D) and Section 120B
of I.P.C. 5. The facts leading to lodging of the said F.I.R. against
accused No.1 and subsequently, arrest of accused Nos.2 to 7
of Sessions Case No.9 of 2007 and accused - Mr.Virendra @
Viru Manilal Darji of Sessions Case No.69 of 2007 can be stated
thus:- The detailed recovery panchnama of the fake currency notes
was drawn in the presence of panchas and the said 98 notes
were sealed as per panchnama and the said accused No.1
came to be arrested. During investigation of the case, as
further certain facts were found on the same day, Police
Inspector - Mr.M.N. Sarvaiya, who is Investigating Officer of Page 4 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT this case, came near Dargah of Jalalsha Pir, situated at
Kuvadva Road. From the facts extracted or obtained from the
statement of accused No.1, the Investigating Officer found a
person, named, Mr.Bijal Bharvad and upon his personal search
in presence of two panchas, the Investigating Officer found
200 currency notes of denomination of Rs.500/-. Accordingly,
the said notes were seized and sealed as per recovery
panchnama for the purpose of investigation. Said person -
Mr.Bijal Bharvad, who is original accused No.2 came to be
arrested. Upon interrogation of accused No.2 - Mr.Bijal
Bharvad, the Investigating Officer came to orchard, situated
near Aaji dam and a person named, Mr.Vallabh Koli i.e.
accused No.3 herein was found and upon his personal search
in the presence of two panchas, the Investigating Officer found
580 notes of denomination of Rs.500/- in 6 bundles from his
bag made of cloth and accordingly, they were seized as per
the detailed panchnama drawn by the Investigating Officer in
the presence of two panchas and said accused No.3 -
Mr.Vallabh Koli came to be arrested. During the further
investigation of the case and on further receiving information
from the accused persons already arrested, it is surfaced that
two other persons, namely, Mr.Jivraj Dhulabhai Vala and
Mr.Pravin Najabhai Waghela, Devipujak, residents of village: Ultimately, charge was framed and the accused persons
pleaded not guilty and having sought trial, they were tried and
only accused Nos.1 to 3 were found guilty and sentenced, as
aforesaid. 5.3. Since the case touches to the economy of the nation on
one hand and directly affects the person's liberty substantially,
we think it fit to re-produce the charge framed by learned
Sessions Judge-Mr.M.J. Thakkar in Sessions Case No.9 of 2007
and also charge framed by the learned Additional Sessions
Judge, who delivered the judgment in Sessions Case No.9 of
2007 and Sessions Case No.69 of 2007, if freely translated in
English, read as under:- Thus, you the accused persons have committed
 the said offence at the above stated date, time and
 place under section 489(a) (b) (c) and (d) and 120 (b)
 of the IPC within the jurisdiction of this Court and this
 Court has the power the conduct trial of the same. Therefore, I hereby order that trial of the above
 stated offence will be conducted against you, the
 accused persons in this Court. This charge was framed in the open court today
 on 18/5/07 after making my signature and seal of the
 court underneath. hereby frame the following charges against you, the
 above-mentioned accused persons that - Before about one year, you, the accused Virendra
 @ Viru Manilal Darji went to the shop of Dipak
 Manubhai Goshthi and from there you and Dipak
 Manubhai Goshthi had gone to Vijay Guest House and
 Dipakbhai, the trader had come with you there, and
 you, the accused and Dipak Manubhai Goshthi had
 printed counterfeit currency notes of Rs. 5,00,000/-, of
 the denomination of Rs. 500/-. You had printed these
 counterfeit currency notes in the computer of Dipak
 Manubhai Goshthi. Thus, you have committed the
 offence of performing the process of counterfeiting
 currency notes knowingly and have thereby
 committed the offence punishable u/s 489 (a) (b) (c) (d) and 120 (b) of Indian Penal Code . Hence, it is hereby ordered that trial be
 conducted against you, the accused persons before
 this Court for the offence punishable u/s 489 (a) (b) (c) (d) and 120 (b) of Indian Penal Code . Thus, as you, the accused persons have
 committed these offences at the place, time and date
 shown above, in the area falling under the jurisdiction
 of this Court, this Court has the authority of
 conducting trial in this regard. Hence, I hereby pass the order to conduct a trial
 in respect of the aforesaid offence against you, the
 accused persons in this Court. Framed today on 30/11/07, in the Open Court
 after my signature was put and the seal of the Court
 was affixed. 5.4. Amongst other witnesses and documentary evidence Page 9 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT produced and proved before the learned trial Judge, the
prosecution case mainly rested on the testimonies of P.W.No.9-
Mr.Ghanshyamsinh Pratapsinh Chauhan, P.W.10-Mr.Pradipsinh
Narendrasinh Rana, P.W.11-Mr.Ruprendrasinh Karansinh
Jadeja, P.W.12-Mr.Ramgar Dolatgar Gosai, P.W.13-
Mr.Pravinbhai Menandbhai Sonara, P.W.16-Mr.Nalinbhai
Chimanbhai Makwana, P.W.18-Mr.Mukeshbhai Nandshankar
Joshi and P.W.19-Mr.Mahavirsinh Navalsinh Sarvaiya and
further, rested on three recovery panchnamas at Exh.55
(Pg.192) drawn in presence of P.W.1-Mr.Jigneshbhai Vinodbhai
Acharya and P.W.2-Mr.Krushnasinh Laxmansinh Jadeja,
recovery panchnama Exh.59 (201) drawn in presence of P.W.3-
Mr.Vijay Gagjibhai Dodia and P.W.4-Mr.Bharatsinh Navalsinh
Bhatti and recovery panchnama Exh.75 (Pg.227) drawn in
presence of P.W.6-Mr.Bhupatbhai Dalpatram Bhatt and 7-
Mr.Premjibhai Ratnabhai Makwana effecting from the personal
search of accused Nos.1 to 3 respectively. Discovery
panchnama Exh.111 drawn on 26.06.2006 i.e. three months
prior to the incident in question by the Investigating Officer of
the offence registered with Bavla police station vide C.R.No.91
of 2006 was placed on record on 15.11.2007 and F.S.L. report
at Exh.169 dated 31.05.2007 was placed on record after
framing of charge on 18.05.2007. This date has relevancy in
this matter when we will consider the judicial conduct of
learned Sessions Judge-Mr.M.J. Thakkar, who framed the
charge qua accused Nos.4 to 6 in such a serious offence only
on the basis of the statements of the co-accused exhibiting
careless conduct unbecoming of a judicial officer. 6. In light of the evidence, oral as well as documentary, led
before the learned trial Judge, various contentions have been Page 10 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT raised. Learned A.P.P. Mr.H.K. Patel appearing for the State of
Gujarat mainly contended that the learned trial Judge has not
properly appreciated the evidence on record and committed
grave error in acquitting the accused persons i.e. respondent
Nos.4 to 8 of Criminal Appeal No.761 of 2008 for the offence
punishable under Section 489(A) to 489(D) and Section 120B of I.P.C. and, therefore, the impugned judgment and order of
acquittal requires to be interfered with. The learned A.P.P.
contended that from the material and evidence on record, the
specific role played by each accused person is surfaced on
record and, therefore, their involvement in the alleged
commission of offence for which, they are charged, is also
established beyond the reasonable doubt and, therefore, the
learned trial Judge ought to have convicted the respondent
Nos.4 to 8 of the charges leveled against them. It is
vehemently urged by him that in view of the material evidence
available on record, it is evident that the accused persons
hatched criminal conspiracy to destroy nation's economy by
circulating fake currency notes and, therefore, the learned trial
Judge ought not to have shown any leniency towards the
respondent Nos.4 to 8. The learned A.P.P., after relying upon
oral deposition of P.W.19-Mr.Mahavirsinh Navalsinh Sarvaiya,
recovery panchnamas drawn at his instance vide Exhs.55, 59
and 75, recovery panchnama of computer, hard-disk, printer
etc. recovered in respect of the offence registered with Bavla
Police Station vide C.R.No.91 of 2006 vide Exh.111, F.S.L.
report at Exh.169 read with oral evidence of Expert P.W.18-
Mr.Mukeshbhai Nandshankar Joshi, contended that
respondents - original accused Nos.1 to 3 were caught with
fake currency notes which were seized under the panchnama
and however, the learned trial Judge has not properly Page 11 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT appreciated the said oral as well as documentary evidence in
its true perspective and, therefore, it has resulted into lesser
imposition of punishment to the accused Nos.1 to 3. It is urged
by him that the accused persons were caught with fake
currency notes which were seized under various three
panchnamas and then, during the course of further
investigation, names of other accused persons were disclosed
and they were also arrested. However, the said aspect has not
been considered by the learned trial Judge and, therefore, the
impugned judgment and order of acquittal may be quashed
and set aside and punishment imposed upon the accused
Nos.1 to 3 may be enhanced suitably since the offence has
direct impact on the nation's economy. The learned A.P.P.
further contended that the learned trial Judge has not properly
appreciated the evidence of prosecution witness i.e. P.W.No.9-
Mr.Ghanshyamsinh Pratapsinh Chauhan, P.W.10-Mr.Pradipsinh
Narendrasinh Rana, P.W.11-Mr.Ruprendrasinh Karansinh
Jadeja, P.W.12-Mr.Ramgar Dolatgar Gosai, P.W.13-
Mr.Pravinbhai Menandbhai Sonara, P.W.14-Mr.Mansukhbhai
Devshankarbhai Madhak, P.W.15-Mr.Dineshbhai Mulubhai
Gadhvi, P.W.17-Mr.Rajeshkumar Ramjibhai Limbad, P.W.18-
Mr.Mukeshbhai Nandshankar Joshi, P.W.19-Mr.Mahavirsinh
Navalsinh Sarviya and P.W.20-Mr.Satishchandra Ganpatram
Khandlaval. On all these oral submissions, it is urged that the
appeals preferred at the instance of the State of Gujarat may
be accepted and accused persons of both the sessions cases
be suitably punished for the offence they have committed as
per charge framed and the offence proved by the State beyond
reasonable doubt on the strength of evidence placed on
record. 7. Per contra, learned advocate Mr.D.C. Sejpal appearing for
the appellant-original accused No.2 in Criminal Appeal No.2657
of 2008, learned advocate Ms.G.R. Vijyalaxmi appearing for
opponent No.1 as well as learned advocate Mr.P.M. Lakhani
appearing for opponent Nos.2 and 3 in Criminal Appeal
Nos.760 and 761 of 2012 respectively, learned advocate
Mr.Pratik Barot appearing for opponent Nos.4 to 6, learned
advocate Ms.S.M. Ahuja appearing for opponent No.7 and
learned advocate Mr.Aftab Hussain Ansari appearing for
opponent No.8 in Criminal Appeal No.761 of 2012, after
drawing our attention to the same set of evidence and material
which was relied upon by learned A.P.P. Mr.H.K. Patel for the
State, would contend that it is a case where, there is no iota of
evidence directly or remotely connecting the accused Nos.4 to
7 of Sessions Case No.9 of 2007 and accused-Mr.Virendra @
Viru Manilal Darji of Sessions Case No.69 of 2007 with the
alleged offence. Learned advocates appearing for the
respective accused persons would contend that burden to
show that currency notes were fake and the accused persons
had intention or knowledge to commit an offence was upon the
prosecution and further, the prosecution did not prove the
crucial ingredients i.e. mens rea which is must for bringing
home the guilt of accused persons under the provisions of Sections 489A to 489D of I.P.C. The learned advocates
appearing for the respective accused persons would contend
that there is no iota of evidence for the offence of criminal
conspiracy under Section 120B of I.P.C. The learned advocates
appearing for the respective accused persons would contend
that there are lot of discrepancies/lapses in the investigation in
not following the procedural aspect while drawing recovery
panchnamas vide Exhs.55,59 and 75. The learned advocates Page 13 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT appearing for the respective accused persons would contend
that the Investigating Officer - P.W.19 did not hand over the
panchnamas and seized fake currency notes to the concerned
police station and recovery panchnamas drawn by the said
witness were not dictated by the panchas and the said fake
currency notes ought to have been sent to the Reserve Bank of
India or some other competent agency for its examination. The
learned advocates appearing for the respective accused
persons contend that the F.S.L. has examined only five notes
and the report of F.S.L. is also silent in respect of the quality of
paper, colour, thread, water mark, printing and other relevant
aspects of the said fake currency notes. The learned advocates
appearing for the respective accused persons would contend
that there is no iota of evidence as to ownership of the house
from where, computer, hard disk and printer etc. were
recovered under discovery panchnama Exh.111 drawn in
connection with the offence registered with Bavla Police
Station vide C.R.No.91 of 2006. The learned advocates
appearing for the respective accused persons would contend
that the 'Lakh' seal affixed under the various recovery
panchnamas, was not found by F.S.L. The learned advocates
appearing for the respective accused persons would contend
that the accused Nos.4 to 7 of Sessions Case No.9 of 2007 and
accused-Mr.Virendra @ Viru Manilal Darji of Sessions Case
No.69 of 2007 came to be arrested on the strength of
statements of co-accused only and no further evidence was
collected by the Investigating Agency and, therefore, lot of
miscarriage of justice has been caused to the accused Nos.4 to
7 of Sessions Case No.9 of 2007 and accused-Mr.Virendra @
Viru Manilal Darji of Sessions Case No.69 of 2007, who
remained in judicial custody for a period of about 1 year or so. The learned advocates appearing for the respective accused
persons would contend that P.W.19-Mr.Mahavirsinh Navalsinh
Sarvaiya did not utter a word about drawing of recovery
panchnamas Exhs.55,59 and 75 in his presence and, therefore,
it is submitted that if everything is done by the police officer
i.e. recording of complaint, search and seizure made by the
same officer, would be an infirmity in the case which is bound
to reflect on the credibility of the prosecution case and,
therefore, the prosecution case must fail on this count also.
Lastly, the learned advocates appearing for the respective
accused persons would contend that no question in further
statement with regard to currency notes being fake or
counterfeit, put to any of the accused persons and also no
incriminating circumstances in respect of discovery
panchnama Exh.111 drawn in another offence registered with
Bavla police station vide C.R.No.91 of 2006 has been put to
any of the accused persons but, on the contrary, the learned
trial Judge put identical questions to all the accused persons of
both the sessions cases recorded under Section 313 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, the 'Code') and,
therefore, grave injustice has been caused to the accused
persons apart from non-framing of specific charge against the
accused Nos.4 to 7 of Sessions Case No.9 of 2007 and
accused-Mr.Virendra @ Viru Manilal Darji of Sessions Case
No.69 of 2007. 8. We have heard the submissions made at bar extensively,
examined oral as well as the documentary evidence placed
before the learned trial judge for its consideration so as to
prove the prosecution case and we have minutely examined
findings of fact recorded by the learned trial Judge in coming to Page 15 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT the conclusion as to conviction and acquittal of the accused
persons for the offence in question, as aforesaid. 8.1. After conclusion of hearing by the learned advocates
appearing for the respective parties and before the judgment
is pronounced, learned advocate Ms.S.M. Ahuja appearing for
accused No.7 places on record written submissions which are
ordered to be taken on record and learned A.P.P. Mr.H.K. Patel,
upon filing of such written submissions, stated that the State is
not required to make any further submissions. It appears that
the present accused No.7, who was facing trial in connection
with the F.I.R. registered with Bavla police station vide
C.R.No.91 of 2006 in Sessions Case No.161 of 2006, came to
be acquitted on 16.07.2011. 9. Now, it is right time to appreciate the rival submissions
made at bar. We are conscious of the fact that in the matter of
appreciation of evidence in view of the provisions contained in
the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 and the Evidence Act ,
merely because the panch-witnesses do not support the
prosecution case, the prosecution case need not be thrown
over board as unreliable. Turning hostile on the part of the
panch-witnesses in the criminal trial is not uncommon and it is
also not unknown to the Court. Therefore, if the testimonies of
the police officers, as in the present case, otherwise found to
be true, dependable and reliable, no Court can discard the
same on the ground that the witnesses are police officers. The
truthfulness and reliability of the Investigating Officers in the
present case further needs to be closely examined because
P.W.19-Mr.Mahavirsinh Navalsinh Sarvaiya has not only
recorded the complaint but has also carried out personal Page 16 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT search of the accused Nos.1 to 3 and seized the fake currency
notes as per recovery panchnama Exhs.55, 59 and 75
respectively. Bearing in mind this aspect of the case, now, let
us scrutinize the evidence as placed on record. Upon scrutiny
of the material evidence relied upon by learned A.P.P. Mr.H.K.
Patel for the State during the course of hearing, we found that
the credibility of the prosecution case is certainly doubtful and
because of serious irregularity, fault and lapses committed by
the Investigating Agency, no finding of guilt of any of the
accused persons can be recorded and, therefore, the
prosecution case miserably fails and we have no option except
to reject the appeals preferred at the instance of the State and
to accept the appeal preferred by the convict-original accused
No.2. The obvious reasons are as under:- Mr.Ramgar Dolatgar Gosai nor transmitted to the control room
though having wireless facility available in the vehicle while on
petrolling. 9.3. The said P.W.19 - Investigating Officer, in his cross-
examination recorded below Exh.143 at page No.7, admits that
recovery panchnamas were recorded by him and panchas
through writer. 9.4. P.W.19 - Investigating Officer admits in his cross-
examination recorded below Exh.143 at page No.7 that no
search of the police staff or panch-witnesses was made before
seizure/recovery of fake notes from accused Nos.1 to 3. 9.5. The said P.W.19 - Investigating Officer admits that
he has not mentioned serial numbers of fake notes recovered
from accused No.1 in the F.I.R. at Exh.144 itself. 9.6. The said P.W.19 - Investigating Officer admits that
no muddamal or any incriminating material were recovered
from accused Nos.4 - Mr.Pravin Najabhai Vaghela, accused
No.5 - Mr.Jivraj Dhulabhai Vala, accused No.6 - Mr.Pravin Jeram
Chopda Patel of Sessions Case No.9 of 2007 and accused -
Virendra @ Viru Manilal Darji of Sessions Case Nos.69 of 2007. 9.7. The said P.W.19 - Investigating Officer admits that
he has not made any report to the Reserve Bank of India or
any other competent authority so as to verify whether the
notes in question were counterfeit or not? 9.8. Surprisingly, P.W.19 - Investigating Officer was not
shown recovery panchnama at Exhs.55, 59 and 75 so as to
testify before the Court that he has drawn the panchnamas in
presence of the panch-witnesses. This fact becomes relevant
because of panch-witnesses of the said panchnamas at
Exhs.55,59 and 75 turned hostile and the Court is called upon
to accept the versions of police officers only. We fail to
understand as to why, the learned prosecutor in-charge of the
case, did not draw attention of the said P.W.19 - Investigating Page 18 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT Officer to prove that under his supervision and direction,
recovery panchnamas at Exhs.55,59 and 75 were drawn. The
said aspect is relevant because the accused persons are
charged for the offence of possessing fake currency notes and
the learned trial Judge relied upon the said panchnamas while
recording finding of guilt. 9.9. The prosecution case qua accused Nos.4 to 7 of
Sessions Case Nos.9 of 2007 as well as accused - Mr.Virendra
@ Viru Manilal Darji of Sessions Case Nos.69 of 2007 rests on
statement made by the co-accused persons to P.W.19-
Mr.Mahavirsinh Navalsinh Sarvaiya. Section 25 of the Indian
Evidence Act provides "no confession made to a police officer
shall be proved as against the person accused of any offence".
The terms of Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act are
imperative. The confession made to a police officer under no
circumstances is admissible in evidence against the accused.
In the case on hand, all the confessions connecting the other
accused persons were made when the respective accused
persons were in police custody. In the case on hand, Section
27 of the Indian Evidence Act has no applicability because
nothing has been discovered in consequence of information
received from the accused persons so as to believe recovery of
fake currency notes from the possession of the said accused
person Nos.1 to 3. 9.10. The prosecution witnesses, mainly the police
officers, in terms, deposed that the fake currency notes, which
were seized, were placed in one plastic jar and was sealed with
'Lakh' and such fact is recorded in the recovery panchnamas
Exhs.55,59 and 75 and all the police personnel deposed in that Page 19 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT line. Whereas, P.W.18 - Mr.Mukeshbhai Nandshankar Joshi,
whose evidence is recorded below Exh.115, admits in cross-
examination that the sample muddamal articles, which were
sent to F.S.L., did not bear any 'Lakh'. The said witness further
admits that he has examined 5 to 7 fake currency notes only.
9.11. The Investigating Officer of the present offence
being C.R.No.252 of 2006 registered with Malaviyanagar police
station, Rajkot relied upon F.S.L. Report Exh.169 which was
prepared for the offence registered with Bavla police station
vide C.R.No.91 of 2006 in respect of the fake currency notes
recovered as per discovery panchnama Exh.111 drawn in the
said offence. Admittedly, muddamal i.e. fake currency notes
seized/recovered from the possession of the accused Nos.1 to
3 and F.S.L. Report Exh.169, indicate that the said currency
notes recovered under recovery panchnamas vide Exhs.55,59
and 75 were not printed from the computer and printer seized
as per panchnama Exh.72. Meaning thereby, the prosecution
case rests on the F.S.L. Report Exh.169 prepared on the basis
of the muddamal recovered as per panchnama Exh.111 drawn
for the offence registered vide C.R.No.91 of 2006 with Bavla
police station. Neither the panchas of discovery panchnama
Exh.111 supported the prosecution case nor the prosecution
brought on record the fact as to ownership of the house from
where, the computer, printer etc. were recovered at the
instance of the accused No.7 nor examined the owner of the
house, namely, Mr.Kiranbhai to prove that incriminating
muddamal as per panchnama Exh.111 was recovered at the
instance of accused No.7 from the said house. The said
discovery panchnama Exh.111 drawn with reference to the
offence registered with Bavla police station vide C.R.No.91 of
2006 cannot be treated as valuable piece of evidence and such Page 20 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT discovery panchnama can be treated as piece of corroborative
evidence and, therefore, no reliance can be placed on such
piece of evidence to hold accused Nos.1 to 3 guilty for the
offence in question. In order to enable the Court to safely rely
upon the evidence of recovery of incriminating fact/materials
at the instance of the accused No.7, as contemplated under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, it is necessary that the
exact words attributed to the accused No.7 as statement made
by him be brought on record and for this purpose, the panch-
witnesses as well as the Investigating Officer are obliged to
depose in their evidence an exact statement and not by
merely stating that discovery panchnama of computer set,
through which, the fake currency notes were printed was
drawn and accused No.7 was willing to take it out from a
particular place. Admittedly, one of the panchas, namely,
P.W.16-Mr.Nalinbhai Chimanbhai Makwana, turned hostile and
the Investigating Officer in-charge of the offence registered
with Bavla police station vide C.R.No.91 of 2006 has not
deposed anything about statement that the disputed currency
notes were printed through computer set discovered as per
panchnama Exh.111. On the contrary, P.W.17-Mr.Rajeshkumar
Ramjibhai Limbad-Investigating Officer, who was examined
below Exh.113, in terms, states that accused No.7 desirous to
show the place which he has kept on rent before 4 days of
drawing of discovery panchnama Exh.111. In the said
evidence, it is deposed by the said Investigating Officer to the
effect that the accused No.7 stated that he is willing to
produce the computer set through which, he printed the notes
with reference to the offence registered with Bavla police
station vide C.R.No.91 of 2006 and not with reference to the
disputed notes of the present offence registered vide Page 21 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT C.R.No.252 of 2006. Thus, it would not suggest that the
accused No.7 indicated anything about printing of disputed
notes in the computer set discovered as per panchnama
Exh.111. Therefore, the learned trial Judge has committed
serious error in placing reliance on this discovery panchnama
Exh.111 which does not prove anything with reference to the
present offence. 9.12. P.W.20 - Mr.Satishchandra Ganpatram Khandlaval,
whose deposition recorded below Exh.168, was serving as
Deputy Director at F.S.L., Ahmedabad at the relevant time and
in his cross-examination at page-4, he admits that he has not
verified the muddamal notes which were subject matter of
F.S.L. Report Exh.169 forming part of materials collected with
reference to the offence registered vide C.R.No.91 of 2006 with
Bavla police station. 9.13. Apart from what has been discussed hereinabove,
for the purpose of bringing home the guilt under Section 489B of I.P.C., the knowledge or reason to believe the currency
notes to be forged or counterfeit has to be established by the
prosecution. Similarly, for the purpose of bringing home the
guilt under Section 489C of I.P.C., the knowledge or reason to
believe and the intention to use the forged or counterfeit
currency note as genuine or its possibility of being so used
must be established against the accused. When pointedly we
asked, learned A.P.P. Mr.H.K. Patel for the State was unable to
lay his finger on such evidence or findings against the accused
persons. In this connection, it is worthwhile to extract the
observations made by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of
Umashanker V/s. State of Chhattisgarh reported in 2001 Page 22 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT CRI.L.J. 4696 wherein, in para 8, it is held as under:- 9.14. As noticed hereinabove, the conviction of the
accused No.2 by the trial Court is under Sections 489B and 489C of I.P.C. which read as under:- 9.15. Further, upon perusal of the provisions, extracted
above, shows that mens rea of the offences under Section
489B and 489C is "knowing or having reason to believe the
currency notes or bank notes are forged or counterfeit".
Without the aforementioned mens rea, selling, buying or
receiving from another person or otherwise trafficking in or
used as genuine forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank
notes is not enough to constitute offence under Section 489B of I.P.C. and so also, possessing or even intending to use any
forged or counterfeit currency-notes or bank-notes is not
sufficient to make out a case under Section 489-C in the
absence of the mens rea. No material is brought on record by
the prosecution to show that the convicted-accused Nos.1 to 3
had requisite mens rea. Further, it is also not shown that any
specific question with regard to the currency notes being fake
or counterfeit, was put to any of the accused persons in their
examination under Section 313 of the Code. 9.16. In criminal jurisprudence, the case of the
prosecution would rest on its own strength and while dealing
with the serious question of guilt or innocence of the persons
charged with the crime, the onus of proving everything
essential to the establishment of charge against the accused
persons lies on the prosecution. There must be a clear proof of
the corpus delicti and hypothesis of guilt should be consistent
with all the facts proved. In the case on hand, the learned trial
Judge influenced by three recovery panchnamas vide
Exhs.55,59 and 75 whereby, the disputed notes were
recovered from the possession of the accused Nos.1 to 3. Mere
possession would not be sufficient to draw presumption that
the notes are counterfeit. Upon our reanalysis of the entire
evidence on record, learned A.P.P. Mr.H.K. Patel could not
show that any of the accused Nos.1 to 3 had intention to use
the said notes as genuine and further, the prosecution could
not bring any transaction of the accused with any other
person. In the impugned judgment, the learned trial Judge
found that if those notes were used in the market, then, it
would have destroyed the economy and further, if such notes
were received by any innocent person then, such innocent
person may become victim of the offence. These findings are
nothing but based on assumption or surmises and without any
evidence on record, the learned trial Judge could not draw such
inferences when the prosecution failed to establish that the
accused persons were intending to use the said currency notes
as genuine and further, actually, any notes were used by any
of the accused person. Therefore, the accused persons, more
particularly, accused Nos.1 to 3, cannot be convicted under
Sections 489B and 489C of I.P.C. 9.17. The above irregularities, lapses or fault appear in
the investigation coupled with the fact that P.W.19-
Mr.Mahavirsinh Navalsinh Sarvaiya, who is the complainant
and also Investigating Officer, failed to discharge his duty in a
legal manner and, therefore, the same would be the infirmity
in the present case which reflects on the credibility of the
prosecution case. 9.18. Learned A.P.P. Mr.H.K. Patel appearing for the State
could not point out any material or evidence gathered by the
Investigating Agency so as to sustain the charge of conspiracy
alleged to have been hatched by the accused persons of both
the Sessions Cases. Even for the sake of allegation, we have
not found that there is any charge of conspiracy alleged in the
evidence led before the learned trial Court or even in the
police papers. 10. From the discussion made hereinabove, it is quite clear
that the entire prosecution case rests on the discovery
panchnama Exh.111 drawn by P.W.17 in respect of the offence
registered with Bavla police station vide C.R.No.91 of 2006.
Surprisingly and shockingly, F.S.L. Report Exh.169 read with
oral evidence of Officer-P.W.18-Mr.Mukeshbhai Nandshankar
Joshi discloses that the fake notes recovered as per recovery
panchnama Exhs.55,59 and 75 were printed in the computer
set discovered in pursuance to the panchnama Exh.111 drawn
while investigating the offence registered vide C.R.No.91 of
2006 with Bavla police station whereas, P.W.17 - Investigating
Officer of the said crime states before the Court that the
accused No.7 produced the computer set wherein, fake notes Page 26 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT concerning the offence being C.R.No.91 of 2006 were printed.
Such serious contradictory evidence on record does not inspire
any confidence in our mind so as to believe the prosecution
case as projected before the trial Court. The prosecution failed
to prove recovery panchnama Exhs.55,59 and 75 and no
reliance can be placed on such panchnamas because the fake
notes, which are alleged to have been printed in the computer
set recovered in pursuance to panchnama Exh.72, were not
found fake by the F.S.L. as per Report Exh.122. In other words,
the entire prosecution case rests on panchnama Exh.111
drawn with reference to offence registered vide C.R.No.91 of
2006 with Bavla police station. In that view of the matter, it
takes us to consider serious lapses and its consequential
effects resulted because of the failure on the part of the
learned Sessions Judge in taking bare minimum care while
framing charge. If the learned Sessions Judge would have
shown minimum alertness, accused Nos.4 to 6 would not have
been deprived of their liberty and would not have to remain
behind the bar for a period of one year. 11. The gist of the charge as framed by the learned Principal
District and Sessions Judge, Rajkot in Sessions Case No.9 of
2007 is required to be considered. The charge framed by
learned Sessions Judge-Mr.M.J. Thakkar refers to how and in
what manner, the fake currency notes were recovered from
the accused Nos.1 to 3 at the place and time mentioned and it
is vaguely stated that all the accused persons hatched criminal
conspiracy in collusion with one another and with the
knowledge that the said currency notes are counterfeit and
further, all the accused persons used them as genuine
currency notes and helped one another to circulate the said Page 27 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT counterfeit currency notes in the market. The charge, as
framed, on the face of it, does not disclose or state as to what
role is played by accused Nos.4 to 7 of Sessions Case No.9 of
2007 or what material found from their possession or any
other relevant material being put to notice of the said accused
persons with reference to offence punishable under Sections
489A to 489D of I.P.C. Not only that, no specific charge under Section 120B of I.P.C. is framed against all or any of the
accused persons except use of Sections 489A to 489D and also Section 120B of I.P.C. in the charge. 12. It is apparent that the accused Nos.2 to 7 came to be
arrested for the offence on the basis of the statements made
by the fellow accused and, more particularly, accused Nos.4 to
6 were put to trial without any evidence, direct or indirect. On
the date when the charge was framed i.e. on 18.05.2007, the
learned Sessions Judge has no occasion to refer to the F.S.L.
Report at Exh.169 as it came on record only on 31.05.2007
and similarly, discovery panchnama Exh.111 dated 26.06.2006
was produced in the Record and Proceedings of Sessions Case
No.69 of 2007 on 15.11.2007. As such, these two documents
and also recovery panchnamas at Exhs.55,59 and 75 do not
connect the accused Nos.4 to 6 in any manner with the
offence. Therefore, merely on the basis of the statements of
co-accused made before the police, which are inadmissible in
evidence, charge could not be framed under Sections 489A to
489D read with Section 120B of I.P.C. In the present case,
except statements of the co-accused persons made before the
police, no other material was brought or was available in the
police papers which could form substantive legal evidence on
the basis whereof, a charge could be framed. Therefore, in the Page 28 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT matter of criminal prosecution, on such statements of co-
accused in absence of any iota of corroborative evidence, the
learned Sessions Judge ought not to have framed the charge
against the accused Nos.4 to 6. 13. As framing of charge directly affects person's liberty
substantially, the Court has to apply its mind to the question
whether or not, there is any ground for presuming the
commission of offence by the accused. In other words, whether
the material brought on record would reasonably connect the
accused with the crime and no more is required to be inquired
into. In a series of pronouncements of the Hon'ble Apex Court,
it is held that an order framing a charge affects person's liberty
substantially and, therefore, it is the duty of the Court to
consider judiciously whether the material warrants the framing
of the charge. The purpose of framing of charges is that the
accused should be informed with certainty and accuracy of the
charge brought against him. The essential part of law is not on
any technical formula of words but the reality, whether the
matter was explained to the accused and whether he
understood what he was being tried for. When we say so, we
are conscious of the fact that we have provisions like Sections
215 and 264 in the Code. Upon analysis and reassessment of
evidence, we are of the opinion that neither any prejudice has
been caused nor has there been any failure of justice in non-
framing of specific charge has resulted, at the end of trial to
the accused persons. But, so far as accused Nos.4 to 7 of
Sessions Case No.9 of 2007 and accused-Mr.Virendra @ Viru
Manilal Darji of Sessions Case No.69 of 2007, who are
acquitted from the charges of offence punishable under
Sections 489A to 489D and Section 120B of I.P.C., we were Page 29 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT required to look into this part of matter because in Criminal
Appeal No.761 of 2012 and, more particularly, in ground 'H',
the State of Gujarat has taken a ground that the learned trial
Judge failed to appreciate that the names of accused Nos.4 to
7 of Sessions Case No.9 of 2007 and accused-Mr.Virendra @
Viru Manilal Darji of Sessions Case No.69 of 2007 shown by the
Investigating Agency as accused and no evidence against
them is coming forth in the course of trial to prove the guilt of
the said accused persons. According to the State, in such
eventuality, it is bounden duty of the learned trial Judge to
inquire in detail into the matter and under what circumstances
either any oral or any documentary evidence not coming forth
in support of the prosecution case. It is contended by the State
in the said ground that if the same has happened because of
omission, commission or dereliction of duty on the part of the
prosecution witnesses or the Investigating Agency or other
officer concerned, the learned trial Judge is required to ensure
that miscarriage of justice is avoided. Therefore, it is urged to
reverse the acquittal order passed by the learned trial Judge
and direct further inquiry into the matter and retrial as per the
legal provisions applicable to the facts of the case to avoid
miscarriage of justice and to do substantial justice. 14. We are not, in any manner, disagreement with such
ground taken in the memo of appeal but, while considering
such ground, we cannot overlook the provisions contained in
Section 464 of the Code which reads as under:- 15. Upon reassessment and re-appreciation of evidence, on
the basis of the material placed on record and on its face
value, we do not see that any failure of justice has, in fact,
been occasioned so as to direct a new trial to be held upon a
charge framed in the manner required to be framed in view of
Section 489A to 489D read with Section 120B of I.P.C. But, at
the same time, we cannot shut our eyes to the fact as to
carelessness and negligence on the part of the learned Judicial
Officer, who is holding post of Sessions Judge and who
behaved in a very casual and mechanical manner in the matter
of framing charge inasmuch as, there was no iota of evidence
directly, indirectly or remotely connecting the accused Nos.4 to
6 of Sessions Case Nos.9 of 2007 with the offence. It is an
admitted fact that the said accused persons of Sessions Case Page 31 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT No.9 of 2007 i.e. accused No.4-Mr.Pravinbhai Najabhai
Waghela came to be arrested on 14.09.2006 and enlarged on
bail on 14.08.2007, accused No.5-Mr.Jivaraj Dhulabhai Vala
came to be arrested on 14.09.2006 and enlarged on bail on
15.05.2008, accused No.6-Mr.Pravin Jeram Chopada Patel
came to be arrested on 03.10.2006 and enlarged on bail on
17.10.2007. If the learned Sessions Judge has applied his mind
to the material placed along with the chargesheet, he would
have definitely observed that there was no F.S.L. Report
Exh.169 and panchnama Exh.111 of Bavla police station on the
date when, the charge was framed and on the top of it, there
was no evidence qua the said accused persons except the
police statement of co-accused so as to frame charge against
them for any of the offences. If at the relevant time, the
learned Sessions Judge would have shown minimum vigilance
or alertness, he would have discharged the said accused
persons on the date of framing of charge i.e. 18.05.2007 and
he could have protected the personal liberty of the said
accused persons at that stage only. The mode and manner in
which the charge is framed, discloses that the learned Sessions
Judge has framed the charge without reading materials or
without putting minimum efforts to find out whether the
evidence produced before him, gives rise to suspicion of
commission of any offence by the said accused persons. He
was legally duty bound to discharge the accused persons but,
it is only because of his carelessness and negligent judicial
conduct, the said accused persons remained behind the bar
without any evidence on record and thus, they deprived of
their personal liberty for no fault. Therefore, we do not find
that there is any failure of justice so as to order retrial of the
case, as suggested by the learned A.P.P. appearing for the Page 32 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT State but, we definitely suggest to the Hon'ble the Acting Chief
Justice of the High Court of Gujarat to take suitable action qua
the learned Sessions Judge for his casual and mechanical
approach in such a serious matter and, more particularly, in
the matter of framing charge, which resulted into deprivation
of the personal liberty of the above accused persons for about
one year. The said period can never be considered to be a
small period in one's life, apart from social stigma and other
personal pains and sufferings suffered by the accused persons
and their family members. Therefore, we direct the Registrar
General to place the copy of this judgment before the Hon'ble
the Acting Chief Justice and other Hon'ble Judges of this Court
for taking suitable administrative/disciplinary action against
learned Sessions Judge - Mr.M.J. Thakkar as may deem fit and
proper. 16. For the forgoing reasons, we have no option but to hold
that the charges framed under Sections 489B and 489C of
I.P.C. are not proved qua accused No.2 and, therefore, we set
aside conviction and sentence imposed upon the accused No.2
of Criminal Appeal No.2657 of 2008 and acquit him of the said
charges. Since the appellant of Criminal Appeal No.2657 of
2008 is on bail, his bail bond shall stands cancelled and fine, if
paid, be refunded to him. Since we have not believed the
prosecution case against any of the accused persons and as
accused Nos.1 and 3 have not challenged the conviction and
already suffered conviction imposed upon them, we do not find
any case against accused Nos.1 and 3 for enhancement and
accordingly, the appeal filed by the State for enhancement is
liable to be dismissed qua accused Nos.1 to 3 and is
accordingly dismissed. Similarly, since we do not find any Page 33 of 34 R/CR.A/2657/2008 CAV JUDGMENT merits, perversity or compelling reasons to defer acquittal
order of the accused persons with respect to the offences, as
aforesaid, Criminal Appeal No.761 of 2012 preferred by the
State also deserves to be dismissed and is accordingly
dismissed. 17. While parting, the Registrar General is directed to comply
with the directions issued in paragraph No.15 of this judgment
immediately. Registry is also directed to place copy of this
judgment before the Hon'ble the Acting Chief Justice for
seeking orders to circulate copy of this judgment amongst all
the Sessions Judges. 18. Registry to maintain copy of this judgment in each
appeal. (ANANT S.DAVE, J.)

 (S.H.VORA, J.)
Hitesh Page 34 of 34