1. Brief facts of the case are that Amit Kumar and Nitin Sharma submitted
 a joint complaint alongwith a CD and transcript of the sting operation
 conducted by them against the accused in which it was stated that Amit
 Kumar was undergoing a case of negligent driving under section 279 IPC at PS Shakarpur and his car bearing no. DL­3CBS­9699 was
 impounded in PS Shakarpur for one month. He further stated that
 whenever he tried to meet IO, he used to give lame excuses. Thereafter,
 on 01.02.2014, finally he was called by the accused to come and meet CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 1 him on 02.02.2014 for his bail and when he reached the PS, he was
 asked to sign some official documents required for bail and a demand of
 Rs.10,000/­ was made by the accused to get bail finally. Amit Kumar
 further submitted that he was not in a condition to pay the bribe amount.
 Thereafter, accused threatened him with dire consequences and stated
 that his work would not be done without bribe. He further told the
 accused that he was having Rs.2,000/­, then the accused forcefully took
 that money from Amit Kumar. Amit Kumar further stated that he was
 having the recording of taking bribe by accused in his mobile phone.
 Statement of Amit Kumar was also signed by Nitin Sharma and on that
 statement, the present FIR was registered. During investigation, the
 statement of witnesses were recorded and the CD/DVD of the sting
 operation, transcript as well as the original instrument i.e. apple i­phone
 5 was seized. Voice sample of accused Vinod Kumar and Nitin Sharma
 were taken at CFSL, Lodhi Road and same were sent alongwith original
 instrument to CFSL, Lodhi Road for examination and it was opined that
 there was no alteration or editing in the footages contained in CD/DVD.
 Regarding voice matching, it was opined that the voices are probable
 voices of Nitin Sharma and accused Vinod Kumar. Thereafter,
 prosecution sanction was obtained from the competent authority and
 after conclusion of the investigation, the present chargesheet was filed. 2. Cognizance for the offence under section 7 / 13 of Prevention of
 Corruption Act, 1988, against accused Vinod Kumar was taken on
 31.10.2015. Thereafter, charge against accused Vinod Kumar was
 framed for the offences punishable under section 7 and 13(1)(d) of PC
 Act read with section 13(2) PC Act, to which accused pleaded not guilty
 and claimed trial. 3. Prosecution in support of its case has examined 17 witnesses and
 accused has examined 4 witnesses in his defence. 4. PW­1 ASI Dalip Singh is the duty officer who has registered the FIR no.
 8/14 Ex.PW1/B on the basis of Rukka Ex.PW1/A, on 14.02.2014. 5. PW­2 Nitin Sharma, complainant deposed that in the year 2014, his
 friend Amit Kumar was involved in an accident case of PS Shakarpur
 and he was informed by Amit Kumar regarding his false implication and
 the fact that his vehicle was also impounded. He further stated that Amit
 Kumar told him that when he spoke to the IO ASI Vinod Kumar
 (accused) regarding his vehicle, the IO/accused told him that first he has
 to obtain bail and then his vehicle would be released. But no time was
 fixed for bail. He further deposed that finally on 01.02.2014, Amit
 Kumar was called by ASI Vinod Kumar/IO/accused to come to PS for
 bail on 02.02.2014. He further stated that on 02.02.2014, he alongwith
 Amit Kumar and surety Ismail Khan went to PS Shakurpur at 10:00 am.
 After reaching the PS, they met the accused who took them in a room
 and accused asked Amit Kumar to show him the documents brought for
 bail and obtained signatures of Amit Kumar and Ismail Khan on certain
 papers. He further deposed that when paper work was going on, in the
 meanwhile the accused demanded Rs.10,000/­ on which Amit Kumar
 told that he was not in a condition to pay Rs.10,000/­, then the accused
 asked as to how much money he was carrying, upon which Amit Kumar
 told him that he was carrying Rs.2,000/­. Thereafter, accused got up and
 took out Rs.2,000/­ from the pocket of Amit Kumar forcefully. PW­2
 deposed that he was surprised to see the conduct of the accused and then,
 he started recording the conversation between himself and the accused
 from his apple mobile phone. He further deposed that in the CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 3 conversation, the accused can be heard saying that Rs.2,000/­ would be
 consumed in documentation work and verification of documents itself
 and the accused further told him to bring the balance amount or else he
 would leave the work pending and would return after four days leave and
 then would do the work. PW­2 further deposed that he called his brother
 Rajan Sharma but he did not respond to his call and then he told the
 accused to take Rs.1,000/­ and told him that he would pay the balance
 amount later. Thereafter, they left the PS and called the SHO, PS
 Shakarpur in the evening and apprised him about the incident who told
 that there were two officials by the name Vinod Kumar and he has to
 check as to who had demanded and accepted the money. PW­2 further
 deposed that SHO, PS Shakarpur told that he had verified and found that
 ASI Vinod Kumar had demanded and accepted the money and
 thereafter, they filed the complaint Ex.PW2/A in the Vigilance Branch,
 Barakhamba Road. He further deposed that the complaint was
 accompanied with the transcript Ex.PW2/B and CD and was signed
 by PW­2 as well as Amit Kumar. He further deposed that the CD was
 prepared on the computer and on the basis of recordings made on the
 apple mobile i­phone 5. He further stated that his complaint as well as
 transcript were examined and the conversation in the CD was heard and
 thereafter, the FIR was registered and the i­phone was seized vide
 Ex.PW2/C. He further deposed that during investigation, his voice
 sample was also taken and the micro chip containing his voice sample
 was seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW2/D and the CD was seized vide
 seizure memo Ex.PW2/E. Certificate under section 65B of Indian
 Evidence Act regarding correctness of the recording of the mobile phone
 as well as the contents of the CD/DVD is Ex.PW2/F. PW­2 further CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 4 deposed that the accused told him that "kisi se bhi pata kar lo ki jamanat
 ke kitne paise lagte hai or ye file 2000 rupaiye kha jayegi". He further
 deposed that the accused told him that in case the balance amount would
 not be paid, he would delay the proceedings as he was proceeding on
 leave. He further deposed that he told the accused that he was carrying
 Rs.1,000/­ which he could give him and the rest of the amount would be
 brought later, on which accused told him to bring the entire balance
 amount and pay it in one go. The accused also told them to do the
 needful at the earliest as he was proceeding on leave. He further stated
 that he had recorded the conversation with the accused through mobile I­
 phone having SIM number 8447273252. The arrest memo of the formal
 arrest of Amit Kumar is Ex.PW4/A. PW­2 also identified his i­phone
 Ex.P1 and data cable Ex.P2. PW­2 further deposed that even after the
 present case, the accused has several times tried to contact him and
 pressurized him to take money and finish the present case and also
 threatened him. PW­2 also identified his voice as well as voice of the
 accused in the audio­video conversations contained in the mobile phone
 and deposed that the conversation contained in the mobile phone and
 played in the court is the same conversation which had taken place on
 the date of incident and the same are as per the transcript Ex.PW2/D.
 PW­2 also identified the CD Ex.P6 to be the same containing the
 recording contained in the I­phone and sent to the investigating agency.
 PW­2 also identified the micro chip Ex.PW8/S2 containing his voice
 sample. 6. During the cross­examination on behalf of accused, PW­2 deposed that
 Ex.PW2/A was written by him in his handwriting. He further deposed
 that Amit Kumar had met him on 02.02.2014 between 09:00 AM to CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 5 10:00 AM and they had reached the PS around 10:00 AM. He further
 deposed that he had met Ismail Khan in front of the PS and he had
 accompanied them when they went inside the PS. He further deposed
 that they remained in the accused's room for approximately 50 minutes
 to one hour. He further deposed that when he was recording the
 incident, one person had come inside the room and had spoken to the
 accused and had left. He further deposed that when the accused used to
 get up from the chair, he used to stop the recording and thereafter, when
 accused used to sit on the chair, he used to start the new recording,
 therefore, the recordings were done in three parts. He denied the
 suggestion that no demand was made by the accused from him or Amit
 Kumar. He denied the suggestion that he concocted a story of Rs.2,000/­
 being taken out from the pocket of Amit Kumar forcefully. He denied
 the suggestion that he has supplied a false CD alongwith a false
 complaint. During the cross­examination, Ld. Counsel for the accused
 has also put certain conversation to the witness in order to substantiate
 that the witness was an extortionist and was demanding money from the
 accused. However, the witness denied his voice and stated that it was
 the accused who was pressurizing him for settlement. 7. PW­3 Amit Kumar deposed that a case was registered against him in PS
 Shakarpur regarding rash driving and in connection with the said FIR,
 his vehicle i.e. Santro car bearing registration no. 9699 was seized and
 the accused was the IO of the said case. He further deposed that he was
 only aware of the fact that his vehicle was seized but he was not aware
 that he was implicated in that case. He further deposed that on
 01.02.2014, he spoke to the accused who called him on 02.02.2014 in
 the PS Shakarpur. He further deposed that on 02.02.2014, he alongwith CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 6 Nitin and his surety Ismail Khan went to the PS at around 10:00 am and
 met the accused who took them to his room and did some paper work
 and asked whether they had come prepared. He further deposed that
 whenever the accused used to talk to him prior to 02.02.2014, he was
 asked to come prepared and when he asked the accused as to what he
 meant by "Taiyar hokar aaye ho", the accused told them that Rs.10,000/­
 should be paid for bail and then only they would be released. However,
 he deposed that he was not carrying Rs.10,000/­, then accused asked as
 to how much amount he was carrying upon which, PW­3 told the
 accused that he was carrying Rs.2,000/­. Thereafter, accused got up
 from his chair and forcefully took Rs.2,000/­ from him. He further
 deposed that accused then obtained their signature on bail papers and
 specifically directed them not to put the date and time on the same and
 accused told that Rs.2,000/­ would be spent on the paper work itself. He
 further deposed that his friend Nitin started recording the conversation
 between the accused and Nitin. He further deposed that they told the
 accused that they will bring the balance money and left. He further
 deposed that Nitin tried to contact the SHO and finally a complaint was
 lodged. PW­3 identified his signatures on the complaint Ex.PW2/A as
 well as transcript Ex.PW2/B. PW­3 further deposed that Nitin handed
 over the i­phone alongwith the data cable in which the conversation was
 recorded to the IO in his presence which was seized vide memo
 Ex.PW2/C. He also identified his signature on his arrest memo
 Ex.PW4/A in FIR No.22/14, PS Shakarpur (accident case) as well as on
 his personal search memo Ex.PW4/B. PW­3 also identified his
 signatures on the seizure memo of RC of Santro car bearing no. DL­
 3CBF­9699 Ex.PW4/C. He also identified the seizure memo of CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 7 insurance of car bearing no. DL­3CBF­9699 Ex.PW4/E and copy of his
 DL is Ex.PW4/D. Bail bond and personal bond are Ex.PW4/DA and
 seizure memo of CD is Ex.PW2/E. PW­3 further deposed that he can
 identify his voice in the recording if shown to him. The DVD Ex.P5 was
 played on the computer during his testimony containing three video files
 and the witness stated that the said video files were of the recording
 which was done by Nitin when he alongwith Ismail and Nitin were
 present in the room and accused had asked them "Taiyar hokar aaye
 ho". He further deposed that the recordings were of the incident of the
 transaction of bribe and he also identified voice of the accused and Nitin.
 He also deposed that the accused can be heard saying "2000 to file hi
 kha jayegi" and identified the voice of accused. He identified the mobile
 phone Ex.P1 and the data cable Ex.P2 which were used by his friend
 Nitin for recording the incident and were seized by the IO and stated that
 Ex.PW2/B is the correct transcript of the conversation in the audio­video
 files. 8. During the cross­examination by Ld. Counsel for the accused, PW­3
 deposed that Santro car in question was registered in the name of his
 father and his father had already expired in the year 2013 and he had not
 got the vehicle transferred in his name. He further deposed that he had
 spoken to the accused several times but the accused used to say that he
 did not have time and finally asked on 01.02.2014 to come on
 02.02.2014. He further deposed that Nitin had accompanied him and
 Ismail had reached the PS directly. He also deposed that he alongwith
 Nitin stayed in the room of accused for about 50­55 minutes and accused
 had enquired from him about the documents. He further deposed that
 the accused had asked them as to whether they had come prepared and CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 8 stated "Taiyar hokar aaye ho". He further deposed that the complaint
 was written by Nitin and the same was gone through by him before
 signing the same. He further deposed that the accused had asked for
 identity card and RC from Ismail. On questioning as to whether one
 constable was present in the room, the witness answered that one
 constable had come for a while and had left after making brief enquiry
 who had spoken to the accused only and had not signed any document in
 their presence. He further deposed that Nitin started recording the
 conversation after Rs.2,000/­ were taken by the accused from his pocket.
 He denied the suggestion that on that day no conversation regarding
 Rs.10,000/­ or Rs.2,000/­ had taken place. He further denied the
 suggestion that on 02.02.2014, victim of the incident Rahul Lumba was
 also present when they had gone to meet the accused on 02.02.2014 or
 that he had identified him. On being confronted with the document
 Ex.PW4/A, Ex.PW4/C, Ex.PW4/D, Ex.PW4/E and Ex.PW4/DA, he
 stated that Rahul Lumba had not signed in their presence. He further
 deposed that Vijay is his brother. He denied the suggestion that he had
 wrongly identified the voice of the accused at the instance of IO or that
 no conversation took place between him and the accused or that a false
 CD was prepared to implicate the accused falsely. He further denied the
 suggestion that accused never demanded any money from him or Nitin
 or that he had concocted a story to implicate the accused or that he has
 intentionally concealed the presence of Rahul Lumba and Ct. Annu
 Yadav on 02.02.2014 at the time of furnishing of bail bonds. 9. PW­4 Vinod Kumar, Ahlmad in the court of Ld. MM, proved the file of
 case FIR No.22/14, PS Shakarpur, U/s 279 IPC, having the original
 arrest memo Ex.PW4/A, personal search memo Ex.PW4/B, seizure CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 9 memo of RC of Santro car Ex.PW4/C, seizure memo of DL Ex.PW4/D,
 insurance of car Ex.PW4/E, original seizure memo of car Ex.PW4/F.
 During the cross­examination on behalf of accused, he proved the bail
 bond of the accused Amit Kumar Ex.PW4/DA and notice under section
 133 of M.V. Act Ex.PW4/DB. 10. PW­5 ASI Parvesh deposed that on 04.01.2014, he was the duty officer
 and at about 10:55 pm, received a rukka sent by ASI Vinod Kumar, on
 the basis of which he registered the FIR no.22/14 of the accident case
 and made endorsement on the rukka Ex.PW5/A. 11. PW­6 SI Mukesh Rathi proved the bio­data of the accused Ex.PW6/A1
 to Ex.PW6/A5 and the certificate under section 65B of Indian Evidence
 Act regarding its correctness is Ex.PW6/A6. 12. PW­7 Ct. Sikandar Maan deposed that on 25.09.2014, he was posted in
 the Vigilance Branch and on the instructions of IO, he had gone to CFSL
 and collected the exhibits and report which were duly sealed and after
 returning, he had deposited the exhibits with the Malkhana and report
 was handed over to the IO. He further deposed that so long as the
 exhibits remained in his possession, they were not tampered. He further
 deposed that on 05.12.2014, he again joined the investigation of the
 present case and on that day accused was arrested by the IO in his
 presence vide arrest memo Ex.PW7/A and his personal search memo is
 Ex.PW7/B. 13. PW­8 Sunil Kumar deposed that on 03.04.2014 while he was posted as
 Lab Assistant in CFSL, Lodhi Road, he took the voice sample of Nitin
 Sharma as well as accused Vinod Kumar. He further deposed that the
 micro SD card containing the voice sample of Nitin was marked as S2
 and the micro SD card containing the voice sample of Vinod Kumar was CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 10 marked as S1. Both the micro SD cards were converted into pulanda
 which were sealed by the IO with the seal of ST. The micro SD card
 marked as S1 was taken into possession vide seizure memo Ex.PW8/A
 and micro SD card marked as S2 was seized vide Ex.PW2/D. He also
 identified the micro SD card as Ex.PW8/S2 containing the sample voice
 of Nitin Sharma and micro SD card Ex.PW8/S1 containing the sample
 voice of accused Vinod Kumar. 14. Testimony of PW­9 Ravinder Kumar, Lab Assistant, CFSL is also on
 the same lines and he has also deposed on the similar lines regarding
 obtaining of sample voice of accused and Nitin Kumar as deposed by
 PW­8. 15. PW­10 Ct. Upnesh Kumar deposed that on 03.04.2014, he was posted as
 constable in Vigilance Unit and had gone to CFSL, Lodhi Road where
 sample voice of accused Vinod Kumar and Nitin Sharma were taken
 with the assistance of CFSL officials on a microchip. Same were then
 sealed with the seal of ST. Both the pulandas were taken into possession
 vide memo Ex.PW8/A and Ex.PW2/B. He further deposed that on
 22.04.2014, four exhibits were taken by him from Malkhana of PS
 Vigilance and the same were deposited at CFSL, Lodhi Road. He
 further deposed that so long as the exhibits remained in his possession,
 the same were not tampered. 16. PW­11 Mohd. Ismail deposed that in the year 2014, his friend Amit
 Kumar called him in the PS Shakarpur where he stood surety. He further
 deposed that when he reached the PS Shakarpur in the morning, he met
 Amit Kumar and his friend Nitin and they both took him inside the room
 where accused was sitting and accused checked his documents and
 thereafter, the documents asked by the accused were signed by him. He CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 11 further deposed that the accused thereafter, started asking for money
 and stated that the money was required to release the vehicle. Some
 money was also handed over to the accused. However, he did not
 remember whether the same was handed over by Amit or Nitin. He
 further deposed that accused had taken the money in his hand but did not
 notice whether the accused had kept the same. He further deposed that
 he cannot say whether the accused had returned the same as there was
 some conversation going on between them for returning the money. He
 further deposed that the money handed over to the accused was either
 Rs.1,000/­ or Rs.2,000/­. 17. As the witness was not revealing the complete facts, he was cross­
 examined by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State and during the cross­
 examination by Ld. Addl. PP for the State, he deposed that the accused
 was demanding Rs.10,000/­ for releasing on bail and accused had stated
 that "itna to kharcha lagega". He also admitted that he had gone to PS
 Shakarpur on 02.02.2014 and had reached there at about 10:00 am and
 that the accused was the IO in the case FIR No.22/14, U/s 279 IPC . He
 also deposed that the accused had specifically told them not to mention
 the date and time and therefore, the date and time on the documents for
 bail were not filled up. He also deposed that when Amit Kumar had told
 the accused that he was not having so much of money then the accused
 had asked him "tere pass kitne hai" and thereafter, Amit had told him
 that he was having only Rs.2,000/­. He further deposed that Amit
 Kumar had taken out Rs.2,000/­ from his pocket and shown to the
 accused which the accused had taken from Amit. He further
 deposed that certain negotiations regarding scaling down the
 amount was also going on between the accused and Amit. He CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 12 admitted that when Amit was asking the accused to reduce the amount,
 the accused stated that "kisi se pata kar lo jamanat ka kya lagta hai" and
 also stated that "jo 2000 rupaiye tumne diye hai, ye to file hi kha jayegi".
 He further deposed that Nitin had made recording in his phone. PW­11
 has identified his signatures on the bail bond Ex.PW4/DA and FIR
 No.22/14. Three video files in the Apple I­Phone were played during
 the testimony of PW­11 and on seeing the audio­video recordings,
 PW­11 identified them to be the same which relates to the
 transaction of bribe between the accused and Nitin and Amit. PW­
 11 also identified the voice of Nitin and accused. The conversation as
 per the transcript is Ex.PW2/B. 18. During the cross­examination on behalf of accused, PW­11 deposed that
 he reached the PS at around 09:00 am to 10:00 am and that Amit had not
 met any other police official on that day except the accused. He further
 deposed that the entire proceedings took approximately half an hour. He
 denied the suggestion that no money was demanded by the accused
 or anybody or that the accused had not taken any money. He also
 denied the suggestion that the accused never stated that he should not
 mention the date and time on the bail bond or that no conversation
 regarding the money took place in the PS. He denied the suggestion that
 he had identified the recording at the instance of police official or that no
 recording was done on that day. 19. PW­12 Dr. Subrat Kumar Choudhary deposed that he was working as
 Senior Scientific Officer, Grade­II (Physics), CFSL and examined more
 than 425 cases and deposed in more than 100 cases. He further deposed
 that he had received four sealed parcels, specimen seal impression,
 photocopy of transcription of questioned and specimen recordings, CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 13 photocopy of seizure memos for examination and when he received the
 parcels, the seals were intact. He examined the CD, the mobile phone
 and the micro SD cards containing the specimen voice recording of
 Vinod Kumar and Nitin Sharma. He further deposed that auditory and
 spectrographic examination of the questioned and specimen voice
 recordings was carried out and his opinion is in his report dated
 27.05.2014 Ex.PW12/A. He further deposed that on examination,
 voices of speakers Vinod Kumar and Nitin Sharma were found
 tallying with respective questioned voices contained in the Exhibit­1
 i.e. CD and the exhibits were kept in separate envelopes and sealed.
 He further deposed that forwarding authority was intimated for
 collecting the sealed exhibits and voice examination report. The video
 examination report were also sent to the forwarding authority. He
 identified the CD Ex.P6 which he had examined as well as the I­phone
 Ex.P1 and data cable Ex.P2. He identified the micro SD card containing
 the sample voice of Vinod Kumar Ex.PW8/S1 and micro SD card
 containing the sample voice of Nitin Sharma Ex.PW8/S2. 20. During the cross­examination, he admitted that the transcript of the
 questioned voice and the sample voices were also received by him. He
 further deposed that he had not examined the I­phone and the same
 was examined in the Photo Division. He further deposed that he had
 not compared the sample voice with the recording in the I­phone. He
 had compared the sample voice with the questioned voices in the CD.
 He denied the suggestion that no spectrographic examination of the
 questioned voices was conducted in the present case. The copy of his
 spectrographic examination was placed on record during the cross­ CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 14 examination which is Ex.PW12/B. He denied the suggestion that the
 case property was tampered with while the same was lying the unsealed
 condition in his custody. He denied the suggestion that the spectrogram
 of questioned voice and specimen voice are not same. He denied the
 suggestion that no marking was done by him or that the entire
 Ex.PW12/B was prepared by his assistant. He denied the suggestion that
 he has prepared the report only on the basis of transcript supplied by the
 police. 21. PW­13 S. Ingarsal, Senior Scientific Officer, Grade­I, CFSL deposed
 that on 19.05.2014, he received an internal forwarding note from Physics
 Division alongwith two sealed parcels marked Ex.1 and Ex.2 for
 examination of video footage. He had examined the Ex.1 and Ex.2 i.e.
 CD and Apple I­Phone and the three video files contained in the exhibits
 with the help of i­mac system containing final cut express editing
 software. He further deposed that the video footages contained in
 both the exhibits were genuine. He further deposed that all the
 three video files contained in CD are single shot video clips having
 no sign of editing/alteration. He further deposed that video files
 contained in the CD were also found available in I­phone having
 similar characteristics with respect to all elements in the video clips
 including duration of individual clips. He further deposed that all
 the video clips contained in the I­phone are also single shot video
 footage having no sign of editing/alteration between the conversation
 of the video footage. He further deposed that after the examination he
 had sealed the exhibits in two separate parcels with his official seal and
 the report was sent back to the Physic Division alongwith the report. His
 report is Ex.PW13/A. He also identified the DVD Ex.P5 to be the same CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 15 which he had examined and regarding which he had given the report and
 also I­phone Ex.P1 as well as data cable Ex.P2. 22. During the cross­examination, he deposed that he had started examining
 the exhibits on 05.08.2014 and concluded on 29.08.2014 and during this
 period the exhibits were in his custody. He further deposed that there
 were several other files in that almirah and case properties of other cases.
 He further deposed that though the formats of the files in the CD
 and I­phone mobile are different but the contents of the exhibits are
 the same and he had thoroughly examined both the exhibits and
 there was no difference and therefore, the difference in file format
 would not affect the authenticity. He further clarified that the
 resolution may differ, however, it would not make any difference in the
 content of the video. He further deposed that in the report Ex.PW13/A
 there is no mention about any abrupt beginning or abrupt ending as there
 was no sign of abrupt beginning or abrupt ending in the identified video
 recording examined by him. He admitted that all the recordings were of
 less than two minutes each. 23. PW­14 ASI Jaiveer deposed that on 18.02.2014, he was posted at PS
 Shakarpur and case file of FIR No.22/14 was assigned to him and
 thereafter, on 18.02.2014 he was called to Vigilance Office alongwith
 case file and on the request of the IO Insp. Surender Sharma, he had
 supplied him copy of some documents of the case FIR No.22/14. 24. PW­15 Raj Kumar Singh, Addl. Commissioner of Police is the
 sanctioning authority who deposed that in the year 2015, he was posted
 as DCP, PCR. He further deposed that request of the IO for according
 sanction was received by him and after perusing the documents
 including copy of FIR, statements of witnesses, CFSL result, CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 16 transcription etc. and after due application of mind, he found that there
 was sufficient material and was of the opinion that accused should be
 prosecuted and thus, had accorded sanction Ex.PW15/A under section 19 of the PC Act. 25. During the cross­examination, he deposed that he did not give any
 personal hearing to the accused, neither he had called the IO of the case
 FIR No.44/14, PS Shakarpur. He denied the suggestion that he had not
 perused the transcript correctly or that he had not applied his mind and
 accorded sanction in mechanical manner. He further denied the
 suggestion that draft sanction order was produced before him and he
 accorded sanction on the basis of draft sanction order. 26. PW­16 Retired Insp. Surender Sharma deposed that on 14.02.2014,
 investigation of the present case was entrusted to him and he received
 the copy of FIR and complaint of Amit Kumar which was also signed by
 Nitin alongwith the copy of transcript. He further deposed that one CD
 was also handed over to him by the duty officer and he had conducted
 the investigation and recorded the statements of witnesses. He had
 seized the Apple I­Phone alongwith data cable in which the original
 recording was made which was produced by Nitin vide seizure memo
 Ex.PW2/C. He further deposed that the CD containing the recording
 was also played in the presence of witness and recording contained in the
 CD was identified by the witness. The CD was also seized vide seizure
 memo Ex.PW2/E and the transcript Ex.PW2/B was admitted by the
 witness to be correct as per the recording. He further deposed that
 during investigation he had obtained the voice sample of accused Vinod
 Kumar and Nitin Sharma. He further deposed that the voice samples
 were taken at CFSL, Lodhi Road and the voice sample was provided in CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 17 two separate micro chips and the same were also seized and sealed vide
 seizure memo Ex.PW8/A and Ex.PW2/D. He further deposed that
 during investigation the original I­phone, both the micro chips were sent
 to CFSL, Lodhi Road for seeking expert opinion and opined that there
 was no tampering etc. and the voice contained in the recording tallied
 with the sample voices. He also collected the documents of FIR No.
 22/14, U/s 279 IPC and the accused was arrested. He further deposed
 that he sent request letter for grant of sanction Ex.PW15/A. He further
 deposed that he had collected the bio­data of accused and certificate
 under section 65B of Indian Evidence Act from Nitin as well as from the
 duty officer. He also identified the case property during his testimony. 27. During the cross­examination on behalf of accused, PW­16 deposed
 that duty officer sent him copy of FIR which was marked to him by ACP
 L.C. Yadav and during investigation he had heard the recorded
 conversation in the CD. He further deposed that he had visited the PS
 Shakarpur when the accused was on PC remand but could not locate or
 trace any physical evidence during the PC remand of the accused. He
 further deposed that he did not seize the mobile phone of Amit Kumar as
 the same was not required nor he had annexed the CDR of Amit Kumar
 with the chargesheet. He further deposed that the transcript of the
 recording was prepared by the complainant Nitin. He further deposed
 that he had not obtained any permission of the court before taking
 specimen voice of the accused and verbally apprised the accused that the
 specimen voice could be used against him during the trial. He also told
 the accused that in case of denying the sample voice, adverse inference
 could be drawn against him and also explained the pros and cons of the
 specimen voice. He denied the suggestion that he forced the accused to CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 18 give his specimen voice sample and thereby violated Article­20(3) of the
 Constitution of India. He denied the suggestion that he had sent draft
 sanction order to the sanctioning authority alongwith the request letter. 28. PW­17 L.C. Yadav deposed that in the second week of February 2014,
 he was called by DCP, Vigilance in his office where two persons namely
 Amit and Nitin were present who were making complaints regarding
 demand of bribe by IO of an accident case of PS Shakarpur. He further
 deposed that the DCP asked him to verify the facts and to take
 appropriate action. He further deposed that Nitin and Amit gave him
 written complaint signed by them and also submitted a CD of the
 recording of conversation of Nitin and accused Vinod Kumar. He heard
 the recording in the computer and asked the complainant to prepare
 transcript of the conversation and the complainant produced the
 transcription of the CD and he found the transcript to be the correct
 version of the CD. He further deposed that after he was satisfied that a
 prima facie case for the offence under section 7 / 13(i)(d) of PC Act is
 made out against accused and on the verbal approval of the DCP, he
 wrote a rukka endorsed on the complaint Ex.PW2/A of complainant
 Amit and Nitin. His endorsement is Ex.PW17/A and gave the same to
 Duty Officer to lodge the present FIR and thereafter, the investigation
 was handed over to Insp. Surender Kumar. The witness also identified
 the CD Ex.P5 to be the same which he had seen in his office computer
 during verification proceedings prior to registration of FIR. 29. During the cross­examination on behalf of accused, he deposed that the
 incident was of 02.02.2014 at around 10:00 am to 11: am. He has not
 checked the case file of the accident case at the time of verification of
 the case. He further deposed that he had not verified as to what action CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 19 had already been taken by the accused with respect to acceptance of bail
 bonds. He denied the suggestion that he had not verified the facts fairly,
 scientifically and professionally and let the complainant Nitin and Amit
 implicate the accused in a false case. He denied the suggestion that he
 had come to know during verification that one Rahul Lumba and Ct.
 Annu Yadav were also present during the period Amit and Nitin were
 present. He further denied the suggestion that he had not
 compared/verified the transcription with the contents of the recording. 30. After completion of the prosecution evidence, statement of accused was
 recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C. in which all the incriminating
 evidence was put to the accused which he denied as false and incorrect
 and stated that he has been falsely implicated in the present case. He
 further stated that he never demanded or accepted any money from the
 complainant Amit and Nitin who were bearing grudge against the
 accused who was the IO of case registered in PS Shakarpur. He further
 stated that the CD and the mobile phone produced are forged and
 fabricated. He further stated that the complainant was pressurizing him
 to show leniency in the case and after registration of the case, they
 started contacting him to extort money for deposing in his favour in the
 present case for which he recorded the said conversation and produced
 before the court. 31. Thereafter, accused examined four witnesses in his defence. DW­1
 Rahul Loomba deposed that he had gone to PS Shakarpur on 02.02.2014
 in the morning in connection with investigation of FIR no. 22/14, PS
 Shakarpur and at that time two boys were present at the PS and the
 accused was also present. He further deposed that there was no
 police person present in the room of the IO i.e. accused. He further CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 20 deposed that he stayed in the PS for about one and half hours and he was
 asked to identify the person who was driving the car involved in the
 accident and he had correctly identified the driver of the said car
 involved in the said accident. He further deposed that he has signed one
 document in the PS. He further deposed that till he was present in the PS,
 no demand of bribe was made by the accused and the accused had not
 taken any money in any manner from anybody. 32. During the cross­examination by Ld. Addl. PP, he deposed that he was
 doing private job and that on 02.02.2014, he had reached his office at
 about 01:30 pm to 02:00 pm. He further deposed that he had reached
 the PS at about 11:00 am on 02.02.2014. He identified his signature
 on the arrest memo Ex.PW4/A and admitted that time of arrest as
 mentioned in the Ex.PW4/A is 10:30 am. He further deposed that
 Ex.PW4/A was prepared after recording of his statement and the
 recording of statement started after 10 to 15 minutes of his reaching to
 PS. He further deposed that it is possible that he might have reached the
 PS at about 09:30 am as he was not sure about the timing. He identified
 his signatures on the personal search memo Ex.PW4/B in FIR no.22/14.
 He further deposed that he was not continuously present in the room
 of the IO for one and half hour and had left the room once or twice
 to go to the washroom for about five minutes. 33. DW­2 Ct. Annu Yadav is the prosecution witness but prosecution did
 not examine him stating that his role is not material. However, the said
 prosecution witness has been examined in defence by the accused. He
 deposed that he was present on emergency duty with the accused on
 04/05.01.2014 at about 09:30 pm and a call was received regarding an
 accident and quarrel. He further deposed that he alongwith accused CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 21 Vinod Kumar reached at the spot and they met the complainant Rahul
 Lumba at the spot. He further deposed that on 02.02.2014, he was
 present at the PS alongwith the accused and were having tea there when
 three persons reached there including Amit and Nitin and they told the
 accused that they wanted to get released their vehicle. He further
 deposed that accused ASI Vinod Kumar called Rahul Lumba
 telephonically who reached there in around 10 minutes. He further
 deposed that he remained there while the proceedings took place. He
 further deposed that Rahul Lumba identified Amit as the driver who had
 caused the accident on 04.01.2014 and then accused Vinod Kumar asked
 Amit and Nitin to produce the relevant documents related to vehicle i.e.
 R.C., insurance, DL etc. He further deposed that Amit and Nitin
 produced the requisite documents as required which were seized. He
 further deposed that IO asked Amit and Nitin to produce surety for
 them/vehicle. He further deposed that one Ismail had also come with
 Amit and Nitin and Ismail would stand surety for Amit and thereafter,
 accused Vinod Kumar concluded the proceedings relating to release of
 vehicle and thereafter he left from there. He further deposed that Amit,
 Nitin and Ismail also left simultaneously and till the time he was present
 there, no demand of bribe was made by the accused in his presence. 34. During the cross­examination by Ld. Addl. PP for State, he deposed that
 he had left the PS Shakarpur alongwith the accused at about 09:20 pm.
 He further deposed that they had returned to PS after attending the
 said call at about 10:30 pm to 11:00 pm. He further admitted that as per
 the FIR no. 22/14 Ex.PW5/A, he had left the spot with Tehrir to PS
 whereas ASI Vinod Kumar had remained present at the spot. He further
 deposed that on 02.02.2014, he was on emergency duty from 08:00 am CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 22 to 08:00 pm and he remained in the PS from 08:00 am to 11:30am/12:00
 noon and thereafter he left the PS after attending the call. He further
 deposed that the accused who was the IO had recorded his statement
 under section 161 Cr.P.C. on 02.02.2014. He further deposed that he
 had not gone to the accident spot alongwith the accused/IO Vinod
 Kumar on 02.02.2014. He further admitted that as per the arrest
 memo Ex.PW4/A, the place of arrest of Amit is Street No.5, School
 Block, Mandawali, Fazal Pur, Delhi and the date and time of arrest
 are 02.02.2014 at 10:30 am. He further admitted that he was present in
 the PS at 10:30 am on 02.02.2014 and he had not read the arrest
 memo before signing the same. He further deposed that he had signed
 the arrest memo in the PS on 02.02.2014. He further admitted that under
 his signature on Ex.PW4/A, he had not put the date. He further deposed
 that he had left the room of the accused Vinod Kumar at about 11:30 am
 on 02.02.2014 and Rahul Lumba had remained present in the said room
 for about one hour. He further deposed that accused had prepared all the
 said documents in his presence. He further deposed that at about 10:30
 am, accused had started preparing the documents and concluded at 11:20
 am and during that period he had not gone outside the room. He further
 deposed that he had signed the documents prepared by IO and he
 does not know what documents were brought by Amit. He further
 deposed that accused had made enquiries from Amit and at that time
 Rahul Lumba was also present in the room. He further admitted that
 Insp. Surender had recorded his statement and he had told Insp. Surender
 about innocence of accused Vinod Kumar. 35. DW­3 Vinod Kumar accused himself deposed that on 04.01.2014, he CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 23 was on emergency duty. He had received a call at about 09:30 pm
 regarding quarrel and accident and he had reached the spot alongwith Ct.
 Annu Yadav and met the complainant Rahul Lumba. Two persons who
 had caused the accident were got medically examined and were taken
 into custody and the case was registered against driver Amit. He further
 deposed that thereafter, he was deputed for Republic Day prepration
 duty. During this period, Amit had called him few times regarding
 release of the car and he had directed Amit to meet the SHO. He
 further deposed that in his room more than two persons used to sit there
 and on 02.02.2014, HC Ravinder was also sitting in the room when
 Ct. Annu Yadav came to the room. He further deposed that at around
 10:00/10:15am, three persons namely Amit, Nitin and Mohd. Ismail
 came in the room and told that their car had been seized in FIR
 No.22/14, PS Shakarpur and that they wanted the said car to be released.
 He further deposed that he called the complainant Rahul Lumba to come
 to PS and identify the offender/driver of the car who had caused the
 accident and thereafter, Rahul Lumba reached and identified Amit as the
 driver who had caused the accident. He further deposed that he asked
 for relevant papers from Amit pertaining to the said car and Amit
 had not produced his driving license and went away to collect the
 same and produced the same after some time. He further deposed that
 he did all the necessary paper work and through all the proceedings, he
 did not say anything. He further deposed that he had not demanded any
 money from them. He further deposed that throughout the period when
 Amit, Nitin and Ismail remained there, Ct. Annu Yadav and Rahul
 Lumba were also present and HC Ravinder was also sitting and doing his
 work in the same room. He further deposed that after completing the CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 24 necessary paper work for bail of Amit, DW­3 alongwith Amit, Nitin,
 Ismail, Annu Yadav and Rahul Lumba came out from the said room. He
 further deposed that thereafter he proceeded on leave for 3­4 days and
 after his returning to duty, Nitin called him to tell that one case was
 registered against him by the Vigilance Branch. He further deposed that
 Nitin started calling him frequently to drop hints for taking some money
 from him and he did not pay any heed to him and on being fed up with
 the continuous calls of Nitin, he arranged one memory card and placed
 in his mobile phone to record his extortion calls. He further deposed
 that he recorded the telephonic conversations from his mobile numbers
 9711771119, 8447273252 on his mobile phone no. 9899773236 and got
 prepared a CD of the said recording in the memory card at his home on
 the computer and also got prepared transcript of the said recorded
 conversation. He identified his Micromax phone Ex.DW3/A, original
 memory card Ex.DW3/B and the CD Ex.DW3/C alongwith its transcript
 Ex.DW3/D. 36. During the cross­examination by Ld. Addl. PP for the State, he deposed
 that he had not obtained the signature of HC Ravinder on the arrest
 memo, personal search memo of Amit in FIR no.22/14. He further
 stated that HC Ravinder remained in the said room even after DW­3 left
 the said room. He further deposed that he had verbally informed the IO
 of the present case regarding extortion calls made by Nitin. He further
 admitted that he did not make any complaint against Nitin to any
 authority but he had once gone to CBI office but they told him that they
 do not have jurisdiction to raid a public person. He denied the
 suggestion that he had made several calls to Nitin to settle the matter in
 order to escape punishment. 37. DW­4 Nitin Kumar is the son of the accused. He had deposed that his
 father was having some recording in the memory card and he with the
 help of laptop prepared two true copies of the said recordings contained
 in the memory card in CD/DVD. Certificate under section 65B of Indian
 Evidence Act regarding correctness of the CD is Ex.DW4/A. He also
 identified the CD Ex.DW3/C and identified the CD to be the same which
 he had prepared with the help of laptop. 38. During the cross­examination by Ld. Addl. PP, he deposed that he is
 12th pass and his laptop is of make HP. He further stated that he does not
 understand English properly and that the CD Ex.DW3/C was prepared in
 the month of September 2016 probably. He further stated that he had
 copied and pasted contents of memory card in the laptop and thereafter,
 he copied and pasted the same from laptop into DVD. He denied the
 suggestion that he had manipulated the contents of the memory card and
 had transferred the contents of the manipulated memory card from which
 he had prepared the DVD in order to save his father. 39. Arguments on behalf of Ld. Addl. PP for the State and Ld. Counsel for
 the accused heard. 40. Ld. Addl. PP for the State has argued that on 02.02.2014 accused
 demanded Rs.10,000/­ from PW­3 Amit Kumar for completing
 formalities of bail in case FIR no.22/14, PS Shakarpur in which accused
 Vinod Kumar was investigating officer. PW­3 Amit Kumar requested
 that he is not in a condition to pay the bribe amount whereupon accused
 threatened him and stated that his work would not be done without bribe.
 After accused took out Rs.2,000/­ from the pocket of PW­3 Amit Kumar,
 PW­3 Nitin Sharma started recording the incident by his I­phone. During
 the investigation, I­phone of Nitin Sharma and CD of the sting operation CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 26 were seized. Voice sample of the accused and Nitin Sharma were taken
 at CFSL and were deposited with CFSL alongwith I­phone and CD.
 CFSL has opined that there is no alteration/editing in the audio­video
 recordings contained in the CD and further opined that voices are
 probable voices of Nitin Sharma and accused Vinod Kumar and also
 opined that the contents of the video files available in the CD are also
 available in the I­Phone having similar characteristics with respect to all
 elements and have no sign of editing/alteration found between the
 conversation contained in the I­Phone. 41. Ld. Addl. PP further argued that PW­3 Amit Kumar and PW­2 Nitin
 Sharma have deposed categorically against accused and their version is
 supported by the electronic evidence. PW­11 Mohd. Ismail, friend of the
 complainant has supported the prosecution case on the material aspects.
 PW­12 Dr. Subrot Kumar Chaudhary and PW­13 S. Ingarsal, Senior
 Scientific Officer, CFSL have proved the FSL results. PW­15 Raj
 Kumar Singh, IPS has proved the prosecution sanction. PW­16 Insp.
 Surender Sharma has proved all the documents prepared by him during
 investigation and explained about the entire investigation. 42. Ld. Addl. PP further submitted that once the CFSL has opined that
 there was no editing or alteration in the exhibits, then the submission of
 defence regarding delay in sending the exhibits to CFSL and possibility
 of tampering and plantation is meaningless. 43. Ld. Addl. PP further argued that there is no provision in the law which
 bars investigating agency for obtaining specimen voice of the accused
 without permission of the court. IO had specifically deposed that
 accused was warned about the consequences pertaining to voice sample.
 Accused is a police official and was himself investigating officer in case CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 27 FIR No.22/14, PS Shakarpur and he was much aware about the
 consequences of giving or refusing voice sample. 44. Ld. Addl. PP for the State further argued that provision of Section 79A of I.T. Act is a directory provision and not a mandatory provision
 because it is an option for Central Government to notify any agency as
 expert for providing expert opinion on electronic evidence. This
 provision does not say that in absence of such notification opinion based
 on scientific provision given by a person well versed or skilled in such
 science is not admissible in evidence. Unless such bar is created in law,
 it cannot be read as an extension of Section 79A of I.T. Act that report
 given by any other body/lab shall be inadmissible in evidence and
 further relied upon judgment of Hon'ble Madras High Court in K.
 Ramajayan Vs Insp. of Police, Chennai reported in 2016, Crl. L.J.
 1542. It is a matter of fact that in the present case, exhibits were
 examined in CFSL in the year 2014 and till then there was no
 notification of Central Government under section 79A of I.T. Act. 45. Ld. Addl. PP further argued that CFSL reports clearly reflect that
 scientific experts had clearly picked certain words out of the transcript of
 recorded questioned conversation and out of the specimen voice of the
 accused. In the case of Sudhir Chaudhary, on the basis of objections
 raised by accused, Hon'ble Apex Court had observed that : 46. Thus, Hon'ble Apex Court in the aforesaid case recognized requirement CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 28 to have similar words in specimen voice as compared to the questioned
 recorded conversation for conducting spectrographic examination. 47. Ld. Addl. PP further argued that on the basis of documentary and oral
 evidence, prosecution has proved the case against accused Vinod Kumar
 beyond reasonable doubt and prayed for conviction of the accused. SANCTION : 48. Ld. Defence counsel has argued that the sanctioning authority has not
 applied his mind independently and the sanction was granted
 mechanically as sanctioning authority had not seen the audio­video
 footage before grant of sanction and therefore, same also reveals non­
 application of mind by the sanctioning authority. 49. On the other hand, Ld. Addl. PP for the State has argued that no
 prejudice has been shown to have been caused to the accused. As far as
 the fact that the sanctioning authority had not gone through the audio­
 video recording is concerned, in the judgment of State Vs R.C. Anand
 & Anr. , (2004) 4 SCC 615, it was held that : 50. In view of the above case of R.C. Anand, it is immaterial if the
 sanctioning authority has not gone through the audio­video recording
 before according sanction, as the same are matters of proof during trial. 51. Also, as regards application of mind by sanctioning authority in 2013
 (8) SCC 119 State of Maharashtra through CBI Vs Mahesh Jain ,
 following principles were culled out :­
 "14.1 It is incumbent on the prosecution to prove that the
 valid sanction has been granted by the sanctioning
 authority after being satisfied that a case for sanction
 has been made out. 14.2 The sanction order may expressly show that the
 sanctioning authority has perused the material placed
 before it and, after consideration of the
 circumstances, has granted sanction for prosecution.
 14.3 The prosecution may prove by adducing the
 evidence that the material was placed before the
 sanctioning authority and its satisfaction was arrived
 at upon perusal of the material placed before it. 14.4 Grant of sanction is only an administrative function
 and the sanctioning authority is required to prime
 facie reach the satisfaction that relevant facts would
 constitute the offence. 14.5 The adequacy of material placed before the
 sanctioning authority cannot be gone into by the
 court as it does not sit in appeal over the sanction
 order. 14.6 If the sanctioning authority has perused all the
 materials placed before it and some of them have not
 been proved that would not vitiate the order of
 sanction. 14.7 The order of sanction is a prerequisite as it is
 intended to provide a safeguard to a public servant
 against frivolous and vexatious litigants, but
 simultaneously an order of sanction should not be
 construed in a pedantic manner and there should
 not be a hypertechnical approach to test its validity." It was further held that : 52. Thus, grant of sanction is an administrative function and only prima
 facie satisfaction of the sanctioning authority is needed. The adequacy or
 inadequacy of material placed before the sanctioning authority cannot be
 gone into by the court as it does not sit in appeal over the sanction order
 and when there is an order of sanction by the competent authority
 indicating application of mind, the same should not be lightly dealt with.
 Also, flimsy technicalities cannot be allowed to become tools in the
 hands of accused. 53. Also in Mansukhlal Vithaldas Chauhan Vs State of Gujarat , decided
 on 03.09.1997 by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, it has been
 observed that : 54. There is nothing on record to suggest that the sanctioning authority was
 under any obligation or compulsion to grant sanction or had not applied
 his independent mind. 55. Also, in CBI Vs Ashok Kumar Aggarwal , decided on 31.10.2013 by
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court, it has been held that :­
 "(a) The prosecution must send the entire
 relevant record to the sanctioning authority
 including the FIR, disclosure statements,
 statements of witnesses, recovery memos, draft
 charge sheet and all other relevant material. The record so sent should also contain the
 material/document, if any, which may tilt the
 balance in favour of the accused and on the
 basis of which, the competent authority may
 refuse sanction. (b) The authority itself has to do complete and
 conscious scrutiny of the whole record so
 produced by the prosecution independently
 applying its mind and taking into consideration
 all the relevant facts before grant of sanction
 while discharging its duty to give or withheld
 the sanction. (c) The power to grant sanction is to be
 exercised strictly keeping in mind the public
 interest and the protection available to the
 accused against whom the sanction is sought. (d) The order of sanction should make it
 evidence that the authority had been aware of
 all relevant facts/materials and had applied its
 mind to all the relevant material. (e) In every individual case, the prosecution
 has to establish and satisfy the court by leading
 evidence that the entire relevant facts had been
 placed before the sanctioning authority and the
 authority had applied its mind on the same and
 that the sanction had been granted in
 accordance with law." 56. Certainly, it is the duty of the prosecution to send entire record of the
 case to the sanctioning authority and the emphasis of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the above case is also that the record should be CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 33 sent alongwith material and document that may tilt the balance in
 favour of the accused and on the basis of which competent authority
 may refuse the sanction. Though, Ld. Counsel for the accused has
 argued that the entire record was not sent but he has failed to show as to
 which of the documents which the prosecution had not sent, would have
 tilted the balance in favour of the accused. None of the document which
 were not sent to the Sanctioning Authority could have formed basis for
 refusing sanction. Also, how the balance would have tilted in his favour,
 if the sanctioning authority would have perused the audio­video
 recording or the audio recording of the conversation between the
 complainant and the accused. The accused has not been able to point out
 any document or material which if would have been put before the
 Sanctioning Authority (but was not sent to Sanctioning Authority by the
 IO) might have tilted the balance in favour of the accused and on the
 basis of which it can be said that if the said document would have been
 brought to the notice of the Sanctioning Authority, he would not have
 granted sanction for prosecution of the accused. Moreover, no question
 regarding non­perusal of audio­video footages has been put to the
 witness PW­15, Sanctioning Authority during his cross­examination.
 The accused has also not been able to show that the discretion vested in
 the Sanctioning Authority was affected by any extraneous consideration
 or that the mind of sanctioning authority was under pressure from any
 corner. 57. Also, in Ashok Kumar Tshering Bhutia Vs State of Sikkim , 2011 (3)
 LRC 93 (SC) on the point of sanction, it was held as follows: 58. The object behind the requirement of grant of sanction to prosecute a
 public servant under the POC Act are designed as a check on frivolous
 and unscrupulous attempts to prosecute honest public servant for acts
 arising out of due discharge of their duties. Section 19(1) of the POC Act
 are mandatory and forbid courts from taking cognizance of any offence
 punishable U/S 7,10,11,13 & 15 of the POC Act against public servants
 except with the previous sanction of the competent authority. 59. Also, this court is of the view that accused failed to show that failure of
 justice had occasioned by any error, omission or irregularity in the
 sanction. Moreover, as regards errors, omission or irregularity in the
 sanction order including competency of the authority to grant sanction, it
 has been held in " State of Bihar Vs. Raj Mangal Pandey , 2014 (II)
 SCC 388" as under : 60. PW­15 has denied the suggestion that he had not applied his mind.
 There is nothing established on record to suggest that any draft sanction
 order was placed before competent authority before grant of sanction and
 therefore, it cannot be said that there is any non­application of mind. 61. In view of the above discussion, it cannot be said that the order of
 sanction for prosecution of accused is not valid or illegal. ADMISSIBILITY OF ELECTRONIC EVIDENCE : 62. It is argued by Ld. Defence counsel that the recording available in I­
 phone Ex.P1, transcription Ex.PW2/B and CD Ex.P5 cannot be read in
 evidence as there is unexplained delay of 2 months and 8 days in sending
 the exhibits to CFSL and therefore, possibility of tampering and
 plantation cannot be ruled out. In this respect, Ld. Counsel for accused
 has relied upon Jitender Vs State , 2006 (3) JCC 1382 Delhi. It is
 further argued that there is no opinion of Physic Division, CFSL as to
 whether tampering was possible in the recording with the help of I­
 phone Ex.P1. In this respect, reliance is placed upon Ashish Kumar
 Dubey Vs State , 2014(IV) AD (Delhi) 473, by the Ld. Defence counsel. As far as the judgment in Jitender 's case is concerned, the said case was
 a Murder Case and recovery of blood stained shirt was doubtful. The
 said judgment is just not applicable to the present case. More so, when
 the CFSL expert PW­13 Sh. S. Ingarsal, has clearly opined that he had
 examined the audio­video footages contained in the I­Phone Ex.P1 as
 well as the CD Ex.P5 with the help of Final Cut Express Editing CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 37 software and had found no editing/alteration and had further opined that
 the footages contained in I­Phone Ex.P1 and CD Ex.P5 are genuine. In
 view of the report of CFSL experts PW­12 and PW­13, possibility of
 tampering is ruled out and delay, if any, in sending the exhibits for
 examination is not material. Also, in Ashish Kumar Dubey 's Case, the
 Micro Cassette Recorder (MCR) was not examined by CFSL for ruling
 out tampering and no query regarding tampering or editing was raised by
 the IO and therefore, the expert had not expressed any opinion in this
 regard. However, in the present, the recording device I­phone Ex.P1 and
 CD Ex.P5 were examined by PW­13 to rule out any possibility of
 tampering/editing/alteration etc. The relevant part of the testimony of
 PW­13 is reproduced herein below : Relevant part of cross­examination of PW­13 is reproduced hereinbelow
 : 63. It is further argued by Ld. Counsel for the accused that no permission of
 the court was taken for obtaining sample voices of the accused and no
 written warning of adverse inference was given by IO to the accused
 before recording his specimen voice and that the IO during cross­
 examination has stated about giving oral warning but entire case is silent
 on this aspect. However, there is no law or provision requiring
 permission of court for obtaining sample voice of accused. In the
 judgment of Ritesh Sinha Vs State of U.P. decided by Hon'ble
 Supreme Court on 02.08.2019 also, Hon'ble Supreme Court has
 observed that magistrate can authorize the investigating agency to record
 the sample voice of accused and has power to order a person to give
 sample voice but no specific permission is required from court before
 recording sample voice. 64. Ld. Counsel has further stated that the electronic evidence in this case
 is not admissible in view of the fact that the original device is not
 examined by PW­12 Subrat Kumar Chaudhary, CFSL Expert and
 therefore, no reliance can be placed on recording contained in Ex.P1.
 Also the court had observed during the examination of PW­11 that the
 face of the accused cannot be seen in any of the video played and CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 39 therefore, the recording is of no help to the prosecution. Though the
 original device is not examined by PW­12 Sh. Subrat Kumar but the
 same was examined by expert Sh. S. Ingarsal, PW­13 who clearly
 opined that the video files contained in CD were also available in I­
 Phone having similar characteristics including duration of
 individual clips. The testimony of PW­12 and PW­13 together
 establish that the files available in the CD Ex.P5 were also available
 in I­Phone Ex.P1 and there was no tampering in the files and that
 the voice of accused and Nitin Kumar tallied with respective
 questioned voices. As far as the fact that the face of the accused cannot
 be seen in the videos played, the same is immaterial in view of the fact
 that his sample voice has tallied with the questioned voice and therefore,
 it is proved on record that the conversation in the audio­video footages
 contained in the I­Phone and CD was between Nitin Sharma and
 accused. PW­2 Nitin Shama already stated that while he was recording
 the incident he was taking care to switch off the recording whenever the
 accused used to get up from his chair and therefore, it appears that the
 face of the accused could not be captured in the recording. 65. It is further argued that the IMEI number of the phone device was not
 noted down by the IO in the memo Ex.PW2/C and also PW­11 and PW­
 12 have not noted down the IMEI number in their respective reports and
 therefore, the same is doubtful. Moreover, no date of recording is
 available contained in the CD as well as in the I­phone. It is also argued
 that the report Ex.PW12/B and Ex.PW13/A cannot be read in evidence
 for want of notification under section 79A I.T. Act. Ld. Counsel for the
 accused has relied upon the judgment of the present court in case titled State Vs Gurpreet Singh Walia decided on 18.04.2018. It is also argued CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 40 unidentified voices of other persons were not incorporated by the IO in
 the specimen voices obtained and in this respect Ld. Counsel for the
 accused has relied upon Nilesh Dinkar Vs State , (2011) 4 SCC 143. 66. In the Nilesh Dinkar 's case, the voice of accused was identified by a
 police official who had earlier arrested the accused in another case and
 not by an expert and therefore , the said judgment is not applicable to the
 facts of the present case. As voice identification in the present case has
 been conducted by an FSL expert, 4­5 unidentified voices could not have
 been mixed with the sample voice in such circumstances. It is only
 where the voice has been identified by a private person who claims that
 he can recognize the voice, that the voice is to be mixed with 4­5
 unidentified voices. The said judgment is therefore, not applicable to a
 case where sample voice is recorded in a lab by an expert and thereafter,
 is examined by spectrographic methods. Though the Ld. Counsel for the
 accused has argued that the IO has not noted down the IMEI number of
 phone in the seizure memo Ex.PW2/C. However, the same is not correct
 as the perusal of the Ex.PW2/C shows that the IMEI No.
 013424005555724 is noted down in the seizure memo. In the report of
 CFSL expert Ex.PW12/A also, the same IMEI number is mentioned on
 page no. 4 by the expert PW­12 and therefore, this argument that the
 IMEI number of the phone device was not noted down by the IO or by
 the FSL expert is not correct as per the record. 67. Regarding non­availability of the date of recording in the CD and I­
 phone, PW­2 and PW­3 have clearly stated that they have recorded the
 said conversation on 02.02.2014 and moreover, no such question
 regarding date of recording has been put to PW­2 and PW­3 during their
 cross­examination. 68. As far as the argument that the CFSL is not notified under section 79A of I.T. Act is concerned, the electronic evidence is explained in Section
 29 ­A IPC :­ The words "electronic record" shall have the meaning
 assigned to them in clause (t) of Sub­section (1) of section 2 of the
 Information Technology Act, 2002. 69. Sec. 2 (1)(t) I.T. Act : 71. The issue as to whether in absence of notification under section 79A of
 Information Technology Act, the report given by an expert from CFSL, CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 42 New Delhi regarding examination of electronic evidence, would be
 admissible in evidence, is a legal issue. 72. The relevant law provisions in this regard Section 79 A of I.T. Act was
 enacted in the year 2000, which came into force w.e.f. 17.10.2000. This
 provision provides that the Central Government may for the purposes of
 providing expert opinion on electronic form evidence, specify, by
 notification, any department, body or agency as an examiner of
 electronic evidence. 73. Moreover, the provision under section 79A I.T. Act or provision under section 45A Evidence Act do not provide that in absence of such
 notification, opinion based on scientific examination given by a person
 well versed or skilled in such science, would not be admissible in
 evidence. Unless such bar is created in law, it cannot be read as an
 extension of section 79A of I.T. Act, that the report given by any other
 authority/lab would be inadmissible in evidence. Therefore, the court
 does not find any occasion to go into the question of intention of
 legislature while using the term 'may' in Section 79 A. 74. Hon'ble High Court at Madras in the case of K. Ramajayam v.
 Inspector of Police, Chennai 2016 Cr.LJ 1542, on the issue of Section
 79A of I.T. Act, observed that­
 "It is axiomatic that the opinion of an expert, which is
 relevant under Section 45 of the Indian Evidence Act,
 1872, when accepted by the Court graduates into the
 opinion of the Court. The Central Government has not
 yet issued notification under Section 79A of the
 Information Technology Act, 2000 on account of which Section 45A of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 remains
 mute. Therefore, the methods evolved by Kala (PW­ 23)
 and Pushparani (PW­24), Scientific Officers of the
 Tamil Nadu Forensic Sciences Department to analyze
 and give their opinions on the electronic data, are CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 43 correct and cannot be faulted." 75. It is also pertinent to mention that the Information Technology Act was
 enacted in the year 2000, after much advancement in the use of
 electronic data, transactions being carried out by means of electronic
 data and other means of electronic communication. It was so enacted to
 provide safeguards necessary for legal recognition to such transactions.
 However, recorded conversations were being produced during criminal
 trial of a case since long and much prior to 2000 and same were duly
 relied upon by the courts, subject to certain precautionary measures, for
 the purpose of giving decision in such cases. 76. Also, section 293 Cr.P.C. refers to certain government scientific experts
 and provides that report of such experts may be used as evidence even
 without calling such expert to formally prove their reports before the
 court. Thus, report of certain experts were given special status and were
 admissible without formally calling such expert in the witness box to
 prove the same. In the year 2005, legislature added one more category in section 293 (4) Cr.P.C. to include any other government scientific expert
 specified by notification by the Central Government for this purpose.
 This addition took effect from 23.06.2006. Thereafter, w.e.f. 27.10.2009,
 legislature again came up with section 45A Indian Evidence Act, which
 provided that opinion of examiner of electronic evidence referred in Section 79 A of I.T. Act shall be a relevant fact in respect of any
 information stored in any computer resource or any other electronic
 devise. Thus, it is clear that legislature has been taking steps one after
 another for the purpose of due legal recognition of electronic evidence in
 formal manner. 77. It cannot be said that prior to 2009, opinion of any scientific expert qua CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 44 recorded conversations was irrelevant or not admissible in any court
 proceedings. Section 45 of Evidence Act in itself is enabling provision to
 accept opinion of such expert in the court proceedings. Obviously, the
 courts over the passage of time, have evolved certain precautionary
 measures for the purpose of appreciation of expert opinion. Notification
 under section 79A of I.T. Act may further lay down a basis to accept
 report of such notified expert under Section 293(4)(g) Cr.P.C., without
 formal proof of the same. It is also to be appreciated that other experts
 viz. handwriting experts have to prove their opinion or report before the
 court, after appearing as witness. Their opinion/reports are evaluated and
 appreciated by court on merits rather than being rejected on the grounds
 that they are not notified experts. As the CFSL was not notified under section 79A of the I.T. Act, the formal proof of report of such experts
 cannot be dispensed with under section 293(4)(g) of Cr.P.C. and the
 prosecution would have to prove their report by calling such experts as
 witnesses. 78. In the present case, PW­12 and PW­13 appeared in the court for their
 evidence and proved their respective reports and were subjected to
 lengthy cross­examination also by the defence. They adopted prevalent
 scientific instrument and method of audiography and spectrography.
 Their opinion/report is based on scientific examination, rather than
 personal opinion. Therefore, same would be admissible in evidence. 79. As far as the judgment of the present court State Vs Gurpreet Singh
 Walia qua Section 79A of the I.T. Act is concerned, the same is not
 binding on the present court. Moreover, the present court has taken a
 different view in State Vs Sube Singh decided on 28.09.2019 by this
 court. 80. It is further argued that no independent sentences were made for the
 purpose of taking sample voice of the accused by using common
 available words from the questioned voice and as such the recordings
 and sample voice cannot be used against the accused. Moreover, no
 specimen voice of accused was taken by incorporating incriminating
 words from questioned recording. In this respect, Ld. Counsel for the
 accused has relied upon Sudhir Choudhary Vs State , AIR 2016 SC
 3772. 81. The court has heard the sample voice of the accused. During the
 recording of sample voice, preliminary voice was also recorded, wherein
 the accused has stated that he has ensured that the micro SD Card used
 for recording his sample voice is fresh and blank. He has further stated
 that he is getting his sample voice recorded voluntarily, without any
 force etc. Once, he has got his sample voice recorded voluntarily and
 had also ensured that the micro SD Card was fresh and blank, this
 argument that he was made to read sentences from the transcript is
 meaningless. Also, no prejudice has been caused to him even if he has
 been made to read few sentences from the transcript. Moreover, in Sudhir Chaudhary 's Case, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has not stated
 that if the accused is made to read sentences from the transcript, the
 whole proceedings would be vitiated. In Sudhir Chaudhary 's Case, the
 accused had taken objection prior to recordings of his sample voice but
 no such objection was taken by the accused before recording of his
 sample voice in the present case. Rather, he has voluntarily participated
 in the proceedings for recording of sample voice. 82. It is also argued that the transcript of questioned voice and sample
 voices were also provided to CFSL, so the identity of the speakers were CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 46 already with the expert. Ld. Defence counsel has further submitted that
 the expert PW­12 is not a qualified expert as he was not possessing any
 degree in the field of voice identification and as such the report
 Ex.PW12/A cannot be read. In this respect, Ld. Counsel has relied upon Sukhdeo Singh Vs State , 1993 (1) CCC 57 SC. In Sukhdeo Singh Vs
 State , opinion of handwriting expert was in question and it was observed
 that before relying upon the report of handwriting expert, the court must
 be satisfied that the expert is competent, reliable and dependable witness.
 The court has gone through the reports of PW­12 and PW­13 as well as
 their testimony and it is opined that both the experts are competent,
 reliable and dependable. In fact, PW­12 and PW­13 have been cross­
 examined at length and during their cross­examination also they have
 stated that their report is based on scientific methods. PW­12 has clearly
 stated that he has extracted the audio from the video file and thereafter,
 compared the same with the specimen voices. Even the copy of the
 spectrographic examination was placed on record as Ex.PW12/B during
 his cross­examination. PW­12 has clearly stated that he had compared
 the audio with the sample voices and the spectrogrms markings were
 done by him on visual comparison. As regarding possessing any degree
 in voice identification is concerned, during cross­examination, PW­12
 has clearly stated that there is no such degree or diploma of voice
 examination offered by any university in India and that he had
 completed M.Sc. in Physics and Ph.D in Forensic of Audio­Video
 Authentication from Punjab University, Patiala and thus, he is a qualified
 expert. Also, providing of transcript of questioned voice to the expert is
 rather essential for the experts to carry out their examination effectively. 83. As regards the question of credibility of the audio­video recordings, Ld. CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 47 defence counsel disputed recorded specimen voice of accused. He
 submitted that no witness has deposed about specimen voice being
 recorded in his presence. He also alleged that all these recordings are
 tampered and fabricated recordings, which do not contain voice of
 accused. The micro SD cards containing sample voices of accused Nitin
 Sharma are Ex.PW8/S1 and Ex.PW8/S2 respectively. PW­8 and PW­9
 are the Lab Attendants, CFSL witnesses who had recorded the sample
 voices of accused as well as Nitin Kumar. In view of the testimony of
 PW­8 and PW­9, the above argument is not sustainable. 84. In view of the above discussion, it is directed that electronic evidence
 i.e. audio­video footages contained in I­phone Ex.P1 and CD Ex.P5 are
 authentic, reliable and admissible in evidence. APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE, DEMAND & ACCEPTANCE : 85. Ingredients of Section­7 being relevant are reproduced hereinbelow : 86. Ingredients of Section­13 (1)(d) being relevant are reproduced
 hereinbelow : 87. As regards Section 7 and 13(1)(d) of the P.C. Act, Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in C.K. Damodaran Nair Vs Govt. of India , (1997) 9 SCC 477,
 observed as below : From a combined reading of Section 161 IPC and Section 4(1) of the Act it is evident that if, in the
 instant case, the prosecution has succeeded in proving
 that the appellant was a public servant at the material
 time and that he had 'accepted' or 'obtained'
 Rs.1,000/­ from PW9 as gratification not only the first
 two ingredients of the former would stand proved but
 also the third, in view of the presumption under the
 latter which the Court is bound to draw unless, of
 course, the appellant, in his turn, has succeeded in CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 50 rebutting that presumption. According to Shorter
 Oxford Dictionary 'accept' means to take or receive
 with a 'consenting mind'. Obviously such a 'consent'
 can be established not only by leading evidence of
 prior agreement but also from the circumstances
 surrounding the transaction itself without proof of
 such prior agreement. If an acquaintance of a public
 servant in expectation and with the hope that in future,
 if need be, he would be able to get some official favour
 from him, voluntarily offers any gratification and if
 the public servant willingly takes or receives such
 gratification it would certainly amount to 'acceptance'
 within the meaning of Section 161 IPC. It cannot be
 said, therefore, as an abstract proposition of law, that
 without a prior demand there cannot be 'acceptance'
 The position will, however, be different so far as an
 offence under Section 5(1)(d) read with Section 5(2) of
 the Act is concerned. For such an offence prosecution
 has to prove that the accused 'obtained' the valuable
 thing or pecuniary advantage by corrupt or illegal
 means or by otherwise abusing his position as a public
 servant and that too without the aid of the statutory
 presumption under Section 4(1) of the Act as it is
 available only in respect of offences under Sections
 5(1)(a) and (b) - and not under Section 5(1)(c), (d) or (e) of the Act. 'Obtain' means to secure or gain
 (something) as the result of request or effort (Shorter
 Oxford Dictionary). In case of obtainment the
 initiative vests in the person who receives and in that
 context a demand or request from him will be a
 primary requisite for an offence under Section 5(1) (d) of the Act unlike an offence under Section 161 IPC, which, as noticed above, can be, established by
 proof of either 'acceptance' - or 'obtainment'. 88. In Ram Krishan & Anr. Vs State of Delhi , 1956 SCR 183, Hon'ble
 Supreme Court has observed that : 89. In M.W. Mohiuddin Vs State of Maharashtra , (1995) 3 SCC 567,
 Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed that : 90. Thus, to attract the offence under section 7 and 13(1)(d) of the P.C.
 Act, the accused must have either accepted or obtained or attempted to
 obtain illegal gratification. Also, for obtaining a pecuniary advantage,
 an effort is required on the part of the receiver. Let us analyse the
 evidence on record to find out as to whether accused accepted or
 obtained for himself any illegal gratification. 91. It is argued by Ld. Defence counsel that entire evidence brought on CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 52 record by prosecution is shaky and is much beyond reasonable doubt in
 as much as PW­2 Nitin Sharma deposed that accused demanded
 Rs.10,000/­ for releasing Amit on bail and took out Rs.2,000/­ from the
 pocket of PW­3 forcefully, after which PW­2 started recording the
 conversation. It is also stated that the accused has demanded the balance
 amount and he (i.e. PW­2) told accused to take Rs.1,000/­ and assured to
 pay balance amount later and accused told them that he is taking less
 amount. It is stated that these allegations are not true in as much as the
 transcript Ex.PW2/B is silent qua demand of balance amount or any
 specific amount and about threats of dire consequences. It is stated that
 PW­2 has made ample improvements in his statement before the court. It
 is also stated that PW­2 during the cross­examination dated 09.04.2018
 deposed that "accused ne kaha ki bataye hue paise jab de doge tab
 tumhara kaam karunga, varna kaam me rukawate daal dunga" but such
 averments are not available in his complaint Ex.PW2/B. In the
 complaint Ex.PW2/B, it is stated that
 "Sir, I told Mr. Vinod that I am not in conditions to
 pay this amount at this he threatened us with dire
 consequences and said this work can't be done without
 bribe. He also said that I will put this work into the
 glitches if you dont pay the said amount." 92. The main purport and gist of what is stated by PW­2 in cross­
 examination and what is stated in complaint Ex.PW2/B is same. 93. It is also stated that PW­3 deposed that accused had asked whether they
 have come prepared but PW­2 has not deposed about any such talks. It
 is also stated that PW­3 deposed that accused forcefully took Rs.2,000/­
 from him, however, PW­11 has not stated that accused took the money CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 53 from his pocket. PW­11 has clearly stated that accused took the money
 from Amit as soon as he took out the same from his pocket. 94. It is further argued that PW­11 deposed that accused talked about
 money for release of vehicle after he has signed the documents asked by
 the accused. He also deposed that some money was handed over to the
 accused. PW­11 further stated that money handed over was Rs.1,000/­
 or Rs.2,000/­. PW­11 further deposed that some conversation of money
 had taken place but he had shown ignorance about the exact talks.
 Moreover, PW­11 denied taking out money from the pocket of Amit and
 thus, PW­11 falsified the version of PW­2 and PW­3 because as per PW­
 2, they left the room immediately after signing the bail bond/papers,
 whereas as per PW­11, he had signed the documents first and thereafter,
 some talks of money started for release of vehicle. It is further argued
 that PW­11 deposed that accused had stated that "jo 2000 rupaiye tumne
 diye hai, ye to file hi kha jayegi" but there is no such averment as per the
 transcript Ex.PW2/B. 95. Para­1 of the transcript Ex.PW2/B is reproduced hereinbelow : 96. The above said lines uttered by the accused Vinod Kumar clearly
 reflects words "ye file 2000 kha jayegi" and thus, accused had said about
 Rs.2,000/­ being spent on file. 97. In the case Bharuda Broginbhai Harjibhai vs. State of Gujarat AIR
 1983 SC 753, it was held that discrepancies which do not go to the root
 of the matter and shake the basic version of the prosecution should not CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 54 be attached undue importance. Their Lordships have enumerated
 following reasons for arriving at this conclusion :­
 "1) By and large a witness cannot be expected to
 possess a photographic memory and to recall the
 details of an incident. It is not as if a video tape is
 replayed on the mental screen. 2) Ordinarily, it so happens that a witness is
 overtaken by events. The witness could not have
 anticipated the occurrence which so often has an
 element of surprise. Thus mental faculties, therefore, cannot be expected
 to be attuned to absorb the details. 3) The powers of observance differ from person to
 person, what one may notice, another may not. An
 object or movement might emboss image on one
 person's mind, whereas it might go unnoticed on the
 part of another. 4) By and large people cannot accurately recall a
 conversation and reproduce the very words used
 by them on heard by them. They can only recall
 the main purport of the conversation. It is
 unrealistic to expect a witness to be a human tape­
 recorder. 5) In regard to exact time of an incident or the time
 duration of an occurrence, usually, people make
 their estimates by guess­work at spur of moment, at
 the time of interrogation and one cannot expect
 people make very precise or reliable estimates in
 such matters. Again, it depends upon the time­sense
 of individuals which varies from person to person. 6) Ordinarily a witness cannot be expected to recall
 accurately the sequence of events which takes place
 in rapid succession or in a short time span. A
 witness is liable to get confused, or mixed up when
 interrogated later on. 7) A witness though wholly truthful, is liable to be
 overawed by the court atmosphere and the piercing
 cross­examination made by counsel and out of
 nervousness mix­up facts, get confused regarding CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 55 sequence of events, or fill up details of imagination
 at the spur of the moment. The sub­conscious mind
 of the witness sometimes so operate on account of
 the fear of looking foolish or being disbelieved,
 though the witness is giving a truthful and honest
 account of the occurrence witnessed by him,
 perhaps it is a sort of psychological moment." 98. The minor differences in the testimony of PW­2, PW­3 and PW­11,
 which the Ld. Defence Counsel has painstakingly highlighted do not go
 to the root of the matter. All the three witnesses have deposed on same
 lines. If their testimonies would have been verbatim same, it would have
 rather led to a conclusion, that they were tutored. They cannot be
 expected to recall the sequence of events accurately and should not be
 expected to be human tape­recorder. As the observance power differ
 from person to person, there is bound to be some difference in the
 testimony of PW­2, PW­3 and PW­11. PW­11 has not stated that no
 talks of bribe whatsoever took place. He has stated that some talks of
 money were going on. Amit in FIR no. 22/14 was accused of bailable
 offence and was entitled to be released on bail under section 436 Cr.P.C.
 and could not have been taken into custody, and no money was required
 for granting bail in bailable offences. In a bailable offence, the only
 choice available to the investigating officer is between taking a simple
 recognizance of the accused or demanding security with surety. But
 PW­11 has clearly stated that some talks of money did took place, thus,
 clearly establishing that accused demanded bribe to release Amit on bail
 even in a bailable offence. 99. The relevant portion of the transcript of the recorded conversation
 Ex.PW2/B to show that accused obtained illegal gratification of
 Rs.2,000/­ is reproduced hereinbelow : 100. The words "kitna kharcha hai, kisi se pata kar lo jamanat ka kya
 lete hai" clearly indicate that the accused was demanding illegal
 gratification for bail (jamanat). If there was no demand, where was the
 occasion to say that he would do the work for free after four days. The
 above conversation clearly reflects that accused made a conscience effort
 to obtain the illegal gratification. 101. It is also argued that the complainant Amit Kumar stated that he
 had talked to accused several times but no call records have been placed
 on record by the IO and even CAF has not been collected by the IO. It is
 also argued that as per PW­2, the transcript Ex.PW2/B was given
 alongwith the complaint Ex.PW2/A but as per PW­3, it was given
 alongwith CD, therefore, the version of PW­2 and PW­3 are contrary as
 to when the transcript Ex.PW2/B was given. However, the court does
 not find any contradiction in this regard, as the CD as well as transcript
 were given alongwith the complaint Ex.PW2/A as per the prosecution
 case. Also, call records of CAF of Amit Kumar are not relevant or
 material to decide the present case. 102. It is further argued that except the bald statements of PW­2 and
 PW­3, there is no evidence of demand of bribe by the accused and
 nothing was recovered from the accused. It is also argued that PW­17,
 IO has stated a different version about partial recording of spot
 conversation by PW­2. PW­2 has stated that he could not record CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 58 conversation as the accused was frequently moving from his seat,
 whereas PW­17 has stated that he was told by PW­2 and PW­3 that they
 could not record complete conversation as they were receiving calls on
 their mobile phone. The version of PW­17 in this regard is hearsay
 evidence and should be discarded. Moreover, the statement of PW­2 and
 PW­3 is corroborated by the statement of PW­11 as well as the
 electronic evidence i.e. the three audio­video footages and thus, it cannot
 be said that the case is based on the bald statements of PW­2 and PW­3. 103. It is also argued that PW­3 Amit Kumar has pleaded guilty in case
 FIR no. 22/14 and was convicted vide order dated 06.12.2014 passed by
 the Ld. MM and thus, had accepted the documents including arrest
 memo, bail bonds etc. filed alongwith the chargesheet. Certified copy of
 the final order in FIR no.22/14 has also been filed alongwith the written
 submissions which reveals that Amit had pleaded guilty to the offence
 under section 279 IPC before the Plea­Bargain Judge. By pleading
 guilty to the offence under section 279 IPC, it cannot be said that he had
 also accepted that the particulars, stated in his arrest memo were also
 correct. Even as per the defence version the arrest memo in FIR No.
 22/14 was prepared while sitting in the PS and the place of arrest of
 accused Amit (Complainant in this case) has been shown as Street no. 5,
 School Block, Mandawali, Fazal Pur, Delhi. This reveals that the
 document of arrest/seizure/bail bonds etc. were prepared casually of the
 accused in FIR no. 22/14 with incorrect particulars. DW­2 Ct. Annu
 Yadav has also stated that he signed the documents without reading. 104. As regards raising of presumption under section 20 of the PC Act,
 it was held in Mukut Bihari Vs State of Rajasthan 2012 (11) SCC 645
 as under :­ CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 59 The law on the issue is well settled that demand of
 illegal gratification is sine qua non for constituting
 an offence under the 1988 Act. Mere recovery of
 tainted money is not sufficient to convict the
 accused, when the substantive evidence in the case
 is not reliable, unless there is evidence to prove
 payment of bribe or to show that the money was
 taken voluntarily as bribe. Mere receipt of amount
 by the accused is not sufficient to fasten the guilt, in
 the absence of any evidence with regard to demand
 and acceptance of the amount as illegal
 gratification but the burden rests on the accused to
 displace the statutory presumption raised under section 20 of the 1988 Act, by bringing on record
 evidence, either direct or circumstantial, to
 establish with reasonable probability, that the
 money was accepted by him, other than as a motive
 or reward as referred to in Section 7 of the 1988
 Act. While invoking the provisions of section 20 of
 the Act, the court is required to consider the
 explanation offered by the accused, if any, only on
 the touchstone of preponderance of probability and
 not on the touchstone of proof beyond all
 reasonable doubt. However, before the accused is
 called upon to explain as to how the amount in
 question was found in his possession, the
 foundational facts must be established by the
 prosecution. The complainant is an interest and
 partisan witness concerned with the success of the
 trap and his evidence must be tested in the same
 way as that of any other interested witness and in a
 proper case the court may look for independent
 corroboration before convicting the accused
 persons." 105. Section 20 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 reads as
 under:­
 " Section 20 . Presumption where public servant
 accepts gratification other than legal remuneration. - (1) Where, in any trial of an offence punishable CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 60 under section 7 or Section 11 or clause (a) or
 clause (b) of sub­section (1) of Section 13 it is
 proved that an accused person has accepted or
 obtained or has agreed to accept or attempted to
 obtain for himself, or for any other persons, any
 gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any
 valuable thing from any person, it shall be
 presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that he
 accepted or obtained or agreed to accept or
 attempted to obtain that gratification or that
 valuable thing, as the case may be, as a motive or
 reward such as is mentioned in section 7 or, as the
 case may be, without consideration or for a
 consideration which he knows to be inadequate. (2)
 Where in any trial of an offence punishable under section 12 or under clause (b) of Section 14 , it is
 proved that any gratification (other than legal
 remuneration) or any valuable thing has been given
 or offered to be given or attempted to be given by
 an accused person, it shall be presumed, unless the
 contrary is proved, that he gave or offered to give
 or attempted to give that gratification or that
 valuable thing, as the case may be, as a motive or
 reward such as is mentioned in section 7 , or, as the
 case may be, without consideration or for a
 consideration which he knows to be inadequate. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub­sections
 (1) and (2), the court may decline to draw the
 presumption referred to in either of the said sub­
 sections, if the gratification or thing aforesaid is, in
 its opinion, so trivial that no inference of corruption
 may fairly be drawn." 106. As regards drawing of presumption, it has been held in Madhukar Bhaskarrao Joshi Vs State of Maharashtra (2000) 8 SCC
 571 as under:­
 "The premise to be established on the facts for
 drawing the presumption is that there was payment
 or acceptance of gratification. Once the said CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 61 premise is established the inference to be drawn is
 that the said gratification was accepted "as motive
 or reward" for doing or forbearing to do any
 official act. So the word "gratification" need not be
 stretched to mean reward because reward is the
 outcome of the presumption which the court has to
 draw on the factual premise that there was payment
 of gratification. This will again be fortified by
 looking at the collocation of two expressions
 adjacent to each other like "gratification of any
 valuable thing". If acceptance of any valuable thing
 can help to draw the presumption that it was
 accepted as motive or reward for doing or
 forbearing to do an official act, the word
 "gratification" must be treated in the context to
 mean any payment for giving satisfaction to the
 public servant who received it." 107. The presumption under section 20 of the PC Act is rebuttable
 either through cross­examination of witnesses of prosecution or by
 adducing reliable evidence as held in C. M. Girish Babu vs CBI,
 Cochin High Court of Kerala (2009) 3 SCC 779. The facts remains
 that prosecution established through the evidence of complainant that the
 accused had demanded Rs.10,000/­ and had obtained Rs.2,000/­ from
 complainant. Thus, the question for further consideration is whether
 obtaining of Rs.2,000/­ along with other evidence could establish that it
 was illegal gratification. 108. On careful scrutiny of the evidence on record, it transpires that
 there is a direct evidence regarding demand and acceptance of bribe
 amount by accused which gives rise to the presumption under section 20 of the PC Act. 109. In my view, in the facts and circumstances of the present case, the
 events which followed in quick succession lead to the inference that CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 62 money was obtained by accused from Vinod Kumar and prosecution
 succeeded in proving that accused had demanded Rs.10,000/­ and had
 obtained Rs.2,000/­ from the complainants Amit Kumar and Nitin
 Sharma on 02.02.2014 and presumption under section 20 of the PC Act
 is also thus, attracted in the present case. DELAY IN LODGING FIR : 110. It is stated that the complaint Ex.PW2/A was filed only on
 14.02.2014 whereas alleged date of incident is 02.02.2014 and no
 clarifications was sought by the IO about the delay and in this respect
 Ld. Counsel for accused placed reliance upon V. Venkata Subharao Vs
 State , 2007 (1) RCR (Cr.) 519 SC. 111. The complaint has been filed within 12 days of the incident and
 thus, there is no delay in lodging the FIR. In fact, PW­2 and PW­3
 deposed that they tried to contact the SHO, PS Shakarpur who told them
 that there are two Vinod Kumar posted in PS Shakarpur. There does not
 appear any delay in lodging of FIR, to the judicial mind. 112. It is further argued that the IO had seized the I­phone on
 12.03.2014 whereas the complaint was lodged on 14.02.2014 and there
 is no explanation about the delay in seizing the mobile phone. The
 complaint was lodged on 14.02.2014 and the original device was seized
 within one month of the lodging of FIR and there does not seem any
 delay in seizing of mobile phone also. MISCELLANEOUS ARGUMENTS : The arrest memo of Amit Kumar reveals that the place of arrest has been
 shown as Street no. 5, School Block, Mandawali, Fazal Pur, Delhi. Even
 as per the defence witnesses, the complainant Amit Kumar was formally
 arrested in PS Shakarpur and thus, the documents regarding arrest etc.
 were prepared casually by accused with incorrect particulars and the
 accused has manipulated the documents regarding arrest, seizure etc. in
 FIR No. 22/14. DW­1 has stated that one of the boys had left the PS to
 bring the driving license but as per DW­2, no person or Amit had gone
 to bring the driving license. DW­2 has rather deposed that Amit had
 brought all the documents pertaining to his vehicle at the time when he
 had come to the room in question. Again, DW­1 has admitted that he
 was not present in the room of the IO throughout and had left the room
 of the IO once or twice to go to the washroom for about five minutes. 116. It is also argued that the accused has appeared as defence witness
 under section 315 Cr.P.C. and was cross­examined by Ld. Addl. PP but
 no suggestion was given by the Ld. Addl. PP that he had demanded
 Rs.10,000/­ and even no suggestion was given about motive and demand
 and forcefully taking out money from the pocket of Amit Kumar and
 threat to defer the work by the accused. It is also argued that suggestion CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 65 was given to DW­1 that he had left the PS immediately after putting his
 signatures on Ex.PW4/A and therefore, the prosecution has admitted the
 presence of DW­1 in the PS on 02.02.2014. It is further argued that the
 presence of Ct. Annu Yadav on 02.02.2014 was also proved as the arrest
 memo Ex.PW4/A was also got identified from DW­2. It is also argued
 that both the witnesses DW­1 and DW­2 has categorically stated that no
 money was demanded by the accused from anybody or taken any
 money. It is argued that defence witnesses are entitled to equal
 treatment and in this respect placed reliance upon Anil Sharma Vs
 State , 2004 (3) RCR (Cr.) 774 SC. Certainly defence witnesses are
 entitled to equal treatment as prosecution witnesses but the defence
 witnesses have given a totally contradictory version about the presence
 of such witnesses at the relevant time. DW­1 has admitted that he was
 not present throughout the proceedings in the room of accused and thus,
 could not have deposed about what happened in the room in his absence.
 As per accused, even Ct. Ravinder was present in the room when the
 complainant Amit Kumar had come alongwith Nitin Sharma and Mohd.
 Ismail but DW­1 has stated that no other police official was present in
 the room of accused. Even DW­2 Ct. Annu Yadav has not stated about
 the presence of Ct.Ravinder in the room of the accused at the relevant
 time. As per the version of DW­1, presence of DW­2 in the room of
 accused itself is doubtful. In such circumstances, testimony of DW­1
 and DW­2 does not inspire confidence and is not reliable. CONCLUSION : 117. It has thus, been proved that the accused has committed offence
 under section 7 and 13(1)(d) punishable under section 13(2) of CC No.15/19 State Vs Vinod Kumar 66 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 , on the basis of : 118. On the basis of the evidence led on record, the prosecution has
 been able to prove the offences under section 7 and 13(1)(d) punishable
 under section 13(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 committed by
 the accused on 02.02.2014 beyond reasonable doubt and the accused has
 not been able to prove his defence even to the extent of preponderance of
 probability. Thus, accused Vinod Kumar is held guilty for the offence
 under section 7 and 13(1)(d) punishable under section 13(2) of
 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. 119. This court appreciates the diligent and hard work of Ld. Addl. PP
 Sh. Manoj Kumar Garg, attached to this court who had provided
 outstanding cooperation and also provided latest judgments of Hon'ble
 Apex Court and Hon'ble High Court on the Prevention of Corruption Act
 which have assisted this court in the interpretation and appreciation of
 facts and law in right perspective. Digitally signed
 by KIRAN
 KIRAN BANSAL
Announced in the open court BANSAL Date: