entered into an agreement with the German company. The

respondent-company was incorporated with the express

object of adopting that agreement and carrying it into effect.

The respondent was appointed as the sole representative of

the applicant in England, Scotland and Wales for sale of

calculating machines, manufactured by them. The German

company undertook not to offer or sell, directly or indirectly,

such machines in those territories or to appoint any other

representative there. The respondent undertook not to offer

or sell in the territories any electrically operated keyboard

calculating machines of any other manufacture. The

agreement was to remain in force for one year and thereafter

from year to year. Clause 8 of the agreement provided that

in case of termination of the agreement, the respondent was

to eliminate the name Archimede Diehl from its trade name.

The agreement made no reference to the trademarks. While

the agreement remained in force, the respondent (British

company) bought large number of machines from the

applicant (German company) and promotion of these

machines in these territories was undertaken by the CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 42 of 73 respondent alone at its expense. It was the respondent

which guaranteed and services the machines it sold. No one

other than the respondent and its authorized distributors

ever sold or serviced any such machines in England,

Scotland and Wales. From 1956 onwards, the respondent

attached to the back of every machine it sold, a metal plate

which carried its name and address. The name and address

of the respondent appeared on all the advertisement and

promotional material. The name or address of the applicant,

however, did not appear in any such advertisement or

material. The respondent gave to the purchaser a twelve-

month guarantee and offered a service maintenance

agreement of every purchaser and nearly everyone accepted

that agreement. Every machine needed service twice a year.

The respondent trained and employed a large staff of skilled

maintenance engineers. It was claimed by the respondent

that its reputation in the field of calculating machines was

very largely due to their efficient after-sales service. It was

found that the purchaser knew that the respondent was the

sole source of supply in England, Scotland and Wales as

also of spare parts for them. From 1960 onwards, the

respondent used writing paper, bill headings and other CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 43 of 73 stationery having the legend "Diehl calculating machines",

followed by the respondent‟s name, address and telephone

number at their head. In 1956, the respondent applied for

registration of the word DIEHL in the register of trademarks,

but did not succeed since Diehl is a proper name in use in

that country. In April, 1960, the applicant wrote to the

respondent expressing intention to have the name DIEHL

registered in Great Britain as a trademark. In its reply dated

08th July, 1960, the respondent informed the applicant that

for many years they had been trying to register DIEHL as a

trade name in connection with calculating machines, but,

the Patent Office Rules prevented them from registering a

proper name. The respondent further informed the

applicant that recently they had file a new application since

London Telephone director showed only two such names

and it would inform the applicant regarding outcome of that

application. In the meantime, the respondent on 29 th June,

1960, made an application for registration of this trademark

and the registration was granted on 03 rd March, 1961, as of

29th June, 1960. The respondent informed the applicant in

this regard vide letter dated 24th December, 1963 and also

sent the copies of registration certificates of the applicant. CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 44 of 73 No objection was taken by the applicant then and at any

other time, to this registration nor did the applicant

complained of delay in its being told of registration until

disputes arose between the parties. The applicant never

claimed any interest in the mark. It was in these

circumstances that the claim of the respondent in respect of

the trademark DIEHL was upheld so long as the mark was

used in respect only of machines or parts made by the

applicant. The Court felt that such use of the mark was not

likely to deceive the public. During the course of judgment,

the Court, inter alia, observed as under:- It would thus be seen that facts of DIEHL‟s case

were altogether different from the facts of the present case.

Trans Tyres is not the sole distributor/sole importer/sole

selling agent of Double Coin tyres in India. It has come in

evidence that these tyres were sold to other importers as

well though in rather miniscule quantity. There is no

evidence of Trans Tyres giving any guarantee/warranty for CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 45 of 73 the Double Coin Holdings Ltd. sold by it. There is no

evidence of any after sale service being provided by Trans

Tyres in respect of the Double Coin tyres sold by it. As noted

earlier, it is not as if the customers were unaware of these

tyres being a Chinese product, manufactured by Double

Coin Holdings Ltd. Trans Tyres, itself, has been

aggressively promoting these tyres as a Chinese product

and had also taken tyre dealers to the factory of Double

Coin Holdings Ltd. in China. The advertisement released by

Trans Tyres were only in one magazine and the interviews

praising the factory manufacturing process and reputation

of Double Coin Holdings Ltd. were published in the same

magazine and, therefore, were read by the same persons,

who came across these advertisements, got published by the

Trans Tyres. In the case of DIEHL, the respondent was since

1956 putting its name and address on every machine used

by it. Trans Tyres, however, has put no label, stamp, etc.

on the tyres or on their packagings, which would connect

them with the product or with the trademark Double Coin.

The word "Trans Tyres", admittedly, was not written either

on the tyres or their packagings. More importantly, in the

case of DIEHL, the German company made no protest for CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 46 of 73 six years from coming to know of the respondent applying

for registration and three years after receiving the copy of

registration certificate, in favour of the respondent. The

conduct of the German company almost amounted to

acquiescence in these circumstances. On the other hand, in

the case before this Court, there is no material which would

indicate an acquiescence on the part of Double Coin

Holdings Ltd. Rather, it was Mr Harish Kakkad of Trans

Tyres, who wrote to the Chinese company that the brand

belonged to them and not to Trans Tyres and they were

ready to submit any papers the company wanted at any

point of time and they had no intention to use this brand for

any mala fide interest. 18. In the case of Adrema Ltd. (supra), Adrema-Werke

G.m.b.H., a German company, was engaged in

manufacturing of addressing and listing machines and

equipments, which were sold under the name "Adrema" in

Germany and were exported to many other parts of the

world. The plaintiff-company was incorporated in England

at the instance of the German-company and the whole of

the shares of English company until 1939 were held by the CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 47 of 73 German company. The English company was importing the

machines and equipments from the German company and

selling them under the name and trade name "Adrema". The

name of the German company did not appear on the

machines though the words "Foreign" or "Made in Germany" belongs to Trans Tyres. 19. The decision in the case of Omega (supra) is a

decision of the District Court in California and, therefore,

cannot be cited before this Court. In any case, the facts of

this case are also materially different from the facts of the

case before this Court. In the case of Omega (supra), a

Canadian corporation, engaged in manufacturing and CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 51 of 73 marketing of flax seed oil products, entered into an

agreement with Spectrum, a California Corporation,

whereby Spectrum agreed to become Omega‟s exclusive

distributor in the United States for flax seed oil,

manufactured by Omega Canada I. The labels affixed to the

bottles bore the mark "Veg Omega-3" and identified

Spectrum as the distributor of the product under licence to

"Omega Canada I". The label also indicated that the oil was

a product of Canada. Another important feature of this case

was that the original and all successive labels indicated that

flax seed oil was distributed using Spectrum‟s brand name

"Spectrum Naturals" which prominently featured on the

label along with Spectrum‟s logo. Spectrum had created,

developed and designed the mark Veg-Omega 3, even before

entering into the distributing agreement with Omega

Canada I. The oral agreement did not specify who owned

the right to the disputed mark. After March, 1988, the

agreement between Spectrum and Omega Canada I was

replaced by a new relationship and Alpha Nutrition Inc.

which was formed in Washington at Omega Canada I‟s

direction. Omega Canada I transferred its rights to the Veg-

Omega 3 mark to Alpha, which replaced Omega Canada I as CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 52 of 73 manufacturer of the flax seed oil. The labels which came to

be affixed on the bottles bore the trademark Veg-Omega 3

and identified Specturm as the distributor under licence to

Alpha, and indicated that the flax seed oil was a product of

U.S.A. In the year 1989, Alpha was incorporated in the

State of Washington as Omega USA which succeeded to

Alpha‟s rights to the mark. Omega USA then became the

sole Omega Corporation to manufacture and bottle flax seed

oil in United States and Alpha ceased to exist. The label on

the bottles identified Spectrum as distributor under licence

to Omega USA and indicated that the oil was a product of

U.S.A. In September 1989, the business relationship

between Spectrum and Omega USA was terminated. Omega

USA, thereafter, contended that Spectrum‟s manufacturing

and marketing of flax seed oil bearing Veg-Omega 3

trademark constitutes trademark infringement and other

violations. Spectrum, on the other hand, contended that it

was the rightful owner of the trademark and Omega USA‟s

continued use of trademark constitutes trademark

infringement and unfair competition. Since the Court found

that it was Spectrum which had created, designed and

developed the mark Veg-Omega III even before entering into CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 53 of 73 distributorship agreement with Omega Canada I, the Court

held that it was the first user of the trademark. Though

Omega Canada I claimed to have shipped its first

assignment three weeks before Spectrum claimed first use

on October 11, 1987. The Court noted that even if the oil

which was sent to Spectrum on September 18, 1987, it

would have been marketed and distributed by Spectrum,

making use of the mark which it had created, designed and

developed. During the course of the judgment, the Court

observed that distributor‟s use of trademark automatically

inures to the manufacturer of the product only when the

manufacturer is the rightful owner of the trademark and the

licence to distribute the product includes the licence to use

the manufacturer‟s mark. However, in the case before this

Court, Trans Tyres does not claim to have created, designed

or developed the trademark Double Coin and, therefore use

of the aforesaid mark by it in India inured to the

manufacturer of the product, i.e., Double Coin Holdings

Ltd., China. During the course of the judgment, the Court

also observed that in the absence of an agreement between

the parties, the relevant factors besides registration, would

include 1) which party invented and first affixed the mark CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 54 of 73 onto the product; 2) which party‟s name appeared with the

trademark; 3) which party maintained the quality and

uniformity of the product and; 4) with which party did the

public identify the product and make complaints. It was

found that it was Spectrum which had created the

trademark and supervised its artistic rendering even before

reaching its distribution agreement with Omega Canada I,

it was Spectrum which was solely using the mark Veg-

Omega 3 in connection with Spectrum‟s name and Omega

Corporations promotional material did not make any

reference to the mark Veg-Omega-3, the explanation sheets

inserted in the boxes stated that the product was of

Spectrum, the labels used during party‟s business

relationship prominently featured Spectrum‟s brand name

and logo directly above the trademark which mentioned

Omega in tiny print in the lower left hand corner and two

current distributors of Omega flax products were not using

the trademark Veg-Omega 3 to designate their products. It

was also found that Spectrum was bearing the

responsibility of maintaining the quality of the product.

None of these features are present in the case before this

Court. The name of Trans Tyres does not appear anywhere CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 55 of 73 either on the product or on its packaging, there is no

evidence of Trans Tyres being responsible for the quality of

the product and providing any after sale service. This is also

not the case of Trans Tyres that the brand Double Coin was

not being used by the Chinese company in its promotional

material. Therefore, this judgment, to my mind, cannot be

applied to the facts of the case before this Court. 20. In the case of ITC Ltd. (supra), there were disputes

with respect to the use of the name „Bukhara‟ in respect of

restaurant services. It was found that the plaintiff had not

used the mark in United States for more than three years.

ITC had sued certain individuals for using the name

Bukhara as also the related trade dress. The case of ITC

was based on its being qualified for protection as a famous

mark based on its international use. However, in the case

before this Court, Trans Tyres did not start using the mark

Double Coin on its own products. It only imported the tyres

and tubes manufactured by Double Coin Holdings Ltd.

China and selling those goods in India under the very same

mark which was affixed on them by Double Coin Holdings

Ltd. during the process of manufacturing the product. CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 56 of 73 Therefore, it cannot be said that Double Coin Holdings Ltd.

had not used the mark Double Coin in India. In the facts

and circumstances of the case, use of the trademark Double

Coin in India would be a use by a Double Coin Holdings Ltd.

China and not by Trans Tyres which was only importing

and selling those goods. 21. In Dental Manufacturing Company Ltd. (supra),

one person named Clark in America was manufacturing a

special kind of spittoon, intended for use in a dentist‟s

business. He held a patent in USA for spittoons. By an

agreement with Clark, the defendants had been granted

exclusive right and agency to sell and distribute those

spittoons. The defendants appointed the plaintiffs as their

sole distributing agents for the sale of those spittoons in

United Kingdom and under that agreement, the defendants

sold the spittoons supplied to them by Clark to the plaintiffs

who retailed them to the purchasers in the United Kingdom.

In a circular, issued to them, the plaintiffs were described

as general distributors and defendants as sole whole sale

agents for those articles. The case setup by the defendant

was that the "Clark Fountain spittoons" was got up in a CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 57 of 73 manner which had become distinctive of that article in the

market and that this get up of his spittoons was associated

with the business of the defendants as sole agents for the

sale thereof so as to indicate spittoons sold by them. The

defendants had always sold the spittoons just as they were

got up by the Clark and had not made use of any get up of

their own (as distinguished from the get up of the spittoons

as manufactured by Clark). On expiry of Clark‟s patent in

USA, the agreement with the defendants under which the

plaintiffs acted as sole distributing agents of the Clark

spittoons in the UK was terminated and the plaintiffs begun

to manufacture and sell the spittoon. The defendants

claimed that this spittoon was so got up as to be an

imitation of their spittoons. Since the Court found nothing

in the get up of the goods to identify them with the

defendant, so as to associate those goods with the

defendant in the United Kingdom, it found no merit in the

counter-claim of the defendant against manufacture or sale

of spittoons by the plaintiff, which after termination of the

agreement had started manufacturing its own spittoons.

The Court was of the view that the mere fact that a person

seeing an article would associate them to be a Clark‟s CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 58 of 73 spittoon was not sufficient for the defendant to maintain an

action of passing off. The proposition of law which emerges

from this case is that if the sole distributor was selling the

goods without changing any change in the get up, the

customer would not identify or associate the product with

him. During the course of the decision, it was observed that

plaintiffs‟ goods need not be goods manufactured by him,

they may be goods which he purchases or which he imports

or otherwise acquires and which he sells under some get up

which conveys that they are goods, which, whether imported

or sold by him carry with them the advantage of the

reputation that the plaintiff‟s firm is responsible for the

quality of their character and a person dealing with the

goods of another may have a goodwill in the business of

dealings with them. It was further observed that the

defendant as the sole agent may have a goodwill in respect

of that business and if they had a get up of their own under

which they sold Clark‟s goods, they may succeed in a

passing off action. Since the defendant did not have any get

up/packaging of its own, its claim for passing off was

rejected by the Court. In the case before this Court also

since Trans Tyres has been selling the goods without any CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 59 of 73 get up of its own and without indicating any connection

between it and the product or the trademark affixed on it, it

is not entitled to maintain an action for passing off against

the Double Coin Holdings Ltd. which not only manufactures

the product, but also owns the trademark which was put on

the product during the process of manufacturing. 22. In Brimingham Vinegar Brewery Company

(supra), the respondent had for many years made and sold a

sauce by the name "Yorkshire Relish" and before 1894, no

other sauce was sold under that name. In 1894, the

appellants put up in market a sauce very like with the

respondents and they sold it at a cheaper rate as a

"Yorkshire Relish". The appellants/defendants labels and

wrappers were distinguished from the

respondents/plaintiffs, but there was evidence that

purchasers who asked for "Yorkshire Relish" had been

supplied with appellants/defendants product instead of the

product of the respondent/plaintiff. It was contended on

behalf of the appellant/defendants that there was no

representation by it that its product was the manufacture of

the original inventor because "Yorkshire Relish" had become CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 60 of 73 a well-known article and calling it by that name meant it

was that thing. Rejecting the contention, the Court, inter

alia, observed as under: Lord Davey had the following observations to

make: In the case before this Court, the customers have

been purchasing the tyres manufactured by Double Coin

Holdings Ltd. China. It is Trans Tyres own case in the

interview of Mr. Harish Kakkad published in TransTopics

that this is a high quality product manufactured in a state

of the art factory which is ten times bigger than any radial

manufacturing facility in India. A person buying tyre sold

under the brand name Double Coin would, therefore

connect it with the manufacturer which has in the past

being manufacturing the tyres sold under this brand name.

If Trans Tyres is allowed to use the trademark Double Coin

on the tyres which are manufactured by some other

manufacturer, the customer, who purchases those tyres is

likely to be deceived since he would purchase them on the

assumption that these tyres had been manufactured by the

same manufacturer though that would not be factually

correct. It would, therefore, amount to Trans Tyres passing

off its goods as those of the Double Coin Holdings Ltd. CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 63 of 73 China. Moreover, if the quality of the product is not found to

be as good as of the product manufactured by Double Coin

Holdings Ltd. China, that may seriously affect the

reputation and brand value which the trademark Double

Coin enjoys in the market and thereby adversely affect

Double Coin Holdings Ltd. China because the consumer

may in such a case presumes that the Chinese company

has lowered the quality of its product and the tyres

manufactured by it were no more of the same quality which

they used to be in the past. 23. In N.R. Dongre and Ors. vs Whirlpool

Corporation And Anr. , (1996) 5 SCC 714, the mark/name

Whirlpool was associated with the plaintiff Whirlpool

Corporation much prior to the defendants application for its

registration in the year 1986. Recognizing trans-border

reputation of the trademark Whirlpool, the Court felt that

the mark gave an indication of the origin of the goods as

emanating from or relating to Whirlpool Corporation and,

therefore, there was likelihood of the persons buying

defendant‟s washing machines being sold under the same

name being confused or misled to believe that these were CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 64 of 73 the products of the plaintiff‟s Whirlpool Corporation. The

Court held that in a case of passing off, injunction could be

granted even against the proprietor of a registered

trademark. In the case before this Court, Trans Tyres does

not have any manufacturing capacity, whereas Double Coin

Holdings Ltd. China has already been selling its goods in

India. Therefore, the case of Double Coin Holdings Ltd.

stands on a much stronger footing, as compared to the case

of Whirlpool Corporation. 24. The learned counsel for Trans Tyres has in her

compilation also referred to Alain Bernadin ET Compagnie

vs. Pavillion Properties Ltd. 1967 RPC 581, Persons Co.

Ltd. vs. Christmas 14 USPQ 2d 1477, Menendez vs. Holt

128 US (514) 1888, IMAF vs. JC Penney Co. 806 F.

(Suppl.) 449 ( 1992), Uniply Industries Vs. Unicorn

Plywood 2001 PTC 513, Gillette Company vs. A.K.

Stationery 2001 PTC 513 Procter & Gamble vs. Satish

Patel 1996 PTC (16) 646, Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt vs.

Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories 1965 1 SCR 737,

Ruston & Hornsby vs. Zamindara Engineering Co. PTC

(Suppl 1) 175 SC, whereas the learned counsel for the CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 65 of 73 Double Coin Holdings Ltd. referred to Rob Mathys (Del DB)

(2001) 5 SCC 73, Koninkilijke Philips Electronics NV Vs.

Smt Kanta Arora and Ors 2005 ( 30) PTC 589 (Del), B.K.

Enginnering Co. vs. UBHI Enterprises (Regd. ) AIR 1985

Delhi 210 Shri Virumal Parveen Kumar vs. Gokal Chand

Hari Chand MANU/DE/1639/2002 , Ziff-Davis Inc. Vs. Dr.

D.K. Jain and Ors MANU/DE/0215/1998, Ziff Davis (DB)

(2006) 56 DRJ 806, Lowenbrau (Del) 157 (2009) DLT 791,

Marico Ltd. vs. Agro Tech Foods Limited 174 (2010) DLT

279 (DB), Marico Ltd. vs. Agro Tech Foods Ltd 169 ( 2010)

DLT 325, Jolen INC. Vs. Doctor & Co. 80 (2002) DLT 77,

Prina Chemical (Del) DB ILR (1974) DEL 545, Milmet (SC)

(2004) 12 SCC 624, Austin Nichols (Del) 2006 (32) PTC 133

(DEL), Medivision Scan (Ker) 2004 (2) KLT 772, M/s

Power Control Applicances & Ors. vs. Sumeet Machines

Pvt Ltd. (1940) 2 SCC 448, William Edge & Sons vs.

William Niccolls & Sons (1911) AC 693 (HL) and F.

Hoffmann-La Roche & Company A.G. vs. DDSA

Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (1972) RPC 1 (Ch D). I, however, do not find any such proposition of law

in any of these decisions which would persuade me to take CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 66 of 73 a view that the goodwill in the trademark Double Coin in

India belongs to Trans Tyres or that the customers in India

have come to associate this mark with Trans Tyres. 25. For the reasons given in the preceding paragraphs,

I am of the view that prima facie 1) it is Double Coin

Holdings Ltd. and not Trans Tyres (India) Pvt. Ltd. which

first used the trademark Double Coin in India; 2) the

ownership and goodwill in the trademark Double Coin

continues to vest in Double Coin Holdings Ltd. China which

has been putting this mark on the tyres and tubes

manufactured by it and which were also imported and sold

in India by Trans Tyres; 3) the customers in India do not

associate or identify the brand Double Coin with Trans

Tyres. Trans Tyres, therefore, despite having a registration

in its favour, does not have any legal right to use the

trademark Double Coin on any tyre or tube which is not

manufactured by Double Coin Holdings Ltd. China. On the

other hand, being the first user of the trademark Double

Coin and manufacture of the tyres which are being sold in

India under the brand name Double Coin, it is Double Coin

Holdings Ltd. China which has legal right to use that mark CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 67 of 73 in India and, therefore, has a prima facie case against use of

that mark by Trans Tyres on any tyre or tube which is not

manufactured by Double Coin Holdings Ltd. China. 26. As rightly contended by the learned counsel for the

plaintiff, in the facts and circumstances of this case, the

customer, on coming across a tyre/tube being sold under

the name Double Coin, is likely to connect the product to

the Chinese manufacturer and, therefore, if Trans Tyres is

allowed to get tyres and/or tubes manufactured from

another source and sell them under the brand name Double

Coin, it is likely to confuse the customer and in fact may

also deceive him because he would buy the product in the

belief that he was purchasing a Chinese radial of superior

quality manufactured by Double Coin Holdings Ltd, which

has a state of the art manufacturing plant in China, has

capacity to manufacture as many as 6 million radial tyres in

a year, employs the state of art manufacturing process and

maintains stringent quality controls. It is, therefore,

necessary that only those products are sold under the name

Double Coin, which are manufactured by Double Coin

Holdings Ltd., China. CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 68 of 73 27. Admittedly, Trans Tyres is neither manufacturing

nor outsourcing the manufacture of tyres. Double Coin

Holdings Ltd., on the other hand, is an established

manufacturer of tyres and tubes and has been selling these

products in India since the year 2005. No substantial harm

is, therefore, likely to be caused to Trans Tyres if it is

restrained from selling tyres under the brand name Double

Coin. Double Coin Holdings Ltd. on the other hand is likely

to suffer irreparable loss if it is not allowed to sell tyres,

which it has been selling in Indian market for the last about

6 years. The balance of convenience, therefore, lies in

favour of Double Coin Holdings and not in favour of Trans

Tyres. As regards tubes also, since Trans Tyres has not

been manufacturing facility of its own and has only

outsourced the supply of tubes while continuing to import

tubes from Double Coin Holdings along with the tyres, no

irreparable loss is likely to be caused to it, if it is restrained

from manufacturing or getting manufactured and selling

tubes in India under the name Double Coin unless they

have been manufactured by Double Coin Holdings, China. 28. Since Trans Tyres has no facility for manufacture CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 69 of 73 of tyre or tubes in India no prejudice will be caused to it if it

is not allowed to use the trademark Double Coin on the

tyres and tubes which are not manufactured by Double

Coin Holdings Ltd. China. The facilities which Trans Tyres

claims to have setup in India can be used for trading of

other tyres which it is selling in India. It may, if so decides,

get the tyres and tubes manufactured from some other

manufacturer and sell them under its own brand name

which it may adopt for this purpose. On the other hand, if injunction is not granted to

Double Coin Holdings Ltd. against use of the trademark

Double Coin on the tyres or tubes which are not

manufactured by it, that may cause irreparable loss to the

Chinese company since Trans Tyres may introduce in

market products manufactured by other manufacturers and

sell them under the trademark Double Coin. This would,

not only create confusion in the mind of the customer with

respect to the origin/source of the product, it may also

result in deceiving him since while buying tyres and tubes

bearing the trade mark Double Coin, he would be

presuming that these are the same products which he had CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 70 of 73 so far been purchasing though, in fact, the products would

be altogether different having been manufactured by some

other company. If the quality of that product is not found to

be as good as of the products being manufactured and sold

by Double Coin Holdings Ltd. China, that may affect the

reputation and credibility of Double Coin Holdings Ltd. and

value of its brand not only in India, but also in other

countries since the customer may assume that this

company is no more a quality manufacturer of tyres and

tubes and that is why the product is no more as good as it

used to be. If this so happens, it may also affect the

reputation which the trademark Double Coin enjoys in a

number of countries. 29. Admittedly, rectification proceedings are already

pending before the Trade Mark Registry. Section 124 of the

Trademarks Act, to the extent it is relevant provides that in

such cases, the Court shall stay the suit pending final

disposal of such proceedings though such stay will not

preclude the Court from making any interlocutory order,

including the order granting an injunction. The final order

made in rectification proceedings shall be binding upon the CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 71 of 73 parties and the Court is required to dispose of the suit in

conformity with such order in as far as it relates to the

validity of the registration of the trade mark. 30. For the reasons given in the preceding paragraphs,

further proceedings in the suit are stayed till disposal of the

rectification proceedings pending before IPAB. Trans Tyres

(India) Pvt. Ltd. is hereby restrained, during pendency of the

suit, from selling any tyre or tube bearing the trademark

Double Coin or a mark deceptively similar to the aforesaid

mark unless that product has been manufactured by

Double Coin Holdings Ltd. China. Trans Tyres, however, is

permitted to liquidate those tubes which it has already got

manufactured in India under the trademark Double Coin

subject to its filing an affidavit within three working days,

giving exact number of such tubes and its maintaining a full

and complete account of the tubes which it has so far got

manufactured in India under the trademark Double Coin. It

is made clear that henceforth Trans Tyres will not get any

tyre or tube manufactured under the trademark Double

Coin. Both the applications stand disposed of in terms of

this order. The observations made in this order being CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 72 of 73 prima facie and tentative will not affect the decision of the

suits on merits. CS(OS) Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011

 List on 14th July, 2011 for framing of issues. (V.K. JAIN)
 JUDGE
April 20, 2011
vkm/bg CS(OS)Nos. 89/2011 and 90/2011 Page 73 of 73