The petitioners are before this Court calling in question

registration of crime in RC0782021E0002 for offences punishable

under Sections 420 , 468 , 471 r/w Section 120B of the IPC and Sections 7 , 13(2) r/w 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act,

1988 . 2. Brief facts that led the petitioners to this Court in the

subject petition are as follows:- 3. When things stood thus, on 09-01-2019 a GST raid was

conducted against the 1st petitioner/Company and all the records

were seized and directions were issued to the Banks not to interact

with the Company. Due to this problem, the loans of the 1st

petitioner insofar as they pertain to the Banks i.e., Indian Bank and

Bank of Baroda slipped into becoming a Non-Performing Asset

(NPA) and having waited for another year, the consortium of Banks

which was consisting State Bank of India, Indian Bank headed by

Bank of Baroda caused a legal notice upon the Company under Section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act. On 29.05.2019 one of the

member of the consortium i.e., Bank of Baroda declared the 5 accounts of the Company with them as NPA. The petitioners replied

to the legal notice issued by the Indian Bank and the Indian Bank

on consideration of the reply notice went on to exercise its powers

under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act and sought to mortgage

immovable properties of the petitioners. This came about on

22-07-2019. 4. Since GST raid had been conducted, a forensic audit was

sought to be conducted of the accounts with the consortium of

Banks covering the period from 26-09-2017 to 31-05-2019 and

pending report of the forensic audit, the Indian Bank sought to

proceed further in terms of a notice that was given on 22-07-2019

under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act by issuing possession

notices. Those possession notices were challenged before this Court

in Writ Petition No.32112 of 2019. This Court did not entertain the

petition, but directed the petitioners to approach the Debt Recovery

Tribunal at Bangalore under the provisions of the SARFAESI Act .

The respondents began to seal the godowns of the petitioners

situated in Karnataka which came to be challenged before this

Court and other parts of the country wherever godowns were 6 sought to be sealed and on 14-02-2020 the Indian Bank issued a

communication to the petitioners informing them that the Bank has

taken a decision to declare the Company as 'willful defaulter' and a

notice with regard to the same was issued upon the petitioners on

20-02-2020. This was called in question before this Court in Writ

Petition No. 4777 of 2020. This Court by its order dated

02-03-2020 stayed all further proceedings initiated by the Bank

which was to be in operation till the next date of hearing. 5. Pending the aforesaid writ petition, the other member of

the consortium namely Bank of Baroda gave its consent to the

Indian Bank which was the leader of the consortium for filing of a

complaint with the CBI in terms of its communication dated

09-03-2020. It is here the respondent/CBI comes into the picture.

A case in No.RC0782021E0002 came to be registered by the CBI,

Banking Securities Fraud Branch on 12.01.2021 against the

petitioners for offences punishable under Sections 420, 468, 471

r/w 120B of the IPC and Sections 7 , 13(2) and 13(4) of the

Prevention of Corruption Act. It is calling the action of registration 7 of the crime, the petitioners have knocked the doors of this Court in

the subject petition. 6. Heard Sri Sandesh J.Chouta, learned senior counsel

appearing for the petitioners, Sri P.Prasanna Kumar, learned

Special Public Prosecutor for respondent No.1 and Sri K.

Shashikiran Shetty, learned senior counsel appearing for

respondent No.2. 7. The learned senior counsel representing the petitioners

would contend that the procedure stipulated by the Reserve Bank of

India in terms of its circulars for declaration of a Company to be a

'willful defaulter' is not followed. Willful defaulter stands on a

different footing and for reference of the matter to the CBI those

companies stand on a different footing. It has to pass through the

circulars issued from time to time by the Reserve Bank of India

which are in the nature of master circulars. He would further

contend that in the teeth of the earlier interim order granted by this

Court, the Indian Bank could not have registered a complaint with

the CBI as all further proceedings had been stayed by this Court. 8 The writ petition came to be disposed of after registration of the

crime on the ground that the Bank would reconsider the case of the

petitioners insofar as it pertains to declaration of the Company to

be a willful defaulter. He would finally contend that the entire

proceedings are to be annulled and the matter be remitted back to

the appropriate authority to reconsider the matter afresh from the

stage of declaration of the petitioner as a wilful defaulter. 8. On the other hand, the learned counsel appearing for the

2nd respondent/complainant, the Indian Bank, would contend that

those circulars are not even applicable to the facts of the case. The

Bank cannot lose its right of filing a complaint for offences

punishable under the IPC , before any competent investigating

authority as declaration of willful defaulter and registration of crime

for offences under the IPC are entirely different. If the case of the

petitioners is considered on the plea of technicalities Rs.200/-

crores would be at stake which is public money. 9. The learned Special Public Prosecutor representing the 1st

respondent/CBI would submit that since a complaint was registered 9 before the CBI by the 2nd respondent on behalf of the consortium of

Banks, the CBI has proceeded to investigate into the matter. Both

the learned counsel for the respondents would seek dismissal of the

petition contending that it is a matter of trial for the petitioners to

come out clean. 10. I have given my anxious consideration to the submissions

made by the respective learned senior counsel, the learned Special

Public Prosecutor for the CBI and learned counsel for 2nd respondent

and have perused the material on record. 11. The afore-quoted facts are not in dispute. To consider the

contentions so advanced of the petitioner/Company to be a willful

defaulter or otherwise, it is germane to notice master circulars

issued by the Reserve Bank of India which is binding upon

consortium of Banks. The Reserve Bank has issued a master

circular on 'willful defaulter'. The purpose of issuing the master

circular is as follows: The application of the said circular is to all scheduled commercial

banks and All India notified financial institutions. Its applicability to

the consortium of Banks or to the 2nd respondent/Bank is not in

dispute. Whether it is applicable to the case at hand is the dispute.

Clause 2 of the said circular deals with willful defaulters. Clause

2.1.3 defines who would be the willful defaulter and it reads as

follows: The identification of the willful default should be made keeping
in view the track record of the borrowers and should not be
decided on the basis of isolated transactions/ incidents. The
default to be categorized as willful must be intentional
deliberate and calculated." Clause 2.5 deals with penal measures and reads as follows: Clause 3 deals with mechanism for identification of willful

defaulters. Relevant clauses read as follows: time director and call for their submissions and after
 considering their submissions issue an order recording
 the fact of willful default and the reasons for the same.
 An opportunity should be given to the borrower and the
 promoter/whole-time director for a personal hearing if
 the Committee feels such an opportunity is necessary." 13 Clause 4 deals with criminal action against willful defaulters.

The relevant clause that is germane is clause 4.2 and it reads: It is essential to recognize that there is scope even under the
 existing legislation to initiate criminal action against willful
 defaulters depending upon the facts and circumstances of the
 case under the provisions of Sections 403 and 415 of the
 Indian Penal Code ( IPC ), 1860, Banks/ FIs are, therefore,
 advised to seriously and promptly consider initiating criminal
 action against willful defaulters or wrong certification by
 borrowers, wherever considered necessary, based on the facts
 and circumstances of each case under the above provisions of
 the IPC to comply with our instructions and the
 recommendation of JPC. It should also be ensured that the penal provisions are used
 effectively and determinedly but after careful consideration
 and due caution. Towards this end, banks/FIs are advised to
 put in place a transparent mechanism, with the approval of
 their Board, for initiating criminal proceedings based on the
 facts of individual case." The aforesaid clauses are the ones which identify, declare, penalize

and take the said issue of willful default to its logical end. Clause 14 2.1.3 directs that a unit which has defaulted in its payment to the

lender and has not utilized the finance from the lender for the

specific purpose for which finance was availed of, but has diverted

the funds for other purposes, such a unit would be declared a willful

defaulter. Sub-clause (b) of clause 2.5 directs that legal process,

wherever wanted against borrowers, guarantors and foreclosure of

recovery of dues should be initiated expeditiously on those persons

who are declared to be willful defaulters. Identification of willful

defaulters is dealt with under Clause 3. A committee is to be

constituted headed by the Executive Director and that committee

should conclude that the unit is to be declared as willful defaulter

and issue a show cause notice to the concerned borrower, call for

submissions, record the same and then declare the unit as willful

defaulter. Criminal action against such willful defaulters should be

initiated after careful consideration and due caution is what clause

sub-clause (ii) of clause 4.2 mandates. This is the scheme of

declaration of a unit to be a willful defaulter. 12. Subsequent to the circular so issued by the Reserve Bank

of India on 1st July 2015, a subsequent circular is issued on 1st July 15 2016 in furtherance of the said circular. The circular was called the

Reserve Bank of India (Frauds Classification and Reporting by

Commercial Banks and Select FIs) Directions 2016. The purpose

for issuance of the said circular is as found in clause 1.3 which

reads as follows: Clause 2.2 deals with classification of frauds and it reads as follows: a. cases of cash shortage more than Rs.10,000/- (including at ATMs) and

 b. cases of cash shortage more than Rs.5,000/- if
 detected by management/auditor/inspecting
 officer and not reported on the day of occurrence
 by the persons handling cash." Chapter VI of the circular deals with guidelines for reporting frauds

to Police/CBI. Clause 6.1 details about such reporting. In a case of

public sector Bank if amount involved is below 30 million the

agency to whom the complaint is to be made is the State Police and

if it is 250 million and up to 500 million it is to the CBI. It is in 17 terms of this clause the Indian Bank has registered the complaint

with the CBI. This is the broad framework of the master circulars

issued by the Reserve Bank of India for declaration as willful

defaulters and borrowers who had indulged in fraud. 13. In the light of the afore-quoted framework, if the facts

narrated, in the case at hand are considered, the unmistakable

inference would be that the entire proceedings having been initiated

against the petitioners in terms of the afore-quoted circulars, the

submission that the circulars are not applicable to the facts of the

case at hand is rendered unsustainable, as it is fundamentally

flawed. The issue with regard to applicability of the circular or

otherwise, will have to be placed to the background, in the light of

the other submission made by the learned senior counsel for the

petitioners with regard to the act of the respondents in

overreaching the order, albeit, interim, passed by this Court. 14. The petitioners had been declared to be willful defaulters

by communications dated 14-02-2020 and 20-02-2020 by invoking

the aforesaid circulars. They were called in question before this 18 Court in Writ Petition No.4777 of 2020. This Court granted an

interim order of stay of all further proceedings pursuant to

declaration of the petitioner/Company to be a willful defaulter. The

interim order was operating up to 15-04-2021. On 15-04-2021 the

counsel appearing for the 2nd respondent appeared before the Court

and submitted that the petition may be disposed of remitting the

matter to the Review Committee of the Indian Bank. Reserving

liberty to the Committee to consider the matter afresh in the light

of the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of State Bank of

India v. M/s Jah Developers Private Limited, an order is passed by

the Court accepting the submission of the learned counsel for the

Indian Bank while disposing of the petition, which reads as follows: The order was passed on 15-04-2021. What the 2nd respondent/

Bank would do is register a complaint before the CBI on

12-01-2021, the knowledge of which was never with the

petitioners. It is not demonstrated by the 2nd respondent/Bank that

the petitioners had the knowledge of registration of crime at any

time before summons. Though the complaint was made by the 2nd

respondent/Bank on 12-01-2021, it appeared before the Court and

made a submission that the root of the matter would be re-

considered, the root of the matter being declaration of the

petitioner/ Company as a willful defaulter. To a pointed query of

this Court to the learned counsel representing the 2nd respondent as

to what has happened to the submission made on 15-04-2021

before this Court with regard to re-consideration of the case of the

petitioner to be a willful defaulter, the learned senior counsel would

submit that the matter is still pending consideration before the

Competent Authority. Therefore, from 15-04-2021 till 14-07-2022 20 there was no progress in re-consideration of the case of the

petitioner to be a willful defaulter. 15. The entire issue of declaration of the petitioner as willful

defaulter and subsequent action of registration of a crime was on

the basis of the declaration of the petitioner to be a willful defaulter

or a fraudulent borrower. That having been stayed by this Court

and the stay being in operation up to 15-04-2021, the 2nd

respondent concealing the said fact of pendency of the case, could

not have registered the crime, as the basis for registration of crime

was the account being slipped into NPA on whatever score it would

be, and the declaration of the petitioner as willful defaulter having

been stayed, it could not have appeared before the Court without

divulging the fact that a complaint had already been registered

before the CBI, get the matter disposed of, to re-consider the very

root that led to registration of the crime. If the very root is to be

reconsidered according to the Bank, it can hardly be justified as to

how a crime could be registered in the teeth of subsistence of

interim order during the pendency of the writ petition and

subsistence of reconsideration at the hands of the 2nd 21 respondent/Bank. It is not the merit of the matter that needs

consideration at the hands of this Court, but it is the act of the 2nd

respondent/Bank in trying to overreach the interim order of this

Court by registering the crime. 16. As a matter of fact even disposal of the writ petition did

not obliterate the interim order. The petition was disposed of by

remitting the matter to the Review Committee to consider the same

afresh, that too on the submission made by the senior counsel

representing the 2nd respondent/Bank. Therefore, the very act of

the Bank in registering the crime during subsistence of the interim

order and getting the matter closed where interim order was

subsisting on the ground that it would reconsider the very

declaration of the petitioner to be a willful defaulter was flawed.

Without arriving at the said decision even as on date, the 2nd

respondent cannot now justify that the proceedings have to go on

pursuant to registration of crime. The meat in the merit of the

matter need not be gone into at this juncture, as it is on the

submission of the 2nd respondent/Bank itself, in the earlier 22 proceedings, the matter is required to be reconsidered from the

issue of declaring the petitioner to be willful defaulter. 17. The submission of the learned senior counsel representing

the 2nd respondent/Bank that master circulars are not even

applicable to the case at hand is to be repelled as it is

fundamentally flawed, as every action against the petitioner is

taken under the master circulars. Since the matter is pending

consideration before the Review Committee of the Indian Bank even

as on date, it would be highly inappropriate to permit the 1st

respondent/CBI to continue with the proceedings which were

registered in the teeth and contrary to the interim order passed by

this Court. 18. The other submissions made by the learned senior

counsel with regard to the declaration of willful defaulter or a fraud

would have to be placed behind the curtains, albeit, for the present,

as it would depend upon the outcome of the decision of the Review

Committee, before whom all the issues of declaration of the

petitioner to be a willful defaulter are pending consideration. All 23 further actions of the respondents would depend upon the outcome

of the decision of the Review Committee. Permitting further

proceedings to continue in the teeth of the aforesaid facts would

become an abuse of the process of law and result in permitting an

action which is initiated in an attempt to overreach the orders of

this Court, which action sans countenance. 19. For the aforesaid reasons, I pass the following: Consequently, I.A.No.2/2021 stands disposed. Sd/- JUDGE

bkp
CT:MJ