1. Both the accused namely Vikas Yadav

 son of Sh DP Yadav R/o R 4/16, Raj Nagar,

 Ghaziabad, UP and accused Vishal Yadav son

 late Sh. Kamal Raj Yadav R/o R 5/45, Raj

 Nagar Ghaziabad, UP have been sent up for 2 trial U/s 364/302/201/ 34 IPC . 2. The facts as set out in the charge sheet

 and emerging from the record and documents

 are as follows:­ i) The prosecution case is that on 17.2.02

 at about 1:15pm the complainant Smt Neelam

 Katara alongwith Ajay Prasad R/o AC H No.

 500 Vasant Kunj New Delhi reached PS Kavi

 Nagar Ghaziabad and lodged a written

 complaint to the effect that on 16.02.02 her son

 Nitish Katara (now deceased) had attended the

 marriage of Shivani d/o Late Sh. BK Gaur r/o

 58 Model Town, West Ghaziabad and Nitish

 took meals alongwith his friends Diwakar and

 Gaurav Gupta. It is further mentioned in the

 complaint that Bharat Diwakar informed that

 while they were taking meals, Vishal s/o Late

 Sh. Kamal Raj Yadav came to them and Rohit 3 s/o Sh BK Gaur told that Vikas s/o Sh DP

 Yadav and Vishal s/o Late Sh Kamal Raj Yadav

 R/o Ghaizabad had arrived there at 12/12.30

 mid night. It is further mentioned in the

 complaint that Vishal and Vikas took Nitish

 outside while talking. Thereafter when Bharat

 Diwakar could not see Nitish so he came back

 to their house. She expressed in her complaint

 that she suspected happening of some untoward

 incident. ii) It is further mentioned in the complaint

 that her son Nitish and Bharti Yadav d/o Sh D

 P Yadav studied together in IMT in the year

 1998 ­ 2000 and they were friends but Vishal

 and Vikas did not like their friendship. She

 requested the police authority to record her

 complaint and to take necessary action. iii) On the basis of the aforesaid complaint 4 case FIR No. 83 Ex. PW 1/2 case No. 192/02

U/s. 364 IPC was registered by PW1 HC

Netarpal Singh. The investigation was handed

over to PW 35 SI Anil Somania PS Kavi Nagar.

He started the investigation with the recording

of the statement of HC Netarpal Singh U/s. 161 Cr.PC . Thereafter the detailed statement U/s 161 CrPC of the complainant Smt. Neelam Katara

was recorded, whereby she stated that on

16.02.02 her son Nitish Katara (now deceased)

and his friend Bharat Diwakar left the house at

9pm for attending the marriage of Shivani Gaur

at Diamond Place Ghaizabad. When Nitish

did not return home, Bharat Diwakar told her

that at 12/12.30 midnight Nitish while talking

to Vishal son of Late Sh Kamal Raj Yadav had

gone out of the Diamond Palace and Rohit son

of Sh B K Gaur R/o. 58, Model Town West 5 Ghaziabad had also told him that Vikas s/o Sh

DP Yadav and Vishal son of Late Sh Kamal

Raj Yadav had arrived at Diamond Palace at 12/

12.30 mid night and while talking to Nitish had

taken him outside. She further stated that

deceased had friendship with Bharti Yadav d/o

DP Yadav R/o Rajnagar since they both studied

together in IMT Ghaizabad in the year 1998­

2000. Her son was on visiting terms to the

house of Bharti and were close friend and

perhaps this was not liked by Vishal and Vikas.

For this reason she apprehended the happening

of some untoward incident with her son Nitish

Katara by accused Vishal and Vikas. She

further disclosed that her son was wearing red

coloured kurta , white churidaar pajama and

a shawl and Esprit watch in his hand. A poster

bearing the photograph of the deceased Nitish 6 Katara Ex.PW 1/DA under the title Talash

Apharit (search for abducted person) was

issued. Thereafter the statement of Bharat

Diwakar son of Sh RK Diwakar r/o C 24 Shivaji

Nagar PS Habibganj Bhopal (MP) was recorded

U/s 161 Cr PC who stated that he had taken

admission in IMT Ghaziabad for MBA course in

the year 1998 and Nitish Katara, Gaurav Gupta,

Bharti d/o Sh DP Yadav were also studying in

IMT alongwith him, whereas Shivani Gaur was

doing Executive MBA course from IMT and

they were all friends and were on visiting terms

with each other and they also used to attend

functions at each other's place. Their course

ended in the year 2000 and thereafter he

started working as Manager MICOWOSH at

Ahmedabad but still they used to talk to each

other on telephone. He stated that the 7 marriage of Shivani Gaur was fixed for

16.02.202. To attend the marriage he had

reached Delhi in the morning of 15/02/02 by

train and went to the house of Nitish. On

15.02.02 in the evening the ladies sangeet was

organised at the house of Shivani Gaur which

was attended by him alongwith Nitish at her

residence at Ghaziabad. Besides, their friend

Bharti Yadav, her sister Bhawna Yadav and their

cousin brother Rakesh @ Rocky were also

present there and all of them had danced in

the ladies sangeet. It is stated that on 16.2.02

they had reached Diamond Palace Ghaizabad

at about 10.15 pm to attend the marriage of

Shivani Gaur. After meeting Shivani Gaur and

her family members he alongwith the deceased

and Gaurav Gupta reached the garden for

meals and while they were taking meals at 8 about 12 mid night one tall and fair person

came there and told the deceased ''Maine

Aapko Kahin Dekha Hain, Aapka Naam Kya

Hain''. At this deceased disclosed his name to

the said person and they both started talking to

each other at some distance from Bharat

Diwakar and Gaurav and while so talking that

tall and fair person took the deceased outside

the Diamond Palace. Bharat Diwakar and

Gaurav waited for him but he did not return

and during this period he enquired about the

tall and fair person and was told by the

persons that he was Vishal Yadav r/o Raj

Nagar. Thereafter he tried to contact deceased

on his mobile No. 9811283641 but his mobile

was found switched off, as such he could not

contact him. At about 2 am Gaurav Gupta

went back. Bharat Diwakar waited for the 9 deceased till 2.30 am at the Diamond Palace

and thereafter he returned to the house of

deceased at Delhi in the taxi and went to sleep.

Till 5am when Nitish did not return home, his

mother Smt Neelam Katara was worried. Then

she asked Bharat Diwakar about the deceased

and he told her that Nitish had stayed back at

Ghaziabad at night. On 17.02.02 Bharat Diwakar

went to Ghaizabad and made enquiries from PS

Kavi Nagar about Nitish but did not get any

information. It is stated that thereafter Smt

Neelam Katara also went to PS Kavi Nagar

Ghaziabad and lodged the FIR regarding

missing of her son. This witness also stated to

the police that on that day Nitish was wearing

red coloured kurta, white churidaar pajama and

had wrapped a white shawl. After recording of

the statement of this witness the site ie 10 Diamond Palace was inspected by the SI Anil

Somania at the instance of Bharat Diwakar

and a siteplan Ex.PW 35/1 of Diamond Palace

was also prepared. IO also recorded the

statements of Sandeep Goyal, the owner of

Diamond Palace U/s 161 Cr PC of Jai Prakash

Pandey, the security guard at the Diamond

Palace on the night of the incident who stated

that his duty was at the main gate of Diamond

Palace on 16.02.02 as a marriage was being

celebrated there. At about 12/12.30 mid night

he saw 3/4 boys who came out of the hall and

sat in a long car and one of them was

wearing red coloured kurta, churidaar pajama

and white shawl. He also stated that those boys

shaked hands with some boys who were

standing outside and thereafter they went away

in the long car at a fast speed towards West 11 direction but this witness could not tell the

 number and colour of the vehicle in which

 those boys had gone and he explained that

 since it was a marriage function and there were

 several vehicles so he did not pay much

 attention to the colour and number of the

 vehicle. iv) On the same day the houses of both

 the accused Vishal Yadav and Vikas Yadav were

 raided but neither the accused persons nor

 Nitish could be traced out. Besides, they were

 searched at other places also by the police but

 met with no success. v) Thereafter again on 18.02.02 search

 was conducted for Nitish as well as both the

 accused persons and in the process the IO

 reached the official residence of Sh DP Yadav

 at 15 Balwant Rai Lane New Delhi (since he 12 was MP during the relevant period) where

Kamal Kishore, the security guard of Sh. DP

Yadav met him and was brought to PS Tilak

Marg where he was interrogated and memo

interrogation was prepared. Besides his

statement U/s 161 Cr PC was also recorded

to the effect that on intervening night of

16/17­02­02 at about 1/1.30 am accused Vikas

and driver Anil alongwith one another person

of fair complexion, clean shave wearing red

coloured long kurta, churidaar pajama and

white coloured shawl came there in a long car

with high back and they stayed there for half

an hour. Afterwards Vikas and the person in

red coloured kurta went away in the same

vehicle. Whereas the driver Anil went and

slept in his room. He also stated that the

vehicle was driven away by Vikas, whereas the 13 person in red kurta sat next to him in front. vi) During the course of investigation

 statement of Bharti Yadav U/s 161 Cr. PC

 was recorded which revealed that of Ms

 Bharti Yadav was a student of IMT Ghaziabad

 alongwith deceased Nitish Katara, Bharat

 Diwakar, Gaurav Gupta and Shivani Gaur

 during the year 1998­2000 and they were all

 very close friends. It also revealed that the

 friendship between Ms Bharti Yadav and the

 deceased converted into a love affair. Even

 after completion of their course in the year

 2000 from IMT they both remained in touch

 with each other, used to roam around together

 and got themselves photographed, exchanged

 gifts and Ms. Bharti Yadav had gifted Esprit

 wrist watch to the deceased in Dec 2001.

 They both wanted to marry each other. The 14 deceased had already spoken to his mother for

their marriage, whereas their affair was known

to the Mami and Bua of Ms Bharti Yadav and

she was told by them that they would speak

to Sh DP Yadav for her marriage with Nitish

only after the elections of Vikas. It is further

mentioned in her statement U/s 161 Cr.PC that

on 16/2/02 the marriage of Shivani was fixed

where she alongwith her family, Bharat

Diwakar, Nitish Katara, Gaurav Gupta and Yash

Tomar were invited to attend the marriage. A

day prior to the marriage , 'mahila sangeet' was

arranged at the residence of Shivani Gaur

which was attended by her and her friends

where they had danced together. On 16/2/02

the marriage of Shivani Gaur took place at

Diamond Palace, Kavi Nagar, Ghaziabad which

was attended by her alongwith her sister 15 Bhawna Yadav, her mother, her brother accused

Vikas Yadav, her bua's son accused Vishal Yadav

and Sukhdev Pehalwan resident of Dewaria,

working in their liquor office at Bulandshahar.

The marriage was also attended by Bharat

Diwakar, Nitish Katara, Yash Tomar and Gaurav

Gupta. She got clicked photographs with Bharat

Diwakar, Nitish Katara and Gaurav Gupta on

the stage and had also danced in the marriage

with Nitish Katara. At 1:30am she came to know

that Nitish was called away by the accused

persons and their co­accused Sukhdev, so she

became upset. She searched for them in the

Diamond Palace but could not trace them. It is

further mentioned in her statement that accused

persons had come there in Tata Safari. At about

2:15am she called from her mobile No.

9810038469 to the landline Nos installed at her 16 residence as she was suspecting that accused

 persons may not commit some untoward

 incident with Nitish Katara as they had not

 liked her dancing with Nitish Katara and her

 getting the photographs clicked with him. vii) It also revealed during investigation that

 on 16.02.02 the marriage of Shivani Gaur was

 attended by both the accused persons namely

 Vishal Yadav and Vikas Yadav alongwith their

 co accused Sukhdev Pehalwan r/o Dewaria,

 an employee of Sh DP Yadav in the office of

 liquor at Bulandshahar . Besides, the marriage

 was attended by Ms Bharti Yadav, her sister

 Bhawna Yadav and their mother Smt Umlesh

 Yadav. The marriage was videographed and

 photographed. The marriage function was

 attended by 600 to 700 persons. viii) It further revealed during investigation 17 that both the accused Vikas and Vishal Yadav

 and their co accused Sukhdev Yadav took

 deceased in a Tata Safari from Diamond Palace

 towards Hapur chungi and their vehicle was

 stopped by police officials namely Ct Satender

 Pal Singh and Ct. Inderjeet Singh near Diamond

 Palace for a routine checking. At that time

 accused Vikas Yadav was driving the said

 vehicle, Nitish was sitting besides him on front

 seat, whereas accused Vishal Yadav was sitting

 behind the deceased in the rear seat and co­

 accused Sukhdev was sitting behind accused

 Vikas Yadav on the rear seat. ix) During investigation it further revealed

 that on that day around 12.30 mid night after

 some distance near crossing of Hapur Chungi

 Nitish was spotted in the company of accused

 Vikas Yadav, Vishal Yadav and their co accused 18 Sukhdev Yadav travelling in Tata Safari bearing

 registration No. PB 07H 0085 when accused

 Vikas Yadav had an altercation with PW33 Ajay

 Katara whose scooter broke down on the road

 and he was asked to remove the scooter from

 the road immediately. As per the statement of

 Ajay Katara recorded U/s 161 Cr PC by the

 police on 18.3.2002 all the accused persons

 were known to him prior to the incident as

 accused Vikas Yadav is the son of Sh DP

 Yadav, the then Member Parliament, accused

 Vishal Yadav was the cousin brother of

 accused Vikas Yadav and accused Sukhdev

 Pehalwan was an employee of Sh DP Yadav. x) During investigation it further revealed

 that on 17.02.2002 deadbody of an unknown

 person was found lying naked in burnt

 condition at Shikarpur Road within the 19 jurisdiction of PS Kotwali and it was spotted by

 PW 23 Virender Singh who gave information in

 this regard to the PS Khurja which was

 recorded vide GD No. 12 Ex. PW 4/A. On this

 information PW4 Inspt CP Singh of PS Khurja

 reached the place where deadbody was lying.

 The photographs Ex.PW 4/2 and Ex.PW 4/3 of

 the deadbody were taken. Panchnama Ex.PW

 3/2A was prepared and lateron the siteplan

 Ex.PW 4/4 of the place was also prepared. It

 was found that left hand, fingers and palm of

 the deadbody were not burnt. xi) The deadbody was removed to the

 mortuary of the District Hospital Bulandshahar

 in sealed condition through PW 5 Ct Mudasar

 Ali and Ct Mahender Singh for postmortem.

 Efforts were made for the identification of the

 deadbody. xii) The postmortem was conducted on

 the deadbody of unknown person by Dr Anil

 Single at District Hospital Bulandshahar UP

 on 18.2.02 and the deadbody was kept in the

 mortuary at Bulandshahar for identification. As

 per the postmortem report the cause of death

 was head injury. The postmortem report is

 Ex.PW 3/3. xiii) On the basis of the aforesaid

 postmortem report case FIR No. 216/02 U/s

 302 /201 IPC was registered with PS Khurja

 Nagar on 19/02/02. On the same day after

 coming to know about the recovery of the

 deadbody of an unknown person by the police

 of PS Khurja Nagar SI Anil Somania reached

 there in the evening but could not meet Inspt

 CB Singh as he was not available at that time.

 On 21.2.02 the complainant alongwith her 21 younger son Nitin and other family members

 reached mortuary Bulandshahar on receipt of

 information from PS Kavi Nagar that a

 deadbody of an unknown person similar to the

 description of her son was recovered from

 Shikarpur Road in a burnt condition. From

 the hands and feet and the structure of the

 deadbody she identified the same to be of her

 son Nitish but since the other family members

 were not fully satisfied, as such to be very sure

 she asked for DNA test and finger prints

 examination. xiv) SI Anil Somania moved an application

 on the same day before CJM Bulandshahar for

 seeking possession of the deadbody and

 transferring the deadbody to AIIMS hospital

 for the purpose of finger print and DNA as

 there was no facility to preserve the deadbody. 22 The application was allowed by CJM

Bulandshahar UP and on the same day ie

21.2.02 the body was removed to AIIMS hospital,

New Delhi and was kept in freezer No. 8. On

22.2.02 in the presence of the IO finger prints

expert of Delhi Police namely Chet Ram

took finger prints of the left hand of the

deadbody in AIIMS hospital. On the same day

Chet Ram also obtained standard finger prints

of the deceased Nitish Katara from RTO Office

at Sarai Kale Khan New Delhi, from where a

driving licence was issued to the deceased

Nitish Katara. On the same day ie 22.2.02

blood samples of Sh Nishit Katara and the

complainant Neelam Katara ie parents of

Nitish Katara were taken for DNA test, in

compliance of the order of CJM Bulandshahar

( UP). On the same day sample tissues from 23 the deadbody for the purpose of DNA test

 were taken and all the samples were sent to

 CFSL Calcutta for analysis on 25.2.02 through

 SI RC Makholia. xv) As per the report of the finger prints

 experts dtd 25.2.02, PW 2 SI Chet Ram

 ( Finger Print Expert) with Finger Print Bureau

 recorded the left hand finger impressions of

 the said Un­identified deadbody on 22.02.02. As per the result of comparison

recorded left index finger impressions of the

said un­identified deadbody were compared

with the specimen left index finger impression of

Sh Nitish Katara s/o Sh Nisheeth M Katara

r/o 7 Chemsford Road New Delhi ­110055

( Licence No. P06022000120296) available with

Deptt of Transport Govt. of NCT, Delhi and

were found identical. On the basis of the finger prints expert

report Section 302 / 201 / 34 IPC were added to

the FIR on 25.2.02, as the identity of the body

was established beyond any reasonable doubts,

On 26.2.02 an information was sent to CJM

Ghaziabad (UP) about the addition of the offences

U/s. 302/201/34 IPC in FIR bearing No. 192/02

of PS Kavi Nagar. xvi) On 22.2.02 letter Ex PW 8/A was sent

by Sh AK Raghav SP City Ghaziabad to the

director of AIIMS requesting for DNA finger

printing of suspected deadbody of deceased

Nitish Katara in terms of the order of the CJM

Bulandshahar dtd. 21.2.02 Ex. PW 8/C. This letter

was marked to PW 8 TD Dogra vide endorsement

Ex. PW 8/B by the director AIIMS. Thereafter

under the supervision of PW 8 DR. TD Dogra

of AIIMS hospital blood sample of Sh NM Katara 25 and Smt Neelam Katara were collected by PW 10

Dr Sanjeev Lalwani . From the unknown deadbody suspected

to be of Nitish Katara son of Sh NM Katara the

following samples were collected from the

deadbody:­

a Entire right femur bone ( Weight

Aprox. 900gm). b Piece of Right Calf muscle (Weight­

80gm Approx.)

c Piece of Right Lung (Weight ­20gm

Approx.)

d Pieces of kidney of both sides (Weight ­

15gm each Approx,)

e Piece of Heart muscle ( Weight ­20gm

Approx.)

f Piece of liver tissue ( Weight ­25gm

Approx.) 26 g Pieces of spleen ( Weight ­25gm

Approx.)

h Blood sample of gauze piece from

right side of the heart. On 25.2.02 the blood samples of Sh

NM Katara and Smt Neelam Katara alongwith

the sample collected from the unidentified

deadbody were sent to the office of Central

Forensic Science Laboratory, Bureau of Police

Research & Development, Ministry of Government

Home Affair, Government of India, Calcutta in

one sealed thermocol box, three sealed paper

packets and one sealed cloth packet which were

sealed with the corresponding seal impression

through SI RC Makholia. The three sealed

paper packets were marked A,B and C in the

Laboratory and contained Exhibit A, Exhibit B

and Exhibit C respectively. The sealed thermocol 27 box contained Exhibit E, Exhibit F, Exhibit G,

Exhibit H, Exhibit I and Exhibit J . The

description of the exhibits is as follows:­

Exhibit A: Blood Stain I 

A white gauze piece having large reddish

brown stains, said to be blood sample of Mr

NM Katara ( Blood donor card­ annexure I). 

Exhibit B: Blood Stain II

A white gauze piece having large reddish

brown stains, said to be blood sample of Mrs

Neelam Katara ( Blood donor card­ annexure II).

Exhibit C: Blood Stain III

A white gauze piece having large reddish

brown stains, said to be blood sample of body

(Cl. For. Med. No. 14/2002)

Exhibit D: Long Bone 

A human femur bone of right side, said to be of

body. (Cl. For. Med. No. 14/2002). 28 Exhibit E: Tissue Sample l

A brown coloured tissue, said to be piece of

muscle of body( Cl. For, Med. No. 14/2002)

Exhibit F: Tissue Sample Il

A red coloured tissue, said to be piece of lung

of body( Cl. For, Med. No. 14/2002)

Exhibit G: Tissue Sample Iil

A brown coloured tissue, said to be piece of

kidney of body( Cl. For, Med. No. 14/2002)

Exhibit H: Tissue Sample lV

A reddish brown coloured tissue, said to be

piece of heart of body( Cl. For, Med. No.

14/2002)

Exhibit I: Tissue Sample V

A brown coloured tissue, said to be piece of

liver

of body( Cl. For, Med. No. 14/2002)

Exhibit J: Tissue Sample Vl 29 A red coloured tissue, said to be piece of

spleen of body( Cl. For, Med. No. 14/2002)

Exhibit C:Blood Stain III, Exhibit F: Tissue

Sample II and Exhibit J: Tissue Sample VI

were selected for DNA Profiling Exhibit D: Long

Bone, Exhibit E: Tisue Sample I, Exhibit G: From the above observations, it is

concluded that: 17.2.02 of PS Kavi Nagar, Ghaziabad, so the raids

were conducted by the police in their search

regularly, at their known and given addresses at

different places but they were not traceable and

they were absconding from the night of incident

itself. On 20.2.02 CJM Ghaziabad (UP) on the

report of the police issued process U/s. 82 Cr. PC

against accused Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav .

xviii) On 23.2.02 it was reported in the TV

 and the media that both the accused Vikas 35 Yadav and Vishal Yadav, were arrested by

 police of PS Dabra (MP) under Arms Act , on

 that day at about 4.15 am. Both the accused

 persons disclosed before Dabra police that

 they were involved in the abduction of Nitish

 Katara. Initially they tried to conceal their

 identity by giving false names to Dabra police.

 Separate cases were registered at PS Dabra

 (MP) against both the accused persons under Arms Act . xix) After coming to know about the arrest

 of the accused persons at Dabra ( MP), SI Anil

 Somania, IO of this case alongwith other

 members of police party reached Dabra (MP) at

 11 pm on 23.2.02 for taking the custody of the

 accused persons. On 24.2.02 Court at Dabra

 granted two days transit remand of the accused

 persons for producing the accused persons 36 before the Court at Ghaziabad. At about

 3.30pm custody of both the accused persons was

 taken by SI Anil Somania on that day after

 their medical examination. xx) On 25.02.02 police party alongwith

 the accused persons reached at Ghaziabad at

 about 5 am and produced both the accused

 persons before CJM Ghaziabad (UP). Accused

 persons were remanded to judicial custody on

 that day. On the same day ie 25.02.02 SI

 Anil Somania moved an application before

 CJM Ghaziabad (UP) for permission to record

 the statement of the accused persons in the jail

 as in State of UP, accused cannot be

 interrogated / examined, without the

 permission of the Court. xxi) On 25.02.2002 SI Anil Somania

 recorded the statement of both the accused 37 persons separately in jail. Both the accused

persons disclosed that love affair was going

on between Ms. Bharti Yadav and the deceased

for a long time and with the passage of time

it came to the knowledge of the society and

they were feeling humiliation and this was not

acceptable to them. As such when they saw

Nitish Katara in the marriage they both i e

accused Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav

thought that it was the best opportunity which

they may not get in future. Then they had

dinner immediately after the arrival of the

barat. Nitish Katara was having food alongwith

his friends and then Vishal Yadav was sent

by the accused Vikas Yadav to bring Nitish

Katara outside. After he was brought outside

by accused Vishal then they made him sit on

the front seat of their Safari car at about 12 38 am. Accused Vikas drove the car, whereas

accused Vishal and co­ accused Sukhdev

Pehalwan sat on the back seat of the car and

while they were going to Khurja, in between

Bulandshahar and Khurja co accused Sukhdev

Pehalwan and accused Vishal Yadav pressed

down Nitish Katara, whereas accused Vikas

Yadav immediately stopped the car on the side

of the road and gave a hard blow of a small

hammer on the head of Nitish Katara due to

which he became unconscious and after few

minutes he died. It is further disclosed that

thereafter they took his deadbody in the car

to Khurja Phasu Hill and about one km away

from Shikarpur Teeraha they put his deadbody

along side of the road and accused Vishal

removed mobile from the pocket of the

deceased and the wrist watch from his hand 39 and concealed th same in the bushes standing

along side the road, whereas Vikas Yadav took

the hammer from the car and concealed the

same inside the bushes standing nearby.

Accused Vikas Yadav took out diesel from the

car through pipe and poured the same on

the deadbody of Nitish Katara and burned the

same. Accused Vikas Yadav disclosed that he

could get the hammer recovered from the place

where it was concealed. Similarly accused

Vishal disclosed that he could recover the wrist

watch and the mobile phone from the place

where these were concealed and they could

also point out where the deceased was

murdered and his body was burnt lateron by

them. They could also get recovered Safari

Car which was hidden by them in Alwar

Rajasthan. xxii) On 25.02.02 itself accused Vikas Yadav

 gave an interview to the media that on 16/17­

 02­02 he had a minor quarrel with them

 (Unse) outside Diamond Palace. The word

 'Unse' is used in context of Nitish Katara .

xxiii) On 26.02.02 SI Anil Somania moved

 an application before CJM Ghaziabad ( UP) for

 the police custody of both the accused persons

 and on 27.2.02 twenty four hours police custody

 remand was granted by CJM Ghaziabad

 effective from 28.2.02 at 9 am till 1.3.02 (9

 am). The accused persons were also allowed by

 the Court to keep one lawyer with them during

 police custody remand on their separate

 applications. xxiv) On 28.2.02 both the accused persons

 were taken in police custody by SI Anil

 Somania from the jail after their medical 41 examination, as directed by the Court.

Thereafter both the accused persons led the

police party near Railway crossing of

Aughwarpur and pointed the place where

Nitish Katara was murdered by them. SI Anil

Somania prepared Ex.PW35/23 the siteplan of

the place. Then the accused persons led the

police party to T point of Phasu and Shikarpur

road and pointed out blackish spot on the

ground and told that the deceased was burnt

there. Accused Vikas Yadav got recovered a

hammer Ex.Pl from the nearby bushes and

accused Vishal Yadav got recovered a wrist

watch Ex.PW7/Article A2 from the bushes/fields.

SI Anil Somania prepared site plan Ex. PW35/24

of each spot and sealed the hammer and wrist

watch separately at the spot. The recovery of

hammer and wrist watch was effected in the 42 presence of Sh Satpal Yadav, advocate for the

 accused persons and public witnesses Raghu

 and Aslam. The sealed parcels of hammer and

 wrist watch were seized vide a recovery memo

 Ex.PW34/1 prepared by the IO SI Anil

 Somania. A copy of the recovery memo was

 received by Sh Satpal Singh Yadav, advocate at

 the spot. Both the accused persons also

 received a copy of the recovery memo

 separately under their signatures on the spot. 

xxv) Thereafter on the same day ie on

 28.2.02 both the accused persons led the police

 party to House No 2 Maharaja building Alwar

 (Rajashtan) for the recovery of Tata Safari

 vehicle and cell phone of the deceased Nitish

 Katara but no vehicle was recovered from there.

 From there both the accused led the police

 party to Sariska Palace, Alwar for the recovery 43 of Tata Safari, but vehicle was not recovered

from there too. The accused persons further led

the police party to a house at Shanti Kunj in

Alwar for the recovery of Tata Safari but again

vehicle was not recovered from there. SI/ IO

Anil Somania prepared search memos of all

those places Ex.PW35/25, PW35/46 and PW35/47,

which were searched for the recovery of Tata

Safari and cell phone of the deceased in

pursuance to the disclosure statements of the

accused persons. The police party alongwith

the accused persons and their lawyer returned

from Alwar (Rajasthan) after midnight of

28/02/02 / 01/03/02 and after the medical

examination of the accused persons as directed

by the Court, they were put in lock­up of PS

Kavi Nagar. The recovered hammer and wrist

watch were deposited by IO in malkhana of 44 the PS Kavi Nagar in sealed condition.

xxvi) On 01/03/02 both the accused persons

 were produced in the Court after their medical

 examination and application was moved by the

 IO Anil Somania for grant of ten days police

 custody remand for the recovery of Tara Safari

 and cell phone of the deceased, however the

 application was dismissed by the CJM

 Ghaziabad vide order dtd. 2.3.02. The order of

 the CJM was challenged by the police in the

 Court of District & Sessions Judge Ghaziabad

 through a revision petition. The Ld. Session

 Judge Ghaziabad partly allowed the petition

 and directed the CJM Ghaziabad to hear the

 police remand application of the IO again

 keeping in view that period of 24 hours of

 police custody was not sufficient to effect the

 recovery of Tata Safari and cell phone of the 45 deceased in pursuance to the disclosure

 statements of the accused persons. The said

 order was passed by Ld. Session Judge on

 6.3.02. xxvii) On 06.03.02 both the accused

 persons were taken to Dabra (UP) by SI JK

 Gangwar in compliance of the order passed

 by the Magistrate at Dabra. xxviii) On 08.03.02 CJM Ghaziabad passed

 order for the police custody remand of the

 accused persons for 48 hours after hearing the

 investigating agency, as per the order of the

 Session Judge Ghaziabad dtd. 06/03/2002 the

 police custody remand was to be effective from

 9.3.02 at 2pm onwards. IO SI Anil Somania

 rushed to Dabra (MO) on 8.3.02 itself and

 after reaching there moved an application

 before the Magistrate at Dabra for the custody 46 of the accused persons in compliance of the

 order of CJM Ghaziabad (UP) dtd. 08.03.2002.

xxix) As per the prosecution the lawyers of

 the accused persons delayed the hearing of the

 application on the ground that they have

 challenged the order of CJM Ghaziabad (UP) in

 Allahabad High Court and there was possibility

 of a stay order from the Hon'ble High Court.

 Even affidavits were filled by the lawyers of

 the accused persons but no stay order was

 received/ passed by the High Court so at 6.40

 pm on 9.3.02 Magistrate at Dabra allowed the

 application of SI Anil Somania for handing

 over the custody of he accused persons to him.

 However jail authority at Dabra (MP) refused

 to hand over the custody of the accused

 persons to the IO on the ground that the jail

 had already been closed. xxx) On 10.3.02 at about 9.30am custody of

 the accused persons was given to the IO SI Anil

 Somania by the jail authorities after their

 medical examination. From Dabra police party

 alongwith the accused persons left for

 Chandigarh for the recovery of Tata Safari but

 when they reached at Agra (UP), accused

 persons disclosed that Tata Safari and cell

 phone can be recovered from Shamshan Ghat,

 near taxi stand at Panipat (Haryana). Accused

 persons led the police party to Shamshan Ghat

 near taxi stand Panipat but nothing was

 recovered from there in pursuance to their

 disclosure statements. House search memo

 Ex.PW35/48 was prepared by PW35 in this

 regard. Since it was late at night so police

 party alongwith the accused persons stayed at

 Panipat (Haryana) on 10.3.02. At Panipat 48 (Haryana) IO SI Anil Somania again

 interrogated the accused persons and then they

 disclosed to the IO that the Tata Safari

 bearing No. PB 07H 0085 was at Karnal

 (Haryana). xxxi) On 11.3.02 both the accused persons led

 the police party to a factory namely AB

 Coltex at Karnal (Haryana) and from inside

 the said factory got recovered Tata Safari

 bearing No. PB 07H 0085 in the presence

 of PW 27 Sultan Singh chowkidar of the

 factory. IO prepared the recovery memo Ex.

 PW 27/1 of the Tata Safari but the accused

 persons refused to sign the same, however the

 same was signed by chowkidar of the factory

 namely Sultan Singh. xxxii) On the same day police party

 alongwith the accused persons and the 49 recovered Tata Safari came back to Ghaziabad

 and after medical examination accused persons

 were produced in the Court of CJM Ghaziabad

 and accused were remanded to judicial custody.

 IO deposited the Tata Safari No. PB07H 0085

 in the malkhana of PS Kavi Nagar. xxxiii) During investigation it was revealed

 that Tata Safari No PB 07H 0085 was

 registered in the name of Oswal Sugar Limited

 Company GT Road Mukerian Distt. Hoshiarpur (Punjab) in which Sh DP Yadav,

 father of the accused Vikas Yadav was one of

 the directors. It was also found during

 investigation that part of the management of

 AB Coltex Company at Karnal is same as in

 Oswal Sugar Ltd Mukeria Hoshiarpur (Punjab).

xxxiv) PW Ajay Katara who had allegedly

 last seen the deceased in the company of both 50 the accused and their co accused Sukhdev

 Pehalwan in the Tata Safari bearing No PB07H

 0085 at Hapur Chungi on the intervening night

 of 16/17­02­02 when his scooter was broke

 down, his statement was recorded by the IO

 on 18/03/02. He gave the explanation for delay

 in informing the police by saying that earlier

 also he had approached the PS but SO was

 not available. xxxv) Co­accused Sukhdev Pehalwan was

 absconding since the date of incident and was

 not traceable so on 13.03.02. IO moved an

 application before the Court for initiating

 proceedings U/s. 82/83 Cr PC against him. On

 30.3.02 accused Sukhdev Pehalwan was declared

 PO and prize of Rs. 2500/­ was kept for his

 arrest. Accused Sukhdev Pehalwan, who was

 declared as PO during trial was finally arrested 51 on 23.02.2005 from Deweria (UP) and now is

 facing separate trial in this court itself.

xxxvi) The body of Nitish Katara was

 cremated on 12.03.2002. xxxvii) On 2.4.2002 complainant identified

 the recovered wrist watch as of her son Nitish

 Katara ( now deceased) in a judicial TIP

 before a Special Executive Magistrate at

 Ghaziabad. xxxviii) During investigation it was found

 that the deceased Nitish Katara was using

 mobile phone No. 9811283641 and Ms Bharti

 Yadav was using mobile phone No. 9810038469

 which was registered in the name of her elder

 sister Bhawna Yadav at the address of R­

 4/32Raj Nagar belonging to Sh DP Yadav.

 Accused Vikas Yadav was using Cell phone

 No 9811105905 which was registered in the 52 name of Kunal Yadav, younger brother of the

accused. The said mobile phone was registered

with address B 14 Gulmohar Park New Delhi

where Sh DP Yadav was also having office of

his company Oswal Sugar Ltd. Another cell

phone No. 9811462100 was being used by Mr DP

Yadav which was registered in the name of Mr

Vijay at the address of B 14 Gulmohar Park

New Delhi. Complainant Neelam Katara was

using cell phone No 9810206299 at that time

and her younger son Nitin Katara was using

cell No. 9811297136. He was also using another

cell phone No. 9822288216 of Pune, where he

was studying/working at that time. Witness

Bharat Diwakar was using cell phone No.

9810154964 and Gaurav Gupta had used phone

of Yash Tomar bearing No. 9811220691 on the

intervening night of 16/17­02­02. IO collected 53 the call records of the aforesaid phones for the

 relevant period from the Airtel and Hutch

 Company. IO also collected cell ID charts of

 both the companies of Delhi and NCR areas.

xxxix) It was found during investigation

 that landline No 4713790, 4751083 and 4714101

 were installed at the residence of Sh DP Yadav

 at Ghaziabad. Sh. Bharat Singh maternal uncle

 of the accused Vikas Yadav was having landline

 No. 4721001 at his residence at Ghaziabad.

 Complainant was having landline Nos. 3747555

 and 3366629 installed at house at 7 Chemsford

 Road, New Delhi. Deceased Nitish Katara had

 received several calls on his cell phone from

 the landline Nos. of Sh. DP Yadav and Sh.

 Bharat Singh before the date of incident. There

 were several calls made between Ms Bharti

 Yadav, Nitish Katara, Bharat Diwakar, Gaurav 54 Gupta, complainant Neelam Katara, Nitin Katara

 etc before and after the incident. 

xl) After the incident Ms Bharti Yadav sent

 e­mails to Nitin Katara about the incident and

 conduct of the accused persons. xli) During the course of investigation it

 revealed that Ms Bharti Yadav had opened an

 account No. 09065103027025 in BNP Paribas

 Bank, Connaught Place New Delhi which was in

 a building adjacent to the office of Nitish

 Katara. Ms Bharti Yadav while opening the

 account had given the address of Nitish Katara

 in account opening form in the bank. The

 initial amount of Rs 10,000/­ for opening the

 account was also paid through cheque No.

 239166 of HDFC Bank from the account of

 Nitish Katara bearing No. 003111144111. After

 the death of Nitish Katara Ms Bharti Yadav 55 changed her address in BNP Paribas bank from

 7 Chemsford Road New Delhi to B­14 Gulmohar

 Park, New Delhi where company namely Oswal

 Sugar Ltd. of his father is based. The said

 company also issued a certificate in favour of

 Ms Bharti Yadav at the time of change of

 address to the effect that B 14 Gulmohar Park

 New Delhi was her office cum residential

 address. xlii) During investigation it also revealed that

 on 24.8.2000 Ms. Bharti Yadav, her sister

 Bhawana Yadav, her fianceD eepak Yadav,

 Nitish Katara and Rocky Yadav visited Bombay

 to celebrate the birthday of Bhawana Yadav via

 a Jet Airways Flight No. 9W332. During the

 course of investigation IO SI Anil Somania

 recorded the statements of the witnesses and

 collected the relevant records. xliii) On 16.4.2002 recovered hammer Ex. P1

 was sent to FSL Malviya Nagar Delhi for

 examination through Ct Dayanand. On

 17/5/2002 director FSL sent his report to

 CJM Ghaziabad alongwith the hammer. As per

 the report human blood was detected on the

 hammer by the forensic expert. xliv) On 3.5.2002 IO SI Anil Somania filed

 charge­sheet against accused persons namely

 Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav in CJM

 Ghaziabad (UP). Accused Sukhdev Pehalwan

 was shown as PO as he was absconding since

 the date of the incident. xlv) On 06/05/2002 complainant Smt

 Neelam Katara filed a transfer petition in the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court on the ground that

 there was no chance of fair and impartial trial

 at Ghaziabad because of the influence of the 57 accused persons and Sh DP Yadav who was

 a member of Parliament at that time. On

 23/08/02 Supreme Court transferred the case

 from the Court of Ghaziabad to Delhi. 

xlvi) The chargesheet also finds mention that

 accused Vikas Yadav was involved in three

 criminal cases the details of which are given as

 below: xlviii) The accused Vishal Yadav was found

involved in the following case : PW42 Bhawana Yadav
 PW 43 SP Singh 5. Formal witnesses : Co­ordinator IMT Ghaziabad who produced the

 student record of PWs Bharat Diwakar, Gaurav

 Gupta, Shivani Gaur and Nitish Katara (now

 deceased) as Ex.PW 13/1 to 5 respectively to

 prove that they all were students of IMT

 Ghaziabad during the year l998­2000. iii) PW 14 Sh. Sandeep Goyal, the owner

 of Diamond Palace Banquet Hall at Kavi

 Nagar, where the marriage of PW11 Shivani

 Gaur took place and from where the deceased

 was allegedly abducted. iv) PW 16 Sh. Ved Pal Yadav the owner of

 Aravali Tourist Taxi Services who had provided

 taxi No. DL lY 4998 on 16/2/02 at 7.15 pm to

 Nitish Katara on his requisition. v) PW 24 Sh. Shadi Ram, driver with

 Aravali Tourist Taxi Services, who had taken

 Nitish Katara and Bharat Diwakar to Diamond

 Palace on 16.02.02 in the taxi. vi) CW2 Murari Lal Aggarwal, Executive

 Clerk from the Court of ACJM Dabra had

 produced the record pertaining to remand

 papers and judicial proceedings in case FIR No.

 99/02 under Arms Act against accused Vikas

 Yadav and case FIR No. 100/02 under Arms

 Act against accused Vishal Yadav as Ex.

 CW 2/l to Ex.CW 2/4 respectively. vii) PW 43 Sh. SP Singh Commercial

 Officer BSNL Ghaziabad who proved the 62 relevant records of telephone Nos. 4714101,

 4751083, 4713790 and 4721001. 6. Witnesses relating to the
marriage of Shivani Gaur at Diamond
Palace on the intervening night of
16/2/02 ­ 17/2/02 and regarding the
presence of both the accused namely
Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav and
deceased Nitish Katara are :­ i) PW 11 Shivani Gaur. ii) PW 19 Jai Prakash Pandey, Security

 Guard at Diamond Palace. photography/ videography in the
marriage ceremony of Shivani Gaur are:­ i) PW 6 Archana Sharma. ii) PW 15 Vijay Kumar 8. Witnesses who saw Nitish Katara in
the company of accused persons outside
Diamond Palace : 9. Witness who last saw Nitish Katara
alive in the company of deceased persons: i) PW 33 Ajay Kumar 10. Recovery of deadbody & Inquest
Proceedings : accompanied Inspt. CP Singh for the recovery

 of the deadbody. 11. Post Mortem : 12. Witnesses relating to Finger
Prints of the unidentified deadbody: iii) PW 17 SI Ramesh Chand Makholia

 who collected the samples for DNA from

 AIIMS hospital on 25.2.02 and on the same

 day he took the same to CFSL Calcutta and

 deposited there. He also collected the remnants

 of the samples and CFSL report from CFSL

 Calcutta on 06.03.2002. 14. Witnesses to oral identification
of deadbody are :­ i) PW 30 Mrs, Neelam Katara ii) PW 34 SI JK Gangwar iii) PW 35 SI Anil Somania iv) PW 39 Nitin Katara 15. Witnesses to the Arrest of the
accused persons: Dabra (He is wrongly mentioned as PW 36 as

 prior to him PW Revati Laul was examined as 67 PW 36 , hence this witness be read as PW

 36A.) 16. Disclosure statement of accused
persons : murder and place where deadbody was
burnt : 18. Recovery of hammer Ex.Pl at the
instance of accused Vikas Yadav : 19. Recovery of wrist watch Ex/PW
7/Article A2 of the deceased at the
instance of accused Vishal Yadav : 20. Identification proceedings of the
wrist watch ExPW7/ Article A2 : 27. Phone call record : 28. Statement of both the accused persons 72 was recorded U/s 313 Cr PC . i) Accused Vikas Yadav in his statement

 U/s 313 Cr. PC admitted that PW 38 Bharti

 Yadav is his sister and was student of IMT

 Ghaziabad from Sept 1998 to Dec 2000. He

 also admitted that he knew PW 11 Shivani

 Gaur, who studied with Bharti Yadav in Gargi

 College. However, he denied it for want of

 knowledge that both Bharti Yadav and Nitish

 Katara ( deceased) wanted to marry each other.

 He further denied that he, his father Sh DP

 Yadav and co­accused Vishal Yadav were

 against the marriage of the two on the ground

 that deceased was from the different

 community and his family was of a government

 servant which they considered to be a poor

 class. He stated that his whole family is

 educated and even his marriage was fixed in 73 service class. He claimed that he never knew

 deceased nor their plans to marry so there was

 no reason for being averse to their marriage.

 He denied it for want of knowledge that Ms

 Bharti Yadav presented a wrist watch Esprit

 Ex.PW7/Article A2 to Nitish in Dec. 2001. ii) In answer to question No. 18 that on

 16.2.02 Nitish Katara made a call from his

 mobile No. 9811283641 to Ms Bharti Yadav on

 her mobile No. 9810038469 at 3.42 pm he

 stated that he was not aware of. Similarly, in

 answer to question No. 19 that Bharat Diwakar

 received a call on his mobile No. 9810154964

 from Bharti Yadav from her mobile No.

 9810038469 at 5.20 pm on 16.2.02, he stated

 that he was not aware of but he again

 stated that as per his knowledge Bharti never

 had a mobile. However, he did not deny the 74 existence of this mobile phone No.

 9810038469. iii) Accused Vikas Yadav admitted that he

 attended the marriage of Shivani Gaur on

 16.2.02 at Diamond Palace alongwith his co

 accused Vishal, his sisters Bharti and Bhawna

 and his mother, however he denied that their

 co accused Sukhdev Yadav had also

 accompanied them to Diamond Palace. He

 denied it for want of knowledge if Nitish

 Katara had also reached the marriage venue

 alongwith Bharat Diwakar in the taxi to attend

 the marriage. He stated that he did not know

 Nitish Katara and that when he went to attend

 the marriage function that night he never met

 any person wearing red kurta ,white pajama

 and white shawl. He was shown the

 photographs Ex. PW 6/2 and Ex.PW 6/3 in 75 which PW11 Shivani Gaur was appearing

alongwith other persons but he stated that

except Shivani Gaur he cannot identify others.

He was also shown the photographs Ex.PW

11/1 to PW11/4 in which both Bharti Yadav and

Nitish Katara are appearing but he stated that

he can only identify Bharti appearing in these

photographs and that he did not know the

person appearing in these photographs

alongwith Bharti. He was also shown the

photograph Ex.PW 11/5 of Nitish Katara but

he claimed that he did not know the person

appearing in the photograph and he had never

met him. He also denied it for want of

knowledge that deceased Nitish Katara on that

day was wearing a wrist watch Esprit Ex.PW7/

Article A2 and was also possessing a mobile

phone Samsung having No. 981l283641 . He 76 also denied that during marriage function

 Bharat Diwakar, Nitish Katara ( deceased) and

 Guarav Gupta were taking dinner when his co

 accused Vishal took Nitish out of the Diamond

 Palace at about 11.15/ 11.30 pm while talking

 to him and thereafter a quarrel had taken

 place between him and Nitish Katara outside

 Diamond Palace and thereafter he was taken

 away in Tata Safari bearing No. PB 07H

 0085 towards Hapur Chungi. iv) It is claimed that they had not gone to

 attend the marriage at Diamond Palace in Tata

 Safari nor Nitish Katara and Sukhdev Yadav

 were with them nor they had gone towards

 Hapur. v) He further stated that they had to go

 to party of Amit Gandhi at Rajnagar and had

 taken the route via Kavi Nagar to Raj Nagar. 77 He also denied that they were travelling in Tata

Safari bearing No. PB 07H 0085 alongwith the

deceased when their vehicle was stopped by

the police officials Ct Satender Pal Singh and

Ct Inderjeet Singh posted at Chetak 13, a patrol

car near Diamond Palace for checking at about

12.15 / 12.30 mid night or while traveling in

the same vehicle alongwith the persons, referred

above, an altercation took place between the

accused persons and PW 33 Ajay Kumar / Ajay

Katara near the crossing of Hapur Chungi when

his scooter broke down and he was asked by

accused Vikas Yadav in an uncivilised manner

to remove his scooter from the road and in the

process PW33 Ajay Kumar noted down the

number of the vehicle of the accused. He

denied the evidence that since he and his

father Sh DP Yadav and his co accused Vishal 78 Yadav were against the relationship between

 Bharti Yadav and Nitish Katara, he was

 abducted from Diamond Palace by him

 alongwith his co accused Vishal Yadav and

 Sukhdev Yadav and was thereafter murdered

 and his body was burnt so as to avoid his

 identification. vi) It is admitted by accused Vikas Yadav

 that he alongwith his co accused Vishal Yadav

 were apprehended at the railway station at

 Dabra but he denied that they were checked

 and it is claimed that they were straightaway

 apprehended after being identified and were

 falsely arrested. vii) He also admitted that he was holding

 a railway ticket from Jhansi to Delhi at the

 time when apprehended at Dabra Railway

 Station. He also admitted that he alongwith his 79 co accused Vishal Yadav were arrested under Arms Act at Dabra. viii) It is claimed that while he was brought

 to Ghaziabad alongwith his co accused Vishal

 Yadav from Dabra, during transit he was

 interrogated and forced to sign blank papers

 at Agra Police line. ix) He denied the recovery of hammer

 Ex.P1, the weapon of offence at his instance. He

 also denied to have pointed out the place of

 murder or the place where the deadbody was

 burnt. x) Recovery of Tata Safari Vehicle bearing

 No. PB 07H 0085 from Karnal at their

 instance has also been denied. xi) Regarding his interview in connection

 with the present case to the media as contained

 in cassette Ex. PW 36/l he stated that he has 80 seen the cassette played in the Court. He was

tortured badly over there before he was

interviewed. The inspector in the lockup had

stubbed the cigarette buds. He has not made

any incriminating statement to the media. The

cassette played in the court is tampered as it is

edited and he wants that that original cassette

containing the complete recording is obtained

from the concerned person and played in the

court. If the whole cassette is seen in original

the things would be amply clear. He was never

interviewed by Rewati Lau at all and it is a

matter of record that due to non availability of

the cassette at that time the witness could not

be cross examined. It does not form part of any

seizure memo or of the list of documents to

be relied upon by the prosecution. It is

claimed that he has been falsely implicated. It is 81 also alleged the police had introduced certain

interested witnesses who had deposed falsely.

He claimed that like him his co accused Vishal

Yadav also went to attend the marriage of

Shivani Gaur with him in his Mercedes and

greeted the couple but had not taken any food

as they were to attend another function of a

friend. They remained there for a short while

about 15 minutes. While they were leaving their

sister Bhawna met them at the main gate. She

asked them as to how they were leaving early.

He told her that he had to reach Karnal to

attend another function and also reach his

constituency via Mukeria. Thereafter they went

to attend party of Amit Gandhi at his house in

Rajnagar and after attending the party he left

for Karnal and Vishal left for his home. Since

the next day in the morning there was a havan 82 and in the afternoon there was a ring ceremony

at Karnal after which he left for Mukeria and

after finishing his work in his factory, he left

for Bisoli on 18/2/02 in the evening and

reached his constituency early in the morning

on 19/2/02. There, at Bisoli he came to know

that he was being framed in some false case .

He was in Bisoli for arranging his counting

agents as counting was to be held after about

four to five days. After that he left for

Allahabad and reached there on 20/2/02

morning and contacted Arvind Mishra, adv . The

next day in the morning he was joined by

Vishal. Then they met Sr. advocates Mr. AD Giri

and Mr. Jai Singh. They discussed the facts with

them and then they decided to surrender

before the concerned court at Ghaziabad . He

had also informed his advocate Rajender 83 Chaudhary at Ghaziabad about their will to

surrender. From Allahabad they started for

Delhi by changing trains i.e Allahabad to

Kanpur, Kanpur to Jhansi and Jhansi to Delhi.

On the way they got down at Dabra Station for

some refreshments but were apprehended and

confronted unnecessarily by the Dabra police on

being recognized, as their photographs were

flashed everywhere by print media and

electronic media. He claimed to have left

Allahabad on 22.2.02 for Kanpur. Thereafter

on 23.2.02 in early hours they reached Kanpur

and waited in the waiting room and on the

same day they took train to Jhansi and from

Jhansi they took train to Delhi on 23.2.02 to

reach Delhi on 24.2.02. He further claimed

that this case was highlighted and media hype

was such that it gives a reasonable inference 84 that whole case against him is politically

 motivated and have been victimized by those at

 the helm of affairs. It is claimed that he is a

 victim of the political rivalry and was

 falsely implicated. xii) Regarding Tata Safari bearing No. PB

 07H 0085, it is stated that this vehicle was

 extensively used during the elections upto

 14/02/02 and was sent for repairs at the

 authorised dealer on 15/2/02 in the late

 evening itself. Thus, there is no question of his

 getting Tata Safari to the wedding venue on

 16/2/02 and that infact he was using his

 Mercedes. xiii) Similar is the statement of accused

 Vishal Yadav, who too denied the entire

 incriminating evidence appearing on record

 against him, though he admitted that Ms Bharti 85 Yadav is his cousin sister and was student of

IMT Ghaziabad during the year 1999­2000.

He claimed that he was not aware of if

Shivani Gaur, Bharat Diwakar, Gaurav Gupta

and Nitish Katara ( deceased) were also

students of IMT Ghaziabad. He also claimed

that he was not aware if his cousin sister Bharti

Yadav was in love with deceased Nitish Katara

and they used to roam around together at

different places and got themselves

photographed vide Ex.PW 1/1 to 4 showing

their intimacy or used to exchange gifts or

write love letters and sent greeting cards to

each other on different occasion. He also

denied that Bharti Yadav used to call Nitish

Katara ( deceased) as Chimpu, Pudda'' out of

love and affection and Nitish Katara used to

call her as Ghugu and Chuha. He also denied 86 for want of knowledge that both Nitish Katara

 and Bharti Yadav wanted to marry. He denied

 and explained that he was not aware of their

 intention of getting married so there was no

 question of his being against them. It is stated

 that it was no reason to object to their

 marriage, so far he was concerned, for the

 reason that Nitish Katara belonged to different

 community and to a government servant family.

 He denied for want of knowledge if wrist

 watch Ex/PW 7/ Article A 2 was presented by

 Bharti Yadav to Nitish Katara in Dec. 2001. xiv) He admitted that he alongwith accused

 Vikas Yadav had attended the marriage of

 Shivani on 16/02/02 at Diamond Palace, Kavi

 Nagar, Ghaziabad, however he denied that

 their co accused Sukhdev Pehalwan was also

 with them. He also admitted that his cousin 87 sisters Bharti Yadav and Bhawna Yadav and

their mother had also attended the marriage

but he could not say if Nitish Katara

(deceased), Bharat Diwakar, Gaurav Gupta

besides others had also attended the marriage.

He claimed that he did not know Nitish Katara

(deceased). He was shown the photograph

Ex.PW 6/2 in which Nitish Katara is appearing

alongwith Bharat Diwakar, Bharti Yadav, Shivani

Gaur and he only identified Bharti Yadav and

Shivani Gaur in the said photograph. He

claimed that he was not aware of if deceased

Nitish Katara was wearing red coloured kurta,

white colour churidaar pajama with white shawl

on his shoulder, an Esprit wrist watch Ex.PW

7/Article A2 and was possessing a cell phone

making Samsung having mobile No. 9811283641,

attended the marriage of Shivani Gaur. He 88 denied that at about 11.15 / 11.30 pm while

Bharat Diwakar, Nitish Katara( deceased) and

Guarav Gupgta were having dinner in the

marriage function he went there and took

Nitish Katara out of Diamond Palace while

talking to him. He also denied that outside

Diamond Palace Banquet Hall his co accused

Vikas Yadav had a quarrel with deceased

Nitish Katara and thereafter he was taken

away by all the accused persons in Tata Safari

bearing No. PB 07H 0085 towards Hapur

Chungi. He also denied the prosecution

evidence that since his co accused Vikas Yadav

and his uncle DP Yadav were against the

relationship of Nitish Katara and Bharti Yadav,

as such Nitish Katara was abducted by him

alongwith his co accused persons on 16/ 17­02­

02 from Diamond Palace Kavi Nagar, Ghaziabad 89 and thereafter murdered him and burnt his

 deadbody so that the same could not be

 identified. He claimed that he even did not

 know Nitish Katara. xv) Regarding the interview given by

 accused Vikas Yadav to reporter PW 36 Revati

 Lau vide cassette Ex PW 36/1 the accused

 has admitted that as per the cassette an

 interview was given by accused Vikas Yadav to

 NDTV reporter and that he himself was also

 appearing in the cassette. He did not deny the

 interview. xvi) It is claimed that he has been falsely

 implicated. It is stated that on the date of

 marriage of Shivani Gaur when he was going

 to attend the same and when he was near his

 car he saw his cousin brother going in black

 Mercedes. They both had a talk and then 90 accused Vikas Yadav told him that he was

going to attend the marriage of Shivani Gaur so

they both went together, entered the premises,

where his cousin sister Bhawna met them,

they greeted the couple, remained there for

10/12 minutes and left the premises. While

they were leaving their cousin sister Bhawna

was near the main gate and asked them as to

why they were going so earlier, to which

accused Vikas told her that he had to go to

Karnal to attend another function so they both

left in the same car. It is stated that there was

nobody else with them. Further from Diamond

Palace they went to the house of their friend

Mr Amit Gandhi to attend his betrothal

ceremony and from there he went to his

residence whereas his cousin went to Karnal. It

is stated that he remained in Ghaziabad till 91 19.2.02 and when he came to know he was

 being framed in this case he left for Allahabad

 on 20.2.02 where he had to meet the accused

 Vikas who had also left for Allahabad There

 they contacted Sh AN Mishra, advocate and

 narrated the circumstances to him and he

 advised them to surrender before the local

 Court at Ghaziabad. From Allahabad they

 took next available train to Delhi to reach

 Ghaziabad and on the way alighted at Dabra

 for refreshments but were falsely implicated

 under Arms Act . xvii) In answer to court question he

 stated that they were travelling by Gomti from

 Allahabad to Ghaziabad but he again stated

 that he did not remember. xviii) In answer to further court question

 he stated that complainant was not known to 92 him but she had problem against his family

 by which he meant his maternal uncle Sh DP

 Yadav. He also stated that police was also

 enemical towards Sh DP Yadav. 29.In defence the accused persons had produced

 26 witnesses in all namely DW 1 Sh. Ashok

 Gandhi, DW 2 Madhu Mohan Nair, DW 3

 Rajender Chaudhary, DW 4 Pawan Kumar

 Diwan, DW 5 Advocate Sh Rajkumar Yadav,

 DW6 Sh Neeraj Gautam, DW 7 Shakti Chand,

 DW 8 Sh Gaurav Agarwal, DW 9 Bhairav

 Prasad, DW 10 HC Chetlal, DW 11 Ombir,

 DW 12 Arvind Mishra, DW 13 Sarvesh Kumar

 Harit, DW 14 Manuj Diwan, DW 15 Vikam

 Garg, DW 16 Mahender Sharma, DW 17

 Sandeep Mishra, DW 18 Dr Deepak Kumar,

 DW 19 Jai Singh, DW 20 BP Mittal, DW 21

 Samar Singh, DW 22 Satpal Yadav, DW 23 93 Inspt Satyavir Singh, DW 24Sh Sunil Kumar

Sharma, DW 25 Jamshed Khan and DW 26

Dilip Kumar Singh. (i) The plea taken by both the accused

persons in their statement U/s 313 Cr.PC is to

the effect that after attending the marriage of

Shivani Gaur they went to attend the betrothal

ceremony of Amit Gandhi, their friend and

thereafter accused Vikas Yadav left for Karnal

to attend another function. To prove this fact

they have examined DW 1 Sh Ashok Gandhi,

the father of Amit Gandhi who deposed to the

effect that he was resident of R 2/233 Rajnagar

Ghaziabad, UP and his son Amit Gandhi got

married in Feb 2002. The ring ceremony of

Amit Gandhi was performed on 16.2.02 at his

residence which was followed by a cocktail

cum dinner party. He deposed about presence 94 of both the accused at his house from 11 /

 11:30pm to 12 /12:15/12:30 midnight. He

 produced three photographs Ex. DW1/D1­ D3

 showing accused Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav

 dancing alongwith the relatives of the witness

 in photographs Ex DW 1/D1 ­ 2 whereas in

 photograph Ex. DW 1/D 3 accused Vikas

 Yadav is seen in the company of the father of

 his daughter in law. He further stated that

 when both the accused had left at that time

 he was present at the gate and they had

 touched his feet and he offered them packet of

 sweets. His servant had kept a packet of sweet

 in the vehicle of accused Vikas Yadav which

 was an exclusive saloon car. He stated that it

 must be Mercedes. Noida, was examined by the defence to prove

 that Tata Safari bearing registration No. PB

 07H 0085 was brought to their workshop on

 16.2.02 for repairs at 10:49am and was

 delivered back on 10.03.2002. The detailed

 statement of this witness shall be discussed at

 the appropriate stage. iii) DW 3 Rajender Chaudhary adv, was

 earlier the counsel for accused Vikas Yadav in

 this case itself when the matter was pending

 before Ghaziabad court. He deposed that on

 27.2.02 an application Ex DW 3/A was moved

 by him giving names of four advocates

 including himself to be present alongwith the

 accused persons during police custody remand.

 He testified that he had accompanied both the

 accused during police custody remand of 3

 days w.e.f 28.2.02 to 01.3.02. He stated that 96 accused persons were collected by the police

from jail on 28.2.02. He went to the jail in his

own vehicle and showed the order of the Court

to the police. The IO told him that he should

join them in his own private vehicle and

would not permit him to sit alongwith them in

their vehicle. As such he followed the police in

his vehicle No. DL 5CB 4595 to Khurja and

he testified that in his presence no recovery

was effected at the instance of either of the

accused nor any proceedings were conducted.

He further testified that on 01.3.02 when

accused persons produced in the Court of CJM

Ghaziabad he informed the Court orally that

he was appointed in this case to accompany the

accused persons and no recovery was made in

his presence and that after he was informed by

the Court that as per the police record 97 recovery of hammer and watch was effected

 by the instance of the accused persons. He

 moved application Ex.DW 3/D alongwith an

 affidavit Ex DW 3/E before the Court that no

 recovery was effected from the spot at Khurja

 at the instance of the accused persons in his

 presence. iv) DW 4 Pawan Kumar Diwan is the

 father of DW14 Manuj Diwan, who was getting

 married at Karnal and a paryojan function

 was organised at his residence on 16/2/02 and

 on next morning on 17/2/02 there was sagan

 ceremony followed by ring ceremony at

 Highway Green in Karnal on Chandigarh Road.

 As per this witness accused Vikas Yadav had

 reached his house No. 204 L Model Town

 Karnal Haryana at about 3am on the

 intervening night of 16/17­02­02 and 98 arrangements of his stay was made at Karna

 lake. As per this witness, accused Vikas

 Yadav attended the function on 17/2/02 for

 about 2½ / 3 hours. The witness produced

 CD Ex. DW 4/1 containing videography of the

 function held at Highway Green showing the

 presence of accused Vikas Yadav with the

 couple after the ring ceremony. This witness

 also produced two photographs mark DW

 4/A and B respectively of the function showing

 presence of accused Vikas Yadav , Manuj Diwan

 and his fiancee. v) DW 5 Sh Rajkumar Yadav was the

 counsel of accused Vishal Yadav in the present

 case on 27.2.02 and had moved an application

 Ex. DW 3/X seeking permission to accompany

 the accused persons during police custody

 remand. vi) DW 6 Sh Neeraj Gautam is another

 counsel who appeared in the court for the

 accused persons after registration of the present

 case and at the instance of accused persons he

 had moved an application Ex. DW 6/1 on

 21.2.02 in the Court of the CJM Ghaziabad

 claiming that the police was harassing them

 and as per their knowledge they were not

 involved in any criminal case. vii) DW 7 Shakti Chand is an employee

 of Nawab Motors. He produced the record

 pertaining to the vehicle No. PB 07H 0085 i e

 the job card bearing No. 221248 Ex. DW 7/A

 dtd 16.02.02. He also produced 13 various

 requisition slips for the various parts to be used

 in the vehicle for repairs which are Ex DW

 7/B to M respectively. He also produced the

 spare part chart Ex.DW 7/P prepared on the 100 reverse of the carbon copy of the job card

 Ex.DW 7/N. He also produced the computerised

 vehicle history attested by Notary Public which

 is Ex. DW 7/Q. The carbon copy of the gate

 pass is Ex. DW 7/R and two bank statements of

 the company i e Nawab Motors for the period

 27/ 28­9­01 & 20/21­2­02 Ex.PW 7/S and T

 respectively showing two payments made by

 cheque for a sum of Rs. 20,000/­ and Rs

 25,000/­ respectively. This witness also

 produced the job cards prepared in Nawab

 Motors in respect of other vehicles received

 before or after receipt of Tata Safari No. PB

 07H 0085 in the workshop. viii) DW 8 Gaurav Agarwal, the record

 keeper in accounts with Indian Sucrose Ltd

 produced the record dtd 19.2.02 pertaining to

 payment of Rs. 25,000/­ through cheque by M/s. 101 Oswal Sugar Ltd to Nawab Motors which was

 encashed on 21.2.02 . He produced the certified

 copy Ex.DW 8/A of the bank statement of

 account No. 35019 in the name of M/s. Oswal

 Sugar Ltd with Oriental Bank of Commerce

 Hauz Khas having its office at B 14

 Gulmohar Park New Delhi. ix) DW 9 Bhairav Prasad, an independent

 witness appeared in defence of accused Vikas

 Yadav to prove his presence in Bisoli

 constituency on 19.2.02. x) DW10 HC Chet Lal proved DD register

 containing DD No 12 A dtd. 17/2/02 Ex. DW

 10/A registered with PS Pahar Ganj on the

 complaint of Nishit Katara , father of the

 deceased Nitish Katara. xi) DW11 Omvir produced the maintenance

 and fuel register maintained in Oswal Sugar 102 Mill regarding 13 vehicles owned by the

 company including vehicle No. PB 07H 0085.

 He also produced a letter Ex DW 11/A dtd.

 12.7.07 written by Gayender Kumar, Chief

 Accountant of the company Indian Sucrose

 Ltd written to the manager OBS Hauz Khas

 New Delhi to issue a certificate and certified

 copy of the bank statement pertaining to

 account No. 35019 Oswal Sugar Limited. He

 also produced another letter written by

 Gayender Kumar to Nawab Motors which is

 Ex. DW 11/B. 

 He is also examined to prove that in

 the evening of 17/2/02 accused Vikas Yadav

 visited the factory at Mukeria at 7:10pm and

 left at 7:40pm. xii) DW12 Arvind Mishra another practising

 advocate at the Hon'ble High Court of 103 Allahabad has been examined in defence to

 prove the presence of both the accused persons

 in Allahabad on 20.02.02 and 21.02.02. xiii) DW13 Survesh Kumar Harit Asstt.

 Engineer was produced in defence to prove the

 siteplan of Hapur Chungi the place where

 Nitish Katara was last seen by PW33 Ajay

 Katara in the company of accused persons. xiv) DW14 Manuj Diwan is the son of DW4,

 whose ring ceremony, accused Vikas Yadav as

 per his statement U/s 313 Cr.PC , had gone to

 attend at Karnal on 17/2/02. xv) DW15 Vikram Garg is the photographer

 examined with a view to prove that the

 photograph Ex.PW6/2 of Nitish Katara alongwith

 others taken at the time of marriage of Shivani

 Gaur, was tampered with and contained

 different details then from the photographs 104 Ex.PW 6/D3 and its enlarged copy Ex.PW 6/D4.

xvi) DW 16 Mahender Sharma, another

 photographer had appeared this court on 6.5.03

 alongwith his computer and had enlarged the

 photograph Ex. PW 6/D3 to Ex.PW 6/D4.

xvii) DW 17 Sandeep Mishra has again

 tried to prove the presence of accused Vikas

 Yadav in the election office at Bisoli on

 19.02.02. xviii) DW 18 Dr Deepak Kumar Agarwal has

 been examined qua PW 33 Ajay Kumar /

 Ajay Katara who was admitted in the Panna

 Lal Hospital on 1.7.07 at 10.10 pm by Mr Arun

 Garg Mr P Singh and Mr Lakhbir singh with

 the history of vomiting and pain in the

 abdomen. This doctor had examined him and

 Ajay Katara told him that around 8.30 pm on

 that day he alongwith his friend had taken 105 some chat, cold drink etc and when he reached

home he started vomiting and felt pain in the

abdomen and also felt that he was administered

some poisonous substance through meals. He

proved the case sheet of the patient as Ex.DW

18/Al to A 13 respectively and the investigation

reports Ex. DW 18/B 1 to B 6. He further

stated that in such kind of patients the

procedure followed is gastric lavage/gastric

suction. However, the patient Ajay Katara

refused to undergo the said procedure.

Regarding this he made endorsement on

Ex.DW 18/A2 encircled red at point X. The

documents Ex.DW 18/ A9, A 10 and A 11 are

bearing his signature at point Y. He proved the

MLC of patient prepared and signed by Dr

Rajesh in his presence as Ex. DW 18/C. This

witness further testified that after going through 106 the reports of Ajay Katara he could say that it

 was not a case of poisoning. xix) DW 19 Jai Singh is another lawyer practising

 at Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad, who claims

 that the accused persons had met him at

 Allahabad on 21.2.02 while they were going to

 the house of Sr advocate Sh AD Giri.

xx) DW 20 BP Mittal is another practising

 lawyer at District Courts at Bulandshahar who

 had filed a divorce petition of Mamta Katara

 against her husband PW33 Ajay Katara. The

 witness produced the certified copy of the WS,

 certified copy of the order passed by the Court

 on the basis of compromise between the parties

 and the certified copy of the decree dtd 27.7.04,

 which are Ex.DW 20/A to D respectively.

 Through the testimony of this witness the

 defence has tried to prove on record that PW 107 33 Ajay Katara was resident of village Bamroli

 District Agra which fact was denied by Ajay

 Katara in his WS Ex. DW 22/B and he gave the

 address of matrimonial house as Sec. 11 E , 115

 Pratap Vihar Ghaziabad. xxi) DW 21 Samar Singh is an another

 advocate practising at the Hon'ble High Court

 of Allahabad who claims that he has been

 handling and looking after the cases of Sh DP

 Yadav, father of accused Vikas Yadav since the

 year 1986. This witness has been examined to

 the effect that SI Anil Somania the IO of the

 present case when was posted in District

 Sambhal from where Sh. DP Yadav was MP,

 had a tussle with Sh DP Yadav since he was

 pursuing the matter of local inhabitants of

 Sambhal Constituency and since Mr DP Yadav

 had declined to supply the wine to the police 108 officers free of cost, it resulted in his

 implication in a false case. xxii) DW 22 is advocate Satpal Yadav.

 The prosecution has claimed that this witness

 was present at the time of recovery of hammer

 Ex. P 1 and wrist watch EX PW 7/Article A2

 at the instance of both the accused persons

 since the recovery memo Ex.PW34/1. He was

 examined by the defence to the effect that he

 was not present at the time of alleged recovery.

xxiii) DW 23 Inspt Satyavir Singh, Company

 Commander, 41 Battalion ''H'' Company

 Ghaziabad UP was examined in defence to

 prove that Ajay Katara is a false witness to the

 effect that he had gone to the residential

 complex 47th Battalion, Ghaziabad on 16.2.02 to

 meet Subhash Chand, a native from his village

 and an employee of UP police and at about 109 12.10 am he left the place of Subhash Chand

and was coming back to Delhi when his scooter

went out of order on the crossing of Hapur

Chungi and from his left side from behind a

vehicle Tata Safari came and his scooter had

just stopped, the person driving Tata Safari was

accused Vikas Yadav who in a very uncivilised

manner told him to remove the scooter and

then the witness went to the Tata Safari and

saw the deceased in the company of both the

accused persons as well as their co accused

Sukhdev Pehalwan. This witness testified that he was

residing at the Residential Complex 47th

Battalion Ghaziabad alongwith his family for

the past 14 years He stated that he remained

posted with 47th Battalion for about 7 years

during the period l992 to l999. Thereafter we.f 110 2000 he is posted in Ghaziabad with 41st

 Battalion. He stated that 47th Battalion is

 equipped with sophisticated weapons to fight

 against terrorism and fundamentalists. In the

 residential complex itself there is armoury and

 magazine where the arms and ammunitions are

 stored and for its security the residential

 complex is surrounded by wall and there is an

 entry point and an exit point and line police is

 posted on both these points for 24 hrs. At the

 quarter guard there is armed force posted. A

 register is also maintained at the entry point

 and who so ever from outside enters the

 complex and does not belong to the PAC

 whether it is 47th or 41 Battalion, an entry

 is made in the register. xxiii) DW24 Sh Sunil Kumar Sharma,

 Ahlmad to the Court of CJM Ghaziabad UP 111 produced the summoned record pertaining to

 case No. 105/07 Crime No. 77/07 of PS

 Kavi Nagar titled as ''Smt Tanu Chaudhary

 Vs. Ajay Katara and Ors.'' U/s 498­A/323/506 IPC and 3 & 4 Dowry Prohibition Act . xxiv) DW 25 Jamshed Khan Deputy

 Executive Producer Star News who had

 conducted a sting operation on SI Anil Somania

 & Ors. in Feb 2005. It is stated that the sting

 operation was conducted regarding encounter

 done by SI Anil Somania to expose as to how

 false encounters were done by the police. xxv) DW 26 Sh Dalip Kumar Singh,

 Group Editor of Jain Television was examined

 in defence to prove on record some interview

 given by Tanu Chaudhary wife of Ajay Katara,

 which was telecasted by Jain TV on 20.2.05 ,

 however the witness could not produce any 112 record to this effect and testified that record is

 maintained only for 90 days. The witness even

 refused to comment upon the CD produced by

 the defence counsel, containing any such

 interview. 30. I have heard arguments at length

 addressed by Sh BS Joon, Spl. For the State

 assisted by Sh. Kaushik Dey, counsel for the

 complainant, Sh. KN Balgopal, Sr. Counsel

 assisted by Sh GK Bharti, counsel for accused

 Vikas Yadav and Sh SK Sharma, counsel for

 accused Vishal Yadav. I have also gone

 through the relevant material on record with

 the help of above named and have also gone

 through the written submissions filed on record

 by both the parties. 31. The present case is based on

 circumstantial evidence for want of eye 113 witness. The prosecution claims to have proved

on record their case through the following

circumstances: An application Ex.PW 35/13A was moved by IO

on 24.2.2002 before the Dabra Court for obtaining

transit remand of the accused persons and even

in this application IO had not mentioned Sec.

302 IPC but only Sec. 364 IPC. viii) Accused stated in his statement U/s 313 Cr.PC that he was tortured by the police with

cigarettes buds before their interview to NDTV,

however no such injury marks are seen in MLC

dtd. 28.2.02. Even the said statement of accused

Vikas Yadav does not find corroboration from

the statement of accused Vishal Yadav U/s 313 117 Cr. PC, wherein he has nowhere alleged that

accused Vikas Yadav was tortured by the police

with the cigarettes buds before the interview on

NDTV was recorded. ix) Recovery of hammer Ex. P l at the

instance of accused Vikas Yadav and recovery

of wrist watch EX. PW 7/ Article A2 at the

instance of accused Vishal Yadav in presence

of adv. SP Yadav, in furtherance of their

disclosure statement Ex. PW 35/16 and Ex PW

35/17 respectively. x) The wrist watch was correctly identified

by the complainant in judicial TIP that it was the

same watch which was gifted to Nitish Katara by

Bharti Yadav which was worn by Nitish Katara

at the marriage of Shivani Gaur . xi) Recovery of Tata Safari bearing

registration No. PB 07H 0085 at the instance of 118 both the accused from burnt thread factory AB

Coltex at Karnal on 11/3/02 in the presence of

PW Sultan Singh, security guard of the factory

which was owned by Sh DP Yadav. xii After completion of the MBA Course

from IMT Nitish Katara took up a job with

Reliance General Insurance and his office was at

Hans Plaza, Connaught Place. Bharti Yadav

opened her bank account in BNP Paribas Bank,

Barakhamba Road, Connaught Place, New Delhi

near the office of Nitish Katara and Bharti

Yadav gave her address in the bank as 7,

Chemsford Road, New Delhi which was the

residential address of Nitish Katara, though she

was having two addresses in Delhi, i e B­14,

Gulmohar Park and 15, Balwant Rai Mehta Lane,

New Delhi, the official accommodation her father

since he was MP during those days. The account 119 was opened with an initial amount of Rs. 10,000/­

through a cheque . Strangely enough this cheque

was issued from the account of deceased Nitish of

HDFC Bank. As soon as the incident took place

on 1/3/02 the application was moved by Bharti to

BNP Paribas Bank for change of address from 7

Chemsford to B­14 Gulmohar Park. xiii. On 24/8/00, Bharti Yadav, Bhawna

Yadav, her fiancee Deepak Yadav and one

Rocky alongwith deceased Nitish Katara visited

Bombay to celebrate the birthday of Bhawna

Yadav and no other close friend accompanied

them . xiv Call records of Bharti Yadav , Nitish

Katara, Bharat Diwakar and Gaurav Gupta who

was using phone of Yashoman tomar, Neelam

Katara, Nitin Katara , Vikas Yadav and Sh. DP

Yadav. xv Photographs of the marriage of Shivani

Gaur, Intimate photographs of Nitish Katara and

Bharti Yadav, greeting cards, love letters and

gifts etc sent by Bharti Yadav to deceased. All the

documents are duly exhibited. xvi Co accused Sukhdev Pehalwan

absconded and was arrested on 23/2/05 from

Dewariya. xvii Human blood was detected on

hammer Ex P l as per the CFSL report Ex.

PW 35/57. xviii Accused Vikas Yadav was convicted in

Jessica Lal murder case. He was also involved

in murder case in the year 1991 which was

withdrawn in the year 1994. xix False plea of alibi taken by the

accused persons and false defence taken in

statement U/s 313 Cr PC, false defence evidence 121 led by the accused persons to mislead the Court. 

xx Postmortem report and deadbody of

the identification. 33. In my opinion these 20 circumstances

can be summed up as follows: iii Recovery of weapon of offence, the

belongings of the deceased and Tata Safari

bearing registration No PB 07H 0085. circumstances, arguments on the principles of law

to be applied in such cases were also addressed. 122 The learned counsel for the accused persons Sh.

KN Balgopal and Sh SK Sharma placed reliance

upon 1953 Crl.LJ 129 Hanumant Vs State of MP,

2007 (2) JCC page 1249 Hatti Singh Vs State of

Haryana , 2006 (10) Supreme Court Cases 172

Ramreddy Rajesh Khanna Reddy Vs State of

A.P, 2003(1) CC Cases (SC) 145 Bharat Vs

State of M.P and 1997 Crl.LJ 3686 (Delhi High

Court) Arun Kumar Vs. N.G. Mandi. The learned counsel for the accused

persons Sh. KN Balgopal and Sh SK Sharma

specifically referred to the following paragraph of

the various judgments cited by them. In 1953 Crl. LJ 129 Hanumant Vs

State of MP, the defence counsels referred to

paragraph 10 which read as under:­

 ''
 ......... In dealing with
 circumstantial evidence rules specifically 123 applicable to such evidence must be kept
in mind. In such cases there is always
the danger that conjecture or suspicion
may take the place of legal proof and
therefore, it is right to recall the
warning addressedby Baron Alderson to
the jury in Reg. VS hadge (1938) 2
Leewin 227 where he said: It is well to remember that in
case where the evidence is of a
circumstantial nature, the
circumstances from which the
conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should
in the first instance be fully established
and all the facts so established, should
be consistent only with the hypothesis of
the guilt of the accused. Again, the
circumstances should be of a conclusive
nature and tendency and they should b
such as to exclude every hypothesis
but the one proposed to be proved. In
other words, there must be a chain of
evidence so complete as not to leave any
reasonable ground for a conclusion
consistent with the innocence of the
accused and it must be such as to show
that within all human probability the act 125 must have been done by the
 accused............" In 2007 (2) JCC page 1249 Hatti Singh

Vs State of Haryana , the defence counsels

referred to paragraph 29 which read as under:­

 " ... ..There cannot be any
 doubt that conviction can be based n
 circumstantial evidence, but therefore
 the prosecution must establish that the
 chain of circumstances only
 consistently point to the guilt of the
 accused and is inconsistent with his
 innocence. Circumstances, as is well
 known, from which an inference of guilt
 is sought to be drawn are required to
 be cogently and firmly established. They
 have to be taken into consideration 126 cumulatively. They must be able to
 conclude that within all human
 probability the accused committed the
 crime... .." State of A.P the defence counsels referred to

paragraph 26 which read as under:­

 ''It is now well settled hat
 with a view to base a conviction on
 circumstantial evidence, the prosecution
 must establish all the pieces of
 incriminating circumstances by reliable
 and clinching evidence and the
 circumstances so proved must form such
 a chain of events as would permit no 127 conclusion other than one of guilt of the
 accused. The circumstances cannot be
 on any other hypothesis. It is also well
 settled that suspicion, however grave it
 may be, cannot be a substitute for a
 proof and the courts shall take utmost
 precaution in finding an accused guilty
 only on the basis of the circumstantial
 evidence. ... ...'' 

 In 2003(1) CC Cases (SC) 145

Bharat Vs State of M.P it is held : All the above referred conditions must

be fulfilled before a case against an accused

based on circumstantial evidence can be said to

be fully established. If these conditions are

fulfilled only then a Court can use a false

explanation or a false defence as an additional

link to lend an assurance to the Court and not

otherwise. The Spl. PP for State, Sh B S Joon 134 submitted that most important caution, however

is that the circumstances are to be seen in

totality and not separately or singularly.

Separately, a circumstance may be innocuous

but the circumstance have to be read as an

integral part. The court ought not to reject the

circumstances one by one and then hold that the

case is not made. Sh BS Joon, relied upon 2000

(1) JCC (SC) 20 CK Reveendran Vs. State of

Kerala, 2002(8) Supreme 220 Anthony D

Souza & Ors. Vs State of Karnataka and 1991

(1) JCC (SC) 283 Arvind @ Pappu Vs State (

Delhi Administration). of the various judgments cited by him. PP for State referred to paragraph 4 which read

as under:­

 '
 'The prosecution must
 prove each of the circumstances, having
 a definite tendency pointing towards the
 guilt of the accused and though each of
 the circumstances by itself may not be
 conclusive but the cumulative effect of
 proved circumstances must be so
 complete that it would exclude every
 other hypothesis and unequivocally point
 to the guilt of the accused... ... ......" In 2002(8) Supreme 220 Anthony

D Souza & Ors. Vs State of Karnataka the

Spl. PP for State referred to paragraph which

read as under:­

 "In a case of circumstantial 136 evidence where an accused offers false

answers in his explanation under section

313 Cr.PC 1973 against the established

facts that can be counted providing a

missing link for completing the chain." The standard of proof required to
convict a person on circumstantial
evidence is now established by a series of
decisions of this Court. According to
that standard the circumstances relied
upon in support of the conviction must
be fully established and the chain of 137 evidence furnished by those
circumstances must be so complete as
not to leave any reasonable ground for a
conclusion consistent with the innocence
of the accused. The circumstances from
which the conclusion of the guilt is to be
drawn have not only to be fully
established but also that all the
circumstances so established should be
of a conclusive nature and consistent
only with the hypothesis of the guilt of
the accused and should not be capable
of being explained by any other
hypothesis, except the guilt of the
accused and when all the circumstances
cumulatively taken together should lead
to the only irresistible conclusion that
the accused alone is the perpetrator of
the crime. To quote a few decisions of
this Court in this regard reference may 138 be made to the case of Sharad
 Birdhichand Sarda Vs State of
 Maharashtra1984 (4) SCC 116: The position which emerges from the

judgments of the Honble Supreme Court

cited above is that in the matter of circumstantial

evidence constituting the chain of the case of

the prosecution, while dealing with individual

circumstance, the court is to consider if the

circumstance as a fact stands proved by

preponderance of evidence. While considering 139 the circumstance it is also to be considered

whether any particular circumstance also suggest

any other reasonable hypothesis than what is

claimed by the prosecution. If yes than what is

the effect of such reasonable hypothesis on the

total circumstances considered together

cumulatively. If the accused persons with respect to

particular circumstance claim that the existence

of circumstance is on account of another

reasons than what is claimed and emerges out of

the evidence of the prosecution then the court

is also to consider the evidence that may be

adduced by the accused, either in defence or

elicited in cross­ examination. Considering all

this aspect the court is to consider if the

circumstance stands proved/ unproved. If the

evidence adduced by the accused creates even 140 suspicion of such claim, then such circumstance

shall not be held as proved and will not be

considered in the chain of the case of the

prosecution. The cumulative effect of all the

circumstances as are held to be proved shall be

considered as against the accused qua the

explanation submitted by the accused so as to

find out if the case is proved beyond reasonable

doubt. Individual circumstances are not to be

rejected if they satisfy the test of proved by

preponderance of evidence . It is only the

cumulative effect of the circumstances which is

to be considered with the hypothesis which has

been put by the prosecution while considering the

concept of beyond reasonable doubt. 32. Keeping in mind the aforesaid

 principles the various circumstances which have

 been claimed to have been proved by the 141 prosecution are to be considered as to whether

 the prosecution infact is able to prove them on

 record. It is also to be taken into consideration

 if any of the proved circumstance directs any

 other hypothesis ie other than the guilt of

 accused persons. The total and cummulative

 effect of all the circumstances is to be taken

 into consideration to arrive at a finding that

 these circumstances lead to no other hypothesis

 except proving the guilt of accused persons. both the accused persons had strong motive to

 kill the Nitish Katara since Ms Bharti Yadav,

 the sister of accused Vikas Yadav and cousin

 sister of accused Vishal Yadav had a love affair

 with the Nitish Katara which relationship they 142 wanted to culminate in marriage which was not

 to their liking and hence the deceased was

 eliminated. ''any fact is relevant which shows

or constitutes a motive for commission of

the alleged crime.'' 

 As explained by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Ranga Nayaki 's case reported in

(2004) 12 SCC 521. ''Motive is the emotion

 which impels a person to do a

 particular act and such an impelling

 power may not be proportionate to the

 gravity of the crime. Many a murder

 has been committed without any 143 known or prominent motive and it is

 quite possible that the impelling

 factor may remain undiscoverable.'' iv) Motive plays an important role in

 order to tilt the scale against the accused. In

 a case which is based on circumstantial

 evidence motive assumes greater importance.

 It is settled law that in order to bring home

 the guilt of the accused it is not necessary for

 the prosecution to prove the motive. Existence

 of motive is only one of the circumstances to

 be kept in mind while appreciating the evidence

 adduced by the prosecution. If the evidence of

 the witnesses appears to be truthful and

 convincing, failure to prove the motive is not

 fatal to the prosecution as held in the case

 of Bhimapa Chandappa Hosamani Vs State

 of Karnataka reported in (2006) 11 SCC 323. 144 v) It is also held by the Hon'ble Apex

 Court in the case of Yuvraj Ambar Mohite Vs

 State of Maharashtra reported in 2006 (10)

 Scale Page 369 that when a case is based on

 circumstantial evidence of last seen, absence of

 motive is immaterial. It is held that the

 immediate motive for killing the deceased by

 the appellant might not have been proved.

 What transpired in a closed room cannot be

 known. vi) Now it is to be seen as to what

 evidence has been produced by the prosecution

 to prove that the accused persons had motive

 to eliminate the deceased. The prosecution has

 alleged that Ms Bharti Yadav had love affair

 with the deceased and they both wanted to

 marry but both the accused persons did not

 approve of their relationship and finding an 145 appropriate opportunity on the occasion of

marriage of Shivani Gaur which was attended

by both the accused persons as well as by the

deceased, was abducted from the Diamond

Palace Banquet Hall by both the accused

persons and their co­accused Sukhdev and was

killed. It is claimed by the prosecution that

the deceased was taken out of Diamond Palace

by accused Vishal Yadav and thereafter was

seen in the company of both the accused

persons outside the Diamond Palace and again

near Hapur Chungi by the prosecution

witnesses around 12/12.30 mid night on the

intervening night of 16/17.2.02. On the next

morning ie 17.2.02 the deadbody of the

deceased was found in burnt condition from

a pit near fields of Zahir Vakil on Shikarpur

Road, a place within the jurisdiction of PS 146 Khurja Nagar. vii) On the other hand, the accused

 persons have denied that they had any

 knowledge of any such affair between Ms

 Bharti Yadav , sister of accused Vikas Yadav

 and cousin sister of accused Vishal Yadav and

 the deceased or their plan to marry. They also

 denied that deceased was known to them. They

 both have pleaded alibi to the effect that at

 the time the deceased was allegedly abducted

 from Diamond Palace and was seen in the

 company of both the accused persons and their

 co accused Sukhdev Yadav near Hapur Chungi,

 they were present at the house of DW 1 Ashok

 Gandhi to attend the ring ceremony of his son

 Amit Gandhi, who was their school friend. And

 thereafter accused Vishal Yadav went to his

 house from the place of DW 1 Ashok Gandhi, 147 whereas accused Vikas Yadav left for Karnal to

 attend the function relating to marriage of DW

 14 Sh. Manuj Diwan. viii) In this regard the prosecution has

 relied upon the testimony of PW 30 Smt

 Neelam Katara the mother of the deceased, PW

 38 Bharti Yadav, PW 39 Nitiin Katara, the

 brother of deceased, PW 42 Bhawna Yadav .

 PW 21 Deepak Gupta, Nodal Officer, Hutchison

 Essar Telecom Ltd. PW 22 RK Singh from

 Bharti Cellular Ltd, PW 34 SI JK Gangwar,

 PW 35 SI Anil Somania and PW40 Shvendra

 Tiwari, Asstt. Manager, HDFC Bank, Surya Kiran

 Branch, Connaught Place, New Delhi and to

 some extent PW 25 Bharat Diwakar. ix) The arguments of the defence counsel

 are that the testimony of PW 30 Mrs.Neelam

 Katara does not inspire credence, as it is full of 148 improvements and the witness has been

confronted with her previous statements U/s

161 Cr PC dtd. 17.2.02 Ex.PW 30/DA and dtd.

14.3.02 Ex.PW 30/DB to this effect. It is

further submitted that the prosecution has also

referred to so called telephone communication

between Bharti Yadav and the friends of

Nitish Katara and his mother, Mrs. Neelam

katara but it does not find corroboration from

the statement of Bharti Yadav nor were the

said statements made by the complainant in her

statement to the police U/s 161 Cr PC

recorded on two occasions spanning over a

period of 25 days. It is submitted that the

complainant and Bharti Singh did not possess

mobile phone in their name. (Neelam Katara

and Nitin Katara had stated that Neelam

Katara was possessing mobile No. 9810206099 149 and this fact is not disputed by the defence in

 cross examination of both these witnesses)

 Further that there is no transcript of any such

 calls nor there is any corroboration of these

 calls from the concerned persons nor has any

 incriminating evidence emerged from the so

 called telephonic conversation. x) It is further argued that PW 11

 Shivani was a classmate of Bharti Singh and

 even she was not aware of any such

 relationship between Nitish Katara and Bharti

 Singh. Bharti Singh herself has deposed that

 the mother of Nitish was aware that she and

 Nitish were close friends but she was opposed

 to their relationship. She has further stated

 that she did not want her relationship with

 Nitish in the press even then and now and the

 media had overblown it which is not to her 150 liking. xi) It is further submitted that in the

 entire evidence produced by the prosecution

 apart from the relatives of Nitish Katara no

 witness has deposed to the effect that either

 they were aware of any such relationship or

 that any such relationship existed. Even in

 her statement U/s 161 Cr PC Bharti Singh had

 merely stated that her relationship was known

 to her Mami wife of Sh Bharat Yadav and her

 Bua and they had assured her that after the

 elections of her brother Vikas Yadav they would

 talk to her father about her marriage with

 Nitish Katara. It is submitted that none of

 them have been produced as prosecution

 witness to this effect. xii) It is further argued that the entire

 bunch of letters produced by the complainant 151 does not anywhere indicate that either the said

 relationship was known to her brothers or they

 had opposed the same. The claim of motive

 raised by the prosecution is hollow. That even

 when the prayer for examining her by video

 conferencing was suggested but the prosecution

 had opposed it on untenable grounds. Bharti

 Singh was projected as the star witness in the

 case until she came and deposed. When the

 prosecution did not find any shelter in her

 statement they immediately promoted Ajay

 Katara as the star witness. xiii) It is further submitted that the

 prosecution had attempted to make out a case

 that Bharti's brother did not like her dancing

 while Shivani has clarified that on the said

 date there was no dance. xiv) Further that even the 152 complainant PW 30 Mrs. Neelam Katara had

 mentioned in her cross examination that there

 was no reason for her to make any complaint

 against any of the family member of Bharti

 Yadav. The apprehension that Bharti Singh

 had from the time Nitish Katara was

 missing, has been falsely put up by the

 complainant and she has been confronted

 adequately on these aspects with her earlier

 statements and Bharti Singh had denied these

 facts in her examination nor did she make

 such statement in her so called statement to

 the police. Whatever she wanted to say she

 had conveyed to the concerned senior police

 officer and the same was published in the

 Newspaper and the prosecution has not

 rebutted the same. xv) On the other hand the Spl. PP 153 for State has argued that in the present case

the prosecution has proved the motive of the

accused persons to the hilt. It is submitted that

prosecution has proved on record various

circumstances which conclusively prove the

closeness and proximity between Bharti Yadav

and Nitish Katara which is evident from her

greeting cards and letters she wrote to Nitish

Katara and these are all admitted by her during

her testimony. Further he has submitted that

her opening bank account with the address of

Nitish Katara, the visit of Nitish to Bombay

alongwith Bharti, her sister Bhawna and her

fianc e to celebrate the birthday of Bhawna in

August 2000, the visit of Bharti and Nitish to

Fatehpur Sikri, Jim Corbrett Park, their intimate

photographs all prove that they had intimate

relationship and their intention was to marry. It 154 is further submitted that through the letters

 Ex.PW30/C1 and PW30/C4 the knowledge of her

 family members about their affair has also been

 proved. Besides, it is submitted that Neelam

 Katara s testimony to the fact that Nitish

 Katara told her that he was in love with her

 and they both wanted to marry and that this

 fact was known to her brothers ie accused

 Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav but they were

 averse to their marriage for the reason they

 wanted Bharti to be married in their own caste

 and for the reason Nitish Katara belonged to

 family of government servants has remained

 unrebutted. xvi) Now it is to be seen whether the

 prosecution has been able to prove by cogent

 evidence that Ms Bharti Yadav had love

 affair with the deceased and that the accused 155 persons had the knowledge of their affair

 and their intention to marry and that they did

 not approve of their such relationship. Venketeshwar college Delhi took admission in

 IMT Ghaziabad in MBA course in the year

 l998. He passed out from IMT in the year

 2000 and thereafter he joined as Management

 Trainee with Reliance General Insurance .

 After completing his training he was confirmed

 as Asstt. Manager about one month before his

 death and his last office was in Hans Plaza

 Connaught Place. She testified that Bharti

 Singh, Gaurav Gupta, Bharat Diwakar and

 Shivani were his close friends. Regarding

 Shivani, she stated that though she was not 156 in the same course in which her son was but

she became friendly to him being friend of

Bharti Singh. She further testified that her son

Nitish and Bharti Singh got acquainted being

in the same course in IMT Ghaziabad and also

being in the same project during the course.

She testified that after college while most of

the friends of Nitish moved out but he

remained in Delhi because of his father' s

condition who was ailing. Regarding Bharti

Singh, it is stated that she too had not taken

up any job so this brought them closer and

from friendship they fell in love with each

other. Both of them used to organise get

together when other friends used to visit Delhi.

It is stated that size of flower bouquet being

sent by Bharti Singh was increasing and

specially on birthday of Nitish in April 2001, so 157 from her mother's sense she could gather that

 their closeness and intimacy was increasing.

 She further stated that she had questioned her

 son about this but she could not get clear

 answer till Dec 2001. xviii) She further stated that Bharti Singh's

 statement of account from BNP Paribas Bank

 Connaught Place used to come at her address

 ie 7 Chemsford Road but she did not open

 that statement of account prior to the death of

 her son. She opened that statement of account

 after the death of her son and came to know

 that Bharti Singh had given their address in

 the bank for her account. xix) She further testified that she was on a

 business trip to Bombay in August 2000 and

 was to return to Delhi by Rajdhani on

 24.8.2000 but since her meeting got delayed 158 she had to change her plan and decided to

 travel by Jet Airways. In order to inform her

 son about change of her plan she called him

 on phone and then came to know that he had

 also come to Bombay at the birthday function

 of Bhawna Yadav and told her that it was a

 whole day programme and they had come for

 an outing. Further, he informed her that he

 would also be going back to Delhi by Jet

 Airways the same flight by which she was to

 go back. She met him at the airport and he

 pointed out to her his friends Bharti, Bhawna,

 Deepak and two more who were also at the

 airport. xx) PW 30 Mrs.Neelam Katara produced

 photographs Ex PW 11/1 to Ex. PW 11/4 in

 which both Nitish ( deceased) and Bharti are

 appearing together. It is observed as stated 159 by the witness that the photographs Ex. PW

 11/ 2 and Ex.PW 11/4 were clicked at

 Fatehpuri Sikri as per the background shown in

 the photographs. xxi) She further testified that Bharti used to

 send cards and letters very frequently to her

 son Nitish. There was a single valentine album

 sent by Bharti to Nitish in which she had

 tucked cards and written messages out of which

 two cards are Ex.PW30/l and Ex.PW30/2. She

 further testified that apart from these two cards

 there were several other cards which she

 lateron proved during her further testimony

 dtd. 3.5.2003 as Ex.PW 30/C1 to Ex.PW

 30/C 83. She testified that she had shown

 all these documents to the IO who chose only

 two greeting cards Ex. PW 30/1 and 2. She

 further testified that Bharti used to call her 160 son by his nick name 'Chimpu' which was the

 family nick name by which they used to call

 him. Bharti also used to call him by other nick

 name like 'Pudda etc'. Similarly Nitish also

 used to call Bharti as Ghugu and Bharti also

 used to write this nick name in her cards.

 Further her son also used to call her as 'Chuha'.

 Bharti also used to write herself as Ghugles. 

xxii) She further testified that in Dec.

 2001 her son Nitish had disclosed to her about

 his intention and love for Bharti and he told

 her that he was not in a hurry to marry as he

 wanted to settle down first but Bharti's father

 was looking a match for her and therefore she

 may have to disclose to her father about her

 love. It is further stated that they both wanted

 to marry . xxiii) She further testified that Nitish 161 told her that Bharti was planning to tell her

father about their intention to marry and that

her brothers i e both the accused present in

Court knew about her intention but they

were averse to her marriage with him, however,

she was confident that she would be able to

convince her father. Her son further told her

that Bharti was waiting for an opportunate time

and for her brother to go out of town after the

election and that as her brother's marriage

was fixed for 6th March, she was hopeful that

after marriage when he goes out she would be

able to convince her father. The witness

further testified that when she asked her son as

to what was the objection being raised by them,

she was told that there were two objections,

firstly they will marry the girl in their own

community and secondly the family of Nitish 162 was of government servants and they consider

 the service class to be a poor class. She further

 stated that she too had her own objections and

 after considering pros and cons she told Nitish

 that it would not be a suitable marriage but he

 was adamant. It is stated that she had told

 Nitish about the possible interference and that

 brother of Bharti was already facing criminal

 cases but her son was looking everything

 through tinted glass and was adamant to

 marry her. xxiv) Above is the statement of PW 30

 Smt Neelam Katara with regard to the

 relationship between Nitish Katara and

 Bharti Yadav. xxv) Now let us have a look at the

 greeting cards and the letters sent by Bharti

 to Nitish ( deceased) to find out from the 163 contents as to what was the relationship

 between the two, whether it was merely

 friendship or something more than that which

 could be termed as love affair which

 they intended to culminate in marriage. 

xxvi) It is pertinent to mention that

 PW 38 Bharti Yadav has admitted in her

 testimony that she sent all these letters and

 greeting cards to Nitish. Besides the greeting

 cards Ex.PW 30/1 and 2 there are other

 greeting cards and letters and gifts Ex PW

 30/C 1 to C83 sent by Ms. Bharti Yadav to

 Nitish Katara, the deceased. xxvii) The perusal of the greeting

 cards Ex PW 30/1 and 2 shows that these are

 simple greeting cards written by Bharti to

 Nitish which do not reflect any love affair

 between the two but only friendship. It is 164 strange to note that the IO out of a lot of 85

 greeting cards and letters and gifts chose

 only these two greeting cards Ex. PW 30/1

 and 2 which were only reflecting friendly

 relations between the two and nothing more

 than that. Whereas the other greeting cards and

 letters which I shall discuss hereinafter one by

 one are reflecting something more than

 friendship. It appears that intentionally the IO

 picked up only these two cards and avoided to

 bring other material on record which was more

 relevant to prove that the relationship between

 the two was not merely friendship but

 something more than that. xxviii) The letter Ex. PW 30/C1 is the

 most important document to prove the

 relationship between Bharti and Nitish . The

 same is reproduced as follows: Without you there's no meanin in my life.... i can feel a

vaccum within me without u. U r the only thing Oops !

I mean the only one i ask for.....i 'll go nething for you

but cannot even bear the mere thot of living without u. Chimpu I love u and i love u a lot. Sweetheart, I

dunno y m writin tis 2 u but I really really missed u on

my birthday... i tried. I howled and did xactly the way u

wanted me to do.... and u no what hurted me the most...

the fact the I wa not able to even see ur face on my

birthday.... u huggin me and wishin me face to face just

remained a dream for me..... I know from next year 175 onwards u 'll always b there.... but honey tis year wud

neva cum bak... tis was my first b'day... and it was not

with u and i was tou not even close to you i was very far

away.... sabko happy rakhna hai haina?..... nai

sweetheart m no complain n m not cribbin m just

tellin u tht i didnt feel gud n next year is tooo far

abhie.... N thanku ! Pudda I felt like the luckiest person

on earth wen I received ur cards in ur sweet special

way... ur gesture was so sweet that I dun have words to

define... after each card i was waitin for nother.... ever

after receiving the last letter I was still waitin 4 yet

nother....''Yaha ka mausam bahut haseen phir b dil tou

udass hai yun tou tumse door sahi mai dil tou tumhare

paas hai''
 Love u naa ! ((*)) yaha the weather is damn

xc..... the cool breeze, clouds in ur feet, thanda... 176 ummmm everythin is just purrfect the only thing which

is missin is 'u'
 . Its almost 3:00 in the night... everythin

is quiet.. i can clearly hear the drizlin sound... can feel

the 'thandi hawa' and the silence of the night.... just

wish u were here to hold me in ur arms and i cud lie

there in ur lap like a baby... but then again a dream of

mine (n it will pucca cum true one day!!) i am missin u

Chimpu..... badly :( tumhari bahut yaad aayi saara din,

saara waqt.. pata nai kab tumsae mulungi... ya.

Hopefully on tuesday... m just waitin... i wanna fly

away n cum 2 u ...b with u in ur arms cuddly n cozy...

but :( hard luck. Baby m Missing u !

 Please aa jaao na

 Mele paas! 177 Please ! 

 Love U !

 Love U !

 Love U ! Love U ! Love U

!

 I love you Chimpu U r m life my love cannot live

without u... life doesn't have ne meanin without u...

kabhi saath matt leave karna varna survive nai kar

paungi.... promise karo please.... that u'll always with

me and for me, will neva betray or cheat me... i wont be

able to take it... sab mujhe darate hai, samjate hai but i

trust u Mere trust ko kabhi tootnay matt dena.... I love

you... ab mujhe cute baby is that hug kao... kissi dou

and promise dou ki u 'll always b MINE.'' 178 xxxii) The perusal of this letter

 apparently gives a loud and clear message that

 she was madly in love with the deceased.

 Giving respect to her feelings I do not want to

 comment any more on the contents of the

 letter as it was something too personal to her.

 However, at the time I cannot restrain myself

 from observing that as per this letter Bharti,

 without Nitish, had no meaning in her life.

 She could not even think of living without

 him. Besides, the contents of the letter shows

 that it was Bharti's birthday when she was

 away from Nitish and missed him like

 anything but she was sure that next year

 onwards he ( Nitish )would always be there

 with her but still she repented that the birthday

 she celebrated without him would never come

 back. She made a request to Nitish in the 179 letter that he should never leave her or she

 would not be able to survive. She also sought

 promise from him that he would always be

 with her and for her and will never betray or

 cheat her as she won't be able to take it. It

 is important to note that in this letter she has

 also made reference that she had been

 threatened by everyone and they had also

 tried to make her understand but she still

 trusted Nitish. She also mentioned that she

 has to please everyone. expressed her fear from her family regarding

 her relationship with the deceased which proves

 that it was not approved by her family

 members and that this was the motive behind

 the abduction and murder of the deceased by 180 the accused persons. Whereas on the other

 hand the counsel for the accused persons have

 submitted that this one line in the aforesaid

 letter is of no consequence and does not prove

 that whatever relationship was there between

 the two was known to the accused persons and

 they had any objection to the same. 

xxxiv) However, in my opinion the

 language of the letter is absolutely simple and

 straight. Bharti had expressed her feelings for

 Nitish with open heart in the letter and as

 per the contents of the same she was even

 hopeful of getting married to the deceased

 during the next year ie 2002, though she did

 not use the word ''marriage'' in the letter but

 the contents of the same lead to no other

 conclusion as she clearly wrote in the same,

 " Sweat Heart , I do not know why I am 181 writing this to you but I really, really miss you on
my birthday.... I cried, I howled and did exactly the
way you wanted me to do ....and you know what
hurted me the most, ....the fact that I was not
able to even see your face on my birthday ...you
hugging me and wishing me face to face just remained
a dream for me. I 
 know
 from next year onwards 
you will always be there ... but honey this year would
never come back.'' 
 

 She also wrote in this letter the

reason as to why she could not celebrate her

birthday with the deceased. She wrote in the

letter ­

 Sabko happy rakhna hai haina? which also leads to the inference that she had

been sent to Shimla on her birthday under

pressure and she could not celebrate her birthday

with Nitish despite the fact that she wanted to do

so. It is also written in her aforesaid letter

that­

 Sab mujhe darate hai samjhate

hai but i trust you mere trust ko kabhi

tootnay mat dena, i love you . The above referred contents of her

letter shows that she was threatened by her

family members who did not approve of her

relationship with the deceased and were trying to

persuade her to severe of her relationship but she

still trusted the deceased and was hopeful. Even

in the letter Ex.PW30/C1 she speaks in guarded

words that for the last 6 months she was hoping

things would change from better to good but

they were turning from bad to worse. She also

mentioned in the said letter that she cannot talk

to anybody and how lonely she was at times.

These letters further reflect unpleasantness about 183 her relations with Nitish at her house and that

situation was getting from bad to worse. The

letter means to say that her affair was known to

her family but was not approved. Xxxv) Documents Ex. PW 30/C5 to C 15,

Ex.PW30/ C 18 to C 73, Ex.PW 30/ C 75 to

C78 and Ex.PW 30/ C 83 are greeting cards

sent by Bharti to Nitish on different occasions

such like birthday, friendship day, valentine day

etc. All these cards are nothing but full of love

from Bharti to Nitish. The greeting card Ex.

PW 30/C 20, though is not bearing any date but

one thing is clear from the card that when it

was sent by Bharti to Nitish she was in a

confused state of mind and did not know what to

think, what to decide and what to do but she

trusted Nitish and believed in him and wanted

him to live upto it so as not to regret anything 184 later. It appears from the aforesaid card that

the confusion which prevailed in her mind was

regarding her relationship with the deceased as to

whether she was on the right path and whether

she could trust the deceased to be sincere to her.

xxxvi) In the greeting card Ex.PW 30/C42

 she has made it clear that the deceased was

 not only her best friend but he was her lover

 too. xxxvii) Ex.PW 30/ C 74 is the bed sheet

 of blue, red and white colour with boxes

 printed thereon and in each box the word 

 Love is mentioned which must be thousand

 in number. PW30 Neelam Katara has claimed

 that this was gifted by Bharti to Nitish.

 However, when Bharti appeared in the

 witness­box she denied that she gave this bed

 sheet as a gift to the deceased. The reason 185 was obvious as it was not bearing her writing

 which could be compared with her admitted

 writing and it is only for this reason she

 admitted all the letters and greeting cards since

 they were in her own writing and could be

 proved otherwise also through the expert

 evidence. xxxviii) PW 30 Neelam Katara further

 produced on record the valentine day album

 Ex. PW 30/C 79 and testified that it was sent

 by Bharti to Nitish, which consists of

 photographs Ex. PW 30/C 80, C 81 and C 82.

 of both Nitish and Bharti together. 

xxxix) The argument of the defence is

 that the testimony of Neelam Katara is full of

 improvements and thus cannot be relied upon.

 However, I find no force in the above

 arguments of defence. Perusal of the cross 186 examination of PW 30 Mrs. Neelam Katara

shows that she had answered the queries

made by the IO only. Regarding her

statement U/s 161 Cr.PC recorded on 14.03.2002

she stated that she answered only queries of

the IO and did not tell at what she knew.

However, she categorically stated that she had

told the IO the entire episode about the travel

of his son Nitish Katara and friends to

Bombay by Jet Airways on Bhawna's birthday.

She was confronted with her statement Ex.PW

30/DB dtd..14.3.2002, where this fact was not

recorded. Once she categorically stated that

she had made this statement to IO, therefore

now it was duty of the defence counsel to

have questioned the IO, whether she made any

such statement to him and if Yes, then why

he did not record it. However, in the present 187 case the IO was not cross examined by either

of the defence counsel to this effect. As such it

is presumed that she did make such statement

to the IO but was not recorded by him. My

this view is supported by an authority reported

in AIR 2000 (SC) page 1833., whereby it

was held that :­

 ''R
 eading Section 161 ( 2)

 Cr PC with the Explanation to Sec. 162

 Cr. PC, an omission in regard to be

 significant must depend upon whether the

 specific question, the answer to which is

 omitted was asked of the witness. It was

 held that in this case the Investigating

 Officer, was not asked whether he had

 put questions to a eye witness wife of one 188 of the deceased person asking for details

 of the injuries inflicted or of the person

 who had caused the injuries . It was held

 that though the witness had not given to

 the police particulars of who had caused

 which injury, she had not deviated from

 the actual occurrence and the manner it

 had happened. ''

 The aforesaid authority is fully

applicable to the facts and circumstances of the

present case as PW 30 Smt Neelam Katara had

answered only the queries put to her by the IO

which she had explained in her chief examination

and her detailed statement before the Court in

no manner deviated from what she had stated in

her complaint Ex.PW 1/1 and her statements

U/s 161 Cr PC. Ex. PW 30/DA and DB. xl) Moreover this fact is also admitted

 by Bharti Yadav in her testimony that she

 alongwith Nitish Katara, her sister Bhawna

 Yadav, her fiancee Deepak Yadav and one

 R. Yadav had gone to Bombay for celebration

 of the birthday of her sister Bhawna Yadav,

 therefore the testimony of PW 30 Neelam

 Katara to this effect stands corroborated and is

 true. xli) The other relevant portions of her

 testimony regarding which she was confronted

 with her previous statement are to the effect

 that as to whether she told the police that after

 MBA Nitish Katara s friends moved out and

 Nitish did not go out due to his fathers

 condition and as far as she knew that Bharti

 Yadav had not taken any job and their

 friendship then moved closer and they fell in 190 love with each other. However, she categorically

stated that she do not remember if she had

told the police the above facts but she

definitely told the police that Bharti and

Nitish had fallen in love with each other.

Again she was confronted with her statements

Ex.PW 30/ DA and DB to the effect that she

had told the police that the size of flower

bouquet sent by Bharti Yadav to Nitish

Katara was increasing specially on birthday of

Nitish in April 200l nor she could remember

if she had told the police that they were

arranging get together but she insisted that

she had told the police that they were in love

with each other. However, again it was the

duty of the defence counsel to have questioned

the IO as to whether Neelam Katara had told

this fact to him and if so why these were 191 not recorded by him in her statement. It was

only the IO who could answer as to why he

skipped these facts from her statement. It is

pertinent to mention that the witness explained

before the Court during the cross examination

by the defence counsel that she had made

statement to the police when her son was

missing and then again after two days of his

cremation, as such she was under tremendous

emotional pressure and tension so she could

not remember exactly what she had told to

the police, however she clarified that when she

deposed before the Court there was certainly

more clarity of vision in her mind and she

could think without emotion, she very fairly

admitted that she did not inform the police

that she could gather the intimacy and

closeness of her son Nitish with Bharti from her 192 mother's sense but she did not consider it

necessary to inform the police. She further

admitted that she did not tell the police

specifically that she learnt in Dec. 2001

about her son's intention to marry Bharti and

their being in love with each other. She

simply told about their intention to marry and

their love with each other without telling the

date, month or year when she came to know

about this fact. She admitted in her cross

examination that she do not remember if she

had told the IO that she was told by her son

that Bharti was waiting for an opportunate

time to talk to her father, her brother's

marriage was fixed for after elections and she

was waiting for when she would be able to

talk to her father and would be able to

convince him for this marriage. The contention 193 of the defence counsel that the said statement

of the witness is after thought and is

motivated to falsely attribute knowledge to

the accused persons about any such relationship

between the deceased Nitish Katara and

Bharti Yadav. It is submitted that if there

had been any such information available to

Neelam Katara she ought have mentioned

the same in the FIR or in her statements

U/s 161 Cr. PC. However, I do not agree with

the aforesaid contention of the defence counsel

as these facts which she had narrated in the

Court are only explanation/elaboration of what

she informed the police in the FIR and

statements U/s. 161 Cr. PC. Moreover FIR and

statement U/s 161 Cr.PC need not contain all

the details and it is sufficient if they contain

the broad features. It is held by the Hon'ble 194 Supreme Court in the authority reported in

 2006 (III) AD (Cri.) (SC) Page 241 that : Even if she did not state all these facts

to the police which she testified in her chief

examination, these cannot be termed as

improvements as she has only explained the

relationship between Bharti Singh and Nitish

Katara and has elaborated the contents of

the FIR and statements U/s. 161 Cr. PC. 

xliii) It is held in the authority reported

in 2000 (6) (Supreme) page 146 that : PP for State and the defence counsel in the

 course of his examination in chief and cross

 examination. xlv) Thus, the statement of PW 30 Mrs.

 Neelam Katara regarding the visit of Nitish

 Katara and Bharti Yadav to Mumbai on the

 occasion of the birthday of her sister

 Bhawna Yadav, Bharti s opening bank

 account with BNP Paribas Bank, Connaught

 Place, New Delhi, giving her residential address

 as ie of Nitish Katara ie 7 Chemsford

 Road, New Delhi which is based on documents

 and is admitted by Bharti Yadav during her

 cross examination by Spl. PP for State which 200 proves that PW 30 Neelam Katara is a truthful

 witness. Besides, since she has already

 explained the trauma she suffered on account

 of missing of her son and thereafter he was

 found murdered and was cremated two days

 before her second statement U/s. 161 Cr PC

 which was recorded on 14.3.02, it would be

 inhuman to expect her to give all the minute

 details of the relationship between Bharti

 Yadav and Nitish Katara to the police, more so,

 when her son went missing and she was

 expecting happening of untoward incident at

 the hands of the accused persons who were not

 enjoying good reputation in the society.

xlvi) It is pertinent to mention that

 both the defence counsel did not give any

 suggestion to Neelam Katara that her son

 did not disclose to her about his love affair 201 with Bharti Yadav and about their plan to

marry. She was also not suggested that her

son did not disclose to her in Dec. 2001 about

his intention and love for Bharti and he told

her that he was not in a hurry to marry as he

wanted to settle down first but Bharti's father

was looking a match for her and therefore

she may have to disclose her father about her

love. Similarly in the present case as referred

above no suggestion was given to PW 30

Neelam Katara as to why she should have

given false evidence against the accused

persons. Nor any suggestion was given to her

that the facts which she deposed in her chief

examination, she did not get the knowledge

of the same from her son Nitish Katara. In

the absence of any suggestions to this effect

that Nitish Katara her son never disclosed to 202 her about his love affair with Bharti Yadav,

their plans to marry and the knowledge of the

same to the accused persons, it is presumed

that the testimony of the witness is truthful

and is not denied by the defence. I find no

reason to disbelieve her testimony, particularly

when she had no motive to depose falsely

against accused persons. Rather in such type of

cases the complainant would always look for

the real culprit to be punished then the

innocents. The defence counsel have only

tried to contradict her statement before the

Court with her previous statements Ex.PW

30/DA and DB and has termed that her

testimony was full of improvements whereas it

has already been observed above that her

testimony was not full of improvements and

contradictions from her previous statements but 203 she had only given the details of the

 narrations extracted by the Spl PP for State

 and defence counsel in the course of

 examination in chief and cross examination. xlvii) Regarding the argument of the

 prosecution that no suggestions were given to

 PW 30 Mrs. Neelam Katara and other relevant

 witnesses with regard to the incriminating

 evidence against the accused persons the

 defence counsel has cited an authority reported

 in AIR 1969 Gujarat 69 Koli Trikam Jivraj

 and Anr Vs The State of Gujarat whereby it is

 held in para 18 of the judgment as follows : The aforesaid authority is fully

applicable to the facts and circumstances of the

present case . As there was no reason for PW 30

Neelam Katara, the complainant to falsely 208 implicate the accused persons by alleging falsely

that her son Nitish Katara and Bharti Yadav had

love affair which they wanted to culminate in

marriage and that this fact was known to the

accused persons who were averse to the

marriage. PW 30 has specifically stated in her

statement that in Dec 2001 her son Nitish Katara

had told her about his intention and love for

Bharti and their plan for marriage and that her

brothers were aware of their intention and they

were averse to her marriage with him. I find no

reason to disbelieve her aforesaid testimony. 

xlix) It is further clarified that the present

 case is based not on direct evidence but on the

 circumstantial evidence and as such in the

 absence of any direct evidence to the effect that

 both Nitish Katara and Bharti Yadav had love

 affair and this was not to the liking of the 209 accused persons, it could only be proved

through Nitish Katara who is no more alive,

thus it has to be inferred from the

circumstances. First such circumstance is as

to what transpired between Neelam Katara and

Nitish Katara when he was alive. Merely for

the reason Bharti did not support the

prosecution case does not lead to the inference

that Neelam Katara is a false witness,

particularly when she had no reason to falsely

implicate the accused persons nor the defence

has alleged any enmity between Neelam Katara

and the accused persons nor she was so

suggested during her cross examination.

Besides, Neelam Katara categorically stated in

her chief examination that since Nitish Katara

after college remained in Delhi due to his

father's condition and as far as she knew 210 Bharti had not taken up any job, which is

 brought them closer and they fell in love. She

 has also stated that the size of the flower

 bouquet being sent by Bharti was increasing so

 from her mother's sense she could gather the

 closeness and intimacy was increasing and that

 in Dec. 2001 Nitish told her their intention

 to marry and that father of Bharti was

 looking for a match for her and therefore she

 may have to disclose to her father about her

 love and their intention to marry and that her

 brothers knew about her intention but they

 were averse to their marriage with him.

 However, she was confident that she would be

 able to convince her father. l) The witness was not given any

 suggestion to the contrary by the defence in

 her cross examination. Moreover, the fact that 211 Nitish used to talk to his mother about their

 relationship is admitted even by Bharti in her

 cross examination by counsel for accused Vikas

 Yadav, wherein she stated as follows:­

 ''Once Nitish mentioned to me for the

reason I belonged to a particular family, his mother

was not comfortable with our relationship. She did

warn him to be friends with me, since my caste is

Yadav and Mr DP Yadav is my father" lii) It is further important to notice

that even the family of Bharti Yadav was well

acquainted with the affairs of the family of

Nitish Katara as deposed by Neelam Katara

during her chief examination. She deposed

to this effect as follows:­

 " From the police station I decided to go to

house of DP Yadav to meet mother of Bharti, I

requested police persons to show me the house, they 214 took me to the house and pointed out to house and then

left. I then went to the house and mother of Bharti

herself had opened the door and took me inside. I

confirmed from her and she told me that she was

mother of Bharti. She spoke to me courteously and

behaved with me nicely." She further stated as follows: She stated that Shivani Gaur was her school

 friend, who was also in IMT Ghaziabad but in

 a different course. After finishing her MBA she

 joined college of CAS and at present she was

 doing M. Sc from London. She stated that she 216 was friendly with Nitish Katara( deceased) . In

 answer to question of Spl PP for the State : She was specifically asked by Spl PP

for State:­

''Q: Did you make any statement to the police? She replied, 

Ans: One of the lady police official had conversation

with me but I did not know whether it was reduced into

writing.'' 218 This witness was declared hostile by the

prosecution as she was found resiling from her

previous statement dtd. 02/03/02. She was cross

examined at length by Spl. PP for State. 

lvii) During her cross examination by Spl.

PP for State she testified that except her

conversation with the lady police official there

was no interrogation of her by the police in

relation to the present case and whatever they

asked her she replied but she did not know if it

was reduced into writing. She voluntarily stated

that she did not read her statement. She

claimed that she had conversation only with the

lady police official after 3 /4 days marriage of

Shivani Gaur. When a specific question was put

to her by Spl. PP for State that her statement

was recorded by the police on 2.3.02, she

answered : lviii) She further claimed that she never

 had any conversation with Anil Somania, SO PS

 Kavi Nagar in connection with the present case

 and she had only conversation with the lady

 police official. She was confronted on material

 particulars with her statement Mark 38/A

 which was lateron exhibited as Ex.PW 35/AB

 in the statement of SI Anil Somania, IO of

 the case, who categorically stated that he had

 recorded the said statement at R 4/16, Raj

 Nagar Ghaziabad in the presence of lady SI

 Anju Bhadoria and Sh DP Yadav, father of Ms

 Bharti Yadav. The perusal of her testimony 220 further shows that she has admitted to have

informed the lady police official during in her

conversation that while studying in IMT

Ghaziabad she had become friendly with Nitish

Katara and she had also told her that Nitish

had Gypsy of Green colour though she denied

she did not tell the number of the vehicle to

the police since she did not know the same .

Perusal of the statement Ex PW 35/AB recorded

U/s. 161 Cr. PC shows that this fact finds

mention in the statement that she had become

friendly with Nitish Katara while studying in

IMT and Nitish used to come from Delhi in

Green Colour Gypsy, though in her statement

the number of the vehicle is also mentioned.

She denied that she had informed the lady

police official that their friendship developed

into love and she started liking Nitish Katara 221 from her heart and she was confronted with he

 statement Ex. PW 35/AB where these facts

 find mention. She also denied that she had

 informed the lady police official that after

 completing course in 2000 from IMT Ghaziabad

 they continued to be in touch with each other,

 got photographed and used to go out or that

 Nitish used to love her very much and he had

 a talk with his mother about their marriage or

 that on 14.2.02 on valentine day they had

 met, exchanged the gifts and also got

 photographed. She was confronted with her

 previous statement Ex.PW 35/AB to this effect

 where all these facts find mention.

lix) During cross examination by Spl PP for

 State she further denied to have informed the

 lady police official that on 15.2.02 there was

 ladies sangeet in the house of Shivani at 58 222 Ghaziabad where she alongwith her friends

 had taken part in dance or that in the

 marriage also she had danced with Nitish

 Katara. She was again confronted with her

 statement Ex.PW 35/AB where these facts find

 mention. lx) She further denied to have

 informed the lady police official that on 16.2.02

 Sukhdev Pehalwan r/o Dewaria who used to

 work in their office at Bulandshahar had also

 come alongwith his brothers Vikas and Vishal in

 the marriage of Shivani. She was again

 confronted with her statement Ex PW 35/AB

 where it is so mentioned. She voluntarily

 stated that she did not know any Sukhdev

 Pehalwan . lxi) She further denied that she informed

 the lady police official that at about 1.30 am 223 she came to know that her brothers Vikas and

 Vishal alongwith Sukhdev Pehalwan had called

 Nitish Katara and took him away and she

 become upset and she searched for Nitish

 Katara in Diamond Palace but she could not

 trace either his brothers and other accused

 Sukhdev Pehalwan or Nitish Katara .She was

 confronted with her statement Ex.PW 35/AB

 where it was found so recorded. lxii) She further denied to have informed the

 lady police official that her brothers and

 Sukhdev Pehalwan had come in the marriage of

 Shivani in Tata Safari which fact is found

 mentioned in her statement Ex. PW 35/AB. 

lxiii) She denied to have informed the lady

 police official that then at 2.15 am she called

 from her cell phone No. 9810038469 to land

 line Nos. 4717390 and 4714101 several times as 224 she was apprehending that accused persons may

 not cause any harm to Nitish. lxiv) She further denied to have informed

 the lady police official that accused Vikas and

 Vishal were not happy with her dance with

 Nitish and their being photographed together.

 She was confronted with her statement Ex. PW

 35/AB where these facts find mention.

lxv) She further denied that at 4 am she

 rang Bharat Diwakar on his cell No. 9810154964

 to enquire about Nitish as Bharat Diwakar had

 accompanied Nitish from Delhi to marriage and

 Bharat Diwakar called her twice around 6 am

 on her mobile. She also denied that she had

 informed the lady police official that PW 26

 Gaurav Gupta had called her from mobile No.

 9811220691 which belonged to PW Yash

 Tomar and he informed her that Nitish was not 225 traceable. She further denied to have informed

 the lady police official that on 17.2.02 at 7 am

 Bharat Diwakar called her from his cell phone

 and informed that there was no news about the

 whereabouts of Nitish. She was confronted with

 her previous statement Ex.PW 35/AB to this

 effect., where all these facts are mentioned. 

lxvi) She was further confronted with her

 statement Ex.PW 35/AB to the effect that she

 had purchased a wrist watch Esprit from

 Shopper Stop Ansal Plaze South Ex., New

 Delhi, with her own money and gifted the same

 to the deceased, where this fact is mentioned.

lxvii) She further denied that she had

 told the lady police official that at about 7.20

 am Smt Neelam Katara, mother of Nitish

 Katara called her and informed that Nitish had

 not reached home and again she had called her 226 at 8 am and asked her to give the telephone

 No. of her father. lxviii) During her cross examination by

 Spl PP for State the witness denied that

 during the days of incident she had e­ mail

 address [email protected] and she also

 denied that she had ever any talk with Nitin,

 the younger brother of Nitish on telephone

 prior to or after the incident and that she was

 not aware of the e­mail address of Nitin. The

 prosecution has claimed that Bharti Singh

 had sent approximately five e ­mails to Nitin

 during the period 19.02.02 to 24.02.02 relating

 to the incident as she was apprehending that

 she may not be able to call him on telephone.

 She further denied to have informed the lady

 police official that she had sent e ­mails from

 time to time to Nitin, the brother of the Nitish 227 since Nitish was not traceable, to this effect she

 was confronted with her statement Ex PW

 35/AB where this fact finds mention. 

lxix) She also denied to have stated

 to the lady police official that on 16.2.02 at

 about 3pm Nitish had called her from his

 mobile No. 9811283641 from her mobile No.

 9810038469. She further denied to have

 informed the lady police official that at about 2

 am when she came to know that her brothers

 Vishal and Vikas alongwith Sukhdev had taken

 away Nitish she tried to contact Nitish on his

 mobile phone but there was no response and

 that increased her tension and thereafter she

 called her residence phone Nos. 4713790 and

 4714101. She also denied to have informed the

 lady police official that fact of friendship with

 Nitish was known to her aunti ie the wife of 228 Sh Bharat Yadav, her maternal uncle and also

 to her Buaji whom she had already told that

 she was in love with Nitish and they had

 assured her that after the election of Vikas

 Yadav they would put a proposal of her

 marriage before her father. Again she was

 confronted with her statement Ex.PW 35/AB

 where these facts find mention. lxx) PW 38 Bharti Yadav had denied to

 have made any statement to the police, though

 she has admitted that she had conversation

 with one lady police official. To the contrary,

 the prosecution case is that her statement was

 recorded on 2.3.02 at her residence by SI Anil

 Somania accompanied by lady SI Anju

 Bhadoria in the presence of her father Sh DP

 Yadav. The statement has been exhibited

 during the testimony of PW 35 SI Anil 229 Somania as Ex. PW 35/AB. Admittedly the

witness Ms Bharti Yadav is the real sister of

accused Vikas Yadav and cousin sister of

accused Vishal Yadav. In this context it is to

be seen whether her testimony inspires any

credence or she intentionally did not support

the prosecution case with regard to the fact

that she had given a detailed statement to the

IO, in order to save her brothers. It is

pertinent to note that during her cross

examination by Spl PP for State Sh BS Joon

on 29.11.06 advocate Sh, SC Bhutan, counsel

for PW Bharti produced a photo copy of

the complaint addressed to Director General of

Police, Police Headquarters bearing the

signatures of Bharti, received in PHQ Lucknow

UP on 25.3.02 wherein she claimed that on

2.3.02 she made a brief statement to Times of 230 India Newspaper Correspondent which was

 printed under the title BHARTI GIVES

 BROTHER VIKAS A CLEAN CHIT''. As

 mentioned in the application a copy of the

 news clipping was enclosed alongwith the

 application for record and ready reference,

 (though no such clipping was filed on record

 alongwith the photocopy of the application by

 advocate Sh SC Bhutan, the counsel for PW

 38 Bharti). She further mentioned in the

 application that she had reiterated her views in

 the Star News on the said evening. In this

 application it is also mentioned:­ i) that on 2.3.02 she gave statement to the

 police in which she had dispelled all doubts

 about any alleged friendship with Nitish Katara, ii) that the press and television were

 maliciously propagating false rumours about 231 her and her family members, iii) that she had stated to the police on 2.3.02

 that her brother Vikas took out sometime to

 meet her at the wedding party of her friend

 and left at about 10.40 pm to 11 pm and did

 not return thereafter, iv) that she had also informed the police that

 Nitish Katara had left the wedding party about

 1 and half hour later. In this application she

 further claimed that police did not provide her

 with a copy of her statement nor did they

 read out her statement. Further that she was

 assured of a copy, yet till date they have not

 furnished her with the same. She requested in

 the application for supply of a copy of her

 statement dtd 2.3.02. It is further mentioned in

 the application that in the event the police

 interpolated her statement by introducing 232 anything contrary to the above she expected

 appropriate action against them. During her

 cross examination by Spl PP for State she

 admitted that there was no date on the said

 complaint Ex. PW 38/X1. She claimed that

 the complaint was sent by her to the various

 authorities but she again voluntarily stated that

 it was sent by her through her uncle Mr

 Bharat Singh, as such she was not aware if it

 was sent through registered post or was

 delivered by hand. It is pertinent to note that

 on the front of the complaint it is mentioned

 Ek Prati Prapat Ki, bearing the signature of

 someone with date 25.3.02. However, it is

 observed there is no stamp of any authority

 receiving the complaint nor there is any

 complaint number. lxxi) This witness stated that she did not 233 remember if any enquiry was made in respect

 of the said complaint by SSP Ghaziabad or

 DGP Lucknow. She also could not state if any

 such authority had called her to appear in

 person in this regard or she received any

 response to the aforesaid complaint in writing

 from any of the authorities . She claimed that

 she do not remember any of these facts.

lxxii) It is strange to note that she was

 aggrieved by the stand taken by the

 Investigating Agency and the media reports

 projecting her intimacy with the deceased in

 terms of her statement dtd. 2.3.02 Ex. PW

 35/AB but she did not remember as to what

 happened after the application was moved. It

 is not possible that she did not even

 remember if she was called by any such

 authority to appear before it in person as in 234 my opinion it is not a day to day affair for

 a person like PW Bharti to appear before the

 police and as such in my opinion she could

 not have forgotten such an important fact that

 too when it related to her personal life and

 was also effecting her as well as accused

 persons adversely. lxxiii) Her such conducts only shows that

 she being the sister of the accused persons or

 under family pressure to save her brothers was

 making a statement contrary to the truth. The aforesaid complaint was exhibited

during her cross examination as Ex. PW 38/X1.

The perusal of the aforesaid complaint clearly

establishes a fact that that Bharti had made a

statement to the police on 2.3.02 though in her

testimony before the Court she denied having

made any such statement. Ex.PW 38/X1 is the 235 document which the witness has herself produced

and as such the contents of the same cannot be

now denied by her. It is categorically mentioned

in this complaint that on 2.3.02 she gave

statement to the police and the police did not

provide her with a copy of her said statement.

lxxiv) Now it is to be seen from the

 other circumstances of the case as to whether

 witness Bharti Yadav made the statement

 Ex.PW 35/AB to the police or some other

 statement as claimed by her vide her complaint

 Ex. PW 38/X1. lxxv) It is pertinent to mention that this

 is a type written complaint and is only

 bearing the signatures of Bharti Yadav and

 that there is nothing on record to suggest that

 this complaint was actually delivered in the

 office of Director General of Police, PHQ 236 Lucknow UP and to the other authorities to

 whom the copy was sent. It is only her uncle

 Bharat Singh who could say that this

 application was delivered in the office of

 Director General of police PHQ Lucknow(UP)

 and other authorities. lxxvi) The witness has also failed to

 produce alongwith her complaint Ex. PW 38/X1

 any such brief statement made by her to the

 Times of India or in the Star News on 2.3.02

 in the evening. The double standard adopted

 by the witness while she deposed before the

 Court that she did not make any statement to

 the police and then she produced an application

 Ex. PW38/X1 before the Court that she had

 moved Director General of Police Lucknow UP

 for supply of the copy of the statement dtd

 2.3.02 itself proves that the witness was 237 intentionally trying to mislead the Court. 

lxxvii) The witness during her cross

 examination by Spl PP for State has admitted

 that one lady police official had conversation

 with her but she did not know whether it was

 recorded in writing. At the same time in Ex.

 PW 38/X1 she has claimed for supply of copy of

 her statement dtd. 2.3.02 which itself shows

 that her statement on that day was reduced

 into writing. It is the claim of the prosecution

 that on 2.3.02 the statement of PW 38

 Bharti was recorded by SI Anil Somania in

 the presence of lady SI Anju Bhadoria at her

 residence where her father Sh DP Yadav was

 also present. PW 38 Bharti has admitted the

 presence of lady police officer, though she has

 not given her name but it corroborates the case

 of the prosecution that on 2.3.02 her statement 238 was recorded by the police. lxxviii) It is further important to note that

 even assuming that Bharti had moved Director

 General of Police Lucknow UP for supply of

 copy and this application was received in PHQ

 Lucknow on 25.3.02 there is no explanation

 from the witness as to why there was so much

 of delay in approaching the PHQ for supply of

 the copy when she felt that whatever was

 projected by the prosecution or the media was

 never stated by her in her statement to the

 police. There is also nothing on record that

 this witness ever approached the IO of the case

 for supply of a copy of any such statement or

 to seek explanation as to why wrong facts were

 being published but to the contrary she

 straight away approached the Director General

 of Police, UP. At the same time there is also 239 nothing on record that after this application

was moved on 25.3.02 , though there is no such

proof that this application was actually

received in PHQ Lucknow, any action was taken

on her said application or it was pursued either

by her or by her uncle Sh Bharat Singh. The

witness has very cleverly tried to explain in

her cross examination by Spl. PP for State that

in para 2 of the complaint Ex. PW 38/X1 it is

mentioned that she gave statement to the police

and by this she meant conversation with the

police. If it was mere a conversation then it

cannot be termed as a recorded statement as

the witness in her chief examination nowhere

stated that her statement was recorded by the

police. On one hand she has claimed that she

did not make any statement to the police and

on the other hand she claimed copy of the 240 same vide complaint Ex.PW 38/X1 to Director

General of Police PHQ Lucknow UP. Hence

her statement to the effect that she did not

make any such statement to the police is false.

It is important to note that her statement

Ex.PW38/AB contains the details of her

relationship with Nitish and her intention to

marry and her knowledge that accused persons

had taken away Nitish with them from

Diamond Palace as they did not like her dance

with Nitish, which is incriminating against her

brothers the accused persons and it is only for

this reason she must have been pressurised to

withdraw from her said statement. No doubt

there is no other evidence on record that she

danced with Nitish but at the same time this

fact cannot be ignored that video cassette of

the marriage Ex.PW42/1 is edited from place to 241 place and even accused persons are not

appearing anywhere in the cassette. This shows

the presence of accused persons in the marriage

and dance sequence were purposely edited from

the cassette. The voluntary statement made by

PW11 Shivani Gaur in the end of her testimony

that she had read about a dance in the

newspaper that was much thrown about but

there was no such dance and there was nothing

of that sort, also appears to have been made

intentionally to divert the attention of the court

from this sequence. In the present case, the

investigation of the IO to this effect seems

faulty as he ought have seized the complete

video reel and photo reels immediately on

17/2/02 itself after the FIR was lodged by PW30

Neelam Katara to conduct the matter fairly. It is

further important to note that Bharti is the real 242 sister of accused Vikas Yadav and Shivani is her

 close friend, so her such statement indicates

 that it was motivated either by pressure or due

 to her close relation with the family of accused

 persons. lxxix) It is seen that in this complaint

 Ex PW 38/X1 she has nowhere mentioned that

 she had no relationship with Nitish or was not

 in deep love with him. Again to this effect

 she stated that in her aforesaid complaint

 Ex.PW 38/X1 para 2 she had mentioned that

 in her statement to the police she had dispelled

 all doubts. Her such statement again confirms

 and corroborates the prosecution's claim that

 her statement was recorded on 2.3.02. 

lxxx) Moreover during the cross examination

 of this witness no suggestion was given either

 by Sh SK Sharma, the counsel for accused 243 Vishal Yadav or by Sh. Mukesh Kalia, the then

 counsel for accused Vikas Yadav that no such

 statement of PW38 Bharti was recorded by

 him on 2.3.02. Besides, the IO categorically

 stated that the statement was recorded in the

 presence of Sh DP Yadav but it is strange to

 note that Mr DP Yadav was not produced in

 the witness box by the accused persons to

 disprove the statement of the IO to this effect.

lxxxi) I cannot loose sight of the fact that

 PW 38 Bharti Yadav is the real sister of

 accused Vikas Yadav and cousin sister of

 accused Vishal Yadav and daughter of Sh DP

 Yadav, a politician, the pressure upon her from

 her family members to save her brothers by any

 means was obvious. My such opinion is based

 on the conduct of the witness subsequent to the

 incident and during the court proceedings. It 244 is claimed by the prosecution that subsequent

to the incident the witness was sent to

Faridabad by her parents and this fact she did

not deny categorically during her cross

examination by Spl. PP for State which also

finds support from the testimony of PW 30

Neelam Katara who deposed in her chief

examination that while she was at the PS on

17.02.02 from 2.30 to 2.45 pm waiting for some

news of her son, she made a phone call to

Bharti Yadav from her cell and Bharti told her

that she was being taken to Faridabad at her

sister's house and nobody was telling her

anything and she should look for her son, such

time was crucial. In my opinion she was sent

away to Faridabad only for the reason to avoid

her interaction with the police. This also proves

that all her family members were aware of her 245 relationship with Nitish. If the relationship

 between the two was not intimate and they

 were only friends, there was no reason to send

 her away from the house. lxxxii) It is also admitted fact that

 thereafter she was sent to England (UK) on

 the pretext of further studies. But record

 speaks that she was sent there to keep her

 away from the court proceedings. She was

 summoned as a prosecution witness for

 29.4.03 but her process was received with the

 report that she had gone to England and her

 mother had refused to disclose her address.

 Hence, the Court intended to send summons

 for presence of parents of Bharti Yadav for

 disclosing her address but the counsel for the

 accused stated that address of Bharti Yadav

 will be informed to the Court by them. On the 246 next day ie 30.4.03 the address of Ms. Bharti

 Yadav was furnished by the counsel for the

 accused persons. Notice was ordered to be

 issued to Bharti Yadav through High

 Commission in London. lxxxiii) On 17.7.03 it is observed in the

 order sheet that Ms Bharti Yadav failed to

 appear despite issuance of summons by post as

 well as through High Commission in UK and

 she was also not produced in the Court by the

 accused persons despite giving them specific

 direction, she being the sister of one of the

 accused. As such bailable warrants were issued

 against her through Ministry of Home Affairs

 for 29.8.03. On that day an application for

 placing on record the fascimile message sent

 by Ms Bharti Yadav was moved and the

 same was kept on record. lxxxiv) It is observed in the order sheet

 dtd. 8.10.03 advocate Sh CK Sharma counsel

 for the uncle of Bharti Yadav produced a

 letter wherein the witness had stated that time

 was too short and she should be given at least

 two months to appear before the Court, as such

 dasti process of the witness was ordered to be

 given to advocate Sh CK Sharma for

 appearance of Bharti Yadav for 15.11.03. 

lxxxv) On 15.11.03 advocate Sh CK

 Sharma stated that Bharti was unable to attend

 the Court and that she had requested that the

 case should be fixed for the month of Jan and

 an application was moved for recording her

 evidence through Video Conferencing. The

 application was dismissed on 23.12.03 and

 direction was issued to the witness to appear

 before the Court on 27.2.04 . lxxxvi) On 27.2.04 advocate Sh CK

 Sharma again informed the Court that Bharti

 Singh was unable to appear before the Court

 because she required permission from the

 university for her absence from the university

 for the duration of the evidence. It was

 observed by my Ld. Predecessor in the order

 sheet that the witness was delaying the case

 unnecessarily on the one or the other pretext as

 sufficient time was granted to her for her

 appearance and the date was chosen by her

 counsel. The matter was again adjourned for

 appearance of Ms Bharti Yadav for 21.4.04 ,

 the date chosen by Sh CK Sharma, appearing

 for the witness. On that day it was made clear

 that in case she would not appear on 21.4.04

 NBW will be issued against her. lxxxvii) On 21.4.04 again Ms. Bharti Yadav 249 failed to appear before the Court and bailable

 warrants as well as notice U/s 350 Cr PC

 issued against her. On that day Sh. Bharat

 Singh, maternal uncle of Ms Bharti Yadav was

 also present before the Court and gave an

 undertaking to produce her on 24.5.04 , hence

 instead of warrants summons were ordered to

 be issued to her through the Sec. Ministry of

 External Affairs. lxxxviii) On 24.5.04 again the witness did

 not appear and it was reported by Sh.

 Ramesh Kumar US (Legal) Ministry of Home

 Affair North Block New Delhi that the address

 of Ms Bharti was found to be incorrect. Sh

 Bharat Singh, maternal uncle of Ms Bharti

 Yadav moved an application that Bharti Yadav

 had received injures on her leg and back due

 to fall. The application was supported by the 250 medical certificate issued by her Harley Street,

 Health Care Clinic, London and it was sent

 for verification. Sh Bharat Singh was directed

 to furnish the correct address of hospital and of

 the residence of Ms Bharti Yadav till 27.5.04. 

lxxxix) On 27.5.04 Mr Bharat Singh

 furnished the communication address of Ms

 Bharti Yadav and not her residential address.

 He was directed to furnish her residential

 address within 48 hours and he was also

 directed to produce Ms Bharti Yadav on 21.7.04

 under all probabilities. xc) Sh Bharat Singh did not furnish the

 address of Bharti Yadav within 48 hours as

 directed by the Court vide order dtd. 27.5.04

 and the address was furnished on 5.6.04. On 21.7.04 Under Secretary to the

Govt. of India was present and had moved an 251 application that UK Home Office had regretted to

inform that they could not serve the summons

due to insufficient address and that they were

trying to locate her new address. On the same

day medical certificate was filed by advocate

Sh CK Sharma that Ms Bharti Yadav needed

six week more rest. As such the Court directed

her to appear on 27/9/04 and in case of failure

NBW were ordered to be issued for 27/10/04. On

27/9/04 the witness did not appear and an

application for stay of NBW was moved . On

7/10/04 Sh Bharat Singh,the uncle of Ms Bharti

Yadav furnished a bond before the Court for her

appearance and prayed for stay of warrants vide

application,which was dismissed on 25/10/04 and

it was ordered that NBW issued against her be

executed for 25/11/04. However, no report was

received on the warrants. Fresh warrants were 252 issued against her for 18/1/05 but the warrants

could not be executed for want of time. It is

also observed in the order dtd. 27/1/05 when the

PP Sh KK Singh informed the Court that he had

a talk with Ms Bharti Yadav and she told him

that she was not interested to come and depose

as a witness in the case, which clearly indicates

the intention of the witness to defy the order of

the Court. xci) Finally, on 30/3/05, the prosecution

dropped her as a witness, which order was

lateron set aside by the Hon'ble High Court of

Delhi vide order dtd. 03/10/05, wherein it was

observed that Ms Bharti Yadav is an essential

and important witness in the prosecution's case.

In view of the aforesaid order of the Hon'ble

High Court of Delhi, fresh NBW was issued

against Ms Bharti Yadav vide order dtd. 7/3/06 253 at her last known residential address 32

Swallow Cort, Carleton Gate, Admiral Walk

London, Post Code W­TX­UK for 27/04/06 and

thereafter the time was extended till 11/5/06 for

execution of warrants as per the request from

Ministry of Home Affairs. On 11/5/06, the report

was received from the Ministry of Home Affairs

to the effect that as per the UK Central Authority

she was not residing at the address given above

and her last known address was 6 0,

Frederick Road, High Field, Leicester, LE­5 , 3HE.''

 Thereafter on 22/5/06, fresh NBW

were issued against the witness at both the

addresses , referred above , for 17/7/06, which was

again received back unexecuted . Xcii) In the meantime efforts were made

by the Court to trace out the present

whereabouts of the witness with the assistance of 254 her father Sh DP Yadav but he failed to assist the

Court in any manner. There is ample material on

record against the witness that though she was

aware of the proceedings pending before this

Court where her presence was required as a

witness but she avoided appearance in the Court

on one or the other pretext and finally was not

even traceable at her last known addresses,

leaving no option with the prosecution except to

move the application u/s 82 Cr.PC. The efforts of

the witness to halt the proceedings or to further

delay the proceeding did not come to an end as

even when the application u/s 82 Cr. PC was

pending for orders, on 22/7/06 a FAX was

received from the witness Ms Bharti Yadav for

her examination through Video conferencing or

on commission which she was already aware that

her plea had been rejected by the trial Court and 255 thereafter by the Hon ble High Court of Delhi. It

was another effort on the part of the witness to

delay the proceedings. xciii) The record speaks that the Court

 had always given assurance to the prosecution

 as well as to the accused Vikas Yadav who is

 the brother of Ms Bharti Yadav that there will

 be no harassment to the witness at the hands

 of the media or otherwise and all arrangements

 for her safety and security would be made but

 despite all the efforts of the Court she chose

 to stay away and delayed the proceedings

 substantially. Finally, the proclamation U/s

 82 Cr PC be issued against her , which was

 challenged before the Hon'ble High Court by

 the witness , however with the due indulgence

 of the Hon'ble High Court the witness agreed

 to appear before the Court and her statement 256 was recorded on 29.11.2006 and 30.11.2006.

xciv) The court record speaks itself that

 there were frequent adjournments on the part

 of Ms Bharti Yadav on frivolous ground.

 Even the correct address of Ms Bharti Yadav

 was not furnished on record and at one time

 she spoke to earlier Spl. PP for State Sh. KK

 Singh and told him she was not interested to

 come to Court, which shows that either she had

 no sanctity for law, no respect for judicial

 system or was under the influence of her

 family, the chances of latter are more since

 she is the real sister of accused Vikas

 Yadav and they would never like to depose

 against them in support of the prosecution.

 The witness being the sister of the accused

 persons was under the influence of the family

 which is apparent from the record as the 257 incorrect address of the witness was furnished

 on record by her family only so as to avoid

 her service and consequential appearance before

 the Court. xcv) I also find from the record there

 was reluctance on the part of Sh Bharat Singh,

 the maternal uncle of Ms Bharti Yadav in

 furnishing the correct residential address of the

 Ms Bharti Yadav and instead he produced on

 record her communication address, which itself

 shows that they never wanted that the court

 should have direct access to the witness.

 Though she sent a fascimile message to the

 Court through her material uncle and lateron a

 FAX reflecting her intention to appear as a

 witness before the Court , however, her conduct

 shows that these fascimile message and FAX

 were sent to the Court to avoid any harsh 258 action against her. xcvi) The entire court record shows

 that Ms Bharti Yadav was prevented from

 appearance before the Court which not only

 resulted in delay of the proceedings but also

 caused lots of unpleasantness in the court

 proceedings and delayed justice.

xcvii) Such conduct of the witness

 also has bearing upon her testimony in the

 Court where she denied recording of her

 statement Ex. PW 35/AB by the police but

 her own complaint Ex. PW 38/X1 proved it on

 record that she had made statement such to the

 police on 2.3.02. This shows that the witness

 was under pressure and after she had made

 the statement favourable to the prosecution

 before the police on 2.3.02, she was forced to

 retract from the statement under family 259 pressure and out of the blue the application

Ex.PW 38/X1 was produced on the record by

Sh. SC Bhutan, her counsel during her cross

examination by Spl PP for State. It is important

to note that this application was not brought

to the notice of SI Anil Somania PW 35

during his cross examination by either of the

defence counsel nor he was suggested that he

had not recorded any statement of Ms Bharti

Yadav on 2.3.02. The statement Ex. PW 35/AB

of Ms Bharti Yadav recorded by the police on

2.3.02 clearly shows that there was love affair

between the two and they intended to marry

and this fact was also known to her Mami and

Bua. Even assuming it otherwise that Bharti

Yadav did not make any such statement before

the police, there is ample evidence on record to

prove the relationship between Bharti Yadav 260 and deceased Nitish Katara. Ms. Bharti

Yadav herself has admitted writing of letters

and greeting cards Ex.PW 30/1 and 2 and Ex.

PW 30/C5 to C 15, Ex.PW30/ C 18 to C 73,

Ex.PW 30/ C 75 to C78 and Ex.PW 30/ C 83.

These documents are self explanatory that the

relationship between the two was not mere

friendship but had blossomed into love affair

and they intended to marry. These documents

also corroborate the statement of PW 30 Mrs

Neelam Katara, the mother of Nitish Katara

( deceased) that both Ms. Bharti Yadav and

Nitish Katara had love affair and wanted to

marry each other. The letters particularly

Ex. PW 30/C1 and Ex.PW30/C 4 and the

greeting cards particularly the valentine album

Ex. PW 30/C 79 speaks of their intimate

relationship. It was only for Ms Bharti Yadav 261 to explain as to why she wrote such type of

letter Ex. PW 30/C4 that too at 2.30/3 am from

Shimla if it was not a love affair between the

two. However, no answer has come from her

to this effect. Her plight is understandable as

on one hand it was her past who was no more

alive and on the other hand there were her

two brothers behind the bar. She must be

under tremendous pressure from her family to

save her brothers by any means and thus

tried to make very balanced statement before

the Court by denying her intimate relationship

with the deceased on one hand and by

admitting her writings to the deceased

reflecting their relationship on the other hand.

The pressure upon the witness is apparent

from the Court record as after the incident she

was sent to Faridabad, which fact she did not 262 deny during her cross examination

categorically. Besides, when Mrs. Neelam

Katara visited her house she told the mother

of Bharti Yadav that Bharti Yadav was being

sent to Faridabad and on this she was startled

that Mrs. Neelam Katara was having this

information and then she told her that Bharti

Yadav was not feeling easy:­ Mann Nahi

Lag Raha Tha. So they were sending Bharti

Yadav to Faridabad to her sister's house. No

suggestion to the contrary was given by the

defence in her cross examination. It is also

on record that thereafter she was sent to UK

on the pretext of further studies. Her conduct

that earlier she made a statement before the

police on 2.3.02 but lateron she retracted the

same before media and moved an application

Ex PW 38/X1 to Director General of Police UP 263 seeking copy of her statement dtd. 2.3.02 to say

 that her statement was interpolated by the

 police only speaks volumes of pressure upon

 her. However, at the same time I feel that by

 her such conduct she did not do justice to the

 soul of the deceased without whom she had

 claimed she could not survive. xcviii) Photographs Ex PW 11/1 to 4 in which

 Bharti is appearing alongwith Nitish Katara

 ( deceased) are also admitted by her. She

 could not admit or deny that photographs

 Ex.PW 11/2 and Ex. PW 11/4 were clicked in

 Fatehpuri Sikri and photograph Ex PW 11/1

 was clicked at Jim Corbret Park. She testified

 that she do not remember if these photographs

 were clicked in Fatehpur Sikri or Jim Corbret

 park. She did not deny that she never visited

 Fatehpuri Sikri or Jim Corbret Park alongwith 264 the deceased but simply stated that she did

 not remember if these were clicked at these

 places. Her said statement leads to the inference

 that she had visited the aforesaid places with

 the deceased but she did not remember if these

 two photographs were clicked there. 

xcix) The prosecution has claimed that

 Bharti Yadav alongwith Nitish Katara, her sister

 Bhawna Yadav and one Deepak Yadav had

 gone to Mumbai on 24/08/2000 to celebrate

 the birthday of Bhawna Yadav. This fact is also

 not denied by Bharti Yadav during the course

 of her testimony and is also proved on record

 through the testimony of PW 30 Smt Neelam

 Katara who testified that in August 2000 she

 had gone on a business trip to Bombay and

 was to return to Delhi on 24.8.00 by Rajdhani

 Express. Her meeting was delayed so she had 265 to change her plan and decided to travel by Jet

Airways. In order to inform her son Nitish

Katara about change of her plan she called

him on phone and then came to know that

he too was in Bombay . He told her that he

had come to Bombay at the birthday function

of Bhawna . He also told her that he would be

going back to Delhi by Jet Airways Flight by

which Neelam Katara had to go back. He met

her at the airport and pointed out towards his

friends namely Bharti Yadav, Bhawna Yadav,

Deepak and two others, who were also at the

airport. Though this witness was cross

examined at length by the counsel for both

the accused in this regard. However, they

failed to shatter her testimony in any manner

to this effect, besides, as referred above , PW

38 Bharti Yadav admitted in her testimony 266 that on 24.8.2000 she had gone to Bombay

 alongwith a group of friends to celebrate the

 birthday of her sister Bhawan through Jet

 Airways and she stated '' May be Nitish was

 also there . Lateron she admitted the

 suggestion of Spl PP for State that Bhawna

 Yadav, Deepak Yadav, R. Yadav and Nitish

 Katara had all gone to Mumbai and they came

 back to Delhi on the same evening. It is

 pertinent to note that out of the common

 friends of Bharti Yadav namely Bharat Diwakar,

 Gaurav Gupta, Shivani, Gagan and Pooja etc

 only Nitish Katara had accompanied her to

 Mumbai to celebrate the birthday of her sister

 which proves how close Ms Bharti Yadav was

 to Nitish Katara. c) The other important evidence/

 circumstance in this regard is the opening of 267 bank account No. 090 65103027025 47 with BNP

Paribas Bank, Connaught Place, New Delhi by

Ms. Bharti Yadav with the address of Nitish

Katara i e 7 Chemsford Road New Delhi. PW

38 Bharti Yadav has admitted in her cross

examination by Spl PP for State that she had

opened bank account with BNP Paribas Bank,

Connaught Place New Delhi but she stated

that do not remember the date, month and

year when she opened the same. She

admitted that therein she had given her

residential address as of Nitish Katara but now

she do not remember the address which she

had given in her bank account. She further

stated that she do not remember the address of

Nitish Katara at that time . She could not

admit or deny that the address of Nitish Katara

was 7 Chemsford Club, New Delhi. Perusal of 268 the record shows that she had moved an

application Mark PW 30/ Mark A on 01.03.2002

for change of address in her account from 7

Chemsford Road, New Delhi to some other

address but she could not admit or deny if she

changed her address to B­14 Gulmohar Park,

New Delhi. She admitted that at that point of

time her sister Bhawna had office at B 14

Gulmohar Park, New Delhi. The statement of

Ms. Bharti Yadav to the effect that she did

not remember if she had given address of

Nitish Katara in her bank account or it was

7 Chemsford Road again shows her attitude

that she never wanted to speak the truth. It

cannot be imagined that she had opened bank

account with the address of Nitish Katara and

she was too close to him but she failed to

remember his address. What is important, is 269 not that she forgot his address but the

 opening of bank account with his address

 when she had two addresses at Delhi at B

 14 Gulmohar Park and 15 Balwant Rai Lane

 and another address at Ghaziabad but she

 chose to give the address of Nitish Katara for

 opening the bank account. This speaks of

 nothing else but about her intimacy with

 Nitish Katara ( deceased). ci) The prosecution has also produced

 PW 40 Sh. Shivendra Tiwari, Asstt. Manager,

 HDFC Bank, Surya Kiran Branch, Connaught

 Place, who produced the record pertaining to

 account No. 0031000144111 in the name of Nitish

 Katara He stated that it was a salary account .

 He also produced the photocopy of the cheque

 Np. 239166 dtd 15.9.01 in favour of Bharti

 Singh which was received from BNP Paribas 270 Bank Barakhamba Road New Delhi for

 clearance and it was cleared on 18.9.2001. He

 produced the original computerised print Ex PW

 40/A, the photocopy of the cheque Ex.PW

 40/B. Prosecution has relied upon the

 account opening form Ex. PW 38/X2 whereby

 Bharti Yadav opened her bank account with

 BNP Paribas Bank and during cross

 examination she admitted this account opening

 form which is running into three page and is

 bearing her photograph at page 3. As per the

 said record in the account opening form the

 account was opened with a sum of Rs. 10,000/­

 by way of cheque No 239166 drawn on HFC

 Bank Ltd. KG Marg, which pertains to the

 account No. 0031000144111 of Nitish Katara.

cii) The prosecution has also relied

 upon the statement of PW 39 Nitin katara 271 with regard to the relationship between Bharti

Yadav and Nitish Katara who testified that

Nitish had told him they were madly in love

with each other and wanted to get married.

He further stated that Nitish had also told him

that said relationship was not approved by

her brothers Vishal Yadav and Vikas Yadav

and even her father Sh. DP Yadav was not

in favour of the aforesaid relationship but she

was still hopeful that Sh DP Yadav would

approve this relationship in the end. The

aforesaid testimony of the witness finds

corroboration from the letter Ex PW 30/C4

written by Bharti Yadav from Shimla at mid

night wherein she has categorically

mentioned that she was in love with him

more than the words can express and that she

wanted to be with him always in her life. She 272 also mentioned therein that she had never

 prayed so much for anything in her life as she

 prayed for him and to be with him and to be

 in his arms. At the same time she mentioned

 on page 2 of the letter Sabko happy

 rakhna hai haina . Then on the last page

 she has written ­ 

 ''
 Love you Chimpu, you are my life,

my love, cannot live with you, life does not have any

meaning without you, kabhi saath matt leave karna,

varna survive nai kar paungi... promise karo please...

that you will always with me, for me, will never betry

or cheat me ... I won't be able to take it ... sab mujhe

darate hai samjhate hai but I trust you. Mere trust

ko kabhi tootney matt dena." ciii) During his cross examination PW 39 273 Nitin Katara testified that he did indicate to the

police that his brother Nitish Katara was madly

in love with each other. He was confronted

with his statement Ex.PW 9/DA where it is only

mentioned that both were close friends. The

argument of the defence counsel is that the

statement of PW 39 Nitin Katara before the

Court was full of improvements and after

thought as in his earlier statement he did not

depose about the love affair between the two

and deposed so for the fist time in the Court,

however I do not agree with the aforesaid

contention of the defence counsel since the

witness categorically stated that he indicated

to the police that both were madly in love with

each other and once it was not found recorded in

his statement U/s. 161 Cr PC, it was the duty of

the defence counsel to question the IO in this 274 regard as to whether PW 39 Nitin Katara had

made any such statement to him and if so, why it

was not recorded in his statement U /s. 161

Cr PC. Besides, it is pertinent to mention that

Nitin Katara himself has given an explanation

before the Court that when he made statement to

the police at that time his brother was missing

and death was not confirmed, as such he was

worried and upset, hence he did not mention

certain details to the police. It is absolutely

natural conduct of the witness as in such

circumstances any other normal human being

would have behaved in the similar manner. Thus

the discrepancy pointed out by the defence

counsel is of no consequence, in the

circumstances of the present case. Moreover, in

the entire cross examination by the counsel for

the accused persons not a single suggestion was 275 given to Nitin that he was never informed by

the deceased about his love affair with Ms. Bharti

Yadav or that Nitish Katara did not disclose to

him that their relationship was not approved

by her brothers and father. The testimony of

this witness not only proves that there was love

affair between Nitish katara and Ms. Bharti

Yadav but also that this fact was known to

both the accused and even their father Sh DP

Yadav. Besides, the letter Ex.PW 30/C4 clearly

indicates the knowledge of the family of Ms.

Bharti Yadav about her affair with the deceased

as she has categorically mentioned therein :­

 ''Sab mujhe darate hai , samajhate hai

but i trust u mera trust ko Kabhi tootnay matt dena" . 

civ)It is further important to note that Indian

 society is a male dominated society and each 276 act particularly of younger sisters is under

observation of the elder brothers and it cannot

be lost sight of the fact that deceased had

accompanied Bharti Yadav to Mumbai for

celebration of the birthday of her sister

Bhawna Yadav and at that time no other close

friends of Bharti other than Nitish Katara

accompanied them and it cannot be presumed

that her elder brother Vikas Yadav was not

aware of this fact that his sister Bhawna Yadav

had gone to Mumbai to celebrate her birthday

alongwith her fiance Deepak, sister Bharti Yadav

and her friend Nitish Katara and one R. Yadav.

It also cannot be presumed that accused Vikas

Yadav was so unconcerned with the

movements of his sisters, particularly on the

occasion of the birthday of Bhawna Yadav,

though in his statement U/s 313 Cr PC in 277 answer to question No. 215 to this effect he

 stated that he did not know as he was busy

 and engrossed at his factory at Panipat at that

 time. cv) Similarly the photographs Ex.PW

 11/2 & 4 which were found to be clicked at

 Fatehpuri Sikri and photograph Ex.PW 11/1

 which was clicked at Jim Corbret Park proves

 on record that Bharti Yadav had accompanied

 the deceased to Fatehpuri Sikri and the Jim

 Corbret Park, though the details of such visit

 are not available on record, however it cannot

 be believed that the male members of her

 family were not aware of her such outings

 alongwith the deceased. The conduct of the

 Bharti Yadav in going out of Ghaziabad

 alongwith Nitish Katara to a far off place with

 the deceased cannot be without knowledge of 278 family members, particularly, the male members.

One cannot loose sight of the bitter truth that

our Indian society is a male dominated society

and howsoever educated a family may be with

whatever status, still the brothers in the normal

course of events keep an eye on the activities

of their sisters and this phenomenon cannot be

interpreted in a different manner qua the

accused persons. It is quite likely that Ms.

Bharti Yadav is a strong headed woman/

characteristics of her reflects from her letters

and greeting cards sent to the deceased and

she might have refused to be under the control

of her brothers. The arguments of the defence

counsel that both the accused persons were not

aware of their relationship or even did not

know Nitish Katara is of no consequence. I am

of the view that from the statement of PW 279 30 Mrs. Neelam Katara, PW 39 Nitin Katara

 and from the Bharti's letters , it is proved that

 Ms. Bharti Yadav and Nitish Katara

 ( deceased) had love affair and wanted to

 marry and the accused persons had knowledge

 of this and were averse to their relationship. 

cvi) Besides, as per the statement Ex.PW

 35/AB dtd. 02.03.2002 the witness Bharti Yadav

 had categorically mentioned therein that her

 affair was known to her Bua and Mami and

 they were to talk to her father for their

 marriage after the election of Vikas Yadav. 

cvii) The prosecution has further

 relied upon the call record of mobile No.

 9811283641 belonging to Nitish Katara and

 mobile No. 9810038469 of Bharti Yadav. During

 her cross examination she was asked by Spl PP

 for State that on 16.2.02 she had received 280 any call from Nitish at about 3:42 pm on her

cell phone No. 9810038469, however she denied

the suggestion and voluntarily sated that she

was not possessing any mobile at the time and

was not aware of to whom this cell phone

number belonged. She stated that she was not

aware of that this mobile connection was in the

name of her sister Bhawna Yadav and that

she was using the said telephone connection.

She has gone to the extent that she was not

even sure if her sister Bhawna Yadav had any

cell phone during those days and even if she

had any mobile she did not know its number.

It is strange to notice the behaviour of this

witness that she was not aware of if her sister

was possessing any mobile during those days or

the number of the said mobile was 9810038469.

It is not the case of the prosecution or even of 281 the accused persons that Bhawna Yadav was

friendly with Nitish or used to receive from or

make calls from mobile number No.

9810038469 to Nitish Katara. She has even

gone to the extent of saying that she did not

remember if the landline telephone Numbers

4713790 and 4714101 were installed at her

residence at Ghaziabad. However, it has

already proved on record vide the testimony of

PW 43 SP Singh, Commercial Officer, BSNL,

Ghaziabad, UP that these two landline numbers

were installed at the address a R ­4/16 New

Raj Nagar, Ghaziabad, the house of Sh DP

Yadav. The call record Ex. PW 21/1 speaks

there are about 30 calls received on the mobile

phone of Nitish Katara from the landline

telephones installed at the residence of Bharti

Yadav at Ghaziabad during the period 7/1/2002 282 to 17/2/02. The mobile phone if was not used

 by Ms Bharti then whether it was Bhawna

 Yadav who was using this mobile and remained

 in touch with Nitish Katara, the answer is

 'NO' as Bhawna Yadav not stated so during

 her testimony. It was within the special

 knowledge of Bhawna and Bharti only as to

 who was using this mobile phone but for the

 obvious reason that they are related to the

 accused persons did not depose the truth before

 the Court. cviii) It is further pertinent to

 mention that PW 25 Bharat Diwakar testified

 during his chief examination that at that time

 his mobile No. was 9810154964, mobile No. of

 Nitish Katara was 9811283641. He further

 testified that mobile No. 9810038469 was the

 mobile phone of Bharti Singh. cix) He testified that he had reached

 at 7 Chemsford Road, New Delhi, around 3 am

 on 17.2.02 and thereafter he received a call from

 Bharti on his cell phone in the morning. He

 stated that she made 2 /3 calls to him and

 she was asking ''Where is Nitish''. He stated

 that he had received the calls from Bharti after

 6/6:30 am and he had told her that there was

 nothing known about the whereabouts of Nitish

 and his cell phone was off. He further stated

 that as per the call record Ex. PW 22/2 he had

 received call at about 4:06am from Bharti on

 his mobile which he did not remember as he

 must have been in sleep. The said call lasted

 for 21 seconds. cx) During cross examination of this

 witness no suggestion by counsel for the

 accused persons that Bharti Yadav was not 284 possessing mobile phone No. 9810038469 or she

 did not make any call to Bharat Diwakar in the

 morning of 17.2.02. Thus from the testimony of

 Bharat Diwakar it stands proved that though

 mobile No. 9810038469 was registered in the

 name of Bhawan Yadav but it was being used

 by Bharti as her own phone. As such the

 argument of the defence counsel that the

 prosecution has failed to prove on record that

 mobile No. 9810038469 which was in the

 name of Bhawna Yadav and was never used by

 Bharti Yadav is of no consequence.

cxi) It is further important to note that

 PW 30 Smt Neelam Katara testified during in

 chief examination that she took Bharti's cell No.

 from Bharat and called her twice on that

 morning ie 17.2.02 around 7/7.30 am from

 landline of her house. She gave the landline 285 Nos. installed at her house as 3366629 and

 3747555. The call record shows that on the

 mobile No. 9810038469 12 calls were made

 from the landline numbers installed at the

 house of Neelam Katara on 17.02.02 and from

 the mobile of Neelam Katara bearing No.

 9810206299 one call at 14:08hour and Bharti

 made one call at 20:11 hours on 17.02.02 to

 Neelam Katara. However, no suggestion was

 given to PW30 Smt Neelam Katara that she did

 not have any telephonic conversation with

 Bharti Yadav on 17.2.02. This evidence of

 PW 30 also proves that mobile No. 9810038469

 was in possession of Bharti Yadav. 

cxii) So far PW 39 Nitin Katara, the

 brother of deceased Nitish Katara is concerned

 who as per his testimony was in Mumbai on

 16.2.02 and came back to Puna on 17.2.02 when 286 he came to know later in the evening on

telephone from some relatives from his house

that his brother Nitish Katara was kidnapped on

the intervening night of 16­17/2/02 by the

accused persons / brothers of Bharti Yadav

so he immediately rang up Bharti Yadav on her

mobile No. 9810038469 from his mobile No.

9822288216. This fact stands corroborated

from the call record Ex. PW 22/2 which shows

that Nitin had called from his mobile on the

mobile No. 9810038469 at 19:43 hours and 19: cxiii) The cross examination of PW 39

 Nitin Katara shows that he was not given any

 suggestion by the counsel for both the accused

 that the mobile No. 9810038469 was not used

 by Bharti Yadav or he did not make any call to

 or receive any call from Bharti on the aforesaid

 number or that this phone was in exclusive

 possession of Bhawan Yadav. accused Vikas Yadav. It is this witness in whose 289 name the mobile No. 9810038469 stands

registered which as per the prosecution was

in possession of Ms Bharti Yadav and was used

by her for receiving calls from or making

calls to Nitish Katara ( deceased), Smt Neelam

Katara, the mother of the deceased, Sh Nitin

Katara, brother of the deceased, and Bharat

Diwakar, the common friend of Ms Bharti and

Nitish Katara ( deceased). She testified that

she attended the marriage of Shivani on 16.2.02

alongwith her husband at Ghaziabad. She

stated that she had come to Ghaziabad from

her matrimonial house 3/ 4 days prior to the

marriage of Shivani Gaur. She stated that at

that time she was possessing mobile bearing

connection No. 9810038469. She stated that this

phone was registered in her name at the

address R­4/32 Ghaziabad UP which belongs to 290 her father. She stated that she might have

 spoken to Nitish Katara from the mobile No

 9810038469 on 14.2.02 but she denied any

 meeting with Nitish Katara in the area of

 Connaught Place on 14.2.02. She was specially

 put a question as follows: 17.2.02 from Faridabad . She stated that she 291 had called her from Faridabad but she did not

receive any call on her mobile and also did not

make any call from her mobile to Bharat Diwakar

on 16/17.2.02 between 4 am to 10:38 pm.

cxv) So far the aforesaid testimony of

 PW42 concerned, it is important to note, as referred above that PW 25 Bharat Diwakar

 and PW 39 Nitin both testified that mobile

 No. 9810038469 belonged to Ms Bharti Yadav

 and there was no cross examination of both

 these witness in this regard. It appears that

 Bhawna Yadav's testimony to the effect that

 mobile No. 9810038460 was being used by her

 only and not by Bharti Yadav was only to give

 shelter to Ms Bharti Yadav that she was never

 in touch with Nitish Katara when he was alive

 or his mother, brother or friend Bharat

 Diwakar of the deceased from this mobile in 292 any manner before and after the incident.

cxvi) Besides, it is the case of the

 prosecution that after the incident Neelam

 Katara made a telephone call to Bharti Yadav

 from the PS on her cell on 17.2.02 and she told

 her that she was being taken to Faridabad to

 her sister's house and nobody was telling her

 anything and she should look for her son as

 the time was crucial. The record record of

 Bharti Yadav Ex.PW 22/2 confirms that a call

 was made from mobile No. 9810206299 of

 Neelam Katara at 14:08 hours on 17.2.02 on the

 mobile No. 9810038469 and even Ms Bharti

 Yadav in her testimony has not denied the fact

 that she was not being sent to Faridabad which

 shows that to cover up the entire episode

 Bhawna Yadav made a false statement to the

 effect that she had called once Neelam Katara 293 on the evening of 17.2.02. She has very cleverly

stated that the mobile was with the driver and

he had received the calls of Neelam Katara.

The call record shows that 14 calls were made

from the mobile and landline number of

Neelam Katara on the mobile No. 9810038469

on 17.2.02. If the mobile phone was never used

by Bharti Yadav and always remained in

possession of Bhawna Yadav there was no

reason for the witnesses to tell lie that they

had called Bharti Yadav on the said mobile or

vice versa Bharti Yadav had called them from

the said mobile. It is further pertinent to

mention that this witness has also failed to

give the name of the driver in whose custody if

at all the said phone remained as but for his

detailed particulars no enquiry could be made

from him for corroboration of the statement of 294 Bhawna Yadav. The name and address of the

 driver was only with Bhawna Yadav and she

 did not give these particulars for the reason

 that she never wanted to be checked on this

 account. cxvii) Besides, it is important to note that

 PW Bharti Yadav has denied that she was

 possessing any mobile at any time and Bhawna

 Yadav has claimed that her mobile bearing

 No. 9810038469 was only used by her but at

 the relevant time it was with her driver is also

 belied by the video cassette Ex. PW 42/1 of

 the marriage of PW 11 Shivani wherein both

 Bhawna and Bharti Yadav are seen in

 possession of mobile phones. While recording

 the statement of Ms Bhawna Yadav the video

 cassette was played in the Court and it was

 seen therein that the witness was going towards 295 Bharti who was sitting next to Lata, their friend

and at that time Bhawna was holding a mobile

phone which she had kept on the shoulder of

Bharti and thereafter Lata had picked up one

phone from the ground and handed over to

her. The explanation given by the witness in

answer to the court question is to the effect

that the phone which she was holding in her

hand she must have borrowed from someone.

She did not disclose the name of the person

from whom she had borrowed the said phone

and whether she had made any call therefrom

and to whom. It is strange to note that her

own phone she had left with the driver and

she was borrowing the phone from someone

else but that too does not know for what

purpose she had borrowed the same. Mobile

can be used only for one purpose to send 296 massages or make or receive the calls.

However, she categorically admitted that she

did not make any call to her own phone from

any of these two cell phones since her phone

was in the custody of her driver. It is further

strange to note that as per her statement her

driver did not disclose to her if any call from

Neelam Katara was received on her cell phone

nor he told her how many calls were received

on her phone till the evening of 17.02.02.

She has failed to explain that if her driver did

not inform her about any call received from

Neelam Katara on her phone then how she

called her back in the evening of 17.2.02 , her

such conduct only leads to the inference that

since there was a call from mobile No.

9810038469 to the mobile/ landline of Neelam

Katara made by Bharti Yadav as deposed by 297 Neelam Katara and proved vide call record Ex.

PW 22/2 so therefore to cover up the same she

testified that she had called Neelam Katara on

the evening of 17.2.02 . The testimony of this

witness is further doubtful as she stated that

she never asked her driver to call on the

landline Nos of her parents house from her

mobile on the intervening night of 16/17­2­02

between 2:20am to 2:23am whereas the call

record shows that 5 outgoing calls were made

from the mobile No. 9810038469 to the landline

Nos 4713790 and 4714101 installed at the

residence of Sh DP Yadav as proved vide

testimony of PW43 Sh. SP Singh, the installation

of these telephone numbers at the residence

of Sh DP Yadav is not disputed by the accused

persons. As per the call record there is another

call made from the aforesaid mobile at 4 am 298 on 17.2.02 to the mobile No. 9810154964 of

 Bharat Diwakar which is also proved from the

 call record Ex.PW 22/2 and Ex PW 22/3. The

 call record Ex. PW 22/2 further proved receipt

 of twelve calls from the landline Nos. of

 Neelam Katara on the mobile No 9810038469

 during 6:17 hours to 11.43 hours besides one

 call from mobile of Neelam Katara on 17.2.02

 and the calls materialised from 37 seconds to

 182 seconds. cxviii) As per the call record Ex PW 22/2

 a telephone call was received on the mobile of

 Bharat Diwakar from the mobile No. 9810038469

 at 4:06 hours on 17.2.02 which Bharat Diwakar

 has categorically deposed was received from

 Bharti Yadav and is not disputed during cross

 examination of this witness. Besides, Bharat

 Diwakar called him from his mobile to Bharti 299 Yadav 7 times on 17.2.02 between 6: 41 hours to

 21:37 hours and some of the calls between

 Bharat Diwakar and Bharti Yadav are for 123

 seconds, 192 seconds . cxix) PW42 Bhawna Yadav has admitted

 that she had not asked her driver to make any

 call to Bharat Diwakar from her cell. It is not

 her case that her driver was known to Bharat

 Diwakar that he could make a call to him.

 Then who made call from her mobile to Bharat

 Diwakar that too at 4:06 hours on 17/2/02 has

 been answered by Bharat Diwakar vide his

 testimony that Bharti Yadav had called her.

 PW 42 is highly educated and is expected

 to be well aware of the use of mobile but still

 as per her version she had left it with her

 driver and thereafter she did not bother to see

 whose calls were received when the mobile was 300 with her driver. cxx) As referred above PW 25 Bharat

 Diwakar categorically stated in his chief

 examination that mobile No. 9810038469 was

 the mobile phone number of Bharti Singh and

 after reached 7 Chemsford Road at 3 am on

 17.2.02 he had received call from Bharti on his

 cell phone in the morning and she made 2 ­ 3

 calls to him. It is strange that if the aforesaid

 mobile was in the possession of the driver of

 Bhawna then how could it be used by Bharti to

 call Bharat Diwakar. This shows that the

 mobile phone was with Bharti Yadav and she

 had made a call to Bharat Diwakar. The

 testimony of Bharat Diwakar is further

 corroborated by the video cassette Ex.PW 42/1

 which was again played at the time of dictating

 the judgment and has been viewed again which 301 shows that while both the bride and bride

groom were sitting for the phera ceremony

Bharti Yadav is seen sitting behind the priest

holding two cell phones and after sometime at

the same place it is seen that either she is

attending or making a phone call as the cell

phone is seen in her left hand near her ear.

It is the version of PW 11 Shivani Gaur that

she went for phera ceremony after 1:30 am. The

call record Ex.PW 22/2 of mobile phone No.

9810038469 shows that between 2:19 hours to

2:23 hours there are five outgoing calls made

to the landline Nos installed at her residence.

The call record finds corroboration the video

recording in Ex PW 42/1 when at the same

time Bharti Yadav is seen holding mobile

phone near her ear. Though PW 42 Bhawna

has claimed that her mobile was in the 302 possession of her driver but in my opinion it

 is not possible that if the phone was left by

 her with the driver she did not enquire about

 calls received or made from the phone nor

 checks the mobile phone herself. The question

 arises who made five outgoing calls from her

 mobile at the landline Nos of her parents house

 between 2:19 hours to 2:23 hours on the night

 of 16/17.02.02. cxxi) Moreover PW 25 Bharat Diwakar

 was not cross examined by the defence counsel

 with regard to his said testimony which proves

 on record that the mobile phone No.

 9810038469 was being used by Ms Bharti and

 she had made several calls from this mobile

 and at the same time had also received several

 calls from Nitish Katara till 16.2.02 and

 thereafter from Neelam Katara, Nitin Katara and 303 Bharat Diwkar and also made calls to them. 

cxxii) It is pertinent to mention that

 Spl PP for State with the permission of the

 Court had put certain leading questions to PW

 42 Bhawana Yadav with regard to the mobile

 number possessed by her father Sh DP Yadav,

 his brother Vikas Yadav, the accused, her

 husband, her personal phone number, her friend

 Lata's mobile no., landline nos installed at her

 parents house and she chose easy answer to say

 that she did not remember any of the numbers.

 If she is so short of memory then how could

 she remember that mobile No. 9810038469

 was the number of her mobile in the year 2002

 as she could not even remember the landline

 number of her house. Besides, if she was

 possessing mobile No. 9810038469 then she must

 have made at least one call to her husband on 304 his mobile during these four days, when she

 was in Ghaziabad to attend the marriage of

 Shivani, however intentionally she failed to

 disclose the mobile number of her husband so

 as to conceal the truth from the Court as then

 it could be checked that there was no call

 made by her to her husband from the aforesaid

 number. It is also evident from her evidence

 that she is a false witness when she claims that

 she surrendered the aforesaid mobile after one

 week of the marriage but as per the testimony

 of PW22 the call record ExPW 22/2 of the

 mobile No 9810038469 till 31.3.02.

cxxiii) Besides, the call record Ex.PW 22/2

 further shows that from the period 01/02/02 till

 4 pm on 17.2.02 it is not reflecting the cell

 ID No 661 of Faridabad which shows that

 during this period the mobile remained in 305 possession of Bharti Yadav and not with

 Bhawna Yadav who was resident of Faridabad

 during this period. It is only w.e.f 4:03 pm on

 17.2.02 till 19.2.02 at 3:10 pm.

cxxiv) In view of her such conduct her

 testimony seems to be motivated and tilted

 towards the accused persons , one of whom is

 her real brother and other is the cousin

 brother. She is an interested witness being

 the sister of the accused persons. 

cxxv) The argument of the defence

 counsel is that Mami and Bua of Bharti have

 not been examined by the prosecution, as such

 the prosecution has failed to prove on record

 that they were aware of her relationship with

 the deceased and were planning to talk to Sh

 DP Yadav, her father about their marriage, after

 the elections of accused Vikas Yadav. It is 306 further submitted that Bharti Yadav has denied

that she had made any such statement to the

police. The answer to the aforesaid argument

is that Bharti was never expected to support

the prosecution case as she always remained

under pressure of her family, since the accused

Vikas Yadav is her real brother, I am of the

view that if Mami and Bua had been cited as

prosecution witnesses even they would not

have supported the prosecution case for the

same reason. As such the prosecution was

handicapped to this effect as all the relevant

evidence about the knowledge of the accused

about Bharti's relation with Nitish Katara was

within the family of the accused persons and it

was not possible for the prosecution to prove

this evidence. Thus the prosecution had no

option except to rely upon the circumstantial 307 evidence in this regard in the absence of direct

 evidence. cxxvi) The prosecution to this effect has

 relied upon an authority reported in 2006

 IV AD (Crl) (S.C) 193. It is a case U/s

 302/498­A IPC and it was held by the Hon'ble

 Apex Court that: TIME
➔ AND PRESENCE OF NITISH KATARA 319 AND ACCUSED PERSONS AT AND OUTSIDE
 DIAMOND PALACE: ii) Similarly it is important to note the

time of the presence of Niish Katara, now

deceased ie 1. in the Diamond Palace , 2. in the lawns of Diamond Palace 3. outside the Diamond Palace and 320 4. at Hapur Chungi in the company of the

accused persons. iii) The defence counsels have

argued that all the prosecution witnesses except

PW 33Ajay Katara were declared hostile and as

such no reliance can be placed on their

testimony. However, in my opinion, merely for

the reason, they were declared hostile their

testimony cannot be thrown away. As held in

the authority reported in 2006 I AD (Cr. )

SC 177 

 " Evidence of a prosecution

 witness cannot be rejected in toto merely

 because the prosecution chose to treat

 him as hostile and cross examined him.''

 It is further held in the authority 321 reported in 2007 III AD (Cr.) 380 

 " Only because a

 witness, for one reason or the other has,

 to some extent, resiled from his earlier

 statement by itself may not be sufficient to

 discard the prosecution case in its

 entirety. It is permissible for a Court of

 law to rely upon a part of the testimony of

 the witness who has been declared

 hostile.'' iv) Moreover, the maxim of Falsus in uno,

 falsus in omnibus does not apply to criminal

 trial and it is the duty of the Court to

 disengage the truth from falsehood, to sift the

 grain from the chaff instead of taking an easy

 course of rejecting the evidence in its entirety 322 merely on the basis of few infirmities. v) Keeping in view the principle laid down

 in the above authorities, now let us go through

 the statement of the prosecution witnesses

 examined to prove the time and presence of

 accused persons and Nitish Katara inside and

 outside the Diamond Palace. vi) PW 11 is Shivani Gaur who was

 getting married on 16.2.02 at Diamond Palace

 Banquet Hall Ghaziabad where from the

 deceased was allegedly abducted by the accused

 persons. She testified that she had reached

 the Diamond Palace at about 9 pm on 16.2.02.

 Barat had arrived around 10/10.15 pm and

 varmaala took place around 10.30 pm. After

 varmaala she and Amit Arora sat on the stage.

 There was gathering of about 600 to 700

 persons. While they were sitting at the stage, 323 her friends, relatives and other persons invited

in the marriage came to the stage, wished

them and gave compliments and blessings.

Video photographs and still photographs were

taken. The photograph Ex PW 6/2 was taken

at her marriage showing herself in the sitting

position alongwith Nitish Katara, Bharat

Diwakar and Bharti, who were standing. In

the photographs Ex PW 6/3 and 4 she is seen

alongwith her husband, her brother's friends

Sunit Kumar, accused Vishal Yadav and Vikas

Yadav and her brother Rohit . She stated that

Vikas Yadav ad Vishal Yadav are the cousin

brothers and she knew Vishal Yadav for quite a

long time due to friendship with Bharti Yadav.

She testified that Bharti Yadav, Nitish Katara,

Garuav Gupta and Bharat Diwakar had attended

the marriage ceremony apart from many other 324 guests and the accused persons. Nitish Katara

 was wearing a rust colour kurta and a cream

 shawl as shown in the photograph Ex. PW 6/2.

 It is stated that at the time of Satpati from her

 close friends only Bharti Yadav, Bhawna Yadav

 and Lata were present and others had left. She

 stated that on the next day morning 17.2.02

 police came to her house alongwith Bharat

 Diwakar and then she learnt that Nitish Katara

 had been abducted. vii) She did not state in her chief

 examination as to what time her other friends

 had left and to my mind it was her natural

 conduct as she being the bride could not have

 been able to notice the time when a particular

 relative or friend left the marriage venue,

 particularly when the marriage was attended

 by 600 to 700 persons. viii) During cross examination by the

 defence counsel for accused Vishal Yadav she

 stated that Satpati started at 1:30 am on

 17.2.02. She had taken meals around 12:30/ 1 am

 and her friends were also taking meals at that

 time. She stated that she had seen Nitish

 Katara on one side but did not see him taking

 meals. She saw him around 12.30/ 1 am. ix) Regarding accused Vikas Yadav and

 Vishal Yadav she stated that they had come to

 the marriage ceremony around 11/11:15 pm and

 after greeting them went away. x) She further stated during cross

 examination by the defence counsel for

 accused Vikas Yadav that she had seen Nitish

 Katara around 1:30am when after taking meals

 they were going for Satpati. xi) Regarding the arrival of Bharat Diwakar 326 at her marriage ceremony, she stated that he

 arrived there at 11:30/11:45 pm at her marriage

 ceremony and after greeting he told her that he

 had to leave and thereafter she did not see

 him though she did not talk to him about the

 reason of his leaving. xii) In view of the timings given by PW

 11 regarding arrival and departure of the

 accused persons, Nitish Katara, ( deceased) and

 Bharat Diwakar she was re­examined with the

 permission of the Court but before that certain

 court questions were put to her . xiii) In answer to the Court questions she

 stated that she and her husband were sitting

 at the dias from 10:20 / 10:30 pm and left the

 dias around 12.30 pm. The meals for the barat

 started around 10/10:30 pm . In another

 question she replied that she did not know at 327 what time the people started taking meals

 because the hall where she was sitting was

 different from the place where meals were

 being served. She stated that crowd was

 maximum at about 10.30 pm and there was big

 crowd in the hall upto 11 pm. People were

 coming, greeting her and were mixing in the

 crowd and unless she had seen someone going

 from the gate particularly she would not know

 who had left the hall or who had not left the

 hall. Everyone who had come to the marriage

 ceremony had taken meals and nobody was

 allowed to go without meals. xiv) Regarding accused persons she testified

 that they had not taken meals as they told her

 husband that they were in hurry. They told

 him that they had to go to polling booth. xv) She was put a specific and important 328 question by the court which is reproduced as

 follows: 12.30 which other friends had left before above friends.
They were the last people stated by me above because
at that time crowd was not much they came to me and
said bye. Others I do not know because they had not
come to me to say bye nor I kept any record of their
leaving." xvi) She voluntarily stated that when 329 she came from honeymoon she read about

 Nitish Katara in the newspaper, about a dance

 that was much thrown about but there was no

 such dance and there was nothing of that sort.

xvii) The testimony of this witness does not

 inspire any credence, as it is the case of the

 prosecution that Nitish Katara and Bharat

 Diwakar had gone to Diamond Palace together

 to attend the marriage of Shivani Gaur. She has

 testified that Bharat Diwakar had arrived there

 at about 11.30/ 11.45 pm she is silent about the

 time of arrival of Nitish Katara, though there is

 ample evidence on record which shall be

 discussed hereafter that both Nitish Katara and

 Bharat Diwakar had arrived at the marriage

 place together in a taxi since Bharat Diwakar

 had come from Bhopal to attend the marriage

 and was staying at the house of Nitish Katara 330 and taxi driver PW24 Shadi Ram deposed in

chief examination that he had dropped them

around 10pm. The video cassette Ex.PW 42/1

proves the presence of Nitish Katara at the time

of arrival of the barat which as per the

testimony of Shivani arrived at 10/10.15 pm.

So her testimony to this effect that Bharat

Diwakar arrived there at 11.30/ 1.45 pm is

false. It is pertinent to mention that it was her

own marriage and she must also be possessing

the original of the video cassette Ex. PW

42/1 and must have seen several times so it

cannot be said that she was not aware of the

time of arrival of the barat or who was

present at that time. It is also not the case

of prosecution or of Shivani Gaur that the

Barat had arrived at there 11.30 or 11.45 pm .

The testimony of this witness is again found 331 tilted towards the accused persons when she

stated that Bharat Diwakar came at 11.30/11.45

pm on 16.2.02 at her marriage ceremony and

after greetings he told that he had to leave

and thereafter she did not see him, whereas

PW25 Bharat Diwakar testified in his chief

examination that he alongwith Nitish Katara

had reached the marriage place around 10.15

pm which finds corroboration from the video

cassette Ex.PW 42/1, wherein Nitish Katara

is seen at the time of arrival of the barat and

Shivani Gaur has also admitted that the barat

came at 10/10.15 pm. Bharat Diwakar also did

not say that after wishing Shivani he told her

that he had to leave and thereafter he was

not seen by Shivani. To the contrary he testified

that after wishing Shivani for the marriage he

alongwith Nitish Katara and Gaurav Gupta 332 went to the garden where there was an

arrangement for food. Bharat Diwakar further

testified that while they were taking meals

between 11/11.15pm a person came and enquired

who was Nitish out of them and Nitish told

that person, that he was Nitish, then that

person and Nitish went a little away from

them and started talking. He was a young

male who called Nitish and none of the two i e

Bharat Diwakar and Gaurav Gupta met him

thereafter. He further testified that at about

12.45 am they tried to contact Nitish on his

cell but could not get through. From the

testimony of this witness appears that Nitish

Katara was nowhere around in the Diamond

Palace at about 12.30 /1 am /1.30 am as

deposed by Shivani Gaur. It is strange to note

that during the court questions Shivani Gaur 333 admitted that she did not know at what time

the people started taking meals because the hall

where she was sitting was different from the

place where meals were being served. This

answer leads to the inference that till 12.30 am

when she went out of the hall for dinner she

could not have seen anybody in the lawns. In

answer to the other question put by the Court

she admitted that she was not in a position to

say who left at what time. She stated that till it

was very crowded she did not know who went

at what time. She named some of her friends

namely Swati, Pooja, Preeti, and Vipin who

left at about 12.30 am when she was going for

dinner. She stated that all others friends had

left before the above named friends. This

shows that even Nitish Katara was not there at

that time. It further strengthens the court belief 334 that she made a tutored and false statement

that she saw Nitish at about 12.30/ 1 am and

then again stated 1.30 am to support the

defence that between 12.20 am / 12.30 am he

could not have been seen in the company of

accused persons by Ajay Katara at Hapur

Chungi. Besides, the call record shows that the

last call received on the mobile No. 9811283641

of Nitish Katara was at 1:11am from mobile

No. 9810154964 showing the cell ID of Raj

Nagar. The conduct of the witness in making

a voluntarily statement before the Court about

any sequence of dance relating to marriage

function also does not inspire any credence,

particularly, when she was not questioned in

this regard either by the prosecution or by

the defence. Moreover if she was so enthusiastic

she should not have kept quiet in this regard 335 till her testimony before the court. 

xviii) So far PW 38 Bharti Yadav is

 concerned, she too has admitted the presence of

 both the accused persons and Nitish Katara

 ( deceased) in the marriage of Shivani Gaur

 though she did not support the prosecution

 case on material particulars and was declared

 hostile. During cross examination by Spl. PP

 for State she testified that accused Vikas and

 Vishal did not have dinner and left in front of

 her and Shivani's husband asked them for

 dinner they told that they had to go. She

 further admitted the suggestion of the

 prosecution that she never went out of the hall

 after her brothers had left the same and she

 had seen them last leaving the place where the

 couple was sitting between 10.30/11pm, which

 shows that she could not have seen at what 336 time the accused persons finally left the

 Diamond Palace Banquet Hall. To this effect

 she has admitted the suggestion of the

 prosecution that she cannot say after leaving

 the hall what time the accused persons left the

 Diamond Palace and alongwith whom.

xix) She did not state in her chief

 examination or cross examination by Spl. PP for

 State as to what time Nitish Katara left the

 marriage place. It is only during the cross

 examination by advocate Sh SK Sharma, counsel

 for accused Vishal Yadav she stated that after

 mid night ie 1/1.30 am after most of the guests

 had left, she alongwith her friends including

 Nitish Katara had taken dinner and thereafter

 she went inside with Shivani for phera

 ceremony. Her said statement appears to be

 motivated and tilted towards the accused 337 persons who are her brothers so as to protect

them, as if Nitish Katara around 1 am was

present in the Diamond Palace alongwith her,

he could not have been present with the

accused persons in Tata Safari at Hapur Chungi

between 12.20/12.30am. This is again apparently

a false statement as no other witness has stated

that deceased Nitish Katara had taken dinner

in the company of Bharti Yadav. She too has

tried to show the presence of Nitish Katara in

Diamond Palace at 12.30/ 1 am which is a false

statement even as per the call record

Ex.PW21/1 whereby he had received last call on

his mobile at 1:11 am on the night of

16/17.02.02 and cell ID was of Raj Nagar.

Since she was the real sister of the accused

persons and her conduct has already been

observed above, she was a tutored witness and 338 under the influence of her family as earlier

 she was not permitted to appear before the

 Court, her correct address was not furnished to

 the Court and only when coercive method was

 adopted she appeared before the Court but she

 did not support the prosecution case. Influence

 of her family and their pressure is apparent

 from her statement which has already been

 discussed above. xx) So far the prosecution case that during

 marriage function while Nitish was standing

 alongwith his friend Bharat Diwakar and

 Gaurav Gupta, accused Vishal Yadav came

 there and took out of the marriage hall, she

 did not deny this fact categorically but claimed

 that she had no knowledge. Similarly the

 question put by Spl PP for State regarding the

 fact that Nitish was taken away by the accused 339 persons and Sukhdev in Tata Safari from the

 marriage place has not been denied by her

 specifically but she claimed that she did not

 know. The important part of the question put

 by Spl. PP for State was the use of the Tata

 Safari by the accused persons in the

 kidnapping/ abduction of the deceased . Bharti

 Yadav did not state that they had not come to

 Diamond Palace in Tata Safari nor she stated

 that they had come there in the Mercedes, the

 defence which accused persons had taken

 through the cross examination of PW 42

 Bhawna Yadav, their sister for the first time. 

xxi) I have already observed above that

 PW38 Bharti Yadav had given statement Ex.PW

 35/AB to the police on 2.3.02, wherein it

 categorically finds mention that on 16.2.02 both

 the accused persons alongwith Sukhdev 340 Pehalwan, their co accused (facing separate trial)

came to the marriage ceremony and at about

1.30 am she came to know that the accused

persons alongwith their co accused Sukhdev

Pehalwan had taken alongwith them Nitish

Katara. The conduct of this witness has already

been discussed above in the circumstance

motive and it has already been proved on

record as discussed above that she had made

statement to the police, and now to protect her

brother she had concocted the story or was

tutored to do so to say that Nitish Katara was

in her company at 1/ 1.30 am in the Diamond

Palace, whereas as her statement Ex PW 35/AB

by 1.30 am she had already come to know that

the accused persons had taken away Nitish

Katara which caused anxiety to her which is

apparent from her call record Ex. PW 22/2 341 that she made calls at her residence several

 times from her mobile No. 9810038469.

xxii) The other important witness in

 this regard is PW 42 Bhawna Yadav, sister

 of accused Vikas Yadav and Bharti Yadav and

 cousin sister of accused Vishal Yadav. This fact

 is not disputed by the accused persons that

 she too had attended the marriage of Shivani

 Gaur at Diamond Palace on the night of 16.2.02.

 This witness was not cited by the prosecution

 as a witness and was examined only to prove

 the call record of mobile No. 9810038469.

 Accused persons took complete benefit of her

 examination and introduced certain new facts

 for the first time, as during her cross

 examination by the counsel for accused Vishal

 Yadav she testified that both the accused

 persons had attended the marriage of Shivani 342 Gaur only for 10 minutes and then had left.

She further testified that the accused persons

had reached the marriage hall at 10.30/10.45

pm. It is through the cross examination of this

witness the defence has tried to prove that this

witness was present at the gate of the hall

when the accused persons were leaving and

she had asked them as to why they were

leaving so early, to which his brother accused

Vikas Yadav told her that it was already 11 pm

and since he had to reach Karnal to attend

some function so they were in hurry. Again

through the testimony of this witness the

defence has introduced the presence of

Mercedes that the accused persons had come

to the Diamond Palace in black Mercedes and

both of them left at 11 pm and that none else

was accompanying them, though it is different 343 aspect that she could not tell the number of

 the Mercedes in which they had come, despite

 the fact that the Mercedes belonged to his

 brother accused Vikas Yadav. Again through

 the examination of this witness the defence has

 tried to show the presence of Nitish Katara at

 Diamond Palace at l am. It is seen here that

 three different statements contradictory to each

 other have come on record ie PW 38 Bharti

 Yadav stated that Nitish was with her at 1/1.30

 am and had dinner with her, PW42 Bhawna

 Yadav stated that Nitish was with them at 1

 O'clock when she had dinner but Nitish did not

 have dinner with them and PW 11 Shivani

 Gaur stated that she had taken meals around

 12.30 or 1 am, she saw Nitish Katara also on

 one side but did not see him taking meals. 

xxiii) Similarly there are contradictions 344 in the statement of these witnesses regarding

 arrival and departure of accused persons. 

xxiv) So far Bharti Yadav is concerned

 she has testified that accused persons had come

 to the Diamond Palace and left between

 10.30/11pm. Whereas Shivani Gaur has testified

 that accused Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav

 had come to the marriage ceremony at 11/11.15

 pm, PW 42 Bhawna Yadav stated that they

 had arrived there at about 10.30/10.45 pm and

 stayed there for 10/15 minutes. So they all have

 made contradictory statement to each other.

xxv) The other important witness

 regarding the time of presence of Nitish in

 the Diamond Palace is PW 26 Gaurav Gupta.

 PW 26 Gaurav Gupta was the common friend

 of Bharti Yadav, Bharat Diwakar, Shivani Gaur

 and Nitish Katara, the deceased. He too had 345 attended the marriage of Shivani Gaur on

 16.2.02 at Diamond Palace. He testified that he

 had reached the Banquet Hall at 11.15/11.30

 pm and in the marriage hall Nitish, Bharat

 Diwakar were there and Shivani was there

 apart from the other guests. He testified that

 while the marriage reception was being done in

 the Banquet Hall the food arrangement was

 there in the adjoining garden. He stated as

 follows: xxvi) He further testified that he did not

 recollect for how much time Nitish remained

 with him after they went for dinner, whether 346 it was 2 min., 5 min., 10 min., 20 min. or 30

min. . He stated that when they were having

dinner together and he went to replenish his

plate and when he came back Nitish was not

there but Bharat Diwakar was there. It is

stated that he did not meet Nitish Katara alive

again from that point of time when he did not

see him on coming back at dinner place after

replenishing of his plate. He stated that he

may have left the marriage pandal at

12.45/1 am , this itself shows that when

Gaurav Gupta left Nitish Katara was not

present in the Banquet Hall at 12.45/.1 am as

claimed by witnesses Bharti Yadav, Bhawna

and Shivani Gaur . Gaurav Gupta in his cross

examination by the defence stated that he

must have told the police that he took dinner

with Nitish and Bharat around 12/12.30 post 347 mid night, if the time had been asked by the

police to him. However, his statement Ex. PW

26/1 recorded U/s. 161 Cr PC shows that this

fact is not mentioned therein . It is taken note

of that in his chief examination he stated that

he had gone for dinner 12/12.15 am which

shows that he was not sure of the exact time

when they had dinner nor in my opinion he

was expected to know as nobody consults

watch for their every moment particularly in

the marriage of their close friend. As such a

normal human being in the normal course of

nature is only likely to remember the time

approximately so it cannot be held from the

statement of Gaurav Gupta that he had dinner

alongwith Bharat Diwakar and Nitish Katara

exactly at 12 O'clock or exactly 12.15 mid

night or 12.30 mid night. A reasonable 348 margin has to be given either side. It is

quite possible that they had dinner before 12

mid night or even after 12.30 mid night.

However, in the present case the observation

that the dinner must have been taken by them

before 12 mid night seems more plausible in

view of the other evidence on record

particularly Bharat Diwakar who was with him

who stated in his chief examination that they

were taking dinner between 11/11.15 pm when

a young male persons came to call Nitish.

Besides the call record Ex.PW21/1 pertaining to

mobile No. 9811283641 belonging to Nitish

Katara, the deceased shows that an outgoing

call was made from his mobile to mobile No.

9911009998 at 22:20 hours and the cell ID

was of 158 Ghaziabad Kavi Nagar which shows

this call was made from Diamond Palace. The 349 record further shows that from 22:20 hours till

 23:33 hours he made four outgoing calls and

 received one incoming call and the cell ID was

 of 158 Ghaziabad Kavi Nagar. xxvii) The record further shows that at

 00:35 hours one incoming call was received on

 the mobile of the deceased Nitish Katara and

 the cell ID was of 225 which is of Ghaziabad

 Raj Nagar. xxviii) The record also shows that from

 00:35 hours to 1:11 hours he received 6

 incoming calls on his mobile and the cell ID

 was 225 Ghaziabad Raj Nagar, which shows

 that though at 23:33 hours Nitish was present

 at Kavi Nagar ie Diamond Palace but at 00:35

 hours his presence is shown at Raj Nagar,

 Ghaziabad. Diamond Palace is situated at Kavi

 Nagar so therefore he could not be present at 350 Diamond Palace at 00:35 hours or thereafter

 in view of the call record Ex.PW 21/1. The

 presence of Nitish Katara thus at Hapur Chungi

 between 23:33 hours and 00:35 hours cannot

 be denied by the accused persons. xxix) The other important witness to

 the prosecution is PW25 Bharat Diwakar who

 testified that he alongwih Nitish Katara (the

 deceased) reached the marriage place at about

 10.15 pm. After wishing Shivani for the marriage

 he alongwith Gaurav Gupta and Nitish went to

 the garden where there was food arrangements

 and while they were having dinner a person

 came and enquired, who was Nitish out of

 them and Nitish told him that he was Nitish .

 That person and Nitish went a little away from

 them and started talking. That person was a

 young male and had come sometime between 351 11/11.15 pm and none of them met him

thereafter. He stated that around 12.45 am he

and Gaurav Gupta were through from dinner

and they tried calling Nitish on his cell phone

but could not get through. Bharat Diwakar

further stated that Gaurav Gupta did not have

any cell so he was to contact Nitish from his

cell phone as well as from the cell phone of

his friend Yash Tomar. He also testified that

Yash Tomar was not in the wedding. The

call record Ex.PW 21/1 corroborates the

statement of Bharat Diwakar that a call was

made from the mobile No. 9810154964

belonging to Bharat Dwakar at 01:11 hours on

the mobile of Nitish Katara and as per the

testimony of both PW 25 Bharat Diwakar

and PW 26 Gaurav Gupta it is proved on

record that at that time Gaurav Gupta had 352 made a call from the mobile of Bharat Diwakar

 to Nitish Katara on his mobile and the talks

 materialised that Nitish Katara was at IMT and

 would contact him. It is important to note that

 IMT is in Raj Nagar and the cell ID of the last

 call received on the mobile of deceased was

 also of Raj Nagar. xxx) The fact that the mobile of Yash

 Tomar was not with Gaurav Gupta in the

 marriage hall is also proved from the call

 record Ex.PW 2l/4, whereby three incoming

 calls are shown to have been received by Yash

 Tomar on his mobile No. 9811220691 from the

 mobile of Bharat Diwakar bearing No.

 9810154964 since it is claimed by Bharat

 Diwakar and Gaurav Gupta that they were

 together till Gaurav Gupta left the Diamond

 Place alongwith Yash Tomar. xxxi) During cross examination of Bharat

 Diwakar the testimony of the witness to the

 effect that they had taken dinner alongwith

 Nitish Katara at 11/11.15 pm has not been

 disputed in any manner by the defence. No

 question in this regard was put to the witness

 nor any suggestion to the contrary was given.

 Even no suggestion was given to Bharat

 Diwakar that Nitish Katara had taken dinner

 alongwith Bharti at 1 /1:30 am. So the defence

 of the accused persons that Nitish Katara had

 dinner alongwith Bharti Yadav at 1.30 am at

 Diamond Palace has not been substantiated in

 any manner. To the contrary it is proved

 through the testimony particularly of Bharat

 Diwakar that the dinner was taken by Nitish

 Katara alongwith them at about 11/11.15 pm.

 Similarly the presence of accused persons 354 around at that time at Diamond Palace is

 proved from the statement of Shivani Gaur

 PW 11 who had testified that accused Vikas

 Yadav and Vishal Yadav had come to the

 marriage ceremony around 11/11.15 pm and

 after greeting them they went away. No

 suggestion was given to the contrary to this

 witness in defence that the accused persons had

 not arrived at the marriage hall at 11/11.15 am.

 As per the statement of Bhawna Yadav they

 stayed there for 10/15 minutes. If the accused

 persons arrived at the marriage place at

 11/11.15 pm and stayed there for 10/15 minutes

 they were positively there in the marriage

 function around 11.30 pm. 

xxxii) So far PW 25 Bharat Diwakar is

 concerned he did not support the prosecution

 case in chief examination with regard to the 355 fact that he came to know during enquiry

that the person who had taken Nitish outside

Diamond Palace was Vishal Yadav r/o Raj

Nagar Ghaziabad. He simply testified that he

came to know the name of that person as

Vishal. In his statement U/s. 161 Cr PC it is

mentioned that while they were taking dinner

at 12 O'clock one fair complexioned person

came and told Nitish Katara that he had seen

him somewhere and what was his name. Nitish

told him that his name was Nitish and

thereafter they started talking with each other

at some distance from Bharat Diwakar and

Gaurav Gupta and while so talking that tall

fair person took Nitish out of the Diamond

Palace . When Nitish did not return and they

were waiting for him he enquired from the

persons present there about that person and 356 came to know that his name was Vishal Yadav

 R/o Raj Nagar. xxxiii) During his examination in

 the Court the witness admitted that his

 statement was recorded by the IO, though he

 claimed it was recorded on 19.2.02 whereas as

 per the prosecution it was recored on 17.2.02 .

 The witness admitted that whatever he stated

 was recorded by the police and was read over

 to him. As such his statement before the police

 U/s 161 Cr PC is admitted by the witness. He

 also admitted that all the facts which he told

 to the police U/s 161 Cr. PC were important.

 However, he claimed that he could not identify

 the person who took away Nitish Katara, due

 to lapse of time and for the reason he had seen

 him only 5/6 seconds. Now it is to be seen

 from his testimony and his conduct during the 357 testimony as to how much support can be

claimed by the prosecution from his statement.

The influence of the accused persons or to say

of Sh DP Yadav who was MP at the relevant

time on the witnesses cannot be ignored.

Even this witness who is the son of an IPS

Officer and had made statement U/s 161 Cr. PC

in the presence of his father and claimed that

whatever he stated to the police was recorded

and was read over to him but still he did not

disclose before the Court the exact particulars

of the person who came to them while they

were taking dinner and took away Nitish

alongwith him appeared to be under pressure.

He simply gave the name of the person as

Vishal and did not disclose before the Court

that he was Vishal Yadav r/o Raj Nagar. The

cross examination of the IO PW 35 is relevant 358 to this effect as it is he who had recorded the

 statement of Bharat Diwakar U/s 161 Cr PC

 but no question was put to him by the

 defence counsel how instead of only Vishal the

 name of the person was mentioned as Vishal

 Yadav R/o Raj Nagar in his statement. 

xxxiv) Besides, PW 35 claimed that

 he cannot identify that person due to lapse of

 time. It cannot be imagined that Nitish Katara

 was his close friend who was taken away by

 someone in front of his eyes and since

 thereafter he was not seen alive, this person

 says that he cannot identify the abductor. His

 such testimony is not believable. In the

 circumstances of the case the imprint of the

 person is registered in the mind of a person for

 ever particularly due to his unique description

 that he was tall and fair which incidentally 359 matches with the accused Vishal Yadav. Besides

his testimony during his cross examination by

the counsel for accused Vishal Yadav to the

effect that in his presence Neelam Katara in

the PS Kavi Nagar had told the person writing

report, pointing out towards him, that Nitish

had gone to Ghaziabad with him has important

bearing on his conduct. During court

questions he stated that after searching for

Nitish Katara he went back to PS Kavi Nagar

and by that time Smt Neelam Katara had also

reached the PS. He was called for 5 minutes

when the report of Neelam Katara was being

recorded to repeat the exact event as to how

Nitish Katara was got missed and the exact

events of the evening as to when he reached

and what transpired after that upto the time he

reached back Delhi. However, it is noticed that 360 when the witness was put a specific question

by the Court as to whether he knows against

whom Neelam Katara had expressed her doubt

and lodged report in the PS Kavi Nagar, he

kept silent for quite long time and then he

stated, h e only knows missing report of her

son was recorded. His said demeanour itself

shows that he was under some pressure or

had been won over by the accused persons to

not to quote the name of accused Vishal

Yadav. He neither gave the correct particulars

of the person who took away Nitish out of

the Diamond Palace nor the name of the

person from whom he came to know that it

was Vishal Yadav R/o Rajnagar Ghaziabad nor

in the Court he identified the accused Vishal

Yadav as the said person. It is noticed that

he is MBA qualified and in his presence the 361 complainant had lodged the report with the

police about missing of his son who was his

close friend and he had been staying with him

when he came to Delhi to attend the marriage

and remained at Delhi at the house of Nitish

Katara till 19.2.02 but he claims, he did not

know against whom PW 30 Neelam Katara, the

mother of the deceased had lodged report.

Particularly, when the report was lodged

against the brothers of his friend Bharti Yadav

in his presence, his said statement that he did

not know against whom the report was lodged

is unbelievable and it appears he made

statement before the Court under pressure. In

answer to court question he admitted that he

stayed at the house of Nitish Katara till 19.2.02

and there were several persons in the house

including family friends and there was activity 362 all around and general concern for Nitish but

 still he claims that he did not know against

 whom the complaint was lodged by PW 30.

 At the same time in guarded words, he stated 

 " I know the truth. I know what I did all , I
was fully concerned." The aforesaid answer to the court

questions shows that the witness was well aware

of the truth as to who were the culprits but

chose to remain silent for certain unexplained

reasons. The presumption is that he was scared

of the accused persons to bring the truth on

record. xxxv) It is important to note that Smt

 Neelam Katara lodged her complaint Ex PW 2/1

 with the police mainly on the basis of the

 information she had received from Bharat

 Diwakar only, but unfortunately for 363 unexplained reasons he chose to remain quiet.

xxxvi) The subsequent conduct of

 this witness is also relevant as he did not

 attend the cremation ceremony of his close

 friend who lost his life after being abducted

 and visited PW 30 for condolence after two

 months. However despite the fact PW 25 was

 declared hostile his entire testimony cannot be

 thrown away and his testimony is relevant

 regarding the time when Nitish Katara had

 dinner with him in Diamond Palace and went

 missing and the name of person who took him

 away and his description. xxxvii) The other two witnesses relied

 upon by the prosecution are PW 28 Ct Inderjeet

 Singh and PW32 Ct. Satender Pal Singh. Both

 these witnesses were posted on Chetak 13. Ct

 Satender was its driver. As per the prosecution 364 on the intervening night of 16/17.02.02 their

 duty was at T point Diamond Palace where a

 marriage was taking place. The prosecution

 case is that at around 12.15 am accused Vikas

 Yadav son of Sh DP Yadav reached there in

 Tata Safari from the side of Diamond Palace.

 On seeing the police officials he stopped his

 vehicle and thereafter went to wards Hapur

 Chungi. The widow panes of the vehicle were

 open and it was seen that beside Vikas

 Yadav three more persons were sitting in the

 vehicle, out of which one person wearing red

 colour kurta with round face was sitting on the

 seat adjoining the driver seat, whereas on the

 rear seat Vishal Yadav and one another person

 was sitting. xxxviii) PW28 Ct. Inderjeet Singh deposed

 about his duty at T point on the patrol car 365 Chetak 13 alongwith two home guards Prem

Singh and Anil Kumar besides the driver Ct

Satender. This witness initially did not support

the prosecution case while he deposed that he

had seen the accused persons present in Court

only in the court and had not seen them

before but in the same breath he stated that

he had seen them sitting in the long car and

going from there. He stated that there were

several cars going on that day from Diamond

Palace since there was marriage and they had

the instructions to be on duty nearby so that

there was no untoward incident or lifting of the

cars from the marriage site. He further stated

that they were performing their duty while

standing on the road and if they doubted any

vehicle, car or person they stopped the same

and then did the checking. He stated that they 366 had checked the car in which the accused

persons were sitting in a casual manner, to

see, if there was any arm and ammunition

inside the car or there was something

objectionable. He stated that it was around

12/12.15 am when he had checked the car of

the accused persons and there were only two

persons in the car but he could not say who

was driving the car out of those two persons.

He testified that after 6/7 days of that night he

heard that one Nitish Katara was kidnapped

from Diamond Palace and was murdered. He

denied that his statement was recorded by the

police. However, he admitted that he was

shown the photograph of Nitish Katara in the

PS and was told it is this boy who was

kidnapped and murdered. He denied that he

had told So Kavi Nagar that he had seen the 367 person in the photograph going in the car of

the accused persons on the night of 16/17.2.02

from Diamond Palace. He voluntarily stated

that he had told the SO that he had seen him

going in a car. Thereafter in answer to a court

question he stated that he had seen that person

in the photo ie Nitish Katara in a high roof

vehicle Safari when he was on duty on that

road. He also checked the same and there were

three persons in that Safari, two were on the

front and one was on the back. The person

whose photograph was shown to him was

sitting in the front. He stated that he had seen

Nitish Katara in that Safari around 12.30 am.

This witness was allowed to put leading

questions by the SPP for State since he was

resiling from his statement U/s 161 Cr. PC.

However, despite lengthy cross examination the 368 witness denied the fact that he made any

statement to the police U/s 161 CrPC or he

stated before the police that he had seen Nitish

and accused persons together in the car. He

insisted that he had told the SHO that he saw

both the accused persons and Nitish in different

cars. This witness did not support the

prosecution version that Nitish Katara was

seen in the company of accused persons outside

Diamond Palace. However, his testimony to

the effect that he had seen the accused persons

outside the Diamond Palace at about 12/12.15am

and that he had told the SO Anil Somania

that Vikas Yadav on seeing them stopped the

vehicle and then went towards Hapur Chungi is

not disputed by the accused persons in any

manner. Thus the attempt of the defence to

prove that the accused persons had left the 369 Diamond Palace around 10.45 pm has failed. At

the same time it is important to note that

initially this witness wanted to make statement

favourable to accused persons as in his chief

examination he stated that he had not seen the

accused persons before and he had seen them

for the first time in the Court, but lateron

when a specific question was put to him by

the Court that on the night intervening 16­

17/02/02 did he see the accused persons coming

from Diamond Palace, he admitted to have seen

them sitting in long car which shows he

wanted to favour the accused persons. At the

same time he has also admitted the presence of

Nitish Katara outside Diamond Palace around

that time in Tata Safari which too has not been

disputed by the defence as the witness was

not cross examined by any of the accused 370 persons. Even though the presence of Nitish

 alongwith the accused persons is not admitted

 by this witness, however, their presence outside

 the Diamond Palace around the same time and

 their proceeding towards Hapur Chungi is

 proved through his testimony. xxxix) The other witness examined

 by the prosecution to this effect is PW 32 Ct

 Satender. He was posted alongwith PW 28

 Ct Inderjeet Singh on Chetak 13. He deposed

 on the lines of PW28 regarding their presence

 near Banquet Hall. He stated that they

 positioned their Chetak 13 near the Banquet

 Hall around 11.15/11.30pm and were at a

 distance of about 10/15 steps from the Banquet

 Hall at a turning. He stated that after

 positioning their van they got down and were

 stopping the vehicles which were passing from 371 there by giving them signal and were checking

the same. He testified that he knew both the

accused Vikas and Vishal present in court. He

stated that he knew both the accused persons

from before 16/2/02 since he had seen them

roaming around in the area alongwith their

friends about 15 days prior to that and even

before that, as they were of the same area. He

stated that he had seen them on 16/2/02 also.

He further testified that on 16/2/02 when they

were checking the vehicle coming from

Diamond Palace they stopped the vehicle of

accused persons who were in Tata Safari driven

by accused Vikas Yadav and there were 2­3

persons sitting. He stated that he cannot say

who was sitting adjoining Vikas Yadav.

Regarding accused Vishal Yadav he stated that

he was sitting in the rear seat of Tata Safari. 372 It is testified that this vehicle was checked

 around 12.15/12.30 post midnight when he saw

 them. At this stage the witness was shown the

 photograph Ex PW 11/5 of Nitsh Katara and he

 stated as follows: He denied the suggestion that he was tutored

 to depose in the court that the registration

 number was of Punjab. During cross

 examination no question was put to the witness 377 about the presence of the accused persons

alongwith two more persons in Tata Safari at

12.15/12.30 mid night nor about the window

panes of the vehicle being rolled down nor it

was suggested that they had come to Diamond

Palace in black Mercedes instead of Tata

Safari, nor about the fact that Vikas Yadav was

on driver seat and Vishal Yadav was in the rear

seat. No doubt this witness has not deposed

in clear terms about the presence of deceased

Nitish Katara in Tata Safari, at the same time

the testimony of this witness corroborates the

statement of PW 33 Ajay Katara to the effect

that both the accused were travelling in Tata

Safari bearing Punjab number, accused Vikas

Yadav driving he same, Vishal Yadav sitting at

the rear seat and presence of two more

persons in the vehicle. PW 32 has 378 categorically stated that there were three

 persons in Tata Safari besides accused Vikas

 Yadav who was driving the same and Vishal

 Yadav was sitting in the rear seat. The

 contention of the defence counsel is that

 testimony of this witness does not inspire any

 credence for the reason that no log book was

 produced to prove their place of duty near

 Diamond Palace and for the reason his

 statement was recorded on 4.3.02 ie after

 lapse of 15 days of the incident despite the

 fact he was posted in the same PS Kavi Nagar

 where the present case was registered and hue

 and cry notice was also pasted in the PS, the

 news were there in the media and TV so it

 cannot be presumed that till 4.3.02 he did not

 come to know about this incident. xlvii) However, I find no merits in the 379 aforesaid contention of the defence counsel as

 the witness has in clear terms stated that he

 did not know about the incident till 4.3.02 till

 IO asked him and had shown him the

 photograph so the testimony of the witness

 has to be believed to this effect. The mere fact

 that there was huge publicity of the matter on

 the TV and media from this itself cannot be

 presumed that the witness must have seen the

 news on the TV and read the newspaper,

 besides, no particular question in this regard

 was put to the witness during cross

 examination. xlviii) Regarding the pasting of

 poster of missing of Nitish Katara in the PS

 again the witness was not subjected to any

 cross examination. xlix) So far the log book is concerned 380 the defence counsel has argued vehemently that

the log book of Chetak 13 was not allowed by

the Court to be produced which was an

important document to prove the movement of

the vehicle. However, this argument has no

force as the IO PW 35 SI Anil Somania during

his cross examination by the defence counsel

had produced the log book dtd. 16.02.02 in

respect of vehicle No. UP 14 J 4421, the patrol

car. No doubt the witness admitted that there

was no time mentioned in the log book about

the movements of the vehicle but the witness

clarified that there is no such column

prescribed in the log book. I have seen the log

book entry Ex.PW 35/XY2 and it is not only

with regard to vehicle No. UP 14J 4421 that

its movements on 16.02.02 and the time has

not been given but with regard to the other 381 vehicles also no time is given as to at what

 time they were on patrolling at a particular

 place. Besides, no suggestion has been given

 by the defence counsel to the IO that the log

 book was fabricated nor it was suggested to

 PW 28 Ct Inderjeet Singh and PW 32 Ct

 Satender Singh that they were not present at

 that time at T point Diamond Palace. l) The prosecution has also examined

 two witnesses PW19 Jai Prakash Pandey and

 PW 31 Umesh Sharma who both were posted as

 Security Guards at Diamond Palace on 16/2/02

 to the effect that they saw one boy wearing red

 colour kurta, churidaar pajama and white colour

 shawl who shook hands with some boys

 standing outside the Diamond Palace and he

 alongwith those boys sat immediately in the

 long car / Tata Safari and the vehicle went 382 towards the west side at a fast speed. Next day

 PW19 Jai Prakash Pandey came to know that

 one boy namely Nitish was missing from the

 marriage function but he did not know who

 had taken him away. PW31 Umesh Sharma

 came to know after 2­3 days from newspaper

 and TV that one boy was missing from

 Diamond Palace since then and the accused

 Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav and a Pehalwan

 killed him and burnt the dead body. It is

 mentioned in his statement U/s 161 Cr.PC that

 the victim was the same boy who was wearing

 red kurta and churidaar pajama and had gone

 in Tata Safari whose name was Nitish Katara

 and a resident of Delhi. Both these prosecution

 witnesses did not support the prosecution case

 and were declared hostile. li) PW19 Jai Prakash Pandey testified 383 that he was working as Security Guard at

Banquet Hall, Diamond Palace and was on night

duty on 16/2/02 on account of marriage in the

hall. He testified that he cannot identify the

guests who had participated in the marriage

from both the sides. He was shown the

photograph Ex.PW11/5 of the deceased as well

as the photographs Ex.PW6/3 and PW6/4 of

the accused persons but he testified that he

cannot say if these persons were seen by him

on the marriage on 16/2/02. He also stated that

he did not see any person in any special dress

sitting in any car. Despite lengthy cross

examination of the witness by Spl. PP for State

he denied that he made any such statement to

the police that on that day around 12:30am 3­4

boys sat in a long car and one boy wearing red

kurta churidaar pajama with white shawl had 384 sat in that car and that next day he came to

 know that a boy called Nitish Katara was

 missing from the marriage party. He was

 confronted with his statement Ex.PW19/1 before

 the police where these facts are found recorded,

 however his conduct is very relevant to

 appreciate his testimony as witness admitted in

 the cross examination by Spl. PP for State

 that he knew that in this case accused Vikas

 Yadav is son of Sh. DP Yadav and other

 accused Vishal Yadav is cousin brother of Vikas

 Yadav, whereas during cross examination by

 the defence counsel he testified that he had not

 seen the accused persons nor he knew them. lii) PW31 Umesh Sharma who also

 did not support the prosecution case testified

 that he did not see the person appearing in the

 photograph Ex.PW11/5 (photo of Nitish Katara) 385 in the parking and that he did not see the

 accused persons present in court , on that day

 in the parking. This witness was also cross

 examined by the prosecution and he denied

 that after 2­3 days of the marriage function he

 came to know that someone had been

 kidnapped from there. To the contrary he stated

 that he learnt about this after he received

 summons from the court. The witness was put

 a specific court question about his above

 referred statement that he learnt about the fact

 that someone had been kidnapped after he

 received summons from the court. The question

 is reproduced as follows; ''Court Ques. Is it written on summons that someone

was kidnapped and that is how you came to know?

Ans. No I did not come to know that someone had 386 been kidnapped, I only came to know that summons

had come from Patiala House Courts and I have to

appear there.''

liii)It is strange that though he claims that he

 did not know if any one was kidnapped from

 Diamond Palace on that day then how he could

 come to know about this fact from receipt of

 summons, as correctly asked by my Ld

 Predecessor that it was not written on his

 summon that someone was kidnapped. The

 witness immediately changed his version and

 stated that he did not come to know that

 someone had been kidnapped but only came to

 know that summons had come from Patiala

 House Courts and he was to appear. His such

 conduct shows that he must have met someone 387 who informed him to speak like this and then

he did not support the prosecution case. His

such conduct is supported by his testimony to

be discussed hereafter. The natural conduct of

the witness would have been to say before the

Court he is not aware of the present case.''

He testified that the summons were received by

his father and he told him that he had to

appear in the court but he did not ask anyone

or even his father as to why he was called in

the court and about what was his deposition.

He stated that earlier also he had come to the

court for this case on summons but outside the

court he was told that he was late and so he

went back and did not enter the court room. In

ans to court question he stated that on the last

date when he came to the court he gave his

summon to a person in black coat. He stated he 388 met Mr. Saxena the then SPP only today ie

 when his statement was recorded. He further

 stated that he had met Ghaziabad police in this

 court and was told to sit outside and he

 remained sitting outside the court upto 2pm. liv) The witness was questioned

 that he had made two statements before the

 court regarding the last occasion that he came

 to the court at about 11am and was told by an

 advocate that he had come late so he went

 back and his other statement that he came to

 the court met Ghaziabad police and kept

 waiting outside upto 2pm. He stated that his

 both statements were correct as the advocate

 met him and told him that he should go away

 as he was late but he came inside the court

 and thereafter went outside since he was

 having injury on his foot and Ghaziabad police 389 met him outside and he remained outside the

 court. Lateron this fact was confirmed by the

 court from SI JK Gangwar of Ghaziabad police

 who informed the court that this witness had

 come on the earlier date and he was told to

 wait outside and thereafter he was not

 traceable. lv) The allegation of the

 prosecution is that this witness was sent away

 by some counsel for accused persons as the

 witness himself has admitted that a person in

 black coat had told him outside the court that

 since he had come late so he went back and

 did not enter the court room. It is submitted

 that SI JK Gangwar has confirmed the presence

 of this witness on the earlier date of hearing in

 the court and he was told to wait outside but

 he was not traceable and it shows that he was 390 sent away purposely so as to tutor him to be a

 hostile witness when he appears next time

 before the court. lvi) It is seen from the evidence of

 this witness that at that time the prosecutor

 was Sh. SK Saxena, and during his testimony he

 admitted that he had seen him only on that

 day, the question then arises who was the

 advocate in black coat who sent him away on

 the pretext that he was late. It is to be seen

 who was to be benefited by his not appearing

 in the court as a witness or by being a hostile

 witness. The answer is obvious it is the accused

 persons. lvii) The testimony of this witness

 clearly shows that he made contradictory

 statement in the court itself when in his cross

 examination by SPP he stated that outside the 391 court room he was told that he had come late

so he went back and did not enter the court

room whereas in answer to the court question

he stated that he met Ghaziabad police in the

court and was told to sit outside and remained

sitting outside the court upto 2pm and that he

came inside the court and thereafter went

outside as he was having injury in his foot. In

one breath he stated that he did not enter the

court room and outside the court room a

person in black coat told him he was late so he

went away and in another breath he stated that

he entered the court, went outside since he had

injury in his foot where Ghaziabad police met

him and he waited till 2pm. In view of such

contradictory statement the explanation by SI

JK Gangwar that this witness had come to the

court on earlier date and was told to wait 392 outside but thereafter he was not traceable

 supports the version of the witness that a

 person in black coat in other words sent him

 away on the pretext that he was late. lviii) The witness further made

 contradictory statement, as in chief examination

 he stated he knew Vikas Yadav and Vishal

 Yadav his cousin brother but in cross

 examination he stated he had not seen them

 nor he knew them. This only reflects the

 conduct of the witness that he was under the

 influence of accused persons but still

 prosecution cannot claim its benefit for the

 reasons mentioned below. lix) The argument of the defence

 counsel is that the prosecution have declared

 PW 19 and PW 32 hostile without any reason

 as both these witnesses had not given the 393 physical description of the boys who had

 entered in the car alongwith another person

 wearing red colour kurta , churidaar pajama

 and white colour shawl nor they mentioned

 that they could identify those three persons

 who accompanied this specially dressed person.

 It is further submitted that the photographs of

 the person in red colour kurta were shown for

 the first time to the witnesses when their

 statements were recorded and that no TIP of

 the accused persons was conducted for their

 identification by these witnesses.

lx) I find force in the argument of the

 defence counsel that except the description of

 the clothes of one person going in a long car

 or Tata Safari, the description of other 3­4 boys

 was not given by them in their statement

 U/s161 CrPC . As per their statements U/s 161 394 Cr.PC it appears that they were also not shown

 the photographs of Nitish Katara at the time

 their statement U/s161 Cr.PC was recorded. It

 was required of the IO to have shown the

 photograph of Nitish Katara to both these

 witnesses when he made enquiries from them

 and recorded their statement U/s 161 CrPC and

 lateron after the arrest of the accused persons

 ought have arranged the TIP proceedings for

 their identification by these witnesses that these

 two accused were amongst those boys who sat

 in the long car / Tata Safari alongwith the

 person wearing red colour kurta, white pajama

 and white shawl. lxi) SI Anil Somania has admitted in

 his cross examination that he did not have the

 photograph of Nitish Katara which could be

 shown to PW 19 Jai Prakash Pandey and that 395 he had recorded the statement of Jai Prakash

Pandey on 17/2/02 and thereafter he did not

show the photo of Nitish to Jai Prakash Pandey

till today and did not record his supplementary

statement. He also did not call Jai Prakash

Pandey to participate in TIP of Vishal and Vikas

and he did not make any other effort to

conduct TIP of both the accused at any stage

till the filing of challan from the witness. This

is a lapse on the part of the prosecution that

though these two witnesses were examined to

establish the fact that Nitish Katara had

accompanied the accused persons in the car /

Tata Safari from Diamond Palace but neither

the photograph of Nitish Katara was shown to

PW 19 Jai Prakash Pandey whose statement

was recorded on 17/2/02 nor any TIP of the

accused persons was arranged for their 396 identification by both PW19 Jai Prakash Pandey

 and PW 31 Umesh Kumar. As such in my

 opinion the testimony of these two witnesses

 in no manner is helpful to the prosecution. 

lxii) The defence counsel has further

 submitted that there is no evidence on record

 that the person who came to call Nitish while

 he was taking dinner was Vishal Yadav, the

 accused. It is submitted that there was

 gathering of 600/ 700 persons and none of

 those persons has been cited or examined as a

 witness to prove that the said person was

 Vishal Yadav, the accused. It is submitted that

 Bharat Diwakar did not know the person who

 had come to call Nitish Katara and as per his

 testimony after Nitish could not be contacted

 on his mobile, he started enquiring in the

 Diamond Palace that whether the person 397 wearing red kurta was seen by somebody and

then he was told that he was talking with one

person namely Vishal Yadav R/o Rajnagar. .

It is submitted that no such person has been

examined by the prosecution who had

informed the name of that person as Vishal

Yadav r/o Rajnagar to Bharat Diwakar. It is

also submitted that even assuming that the

name of the person who took Nitish while he

was taking dinner, was Vishal it cannot be

presumed that he was accused Vishal Yadav son

of Sh Kamal Raj Yadav. The contention of

the defence counsel in my opinion would have

been more appropriate in the circumstances if

the prosecution had not produced any

evidence with regard to the presence of the

accused persons in the Diamond Palace and

thereafter outside the Diamond Palace and 398 again at Hapur Chungi in the company of the

deceased. In my opinion it cannot be a co

incident that accused Vishal Yadav was present

in the marriage function and someone with the

name of Vishal came and took away Nitish

Katara while talking to him in the presence of

Bharat Diwakar and thereafter accused Vishal

Yadav in the company of accused Vikas Yadav

and two more persons is seen in Tata Safari

bearing registration number of Punjab by two

constables at T point near Diamond Palace and

again at Hapur Chungi by PW 33 Ajay

Katara. Though PW 28 Ct. Inderjeet Singh

has tried to mislead the Court by making a

false statement to the effect that he had seen

accused Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav in a

long car which after being checked went

towards Hapur Chungi and that he had seen 399 deceased Nitish Katara in the Tata Safari

 alongwith two other persons and he was sitting

 in the front, this doubt has been cleared vide

 the testimony of PW 32 Ct Satender Singh who

 stated that accused Vikas Yadav came from the

 side of Diamond Palace in Tata Safari

 alongwith accused Vishal Yadav sitting on the

 rear seat and two more persons in the car, with

 window panes rolled down. lxiii) Moreover PW 32 Ct. Satender Pal

 Singh has not denied the presence of Nitish

 Katara in the Tata Safari when he was shown

 his photograph Ex PW 11/5. He only stated

 that he cannot say if he was present in the car.

lxiv) It is also argued by the defence

 counsel that no sane person would commit an

 offence of abduction in the presence of large

 gathering except where the vengeance is so 400 strong. The question is asked by the defence

 counsel as to why a person would kill another

 at one place and dump the dead body at

 another place. In my opinion the answer of the

 same can be given only by the perpetrator of

 the crime as this fact is within his special

 knowledge. So far the vengeance in the present

 case is concerned, it was definitely strong as the

 relations between Bharti and Nitish Katara were

 not acceptable to the accused persons. 

lxv) The defence counsel has further

 argued that in the present case no witness from

 the gathering of 600­700 persons attending the

 marriage of Shivani Gaur has been examined as

 a witness to the abduction of deceased by

 accused Vishal Yadav and the only witness

 examined by the prosecution ie PW25 Bharat

 Diwakar did not speak of any force used by the 401 person who took away the deceased from the

 place where he was taking dinner with PW25.

 In my opinion the aforesaid argument has no

 force. The definition of the term ''abduction'' is

 clear and unambiguous as per Sec. 362 IPC. To

 attract the provisions of Sec. 362 IPC the

 following ingredients are necessary to be proved

 by the prosecution: Thereafter Bharti asked her if Bharat and

Gaurav had not told her that Nitish had been

taken away by her brothers. The said testimony

of Neelam Katara has not been disputed in any

manner by accused persons during her cross

examination. From her said statement it is

proved on record that Bharti Yadav was aware

of the abduction of the deceased from Diamond

Palace and it is an additional link in the chain

of the circumstances against the accused 407 persons. been produced by prosecution that deceased was

last seen in the company of accused persons. ii) The prosecution has relied upon

the following authorities in support of the

evidence produced regarding the deceased last

seen in the company of accused persons: After that he went to the PS on 2.3.02 but IO of

the case did not meet him. He again went to

PS Kavi Nagar on 12.3.02 but IO did not meet him 418 as he was not available. On 18.3.02 he again

went to the PS and IO met him on that day and

he made statement to the IO about the fact seen

by him. viii) During chief examination Spl

PP for State asked the witness if he could

identify the Tata Safari but several objections

were raised by the defence counsels to his

identifying the Tata Safari on the ground that :­ 1. the witness had not stated the vehicle was

involved in any crime. 2. The witness was not witnessed to the recovery

of the vehicle. 3. The witness had not stated while giving the

registration No of the vehicle that he would be

able to identify the vehicle. ix) The objection was left open by

my Ld predecessor to be decided at the time of 419 final arguments. I find no substance in these

objections raised by the defence counsel at the

time of recording of chief examination of the

witness to the effect referred above for the

reasons that the prosecution case is that the

deceased was abducted and removed from

Diamond Palace in Tata Safari and they were

seen in the said vehicle alongwith deceased Nitish

by Ct Inderjeet Singh and Ct. Satender Singh at

T point near Diamond Palace, so it was necessary

for the prosecution to put the question to the

witness as to whether he could identify the Tata

Safari in which he had seen the deceased lastly

in the company of the accused persons. x) The witness then had gone down

stairs alongwith the Naib Court and representative

of the accused persons to look at Tata Safari

seized by the police. Thereafter he returned to 420 the Court and testified that it was the same

vehicle which was seen by him on the night of

16/17.2.02 which was driven by accused Vikas

Yadav on which he had also seen other persons

about which he had already stated. xi) During cross examination the

witness was confronted with his previous

statement Ex. PW 33/DA where it was not

mentioned that Tata Safari came from behind

from his left side. The word l eft was not

found recorded in his statement. It was also not

found recorded in the statement Ex PW 33/DA

that accused Vikas Yadav had talked to him in

uncivilised manner or thereafter he had gone to

Tata Safari. He was further confronted with his

previous statement to the effect that since his

scooter had stopped in the middle of the road

there was no sufficient passage for passing of the 421 vehicle as there was a pole on one side and that

there was mercury light at the spot or that he

had learnt about the involvement of the accused

persons in this case on 1.3.02. The witness

clarified that he had told all these facts to the IO.

He was further confronted with his previous

statement to the effect that he had stated to the

IO that he had come to the PS twice before

18.3.02 , whereas in his statement instead of twice

it is recorded he came several time at the PS.

He clarified that IO did not ask him the dates as

to when he visited the PS so he had no occasion

to tell the dates. The witness was categorically

questioned as to where he was residing in Delhi

at that time to which he answered that he was

resident of Braham Puri H No. D­50/1, Gali No.

10, Shahdara, Delhi where he lived in rented

accommodation from Sept 2001 to May 2001. 422 He also gave the name of his landlord Harish

Kumar. He further stated that he was a frequent

to Ghaziabad as several persons knew him and

he was in the profession of preparing horoscopes

and selling gems so he keep visiting people. He

stated that after Vikas Yadav had told him in a

very loud tone to remove the scooter, he instead

of removing the scooter first went to him He

admitted that except telling him to remove the

scooter Vikas Yadav had not told him anything .

After going near Tata Safari he came back and

removed the scooter and the entire episode

hardly took 2/3 minutes. He categorically and

with great clarity stated that the place where his

scooter had broken down not a single vehicle

could have passed without his removing his

scooter. The total width of the road where his

scooter broke down may be about 15 ft. Further 423 when his scooter broke down just in the middle

of the road, it was in a slanting position due to

which it was causing obstruction to the other

vehicles. He was questioned about the

surroundings of the place where his scooter broke

down and he testified that the place where his

scooter broke down is Hapur Chungi itself, there

is a round about and light was there and also

that he could draw the siteplan of the said place.

He further clarified that he had just reached on

the round about and the road leading from

round about to Delhi when the vehicle of the

accused persons came from the road coming from

Diamond Palace just behind him. He further

stated that he had crossed the round about and

landed on the road leading to Delhi when his

scooter broke down. He gave the description of

the road where his scooter broke down that there 424 is a divider in between the road . He admitted

during cross examination that there was kachha

path between the pucca road and PCO and he

voluntarily stated that due to this only Tata

Safari could not pass from him when his scooter

broke down and the Tata Safari would have to

pass from the kachha path. He admitted that

the headlight of the Tata Safari was on when

it stopped near his scooter. xii) He further sated that he read

Hindi newspaper regularly. Between 18th Feb to

28th Feb he read newspaper once or twice.

Regarding the question whether he used to

watch TV he sated that who does not watch TV

in modern times. During cross examination he

admitted that the media was giving news about

murder of Nitish Katara between 18th and 28th Feb

and accused persons were suspected as the 425 murderers . He stated that he had informed the

IO that in the media ie TV and newspapers the

photo of Nitish, the deceased who was murdered

being shown repeatedly and he used to read the

news about his murder. He learnt on 28.2.02

that Mrs Neelam Katara was the mother of the

deceased and was resident of Delhi but he did

not contact Neelam Katara and any of his family

members to give information as to what he had

seen on the night of 16/17.2.02. He voluntarily

stated that whatever he knew he told the police.

The witness was further questioned about the

visits to the PS on 2nd March 2002, 12th March

2002 and 18th March 2002 and about the vehicle

Tata Safari standing inside the PS as to whether

it was seen by him or was shown by the IO, SI

Anil Somania. xiii) The defence counsel tried to 426 extract from the cross examination of the witness

that he was related to the family of the deceased

the witness no doubt admitted that his full name

is Ajay Kumar Katara but he stated that he do

not use his surname. He admitted that his

surname is Katara. His grandfather's name is

Sugat Ram Katara. He voluntarily stated that

surname Katara was being used by his

grandfather and thereafter he never used it. He

stated that the address of his native village is

village Bamroli PS Dhoki District Agra. He

denied the suggestion that his full address is

house No. 433 Nagla Tal Village Bamroli Katara

PS Dhoki, District Agra. He denied that he has

any relation with the family of the deceased or

the family of Nishit Katara ( father of the

deceased) at any point of time lived in village

Bamroli PS Dhoki. He gave the names of his 427 parents as Sh.Manmohan Singh and Smt.

Pushadevi, the names of his brothers as Vijay

Kumar and Dev Dutt and the name of his wife is

Rita Katara. xiv) No evidence in defence was led

by the accused persons to prove that Ajay Katara

was making a false statement and he being

resident of H.No. 433 Nagla Tal village Bamroli

Katara PS Dhoki District Agra, was related to the

family of the deceased. xv) The witness gave the explanation

as to why he noted the number of Tata Safari.

The reason given is that accused had talked to

him in uncivilised manner and humiliated him

and he noted down the number with the

intention to report the matter but looking at the

fact that he was son of MP he dropped the idea.

He stated that he noted the number of the 428 vehicle on the slip on the basis of which he

gave the number to SO Anil Somani and

thereafter he torn it. xvi) He also gave the explanation as

to why he went to the PS on 2.3.02. He stated it

was being ascertained by him whether accused

persons were involved or not by the police

after the identification was established, he thought

that he must help the justice and then he went

to PS on 2.3.02. xvii) The witness was cross examined

with regard to Subhash Chand to whom he had

gone to meet at Ghaziabad on 16/17.2.02 and

was returning from his house when he had an

encounter with the accused persons in the

company of deceased and co accused Sukhdev

Pehalwan. The witness categorically stated that

Subhash Chand was in UP Police and was living 429 in police quarters in the Campus/ Ahata of

Prantiya Suraksha Bal. He denied the suggestion

that at the gate of the Campus a register was

maintained and for entering the Campus entry

was to be made in the said register. During cross

examination the witness also deposed about the

terror of Mr DP Yadav, the then MP in the area

of Ghaziabad . He admitted that during his stay

in Delhi either Mr DP Yadav or any of his

person did not harass or did anything to him. He

also stated that he was neither friendly nor

enmical nor on visiting terms with the accused

persons. xviii) The witness also deposed

about danger to his life of being a witness

against the sons of MP, who were involved in

the present case and in this regard he had told

the police Kavi Nagar to escort him to the court 430 safely and had also met IG Zone Meerut and told

him about danger to his life and that he was

provided security. xix) He categorically denied the

suggestion of the defence that he became witness

in the present case due to his close relations with

the deceased family and due to his belonging to

the same community as that of the deceased.

xx) He denied the suggestion that he

was not at Hapur Chungi on 16.2.02 as stated by

him. He further denied that he had visited PS

Kavi Nagar with Mrs Neelam Katara on several

occasions. It is also denied that he made false

statement under tutoring of the IO or he

deliberately did not disclose the names of his

neighbourers at Delhi rented house. He stated

that he knew several neighbourers He further

denied that there was enough space by the side 431 of the scooter which had broke down, for vehicles

to pass. He further denied that if a scooter is

parked on the road where it had broken down ,

in any condition vehicles can still pass. He also

denied that he was never resident of Delhi at any

time or he never visited the house of Subhash

Chand. xxi) The argument of the defence

counsel is that this witness is a planted witness

and that it reflects from his own conduct as his

statement was recorded by the police on 18.3.02

whereas he had allegedly seen Nitish Katara (now

deceased) lastly in the company of accused Vikas

Yadav and Vishal Yadav and their co accused

Sukhdev Pehalwan on the intervening night of

16/17.2.02. xxii) It is submitted that no

reasonable explanation has been given by the 432 witness as to why he did not approach the police

at the earliest. It is further submitted that the

witness has made improvements from his

statement recorded U/s 161 Cr PC which are

material and thus no reliance can be placed on

his testimony. It is further submitted that

prosecution has failed to produce any evidence

on record that the witness had visited the house

of any Subhash Chand, an employee of UP police

at Ghaziabad and was returning from his house

to Delhi at about 12.20/12.30 on the intervening

night of 16/17.2.02. It is further submitted that

there is no evidence on record that at that

relevant time the witness was resident of Delhi .

Further that the testimony of the witness to the

effect that his scooter broke down in the middle

of the road and as such the vehicle in which the

accused persons were travelling alongwith the 433 deceased which came from behind could not

pass through is not believable. It is submitted

that though it is not admitted that the accused

Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav were travelling in

Tata Safari alongwith Nitish Katara on that night

but at the same time it can be seen that the road

was enough wide for a Tata Safari to pass the

scooter of Ajay Katara which broke down on the

road. It is submitted that the witness had no

occasion in view of his own testimony to go to

Tata Safari to see as to who were the person

travelling in the same It is further submitted

that there is no explanation as to why this

witness had noted down the number of the Tata

Safari vehicle as no offence had taken place in

his presence and he did not hand over the slip

to he IO on which he had noted the number of

the Tata Safari. It is submitted that as per his 434 own testimony he had been reading newspaper

regularly and watching TV and he admitted that

media was giving news about murder of Nitish

Katara between 18th to 28th Feb and accused

persons were being suspected as the murderers

but he did not inform anyone that he had seen

the deceased in the company of the accused

persons on the intervening night of 16/17.2.02 at

Hapur Chungi. He did not disclose this fact either

to his landlord nor contacted the complainant

Neelam Katara nor informed the police till 18.3.02.

The defence counsel Sh KN Balgopal has termed

Ajay Katara as a slip witness as he claimed that

he had noted down the number of Tata Safari on

a slip on the basis of which he gave the number

to the IO but he did not hand over the slip to

the IO and tore it . He has further argued if he

had noted down the number of the vehicle of 435 accused persons why he did not hand over the

same to the police officials travelling in two jeeps

which passed through that route while he was

repairing the scooter. He has further argued

that this witness has claimed that there were

several vehicles passing from that road while

he was repairing his scooter but he did not

record the number of any such vehicle. The

answer to this question is that the witness had

no occasion to note down the number of any

other vehicle as he had no dispute with them

and the dispute had only arisen between the

witness and the accused persons travelling in Tata

Safari due to which he noted down its number. 

xxiii) The defence counsel has further

submitted that the statement of the witness to the

effect that Sh DP Yadav was terror in the area

does not match his conduct as if he was so 436 scared of Sh DP Yadav he would not have

approached the police against the accused persons

in the present case. xxiv) He has further argued that even

his presence at Hapur Chungi is doubtful . It is

submitted that though he has claimed to have

visited one Subhash Chand at Ahata of Prantiya

Suraksha Bal as he could not have entered the

said premises without making entry in the

register, though the witness has claimed that

there was no such register maintained and the

access was free. It is further submitted that no

investigation was carried out by the police in this

regard as to whether he had visited the house of

Subhash Chand on 16.2.02 It is submitted that

the premises where he claims to have visited is

an armoury as proved by DW 23 Inspt.

Satyavir Singh. It is submitted that in view of 437 the testimony of DW 23 Inspt Satyavir Singh

the presence of PW Ajay Katara is disputed as

this witness has categorically stated that for any

outsider the entry has to be made in the

register. xxv) The defence counsel has further

argued that PW 33 Ajay Katara was related to

Mrs. Neelam Katara and it is the same person

who had accompanied her to PS Kavi Nagar on

17.2.02 when she lodged the complaint and

thereafter he accompanied her to the mortuary in

Bulandshahar. So far his argument is concerned

the defence has failed to create any doubt with

regard to the truthfulness of the witness as one

Ajay Prasad who had accompanied Mrs. Neelam

Katara to PS Kavi Nagar on 17.2.02 and his

address was recorded by PW 1 Nem Pal Singh as

''AC H No. 500 Vasant Kunj New Delhi'' . 438 whether Ajay Prasad is the same person who has

appeared as PW33 Ajay Kumar/ Ajay Katara.

However, no such effort was made by defence.

PW 33 Ajay Kumar has specifically denied that

he was related in any manner to the family of

the deceased. Similarly PW 30 Neelam Katara

and PW 39 Nitin Katara have also denied the

suggestions to this effect. xxvii) The argument of the defence

counsel that PW 33 Ajay Katara was never

resided at Delhi does not find any support from

any evidence in defence. Pw33 Ajay Katara has

categorically denied that at the relevant time he

was resided in Delhi in Braham Puri H No. D­

50/1, Gali No. 10, Shahdara. And this could not

also be got verified by the defence. However, no 439 such effort was made. To the argument of the

defence counsel that PW 33 Ajay Katara did

not produce any document with regard to his

residence in Delhi, the witness has himself

explained that he stayed for a very short period

in Delhi, as such he did not possess any

document to this effect. xxviii) The defence has further

assailed the testimony of Ajay Katara as to why

he did not contact the IO through telephone. This

witness has specifically answered that he did not

note down the telephone number of the IO. Katara could not have seen the colour of kurta

worn by Nitish Katata since he had wrapped

shawl around his shoulders. He also argued that

even otherwise he could not have seen the colour 440 of the kurta as Ajay Katara was wearing the

dark glasses. Again there is no force in the

aforesaid argument as the photograph Ex PW

6/2 of the deceased shows that the manner in

which the shawl was worn by Nitish Katara. It is

seen from the photograph that the shawl was on

his shoulders covering his back , so colour of the

kurta from neck down was visible. Besides, PW 33

Ajay Katara has explained during cross

examination that he used dark glasses only

during day time and the defence did not suggest

him that he was making a false statement to this

effect. Besides, it has already come on record

through his testimony that there was a mercury

light so it cannot be said that it was not possible

for him to see the colour of the kurta.

xxx) The defence counsel has assailed

his testimony on the ground that his statement 441 was recorded after a month of the incident and

this delay is fatal to the prosecution. It is settled

law if he evidence of the witnesses is found to be

trustworthy and reliable and withstands searching

cross examination, it does not become

untrustworthy merely because he was examined

after delay by the IO. It is also seen that different

person react differently to incidents they

witnessed it is totally unrealistic court of law to

lay down as a principle of law of universal

application that when a witness witnessed the

crime he would definitely go out and disclose to

others what he had seen. xxxi) Keeping in mind that different

persons react differently to incidents they

witnessed, PW 33 Ajay Katara in my opinion

did not inform his landlord or Mrs Neelam Katara

who was not known to him, about what he 442 witnessed on the intervening night of 16/17.02.02

at Hapur Chungi nor he disclosed it to any other

police official except the IO , in my opinion this

was his way of reacting in that situation and for

this reason he cannot be termed as a false or

untrustworthy. xxxii) This opinion is based on the

judgment reported in 1998 Crl. LJ 493 where it

was held by Hon'ble Apex Court that the

testimony of an eye witnesses cannot be

disbelieved merely for the reason they did not

disclose the incident to anyone till they were

examined. xxxiii) In the present case the defence

during cross examination of this witness has

failed to elicit anything in the cross examination

to indicate that this witness was interested in

the prosecution of the accused persons. 443 xxxiv) The arguments of the defence

counsel is as to why he chose the SO to disclose

about his knowledge in respect of the incident

and not the other police officials or anybody else

including Neelam Katara or his landlord. It is

obvious that since the matter was sensitive and

considering the reputation of the accused persons

it was a wise decision on the part of the witness

not to have confided in any other person than

the IO as there was every possibility of the

information being leaked out. The complainant

was not known to him as such he could not have

gone to her to disclose the information. The

witness has also deposed about the danger he

had to his life while coming to the court and he

took the security for his protection. xxxv) So far the argument of the

defence counsel Sh KN Balgopal that he did not 444 give the slip bearing the number of Tata Safari in

which the accused persons were travelling to the

police vehicle passing through that road has no

force for the reason that there was no occasion

for him to complain to the police as he has

already explained that he dropped the idea of

complaining against the occupants of the vehicle

when he saw Vikas Yadav s/o M.P. was there

and there was terror of MP in that area. The

witness has further explained that Mr. DP Yadav's

terror is known to the world over and even to

the defence counsel. Moreover the witness has

only complained of the uncivilized behaviour of

accused Vikas Yadav which in my opinion did not

invite any criminal action against him. Besides,

the slip on which he noted down the number of

the Tata Safari became relevant when he came to

know of the involvement of the accused persons 445 through media in the present case. xxxvi) The other argument of the

defence counsel that he had been watching TV

from 17/2/02 onwards and still he did not go to

the police till 2/3/02 but he has no where stated

that since he was scared of DP Yadav that is why

he did not approach the police till 2/3/02. Again

this argument in my opinion is without any

merits. No doubt the witness had already clarified

that earlier he had dropped the idea of making a

complaint against the accused persons when he

found accused Vikas Yadav s/o Sh. DP Yadav was

in the vehicle and DP Yadav was a terror in the

area, it can be understood that this fear was still

in the mind of the witness but somewhere his

conscience pricked him on finding that the

accused persons were involved in a heinous

offence like abduction and murder of Nitish and 446 it changed his mind and thus he approached the

police against them even putting his own life at

stake. His such conduct is also explaining as to

why he did not inform about the knowledge of

having seen both the accused alongwith the

deceased Nitish Katara in Tata Safari bearing

No.PB 07 H 0085 at Hapur Chungi on the night

of 16­17/2/02 to the landlord or any other person

and he only wanted to disclose this fact to the IO

of the case. At the same time there is no material

on record to suggest that the witness had come

to know of the involvement of the accused

persons in the abduction and murder of deceased

Nitish Katara before 1/3/02. The witness has

himself given explanation that he did not

approach police since he wanted to be sure of

the involvement of the accused persons after

identify of the deceased was established. It is on 447 record that the identity of the deceased was

established not before 25/2/02 when the finger

prints from the dead body matched with the

finger prints of deceased Nitish from the record

of his driving license. There is no material on

record to show as to when this fact was disclosed

by the media that the unidentified deadbody was

of Nitish Katara and came to the knowledge of

the witness. Thus, I do not find any abnormal

conduct on the part of Ajay Katara in not

approaching the police before 2/3/02. The witness

has categorically stated during his cross

examination that he went to PS on 2/3/02 as he

thought he must help the justice. The said

conduct of the witness is appreciable who despite

knowing the reputation of accused persons

gathered courage and approached the police

against them. Merely for the reason that he did 448 not approach the police at the earliest , his

testimony cannot be thrown away as he has

withstood the test of lengthy cross examination.

xxxvii) In this context it is to be seen

whether he had any interest in the deceased to

be in haste to inform the police. If the witness

had been the relative of the deceased then he

would have immediately informed the police

about the incident but in the present case he was

in no manner related to the deceased and was in

no hurry to inform the police. Since he did not

act promptly, merely for this reason his

testimony cannot be thrown away as it was better

he informed the police with delay than not

reporting the matter at all. xxxviii) Besides, he has clarified that

he had visited the PS on 2/3/02 and thereafter on

12/3/02 but the IO could not meet him. To this 449 effect the statement of PW 35 SI Anil Somania is

relevant who stated that on 2.3.02 he proceeded

on investigation of this case at about 9.30 am

and to this regard he has proved on record GD

No. 14 Ex.PW 35/29. He further stated that he

came back after investigation at 23:25 hours on

2.3.02 and this fact also finds corroboration from

the GD No. 52 Ex PW 35/30. PW 33 Ajay Katara

claimed that on 12.3.02 he had again visited the

PS Kavi Nagar but could not meet IO, to that

effect PW 35 testified that on 12.3.02 he left the

PS at 11.10 am since it was Shivrati festival and

he was assigned duty of maintaining law and

order. The relevant departure and arrival entries

Ex.PW 35/41 and PW35/42 in the GD register

corroborates the testimony of PW35. The

testimony of PW35 to this effect has not been

disputed or questioned during his cross 450 examination by the counsel for both the accused.

As such it stands proved on record that PW 33

Ajay Katara is a witness of truth and had visited

the PS on 2.3.02 and then on 12.3.02 but could not

meet the IO since he was not available in he PS.

xxxix) The other contention of the

defence counsel is that the meeting of PW 33

with the IO on 18.3.02 is not proved on record

as IO has stated that he had recorded the

statement of PW 33 at 10 am at PS Kavi

Nagar , whereas PW 33 Ajay Katara has stated

during cross examination by the defence counsel

that he had met the IO on 18.3.02 between 11

am / 12 noon. However, in my opinion the

aforesaid discrepancy about the time is not of

much consequence as PW 35 has stated that he

had recorded the statement at 10 am and there

can be variation of time between the observation 451 of the two witnesses. xl) The defence counsel has further

argued as to why PW 33 had noted down the

number of Tata Safari. The answer to the

aforesaid question again depends from person to

person as to how a particular person reacts in a

particular situation. In the present case the

witness has categorically stated that accused Vikas

Yadav spoke to him in uncivilized manner.

Admittedly, as per the witness he only told him

to remove the scooter immediately but even this

one line was spoken in uncivilized manner which

provoked the witness to go near the vehicle of

the accused persons and per chance he noted the

presence of Nitish Katara alongwith the accused

persons. xli) The other argument of the

defence counsel that the witness did not mention 452 in his statement U/s 161 Cr.PC about the

uncivilized behaviour of Vikas, about the fact that

Tata Safari came from behind his left side, about

the fact that due to stopping of his scooter in the

middle of the road there was no sufficient

passage for passing of the vehicle , about the fact

that there was mercury light at the spot, the

witness has already been confronted with his

statement U/s 161 Cr.PC where he categorically

stated that he had mention this fact in his

statement to the IO. It was the duty of the

defence counsel to have questioned the IO during

his cross examination as to whether witness had

made any such statement to him and if so, why it

was not recorded by him. It would have been a

different situation if the IO had been cross

examined on these lines and had stated that the

witness did not state to him these facts. However, 453 in the present case, the IO was not cross

examined at all in this regard. It is held by the

Hon'ble Apex Court in the matter reported in AIR

2000 SC Page 1833 that

 ''r
 eading Sec. 161(2) with the
 explanation to Sec. 162 Cr.PC an
 omission in order to be significant must
 depend on whether the specific
 question,the answer to which is omitted
 was asked of the witness. In this case the
 IO was not asked whether he had put
 question to an eye witness ie wife of the
 deceased persons asking for details of the
 injuries inflicted or of the persons who
 had caused the injuries. It was held that
 the omissions were not contradictions in
 the particular context. ''

xlii) It is presumed that witness Ajay

Katara had made the statement correctly before 454 the IO whatever he stated before the court in his

chief examination but IO did not record the same.

As such it cannot be said that the testimony of

PW33 Ajay Katara was full of improvements or

contradictions. xliii) The other argument of the

defence counsel that in his statement before the

court he deposed about the uncivilized behaviour

of the accused Vikas whereas this fact does not

find mention in the statement U/s 161 Cr.PC of

the witness and thus it is an improvement, in my

opinion has no force as it is not an improvement

from his statement U/s161 Cr.PC but he has only

explained the behaviour of the accused, to the

effect that one line which the accused spoke to

the witness ie ''remove the scooter immediately''

was spoken in uncivilized manner.

xliv) The argument of the defence 455 counsel that since as per the witness he had last

seen Nitish Katara with the accused persons on

16­17/2/02 he should have immediately reported

the matter to the police is again of no

consequence as when he had last seen them

together he was not apprehending that there

would be any commission of offence for which he

should have lodged the complaint. It is only when

through media he came to know that on that

intervening night of 16­17/2/02 the deceased was

abducted and lateron was found murdered, the

witness got reasons to inform the police.

Regarding his conduct of parking his scooter in

the middle of the road it is submitted that as a

prudent person one will never park his vehicle in

such a way causing inconvenience to the

oncoming traffic but in the present case the

witness has claimed that his scooter was in the 456 middle of the road which shows his abnormal

conduct and unbelievable story. Again this

argument does not find support from the

testimony of Ajay Katara who has not stated at

all that his scooter was standing in the middle of

the road but he has categorically explained as to

how his scooter went out of order and how the

Tata Safari came from behind. In his cross

examination itself the witness has stated that he

had just reached on the round about and the

road leading from round about to Delhi when the

vehicle of the accused persons came from the

road coming from Diamond Palace just behind

him when his scooter broke down which means

that the vehicle of accused persons was following

his scooter and had to be stopped immediately

since the scooter of the witness broke down. So it

cannot be said that the scooter of the witness 457 broke down before the vehicle of the accused

persons came on the road and he was repairing

the scooter in the middle of the road. The

witness has no where so stated. It is also a

natural human conduct of a person that if his

vehicle stops on the road including the scooter

then instead of removing it on one side he would

make one attempt to restart it and in the present

case also it must have so happened. Hence, I find

no abnormality in the conduct of Ajay Katara. He

has stated that since his scooter had just broke

down in the middle of the road and scooter was

in slanting position it was causing obstructions to

the other vehicles. The witness has also testified

that there was kacha path also alongwith the

road but it appears that the distance between the

scooter and the vehicle Tata Safari was so short

that when the scooter just stopped on the road 458 the accused persons could not swerve their

vehicle towards kacha path to pass through and

as testified by the witness after he went and saw

the accused persons in the vehicle alongwith the

deceased he came back and removed his scooter

at one side and then their vehicle just passed

away. Now it is to be seen whether the road was

wide enough that despite the scooter breaking

down in the middle of the road, the accused

persons could pass through. To that effect PW

Ajay Katara has stated in his evidence that the

width of the road was about 15ft and there is no

suggestion to the contrary to the witness during

his cross examination in this regard. The defence

counsel has stated that IO of the case SI Anil

Somania has testified that the width of road was

20ft and as per statement of DW13 Sarvesh

Kumar Harit Asst Engineer PWD, UP examined in 459 defence the width of the road as per the relevant

entries in the register containing road details of

the year 2002 the width of the road from

milestone 22 ­ 27 (22 being Hapur Chungi) is 15

meters on both the side including the central

verge and the width of the central verge is 1

meter. xlv) Admittedly, the IO did not

prepare any siteplan of the spot though PW33

Ajay Katara categorically stated that he had

accompanied the IO and pointed out the spot and

at the same time testimony of DW13 does not

inspire credence as he did not produce the

siteplan of the spot from the office record but

the one prepared at his instance by the draftsman

a day before he was to appear in the court which

is Ex.DW13/1. There is no evidence as to under

whose instructions he got the aforesaid siteplan 460 prepared. Besides, the witness has admitted that

he had not taken the draftsman to the spot, to

see the site and prepare the siteplan. He claimed

that the photographs Ex.DW13/4 & 5 were of the

Hapur Chungi. However, he failed to depose as to

when these photographs were clicked. He

admitted during his cross examination that in the

year 2002 the round about of Hapur Chungi was

bigger in size than as it is on date. He also

admitted that at present there is a raised platform

meant for the traffic police to regulate the traffic.

He admitted that in the siteplan Ex.DW13/1 he

had not shown the position of urinal in the

siteplan in the middle of the turning point but

towards the side of Delhi. His testimony shows

that he had not visited the spot as claimed by

him as he did not know the correct details of the

site though he claimed that he had visited the 461 site a day before coming to the court and had

prepared the siteplan . He could not say if there

was a lamp post of mercury light on the road

from the side of Ghaziabad towards round about

or if there was any electric pole near the board

of his department displaying the distance of Delhi

as 22 kms on the central verge on the road going

towards Delhi. He stated that the bus stop near

the spot was at a distance of 1km from the urinal

towards Delhi side but at the same time he stated

he do not remember if there is any bus stand at

a distance of 125 ft from the urinal. He also could

not tell if there is any PCO booth just behind the

bus stand. He admitted that in the photographs

Ex.DW13/4 & 5 the raised platform used by the

traffic police is not appearing. In view of his said

statement it is not proved by the defence on

record that these are the photographs of the spot 462 where the accused persons were seen last in the

company of deceased by PW33 and of the same

time. However, from the testimony of this witness

it is proved that there is change in the site since

from the time of incident as he admitted that

earlier there was a bigger round about and now

there is a small round about only with a raised

platform to be used by the traffic police for

regulating traffic. The testimony of this witness

does not inspire any credance as no authenticated

siteplan of the spot at the time of incident is

placed on record . It is observed that no one had

authorised him to get prepared the siteplan

Ex.DW13/1 and he prepared the same without

even the knowledge of Executive Engineer. His

appearance before the court also shows that he

has not been authorised by his Department to

appear as a witness. It appears that the witness 463 on his personal level appeared before the court at

the instance of the accused persons.

xlvi) Moreover, when no suggestion

was given to PW33 with regard to his testimony

that width of the road was 15ft, it is deemed to

be admitted by defence. Besides, I am of the view

that even if the width of the road was 20ft still

sometimes situation arises like in the present case,

when a vehicle is following another which for

any reason suddenly stops, the vehicle following

gets no opportunity to take his vehicle left or

right and brakes are required to be applied by

the following vehicle. Similar is the situation in

the present case as the vehicle of accused was

following the scooter of PW33 which suddenly

stopped, as such accused too had to stop his

vehicle due to which he in uncivilised manner

told PW33 to remove his scooter. Besides, PW33 464 has clarified that there was pole on one side of

the road where his scooter went out of order as

such, Tata Safari could not pass without removing

his scooter. xlvii) From the total evaluation of the

testimony of Ajay Katara I find that he is a

witness of truth and there was no reason for him

to make a false statement either to the IO or

before the court against accused persons when he

was neither related to the deceased nor was on

enmical terms with the accused persons. I fail to

understand that if he had not been a witness of

truth why he would take the risk of his life by

deposing against the accused persons to support

Neelam Katara. The defence has failed to create

any doubt on the truthfulness of the witness. 

xlviii) The defence has attempted to

bring material on record that PW33 Ajay Katara is 465 a false witness and that he was resident of

Village Bamroli Katara, Distt. Agra. To that effect,

DW20 Adv. BP Mittal has been examined who

testified that he had filed a divorce petition in

the Distt. Courts Bulandshahar on behalf of

Mamta Katara against Ajay Katara. He stated that

the matter was compromised between the parties

on 26/7/04 and the decree was passed by the

court on 27/7/04. He produced the certified copy

of the divorce petition Ex.DW20/A, certified copy

of the written statement filed by Ajay Katara as

Ex.DW20/B, the order of the court as Ex.DW20/C

and the decree of the court as Ex.DW20/D. He

testified that in the petition Ex.DW20/A Mamta

Katara had given the address of her matrimonial

house as Village Bamroli, Distt. Agra. At the same

time he admitted that this address was denied by

Ajay Katara in para No. 3 of the written 466 statement Ex.DW20/B and he gave the

matrimonial address as Sector 11E, 115 Pratap

Vihar, Ghaziabad. xlix) The aforesaid witness is of no

help to the accused persons as the petition

Ex.DW20/A filed by Mamta Katara against Ajay

Katara by itself does not prove that he was

resident of Village Bamroli Katara. Moreover, Ajay

Katara in his written statement Ex.DW20/B denied

this fact. l) The other witness examined by the

accused persons to prove the involvement of the

witness in a case U/s 498A/323/506 IPC at the

instance of Smt. Tanu Chaudhary, his wife, is

DW24 Sunil Kumar Sharma, Ahlmad of the court

of CJM Ghaziabad. Again this witness is of no

help to the defence as he admitted that in the

aforesaid case, the police filed cancellation report 467 dtd 17/2/07 Ex.DW24/P1. li) Though the defence has

vehemently argued that PW33 is a liar and was in

litigation with his wives, however, the two

witnesses examined by the defence to this effect

as referred above could not prove this fact that

Ajay Katara is a liar. Besides, any litigation

between Ajay Katara with his wives is his

personal matter and has no bearing upon the

present case. lii) Thus, the defence has failed to

prove on record that he is a false witness. 

liii) In view of the above discussion it

is proved that he is not an interested witness qua

the complainant nor enmical towards the accused

persons. He has withstood the test of cross

examination with some minor contradictions /

omissions which occur in the normal course of 468 events and can be ignored also. The argument of

the defence counsel that he did not hand over

slip on which he had noted down the number of

Tata Safari in the circumstances of the present

case is of no consequence particularly when the

vehicle Tata Safari bearing registration No. PB 07

H 0085 had already been recovered by the police

in furtherance of the disclosure statement of the

accused persons and before the disclosure

statement was made by the accused persons the

reference of Tata Safari had already been made

in the statement of PW28 Ct.Inderjeet Singh and

PW32 Ct. Satender Singh and even in the

statement of Bharti Yadav Ex.PW35/AB recorded

on 2/3/02. liv) The other argument of the

defence counsel Sh.SK Sharma for accused Vishal

Yadav that the witness testified that prior to 469 16/2/02 he was not friendly with accused Vishal

and Vikas Yadav then how could he identify that

they were Vishal and Vikas. It is pertinent to

mention that the witness has categorically

testified that he knew Vikas Yadav and Vishal

Yadav and a stout pehalwan namely Sukhdev. It

is not necessary for a person to be friendly or to

be enmical to identify the other person. Accused

Vikas Yadav being son of DP Yadav who was the

MP of the area was a known figure and it has

already come in the testimony of other witnesses

namely Ct. Inderjeet and Ct. Satender that

accused Vikas and Vishal used to roam about

together so it was not a big thing for Ajay Katara

to know them and identify them. Moreover no

suggestion was given to Ajay Katara during cross

examination that he did not know the accused

persons before 16­17/2/02. lv) Adv. SK Sharma has further

argued that the testimony of the witness that the

windows of Tata Safari were open when he saw

the accused persons in the Tata Safari whereas it

was in the month of February and it was cold so

there was no reason for the accused persons to

keep the windows of the vehicle open. Again the

cross examination of Ajay Katara shows that no

such suggestion was given to the witness that he

did not see the windows of the vehicle open.

Besides, merely for the reason that it was winter

season it cannot be lost sight of the fact that in

mid February the cold is not unbearable and

besides, since the scooter of the witness had

stopped ahead of the vehicle and it s quite likely

that before he cold turn back and respond to the

dictates of accused Vikas the window panes were

rolled down by the occupants of Tata Safari. 471 Rather in my opinion it is normal human

conduct, in such circumstances for the occupants

to roll down the window panes. So there was

nothing abnormal about the statement of Ajay

Katara in this regard. Besides, PW32 Ct. Satender

Singh has also categorically stated that when he

checked Tata Safari bearing registration No. of

Punjab driven by accused Vikas Yadav with three

persons including accused Vishal Yadav, the

window panes were rolled down. lvi) As argued by the defence counsel

there is no evidence on record that the witness

had been repairing the scooter in the middle of

the road rather it is proved on record that the

moment his scooter went out of order and

stopped, the vehicle of the accused persons

reached there and he was asked by accused Vikas

in uncivilized manner to remove same 472 immediately. lvii) Besides, it is seen from the cross

examination that no suggestion has been given to

the witness that the accused persons alongwith

Nitish and their co­accused Sukhdev were not

present in Tata Safari at Hapur Chungi on the

intervening night of 16­17/2/02.

lviii) The defence to create doubt

about truthfulness of PW33 examined DW23

Satyavir Singh. This witness was examined to

prove that without making an entry in register an

outsider cannot enter the residential complex 47th

Battalion, Ghaziabad whereas PW33 claimed to

have gone on 16/2/02 to meet his co­villager

Subhash. lix) I have gone through the

statement of DW23 Inspt Satyavir Singh Company

Commandor, 41 Battalion, who testified that he 473 was residing at the residential complex , 47th

Battalion, Ghaziabad for the last 14 years

alongwith his family. That 47th Battalion is

equipped with sophisticated weapons to fight

against terrorism and fundamentalists. In the

residential complex itself there is armoury and

magazine where arms and ammunitions are

stored and for its security the residential complex

is surrounded by a wall and there in entry point

and exit point and line police is posted on both

these points for 24 hours. He stated that the

register is maintained at the entry point and

whosoever enters from outside the complex and

does not belong to PAC whether its 47th or 41th

Battalion , entry is made in the register. He stated

that only residents of the complex are not

supposed to make any entry. He further stated

that if an outsider visits the complex, date of 474 visit, name, address, the person whom they want

to visit, the time of visit, purpose of visit, the

person visiting is on foot or any vehicle and the

time the person leaves the complex, are all

entered in the register. He stated that a person

can enter and exit from both the gates and

register is maintained at both the gates. It is

stated that even the entry of vegetable vendor

and milk vendor is secured by the entry passed

and is made in the register. Even the vehicle No.

is also mentioned in the register on which the

outsider enters the complex. This witness was

thoroughly examined by the Spl.PP for State.

Though he claims to be resident of this complex

for 14 years he could not tell the area where the

complex of the 47th Battalion is situated. He

stated that he never remained posted at any

entry or exit gate and stated that it was the duty 475 of the line police to remain at both the entry and

exit gate. He also failed to produce ay register

maintained at both the gates. He failed to

produce any record with regard to the passes

issued to the milk vendors and vegetable vendors

and hawkers from the office of Commandant.

PW33 Ajay Katara in his cross examination had

categorically stated that no such register was

being maintained at the gate of PSC complex and

further the boundary wall of PSC complex was

broken at certain places and anybody could exit

and enter from these broken portions without any

check. It is to rebut the testimony of PW33 Ajay

Katara, the defence witness DW23 Inspt Satyavir

Singh has been examined . However, admittedly

he never remained on duty at the gate of PAC

complex nor he has produced any record of the

registers being maintained at the gate. The best 476 evidence the defence could have produced would

have been of the security guard at the gate of

the PAC Complex alongwith the register to

disprove or atleast to create a doubt with regard

to the truthfulness of PW33 Ajay Katara. However,

in my opinion DW23 in no manner was

concerned with the maintenance of any register

at the gate except that he was resident of that

complex though to that effect also he has not

produced any record. Even assuming that the

witness is residing there, without production of

the register maintained at the gate of PAC

Complex , his testimony is not substantiated. The

argument of the prosecution that as DW23 has

admitted that there are about 1000 families

residing in the complex and they are allowed free

exit and entry, it would have been difficult to

monitor the movement of 4000­5000 people and 477 to recognise them also this fact itself shows that

maintenance of the register at the residential

complex of PAC is not possible. Besides, the

argument of the defence counsel that PAC

Complex is impregnable fortress and contains

strategic armoury, due to which ingress and

egress is strictly restricted and only inmates of

the complex can move freely. However, no such

evidence has been produced in defence that the

PAC Complex is consisting of armoury and

magazine. No record in this regard has also been

produced in defence. It is pointed out by the

Spl.PP that the armoury is a separate unit and

specifically guarded by the quarter guards and

does not form part of the residential complex due

to which entry and exit of the outsider needs to

be restricted. I find no cogent reason as to why

this witness has been examined in defence 478 whereas if the accused persons wanted to

discredit the testimony of Ajay Katara about his

visit to PAC Complex without making any entry

in the register at the gate for the reason that no

register was maintained there, the best witness

would have been from the concerned

department / incharge of the security guards at

the gate or security guards on duty alongwith the

record of the registers maintained there. So even

this attempt of defence to create doubt about the

truthfulness of PW33 has failed. The prosecution

in view of the testimony of PW33 has proved

beyond reasonable doubt that Nitish Katara was

last seen alive in the company of accused persons

in Tata Safari No. PB 07 H 0085 at 12:20 /

12:30am on the night of 16­17/2/02 at Hapur

Chungi. lx) It is pertinent to mention that the 479 matter was adjourned on 22.4.2008 to 14.5.08 for

fixing the date for pronouncement of the

judgment. Before that a new development took

place in the present case when on 12.5.2008

advocate Sh. GK Bharti moved an application

on behalf of accused Vikas Yadav and informed

the Court that sting operation was conducted on

PW 33 Ajay Katara, during which he admitted

certain important facts relating to the present

case and that the news of the sting operation is

published in 'Metro Now' dtd. 12.05.08. It is

further submitted that vide this CD PW 33 had

categorically admitted that he is not a witness to

the incident, he had done a favour to the

complainant being closely related and he had

planted evidence on the accused persons to rope

them in the present case. Alongwith the

application he furnished the copy of the 480 newspaper and two DVDs containing the entire

sting operation. Notice of this application was

given to the prosecution. The VCDs were

visualized in the Court on the laptop. The

arguments were heard on the application of the

defence for summoning the press reporter

alongwith the relevant documents and other

witnesses to prove the sting operation in the

Court. The matter was adjourned for orders for

24.5.08. A day before that on 23.05.08 Ajay

Katara appeared in the Court alongwith his

counsel and moved an application alongwith an

affidavit admitting the contents of the VCDs

and submitted that on 25.3.08 he was with

Subhash Yadav and both of them had drinks.

Subhash Yadav was asking him inquisitive

questions related to the case and in a bid to

confuse him he made certain absurd, false and 481 unnecessary statements specially for the reason he

knew that Subhash Yadav had connections with

Sh DP Yadav and whatever he said would

reach him. He claimed that however he was not

aware of that he was on surveillance and his

words were being recorded. He further

mentioned in the application that on 23.4.08

Subhash Yadav again called him since the

witness was interested getting into the property

dealing business. When he went to meet him in

his office he was offered drinks and when he

was in drunken condition and under the total

influence of liquor he was again asked about

the case and he in drunken bravado and to

misguide him made some unwarranted,

unnecessary and absurd remarks which infact

were not at all true. It is further mentioned in

his application that he uttered such remarks for 482 the welfare of his son as they were threatening

him that in case he did not help them they

would kill his son. It is also mentioned that

some intoxicant might have been mixed in his

drinks by Subhash Yadav, who had threatened

him again that his child was in the custody of Sh

DP Yadav and would be killed by him. Since he

had not seen his wife and son for more than 8

months, he was terrified about his son's safety.

Regarding his conversation with Subhash Yadav

in respect of gift of cinema hall to him,

allotment of gas agency, the blood theory on

hammer and election visit etc, he submitted that

these were deliberately uttered to misguide, for

the welfare of his son, who is in their custody

for the last eight months and his wife. He once

again reiterated that since he was intoxicated

by Subhash Yadav, the entire statement was 483 made by him under extreme fear and in an

inebriated condition. He further mentioned in his

application that he will stand by his previous

statements made by him before the Court on

31.5.03 and 27.7.07 and the same are truthful and

final. He further mentioned that even if he is

killed his statement before the Court should be

taken as his final and truthful statement. 

lxi) In view of the admission of the

sting operation by PW 33Ajay Katara though he

claimed that he had made such statements out

of fear and to misguide Sh DP Yadav since he

was apprehending danger to the life of his son,

the application of accused Vikas Yadav U/s 311 Cr.PC moved on 12.5.08 was disposed off as

infructuous at the instance of Sh GK Bharti,

adv as he did not press this application.

Thereafter another application moved on behalf 484 of accused Vikas Yadav U/s 311 Cr.PC for

summoning Subhash Yadav, Mr.Sharma, Ajay

Katara, his security guards and other relevant

witnesses Tanu Chaudhary wife of Ajay Katara

and her parents, was also disposed off vide

order dtd. 27.5.08. lxii) The counsel for accused Vishal

Yadav addressed further arguments with regard

to the conduct of PW 33 Ajay Katara in the light

of sting operation. However, no submissions

were made in this regard by the counsel for

accused Vikas Yadav. As such the submissions

made by Sh RK Anand, adv on the two

applications U/s 311 Cr. PC dtd. 12.5.2008 and

dtd.26.5.2008 are to be taken into consideration

to appreciate the conduct of Ajay Katara as to

whether his testimony before the Court in the

light of sting operation inspires any credence 485 and whether any weightage can be given to

the sting operation. lxiii) Sh SK Sharma, counsel for

accused Vishal Yadav has assailed the testimony

of PW Ajay Katara that in view of the sting

operation he is a false witness and made false

statement on oath before the Court when

examined as PW 33. It is submitted that in his

conversation with one Subhash Yadav and Mr.

Sharma he admitted that he was busy in

election when the incident happened. Further that

the blood of Neelam Katara was planted on

hammer .Further that he was related to Neelam

Katara and she had transferred a cinema hall at

Panipat in his favour. It is submitted that since

he is the only witness whose testimony to the

effect that he had seen Nitish Katara last alive in

the company of the accused persons, the 486 prosecution is relying upon, but in view of

sting operation his testimony cannot be termed

as reliable. It is submitted that sting operation

contains his voluntarily statement hence accused

persons are entitled to acquittal. 

lxiv) On the other hand, Spl.PP for

State has submitted that witness in view of his

affidavit has clarified that these statements were

made by him under threat of Sh DP Yadav that

he would kill his son and to mislead as he knew

his said statement would be conveyed to Sh DP

Yadav by Subhash Yadav who was close to

Sh DP Yadav. lxv) I have heard the conversation

between Ajay Katara and Subhash Yadav and

Mr.Sharma as contained in the CD. Now it is to

be seen what is the effect of the said statement

of Ajay Katara in the CD, on his statement 487 before the Court recorded on oath. recorded on 31.5.2003 and he was subjected to

grueling cross examination by the counsel for

both the accused persons but nothing material

could be extracted. lxvii) The court record also speaks

that PW Ajay Katara had been continuously

receiving threats from the side of accused

persons and even police was harassing him at

the instance of Sh DP Yadav, order sheet dtd.

31.05.2003 and 30.7.2003 speaks of such

pressure and threats upon the witness. Besides,

the applications dtd. 15.10.07and 29.10.07 also

shows that the witness was put under lot of

pressure and he had threat to the life of his son,

his wife and in laws. Nodoubt, as per record 488 Ajay Katara was residing separately from

his wife and son but that does not severe off

his relation with his son and likelihood of any

harm being caused to his son would definitely

put him under pressure and in such

circumstance he would do anything to save

his son's life and even his own life. FIR No.

37/08 lodged on 03/03/08 by Ajay Katara also

speaks of threats to the life of his son. So it

cannot be said that the witness took this

defence for the first time in the Court vide his

application and affidavit dtd. 23.5.08. The

aforesaid FIR also finds mention that pressure

was being put upon him to write an

affidavit in favour of accused persons or his son

would be eliminated. lxviii) The contention of the defence

counsel that in the CD the witness does not 489 appear to be under any pressure is of no

consequence as if he had shown any such

pressure then the purpose of the witness to

mislead DP Yadav would not have been served.

The perusal of CD shows that he was put

specific questions in this regard and witness

answered the same. The CD started with

questions from Subhash Yadav: 313 Cr.PC the elections were over on14.2.02. 

lxxi) Similarly there is no admission

by the witness in the CD that he had any

relationship between Neelam Katara. When in the

CD the witness was asked whether his grand

father and grand father of Nitish Katara were

brothers, the witness did give some answer but

that portion is edited, which shows that witness

did not admit any such relationship. Merely the

witness explained about the background of Nishit 491 Katara, the father of the deceased Nitish Katara

does not lead to any inference that he was

related to them in any manner as his knowledge

could be based on any other information also.

Besides, all Kataras cannot be termed as relatives.

In the CD itself the witness has stated that there

are so many Kataras living at different places

such like in Himachal Pradesh, Gurgaon, Agra

and there are 10 lacs of Kataras and it does not

mean that he was his brother. lxxii) Similarly about the statement of

the witness before Subash Yadav that the death

of Nitish was due to fire shot is against the

Medical Science/ Jurisprudence. As per Modi's

Jurisprudence the bullet injury causes

Gutter fracture, whereas in the present case the

fracture on the skull of the deceased was opined

by PW3 Dr Anil Singhal as comminuted fracture 492 which cannot be caused by any stretch of

imagination with a bullet shot. lxxiii) Similarly the statement of Ajay

Katara in the CD that he had smeared the blood

of Neelam Katara on the hammer as blood group

of Nitish and Neelam was same is again a

misleading statement, since no blood group was

reported by the chemical examiner. Moreover, it is

the accused persons who had agitated in the

course of final arguments as to why the blood

group on the hammer was not asked from the

expert .If the testimony of Ajay Katara in CD

which is not recorded on oath is believed to be

correct then there was no reason for the IO not

to ask for the blood group from the expert as it

would have helped him in connecting the accused

persons positively with the commission of offence.

lxxiv) Regarding the conduct of Ajay 493 Katara it is observed in the CD that he was

feeling proud of himself to be a witness in this

case as he had earned name and even if a

person gets Rs. 1 crore but name is not there its

useless. Similarly in the CD he stated that he

had told the father of Nitish that he would not

sell himself even for Rs. 100 crores.

lxxv) After observing the conduct of

the witness from the sting operation, now it is to

be seen what is the worth of this conversation of

the witness with Subhash Yadav and Mr Sharma

which is not recorded on oath and whether this

statement can give any benefit to the accused

persons over the statement of the witness

recorded on oath as PW 33. In Nisar Khan Vs. State of Uttaranchal reported in (2006) 9 Supreme Court Cases 386

wherein it is held that : Particularly when he did not make this statement

voluntarily as explained by him in his affidavit

that he had apprehension to the life of his son at

the instance of DP Yadav regarding which he

also lodged a complaint with the police vide

FIR No 37/08 which was prior to the sting

operation, so as such it cannot be said that the

witness took this defence for the first time vide

his affidavit before the Court on 23.5.08. Besides,

it is also seen that his statement in the sting

operation is actually misleading about the blood

on the hammer , the injury caused on the skull

of the deceased by fire arm . Besides, as

observed above it is no where mention in his 500 entire conversation that on the night of

16/17.2.02 he was busy in election and had not

seen Nitish Katara in the company of the accused

persons and their co accused Sukhdev Yadav in

Tata Safari No PB 07H 0085 at Hapur Chungi

at mid night. It is observed from the court

record that on 31.5.03 the day the witness was

examined as PW 33 , he moved an application

that he was being pressurised by the accused

persons not to appear as a witness and there

were the threats to his life and property and he

was insecure. On this application the matter was

referred to Director General of Police Lucknow

and IG Police Meerut Zone for talking necessary

steps for security of the witness. Record further

speaks that on 22.7.03 he again moved an

application that he was harassed by the police of

Ghaziabad at the instance of Sh DP Yadav and 501 was involved in a false case U/s SC Act in

connivance with the police by Saroj Yadav ,

President of Mahila Morcha congress and a

relative of Mr DP Yadav. The perusal of the

record further shows that he again moved an

application to the court on 15.10.07 that he was

being harassed by Ms DP Yadav and was involved

in false cases though lateron the same were

scrapped. He specifically mentioned in the said

application that he was threatened to be crushed

under a truck or to be burnt alongwith his family

members in a brick kiln. He also alleged that

Mr DP Yadav was looking for an opportunity to

kill his wife, son and his parents in law and then

falsely implicate him in the case. He also alleged

that he had received threats from DP Yadav

through Dr BK Sharma belonging to Rashtriya

Paravarthan Dal that he would be cut into 502 pieces of 10 grams each and then burnt. This

application was also marked to the DIG Meetrut

Zone for taking necessary action.

lxxvii) The other application dtd.

29.10.07 moved by Ajay Katara is also on record

wherein it is mentioned that eight attempts were

made on his life at the instance of Sh DP Yadav

and that his wife Tanu Chaudhary and his son

Priyanshu Katara were under his influence and

DP Yadav had threatened to kill them. All the

circumstances are enough to speak about the

constant pressure upon the witness, before and

after he gave his testimony as PW 33 on

31.5.03. The pressure on other prosecution

witnesses is also apparent from the fact that

except PW 33 the other public witnesses in one

or the other way did not support the prosecution

case. Even the police officials resiled from their 503 previous statements. I am conscious of the fact

that a human being, however, a strong person

may be sometimes, a stage comes when he

succumbs to the pressure. In the present case also

I find force in the affidavit dtd 23.5.08 of Ajay

Katara that he made the statement to Subhash

Yadav and Mr Sharma as contained in the CD of

sting operation under threats to the life of his

son and to misguide Mr DP Yadav. lxxviii) In the above circumstances, in

the light of the authorities referred above, no

weightage can be given to the statement of Ajay

Katara as recorded in the sting operation over his

statement recorded on oath as PW 33 .

Particularly in view of his affidavit dtd 23.5.08

that he stand by his previous statement in the

Court recorded on 31.5.03 and 27.7.07 and that

these statements are truthful and final and he 504 will stand by the same . He further deposed in

his affidavit that even if he is killed his these

statement should be treated as final and truthful.

lxxix) The contention of the defence

counsel that in the light of the sting operation

the testimony of PW 33 recorded on oath has

to be discarded, in my opinion has no force as it

has been held by the Hon'ble supreme Court in

the authorities referred above that the

statements of the witnesses recorded on oath as

PWs carries more weight and are truthful and

reliable then the statement of the witness made

in the circumstance when he was won over or

put under pressure, threat or intimidation on

account of money power, muscle power of the

accused persons. lxxx) So far the present case is

concerned, the statement of Ajay Katara in the 505 sting operation is not on oath, whereas he was

examined on oath as PW 33 and fully supported

the prosecution case. The witness has also filed

an affidavit that whatever he stated on oath

before the Court as PW33 is true and he stands

by his said statement. Thus, in my opinion the

statement of Ajay Katara in the CD of sting

operation recorded after lapse of about 5 years

of his examination as PW 33 in the Court and

keeping in mind that during this period he was

constantly under pressure due to the money

power and muscle power of Sh. DP Yadav, the

father of accused Vikas Yadav does not effect in

any manner his testimony as PW 33. It is also

important to note that in the authority reported

in 2006 (II) AD (Cr.) SC 16 even the subsequent

statements of the witnesses recorded on oath

were held to be inadmissible by the Hon'ble 506 Apex Court on the ground that these were made

by the witnesses under pressure. In the aforesaid

case PW 8 and PW9 made statement U/s 164 Cr.PC on 21.9.89 and were examined in then

Court on 18.12.90 as Pws. These witnesses on

16.8.94 filed an affidavit that their statement made

before the Magistrate was under pressure, tutored

by police of Madhav Nagar and due to their

pressure statements were recorded. Vide their

affidavitthey completely resiled from their

previous statements recorded before the Court as

Pws. They stated that they did not see any Mar

Peet and who inflicted injuries. They further

stated that they did not see any incident at all

nor any person. Both these witnesses were

allowed to be examined as DW 1 & DW 2

Juxtaposed as DW 1 and DW 2 . It was held

that Trial Court rightly rejected their testimony as 507 DW 1 and DW 2 for the reason that they did

not lodge any complaint against police to any

Court or to any authority about threats and

coercion during the period when they were

examined as PW 8 and PW9. lxxxi) From the aforesaid authority it

is amply clear that once the statement of the

witness was recorded on oath, the witness was

cross examined and discharged, thereafter he

cannot be allowed to perjure himself by resiling

from the testimony given earlier in the court on

oath. In view of the above discussion in the

present case also no weightage can be given to

the conversation of Ajay Katara with Subhash

Yadav and one Mr Sharma as contained in the

CD over and above his testimony as PW 33 for

the reason the witness was under constant threat

and pressure from Mr DP Yadav, the father of 508 accused Vikas Yadav. lxxxii) The testimony of PW 33 has

already withstood the test of cross examination

and there is no reason to disbelieve the same.

lxxxiii) Now it is to be seen whether

defence has led any such evidence to create

doubt about the truthfulness of the prosecution

case. denied their presence inside or outside the

Diamond Palace at around 12 am on 17.2.02 and

at Hapur Chungi alongwith Nitish Katara and

have claimed that at about 11:30 pm on 16.2.02

they were present at the house of DW 1 Ashok

Gandhi. ii) Both the accused persons have

taken a ''plea of alibi '' that on 16/2/02 they had 509 gone to attend the ring ceremony of the son of

DW1 Ashok Gandhi and thereafter accused Vikas

Yadav left for Karnal since the next day in the

morning there was a havan and in the afternoon

there was a ring ceremony at Karnal. He stated

that after he left for Karnal, Vishal left for his

house''. To substantiate their plea of ''alibi'' the

accused persons have produced in defence DW1

Ashok Gandhi, DW4 Pawan Kumar Diwan and

DW14 Manuj Diwan. Now it is to be seen

whether the accused persons have been able to

prove the plea of alibi that at about 11:30pm they

were present at the house of DW1 Ashok Gandhi

to attend the ring ceremony of his son and they

were there till 12:30 and as such could not be

present alongwith the deceased Nitish Katara at

Hapur Chungi between 12:20am / 12:30am. DW1

an advocate by profession testified that his son 510 Amit Gandhi got married in February 2002 . The

ring ceremony of Amit Gandhi was performed on

16/2/02 at his residence. the marriage was on

20/2/02. The ring ceremony was followed by

cocktail cum dinner party. The function started at

his residence at 8:30pm and it took about 1 / 1½

hours in the rituals at his residence. Th guests

started coming at 10pm. The parents of his

daughter in law Megha Vig came alongwith DP

Yadav and the younger brother of Vishal Yadav

besides others. He explained that he was known

to the family of DP Yadav since his both the

children studies in DPS and both the accused also

studied in the same school at the same time. It is

stated that accused persons reached his residence

lateron. He further stated that though he cannot

recollect the exact time since he do not use

watch but approximately they were there around 511 11/ 11:30pm. He stated that though he cannot say

exactly if both accused persons were present at

his residence at 11:30pm sharp but he could say

they were there around this time. He stated that

they had attended the party very well. They must

have left his residence at 12/ 12:15 midnight. He

further stated it is possible that they left at 12

midnight also. It is stated that they stayed there

in the party for about 1 /1½ hour. The witness

categorically stated that the function was

videographed and photographs were also taken.

To prove the presence of both the accused

persons at his residence he produced three

photographs. In the photograph Ex.DW1/D1 and

D2 both the accused Vikas Yadav and Vishal

Yadav were appearing dancing alongwith his

other relatives whereas in the photograph

Ex.DW1/D3 the accused Vikas Yadav is appearing 512 alongwith the father of his daughter in law. He

also produced the marriage card relating to all

the functions marked as Ex.DW1/D5 ­ 1 to 5 and

the letter circulated to the guests before marriage

card was sent is DW1/D6. iii) Through the testimony of this

witness the defence has also tried to bring on

record that at that time the accused persons had

gone to his house in a Mercedes. To this effect

the witness testified that when both the accused

had left at that time he was present at the gate,

they touched his feet and he offered them pack

of sweets. His servant had kept the packet of

sweets in the vehicle of Vikas and he had given

the packet of sweets in the hands of Vishal who

was residing at a walkable distance and with the

pack of sweets in his hand he walked away. It is

important to notice that when this witness was 513 asked as to where Vishal had gone , he initially

stated that ''God knows where he went'' but again

he improved and stated that he went towards his

house. Regarding the car in which he had sent

pack of sweets through his servant, he stated that

it was an exclusive saloon car and it must be

Mercedes. iv) The prosecution has claimed that

he is a false witness as though he claimed that

there was function of ring ceremony at his

residence which was attended by accused persons,

the presence of the girl in the ceremony has not

been proved and he has drawn my attention to

the statement of this witness where he stated as

follows : It is strange on the part of accused Vishal Yadav

also that he did not approach this witness earlier

nor collected the photographs of any such

engagement ceremony showing their presence, so

as to put these photographs to the prosecution

witnesses that at that relevant time the accused

persons were neither at Diamond Palace nor

outside Diamond Palace nor at Hapur Chungi 519 alongwith the deceased. viii) It is important to notice that to

none of the prosecution witnesses it was

suggested by the defence during cross

examination that the accused persons were in

hurry to leave diamond palace since they had to

attend the ring ceremony of Amit Gandhi. The

accused persons gave different statement to

different prosecution witnesses as to where they

had to go from Diamond Palace. PW11 Shivani

Gaur testified as follows : He stated that after he left for Karnal, Vishal left

for his house''. In his statement U/s 313 Cr.PC he

did not disclose as to whose function he was to

attend at Karnal but he only claimed that he had

to attend a havan and a ring ceremony at Karnal

which means till that time he was not sure what

defence he was to take and at whose place he 523 had gone to attend the hawan and ring

ceremony. Till DW4 Pawan Kumar Diwan

appeared in the witness box the accused had not

disclosed the name of the person or the relative

or friend whose place he was to visit in Karnal

for attending the above referred functions. DW4

testified that on the intervening night of 16­

17/2/02 there was a function at his residence at

Karnal. On 16/2/02 there was a Paryojan function

at his residence relating to the marriage of his

son Manuj Diwan and in the morning there was

a Shagun ceremony which was to take place at

10am followed by ring ceremony. He stated that

shagun and ring ceremony took place at Highway

Green in Karnal on Chandigarh road. He stated

that he had business as well as family relations

with the family of Mr. DP Yadav and they were

invited in the aforesaid functions. He stated that 524 Vikas Yadav had attended the functions who

reached his house at 3am on the intervening

night of 16­17/2/02. On that night there were

several guests at his house, so he offered him to

stay with him in his room at his residence or in

the alternative since the rooms were already

booked at Karna lake who could also go there.

He stated that the distance between the Karna

lake and Highway green was 500 yards as they

were situated on the same road and were

adjoining each other. He further stated that the

marriage function was photographed and

videographed. Videographs and CD's were

prepared. The photographs Mark DW4/A & B

were produced by the witness. He also produced

a CD containing the view of the ring ceremony of

his son Manuj Diwan dtd 17/2/02 which was

shown in the picture . After the ring ceremony 525 was performed, the accused Vikas Yadav was seen

in the CD Ex.DW4/1 sitting by the side of Manuj.

Regarding the function dtd 16/2/02 the witness

stated that it was over by 2:30 midnight before

accused Vikas reached. The witness told him as to

why he was late, Vikas told him that he was to

attend some other function. The witness then told

him that if he was already late he should have

come on 17/2/02 to attend the function of that

day but Vikas told him that he thought he would

get up late in the morning so it is better he

reached there at night. He stated that Vikas

Yadav left around 2 /2:30pm after taking lunch on

17/2/02, though the witness was not very sure of

the time. He stated that he had reached Karnal in

a black colour or dark blue colour big car. xiii) During cross examination, the

witness could not produce the negatives of the 526 photographs Mark DW4/A & B and he admitted

that from the photographs the time and date

when these photographs were clicked cannot be

made out. This witness also did not prodcue any

record of booking of rooms at Karna Lake . He

also admitted that no invitation cards were got

printed for the function which took place on

17/2/02. He could not tell the date of marriage of

his son whether it was 26th or 28th of April 2002.

He claimed that the marriage was attended by

Mr.DP Yadav but he did not produce the

marriage card or any photograph that Sh. DP

Yadav attended the marriage. xiv) He admitted that after 6­7 days

of 17/2/02 he came to know about the arrest of

the accused but he did not go to meet Mr. DP

Yadav or his family at Ghaziabad. This witness

failed to give any reason as to why he did not 527 meet Mr. DP Yadav or his family members after

he came to know that accused Vikas and Vishal

were involved and arrested in a murder case. xv) The testimony of this witness

does not inspire any credence as he has claimed

in his cross examination that the police of

Ghaziabad had visited his house after 15­20 days

of the arrest of the accused persons while he was

in Alwar , he was informed on telephone from

his residence at Karnal that some officers from

Ghaziabad had visited his residence and they

were shown the photographs of the function. He

further stated that by that time the album was

not received from the photographer and his

children had brought the photographs from the

photographer and shown to the police. The

witness was then shown the photograph Mark

DW4/B and he stated that the circle around the 528 face of accused Vikas in the photograph as

disclosed by his children was marked by the

police. It is important to note that no suggestion

was given to any of the police officials of

Ghaziabad who appeared as prosecution witnesses

that they had visited the house of this witness

DW4 and collected the photographs to the effect

that accused Vikas Yadav was in Karnal attending

the function of ring ceremony of his son. This

fact has been brought to the notice of the court

for the first time during the examination of this

witness. It is further strange that though this

witness claims that he had business as well as

family relations with Mr. DP Yadav but after he

came to know that accused Vikas Yadav was

arrested in the present case, he did not go to Mr.

DP Yadav to help him in this regard. It is

important to notice that he claimed during his 529 cross examination that Mr. DP Yadav had

attended the marriage of his son in April 2002

but still no talks took place between them in this

regard. There is no explanation as to why this

witness kept quiet for more than a period of 5

years and did not try to bring the truth to the

knowledge of the police authorities or to the

court. xvi) Besides, the arrival of Vikas at

Karnal at 3am is not supported by any

documentary evidence. No evidence with regard

to the stay of accused at Karna Lake has been

produced nor even that any rooms were booked

there by DW4 Pawan Kumar Diwan. The accused

in his statement U/s 313 Cr.PC is silent about the

time he reached Karnal whereas this witness has

stated that he reached Karnal around 3am. The

explanation given by the witness that the accused 530 reached there at late hours since he thought he

would get up late in the morning is again not

substantiated by the accused in his statement U/s.

313 Cr. PC. As such there is no reasonable

explanation as to why the accused would reach

there at 3 am instead of next morning

particularly when the CD Ex.DW4/1 shows his

presence after the ring ceremony is performed.

This witness did not speak of any havan

ceremony to have taken place at his residence on

17/2/02 which the accused has claimed in this

statement U/s. 313 CrPC , was to be attended by

him. As such if he was to attend only the ring

ceremony he could have conveniently reached

Karnal on 17/2/02 itself. Besides, there is no

documentary evidence produced on record about

any function which took place at the house of

this witness on 16/2/02 for which the accused 531 had left Diamond Palace in hurry. xvii) Lateron the defence produced

DW14 Manuj Diwan s/o DW4 Pawan Diwan to

corroborate the statement of his father and to

cover certain lacunas which were left unfilled by

his father ie regarding the time when the ring

ceremony started and till what time the accused

remained present there. xviii) He stated that ring ceremony

started around 9:30 / 10 am and it lasted till

about 4pm. Regarding accused Vikas Yadav he

stated that he had reached the venue before they

reached there for attending the function and he

remained there till around 3pm. But CD Ex.DW4/1

does not show his presence in the function before

or at the time of ring ceremony. It is pertinent to

notice that this witness did not depose that

accused Vikas Yadav had reached Karnal at 3am 532 on the morning of 17/2/02 as deposed by his

father DW4 Pawan Diwan nor about his stay at

Karna Lake. xix) No doubt this witness too has

deposed that in his presence Ghaziabad Police

(UP) had visited his residence and recorded his

statement though the copy of statement was not

given to him. He stated that photographs

Ex.DW14/A is the only photograph of accused

Vikas in the album of his ring ceremony. He was

shown the photograph Mark DW4/B. On seeing

this photograph he admitted that in this

photograph also accused Vikas Yadav is appearing

and it relates to the function. It was observed by

the court both the photographs Mark DW4/B and

Ex.DW14/A are the same photographs . He was

shown another photograph Mark DW4/A in which

accused Vikas Yadav is appearing and he 533 admitted that this photograph is not part of the

album produced by him in the court and the

negatives Ex.DW14/B also do not contain the

negative of this photograph. He testified that the

photograph Ex.DW14/A was clicked by some

photographer booked from the side of his wife

and the album which he had produced contains

the photograph which were clicked by the

photographer engaged by the family of his wife.

There is no reason given as to why he had

produced the album prepared from the side of his

wife. He did not produce any album prepared

from his side to show that photographs Marked

DW4/A & B lateron exhibited Ex.PW14/C & D

were clicked by the photographer from their side.

He also did not produce the negatives of these

two photographs. He stated that these

photographs Ex.DW14/A and Mark DW4/B are not 534 similar but there was a difference of face

expressions of the persons appearing in the

photographs and their movements were also

different. He neither produced the negatives of

these photographs nor the bills raised by the

photographer nor the bill pertaining to the album

Ex.DW14/E.

xx) This witness has claimed that

Ghaziabad police had visited his residence at

Karnal in his presence. The photographs

Ex.DW14/C & D were shown to the police and

their copies were also taken by them. He stated

the album was available with him at that time

and the photographs were taken out of it and

handed over to the police. Whereas DW4 during

his cross examination made contradictory

statement that at that relevant time he was in

Alwar when the police reached his residence and 535 they were shown the photographs of the function,

he stated that by that time the album was not

received from the photograph and his children

had brought the photographs from the

photographer and shown to the police. xxi) DW 4 also claimed that the

negatives were misplaced by the photographer

since he had shifted his shop and assured that in

case he locates the negatives he would deliver

the same to them. To the contrary DW14 during

cross examination stated that the photographs

Ex.DW14/C & D were got prepared by him from

the negatives. He clarified that till that time

photographer had not handed over the negatives

to them so he asked him to prepare these

photographs to complete their album. xxii) DW14 was also shown the

photograph of accused Vikas Yadav Ex.DW14/C 536 wherein the face of accused Vikas Yadav was

encircled and he stated that he was not aware of

as to by whom and on which occasion the face

of accused was encircled. To the contrary DW4

stated that his children told him that this

photograph was encircled by the police. This

shows that both the witnesses made contradictory

statement to each other with regard to handing

over the photographs of the function showing

presence of accused Vikas Yadav to the police.

Besides, as referred above no such suggestion was

given to any official of UP Police in this regard.

Even assuming that the accused Vikas Yadav

attended the function on 17/2/02 at Karnal it

does not lead to any inference that on the night

of 16/2/02 between 11:30 to 12:30 he was not

present at Ghaziabad at Diamond Palace, at

outside Diamond Palace and at Hapur Chungi. 537 None of the defence witnesses produced by the

defence inspire any credence due to their own

conduct who remained silent for a period of

about 5 years and opened their mouth for the

first time during their statement before the court.

xxiii) It is held by the Hon'ble Apex

Court in the authority reported in 2003 (3) JCC

1952 that : 11 of Indian Evidence Act . It is held in the authority reported in

1997 CrLJ 2853 Delhi High Court that 

 ''burde
 n of proof for such plea lies on the
 person who raises it.''

 It is further held in the authority reported in

2006 I AD (Cr.)SC 661 that 

 '' the onus to prove the alibi rests
 heavily on the accused''

xxviii) In view of the authorities

referred above the burden lies on the accused to

prove the plea of alibi to the hilt.

xxix) In the present case, the plea of

alibi raised by both the accused persons does not

inspire any credibility. The schedule of accused

Vikas Yadav that from Diamond Palace he had

gone to the house of DW1 Ashok Gandhi to

attend the ring ceremony of his son Amit Gandhi 541 at 11:30 pm on 16.2.02 and thereafter he went to

Karnal to attend the ring ceremony of DW14

Manuj Diwan on 17/2/02 and thereafter in the

evening of 17/2/02 he visited his factory Oswal

Sugar Mill at Mukeria and from there he left for

his constituency Bisoli and then to Allahabad, was

not put to any of the witnesses examined by the

prosecution particularly PW34 SI JK Gangwar,

PW35 SI Anil Somania, IO of the case and PW

33 Ajay Katara. Thus, the defence taken by the

accused is an after thought. Moreover the

witnesses examined by the defence to this effect

ie DW1 Ashok Gandhi, DW4 Pawan Kumar Diwan

and DW14 Manuj Diwan kept quiet for 5 long

years and did not give any information to the

police or even to the Court that at the relevant

time accused Vikas Yadav was in their company

and therefore he could not have been present 542 at Hapur Chungi on the intervening night of 16­

17/2/02 at 12:20 / 12:30am. In view of the

authority referred above ie 2003(3) JCC 1952 no

reliance can be placed on the testimony of these

defence witnesses. Thus, in the present case both

the accused persons have failed to discharge the

onus placed on them through cogent and reliable

evidence as such their plea of ''alibi'' is rejected.

The prosecution has proved on record beyond

reasonable doubt that the deceased was abducted

by the accused persons from Diamond Palace and

he was last seen alive in their company at Hapur

Chungi in Tata Safari No. PB07H 0085 at 12:15 /

12:30 am on 16 ­ 17/2/02. xxx) It is held in the authority

reported in 2001 Crl. LJ 1734 by the Hon'ble

Apex Court that the presumption U/s 106 of

the Evidence Act can only be drawn against the 543 accused persons after the prosecution has

succeeded in proving facts for which a

reasonable inference can be drawn regarding

the existence of certain facts, unless the accused

by virtue of special knowledge regarding such

facts failed to offer any explanation which might

drive the Court to draw a different inference. It

is further held that when more persons than one

have abducted the victim, who was later

murdered it is within the legal province of the

Court to justifiably draw a presumption

depending on the factual situation, that all the

abductors are responsible for the murder and Section 34 IPC could be invoked for the aid to

that end, unless any particular abductor satisfies

the Court with his explanation as to what else he

did with the victim subsequently, ie whether he

left his associates en­route or whether he 544 dissuaded others from doing the extreme act etc.

The abductors alone could tell the Court as to

what happened to the deceased after they were

abducted. When the abductors withheld that

information from the Court there is every

justification for drawing the inference, in the light

of all preceding and succeeding circumstances

that the abductors are murderers of the deceased.

xxxi) The cummulative effect of the

above discussion is that the prosecution has

proved by over whelming evidence beyond

reasonable doubt that accused Vishal Yadav had

deceitfully taken away Nitish Katara the

deceased outside the Diamond Palace and from

there in the company of accused Vikas Yadav and

one another person were seen alongwith the

deceased by Ct. Inderjeet and Ct. Satender at T

point Diamond Palace and thereafter at Hapur 545 Chungi by PW33 Ajay Katara between 12:20 /

12:30 midnight and thereafter the dead body of

the deceased was recovered from Shikarpur road

within the jurisdiction of PS Khurja Nagar spotted

by PW23 Virender Singh at 9am which was

lateron identified to be of deceased Nitish Katara.

In these circumstances, the accused persons if had

not murdered the deceased they ought have

offered an explanation as to how and when the

deceased parted company from them. Since it

was within their special knowledge as to what

happened to Nitish Katara after he was seen in

their company by PW 33 Ajay Katara , they have

failed to discharge the burden cast upon them by Sec. 106 of the Indian Evidence Act and this

circumstance also provides an additional link in

the chain of circumstances proved by the

prosecution against them. xxxii) The last seen theory comes into

play where the time gap between the point of

time when the accused and the deceased were

last seen alive and when the deceased is found

dead is so small that possibility of any person

other than the accused being the author of the

crime becomes impossible. xxxiii) In the present case the

deceased was seen last in the company of

accused persons at 12:20/12:30 am on the

intervening night of 16/17­02­02 at Hapur Chungi

by PW 33 and the entire testimony of PW 33

shows that no suggestion was given to this

witness that he had not seen the accused persons

in the company of deceased at that time and

place. I find that on the other hand irrelevant

suggestions were given to the witness that he was

not present at Hapur Chungi on 16.2.02 as stated 547 by him, which leads to the inference that though

they are denying the presence of witness at

Hapur Chungi but they passed through that route.

Similarly the other suggestion to the witness that

there was enough space by the side of scooter,

which had broken down, for vehicles to pass

again leads to the similar inference. It is pertinent

to mention that the deadbody of the deceased

was spotted thereafter at 9 am on 17/2/02 by

PW 23 at Shikarpur Road in District Khurja in

burnt condition. The time gap between the point

of time when the deceased was last seen in

the company of the accused persons and recovery

of deadbody was so small, moreover it was dead

of the night when he was spotted in their

company of the accused persons after they all

had attended the marriage at Diamond Palace, so

it was only for the accused persons to have 548 explained as to where they had parted with the

the deceased in the dead of the night so as to

rule out any possibility of the accused persons

bring the murderers. xxxiv) The testimony of PW 33 who

last saw the deceased in the company of the

accused persons has remained unshaken in cross

examination. And his testimony is convincing.

Besides, the defence has failed to bring any

material on record that this witness had any

motive to wrongly frame the accused persons. interview given by accused Vikas Yadav to the

media at Ghaziabad on 25/2/02 that he admitted

his presence outside Diamond Palace alongwith

Nitish Katara. To that effect the prosecution has 549 examined PW36 Revati Lau NDTV reporter who

testified that on 25/2/02 she had gone to

Ghaziabad court to cover this case. There were

several press reporters and one of them asked

questions which was recorded in her camera

which is contained in tape Ex.PW36/1. She stated

that the question was put by male voice to the

accused which is reproduced as follows: The relevant para 176 relied upon by the

 defence counsel is reproduced herein below for

 ready perusal: Incidentally, we may mentioned that
 PW60 the DCP, who was supervising the
 investigation, surprisingly expressed his
 ignorance about the media interview. We
 think that the wrong step taken by the
 police should not ensure to the benefit or
 detriment of either the prosecution or the
 accused.'' v) On the other hand the prosecution has

relied upon the judgment of the Hon'ble High

Court of Gujarat, Sajidbeg Asifbeg Mirza Vs

State of Gujarat dtd 17/11/06 in CRLR No.

694/2006, which was confirmed by the Hon'ble 555 Supreme Court vide judgment dtd 22/1/07 in Crl.

No. 130/2007, where the accused had made

statement to the media while he was in police

custody and was admitted in the hospital. In the

said authority the judgment of Navjot Sandhu's

case has also been referred and discussed.

However, it was held in this case : In a letter written by Jail Supdt to the DGP

 that the custody of both the accused persons

 were handed over to SI Anil Somania PW35 on

 24/2/02 from Dabra Jail and they were in

 sound state of health at that time. This itself

 shows that the theory of stubbing of cigarette

 buds for the first time in his statement U/s 313 564 Cr.PC does not inspire credance. If there was

any such torture, atleast the IO PW35 SI Anil

Somania, PW34 SI JK Gangwar and PW36A

Inspt Ashok Bhadoria ought have been

suggested to this effect but no suggestion was

given. Besides, accused Vishal Yadav did not

allege any such torture of Vikas Yadav by

police, in his statement U/s 313 Cr.PC . The

admission is thus voluntarily made by him

about his presence with deceased outside

Diamond Palace and is admissible in evidence

against him. Moreover the interviews which are

given to the reporter by the accused persons

without any coercion or pressure in natural

flow are helpful to the court in coming to

rightful conclusion in any case. So far the

present case is concerned accused Vikas Yadav

has admitted in his statement U/s 313 Cr.PC 565 that he made such interview to the media and

 there is no evidence on record that he made

 this interview under pressure. The statement of

 the accused U/s 313 Cr.PC cannot be ignored

 even though it is not an incriminating

 circumstance appearing in evidence against him,

 as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

 authority reported in 1998 CrLJ 1411. xv) It is an additional link to the chain of

 circumstances relied upon by the prosecution. have raised strong objection to the admissibility

of the evidence of the prosecution witnesses,

particularly PW 33 that his statement was

recorded with delay on 18.03.02 whereas he had 566 seen the deceased in the company of the accused

persons in the intervening night of 16/17.02.02.

It is submitted that the statement of PW Ct.

Inderjeet Singh and Ct. Satender Singh were

recorded on 4/3/02, Gaurav Gupta on 26.03.02 and

Sultan Singh on 19.03.02 and there is no

explanation for delay in recording the statement

of the witnesses. It is submitted that these

witnesses were subsequently planted by the

prosecution and their testimony is liable to be

thrown outrightly as they were not witness to the

relevant facts but were introduced by the

prosecution. In support of his claim, he has cited

authorities reported in 1989 Supreme Court Cases

(Cri) 649 Surinder Singh Vs State of Punjab

whereby it is held that: v) The authority cited by defence

 counsel is reported in 1981 CCC Page 19 Delhi

 State Vs Smt Chameli Devi and Ors wherein the

 only independent witness disclosed to the police

 about the murder of the deceased after 9 days

 of his knowledge of murder. In this case, the

 murder had taken place near the shop of the

 witness and he did not care to go and to see

 the deceased and his behaviour was found

 abnormal and strange besides, his evidence was 573 also found full of infirmities and not

 trustworthy. vi) The said authority is also not

 applicable to the facts and circumstances of the

 present case where no incident had taken place

 in the presence of any of the witnesses except

 that they could co­relate the fact of their

 having seen the deceased in the company of

 the accused persons on the night of 16th and

 17/2/02 to the present case when lateron they

 came to know of the abduction and murder of

 Nitish. The deceased was not known to them

 earlier and they could never comprehend that

 any crime was likely to take place. Besides, the

 deadbody of unidentified person was recovered,

 so till the identify of the deceased was

 established it was not expected of any person

 to approach the police to say that they had 574 seen the deceased in the company of the

 accused persons. vii) The defence counsels have further

 relied upon the authority reported in 2007(4)

 JCC 2980 High Court of Delhi whereby it was

 held that: It was held that : In this case the statement of PW2 the neighbourer

of the deceased who had noticed the accused

standing near the door of the flat of the deceased

towards the staircase with helmet fitted visor in

his hand . The statement was recorded on 4/2/96

whereas the incident had taken place on 23/1/96. It was held that: Moreover it depends from person to person

how he reacts in a particular situation. If in the 579 present case, the witness decided to confide

 only in the IO, in my opinion that was a wisor

 decision, particularly for the reason it was

 considered to be a high profile case since

 accused Vikas Yadav is the son of Sh. DP Yadav

 the then MP who was considered to be a

 politically and financially influential person. xiv) So far PW33 Ajay Katara is

 concerned he himself has explained the delay

 that he was waiting to be sure of the

 involvement of the accused persons and the

 identity of the deceased. He has also explained

 that he had gone to the PS on 2/3/02 , then on

 12/3/02 but he could not meet the IO and

 again he went on 18/3/02 when he succeeded

 in meeting the IO and his statement was

 recorded. xv) So far the statement of Gaurav 580 Gupta is concerned the IO has explained the

 delay that since he was busy in other work of

 investigation, as such he could not record the

 statement immediately after 17/2/02 as Gaurav

 Guipta was working in Faizabad. Thus he had

 sent SI JK Gangwar on 16/3/02 for recording

 his statement. xvi) The delay in recording the

 statement of Sultan Singh has also been

 explained by the IO as after recovery of Tata

 Safari from AB Cotex at Karnal on 11.3.02, the

 PC remand was to expire at 2 pm and accused

 were to be produced before CJM Ghaziabad

 hence they were left with no time to record his

 statement on the same day. xvii) So far PW32 Ct. Satender is

 concerned, he himself has explained the delay

 that till 4/3/02 he was not aware of any 581 incident. xviii) So far PW 28Ct. Inderjeet is

 concerned who has not supported the

 prosecution case, claimed that he had come to

 know about the incident after 2­3 days and he

 has not given any explanation why he did not

 approach the IO and informed him. The reason

 appears to be obvious and it must be the same

 for which he became hostile ie either under

 pressure from the accused persons or some

 extraneous considerations. xix) Hence in view of the authorities referred above cited on the point by the

 prosecution, I am of the opinion that the delay

 of recording the statement of the prosecution

 witnesses in the present case is not fatal to the

 prosecution. xx) In view of the above discussions, the 582 prosecution has proved on record beyond any

 reasonable doubt that the accused persons

 abducted the deceased from Diamond Palace by

 deceitful means on the night of 16/2/02 and

 thereafter he was last seen alive in their

 company at Hapur Chungi at 12:20/12:30 am on

 the intervening night of 16/17.02.02 by PW 33.

 The dead body of the deceased was found at

 Shikarpur Road in burnt condition by PW23 at

 9am on 17/2/02, as such circumstances also

 prove that the accused were the murderers. In

 the circumstances of the present case in my

 opinion no other view is possible. argued that the statement of the hostile witnesses

cannot be taken into consideration. It is settled

law of the land that the evidence of prosecution 583 witness cannot be rejected in toto merely because

the prosecution chose to treat him as hostile and

cross examined. This fact cannot be lost sight of

that the witnesses may on account of pressure

exerted upon them try to support the accused

persons. In the present case, particularly Bharti,

Bhawna, Shivani, Bharat appeared to be under the

influence of the accused persons / their family

members since Bharti Yadav and Bhawna Yadav

are the real sisters of accused Vikas Yadav and

Shivani and Bharat Diwakar were the friends of

Bharti Yadav. PW 11 Shivani was also close to the

family of the deceased. both the accused Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav

subsequent to the incident had absconded as they 584 were neither available at their residence nor at

any other places where they could be expected to

be available. The prosecution has claimed that

since both the accused persons had absconded

after the incident and got themselves arrested

in PS Dabra (MP) under a minor offence U/s 25 Arms Act , adverse inference is liable to be drawn

against them and this is another link in the

chain of circumstances which point out

conclusively the guilt of the accused persons.

The prosecution has relied upon the following

authorities: iii) As per Section 8 of the Indian Evidence

Act : ''Any fact is relevant which shows or constitutes

a motive or preparation for any act in issue or relevant

fact." Illustration C to Section 9 of the

Indian Evidence Act 1872 deals with the situation

where a person accused of an crime absconds

from his house soon after the commission of

offence. The illustration is reproduced as

follows:­

 " A is a accused of crime. The fact that, soon after the commission of

crime, A absconded from his house is relevant under Sec. 8 as conduct subsequent to and affected by facts

in issue." The fact that, at the time when he left home, 591 he had sudden and urgent business at the place to

which he went, is relevant, as tending to explain the

fact that he left home suddenly. The details of the business on which he left

are not relevant, except in so far as they are necessary

to show that the business was sudden and urgent.'' iv) The relevant witnesses examined by the

 prosecution to prove the fact that the accused

 persons had absconded from their respective

 house after the incident are PW 34 SI JK

 Gangwar and PW 35 SI Anil Somania, IO of

 the case. v) PW 35 SI Anil Somania testified that on

 17.2.02 he received the investigation of the

 present case at 2 pm. He recorded the

 statement of HC Nempal Singh, complaint

 Mrs Neelam Katara, Bharat Diwakar and 592 thereafter went to Diamond Palace alongwith

Bharat Diwakar and recorded the statement of

Sandeep Goel, owner of the Diamond Palace

and the security guard Jai Prakash Pandey.

Thereafter he contacted the photographer

engaged for taking photographs in the marriage

and collected enlarged print of photograph of

Nitish Katara, issued notice Ex. PW1/DA to the

general public informing missing of Nitish

Katara. Then he searched for accused Vikas

Yadav and Vishal Yadav at their houses at

Ghaziabad but none of them were found at

their houses. He could not trace them at their

houses in Ghaziabad Sec. 4 & 5 respectively.

He further testified that on 18.2.02 he again

went to the house of accused persons and

searched the houses, but he could not trace

either of the accused persons at their houses 593 nor Nitish Katara was found there. The

witness proved these search memos as Ex PW

35/2 and Ex.PW 35/3 respectively. He further

stated that thereafter he came to Delhi at

Kothi No 15 Balwant Rai Lane, a house

allotted to Sh DP Yadav (MP), father of

accused Vikas Yadav but even there he could

not trace the accused persons. He further

stated that again on 19.2.02 he again

searched for the accused at their houses and

could not find them there. He further testified

that he had also gone to Gurgaon Udyog

Vihar in search of both the accused as he learnt

that they had office there but he could not

find accused persons there despite search. He

learnt that there was a sugar mill pertaining to

accused persons in Mukeria, Hoshiarpur Punjab

and farm house at Anari District Badauin UP 594 and since these two places required to be

 searched by him, he sent SI AP Bharatwaz to

 Dhaneri Farm House in search of the accused

 persons. Again on 20.2.02 he visited the house of

 both the accused persons and found them

 locked. vi) It is only then he moved an application

 Ex.PW 35/8 to the Court of CJM Ghaziabad for

 issuance of proceeding U/s 82/83 Cr PC against

 the accused persons. He obtained the warrants

 against the accused persons from the Court.

 Thereafter he tried to execute the same but

 could not arrest them. He further testified that

 he pasted notice U/s 82 CrPC at the house of

 accused persons . vii) The witness was cross examined at

 length but his testimony could not be rebutted

 in any manner to the effect that he did not 595 conduct any search for the accused persons and

they were not available at their house or other

places where there was possibility of their

being present. During cross examination the

witness stated that the accused persons

were residents of Ghaziabad at a distance of

3km from PS Kavi Nagar. During cross

examination the witness was suggested that he

had raided the house of the accused persons on

17.2.02 which he admitted to be correct. He

also admitted that when the raid was

conducted the mothers of both the accused

persons respectively were present at their house

and there was no male member. He stated that

at that time WSI Anju Badhuria was with

him though she was not made a witness in the

present case. He further testified that he did

not interrogate the mothers of the accused 596 persons nor did he record their statement He

 categorically stated that the copies of house

 search were furnished to them. The memo

 was signed by them, though it was not

 specifically mentioned therein that the copy of

 the search warrant was given to them. viii) Perusal of house search memos Ex PW

 35/2 shows that it is bearing the signature of

 Smt. Umlesh, mother of accused Vikas Yadav,

 whereas the search memo Ex PW 35/3 shows

 that it is bearing the signature of Smt

 Satyawati, mother of accused Vishal Yadav and

 this fact has not been challenged during cross

 examination of the witness nor these ladies

 have been produced in the witness box in

 defence to deny the signatures on these memos

 or to deny the fact that their house was not

 searched either on 18 or 19/02/02. So far 597 search of their houses on 17/2/02 is concerned,

 it is the defence who gave suggestions to the

 witnesses that it was searched on 17/2/02,

 hence house search on 17/2/02 in admitted. ix) The argument of the defence

 counsel that these memos Ex. PW 35/2 & 3 are

 not bearing the signatures of WSI Anju

 Badhuria nor she has been cited as a

 prosecution witness ,this lead to the inference

 that she did not accompany the IO to the

 house of the accused persons. It is submitted

 that in the absence of male members in the

 house IO could not have searched the same in

 the presence of only female. However to this

 effect IO has not been suggested even once

 that WSI Anju Badhuria was not present

 alongwith him at the time of house search.

 Nor any female of the house has been 598 produced in defence to say so. Though the

 witness was suggested for house search at night

 permission of SSP or SP was required which

 was denied by SI Anil Somania, at the same

 time no such provision of law has been shown

 to the Court by the defence counsel that any

 such permission was required by the IO before

 conducting the house search at night. From the

 testimony of IO Anil Somania it is proved on

 record that the search for the accused persons

 at Diamond Palace, at their residence, in the

 markets and their possible hideouts at Rajnagar,

 Kavi Nagar and Shastri Nagar was made nor

 any such evidence in defence has been

 produced that they were at Ghaziabad. x) Perusal of the report Ex. PW 35/8

 shows that this was an application moved by SI

 Anil Somania to the CJM Ghaziabad seeking 599 issuance of process U/s 82/83 Cr PC against

 the accused persons on the ground that they

 were searched at their residence and other

 possible hideouts but they were absconding

 from their residence since after the incident and

 on this application Ld. CJM Ghaziabad issued

 NBW and process U/s 82 Cr.PC against accused

 persons on 20/2/02. xi) Though PW 34 SI JK Gangwar has

 also claimed to have accompanied SI Anil

 Somania on 19.2.02 to Gurgaon Haryana in

 search of the accused persons and Nitish Katara.

 At Udyog Vihar in Gurgaon they learnt that

 there was an office of liquor business of the

 accused family but they could not find accused

 persons and came back. He further stated on

 20.2.02 they had obtained process U/s 82 Cr PC

 and NBW from the Court of CJM against the 600 accused persons and went to Rajnagar

 Ghaziabad for execution of the warrants and

 the process but warrants could not be executed

 since accused persons were not at their house.

 The witness during cross examination admitted

 that he had not mentioned this fact in his

 statement U/s 161 CrPC that he had

 accompanied the IO on 20.2.02 to the house of

 the accused persons or about his visit to Udyog

 Vihar in Gurgaon in search of the accused

 persons. However, he stated that a search

 memo was prepared at Udyog Vihar Gurgaon. xii) The perusal of the entire testimony of

 PW34 & PW35 shows that no suggestion was

 given to the witnesses on behalf of the accused

 Vikas Yadav that at the alleged time when he

 was last seen in the company of deceased, he

 was present at the house of DW1 Ashok Gandhi 601 attending the ring ceremony of his son Amit

 Gandhi and from there accused Vikas Yadav

 went to Karnal on the same night and on

 17.2.02 after attending ring ceremony of DW 14

 Manuj Diwan he left for Mukeria and after

 finishing his work in his factory he left for

 Bisoli on 18.2.02 in the evening and reached

 there on 19.2.02 and that from there he left for

 Allahabad and reached there on 20.2.02. xiii) Similarly, no suggestion was given to

 the IO on behalf of accused Vishal Yadav that

 he remained at Ghaziabad till 19.2.02 and when

 he came to know he was being framed in this

 case he left for Allahabad on 20.2.02. It is

 pertinent to mention that both the accused did

 not disclose as to by which mode of travel they

 had reached Allahabad, no railway ticket or no

 air ticket has been produced on record in 602 defence. xiv) The prosecution has drawn my attention

 towards the testimony of DW6 Sh. Neeraj

 Gautam, DW9 Sh. Bhairav Prasad Maurya,

 DW12 Sh Arvind Mishra, DW17 Sh. Sandeep

 Mishra, DW19 Sh Jai Singh, advocate and has

 claimed that the entire defence of the accused

 persons is false and fabricated and the

 witnesses are cooked . It is submitted that

 DW6 Sh. Neeraj Gautam was the counsel for

 both the accused in the initial stages of the

 present case and he alongwith Shailesh

 Sharma had moved an application Ex DW 6/1

 at the instance of Rajender Yadav, the cousin

 brother of accused Vikas Yadav wherein he

 prayed that the police of Kavi Nagar was

 harassing both the accused persons, though

 they were not involved in any crime as per 603 their knowledge but still they requested that

 report be called from PS Kavi Nagar if any case

 was registered against them. xv) The argument of Spl. PP for State on

 this application is that the contents of the

 application shows that both the accused were in

 Ghaziabad but they were avoiding their arrest.

 It is important to note at this stage that this

 application was moved on 21.2.02 when process

 U/s 82 Cr PC had already been issued against

 both of them by the Court vide order

 dtd.20/2/02. It is important to notice from the

 testimony of this witness that he did not move

 this application after being personally informed

 by accused Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav but

 at the instance of Rajender Yadav, the cousin

 brother of accused Vikas Yadav. The testimony

 of this witness to this effect that on 21.2.02 604 at about 10am in the Ghaizabad court premises

accused Vikas and Vishal had called Rajender

Yadav most probably from Allahabad on his

cell phone in his presence does not inspire

credence, as since DW6 Neeraj Gautam was

their counsel they could straight away speak to

their counsel or could ask Sh. Rajender Yadav

to make them to speak to their counsel. It

appears that this application was motivated to

show that they were not absconding but were

harassed by the police. It is further pertinent

to mention that no application on behalf of the

accused persons was ever moved for

cancellation of the proceedings U/s 82 Cr PC .

This witness categorically admitted that he

never had any talk with the accused persons on

17.2.02 or before 24.2.02 nor he met them.

He took somersault during the cross 605 examination with regard to his statement in

 chief examination that Rajender Yadav had a

 talk with both the accused in his chamber

 when he stated in answer to the court

 question as follows:­

 " I do not know if any of the accused persons

had called Rajender Yadav at that time as I have no

personal knowledge about the same and Rajender Yadav

did not tell me who had called him at that time , though

he spoke to the person who called him for 5 /7 minutes."

xvi) The prosecution has further drawn

 my attention towards the application Ex.PW6/7

 dtd. 22.2.02 moved by advocate Shailesh

 Sharma on behalf of the accused persons before

 the CJM Ghaziabad that on account of illness

 they were unable to appear before the court

 and sought 3 days time for their appearance. 606 The Spl. PP for State has submitted that to the

 contrary the accused persons made statement

 U/s 313 Cr.PC that on 22/2/02 they were at

 Allahabad and if their statement U/s 313 Cr.PC is believed to be correct their application

 Ex.DW6/7 dtd 22/2/02 was only to mislead the

 court to show that they were in Ghaziabad.

xvii) The accused persons have also

 produced in defence DW4 Pawan Kumar Diwan

 and DW14 Manuj Diwan. The evidence of these

 witnesses have already been discussed in the

 circumstance 'Alibi' and is therefore not

 repeated for the sake of brevity. The accused

 Vikas Yadav has claimed that he had not

 absconded but from Diamond Palace he had

 gone to the house of DW1 Ashok Gandhi to

 attend the ring ceremony of his son Amit and

 thereafter he went to Karnal to attend the 607 havan and ring ceremony. It is pertinent to

mention that he did not give the name of DW4

Pawan Kumar Diwan and DW14 Manuj Diwan

in his statement U/s 313 Cr.PC that he was to

attend the ring ceremony of DW14 Manuj

Diwan at their house at Karnal. Besides, to none

of the prosecution witnesses particularly PW34

SI JK Gangwar and PW35 SI Anil Somania it

was suggested by the counsel for accused Vikas

Yadav that accused Vikas Yadav had not

absconded and had a scheduled program till

19/2/02 ie to attend the function at Karnal on

17/2/02, his visit to Mukeria in the evening of

17/2/02 and his visit to his constituency Bisoli

on 18­19/2/02. As such the evidence of DW4 &

DW14 to this effect does not inspire credence,

particularly, when they kept quiet for 5 long

years and did not inform any police authority 608 or any court that the accused persons had not

 absconded but were present at their house on

 17/2/02. xviii) The other witness examined in defence

 is DW11 Ombir Director Administration with

 New India Sucrose Ltd who appeared in

 defence of accused Vikas Yadav. He produced

 the register purportedly containing entries of

 the visit of senior officers in the company

 Oswal Sugar Ltd Mukeria. The register produced

 by him contained entries of senior officers wef

 22/1/01 to 2/ 4/02. He testified that in the

 register at S.No. 11 dtd 17/2/02 at 19:10 hrs

 there is an entry to the effect that accused

 Vikas Yadav had visited factory Oswal Sugar

 Ltd Mukeria. xix) In ans to the court question the witness

 stated that the signatures of the visitors were 609 never obtained in the register Ex.PW11/D and

the entries were filled in by the gate clerk or

shift incharge. During cross examination this

witness admitted that after this entry at S.No.11

no other person entered the factory on that day

and this was the last entry. This witness could

not tell who was the gate clerk on that day. He

admitted that the register Ex.PW11/D was not

bearing the stamp of the company or signatures

of any officers of the company. He also

admitted that though accused Vikas Yadav was

the Managing Director of Oswal Sugar Ltd there

was no entry in the register Ex.PW11/D

regarding visit of accused Vikas Yadav to the

factory prior to 17/2/02. He further stated that

accused Vikas Yadav did not sign any document

on 17/2/02 when he visited the factory. He

stated that Vikas Yadav left the factory at 610 7:40pm as per the register. xx) The testimony of this witness does not

 inspire any credance for the reason that prior

 to the relevant entry on 17/2/02 in the register

 there is no other entry of visit of Vikas Yadav

 in the factory prior to 17/2/02 so the possibility

 of manipulating the aforesaid entry in the

 register Ex.PW11/D of his arrival at 7:10pm

 cannot be ruled out. Besides, the person

 concerned who made the relevant entry in the

 register has not been produced in the witness

 box to say that the relevant entry was in his

 hand and he had seen Vikas Yadav arriving in

 the factory on that day. The register produced

 does not bear any authenticity as it does not

 bear the signatures of any senior officers of the

 company. Besides, DW11 testified during cross

 examination that he had met Vikas Yadav in 611 the factory on 17/2/02 at 7:30pm, whereas, as

per entry No. 6 in the register Ex.PW11/D he

had left the factory at 4:45pm and his arrival in

the factory again is recorded at 9:20pm. So he

could not be present at the factory at 7:30pm to

say he met Vikas Yadav at that time. His

explanation that from the factory itself he

entered the yard at 4:45pm is of no

consequence when he has admitted in answer

to the court question that the arrival and

departure entry is made only at one gate. His

explanation that when he entered the yard from

the factory somebody must have informed the

guard that he had left the factory and had

entered the yard and thus his departure entry

must have been made by the guard, is again

to mislead the court. It is further pertinent to

note that neither PW34 SI JK Gangwar nor 612 PW35 SI Anil Somania were suggested during

 their cross examination that accused Vikas

 Yadav on the evening of 17/2/02 was at

 Mukeria in his factory Oswal Sugar Ltd. 

xxi) The other witnesses examined by the

 accused persons ie DW 9 Sh Bhairav Prasad

 Maurya deposed about the presence of accused

 Vikas Yadav in the Bisoli Constituency in the

 SDM Office complex on 19.2.02 where all the

 candidates who had contested election from

 Bisoli Constituency were invited to furnish the

 list of their respective agents to be present at

 the time of counting. This witness testified that

 he alongwith his associate had visited the

 aforesaid complex since his relative Gainda

 Lal Maurya was one of the candidates and he

 had supported him on behalf of his Samaj

 community. He stated that accused Vikas Yadav 613 was also present there alongwith others. He

also deposed that Arvind, dummy candidate

of accused Vikas Yadav was also present there

to give the names of his agents. The witness

stated that he had requested the SDM not to

provide any agent to Arvind since he had

contested election independently and had

withdrawn in support of accused Vikas Yadav.

He further deposed that an altercation took

place between supporters of Vikas Yadav and

Gainda Lal Maurya and the dispute resolved

around 2 pm. It is pertinent to mention that

this witness has failed to produce any

documentary evidence on record that Sh Gainda

Lal Maurya was one of the contests and he was

his relative or that Arvind was dummy

candidate of accused Vikas Yadav and had

contested elections independently and lateron 614 had withdrawn in support of the accused. There

is also no document on record that on 19/2/02

SDM had called any meeting of the candidates

to furnish the names of the counting agents to

substantiate the claim of this witness. No such

evidence from the office of concerned SDM has

been produced. Besides, no such suggestion was

given to PW34 SI JK Gangwar and PW35 SI

Anil Somania that Vikas Yadav was in his

constituency on 19/2/02. Nor his family

members informed the police about his

schedule. As such the defence through the

testimony of this witness has failed to prove the

presence of accused Vikas Yadav in Bisoli on

19.2.02. It is also important to note that

accused Vikas Yadav in his statement U/s 313 Cr.PC stated that he reached Mukeria on

17/2/02 and left for Bisoli on 18/2/02 but he 615 did not explain as to where he spent the night

 of 17­18/2/02. xxii) The other witness examined by the

 defence to prove the presence of accused Vikas

 Yadav in the constituency Bisoli Badauin on

 19.02.02 is DW 17 Sh Sandeep Mishra who

 testified that accused Vikas Yadav had met him

 on 19/2/02 at about 9 am in the election office

 at Bisoli as counting agents were to be

 appointed and the meeting was to take place in

 the office of SDM for the said purpose. He

 testified that when Vikas Yadav had gone to his

 constituency he had lost his bag which

 contained the photographs of the agents to be

 nominated and other documents relating to the

 election Vikas Yadav informed him about the

 lost of bag and he advised him to inform the

 concerned police station. He further stated that 616 accused Vikas Yadav had given a complaint in

 the PS Faiz Ganj Behata where he

 accompanied him and he gave a written

 complaint in the PS in his presence and

 obtained the receipt which he handed over to

 him to collect the bag, if recovered, against the

 receipt. He stated that the complaint is

 bearing the signature of accused Vikas Yadav

 and it was reduced into writing by someone

 else but he could not tell the name of such

 person. He stated that two complaint were

 prepared and both were handed over to the

 constable in the PS. One copy was received in

 the PS and on the other receipt was issued

 which is Ex.DW 17/A bearing his signature at

 point A. He further testified that the meeting

 held in the office of SDM on 19.2.02.

xxiii) The aforesaid testimony of the witness 617 does not find corroboration from the statement

of the accused U/s 313 Cr. PC to the effect that

on that day he had lost his bag and in the

company of DW 17 Sh Sandeep Mishra he

had lodged the complaint with PS . Besides ,

the aforesaid complaint does not inspire any

credence as there is no diary No. on the said

complaint against which it was received in the

PS. Besides, there is over writing in the date

19/2/02 on the top of the application as well

as in the body of the application and with naked eye it can be seen that the date 10 was converted into 19, as such the evidence

of this witness is no help to the accused Vikas

Yadav that on 19.2.02 he was in his

constituency and had not absconded. To the

contrary in my opinion accused has led false

evidence which amounts to be an additional 618 link in the chain of circumstance against the

accused. It is important to note that DW 17

Sh Sandeep Mishra admitted that he did not

produce the aforesaid letter Ex DW 17/A since

19.2.02 till he was examined in this court ,

before any authority or before any court and

he answered bluntly that there was no such

necessity. It is strange to note that this witness

kept quiet for more than 5 years and

suddenly he appeared before the Court

alongwith the document to claim that Vikas

Yadav was present in his constituency on

19.2.02. The defence did not even care to

summon any police official to prove the receipt

of the complaint Ex DW 17/A in the PS which

as per DW17 was submitted personally by

accused Vikas Yadav. Another important

aspect in this regard is noted from the 619 document Ex. DW 17/A that it is not even

bearing the address of the accused Vikas

Yadav where he could be intimated by the

police if the lost bag was recovered lateron. It

is also seen from the complaint that there is no

date affixed under the signature of accused

Vikas Yadav. As such the possibility of

manipulation of the aforesaid document cannot

be ruled out. Accused Vikas Yadav in his

statement U/s 313 Cr.PC stated that he left for

Bisoli for attending ring ceremony at Karnal .

He left for Bisoli on 18/2/02 evening and

reached there in the morning of 19/2/02. There

he came to know that he was being framed in

some false case. (It is for this reason he

concocted the application to the PS about loss

of his bag). After that he left for Allahabad and

reached there on 20/2/02 morning. He claims to 620 have informed his advocate Rajender Chaudhary

 at Ghaziabad about their will to surrender but

 his said claim does not find corroboration from

 the testimony of DW3 Adv. Rajender Chaudhary

 who did not utter a single word in this regard.

xxiv) The accused Vikas Yadav in view

 of the discussion referred above has failed to

 create any doubt about the claim of the

 prosecution that he had not absconded since

 after the incident. Here the testimony of PW

 38 Bharti Yadav during cross examination by

 Spl PP for State recorded on 30.11.06 is

 relevant. She categorically testified that on

 17.2.02 she never met Vishal and Vikas at her

 residence. She further categorically stated that

 after Vikas and Vishal left Diamond Palace

 to his knowledge they did not return back on

 16.2.02. She was put a specific question by Spl 621 PP for State during her cross examination , the

 question is reproduced as follows: ­

''Ques.: I put it to you that from the intervening
night of 16/17.2.02 your brothers Vikas, Vishal
remained absconding till 23.2.02 from home and did
not visit the same, What have you to say? 
Ans: It is correct that I did not meet them during
this period but I cannot say that they never visited the
house during the same. ''

xxv) The witness has given a very dicey

 answer and on one hand she admits that she

 did not meet them during the period from the

 intervening night of 16/17.2.02 till 23.2.02 and in

 the same breath she stated that she cannot say

 that they never visited the house during this

 period. It is pertinent to note that she did not

 say positively that accused persons were there

 in the house during this period. She being the 622 real sister of accused Vikas Yadav, it is not

 possible that she did not meet him for one

 week despite living in the same house and

 particularly in the circumstances of the case

 when a case had been registered against him

 for allegedly abducting Nitish Katara with

 whom she was planning to marry and it is

 obvious she must have made queries about him

 when she did not find him there. xxvi) So far accused Vishal Yadav is

 concerned he has claimed in his statement U/s

 313 Cr PC Question 92 which is as follows:­

Ques 92: It is further in evidence against you that on
19.2.02 you alongwith your co accused were searched
by the IO in Udyog Vihar Gurgaon Mukeria
Hoshiyarpur Punjab and Dhaneri Farm House
District Bedkui (UP) but you were not found available
at the aforesaid addresses. What have you to say? 623 Ans : I do not know if police had gone in
search of me on the addresses referred above on
19.2.02. On that day I was present at my house at
Ghaziabad.'' 

xxvii) However, he has also failed to lead

 any evidence on record to this effect. The house

 search memos Ex PW 35/2 & 3 are bearing

 the signatures of the mothers of both the

 accused and in these memos it is specifically

 mentioned that both the accused were not

 available at their residence. Neither the mother

 of accused Vikas Yadav nor of accused Vishal

 Yadav have appeared in the witness box to

 deny these memos and to claim that the

 accused persons were very much present in

 their house. xxviii) The other witnesses examined in 624 defence are DW12 Arvind Mishra and PW19 Jai

Singh, both practising advocates at High Court

of Allahabad who deposed about the presence

of both the accused persons in Allahabad on

20.2.02 and 21.2.02 where they had sought

advise from them as well as Sr counsel Sh AD

Giri about the present case and they were

advised to surrender before the concerned court.

Spl. PP for State has drawn my attention to the

application moved in the Court of CJM

Ghaziabad both the accused seeking exemption

from appearance on 22.2.02 that they were

indisposed and were unable to appear before

the Court. As argued by Spl. for State both the

accused persons cannot be present at two

places at the same time ie 22.2.02 at

Ghaziabad where the application for their

personal exemption was moved and then at 625 Allahabad where they were present to seek

 legal advice. It is not the case of the accused

 persons that on 22.2.02 they had come back to

 Ghaziabad . The record speaks itself that on

 23.2.02 in the earlier hours the accused persons

 were apprehended at the Dabra PS and were

 booked under Arms Act which arrest has been

 termed by the prosecution as stage managed.

 In these circumstances the testimony of both

 these DW 12 Arvind Mishra and DW 19 Jai

 Singh does not inspire credence. Particularly,

 when this defence was not put to prosecution

 witnesses nor accused produced any

 documentary evidence of their visit to

 Allahabad such like Railway ticket, Air ticket,

 etc.

xxix) In view of the above discussion

 I am of the opinion that the prosecution has 626 proved on record beyond reasonable doubt

 that both the accused had absconded after the

 incident and were not available at their house

 nor at any other place where they were

 expected to be present from 17/2/02 till their

 arrest on 23/2/02 by Dabra Police and lateron

 they were arrested within the jurisdiction of PS

 Dabra MP. (The evidence relating to their arrest

 shall be discussed in the later part of the

 judgment). The fact of absconding of the

 accused persons is a strong circumstance against

 them and lends support to the other evidence

 produced by the prosecution. It provides an

 additional link in the chain of circumstances

 relied upon by the prosecution. 17.02.02 are PW 23 Virender Singh, PW 4

 Inspt Chanderpal Singh and PW 5 Ct Mudasar

 Khan. ii) PW 23 Virender Singh testified that on

 17.2.02 he was going to Khurja from his

 village. At about 9/ 9.15 am in the morning he

 was 1 km before Khurja when he saw one

 naked deadbody lying on the right side of the

 road in burnt condition. He stopped his jeep

 since there was a small crowd. He got down

 from the jeep and saw dead body lying near

 the road. Since he was possessing mobile phone,

 he made a call to Kotwali City and gave the

 information regarding the deadbody lying

 there. He further testified that after giving

 information he went to Khurja and returned 628 after one hour and saw that police was already

 there at the spot where the deadbody was

 lying. iii) On the information of Virender Singh

 PW 23 regarding the deadbody lying near the

 road GD NO 12 Ex. PW 4/A was registered in

 the PS Khurja. iv) PW 4 Inspt Chanderpal Singh testified

 that he was the incharge of the PS Khurja

 during Feb 2002 . On 17.2.02 at about 9 am

 an information was received on telephone at

 PS from one Virender Singh i e PW 23 that

 one deadbody was lying on Shikarpur Road. The information was registered vide GD No. 12 Ex. PW 4/A. After recording his departure in

 the same GD, he reached the spot alongwith

 his staff where the deadbody was stated to be

 lying. On reaching the spot he found that the 629 male deadbody was lying there in a pit which

was adjoining the kacha portion of the road.

He called the people from adjoining villages

for identification of the deadbody but did not

succeed. He testified that he got the deadbody

photographed. He proved the photographs of

deadbody as ExPW4/2 and 4/3 respectively.

Under his instruction SI Chattarpal prepared

panchnama of the deadbody Ex. PW 3/2A.

The witness after going through the panchnama

testified that as per the same the right hand of

the deadbody was burnt with other parts but

left hand was not burnt. He further stated that

left hand fingers were not burnt. He further

testified that the witnesses to the panchnama

were Surender Singh, Jamil, Zarif, Devi and

Mukesh, all public persons. He stated that

deadbody after preparing inquest report was 630 sealed in a cloth and was sent for postmortem

 to mortuary HQ in sealed condition He

 further testified that he prepared the siteplan

 of the place of recovery of deadbody Ex. PW

 4/4. He also explained over writings on the

 inquest report Ex PW 3/2A relating to time. v) PW 5 Ct Mudasar Khan of PS Khurja

 City deposed on the lines of PW 4 Inspt

 Chanderpal Singh about recovery of deadbody

 from the spot on 17.2.02. He admitted his

 signatures at point B on panchnama Ex PW 3/2.

 He testified that he had received the sealed

 deadbody alongwith the documents and took

 the same to mortuary Bulandshahar alongwith

 Ct Mahender. vi) Recovery of deadbody of an

 unidentified person on 17.2.02 from Shikarpur

 Road as such is not disputed by the accused 631 persons. From the testimony of PW 23

 Virender Singh who spotted the deadbody in

 burnt condition and informed the police from

 his mobile phone which information was

 reduced into writing vide GD NO 12 Ex.

 PW 4/A and the testimony of PW 4 Inspt

 Chanderpal Singh and PW 5 Ct Mudasar Khan

 the recovery of unidentified deadbody on

 17.02.02 from the spot stands proved as the

 testimony of all these witnesses in this regard

 was not subjected to cross examination by the

 counsel for accused persons. conducted by Dr Anil Singhal, CMO District

 Hospital Bulandshahar on 18.02.02. He was

 examined by the prosecution as PW 3. 632 ii) The deadbody was deposited in the

 mortuary Bulandshahar by PW 5 Ct Mudasar

 Khan alongwith Ct Mahender in a sealed cloth

 on 17.2.02. PW 5 Ct Mudasar Khan testified

 that on 17.2.02 the postmortem was not

 conducted and as such he alongwith Ct

 Mahender remained with the deadbody. He

 stated that on the next day 18.2.02 the doctor

 came to the mortuary for postmortem and he

 handed over the documents given to him by

 the seniors alongwith the deadbody to the

 doctor for postmortem. After the postmortem

 was conducted the deadbody, the inquest papers

 and postmortem report were handed over to

 him . He testified that the postmortem report

 Ex. PW 3/3 is bearing his signature at point A

 in token of his having received the documents

 and the body. He further stated that the 633 documents were handed over to Ct Pradeep

 Kumar who had come from the PS to the

 mortuary for giving them to the SHO.

 Further that he alongwith Ct. Mahender

 remained in the mortuary upto 21.2.02 till the

 Ghaziabad police reached the mortuary and

 took the deadbody from them. iii) The witness denied during cross

 examination that he had not accompanied the

 deadbody or had made a false statement to this

 effect. iv) PW3 Dr Anil Singhal who conducted the

 postmortem, during his testimony gave the

 details of his qualification. He stated that he

 was MS Orthopedic and did MBBS from

 KGMC Lucknow. He did MS from King

 George Medical College and joined services in

 Oct 1991. He was working in District Hospital 634 Bulandshahar since August 1997 and during

 his tenure had conducted various postmortems

 and submitted reports regarding the

 postmortems conducted by him and has also

 appeared as a witness in various courts. v) Regarding the postmortem conducted

 on the unidentified deadbody he testified that

 he had received request for conducting

 postmortem vide request letter Ex.PW 3/1,

 alongwith 8 more documents which he signed

 on each page at point A and which are

 collectively Ex. PW 3/2 inclusive of the inquest

 report. vi) He further testified that the deadbody

 was brought by Ct Mudasar Khan and Ct

 Mahender PS Kotwali Khurja Nagar. The

 deadbody was of unknown male person. He

 received the deadbody on 18.2.02 at about 3 pm 635 in sealed condition and seal was found intact.

 He started postmortem on the deadbody at 3

 pm. He testified that on examination the

 length of the deadbody ( height) was found to

 be 5.9 inches, sole 9 inches, hair on the skull

 inches long charred. a) External examination of the deadbody: He testified that in his opinion death

was due to coma as a result of antemortem head

injury and burns were postmortem. Duration of

death was about 2 days before the postmortem. vii) He was put a specific question by the

Spl PP for State which is reproduced as follows: The doctor gave the answer. A: It is true but it is written in the medical

jurisprudence book that hammer would produce

depression type of fracture. The witness was again put another

question which is reproduced. Ques. Is it correct that commuted and depression

fracture are both caused by hard object, the nature of

the fracture depends upon the force used?

A: It is partially correct. The nature of fracture i e

depression fracture and comminuted fracture both are

caused by blunt force. However the comminuted

fracture is caused by blunt force applied with high 640 force with large surface area of the object and

depression fracture is caused by hard object applied

with high force surface area of the object to be small

and with possibility of bone piece being separated and

going to the skull. x) He admitted it to be correct that

as per postmortem conducted by him there was

no bone piece in the cavity. He also admitted

that he had not written the depth of skull cavity.

It is stated that haemotoma was present in the

cavity. The Spl PP for State had put very

important following questions to the doctor: A specific question was put to the

witness which is reproduced as follows: The defence counsel have further argued that

the time of death given by doctor was 2 days

prior to the postmortem and therefore the

death could not have been caused during the

period from 12:30am on 16­17/2/02 till 9am on

17/2/02 when the dead body was spotted. 646 xii) On the other hand the Spl. PP for

 State has argued that the experts evidence is

 always an opinion evidence and is not

 conclusive as per the provisions of Sec. 45 of

 the Evidence Act. It is submitted that the doctor

 has opined that the possibility of the injury to

 the deceased being caused by the hammer is

 less as the dimension of the hammer does not

 tally with the dimension of the wound. It is

 further submit that the doctor while giving such

 an opinion did not keep in mind the seat of

 the injury which is a very important factor as if

 the surface is flat and any hammer is used the

 dimension of the injury would be as per the

 dimension of the object hit with the hammer

 but in case where the surface is not flat but

 elliptical or curved, the size of injury would not

 be as per the hitting object but it would be as 647 per the area of the object coming in contact

with the hammer. It is further submitted that

the injury is on the left side of the head which

is a curved surface and the doctor did not take

this fact into consideration while giving such an

opinion. It is further argued by the Ld. Spl.PP

for State that hammer can be used as a

weapon in three ways. The object can be hit by

the hammer from the broader part of the

hammer or the small flat end or the small

pointed end and that the prosecution does not

know how this hammer was used by the

accused persons. It is submitted that in these

circumstances, the opinion of the doctor that

dimension of the hammer does not tally with

the dimension of the injury and that there is

less possibility of the injury on the deceased

being caused by this hammer is fallicious. 648 xiii) The Spl.PP for State has also drawn my

 attention towards the testimony of PW3 Dr. Anil

 Singhal where he admitted that both the

 fractures comminuted and depression are caused

 by hard object and the nature of fracture

 depends upon the force use. He has further

 drawn my attention towards the statement of

 the doctor where he opined that the possibility

 of the injury on the person of deceased with

 this hammer cannot be ruled out. xiv) It is further submitted that the

 doctor has given two conflicting statement

 before the court as at one stage he stated '' It

 is correct that as per the postmortem report

 there was no bone piece in the cavity and

 during his cross examination by the counsel for

 accused Vikas Yadav he stated in answer to a

 question of the defence counsel that he did not 649 find any piece of bone in the cavity but again

in the later part of his cross examination he

stated that he had not counted the fracture

pieces but there were multiple pieces. It is

submitted that the evidence of the doctor is

confusing and he has not made it clear whether

it was depressed fracture or comminuted

fracture and whether there was bone pieces or

not. Further that under such circumstances the

opinion of the doctor is not conclusive and the

court has to form its own opinion on the basis

of the available material and the authoritative

books on medical jurisprudence. To that effect

he has cited an authority reported in 1999(5)

SCC 96 whereby it has been held by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court that : Evidence of an expert like any other evidence

 has to be appreciated in accordance with law

 and accepted if trustworthy. xx) So far the postmortem reports are

 concerned sufficient weightage is to be given to

 the doctor who conducted the postmortem but

 giving weightage does not ipso facto mean that 652 each and every statement made by a medical

 witness should be accepted on its face value

 even if it is self contradictory as held in AIR

 1999 SC2416 . xxi) The court does not become functus

 officio to draw the conclusions from the

 material on record even if the expert has given

 an opinion or the finding. xxii) As per the Modi's Medical Jurisprudence

 and Toxicology '' depressed fractures are those

 in which portions of fractured bones are driven

 inwards into the skull cavity. A depressed

 fracture when caused by a heavy instrument

 with a small striking surface is often localised,

 the shape may give valuable information as to

 the weapon used in inflicting it.''

 ''In Comminuted fracture the bone is broken

into two or more pieces. In the case of 653 comminuted fractures the area of comminution is

frequently oval or circular in shape, the included

bone may be broken into several pieces and one

or more of these fragments are depressed. These

injuries are almost invariably caused by blows

with heavy instruments''

xxiii) The type of skull fracture that may

 result from violence depends on the shape of

 the skull, mobility of the skull, presence of scalp

 hair, coverings on the head like a cap, hat,

 turban etc, weight and velocity of the weapon,

 the amount of force, the type of appliance used

 like a blunt or cutting weapon, a pointed or

 edged object, the area large or small to which

 the force is applied, the varying on which its

 strength depends, the elasticity of the adult

 skull bone is limited, the outer or inner table of

 the skull may suffer damage differently, the 654 shape of the striking object may be marked on

 the outer table and secondary fissures may be

 seen extending from this area while the inner

 table could show more extensive damage and

 splintering. Blunt objects may cause depressed

 fracture at the point of impact. xxiv) In view of the above referred material, I

 am of the opinion that the type of skull

 fracture depends not only on the nature of the

 weapon used but also on many other factors

 such like : However, it is claimed by him that comminuted

 fracture is caused by blunt force applied with

 high force with large surface area of the object.

xxvii) Regarding depressed fracture it is

 stated that it is also caused by hard object

 applied with high force , surface area of the

 object to be small with the possibility of bone

 being separated and going to the skull. From

 the testimony of the doctor it is clear that the 656 injury on the left frontal bone of the deceased

was a comminuted fracture as it is he who

examined the injury and could say with more

precision whether it was depressed fracture

with bone going deep in cavity or it was

comminuted fracture with bone broken in two

or more pieces. Now what is left to be seen is

whether it is caused by hammer Ex.P1. As

argued by the defence counsel that the doctor

stated that there is greater possibility that injury

on the head of deceased could not have been

caused by hammer Ex.P1, I find from the record

that the doctor did not state so but to the

contrary stated that there was less possibility of

the injury being caused by the hammer Ex.P1

but at the same time in answer to the question

of Ld. Spl. PP he testified that the possibility of

injury being caused by Ex.P1 on the deceased 657 cannot be ruled out and he also admitted that

 the injury on the skull of the deceased was

 sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course

 of nature. xxviii) As observed from the Modi's

 jurisprudence that the type of skull fracture

 depends on the shape of the skull and the

 amount of force and the type of appliance used

 like a blunt object, it is seen in the present case

 that the injury in question was on the left

 frontal bone 7cm above left eyebrow. The

 photograph Ex.PW11/5 of Nitish Katara shows

 that he had a broad forehead and as such it

 appears that the seat of injury was just near

 the end of the forehead and this seat of injury

 is curving towards the skull. So it is not

 possible that the entire base of the weapon

 would leave its marks in the form of shape of 658 the weapon at the said place. Besides, it is not

necessary that injury would always correspond

with the base of weapon. The dimension of the

wound can be less or more than the base of

the weapon used. So the opinion of PW3 that

there was less possibility of the injury being

caused by hammer Ex.P1 as the dimension of

hammer does not tally with the dimension of

the lacerated wound and the nature of fracture

on the skull was comminuted fracture while the

hammer would produce depression type of

fracture, in my opinion is incorrect. In view of

the Modi's Medical Jurisprudence and

Toxicology, in my opinion both the comminuted

and depressed fractures are caused by any blunt

object. The hammer is a blunt object and it

depends on the force used by the offender and

the place of injury whether it comes out to be 659 comminuted fracture or depressed fracture.

Therefore, in my opinion the testimony of PW3

that comminuted fracture cannot be caused by

hammer Ex.P1 is of no consequence. It appears

that PW3 either had no clear view of

comminuted or depressed fracture as his

testimony is quite confusing or he was under The answer of the doctor is as follows : This fact also finds support from other

 circumstances proved by the prosecution ie

 recovery of the hammer Ex.P1 at the instance of

 accused Vikas Yadav in furtherance of his

 disclosure statement Ex.PW35/16 and the human

 blood found on the hammer Ex.P1 vide CFSL

 report Ex. PW35/57. Thus, these three

 circumstances have also been proved on record

 conclusively by the prosecution against the

 accused persons. D. IDENTIFICATION OF DEADBODY 670 i) The prosecution in support of its

 claim that the unidentified deadbody recovered

 on 17.2.02 from Shikarpur Road was of

 deceased Nitish Katara has relied upon the

 testimony of PW 2Chet Ram Finger Prints

 Expert, Finger Print Bureau, Malviya Nagar, PW

 8 Dr TD Dogra , PW 10 Dr. Sanjeev Lalwani,

 PW 17 SI RC Makholia, PW 30 Smt Neelam

 Katara, mother of Nitish Katara, PW34 SI JK

 Gangwar, PW35 SI Anil Somania and PW39

 Nitin Katara, the brother of the deceased. ii) Before the deadbody could be identified

 through the science of finger prints and DNA,

 PW 30 Mrs Neelam Katara had identified the

 unidentified deadbody to be of his son Nitish

 Katara on 21.2.02. She testified she went for

 identification of the deadbody on 21.2.02 and

 she was taken by the police of Kavi Nagar to 671 a place beyond Khurja which she was told to

be a mortuary . She stated that she saw a

deadbody of her son lying on the straw in

burnt condition. She saw his intestines open

since skin had got burnt. She further stated

that when they opened the door of the cabin ,

the first thing she saw was foot and within

second of seeing the foot she recognised that it

was body of her son. She further stated that

after recognising him from his foot, she saw his

left arm which was not completely burnt and

was having colour of the skin of her son . Her

son was quite tall about 5.9 inches but despite

his tallness he was having short hand and she

used to tell him that though he is tall his

hands were of the size of her hands and they

used to put hand on each other. She stated

that after seeing the left arm unburnt she put 672 her hand on his hand and found it to be of the

 same size which confirmed the identification of

 her son. She with great confidence testified

 that she could identify him as a mother can

 identify his child whose face is smeared in

 colours in Holi. iii) During cross examination by the counsel

 for the accused persons she denied the

 suggestion given by Sh KN Balgopal, counsel

 for accused Vikas Yadav that the left hand

 fingers of the body which she had identified as

 of her son, were bent inside. She voluntarily

 stated that they were absolutely straight as she

 had put her palm over the palm of her son.

 She categorically stated that she told the IO

 that deadbody was of her son. The witness

 was put a specific question as follows: v) Besides PW 39 Nitin, her son also

 corroborated her testimony to the effect that

 they had gone to Khurja for identification of

 the deadbody of the deceased on 21.2.02 and

 he was not cross examined by the counsel for

 both the accused to this effect nor any

 suggestion was given to him that they did not

 visit mortuary at Khurja on 21.2.02 or instead 675 they visited the place on 17.2.02. Besides, PW

 34 SI JK Gangwar also corroborated the

 statement of PW 30 Mrs Neelam Katara to

 this effect. He testified that on 21.2.02 SO

 Anil Somania sent him to mortuary of

 Bulandshahar where the deadbody recovered

 from Khurja City had been kept. He was sent

 there for protection of the deadbody . While

 he was there protecting the deadbody, PW35 SO

 Anil Somania, PW 30 Neelam Katara and PW

 39 Nitin Katara and one Ajay Prasad , relative

 of Neelam Katara reached mortuary at about

 11am. PW 30 Neelam Katara and PW39 Nitin

 Katara saw the deadbody and identified it to be

 of Nitish Katara. vi) The testimony of PW 34 SI JK

 Gangwar was not discredited during his cross

 examination as no suggestion was given to 676 him that either Neelam Katara and Nitin did

 not identify the deadbody or that they had

 gone to the mortuary on 17.2.02 and not on

 21/2/02. To the contrary it is seen in the cross

 examination of the witness by Sh SK Sharma,

 counsel for accused Vishal Yadav, that he

 was suggested that before he reached the

 mortuary in Bulandshahar the deadbody had

 not been identified. As per the testimony of

 this witness he had gone to the mortuary for

 the protection of the deadbody only 21.2.02, as

 such through this cross examination it is

 deemed to be admitted by the defence that the

 deadbody was not identified before 21.2.02. vii) PW 35 SI Anil Somania is the IO

 of the present case. He too corroborated the

 statements of PW 30 Neelam Katara , PW 37

 Nitin Katara and PW 34 SI JK Gangwar with 677 regard to the identification of the deadbody by

PW 30 Neelam Katara and PW 37 Nitin

Katara on 21/2/02. He testified that on 21.2.02

he alongwith Neelam Katara, Ajay Prasad

and Nitin Katara went to the mortuary of

Bulandshahar and reached there at 1l am SI

JK Gangwar was already there with two

constables. Neelam Katara and Nitin Katara

identified the deadbody lying at the mortuary

as that of Nitish Katara who was kidnapped on

the night of 16­17/2/02. The said testimony

of the witness has not been disputed or

rebutted in any manner by the defence as he

was not subjected to cross examination in this

regard. I have no hesitation to hold that in

view of the unrebutted statement of Smt

Neelam Katara it stands proved on record that

the deadbody of unidentified person was of 678 Nitish Katara only which she identified on the

 basis of his foot and by putting her hand on

 the left hand of the deceased. No suggestion

 was given either to PW30 or PW39 that dead

 body was not of Nitish Katara. However,

 despite the fact she had identified the

 deadbody. She told the police to get the other

 test like DNA etc to be carried out so that her

 identification was not questioned, although she

 was 100% sure. She so stated in her cross

 examination by the defence counsel Sh. KN

 Balgopal on behalf of accused Vikas Yadav. Bulandshahar for seizure of the deadbody for

 the purpose of DNA finger printing. Perusal of

 the application shows that it was moved with a

 prayer for transfer of the deadbody to AIIMS 679 New Delhi for preservation for DNA finger

print examination. PW 35 SI Anil Somania

testified that he received the deadbody from the

Bulandshahar mortuary on 21.2.02 consequent to

the order of CJM and brought the same to

AIIMS hospital and deposited in freezer No. 8.

The order of the CJM to this effect has been

proved on record as Ex.PW 8/C. Both the

defence counsel agitated a lot as to why the

deadbody was sent to AIIMS for DNA finger

printing as the incident had taken place in UP

and as such these tests ought have been

conducted in UP only. It is alleged that it was

due to the pressure from the complainant party

the deadbody was sent here to Delhi to

influence the investigation. However, I find no

force in the argument as order Ex. PW 8/C

of the CJM Bulandshahar UP is absolutely clear 680 wherein it is observed that there was no facility

available in District Bulandshahar to preserve

the deadbody for DNA examination.

Considering that the deadbody was yet to be

identified as such it was handed over to IO of

the present case to deposit it with AIIMS New

Delhi for DNA finger printing and IO was

further directed that if the deadbody was not

found to be of Nitish Katara it should be

returned to PS Khurja District Bulandshahar.

As such, I find that there was no such

influence from the complainant side upon the

police in getting the deadbody transferred from

District Bulandshahar to AIIMS at Delhi but it

was the requirement of the hour since there

was no facility available in the District to

preserve the deadbody for conducting DNA

finger printing. In the present case the IO was 681 cross examined by the defence counsel Sh KN

Balgopal to the effect that there is no facility of

preserving the dead body for a longer time in

Bulandshahar , however, this question was not

put to the doctor who could have answered the

same with more precision­ firstly for the reason

he is a doctor and secondly he was conducting

postmortem at Bulandshahar mortuary and was

more aware of the conditions of the mortuary.

Nodoubt, the deadbody was already identified

by Neelam Katara, the mother of the deceased

but to be sure scientifically also the deadbody

was required to undergo DNA test. Besides,

during investigation IO also obtained the finger

prints from the unidentified deadbody for

comparison with the finger prints of Niish

Katara from the record his driving licence

maintained in the office of licencing authority 682 RTO Sarai Kale Khan. led by the prosecution with regard to the finger

 prints of the deceased. ii) The relevant witnesses with regard to

 the finger prints of the deceased are PW 2

 Chet Ram, Finger prints Expert and PW 35 SI

 Anil Somania , IO of the case. iii) Advocate Sh. KN Balgopal, counsel for

 accused Vikas Yadav has submitted that PW 2

 Chet Ram as per the testimony of SI Anil

 Somania was called to take the finger prints of

 the unidentified deadbody lying at AIIMS for

 comparison with the admitted finger prints of

 Nitish Katara collected from the record of his

 driving licence from RTO Sarai Kale Khan. It 683 is submitted that as per the Apex Court the

comparison of finger prints is a perfect science.

However, it is submitted that to prove it is a

perfect sign then one must follow the scientific

procedure fairly and not fraudulently. It is

submitted that in the present case the

prosecution has failed to prove on record from

the report of finger prints expert Ex PW 2/6

that the unidentified deadbody was of Nitish

Katara . It is submitted that as per the

testimony of PW 2 Chet Ram he had taken the

finger prints of all the five fingers of left hand

from the deadbody in AIIMS which are Ex. PW

2/1. He has further claimed to have collected

the finger pints of Niish Katara from the RTO

Sarai Kale Khan from the record of his driving

licence which are Ex. PW 2/2 and Ex.PW 2/4 is

the enlarged copy of the left index finger of 684 Nitish Katara collected from RTO Office. It is

submitted that during the course of his

examination in chief on his request he was

directed to produce the enlarged print of the

finger prints obtained from the deadbody i e

Ex PW 2/1. He produced the enlarged print

before the Court as Ex. PW 2/3 but he stated

that this print he had prepared not from the set

of finger prints Ex PW 2/1 but from the

another set of finger prints which was available

in his file. The defence counsel has argued

that the prosecution has failed to prove on

record that the set of finger prints EX PW

2/C1 which was in the file of PW 2 Chet Ram

were taken from the unidentified deadbody

and that the finger prints Ex PW 2/1 and Ex.

PW 2/C 1 were the same. It is further

submitted that the prosecution has also not 685 produced any evidence on record that PW 2

Chet Ram had infact collected the finger prints

of deceased Nitish Katara from the office of

RTO with which the finger prints obtained from

the deadbody were compared. Moreover, the

witness submitted a bald report Ex, PW 2/6

without giving any reason of his arriving at

the conclusion that as to how the finger

prints obtained from the RTO matched with

the finger prints of the deadbody . It is

further submitted that Ex PW 2/2 the finger

prints which the prosecution claims to have

been collected from the RTO clearly shows

that another finger prints impression in the

background which means that this finger print

was taken on some other finger print

impression. He has further assailed the

testimony of PW 2 Chet Ram on the ground 686 that he has only shown the similarities in the

two sets of fingers and not the dis­similarities.

Further the enlarged prints produced by the

witness in the Court were incomplete. The

comparison report Ex PW 2/5 filed by the

witness in the Court as per the directions does

not inspire any credence as per the defence

counsel as it was not based on the comparison

of the finger prints Ex.PW 2/1 collected from

the deadbody of the deceased and the

admitted finger prints of Nitish Katara. It is

further submitted that it has come on record

that even the finger prints taken from the file

of the witness was not enlarged entirely but

only a portion of it was enlarged and in such a

event it is not possible to point out the

fundamental differences. It is further submitted

that an attempt was made by the defence 687 during the cross examination to compare the

 finger prints taken from the mortuary with the

 finger prints maintained by the IO in the main

 file but the defence was not permitted to

 compare the same. It is submitted that though

 finger prints science is a perfect science but if

 unscientific and fraudulent methods are resorted

 to carve out a fabricated report then definitely

 there is nothing scientific in it. iv) Advocate Sh SK Sharma counsel for

 accused Vishal Yadav vehemently argued that

 whenever a deadbody unclaimed and

 unidentified is recovered the incharge of the PS

 shall first of all make all the efforts to take

 finger prints of the body to compare with the

 finger prints of the deadbody for the

 identification and all efforts shall be made to

 find out the person who could help in 688 identification of the deaddody. Thereafter the

 deadbody should be sent for postmortem and

 then disposed off. He has drawn my attention

 to Rule 135 Chapter XII under the heading

 Inquest Proceedings & Treatment of wound:­

 The finger prints of corpse should be taken.

 Ordinarily there is no much difficulty in

 taking the finger prints of the corpse but

 sometimes the fingers are wrinkled etc in that

 case skin should be removed from the fingers

 and place each in a different envelope and then

 sent to the finger print expert for opinion. v) Rules 135A : When a corpse recovered by

 the police is unclaimed, the police official

 should try to find out the faith to which the

 deceased belongs to dispose off the same as

 per the faith and religion of the corpse. If the 689 body is unclaimed then the State Officer Supdt

 may hand it over to the Supdt. Medical

 College for autopsy. vi) It is further submitted that

 this witness during cross examination by Sh KN

 Balgopal stated that he saw left hand of the

 body of the deceased safe. He did not pay

 attention to the palm. He further stated that he

 could not remember if the fingers of the

 deceased were in bent condition. It is argued

 that then it was duty of the IO to request the

 MO to examine the corpse and to take out the

 skin from the fingers and keep it in different

 envelopes and then sent the same for finger

 prints expert opinion. He has further argued

 that there is no explanation as to why after the

 postmortem was conducted on 18.2.02 the

 deadbody was not disposed off and why it was 690 kept in the mortuary till 21.2.02 on which date

 it was handed over to SI Anil Somania with the

 order of CJM Bulandshahar to deposit the

 same with AIIMS hospital at Delhi. It is argued

 by the defence counsel that whether the

 deadbody belonged to Nitish Katara or not was

 not weighing in the mind of police but what

 weighed in their mind was that they had come

 to know about recovery of dead body and they

 were trying to delay the matter so as to make

 a case against the accused persons. vii) On the other hand Spl PP for State

 has argued that PW 2 Chet Ram, the finger

 prints expert deposed that he collected the

 finger prints of the deadbody as per the

 procedure and compared with the finger prints

 record Licencing authority RTO and came to

 the conclusion that the finger prints of the 691 deadbody were identical to the finger prints

 recorded at the licencing authority RTO. Further

 that PW 2 Chet Ram has categorically stated

 as follows: viii) It is submitted that this witness was

thoroughly cross examined by the defence but

nothing material came out to discredit the

testimony of this witness. It is further submitted

that nothing was brought by the defence to

suggest that he was under the influence of either 692 IO or the complainant. The prosecution has

relied upon authorities reported in:­

 AIR 1978 SC page 1183, 

 AIR 1979 SC page 1708 ix) In the light of the arguments of the

 defence and the prosecution the testimony of

 both the witnesses PW 2 Chet Ram an PW

 35 SI Anil Somania is to be appreciated. x) PW 35 SI Anil Somania testified that

 on 22.2.02 he had called Chet Ram, Finger Print

 Expert from Delhi Police to the hospital to

 take the finger prints of the deadbody brought

 by him to AIIMS hospital. He testified that he

 took the fingers prints and the one set of

 finger print if ExPW2/1 which bears the

 signature of the witness at point D. He further

 testified that standard finger prints of Nitish

 Katara was obtained from RTO office Sarai Kale 693 Khan by Chet Ram since mother of the

 deceased had informed that the driving licence

 of Nitish Katara was made at Sarai Kale Khan,

 Transport Registration Office. xi) PW 2 Chet Ram, the finger prints

 expert testified that he was working as finger

 prints expert with finger print Bureau Delhi

 since Jan 1991. He had taken 3 years training

 in finger prints comparison in the Bureau

 itself. He claimed to have examined more than

 500 cases during his tenure of comparison of

 finger prints and to have appeared as a

 witness in more than 100 cases in Court. xii) He further stated that on 22.2.02 he

 was directed by Director, Finger Prints Bureau

 that deadbody was lying in AIIMS mortuary

 and he should obtain the finger prints. On

 receiving these directions, he went to AIIMS 694 hospital where SI Anil Somania of PS Kavi

 Nagar Ghaziabad and SP City, Sh.AK Raghav

 met him. They identified the deadbody. He

 alongwith the police officials went to the

 doctor Incharge mortuary AIIMS. The

 deadbody was taken out of freezer No. 8 by the

 sweepers of the mortuary . Thereafter he took

 finger prints of all five fingers of the left hand

 of the deceased. He proved these finger prints

 as Ex. PW 2/1 bearing his signature at A and

 of Anil Somania at point B and one another

 witness at point C. xiii) He further testified that on same day

 they went to Sarai Kale Khan Transport

 Authority and requested the authority staff to

 take out the record of driving licence of Niish

 Katara son of Nishit Katara, R/o 7 Chemsford

 Road, New Delhi. Record was taken out on 695 their request and enlarge print out of the left

hand and right hand index finger was given to

them . The print out of left index finger taken

from the record of the transport authority is

Ex.PW 2/2. It is stated that it was taken in his

presence and was bearing his signatures and

endorsement at point A to A. He further

testified that after receiving the enlarged print

out he compared the left index finger from

the enlarge print out with the left index finger

of the deadbody and within 10 minutes he told

that left index finger of the deadbody tallied

with the finger print on the licence of Nitish

Katara. He stated that he could compare the

finger prints taken by him of the deadbody

with the finger print taken from licencing

authority without enlargement. He described

the similarity on the basis of which he came 696 to the conclusion that the said two finger prints

 tallied with each other. He stated that first of

 all he compared pattern of the two finger

 prints and found it to be the same and next

 thing to be looked was number of ridges and

 whether the number were equal or not He

 testified that number of ridges in both the

 finger prints of the deadbody and prints of

 licencing authority were same. Further that the

 ridge characteristics found by him in two

 finger prints were identical in relative position

 and he considered these characteristics

 sufficient to arrive at conclusion that two

 finger prints were identical. xiv) He further stated that he could mark

 the identical points for the purpose of

 showing to the Court. The witness was thus

 directed to prepare the enlarged print of the 697 finger prints of the deadbody and to mark the

identical points so that the comparison was

more visible even to the Court with the finger

prints taken from the authority. He was

directed to produce three copies of the enlarged

print. The witness was given two days time for

the said purpose. The witness thereafter

produced the large photograph alongwith the

comparative chart and his detailed report of the

comparison of two finger prints , one of the

deadbody and other from the transport

authority, of Nitish Katara. He proved the

enlarged computer print of the index finger

of the deadbody as Ex.PW 2/3. The enlarged

computer print of the printed thumb impression

of Nitish Katara from the driving licence

record as Ex PW 2/4 and the original was

already on record as Ex. PW 2/2. He stated 698 that for saying that the two finger prints are of

the same person, there should be minimum 8

similarities which could be pointed out from the

finger prints . He marked 8 similarities in the

two finger prints by red ink marking them as

serial NO 1 to 8. He stated there may be more

similarities by which he meant ridge

characteristics. The chart of comparison of the

ridge characteristics prepared by him under

the directions of the Court is Ex. PW 2/5. He

gave the illustration about the number of ridge

counting between any two points marked by

him by describing there were 5 ridges between

point NO 7 and 8 marked by him in both

the Ex.PW 2/3 and 2/4 respectively. Between

point No. 5 and 7 there is one ridge in both

the exhibits. It is stated that the finger print

which was enlarged by him is Mark as point X 699 on Ex.PW 2/1. He voluntarily stated that he

 had prepared two sets of finger prints from

 the deadbody, one of which was available with

 the court record and the other was in his file.

 He stated that he got the enlarged finger print

 of the said from his file . He further stated that

 in his opinion the finger impression of any two

 persons in the world cannot be similar and

 each person has unique finger print. He

 proved his report Ex. PW 2/6 counter signed

 by his officiating director Sh. Rajesh Rohilla at

 point B and the same was forwarded to the SP

 Ghaziabad vide letter Ex. PW 2/7. xv) The defence counsel has

 submitted that the postmortem on dead body

 was conducted on 18/2/02 but there is no

 explanation as to why it was not disposed off

 as the identity of the same had not been 700 established and as per Rule 135A of UP Police

Rules after the postmortem the dead body has

to be disposed off. It is submitted that in the

present case the dead body was not disposed

off to falsely implicate the accused persons .

However in my opinion this argument has no

force as PW30 Mrs. Neelam Katara or the police

officials had no enmity with the accused

persons to falsely implicate them, instead of

searching for the dead body of Nitish Katara

and the real culprits. The arguments of the

defence counsel that the fingerprints were not

obtained in terms of Sec. 135 Chapter XII under

the headings ''Inquest proceedings and

treatment of wounds'', may be this was a lapse

on the part of the investigating officer of the

case registered U/s 302 IPC with PS Kavi Nagar

but for this no benefit can be given to the 701 accused persons as it is settled law that faulty

investigation does not give any benefit to the

accused persons. However, so far the other

argument of the defence with regard to the

admissibility of the evidence of the finger prints

in the present case is concerned, I fully agree

to the fact that in the present case no evidence

has been produced by the prosecution that

deceased was possessing any driving license. No

evidence has been produced from the licensing

authority Sarai Kale Khan to this effect,

particularly, when PW 2 Chetram had collected

the finger prints record from the aforesaid

office. Besides, this witness has admitted in his

cross examination that he did not move any

application in the licensing authority to obtain

the record of finger prints of deceased Nitish

Katara. In these circumstances, it was all the 702 more necessary for the prosecution to have

summoned the relevant witness from the

authority to prove that the finger prints from

the record of driving licence of Nitish Katra was

collected by PW2 Chetram. The other anomaly

in the testimony of this witness was found that

when he was directed by the Court to produce

the comparison chart and he produced the

comparison chart Ex.PW2/5 and explained to

the court that this chart he had prepared not

from the finger prints Ex.PW2/1 collected from

the dead body of unidentified person in AIIMS

which was placed on record by him but from

another set of finger prints which was lying on

his own file. No doubt during the cross

examination of this witness , with the orders of

the court he placed on record the said set of

finger prints from the dead body on the court 703 record which is Ex.PW2/C1. However, the

prosecution has no where proved on record that

the finger prints obtained from the dead body

which are on record as Ex.PW2/1 and were

originally relied upon by the prosecution and

the set of finger prints Ex.PW2/C1 produced by

the witness from his own record were same

and that PW2 Chetram had infact obtained the

aforesaid other set of finger prints Ex.PW2/C1

from the deadbody. It is important to note that

PW35 SI Anil Somania who was present at the

time when the fingerprints were taken by PW

Chetram from the dead body of deceased

testified during cross examination that he had

taken only one set of finger prints from the

dead body which are Ex.PW2/1. It is further

important to note that originally PW Chetram

did not file on record the comparison chart and 704 simply gave his report Ex.PW2/6 to the effect

that as a result of comparison of the left index

finger impressions of the unidentified dead

body were compared with the specimen left

index finger impression of Nitish Katara

available with the Deptt of Transport, Govt of

NCT, Delhi and were found to be identical. He

did not furnish the comparison chart alongwith

the report. The comparison chart Ex.PW2/6

which he furnished in the court was prepared

by him subsequently under the directions of the

court, as such, it clearly shows that he did not

prepare any comparison chart of Ex.PW2/1 the

finger prints obtained from the dead body of

the deceased and specimen left index

fingerprint of Nitish Katara obtained from the

licencing authority. In these circumstances even if as per the 705 comparison chart Ex.PW2/5 there are about 8 similarities

in the finger print impressions Ex.PW2/C1 and the finger

print impression Ex.PW2/2, no reliance can be placed

thereon for the reason the prosecution has neither proved

on record that the finger prints Ex.PW2/C1 were also

taken by Chetram from the deadbody of the deceased,

nor it is proved on record that the finger print impression

was obtained by him from the record of driving license

of deceased Nitish Katara. In these circumstances, I am

not inclined to rely upon the report Ex.PW2/6 of the

finger print expert in this regard. with the work of Alec Jeffrey, a genticist at the

 University of Leicester in Britain's Midland in

 1984, Jaffrey invented the techniques that took 706 human identification from the laboratory to the

 court room. With his co­workers, he

 demonstrated that forensic samples, dried stains

 several years old, contained sufficient DNA to

 yield conclusive results. Jaffrey proved that even

 small fragments of DNA molecules were

 virtually unique to individuals. He called the

 process he invented ''DNA Finger Printing''. The

 finger prints ''produced by the tests bears a

 superficial resemblance to a super market bar

 code. With the difference between individuals

 revealed by the spacing between the 15 or 20

 lines called band. Such differences between

 specimens are measured by a process called

 Restriction fragment length Polymorphism

 (RFLP) Analysis. ii) Jaffrey applied it to an immigration

 case. A boy from Ghana sought to immigrate to 707 Britain claiming that his mother was already a

 resident. Conventional blood tests were not

 conclusive beyond confirming that the two

 could be related. DNA analysis put beyond

 reasonable doubt that relationship was as

 claimed and the Home Office put stamp of its

 approval on the new technology. The

 technology was, thus extended to from site of

 crime to court of law. iii) The application of the technology

 is new to India. In the matter of introduction of

 new scientific evidence the basic principle is

 that one who seeks to introduce such scientific

 evidence at the judicial trial must establish a

 proper foundation. The failure to lay it properly

 may affect the weight of evidence or may go to

 the very issue of its admissibility . Therefore,

 the State in the matter of DNA identification 708 evidence, must satisfy that the physical evidence

 upon which test was conducted has been

 obtained in accordance with law and reached

 laboratory. Due procedure / protocol was

 applied & that accused got due opportunity of

 fairness hearing in the matter of analysis and

 during trial. WHAT IS DNA TECHNOLOGY: There are two types of cells :Prokaryotic and

 Eukaryotic. Prokaryotic cells are surrounded by

 single membrane and there is no nucleus in

 them. The genetic material is surrounded by the

 same single cell wall. An Eukaryotic cell is

 essentially a double membrane system. Primary 709 membrane surrounds the cell and is generally

called as cellular wall. Secondary membrane

surrounds the nucleus and is generally called as

nuclear wall. In between the two lies cytoplasm

which consists of a semi­fluid, jelly like,

homogenous, translucent ground substance

called cytoplasmic matrix. In the nucleus also

there is semi­fluid, homogenous, translucent

ground substance which is known as

nucleoplasm. In the nucleus is located the

cellular DNA in the form of coiled rods known

as chromosomes. There are 23 pairs of these

chromosomes in every cell. Out of these 23

pairs 22 pairs are called autosomes and 23rd pair

is called sex chromosome. The chromosome is a

single double stranded DNA molecule with

protein coating. A metaphase chromosome

consists of two identical filaments known as 710 chromatids formed earlier during interphase

(non­division stage) by replication of a single

filament. The two chromatids lie side by side

along their length and are joined together at

one point, which point is known as centromere.

The region which contains centromere is

narrow. The centromere appears as a

constriction in the chromosome and this is

known as primary constriction. Chromosomes

may have additional constrictions. These are

called secondary constrictions. Part of

chromosome separated by secondary constriction

is known as satellite. A chromosome with a

satellite is known as sat­chromosome. The ends

of the chromosomes are called telomeres. The

parts of the chromatids on both sides of the

centromere are known as arms. The arms may

be equal or unequal depending upon the 711 position of the cetromere. A chromatid is

composed of a very fine filament, the

chromonema. The very fine filament is a single

double stranded DNA molecule with protein

coat. It is very long and greatly coiled in 3

orders. The coiling is highly specific so that a

particular segment of the chromonema always

occupies the same position within the

chromatid. The eukaryotic chromosomes are

composed of DNA, proteins, RNA, metal ions

and enzymes. There is a single double stranded

DNA molecule in a chromosome. The DNA

contains the biological and genetic information.

Its amount in all somatic cells of an organism

is the same, the gametes have half of this

amount. The chromosomal proteins have

nothing to do with the genetic potency of the

chromosomes. They may be replaced with other 712 proteins without in any manner altering the

functions of the gene. The chromosomal

proteins regulate gene action. They are of two

types: Simple basic histones and acid or neutral

non­histones. The histone proteins are low­

molecular weight proteins rich in the basic

amino acids lysine and arginine. The DNA and

histones are loosely bound together in 1:1 ratio

to form deoxyribonucleoproteins (DNP). This

linkage maintains the helical form of the DNA

molecule without disturbing its structure. The

histones prevent RNA transcription. The non­

histone proteins are high molecular weight

proteins having amino acids tyrosine and

trytophan. They are believed to activate the

genes to start RNA transcription. The RNA is

transcribed by DNA where a strand of DNA

serves as a template for RNA. Most of it passes 713 into the cytoplasm and some remains associated

with molecules made up of four different

monomeric units called nucleotides. DNA

molecule is a double chain of

deoxyribonucleotide units. Each nucleotide

consists of three distinct parts : (1) a pantose (5

carbon) Sugar, (2) Nitrogenous base and (3) a

phosphate group. The nitrogenous bases fall

into two classes, the purines and pyrimidines. In

DNA the purines are Adenine (A), Guanine (G)

and the pyrimidines are Thymine (T) and

Cytosine (C ). The RNA molecule also contains

Adenine, Guanine and Cytosine, but Thymine is

replaced by Uracil (U).Adenine(A) will always

pair with Thymine (T) with double Hydrogen

Bond and Guanine will always pair with

Cytocine ( C) with triple Hydrogen bonds. In

each chain the phosphate component carried by 714 the Carbon atoms at position 5 of one

 nucleotide unit is joined by phosphodiester

 bond to the hydroxyl component of the Carbon

 atom at position 3 of the sugar in the next

 nucleotide unit. These 3'', 5'' phosphodiester

 bonds provide a considerable stiffness to the

 polynucleotide. These bonds form a long

 molecular thread of alternating sugar and

 phosphate components on the outside of the

 DNA helix. The fundamental unit of DNA thus

 consists of two intertwined polynucleotide

 chains and resembles as twisted ladder referred

 to as, double helix. ii) One of the functions of DNA is the

 transmission of heritable traits from parents of

 offspring. On a macro level long strands of

 DNA are organised into bodies called

 chromosomes, of which human beings have 715 twenty three pairs. One half of each pair in an

 individual is donated by one's father and the

 other by the mother. Thus, each individual has

 a duplicate copy of genes. iii) A gene is a functional length of

 unit of DNA that is responsible for the

 production of a particular trait. It is genes that

 define an individual is biologically distinct from

 each other, but sharing many other common

 traits that define all as human beings. A

 common example is an eye colour. All human

 beings possess the genetic informtaion that,

 when encoded and translated, led to

 development of the eyes as organs. However,

 each individual's eyes are different. For example,

 eye colour commonly varies among individuals.

 Variations in eye colour, when taken along with

 numerous other traits define our differences and 716 distinguish us as individuals. iv) It is in the micro level that

 the structure of DNA manifests its

 individualized specificity. It is the variation in

 the ordered structure of the bases alongwith

 strand that determines what gene is encoded

 and what from the that gene is encoded. These

 sequences are the codes for the proteins which

 comprise the human body. v) Most of the DNA sequences among

 individuals are very similar. Infact 99 to 99.9%

 of DNA is identical from one person to the

 next. The human body is practically defined by

 each individual having two arms, two legs, two

 eyes and other common characteristics. It is the

 polymorphic nature of certain genes that

 distinguish. These polymorphisms are different

 versions of genes called alleles. 717 THE TECHNOLOGY USED FOR DNA TESTING i) There are two tests used in DNA profiling.

They are commonly referred to as ''FLP'' and PCR

based tests''. (a) RFLP analysis (DNA Profiling): The most

widely used method at present is called DNA

fingerprinting or DNA profiling. It employs a

technique known as Restriction Fragment Length

Polymorphism (RFLP), also known as conventional

VNTR. ai) Restriction Fragment Length

Polymorphism (RFLP) compares the sizes (Total

fragment length) of a polymorphism ­ that part

of the DNA molecule, which is suggested to differ

from person to person. aii) In RFLP analysis, RF stands for

Restriction Fragments. Those are the fragments of

DNA that are cut by restriction enzymes. L stands 718 for Length, and refers to the length of the

Restriction Fragments. P stands for the

Polymorphism, a Greek term that literally means

''Many shapes''. the length of some of the

restriction fragments differ greatly between

individuals, thus there are many shapes, or

lengths, of DNA possible. aiii) Molecular biologists have identified

regions of the human genome where restriction

fragment lengths are highly variable between

individuals. These regions are called RFLP

markers. aiv) The steps in RFLP analysis

alongwith a brief explanation of each step are

shown below. STEPS IN RFLP ANALYSIS. 1. DNA EXTRACTION:­

 DNA can be extracted from almost any 719 human tissue, such as blood, semen, skin, saliva,

urine etc. The DNA thus extracted from evidence

sample is compared with DNA extracted from

individuals in question. 2. DIGESTION OF DNA

 The extracted DNA is treated with

restriction enzymes that cut the DNA at the

specific sequence, resulting in many smaller DNA

fragments. 3. GEL ELECTROPHORESIS:­

 The electrophoresis gel separates the

fragments by size. The larger piece of DNA will

move toward the bottom of the gel much more

slower than the smaller pieces, forming a banding

pattern in the gel. The molecular weight marker /

allelic control besides other controls like positive

control, negative control and victim control are

necessary to be run in the gel alongwith the 720 evidence samples. 4. THE ''SOUTHERN BLOT''

 After electrophoresis, the single strands of

DNA are transferred to the surface of a nylon

membrane by blotting, just as the blotting of wet

ink on a dry paper transfers a replica of the

image to the paper, the blotting of DNA

fragments that existed after electrophoresis. 5. MULTI­LOCUS PROBES/SINGLE LOCUS

PROBE:­

 A radioactively labeled probes / probe or

piece of DNA with a complementary sequence

issued on the Southern Blot DNA. The probe will

find that sequence in the DNA and bind to it. 6. AUTORADIOGRAPHY:­

 The nylon membrane is placed next to a

sheet of x­ray film in a light tight container. The

x­ray film records the locations of radioactive 721 probes. The developed x­ray film is termed

''Autoradiographs'' and also called as ''autorads''.

VNTR VARIABLE NUMBER TANDEM REPEAT

 The locus on a given chromosome where

any particular gene occurs is called its locus. The

different forms taken by a gene is called allele.

The locus may be a gene, a particular sequence

of bases that is decoded into an observable trait

in which case different alleles may give rise to

variants of that trait. Some of loci, which exhibit

a special class of RFLP, a class with extremely

high level allelic variation are called

hypervariable. Hypervariable loci contain VNTRs.

RFLP is also known as VNTR, which arises from

variations in the number of tandemly repeated

DNA sequences present between two restriction

enzyme sites. These sequences are between two 722 restriction enzyme sites. These sequences are

derived from minisatelites, which are clusters of

sequences from 2 to 100 nucleotides in length. For

example, the base sequence 

 GGAAGGGAAGGGAAGGGAAG

 Consists of four tandem repeats of the 5 

nucleotide sequence GGAAG. This sequence

consisting of 5 NUCLEOTIDES is called CORE­

SEQUENCE. Clusters of such sequences are widely

dispersed in the human genome. Typically, each

repeat contains a number of nucleotides and

number of repeats at each locus is variable. These

loci are known as variable number tandem

repeats regions. VNTR regions usually range from

500 to 10,000 nucleotide pairs. A core sequence of

15­35 base pairs is repeated many times

consecutively along the chromosome. The number

of repeats at a given locus is variable and each 723 variation is a VNTR allele. Many loci have dozens

of alleles each, as a result hetrozygosity is

common. If the same allele is present in both

chromosomes of a pair the person is homozygous.

If two alleles are different the person is

hetrozygous. Different alleles consist of different

number of repeats, VNTR alleles are known by

the number of repeats at a given locus in a

relevant population. If DNA fragments of different

lengths are placed on a semisolid medium (gel) in

an electric field (Gel electrophoresis) they migrate

at different rates. Different sized fragments can

therefore be identified by the distance they travel

between electrodes in such a gel. less widely used than DNA profiling employs a 724 technique known as Polymerase Chain Reaction

(PCR). bii) The polymerase chain reaction

(PCR) allows specific, multimillion­fold replication

(or 'amplification') of virtually any small segment

of DNA. For amplifying any specific locus, specific

primer is used. For amplifying different loci

different primers are used which have been

internationally approved by the scientific

community. biiii) PCR involves the multiple

repetition of three basic steps viz. denaturation,

annealing and synthesis called one cycle, two of

which can be combined and all of which consist

simply of placing a reaction mixture containing

the DNA to be amplified at different, defined

temperatures. The entire procedure usually takes

between one and four hours depending upon the 725 number of cycles used for amplification and can

be fully automated. In addition to the sample

DNA, the reaction mixture contains short

segments of DNA, usually about 20 bases long,

called 'oligonucleotides'. This is the primer which

is specific to amplify a particular locus called the

target locus, which is intended to be amplified.

The base sequences of these are such that they

complement sequences on either strand of the

double helix that flank the DNA region to be

amplified, also included in the reaction mixture

are free nucleotides comprising of

monophosphates of the nitrogen bases viz

Adenine (A), Thymine(T), Guanine (G) and

Cytosine that are used to build new DNA

sequences and an enzyme, DNA polymerase that

acts as catalyst and drives the reaction. 

biv) The first step in the reaction 726 involves heating the DNA, usually to 94o C , to

cause the two strands of the DNA double helix

(like twisted ladder) to separate. This process is

known as denaturation. Following this

denaturation step, the reaction mixture is cooled

to a temperature usually between about 55o C and

72o C. In this, the second step, the oligonucleotides

hybridize ie bind to the sequences they

complement. This process is known as annealing.

Once they have annealed, they act as primers for

the synthesis of new DNA strands. Since the

oligonucleotide primers have been chosen to flank

a specific target sequence, the target sequence

itself is copied as the new strands are formed

across the region being amplified. This third,

extension step usually is carried out at 72o C. This

process is known as synthesis whereby the new

complementary strand is formed. All these three 727 steps taken together constitute the process known

as AMPLIFICATION OF DNA. bv) Thus, during a single round of PCR

cycle new DNA strands are formed in the target

region with the previously existing strands acting

as templates. The result is two double stranded

copies of the target region will be made for every

copy that existed at the start of the reaction. 

bvi) The three­step process is repeated

multiple times, with a doubling of the number of

copies of the target DNA segment at each

repetition. The result is an exponential increase in

copy number of the target. The reaction is usually

continued for approximately 30 cycles after which

there is a multi million­fold increase n the

number of copies of the target DNA sequence.

This amplified DNA is PCR product. The PCR

process is limited to the amplification of a small 728 DNA region. This region is usually not more than

1000 nucleotides in length, so PCR methods

cannot, atleast at present, be used for large DNA

regions such as most VNTRs. bvii) Once PCR has been used to

generate a large number of copies of DNA

segment of interest, a number of approaches may

be taken to detect genetic variation within the

segment. In general, the approaches fall into two

categories, those directed at detecting sequence

variation and those directed at detecting variation. bviii) PCR based systems for the

detection of genetic variation:­ 

a. Sequence based detection systems:­

(1)Sequence specific probes HLA DQ Alpha.

(2)Allele specific amplification.

(3) Oligonucleotide ligation assay.

(4) Restriction site specific cleavage. 729 (5) Denaturing gradient electrophoresis.

(6) Sequence analysis. b. Length variation. 1) Simple insertions /deletions 2) VNTR polymorphism also called AMP­FLP. (c) HLA DQ­ALPHA TYPING : ci) HLA gene has three classes /

regions, located on chromosome 6. HLA Class ­I,

HLA Class­II and Class­III. In this case HLA­DQ

Alpha has been used. cii) HLA­DQ Alpha belongs to HLA Class­II.

HLA Class II has three genes HLA­DR, HLA­DQ

Alpha and HLA­DP located as different loci (sites)

on chromosome 6. ciii) HLA­DQ Alpha has 16 alleles.

HLA­DQ Alpha is a single locus. Out of 16 alleles 730 of HLA­DQ Alpha only (6) six common alleles (DQ

Alpha alleles 1.1, 1.2,1.3, 2, 3 & 4) are till date type­

able and used for forensic purposes. As a matter

of fact there are four major types of DQ Alpha

alleles viz 1, 2, 3 and 4. Allele No.1 has three sub­

types viz 1.1,1.2 and 1.3. In HLA DQ Alpha typing,

allele No. 1 as 1 is not included / mentioned in

genotype and in its place either of its three sub­

types is included / mentioned in the genotype.

civ) As per Mendalian Segregation Law /

Genetic principle there cannot be more than two

alleles at one locus, in an individual one derived

from father and other from mother because each

person has two versions of the gene. 

cv) A GENOTYPE is a combination of two

alleles at one locus, may be with the sub­types of

allele. For DQ Alpha there are (21) possible

genotypes namely: cvii) The technique developed for typing

amplified DNA,most commonly used in forensic 732 science, examines the HLA­DQ Alpha gene

through Reverse Dot Blot Method also known as

Reverse Dot Hybridization Method. The amplified

DNA is incubated with typing strips containing

immobilized DNA probes specific to different DQ

Alpha alleles. cviii) Following hybridization, a colour

development procedure is used to detect the

presence of DQ Alpha alleles in the sample. The

DQ Alpha type of a sample is determined by

reading the pattern of blue dots. AMP FLP 
 
 

(loosely called PCR­VNTR). cix) Once the amount of DNA is

amplified by the PCR method the analysis

proceeds in essentially the same way as with

VNTRs (RFLP­Typing) for the identification of

fragments of different size by their migration in

an electric field. cx) It will be relevant to detail the

procedure as noted in Encyclopedia of Molecular

Biology and Molecular Medicine edited by Robert

A Meylrs Vol.II in a diagram from Differential

Extractions as in tis case from vaginal

swab/smear. cxi) Having noted the principles which

are required to be furnished / established in the

DNA evidence and also what is DNA and the

technology thereof, it is to be considered is DNA

or evidence adduced in the case relevant and

admissible. i) The relevant witnesses examined by

 the prosecution with regard to the DNA test

 are PW 8 Dr TD Dogra, PW 10 Dr. Sanjeev

 Lalwani, PW 17 SI RC Makholia, PW 30 Mrs.

 Neelam Katara, PW 35 SI Anil Somania and 734 PW 37 Dr.AK Sharma. ii) The defence counsel has submitted that

 the prosecution has produced Dr AK

 Sharma PW 37 as a DNA Specialist who gave

 his report Ex.C1 to establish that the samples

 sent to him purportedly from the deadbody

 with the blood samples of the complainant

 Mrs. Neelam Katara and her husband as far

 as their DNA profile is concerned. It is

 submitted that a direction was passed by

 Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in Criminal

 Revision No. 352/2003 copy of which has

 already been placed on record. As per the said

 direction the accused has to be given the

 genotype gel which is the original raw data

 from which the expert submits the genotype

 printout. Despite the said direction the DNA

 expert did not produce the same in the Court. 735 During the cross examination the order passed

by the Hon'ble High Court on 4th Dec. 2003

was produced before the Court and the

Hon'ble Court further directed the witness to

produce the genotype printout, CD of the geno

and genotype software. The witness submitted

that he has only the genotype print out and

not the CD of the geno nor the genotype

software. The report submitted by the witness

without producing the raw data as directed by

the Hon'ble High Court and reiterated by this

Hon'ble Court by its order dated 18.05.2004

was not complied with therefore the defence

did not have the opportunity to check the

authenticity of the genotype printout and

therefore the said report is not admissible in

evidence. That even the perusal of the said

report most specifically the diagrams pertaining 736 to the peaks which show the allele numbers

 most specifically with reference to marker No.

 TH­01 to entires have been made with hand

 namely entry No 8 and 9.3 and also the entry

 at serial No. 3 of page 5 where after the

 print l another addition has been made as l in

 the hand. Both these interpolation have been

 conceded to by the witness. Even suggestions

 were made to the said witnesses that he had

 not produced the raw date so as to prepare a

 fabricated report. The prosecution has not

 assailed these points. iii) The defence counsel has further argued

 that initially Dr AK Sharma avoided coming

 to the Court for deposition ands sent

 communication to the Court since he is an

 expert witness his report is admissible U/s 293

 Cr PC, therefore his personal appearance be 737 dispensed with and his request was acceded to

by the Court and report was exhibited as Ex.

C1. But thereafter the witness was called by

the Court on the request of the defence counsel

since he was to be cross examined. I is

submitted that even the attitude of the Court

was not just towards the accused persons when

they were directed to submit in writing the

questions which they were to put to this

witness before he was summoned and it is only

when with the directions of the Hon'ble High

Court of Delhi vide order dtd. 4th Dec 2003

the impugned order was set aside with

directions to the trial court to give full

opportunity to the defence to cross examine the

witness without being insisted upon to submit

in writing pointing out from the report as to

on what point the cross examination was to 738 be done. The defence counsel has further

 submitted that in terms of the order of the

 Hon'ble High Court the accused persons were

 not supplied with the copy of genotype which

 ought have been filed by the witness alongwith

 its report. It is submitted that only genotype

 printout was filed on record but not the

 genotype gel from which the genotype print

 was prepared. It is further argued that the best

 sample i e the bone taken out from the

 deadbody of the deceased was not chosen by

 the witness to conduct DNA. The defence

 counsel has further argued that the deadbody

 was not kept/ preserved in hygenic condition,

 as such the degrading of the samples cannot

 be ruled out and the benefit of the same

 must be given to the accused persons. iv) Advocate Sh SK Sharma. counsel for 739 accused Vishal Yadav is that there is no

provision of law for transfer of the deadbody to

Delhi for taking samples for DNA as the

samples could be taken anywhere else in UP

and after all the tests had been conducted if

the deadbody was found to be of Nitish Katara,

thereafter it should have been handed over to

the police of PS Kavi Nagar. It is further

submitted that even the inquest papers were

not deposited with the AIIMS hospital

alongwith the deadbody of the deceased. The

defence counsel has further argued that the

deadbody was transferred to Delhi due to the

influence of the complainant over the

investigation. However, in my opinion that

these allegations are unfounded as it is only

with the order of the CJM Ex PW 8/C the

deadbody was transferred to Delhi and it is 740 presumed the CJM must have passed the order

after satisfying himself that there was no

provision to preserve the deadbody in

Bulandshahar mortuary for DNA. At the same

time it is important to note that SI Anil

Somania was not suggested that he acted under

the influence of complainant nor there was any

suggestion to Dr TD Dogra and Dr Sanjeev

Lalwani about any such pressure from the

complainant. Even complainant Neelam

Katara was not suggested so. It is observed in

the order of CJM Bulandshahar Ex. PW 8/C

that there is no provision of preservation of the

deadbody in Bulandshahar mortuary for DNA

printing and it was allowed to be send to

AIIMS at Delhi. The defence counsel failed to

produce any such evidence on record that there

was any such provision available to preserve 741 the deadbody for DNA printing in UP nor it

was suggested to any of the witnesses. DNA is

nodoubt an important aspect of the

investigation, particularly, when the deadbody

recovered was unidentified. To find out whether

the deadbody was of Nitish Katara it was

necessary to conduct DNA finger printing on

the deadbody and for want of provisions/

facilities for preserving the deadbody for DNA

printing it was transferred to Delhi and in my

opinion there was no malafide either of the

investigating officer who sought the transfer of

the deadbody to AIIMS at Delhi nor of the

CJM concerned who allowed this application If

here is no provision in the Cr PC as argued by

the defence counsel that the investigation could

be carried out outside the State where the

alleged crime took place, similarly there is no 742 provision in the Cr. PC barring the

 investigation to be carried out outside the

 concerned State. If it is so then it can also be

 questioned as to why the samples were sent to

 CFSL Calcutta for DNA and not in the UP itself. v) Regarding the argument of the defence

 counsel that SI Anil Somania admitted in his

 cross examination that the inquest papers were

 not submitted alongwith the deadbody to

 AIIMS hospital, an explanation had already

 been given by SI Anil Somania during his

 cross examination that Khurja police did not

 hand over the papers concerning this case to

 him. He got order from CJM Bulandshahar

 and got the deadbody transfer to mortuary

 AIIMS hospital till that time Khurja police did

 not give him the inquest papers. He further

 clarified that the MS AIIMS hospital did not 743 ask him to produce the inquest papers. He

testified that the inquest papers were received

by him through proper channel i e through DIG

Meerut Range and he had received the same

on 23.3.2002. The IO SI Anil Somania had

adequately explained the reason as to why he

did not submit the inquest papers alongwith the

deadbody to AIIMS hospital. It is important to

note that the deadbody was seized by Inspt CP

Singh of PS Khurja Nagar and the inquest

papers were also prepared by him and not by

SI Anil Somania so as to say that these

documents were available with him and he

intentionally did not submit alongwith the

deadbody. Moreover, if the inquest papers were

required by the hospital authority for obtaining

the samples for DNA from the deadbody the

MS could have given the direction to the IO to 744 submit the same at the earliest as the samples

 from the deadbody were collected on 22.2.02

 whereas the deadbody, as per the testimony of

 PW 35 SI Anil Somania, was deposited with

 AIIMS hospital on 21.2.02. Moreover, the

 deadbody was sent to AIIMS in compliance of

 the order of the CJM Bulandshahar Ex. PW

 8/C for conducting DNA finger printing and for

 not conducting postmortem to find out the

 cause of death, for which the inquest papers

 were necessary to be submitted alongwith the

 deadbody. The postmortem had already been

 conducted on the deadbody at Bulandshahar

 mortuary on 18.2.02 and now only the identity

 of the deadbody was to be established vide

 DNA test. vi) On the other hand the Spl PP for State

 has argued that for DNA test the samples 745 were taken by PW 8 Dr TD Gogra which

were kept in separate bottles and labels. One of

the samples ie entire femur, bone weighing

approximately 900 gms wrapped in a

polythene. All the tissues were kept in freezer

for storage. The bone was kept in refrigerator.

That all the material was sealed with the seal

of department and sample seal was prepared

separately. The blood samples of the

complainant Mrs. Neelam Katara and her

husband Sh. NM Katara observing the proper

procedure. The entire procedure was carried out

by Dr Sanjeev Lalwani, Sr Resident , Dr D.N.

Bharadwaz and Dr. Abhijeet Rudhra under his

supervision. It is stated that the samples

collected from the deadbody and blood sample

of Neelam Katara and Sh.NM Katara were

handed over to SI RC Makholia on 25.2.02. and 746 on the same day the same were deposited in

 CFSL Calcutta which seals intact. It is further

 submitted that PW 37 Dr AK Sharma has

 given detailed statement about the different test

 conducted by him as per international

 standards and he found similarity in the

 samples from the deadbody and the blood

 samples of the parents of Nitish Katara and

 gave report to the effect that the tissue

 samples examined by him belonged to the

 biological son of Mrs Neelam Katara and Sh

 NM Katara. It is further submitted that though

 the defence has thoroughly cross examined the

 witness but nothing material could come out

 which could discredit the testimony of this

 witness. vii) The relevant witnesses relating to

 DNA finger printing as referred above PW 30 747 Mrs Neelam Katara, PW 8 Dr. TD Dogra,

 AIIMS Hospital, New Delhi, PW10 Dr Sanjeev

 Lalwani, Sr. Resident AIIMS Hospital, New Delhi,

 PW 17 SI RC Makholia, PW 35 SI Anil

 Somania and PW 37 Dr AK Sharma. viii) PW 35 SI Anil Somania testified

 that on 22.2.2002 he reached AIIMS hospital at

 9:00 am. As per his directions Neelam Katara,

 Nitin Katara and Nishit Katara had also

 reached the hospital. Blood samples of Neelam

 Katara and Nishit Katara were taken in the

 hospital in his presence and he signed the

 blood sample card Ex. PW 10/1 of Neelam

 Katara at point B and blood sample card Ex

 PW 10/2 of Nishit Katara at point D. He

 further stated that samples of blood taken at

 AIIMS and were sealed in his presence. ix) The aforesaid testimony of SI Anil 748 Somania has not been disputed or rebutted in

 any manner during the lengthy cross

 examination by the defence counsel. x) PW 30 Mrs Neelam Katara also

 testified that on the lines of PW 35 SI Anil

 Somania that on 22.2.02 she and her husband

 went to AIIMS hospital for giving blood

 samples for DNA test. She proved her blood

 sample card Ex PW 10/1 bearing her

 photograph and her thumb impression and Ex.

 PW 10/2 the card of her husband bearing his

 photograph and his thumb impression She was

 not subjected to any cross examination in this

 regard. Hence, it is deemed to be admitted on

 the part of the defence that the blood samples

 of both Neelam Katara and her husband Nishit

 Katara were collected at AIIMS hospital for

 DNA test on the unidentified deadbody. 749 xi) The blood samples of both Smt Neelam

 Katara and Nishit Katara as well as the sample

 tissues from the unidentified deadbody were

 collected under the supervision of Dr TD Dogra

 PW 8. He testified that on 22.2.02 he was

 working in AIIMS hospital. On that day he

 received a letter dtd. 22.2.02 EX.PW 8/A from

 Sh AK Raghav SP City Ghaziabad addressed to

 Director, AIIMS. This letter was marked to

 HOD Forensic Medicines by the director vide

 endorsement EX PW 8/B .The letter was also

 accompanying the order of CJM Bulandshahar

 UP regarding DNA test. He further testified

 that in pursuance of this order the samples

 were collected for DNA test under his

 supervision since he was the HOD for Forensic

 Medicines. He testified that blood samples

 from Sh NM Katara was collected by PW 10 750 Dr. Sanjeev Lalwani vide file No.

CL.FOR.MED.No. 12/2002. Blood sample was

soaked on gauze piece kept on blotting paper

and was dried under natural condition. The

forms required for DNA test at CFSL Calcutta

was duly filled. The samples were wrapped in

blotting paper kept in air tight polythene bag.

The polythene bag containing sample was kept

in an envelope which was sealed with the

seal of Deptt of Forensic Medicines and

labelled as above. The blood sample from Smt

Neelam Katara was collected by PW 10 Dr.

Sanjeev Lalwani vide CL.FOR.MED.No. 13/2002.

Blood sample was soaked in gauze piece kept

on blotting paper and was dried under natural

condition. The form filled up for DNA test

of CFSL Calcutta the sample was wrapped in

blotting paper kept in air tight polythene bag. 751 The polythene bag containing sample was kept

 in an envelope which was sealed with the seal

 of Deptt of Forensic Medicines and labelled

 with the number. xii) He further testified that the

 unknown deadbody suspected of Nitish Katara

 son of Sh NM Katara was taken out of

 mortuary New Delhi AIIMS for collection for

 sample for DNA test vide CL.FOR.MED.No.

 14/2002 following samples were collected from

 the deadbody.:­

a. Entire right femur bone ( Weight Aprox.

900 gms). b. Piece of Right Calf muscle (Weight ­80gms

Approx.)

c. Piece of Right Lung ( Weight ­20gms

Approx.)

d. Pieces of kidney of both sides (Weight ­15 752 gms each Approx.)

e. Piece of Heart muscle (Weight ­20gms

Approx.)

f. Piece of liver tissue (Weight ­ 25gms Approx.)

g. Pieces of spleen (Weight ­ 25gms Approx.)

and a blood sample of gauze piece from right

side of the heart. He further explained how the

sample tissues were preserved. He testified that

all the tissues were kept in a separate bottles and

were labelled. The bone was wrapped in

polythene. All the tissues were kept in freezer for

storage. The bone was kept in refrigerator. All

the material was sealed with the seal of

department. The sample of the seal was

prepared separately. xiii)He further testified that the entire procedure

 was carried by PW 10 Dr Sanjeev Lalwani , Sr

 Resident, DR D.N. Bharadwaz and Dr 753 Abhijeet Rudhra under his supervision. He

 proved the proceedings recorded at the time of

 taking samples as Ex. PW 8/F bearing the

 signature of PW 10 Dr Sanjeev Lalwani , Sr

 Resident, DR D.N. Bharadwaz and Dr

 Abhijeet Rudhra and his signatures at point A,

 B, C and D respectively. He identified the

 signatures of these three doctors while stating

 that he had seen them signing and writing

 since they had worked with him. xiv) The witness further testified that the

 samples were handed over to PW 17 SI RC

 Makholia of PS Ghaziabad on 25.2.02 vide

 receipt Ex. PW 8/D. Thereafter he received

 receipt Ex. PW 8/E from the Director Forensic

 Science Lab. Calcutta regarding receiving the

 samples and the forwarding letter. xv) During cross examination the 754 witness categorically stated that identity of

 Smt Neelam Katara and Sh NM Katara was

 established before him by SO Anil Somania of

 PS Kavi Nagar. No suggestion to the contrary

 was given to the witness that the blood samples

 collected for comparison with the samples from

 the deadbody were not from Sm Neelam

 Katara or Sh Nishit Katara or sample tissues

 were not collected from unidentified dead body

 recovered from Shikarpur Road. xvi) The witness was put a specific

 question as follows: He further admitted in answer to the court

 question that outside contamination does not

 effect the DNA test as long as DNA can be

 retrieved from tissues or bones. xix) Perusal of the statement of this witness

 shows that no suggestion was given to the

 witness that proper procedure was not

 followed while taking the samples from the

 deadbody or the blood samples of Neelam

 Katara and NM Katara or they were not

 properly sealed or labelled or were not handed

 over to SI RC Makholia in sealed conditions for

 deposit with CFSL Calcutta. xx) PW 10 Dr Sanjeev Lalwani had

 collected the blood samples of both Neelam

 Katara and Nishit Katara and DNA samples

 from the deadbody of an unknown person

 alongwith Dr DN Bharadwaz and Sh Abhijeet 757 Rudhra in the presence of PW 8 Dr TD

 Dogra. He deposed on the lines of PW 8 Dr

 TD Dogra. The witness was not cross examined

 on behalf of accused Vikas Yadav whereas no

 material question was put to the witness to

 discredit his testimony during the cross

 examination on behalf of accused Vishal Yadav.

xxi) As per the prosecution PW 17 SI

 RC Makholia of UP police had collected the

 samples for DNA from AIIMS hospital and

 deposited the same with CFSL Calcutta. PW

 17 SI RC Makholia deposed that on 23.2.02 he

 was given directions by SP city Ghaziabad to

 collect samples for DNA in respect of Case No.

 192/02 of PS Kavi Nagar Ghaziabad from

 AIIMS hospital. He visited AIIMS hospital on

 that day and contacted forensic department

 but was not given the samples. He again 758 went there on 25.2.02 and on that day he

 collected the samples as detailed in Ex.PW

 8/D ie the receipt which were to be taken

 by him to Calcutta. xxii) He testified that in

 acknowledgment of his receiving the samples,

 he appended his signatures with endorsement

 at point A on Ex. PW 8/D . He further testified

 that all the packets received by him were duly

 sealed and seals were intact. Sample seal

 was also given to him. After taking the samples,

 on the same day he left for Calcutta by air

 and reached CFSL Calcutta on the same day

 and deposited the samples there. He stated

 that so long the sealed packets remained in his

 custody the seal remained intact and he

 deposited the samples with intact seal. 

xxiii) He further testified that he 759 again went to Calcutta on 6.3.02 to bring back

the remnants of the samples after testing and

the report. He reached Calcutta either on 8 or

9 March and from there brought back the

remnants of the samples deposited with CFSL.

During his examination one sealed packet with

the seal of CFSL was opened, the container

and its contents were collectively exhibited as

Ex. P2. He further testified that he had also

brought the report Ex.C 1 in sealed cover and

produced before the CJM Bulandshahar

alongwith forwarding letter Ex PW 17/1 which

was endorsed by the CJM at point A. Thereafter

the said letter was handed over to him and he

gave the same to the IO. No fruitful

examination of this witness was conducted. The

testimony of this witness was not rebutted in

any manner that either he did not collect the 760 samples in sealed condition or he did not

 deposit them in the CFSL Calcutta in the

 sealed condition. test on the samples collected from the

 unidentified deadbody and Smt Neelam Katara

 and Nishit Katara. xxv) PW37 testified that he is M.Sc and

 Ph.D in forensic science and joined CFSL

 Calcutta as Senior Scientific officer in l994.

 Further that he has been reporting DNA cases

 since Jan 2001 after extensive training in

 DNA profiling. He stated that presently he was

 working as Asstt. Director Incharge DNA unit,

 Biology division, CFSL Calcutta. His further

 testimony is reproduced as follows: ­

 " On 25.2.02 I received one sealed 761 thermocol box, three sealed paper packets and one

sealed cloth packet in my office relating to this case.

The description of exhibits is as detailed in my report

Ex.C1 . I carried out the requisite tests and came to

the conclusion that the body ( source of Ex.C: blood

stained III, Ex. F: Tissue sample II and Ex. J: Ans: Organism is made of different cells. Usually
the Genome is used for a cell of a DNA and therefore the
answer to question is yes. Ques: What is meant by Marker referred in
your report? Ans: Marker refers to DNA markers used for the
identification purposes. It is correct to suggest that
marker is a region of the DNA i e used for identification
of the DNA. Ques: What is the difference between a Marker and
Loci? Ans: Some of the Markers are identified at the
position at which they are present and that position is
called the Locus. called Alleles of that Marker. It is correct to suggest
that the variants of a particular locus are called
Allele. polymorphism was done in this case. 
Ans: No
Ques: How many base pairs are there in the human
genome? of similarity of the human genome?
A: 0.1%
Ques: What is meant by nucleo dides?
Ans: Nucleo dides are 4 nitrogenous bases namely
Adenine thymine, guanine and cytosine.
Ques: Is it a myth that DNA report is infallible?
Ans: A good DNA report using proper control and
standards with the intentionally accepted technology
should be infallible. Ques; Can there be errors arising in the sample
itself? Ans: If the samples are improper, error may come.
Ques: Is it correct that there cane be accidental
error in samples? Ans: If proper standard and control are not used error
may occur. xxvii)Perusal of all these questions put to the

 witness shows that basically these questions

 were put to the witness to gain knowledge as

 to what is DNA test. These questions in my

 opinion did not discredit his testimony in any 765 manner. xxviii) The witness during cross

 examination categorically stated that he

 obtained the samples on 28.2.02 and completed

 the test on 06.03.02 and the cell was scanned

 with the laser. He produced genotype reports.

 The witness further testified in cross

 examination that serial No.l shows the Allele

 number of Sh N M Katara and serial No. 2 on

 the left side pertains to the Allele number of

 Smt Neelam Katara. Serial Nos. 3,4 & 5 on

 the left side pertains to the Allele number of

 the samples said to be of the deadbody. He

 explained that some serial numbers have been

 maintained for all the Makers. He admitted it

 to be correct that allele number on the right

 side in blocks is always on the ascending side.

 He admitted it to be correct that when two 766 alleles of one sample are compared with the

 alleles of two other related samples, the allele

 number of the first sample find mention in the

 other two related samples as every child

 gets 50% DNA from either of the parent,

 meaning thereby one allele comes from the

 mother and one from the father. Out of four

 alleles of the parents i e two alleles each,

 father gives one allele and mother gives one

 allele to the child. xxix) The defence counsel had further

 put the following question to the witness

 which is reproduced alongwith its answer: The witness admitted it to be correct and

 clarified that since he had compared the peaks

 with the standard reference ladder and marked

 the written in hand the highest seized two

 peaks corresponding to the ladder, though he

 admitted that he had not initialled the same

xxxi) Thereafter the witness explained

 various number/ ladder peaks on page number 768 2 after serial number 4 that these are the

 positions of the commonly found alleles in

 the reference ladder. He testified while

 comparing the samples, their peaks are

 compared with the peaks of the reference

 ladder for identification. He admitted it to be

 correct that on the basis of the standard

 reference ladder at the bottom on page 2 two

 alleles peaks/ numbers can be identified.

xxxii) Regarding the question of the

 defence that on page 2 at serial No. 3,there

 is allele number of marker No. D3S 1358

 pertaining to the alleles/peaks said to be from

 the body, the allele number shown as 16 is

 the tallest peak and on the right side of this

 peak there is a smaller peak. The witness

 admitted it to be correct and testified that he

 had not given the number of the peaks on the 769 right side since it was not a true allelic

 peak. He explained that there are some

 artifacts in the gel or in the PCR which lead

 to sometime spurious peaks which may be

 spikes, pull­ups stutter or even the dye blob.

 These peaks,spikes, pull­ups are commonly

 identified because of a sharp increase in the

 height instead of a true alletic peak which

 gradually increases in size and also decrease

 in size gradually. He further testified that if

 there are two peaks present at the marker, size

 of the higher peak cannot be lesser than the

 67% i e 2/3rd of the lower sized peak. 

xxxiii) He denied in the cross examination

 that while taking the genotype prints the

 computer will not reflect the entries of all

 the peaks. He stated that computer provides

 raw data which is edited by the examiner 770 looking for the spikes, pull­ups, stutters and

dye blob and then edit the data for the final

print out.He admitted that only the number of

peaks are edited at serial No.3 on page 2 of

Ex. C2. He denied the suggestion categorically

that at serial No 3 on page 2 pertaining to

D3S 1358 he intentionally did not show the

alleles numbers because the said allele number

on the right side being in excess of 16 does

not match with the allele at serial No. l or

serial No. 2. He explained that it is not a true

alletic peak. He testified that he had

mentioned the true alletic peak only in his

report and not the spurious peaks. The

witness categorically denied that the large

number of peaks depicts the contamination

in the sample. To the contrary he stated that

if there is contamination then the large 771 number of loci are expected. In answer to the

 defence counsel if there can be more than two

 peaks in a particular allele of a marker, he

 stated that more than two alleles may be

 present in a case of mixture and rare genetic

 anomaly like trisomy which he examined is

 a rare condition in which instead of two, three

 chromosomes are present. xxxiv) The witness was put several

 general questions and one such question was

 is it correct, chances of degradation of

 biological material which remained

 unprotected in the environment, resulting in

 environmental insults, it breaks down. The

 witness answered in the affirmative that these

 samples got degraded in such circumstances

 and he admitted it to be correct that there

 are certain limits after which it is simply not 772 possible to produce the profile of DNA. 

xxxv) The witness admitted it to be

 correct that if proper precautions are not

 taken when more than one postmortem are

 conducted simultaneously by the same doctor,

 there is possibility of cross contamination of

 the blood samples. He also admitted it to be

 correct that dust, dirt, temperature, light,

 ultra­violet, rays, humidity, biological

 contamination etc may damage degrade or

 destroy the DNA as well as the blood

 samples. xxxvi) The witness was further

 questioned that one of the important sources of

 DNA is drawn from bone or its marrow

 but the witness stated that it is only one of the

 sources and in answer to the other question

 of the defence counsel he stated that he did 773 not extract any DNA from a large piece of

 bone supplied to him as he selected the

 better sources for analysis. xxxvii) The defence counsel further

 questioned him as to how he considered that

 bone is an inferior quality of DNA without

 conducting any test to this effect,the witness

 explained that the problems with a bone is

 that it requires more processing being a hard

 material then the easily digestible soft tissue

 materials with large blood supply ie large

 cellular material. xxxviii) The witness further

 enumerated the basis carried out by him on

 being explained by the defence counsel. He

 stated that on 28.2.02 he opened the parcels

 and performed the tests for identification of

 blood, identification of bone and the 774 identification of the tissues. He started the

 DNA isolation on the exhibits on 28.02.02 and

 it was completed on 1.3.2002. After the DNA

 isolation, quality and quantity check, on

 1.3.2002 he performed the Polymerase Chain

 Reaction for Power Plex 16. He carried no

 other test except those mentioned in the

 report. xxxix) The witness was further

 questioned as to whether he took any steps to

 decontaminate the PCR machine to prevent

 carry over contamination. The witness again

 categorically replied that though he had not

 mentioned this fact in his report but it is a

 regular procedure for cleaning the equipments

 and auto cleaning the other consumables in

 the lab. The witness was further questioned

 as follows: The relevant question in this regard is 776 reproduced alongwith its answers as follows:­

Q: Is it correct that DNA finger printing is not fool
proof and does not always provide conclusive evidence
in criminal cases. There are some technical and
statistical tissues that affect the use of DNA evidence.
Human error in handling tissue samples collected at a
crime scene and during the laboratory work is always
a possibility. Samples can accidentally be switched or
mislabeled during DNA preparation or electrophoretic
analysis. Also,the PVR reaction is highly prone to
contamination. Remember that only a few molecules of
extraneous DNA introduced into a sample are sufficient
to produce a detectable PCR product. The most
common source of DNA contamination is DNA from
another sample or from the individuals collecting the
samples or doing the lab. work.The usual result of
contamination is the presence of DNA fragments that
typically do not match any of the individuals involved in
the crime.While thoughtful analysis of contaminated
samples can often distinguish the presence of a
suspects DNA pattern despite the presence of
contaminating DNA attorneys tend to encourage 777 jurors to discount any evidence containing
contaminated DNA ( as in the criminal trial of O J
Simpson). Because only small segments of DNA are
amplified the PCR test works with partially degraded
DNA, however some DNA samples can be degraded to
the point where PCR cannot amplify a fragment?

A: I do not agree with the comment because the

reliability of DNA test techniques was established

in 1996 by the National Research Council II Report. 

xliii) He further denied the suggestion

 that artifacts, superious peaks, spike etc

 which are hardly visible has wrongly been

 shown and numbered as allelice peaks have

 not been numbered so as to pass it off as

 artifacts. xliv) The defence counsel has claimed

 that the CD of genome scan and genotyper

 software from which PW37 had prepared the 778 genotype print out was not supplied and as

such he could not effectively cross examine the

witness nor could they obtain the opinion of

another expert to verify that the report Ex.C1

was authenticated. He has made reference to

the order of the Hon'ble High court dtd 4/12/03

whereby directions were issued to summon the

expert witness alongwith the requisite record

and the defence was allowed full opportunity to

cross examine the witness. The perusal of the

order of the Hon'ble High Court shows that

there was no such direction to the witness to

produce the CD of genome scan and genotyper

software. The perusal of the testimony of PW37

dtd 18/5/04 shows that on that day he supplied

the genotype print out to the defence counsel

and at the instance of the defence counsel the

witness was directed to supply the CD of 779 genome scan and genotyper software and his

cross examination was deferred for next day ie

19/5/04. The perusal of record shows that on

19/5/04 the defence counsel cross examined the

witness without raising any objection or

bringing it to the knowledge of the court that

the witness did not supply the relevant

documents. If the documents were so important

for the defence to cross examine the witness, it

was the duty of the defence counsel to have

insisted for adjournment of the case for want of

documents as in my opinion the defence

counsel was not an expert to cross examine the

witness on the basis of these documents

immediately on receipt of the same on 19/5/04

and would have required some time to go

through the documents and to obtain experts

opinion. However, no such plea was raised 780 before the court by the defence counsel and the

cross examination of the witness was partly

concluded on 19/5/04 and the remaining on

20/5/04. Even when the matter was adjourned

for 20/5/04 he did not insist upon this

document as it does not find mention either in

the statement of the witness or in the

ordersheet of the even date. The only

suggestion I find on record to the testimony of

this witness recorded on 19/5/04 is to the effect

that he had intentionally not supplied the CD

of genome scan and genotyper software to

suppress the analysis of the DNA so as to

prepare a fabricated report. Had the defence

counsel insisted upon supply of these

documents and had refused to cross examine

the witness for want of these documents and if

thereafter still the documents were not supplied 781 to him by the witness, the malafides could be

attributed to him. If these documents were so

important, I find no reason for the defence not

to insist upon these documents when the

witness again appeared for cross examination

on 19/5/04. Besides, no expert witness has been

examined in defence to the effect that in the

absence of genome scan and genotyper software

the analysis of the DNA conducted by PW37

could not be verified. The entire cross

examination of this witness shows that he was

cross examined on all the available data and

material on record with expertise which he may

have acquired himself or through an expert.

He was cross examined at length on

technical aspect of examination which the

expert witness has answered satisfactorily

and no suggestion to the contrary was made 782 to the witness. Despite lengthy cross

 examination the defence has failed to discredit

 his testimony. To my opinion the questions

 put to the witness during cross examination

 were more of general nature as to whether

 there can be degradation in the samples or

 contamination but the witness has nowhere

 been suggested that any such error has

 occurred in the sample of the present case. 

xlv) The purpose of examination of

 expert witness by the prosecution or by accused

 persons is only to bring truth on record and

 not to favour one or the other party. PW37 is

 an expert in the science of DNA profiling and

 has been reporting DNA cases since January

 2001 after extensive training in DNA profiling.

 He is working as Assistant Director, Incharge

 DNA Unit, Biology Division, CFSL Calcutta and 783 this fact is not disputed by the accused persons.

 No suggestion was given to the witness, he was

 making a false statement or was under the

 influence of the complainant. Thus, merely for

 the reason that CD genome scan and genotype

 software were not supplied, the testimony of

 this witness cannot be thrown away if the same

 is otherwise trustworthy, reliable and helpful in

 the decision of the case. xlvi) The perusal of the entire cross

 examination of the witness shows, he was

 nowhere suggested that in the present case

 there was contamination in DNA samples or

 samples were not found packed, labelled and

 sealed properly. It was also not suggested to

 him that the samples were degraded. 

xlvii) No doubt, this witness has

 admitted that there can be error in the sample 784 if the sampling is improper but to this effect

 PW8 Dr. TD Dogra and PW10 Dr. Sanjeev

 Lalwani who had collected the blood samples

 from the parents of the deceased and sample

 tissues from the unidentified dead body were

 not cross examined. No suggestion was given to

 these two witnesses during cross examination

 that the samples were not collected properly,

 were not packed properly or were not sealed

 properly. In the absence of such cross

 examination the presumption is that the

 testimony of PW7 and PW10 is correct and the

 samples were taken properly, hygenically

 observing all the precautions and were also

 packed and sealed properly. xlviii) Similarly, though PW37 has

 admitted in cross examination that samples do

 get degraded if biological material remains 785 unprotected in the environment and that if

more than one postmortem are conducted

simultaneously by the same doctor, there is

possibility of contamination. At the same time I

find no question in this regard was put to PW3

Dr. Anil Singhal who conducted postmortem on

the dead body. He was not suggested that the

dead body was kept in unprotected

environment. There is no evidence on record

that simultaneously alongwith the dead body of

unidentified person another postmortem was

conducted by PW3 on 18/2/02 and even no

such suggestion was advanced to the doctor

PW3 who could have been the best witness to

say that the dead body was kept in unhygenic

condition which could damage, degrade or

destroy the DNA as well as the blood samples.

After PW3, the other best witnesses who could 786 throw some light on this aspect are PW8 and

PW10 but they too were not subjected to cross

examination to this effect. Hence, for all these

apprehensions which cropped up in the mind of

defence counsel, no evidence has been brought

on record by the defence through cross

examination of the relevant witnesses. Moreover

PW8 has categorically stated in answer to court

questions that DNA test can be conducted

accurately in respect of dead body lying in

open in a jungle or even in a drain if some

sample can be taken from the body. He also

categorically stated that outside contamination

does not effect the DNA test so long as DNA

can be retrieved from the tissues or bones. As

such, in the present case it is presumed that

sample were neither contaminated nor

degraded. xlix) In view of the above discussion, I am

 of the opinion that the DNA report Ex.C1

 prepared by PW37 is elaborate and is

 trustworthy. l) It has already been proved on record

 through the testimony of PW8 Dr. TD Dogra

 and PW10 Dr. Sanjeev Lalwani that the blood

 sample from Sh. NM Katara were collected by

 Dr. Sanjeev Lalwani under the supervision of

 Dr. TD Dogra vide file No. CL.FOR.MED.No.

 12/2002. Blood sample was soaked on gauze

 piece, kept on blotting paper and was dried

 under natural condition. The forms required for

 DNA test at CFSL Calcutta were duly filled. The

 samples were wrapped in blotting paper kept in

 airtight polythene bag. The polythene bag

 containing sample was kept in an envelope

 which was sealed with the seal of Deptt of 788 Forensic Medicine and labelled. In the similar

 manner, the blood sample of Smt. Neelam

 Katara was collected vide file No.

 CL.FOR.MED.No.13/2002. li) The prosecution through the

 testimony of PW8 Dr. TD Dogra and PW10 Dr.

 Sanjeev Lalwani proved that unidentified dead

 body was pointed out by PW35 Anil Somania

 on 22/2/02 in the mortuary and thereafter the

 samples were taken from the body. This fact is

 not disputed by the defence in the cross

 examination. lii) Similarly, vide the testimony of

 these two witnesses, it is proved on record that

 vide file No. CL.FOR.MED.No.14/2002 sample

 tissues were collected from the dead body of

 the unidentified person. All the tissues were

 kept in separate bottles and were labelled and 789 sealed with the seal of Department, sample seal

 was prepared separately. The bone was wrapped

 in a polythene. Thereafter all the tissues were

 kept in freezer for store and the bone was kept

 in refrigerator. liii) It is also proved on record through

 the statement of both PW8 and PW10 that the

 samples were handed over to PW17 SI RC

 Makholia vide receipt Ex.PW8/D for carrying the

 same to CFSL Calcutta. liv) Through the unrebutted statement

 of PW17 SI RC Makholia the prosecution has

 proved on record that when he received the

 sample packets alongwith the sample seal on

 25/2/02, they were duly sealed and the seals

 were intact. It is also proved through his

 testimony that so long the samples remained in

 his possession the seal remained intact and he 790 deposited the samples with CFSL Calcutta with

 intact seal on the same day. lv) The testimony of PW17 finds

 corroboration from the statement of PW37

 whereby he testified that on 25/2/02 he

 received one sealed thermocol box, three sealed

 paper packets and one sealed cloth packet in

 his office relating to this case, the details of

 which are given in his report Ex.C1. The report

 Ex.C1 to this effect finds mention that the

 witness had received these samples in sealed

 condition alongwith corresponding seal

 impression forwarded to him. The report also

 speaks that the three sealed paper packets were

 marked A, B & C in the laboratory which

 contained Ex.A, B & C respectively and the

 sealed cloth packet was marked D in the

 laboratory which contained Ex.D. The sealed 791 thermocol box contained Ex.E, F, G, H, I & J.

 The details of the exhibits are already discussed

 in the facts of the case on page 25 and are not

 repeated here again. lvi) From the report Ex.C1 it is proved

 on record that the exhibits A & B were the

 blood samples of the parents of deceased Nitish

 Katara whereas the exhibits C to J were the

 blood and tissue samples taken out from the

 unidentified dead body. As per the report it is

 proved on record that the small portions of

 Ex.A blood stained I, and Ex.B blood stained II,

 Ex.C blood stained III, Ex.F tissue sample II, Ex.J

 tissue sample VI were subjected to DNA

 isolation by organic extraction method. High

 molecular Weight DNA could be isolated from

 exhibits A, B & C while degraded DNA was

 recovered from Ex.F & J. From the report itself 792 it is clear that the degraded samples were not

 taken into consideration for conducting DNA

 which was the apprehension in the mind of the

 defence counsel. The report further proves that

 the DNA from the samples were subjected to

 multiplex PCR reaction for fifteen STR loci and

 amelogenin using commercially available Power

 Plexd 16 kit. Allelles of all loci in the Exhibits

 amplified successfully. The amplified products

 alongwith controls were run on Automated DNA

 Sequencer and analysis was carried out using

 GeneScan, Genotyper and Power Typer 16

 Macro softwares with respect to standard

 ladder. lvii) The report speaks that the body

 source of Ex.C Blood stained III, Ex.F tissue

 sample II and Ex.J tissue sample VI forwarded

 vide CL.FOR.MED.No. 14/2002 belongs to the 793 biological son of Mrs. Neelam Katara (source of

 Ex.D blood stained II) and Sh. NM Katara

 (source of Ex.A blood stained I). In view of the

 above discussion, in my opinion the prosecution

 has successfully proved through DNA test that

 the person whose unidentified dead body was

 recovered on 17/2/02 from Shikarpur Road was

 the biological son of Mr. NM Katara and Mrs.

 Neelam Katara. The prosecution has successfully

 proved the identity of the deceased as Nitish

 Katara. This circumstance proved by the

 prosecution is another link in the chain of

 circumstantial evidence. accused persons took place in a very dramatic

manner. Firstly they remained absconded from

Ghaziabad after the incident as despite raids

conducted at their respective houses and other

places they were not traceable and as such

court on the application Ex.PW35/8 of the IO

issued process U/s 82 of Cr.PC on 20/2/02 .

Secondly, on 21/2/02 an application Ex.DW6/1

was moved by DW6 Neeraj Gautam on behalf

of accused persons in the court alleging

harassment at the hands of the police and they

sought information vide this application if they

were wanted in any criminal case. The

application was bearing the signatures of both

the accused persons. Thirdly, on 22/2/02 another

application Ex.DW6/7 is moved by the accused

persons in the court on the ground of illness.

This application is moved by Adv. Shailesh 795 Sharma and was bearing the signatures of both

 the accused persons showing their presence in

 Ghaziabad whereas as per the defence evidence

 produced vide testimony of DW12 Arvind Mishra

 and DW19 Jai Singh that they were in

 Allahabad on 20­21/2/02 and in view if their

 statement U/s 313 Cr.PC the accused persons

 had left Allahabad for Delhi on 22/2/02. As such

 it is not possible for the accused persons to be

 present at two places at the same time ie at

 Ghaziabad when an application Ex.DW6/1 was

 moved before the court on 21/2/02 bearing their

 signatures and then again on 22/2/02 when

 another application Ex.DW6/8 was moved on

 their behalf seeking their personal exemption on

 medical grounds shows their presence at

 Ghaziabad. ii) The prosecution has claimed that 796 the accused persons had managed their arrest

 at Dabra in a dramatic manner and has

 submitted that if the statement of accused Vikas

 u/s 313 Cr.PC is believed to be correct then he

 could not have been at Dabra at the time both

 the accused were allegedly arrested under Arms

 Act at Dabra. Spl.PP for State has drawn my

 attention towards the statement of accused

 Vikas Yadav U/s 313 Cr.PC dtd 15/5/07 which

 is reproduced as follows : This proves fact that the arrest was stage

 managed by the accused persons. v) So far the statement of accused Vishal

 Yadav U/s 313 Cr.PC is concerned, in answer to

 question No 95 regarding his arrest by the 801 police at PS Dabra on 23/2/02 he claimed that

 he alongwith his co­accused Vikas alighted from

 the train for some refreshment and some people

 perhaps from the police curtly questioned them

 in a misbehaving manner to which they

 objected and they were taken to the PS and

 were falsely arrested in the case. Whereas about

 the misbehaviour of the police officials at the

 railway station with the accused persons, no

 statement has been made by accused Vikas

 Yadav. vi) In question No. 217 accused Vishal Yadav

 stated that they were adviced by their advocates

 to surrender before the local court in Ghaziabad

 so from Allahabad they took the next available

 train to Delhi to reach Ghaziabad and on the

 way alighted at Dabra for refreshments but

 were falsely implicated. In answer to court question the accused

Vishal Yadav stated as follows : Sukbir, Ct. Gajender, Ct. Kedar and recorded the

departure entries at S No 1522. These entries

are proved on record as Ex.PW36/1 and Ex.PW

36/2 respectively. On the way to the Railway

Station PW29 Ct. Brij Mohan was also joined.

Since it was time for the train to come, he

alongwith Ct. Brij Mohan Mishra went to Maal

Godown which had its gate towards sarafa

bazaar. At 4am next train was to reach there.

They started checking at 4am the passengers

who were coming. He checked two persons

namely Anil and Rakesh. Then two other

persons who disclosed their names as Rajkumar

and Sushil who are the accused present in

court. He stated that he tried to search them

but they tried to slip, then he caught hold of 805 them and interrogated them sternly and then

they told their names as Vikas and Vishal. He

deposed about recovery of cartridges from both

the accused persons and their arrest under Arms Act . He further stated that in the

disclosure statement made to him during

interrogation both the accused told that they

had kidnapped Nitish Katara from Kavi Nagar

Ghaziabad. The witness testified that he

alongwith the accused persons reached the PS

at 6:30am, made arrival entry vide DD No. 1530

Ex.PW36/3 and registered FIR No. 99/02 against

accused Vikas Yadav and FIR No. 100/02 against

accused Vishal Yadav for recovery of cartridges

which are Ex.PW36/4 & 5 respectively. He

further testified that it was Eid Holiday on that

day and concerned Magistrate had not come

and he kept waiting for him. Thereafter he 806 produced the accused persons before Sh.Mukesh

 Dangi, the Duty Magistrate at about 11:45pm in

 the night of 23/2/02. He stated that UP police

 met him in the evening at PS at 5pm or 6pm.

 This witness was declared hostile by the

 prosecution and was cross examined on

 material particulars at length by the Spl. PP for

 State. x) What is strange is that accused

 persons were arrested around 4am at Dabra PS

 but they were produced before the Duty

 Magistrate at 11:45pm which itself proves the

 influence of accused persons on the police. It

 appears that it was only with a view to avoid

 their judicial remand at Dabra and their being

 handed over to Ghaziabad police. This tactic

 was adopted to gain time and this doubt is

 cleared by PW36 Inspt Ashok Bhadoria himself 807 during the cross examination by the Spl.PP. He

 admitted it to be correct that on holiday also

 there is one Magistrate on duty throughout the

 day but still he failed to give any cogent reason

 as to why the accused persons were not

 produced before the Magistrate during day time

 and why they were produced at his residence

 at odd hours ie 11:45pm. The stage managed

 arrest is further proved from the admission of

 PW36 that he was knowing that accused Vikas

 was son of DP Yadav and his address was also

 on his record. He further admitted that accused

 Vishal was also known to him. xi) It is strange that in his chief

 examination PW36 stated that both the accused

 had given their names as Rajkumar and Sushil

 and only after interrogating them sternly they

 disclosed their names as Vikas and Vishal. But if 808 he was already aware of their names and knew

 them then he had no reason to ask their names

 at the Railway Station. It is more strange to

 note that if the accused persons were known to

 him why he searched them and why he

 suspected them to be members of chaddi­

 banyan gang as per the information. It is

 further strange that despite knowing the

 accused persons he did not inform DP Yadav

 but one Mr. Raghav and Avtar Singh as told to

 him by the accused persons. Besides, it is not

 digestible that the accused persons of such

 status would carry bullets with them. xii) This witness has further stated that

 news about their arrest flashed in media / TV

 around 11am and he stated that he learnt from

 TV only that it was a high profile case. The

 question arises that how the matter went to 809 media and who informed them but his witness

 failed to give any answer. xiii) Regarding the production of the accused

 persons before the Magistrate at 11:45pm, he

 stated that since he had 24 hours to produce

 the accused persons before the Magistrate so he

 did not produce them during day time but this

 explanation is not acceptable as there was no

 reason for him not to produce them before the

 Duty Magistrate during day time as they were

 simply arrested under Arms Act and were not

 required to be further interrogated after the

 recovery was effected from their possession. xiv) The argument of the defence

 counsel that the arrest was not stage managed

 by them but by the prosecution and the

 accused persons were falsely implicated under Arms Act , in my opinion has no force , as if the 810 prosecution was behind all this there was no

 need to get these accused persons arrested

 under Arms Act falsely at PS Dabra as they

 could straight away be got arrested in the

 present case. xv) Besides, it is admitted by the

 accused persons in their statement U/s 313 Cr.PC that they were arrested at Dabra Railway

 Station though they claimed that it was their

 false arrest, however at the same time it has

 not been reasonably explained by the accused

 persons as to how they reached Dabra. They

 have also failed to produce any documentary

 evidence of their travel from Ghaziabad to

 Allahabad, the name of the train and what

 time they reached there and what time by

 which train they started either for Delhi or for

 Kanpur and then to Jhansi and thereafter to 811 Delhi. This fact could only be disclosed by the

 accused persons since it was only within their

 special knowledge. xvi) The influence of the accused

 persons on the witness PW 36 Inspt Ashok

 Bhadoria is writ large as he did not support the

 prosecution case on material particulars, he did

 not produce the accused persons before the

 concerned Magistrate during day time,

 consequently the jail authorities refused to take

 their custody and accused persons succeeded in

 avoiding jail that night. It is unheard of that

 accused persons arrested under Arms Act at

 4am were produced at the residence of the

 Magistrate at 11:45pm that too without any

 explanation. xvii) This witness testified during cross

 examination by Spl. PP that after the accused 812 persons were ordered to be sent to the judicial

custody on the night of 23­24/2/02 he talked to

the Jailor on telephone who told him that it

was night time and he would no be in a

position to take accused persons to jail and that

he should bring them to jail in the morning

therefore on that night he kept the accused

persons in the lockup. He further admitted that

he did not seek any permission from the

Magistrate to keep the accused persons in the

lockup after refusal by the jailor. It is the

strange conduct of the witness that he without

permission from the court detained the accused

persons in the lockup which again fortifies my

view that he was hand in gloves with the

accused persons and intentionally produced the

accused persons before the Duty Magistrate at

11:45pm the odd hours and thereafter kept them 813 in the lockup in the PS and made no effort to

 send them to the jail. Besides being police

 officer he was also the SO of PS Dabra and it

 is presumed that he was well aware of the

 laws, rules and regulations, particularly, that if

 the accused are produced at late hours at the

 residence of the duty magistrate he could have

 obtained the order simultaneously for directions

 to the Jail Supdt to receive the custody of the

 accused persons in jail but he did not make

 any such effort which shows that he had no

 sanctity for law. xviii) It is further important to note that

 he was not the IO of the cases registered vide

 FIR No. 99/02 and 100/02 against the accused

 persons. He admitted that after he brought the

 accused persons to the PS at 6:30am he ceased

 to be the IO and thereafter the IO was SI 814 Bhanwar Singh and the witness admitted that

 after he had transferred the investigation of the

 case he had no role to play in the investigation

 of these two cases. Then why he was taking so

 much interest in the present case and

 influencing the investigation. His testimony to

 the effect that he had spoken to the jailor on

 telephone does not find mention in the GD. 

xix) The testimony of this witness that

 UP Police had reached at Dabra PS at 5 or 6pm

 also does not find support from any entry in

 the GD. xx) During cross examination by Sh. SK

 Sharma, adv he testified that UP Police had

 made arrival and departure entries at PS Dabra

 at 13:20 hours on 24/2/02 ie after obtaining the

 custody of accused persons from Dabra Jail and

 the copy of the relevant entry is Ex.PW36/8. He 815 admitted that there is no entry in any record of

PS about arrival of UP Police at Dabra either at

5pm, before or after 5pm on 23/2/02. During the

cross examination of Sh. SK Sharma,adv he

further stated that about 15 / 16 UP Police

officials had come to PS Dabra and they said

that they wanted to interrogate accused persons

and he permitted them to do so. He admitted

the suggestion of the defence counsel that

accused persons were taken to a room and

were interrogated by UP Police for 5 ­ 6 hours

and Sh. Raghav SP UP Police was also in that

room at that time when the accused persons

were interrogated. However, the aforesaid

testimony does not find corroboration from the

statement of Anil Somaia or any other official

record maintained at PS Dabra. This witness has

been making statement at different stages 816 according to his convenience and particularly

favourable to the accused persons but does not

find corroboration from the record or from

testimony of other witnesses. Particularly when

he himself testified in answer to a court

question that as per the General Diary brought

by him the accused persons were sent in the

lockup at about 6:30 /6:45am, thereafter they

were given food at 9:45amand thereafter the

accused persons were taken out for producing

them before the Judicial Magistrate at about

11:30pm. The record thus speaks of the relevant

fact that the accused persons remained in the

lockup of the police station from 6:30amto

11:45pm. Therefore the testimony of this witness

that the accused persons were interrogated for

4­5 hours in a room is a false statement.

Moreover this witness himself admitted in 817 answer to court question that it is not in his

discretion to handover any accused who is in

his police custody in their lockup to any police

official of other State. This itself shows that the

accused persons were never handed over to the

UP Police for interrogation as claimed by this

witness during cross examination by Sh. SK

Sharma the defence counsel. By making such

statement it appears that he was tutored to

make favourable statement during cross

examination. Even both the accused in their

statement U/s 313 Cr.PC have claimed that they

were interrogated by Ghaziabad police at Dabra

on 23/2/02. Regarding non making of the

entries by the UP Police in the DD register on

23/2/02 at 5pm he stated that UP Police had

told him that they would make their arrival

and departure in the date of 24/2/02 at the 818 time when they would take the accused

 persons, however there seems to be no logic

 behind this as if they had reached PS Dabra on

 23/2/02 there was no reason for them not to

 make any entry in the register as their presence

 was obviously to be recorded in the court

 proceedings at the time of judicial remand of

 the accused persons. xxi) This witness has also made

 contradictory statement with regard to the

 recovery of railway tickets from the possession

 of accused persons. He testified that railway

 tickets were recovered from their possession in

 their search but he could not produce record of

 any such recovery. If railway ticket were

 recovered from them why he could not produce

 the same before the court. Neither Railway

 tickets nor any seizure memo to this effect was 819 produced in the Court. It shows that railway

 tickets were never recovered. Even PW29

 Ct.Brijmohan whose evidence shall be discussed

 hereinafter, also admitted that in his presence

 no tickets were recovered from the possession

 of accused persons. This lends support to the

 fact that Inspt Ashok Bhadoria is a false

 witness. xxii) PW36 Inspt Ashok Bhadoria had

 testified during cross examination by Spl.PP that

 he had himself informed Ghaziabad police

 through wireless as well as through telephone

 on No.01204711843 from his mobile

 No.9827214857 at 7/8 am. Though no

 documentary evidence to this effect has been

 produced on record. xxiii) PW29 Ct. Brij Mohan Mishra was

 present alongwith Inspt Ashok bhadoria at 820 Railway Station Dabra for checking near Maal

 Godown. He testified that both the accused

 persons were arrested since they had run away

 from near Maal Godown and as such they were

 suspected and were apprehended. This witness

 during cross examination by Sh.SK Sharma, adv

 categorically stated that in his presence Inspt

 Ashok Bhadoria had not seized railway tickets

 from the accused persons. Regarding the

 presence of UP Police at PS Dabra this witness

 categorically stated in answer to the question of

 the defence that UP Police had reached there in

 the evening of 24/2/02 which shows that UP

 Police never visited PS Dabra on 23/2/02. 

xxiv) So far PW35 SI Anil Somania he

 categorically testified that on 23/2/02 he was

 present in PS Kavi Nagar when he learnt from

 TV News footage that Vikas and Vishal Yadav 821 had been arrested in Dabra, MP. He testified

that after he came to know of the fact, he

talked to his SSP and informed him about the

news,then SSP made telephone call at Dabra to

confirm the news whereby it was confirmed

that both Vishal and Vikas Yadav had been

arrested in Dabra MP. He testified that

thereafter he was given direction to go to

Dabra and after receiving directions he prepared

the police party for going to Dabra and made

DD entry No.20 in GD dtd 23/3/02 at 12:25 pm

(afternoon) and that the police party included

SI JK Gangwar and few constables. He proved

the DD entry as Ex.PW35/10. He testified that

he had reached PS Dabra at 11pm on 23/2/02

and first went to PS Dabra where he learnt

that from there accused persons had been taken

for production before the judicial magistrate at 822 his house in the night. He also learnt that the

accused persons were arrested under Arms act

with PS Dabra. UP Police went to the house of

Judicial Magistrate where the accused persons

were being produced and he moved an

application Ex.PW35/11A (original taken out

from the record of Dabra court and the carbon

copy of the same is Ex.PW35/11) that accused

persons should not be released on bail. He

stated that on the intervening night of 23­

24/2/02 they stayed in a small hotel at Dabra

arranged by Inspt Ashok bhadoria. On 24/2/02

he recorded the statement of Inspt Ashok

Bhadoria and PW29 Ct. Brij Mohan. He stated

that he had correctly recorded the statement of

Inspt Ashok Bhadoria Ex.PW35/12. He further

testified that he applied for 2 days transit

remand of the accused persons to the judicial 823 Magistrate around 12 noon vide application

Ex.PW35/13. The transit remand for two days of

the accused persons was accorded. The order

of the concerned Judicial Magistrate is part of

the Ex.CW2/1 which is the entire record

pertaining to the proceedings pending against

the accused persons at Dabra. He stated that he

did not get an opportunity to interrogate the

accused persons when they were in JC at Dabra

or when they were in custody at Dabra. He

stated that he took custody of the accused

persons from Jail at Dabra and started from

Dabra at 3:30pm on 24/2/02. He stated that they

reached Ghaziabad on 25/2/02 at 5am and

accused were produced in the court of CJM

Ghaziabad at about 10am. During cross

examination he testified that he did not receive

any message from Dabra PS through telephone 824 or mobile that they had arrested the accused

 persons. No suggestion to the contrary was

 made to the witness by the defence counsel

 that he was informed by SI Ashok Bhadoria

 through wireless message and from his mobile

 number on 01204711843 that the accused

 persons were arrested at PS Dabra. Regarding

 the arrival of UP Police at Dabra, he again

 categorically stated that he had reached there

 at 11pm and entry was made at the PS. Again

 no suggestion to the contrary was given to the

 witness by the defence counsel. However, since

 the entry was made by him in the register, it

 was the duty of the police of Dabra to have

 produced that record before the court.

xxv) The other witness examined to

 this effect is SI JK Gangwar PW34 who has

 deposed on the lines of Inspt Anil Somania. 825 During cross examination he too deposed that

 they had reached Dabra at 11pm and had taken

 custody of the accused persons from jail on

 24/2/02.This witness has not been suggested by

 any of the defence counsel that UP Police had

 reached PS Dabra at 5pmand had interrogated

 both the accused persons in a room for 4­5

 hours. xxvi) In view of the above

 discussion, it is proved on record that accused

 persons in connivance with Dabra Police stage

 managed their arrest and thereafter were

 arrested by PW35 SI Anil Somania in the

 present case with order of Judicial Magistrate,

 Dabra on 24/2/02. ➔ DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS OF ACCUSED

 PERSONS/ RECOVERY OF HAMMER EX. P 826 1, WRIST WATCH EX. PW7/A2 AND TATA

 SAFARI EX.PW 33/Pl : During transit remand, he stated, he had no

 talk with the accused persons and did not

 interrogate them as in UP no statement of

 accused can be recorded without the 827 permission of the Magistrate. He testified

that he made an application Ex.PW 35/15

before the CJM Ghaziabad and vide order

B to Bl on Ex.PW 35/15 permission was

given by the CJM Ghaziabad for recording the

statement of accused persons. So he went to jail

and recorded the statement of accused persons

in the case diary. He testified that accused

Vikas Yadav made disclosure statement Ex.PW

35/16 where he disclosed and confessed about

the kidnapping and murder of Nitish Katara

alongwith other accused persons and that he

could get recovered weapon of offence ie

hammer. He further testified that disclosure

statement Ex.PW35/17 of accused Vishal Yadav

was recorded by him, whereby he had made

disclosure that he could get recovered wrist

watch of the deceased. He further testified the 828 disclosure statements of both the accused

 persons were recorded in jail under court

 order. He further stated that as per, practice

 in UP disclosure statement is recorded in

 the case diary and even statement of witnesses

 U/s. 161 Cr. PC are also recorded in the case

 diary. It is seen that the disclosure statements

 of both the accused are not bearing the

 signature of the accused persons. The

 defence counsel argued that these disclosure

 statements of both the accused persons are

 fabricated, firstly for the reason these are not

 bearing signatures of the accused persons and

 secondly there is no witness to these disclosure

 statements from jail or any independent

 witness. ii) So far the signatures of the

 accused persons on their respective disclosure 829 statements are concerned, it is not a

 mandatory requirement as the veracity of

 disclosure statement is always tested by the

 discovery of relevant fact in pursuance of the

 same. iii) The defence counsel for accused

Vikas Yadav in his written submissions has made

reference to the authority reported in 1998 CrLJ

Page 2479 Karnataka High Court, Fellix­Joannas

Vs State of Doddapete Police State, Shimoga and

has claimed that in this authority it was held

that: He stated that a siteplan of the said place

was prepared by the SI Anil Somania. It is

stated that they had reached there around

12 noon. From there accused persons led

them to Khurja Shikarpur Road and pointed out

the place where the deadbody of the accused

was burnt. The siteplan of this place was also

prepared by the IO. Thereafter accused Vikas

Yadav got recovered the hammer which was

used in the crime from the bushes which were

about 7 steps away from the place pointed 835 out by him of burning the deadbody. It is

 stated that the accused himself had taken out

 the hammer from among the bushes by

 searching. He identified the hammer in the

 Court as Ex.Pl. The witness further testified

 that the bushes at the spot were the kind of

 grass which is called pattel in UP and it is

 used for making straw roofs i e the thatched

 roofs and he gave the height of the bushes

 around 2 / 3 ft at that time. He further

 categorically stated that the hammer which

 was recovered by the accused Vikas Yadav

 from among the pattel bushes was not visible

 from the road. ix) Thereafter he testified that

 wrist watch Ex.PW 7/Article A2 was got

 recovered by accused Vishal Yadav from the

 bushes about 5 steps away from the place 836 where accused Vikas Yadav had searched and

 got recovered the hammer. It is stated that

 recovery memo of the hammer and wrist watch

 Ex.PW 34/1 was prepared by the IO. He

 further stated that apart from the police

 persons two public witnesses Aslam and

 Raghu were present there and recoveries were

 made in their presence. x) PW 34 SI JK Gangwar

 further testified that one advocate Sh Satyapal

 Singh was also present when recoveries were

 effected at the instance of accused persons. He

 stated that Sh. Satyapal Singh was the

 advocate of the accused persons. He further

 stated that advocate Sh Satyapal Singh refused

 to sign the recovery memo stating that he was

 advocate of the accused persons and would

 not be able to defend the case on their behalf, 837 if he becomes a witness. Further advocate

 Sh. Satyapal Singh had taken the copy of

 recovery memo and he signed the original

 recovery memo by writing ­ Ek Prati

 Prapt Ki that he had received the copy of

 the seizure memo. This witness proved the

 endorsement made by advocate Sh Satyapal

 Singh and his signature as Ex.PW 34/lA on

 the recovery memo EX PW 34/1. xi) PW 35 SI Anil Somania corroborated

 the statement of PW 34 JK Gangwar on

 material particulars. He testified that he

 moved an application for police custody remand

 Ex PW 35/21 for police custody remand of

 both the accused persons. The accused persons

 were summoned by the Court for 27.2.02 and

 on the same day the Court granted police

 custody remand for 24 hours w.e.f 9 am on 838 28.2.02. He further testified that on 28­02­02

he went to jail after making entires in the GD

of the PS vide DD NO 11 Ex. PW 35/22. He

took the custody of the accused persons from

jail and left at 9.25 am. He was accompanied

by SI JK Gangwar, SI Tej Ram and five

constables. After the accused persons were

taken in police custody they led the police

party to Khurja Road 14 KM from Bulandshahar.

They told them to stop the vehicle about 25

steps before Railway crossing of Aughwar Pur

and pointed out the place where Nitish Katara

was murdered. He prepared the sketch of the

place Ex.PW 35/23. Thereafter the accused

persons led the police party from Khurja to

Shikarpur Road. The witness while giving the

identification of the place stated that there was

T point on that road where from one road 839 goes to Phasu and other goes to Shikarpur.

The accused persons took them to Shikarpur

Road and there the police party was stopped

at the place near the field of Zahir Vakeel as

told by the accused persons. He further stated

that he joined Raghu and Aslam two public

witnesses who were going to Khurja on the

same road and were stopped and asked to join

the investigation. He further stated that he and

other police officers gave search to the

witnesses and they also took the search of the

witnesses to ensure there was no incriminating

with them. Accused Vikas Yadav walked

about 6 steps from the road towards bushes

and from there he took out a hammer and

handed over to him. It is further stated that he

pointed out a blackish earthen spot on the

ground that deceased was burnt there. A little 840 away from there accused Vishal Yadav went

 to the fields and brought a wrist watch and

 gave it to him. xii) It is stated that under the directions of

 the Court one advocate Sh Satyapal Singh

 Yadav was accompanying them from Ghaziabad

 and was present at the time of recovery of

 hammer and wrist watch and pointing out of

 the spot of burning of deceased Nitish Katara. xiii) The witness was shown the

 hammer in the Court and he identified the

 same as Ex.Pl as the same which was got

 recovered by the accused Vikas Yadav. He

 further stated that he had sealed the same at

 the spot with the seal bearing his initial. He

 identified the cloth in which it was sealed as

 Ex.PW 34/A2. This witness was then shown

 wrist watch Ex.PW 7/Article A2 which he 841 claimed was sealed in a cloth parcel at the

 spot. He identified the cloth Ex.PW 7/Al

 and wrist watch Ex.PW 7/Article A2. He

 proved the recovery memo of hammer and

 wrist watch as Ex.PW 34/1. xiv) He further stated that the copy of

 recovery memo Ex.PW 34/1 was received by

 advocate Sh Satyapal Singh at the spot itself

 vide endorsement Ex.PW 34/1A on the recovery

 memo EX.PW 34/1. He testified that advocate

 Sh Satyapal Singh Yadav was practising

 advocate of Ghaziabad Courts and at that time

 was President of Bar Association. examination by the counsel for accused person.

xvi) The prosecution has claimed that

 at the time of recovery advocate Sh Satyapal 842 Singh was also accompanying the police

 party and accused persons in pursuance of

 the court order and he also signed the

 recovery memo Ex.PW34/1, whereas the

 accused persons examined DW 3 Sh

 Rajender Chaudhary to the effect that it is he

 who had accompanied them during police

 custody remand and no recovery was affected

 at the instance of the accused persons. 

xvii) Before I proceed to discuss as to

 whether the prosecution has succeeded in

 proving the recovery effected in furtherance

 of the disclosure statements of accused

 persons Ex. PW 35/16 and Ex. PW 35/17, it

 is to be seen which advocate accompanied

 them during their police custody remand

 whether it was advocate Sh Satyapal Singh

 Yadav or Sh Rajender Chaudhary. both these defence witnesses it is necessary to

 find what defence accused persons took in

 their statement U/s 313 Cr. PC. xx) The relevant question to this effect

 are reproduced as follows : xxiv) Court record speaks that PW 35 847 SI Anil Somania, IO of the case moved an

 application Ex.PW 35/21 on 26/2/02 for police

 custody remand of the accused persons which

 was forwarded by SP City Sh SP Raghav vide

 endorsement Ex. PW 35/21B . This application

 was allowed vide court order dtd. 27.02.02

 Ex.PW 35/21A and police custody remand for

 24 hours was granted wef 28.2.02 9 am.

 The court also directed IO to get the

 accused persons medically examined after taking

 their custody from jail and before handing

 over them back to jail. xxv) The order of the CJM Ghaziabad

 dtd 27/2/02 on the application of the IO for PC

 remand of accused persons shows that it also

 allowed one lawyer of the accused persons

 to be present during police custody remand

 with direction not to interfere in the 848 proceedings. It is also on record that two

 separate applications were moved by the

 accused persons for permitting four lawyers of

 each accused to accompany them in PC

 remand, however these applications were not

 allowed in view of the earlier court order dtd

 27/2/02 permitting one lawyer to accompany

 them during PC remand. The prosecution

 has claimed that it is advocate Sh Satyapal

 Yadav who accompanied the accused persons

 in police custody remand and he obtained

 the copy of the recovery memo at the spot of

 recovery itself and signed the recovery memo

 Ex PW 34/1 besides the accused persons. 

xxvi) The prosecution had not cited

 advocate Satpal Yadav as a prosecution witness

 since he had accompanied accused persons

 during their police custody remand under court 849 order, but an attempt was made by the

 prosecution to examine him as a prosecution

 witness during trial. An application to that

 effect was moved for summoning advocate

 Satpal Yadav as a prosecution witness but it

 was dismissed vide order dtd. 29.07.2006 and

 this order was challenged before the Hon'ble

 High Court and vide its order dtd. 6/8/07

 allowed prosecution to examine the witness

 but then prosecution chose not to examine him.

 No doubt it is the prerogative of the

 prosecution to decide which witness is to be

 examined and which witness is to be dropped.

xxvii) Since prosecution chose not to

 examine advocate Satpal Yadav as prosecution

 witness, he was produced by the accused

 persons in defence evidence as DW 22. Before

 discussing the evidence of this witness it would 850 be appropriate to discuss the testimony of DW

 3 Advocate Rajender Chaudhary. as an advocate for accused Vikas Yadav in the

 present case in Ghaziabad Courts. On 27.2.02

 he moved an application Ex.DW 3/A on

 behalf of accused Vikas Yadav seeking

 permission to remain with the accused during

 police custody remand. In the application he

 had given the names of four advocates

 including himself, however the court had

 permitted one advocate to be with both the

 accused persons during police custody remand.

 He stated that the order of CJM on the

 application itself was passed ie Ex.DW 3/B

 and 3/C respectively. He stated that during

 police custody remand of 3 days wef 28.2.02 851 to 01.3.2002 he had accompanied both the

accused persons. He stated that accused

persons were collected by the police from the

jail on 28.2.02 . He had gone to the jail in his

own vehicle. When he reached there police

alongwith the accused persons were already

outside the jail and he showed the order of the

court to the police. The IO of the case told him

that he should join them in his own private

vehicle and they would not permit him to sit

alongwith them in their vehicle. He stated that

he followed the police in vehicle No. DL 5CB

4595 but he could not tell which vehicle it

was, though he stated that it was a big vehicle

and was provided by the person who was

perusing the case on behalf of accused persons

and had engaged his services. He further

stated that he followed the police in the 852 aforesaid vehicle, firstly to Khurja where some

 Inspt belonging to Khurja was already present

 alongwith the jeep. The aforesaid jeep was

 followed by the police of Ghaziabad who was

 followed by him and they all stopped about 2 /

 3 kms on Shikarpur Road away from Khurja.

 He stated that he was the only advocate who

 was following the police vehicle, though he

 admitted, in answer to court question that

 besides him the names of other three

 advocates were also given in his application Ex. question he admitted that there was no written

 order by the court in his favour to accompany

 the accused persons in police custody remand.

 He voluntarily stated that the court had

 directed him verbally. xxx) So far accused Vikas Yadav is

 concerned, DW3 stated that it was not to his

 knowledge if any application was moved on

 his behalf before CJM Ghaziabad by any

 advocate seeking permission to accompany the

 accused in police custody remand. xxxi) Thereafter in answer to a

 suggestive question by Sh. GK Bharti, adv , he

 stated that it was with the consent of lawyers

 of Vishal Yadav as well as Vikas Yadav he was

 chosen to accompany the accused persons. He

 stated that since he was already pursuing the

 case against accused Vikas Yadav, therefore all

 the counsels for both the accused arrived at a

 consensus that he should accompany both the

 accused in police custody remand. He further

 stated that both the accused had told him

 that on the way the police had obtained his 854 signatures on blank papers. xxxii) He further stated that so

 long he remained present with the accused

 persons and the police no recovery was effected

 at the instance of either of the accused nor any

 proceedings were conducted. xxxiii) This witness claimed that on

 1.3.02 when accused persons were produced

 before CJM Ghaziabad he was present there

 and informed the court orally that he was

 appointed in this case to accompany the

 accused persons and that no recovery was

 effected in his presence but court told him

 that as per the police recovery of hammer and

 watch was effected at the instance of the

 accused persons , so then he moved an

 application Ex.DW 3/D alongwith affidavit Ex

 DW 3/E before the Court and that the court 855 made an order Ex.DW 3/F. 

xxxiv) This witness was cross examined at

 length by Spl. PP for State. The perusal of the

 testimony of the witness shows though he

 claims himself to be the counsel for the accused

 persons but he was not aware that on 27.2.02

 Court had allowed the police custody remand

 only for 24 hours w.e.f. 9 am 28.2.02 and

 not for three days as deposed by him in his

 chief examination which is reproduced as

 follows:­

 " I had accompanied both the accused
during police custody remand of three days wef
28.2.02 to 1.3.02." xxxv) From his above statement is

 appears that perhaps he forgot that there are

 only 28 days in the month of Feb except in

 the leap year when there are 29 days. He 856 failed to make out that from the period

between 28.2.02 to 1.3.02 there are only 24

hours which means only one day. This shows

that this witness never accompanied the accused

persons. This witness further claimed that the

police did not allow him to accompany them in

their vehicle and told him to join them in his

own private vehicle so he followed the police in

his vehicle No. DL 5CB 4595 but he could

not tell which vehicle it was and he simply

claimed that it was a big vehicle arranged by

the person perusing the case on behalf of the

accused persons. The court record shows that

in his application Ex DW 3/D moved before

the CJM Ghaziabad it is mentioned that this

witness had remained alongwith the vehicle of

the police in his own private vehicle DL 5CB

4595, whereas in his chief examination he 857 stated that this witness was provided by the

 persons who was pursuing the case of the

 accused Vikas Yadav. xxxvi) The accused persons in their

 statement U/s 313 Cr PC have not claimed

 that Adv. Rajender Chaudhary remained with

 them during police custody remand. Version

 of DW 3 is that he followed them firstly to

 Khurja where some inspector belonging to

 Khurja was already there in a jeep and this

 jeep was followed by the police of Ghaziabad

 which was followed by him and they all

 stopped about 2 /3 km on Shikarpur Road. This

 defence has come on record for the first time

 and does not even find mention in the

 statement of the accused persons U/s 313 Cr

 PC. xxxvii) It also appears from the record 858 that there was no consensus between this

 witness and adv. Satpal Yadav as to what

 statement was to be made before the Court, as

 this witness testified that he was verbally

 directed by the court to accompany the accused

 persons in police custody remand, whereas DW

 22 Satpal Yadav stated it was by consensus of

 all the advocates of both the accused.

 Testimony of this witness further shows that

 he was not even aware of if any application

 was moved by the advocate for accused Vishal

 also seeking permission to accompany him

 during police custody remand. xxxviii) During the examination of this

 witness even the conduct of Sh GK Bharti

 counsel for accused Vikas Yadav is observed as

 he was putting questions to the witness which

 were suggestive of the answers and were more 859 in the form of cross examination. xxxix) The witness had already testified

 that court verbally directed him to accompany

 the accused persons during police custody

 remand but this was not suitable to the

 defence, so the following question was put by

 Sh GK Bharti, the counsel for accused Vikas

 Yadav during chief examination of the witness.

 The question is reproduced as follows:­

Ques: I put it to you that with the consent of lawyers
of Vishal Yadav as well as Vikas Yadav, you were
chosen to accompany the accused persons?

xl)It is observed that answer to the above

 question was inherent in itself and the

 witness being a lawyer was also wise enough

 to understand the language of the defence

 counsel and he promptly answered the

 question by saying 'Yes' . xli) It is strange that in one breath the

 witness stated that it was under the verbal

 direction of the Court he had accompanied the

 accused persons, whereas in another breath in

 answer to the question of the defence counsel

 he stated that he was chosen with the consent

 of lawyers of both the accused to accompany

 them in police custody remand. xlii) This witness was tutored and

 under the influence of the defence counsel

 which fact is clear from the conduct of Sh GK

 Bharti, counsel for accused Vikas Yadav, who

 kept on suggesting the answers to the witness

 in low tone and this is observed by the Court

 while recording the statement of the witness.

 Since I myself recorded the statement of the

 defence witnesses , thus I am conscious of the

 conduct of the defence counsel. It is also 861 observed that when DW 3 Rajender Chaudhary

 stated that accused Vikas Yadav told him that

 police had obtained his signatures on the blank

 papers on the way, Sh GK Bharti, counsel for

 accused Vikas Yadav suggested him the name

 of Vishal Yadav also in low tone and then the

 witness was put the following question:­

Ques: Did accused Vishal disclose anything to you
during the aforesaid period? xliii) Again the answer was obvious that after

 accused Vikas Yadav, Vishal Yadav also told

 him that police had obtained his signatures on

 blank papers. xliv) The theory that the signatures

 of the accused persons were obtained on blank

 papers during police custody remand on 28.2.02

 is again a false story as if no recovery was

 effected from the spot at the instance of the 862 accused persons and no recovery memo was

prepared in their presence on which the

signatures of the accused persons were obtained

besides the signature of advocate Satpal Yadav,

the question arises when the recovery memo

Ex.PW 34/1 was prepared by the police as

advocate SP Yadav testified that he had

signed the aforesaid memo at about 12 mid

night in his chamber. At the same time DW3

Rajender Chaudhary stated in his cross

examination that they had reached PS

Ghaziabad before 11.30 pm and then went to

the office of Chief Medical Officer MMG

Hospital ie for medical examination of both the

accused persons. Then at what time the

aforesaid recovery memo was prepared by the

police on the blank signed papers of the

accused persons. Whether it was prepared on 863 the way to Ghaziabad. It is not so claimed by

DW3 or the accused persons U/s 313 Cr.PC .

Merely stating that the accused persons were

made to sign blank papers in my opinion was

not enough to disprove any recovery allegedly

effected at the instance of the accused persons.

Some more evidence was required from the

defence in this regard. If the accused persons

had signed the blank papers then there was no

reason for the police to prepare the seizure

memo Ex.PW27/1 of Tata Safari Ex PW 33/Pl

without signature of accused persons, regarding

which the detailed discussion will be taken up

later. The IO has claimed that accused

persons had refused to sign the seizure memo

of Tata Safari. To my mind the question arises

where was the need for the accused persons to

sign the seizure memo if the police had already 864 obtained their signatures on the blank papers

 and these could be used by the police for

 preparing the seizure memo of the Tata Safari

 as well. It is unbelievable that the police

 fabricated the recovery memo Ex PW 34/1 on

 the pre­signed blank papers of the accused

 persons and on the other hand did not use

 these signed blank papers for preparing the

 seizure memo of Tata Safari. xlv) In my opinion the testimony of DW

 3 Rajender Chaudhary does not inspire any

 credence and he is not a trustworthy witness.

 His statement that no recovery was affected by

 the police at the instance of the accused

 persons on 28.2.02 is unbelievable as no police

 official will take the risk of his job by

 undertaking any such unlawful practice of

 fabricating the recovery memo and that too in 865 the presence of advocate of the accused

 persons . xlvi) His further testimony that on 1.3.02

 accused persons were produced before the

 Court and he informed the Court orally that

 he was appointed in this case to accompany the

 accused persons and that no recovery was made

 in his presence doe not find mention in the

 court order. His claim that when the court

 told him about the recovery he moved

 application and affidavit Ex DW 3/D and F

 respectively is again concocted version as it is

 not believable that till that time he was not

 informed by DW 22 Satpal Yadav that the

 police had obtained his signatures on the

 recovery memo. Whereas the testimony of DW

 22 Adv Satpal Yadav shows that he had

 informed DW3 Rajender Chaudhary about the 866 police obtaining his signatures on the seizure

memo and had also shown him the copy of

recovery memo and DW3 has admitted

during his testimony that before he went to the

Court Satpal Yadav met him and told him

about the recovery memo, then he orally told

the court that no recovery was effected by the

police but the police was showing recovery as

per the recovery memo, then court asked him

to move an application. These are two

contradictory statements made by the court,

firstly to the effect that it is the court who

informed him that police claims that recovery

was effected and then he moved an application

Ex. DW 3/D alongwith affidavit Ex DW 3/E

and secondly he stated that he was already

aware of this fact from Satpal Yadav about the

seizure memo and informed the court orally 867 that no recovery was effected at the instance of

 the accused persons but the police was claiming

 to have effected the recovery. In these

 circumstances there was no occasion for DW

 3 to move an application alongwith affidavit referred above at the instance of the court. It

 would have been more natural conduct if he

 had moved this application on being told by

 DW22 Satpal Yadav. In these circumstances I am

 of the opinion that DW3 Adv Rajender

 Chaudhary's testimony is not worth reliance. 

xlvii) So far DW 22 Satpal Yadav is

 concerned, he admitted during his testimony

 that court had allowed only one lawyer for

 both the accused during police custody

 remand . He claimed in chief examination that

 the police met him in this connection on 28.2.02

 late at night, in his chamber and gave him a 868 copy of recovery memo. He himself stated that

 this recovery memo was prepared by the police

 during investigation and he did not say that it

 was fabricated. He also did not say that he

 was informed by Rajender Chaudhary DW 3

 or any other advocate that this recovery memo

 was fabricated. He also does not say that after

 receipt of the recovery memo he approached

 the CJM Ghaziabad against the police to say

 that no recovery was effected in his presence

 and that he never accompanied the accused

 persons in police custody remand. 

xlviii) He testified during cross

 examination that he had received the copy of

 recovery memo at about 12 mid night in his

 chamber and he did not put time of receipt

 of the copy. DW 3 has testified that they

 had reached Ghaziabad before 11.30pm and 869 then went for medical examination of the

accused persons . So it is not possible at all

that police would reach the chamber of DW 22

at 12 mid night. At the same time if it was

after mid night why DW 22 had put the date

under his signature as 28.2.02 instead of

1.3.02. What is of utmost importance is that

DW 22 was counsel for accused Vishal Yadav

and at that time was the president of Bar but

if his testimony is believed to be correct, he

acted in irresponsible manner, as he stated that

he did no go through the contents of recovery

memo when he appended his signatures

thereon. It is unbelievable that in such a high

profile case , where the son of sitting MP

alongwith his cousin brother was accused of

the abduction and the murder of Nitish Katara,

he did not care to see the contents of the 870 document which he signed. There is nothing on

record that he was forced to sign this

document. There is also nothing on record that

he raised any objection to the police before

signing the same on the ground that it should

be signed by Adv Rajender Chaudhary who had

accompanied accused persons and the police.

Besides the conduct of this witness is equally

relevant who kept silent for five years and for

the first time in this Court deposed that he was

never present at the time of recovery. It is

held in the authority reported in 2003 (3) JCC

1952 that : Besides I find no logic for the police in giving

 copy of the seizure memo to DW 22 if he was 872 not present at the time of recovery, instead of

 serving the copy upon DW 3 Adv. Rajender

 Chaudhary who claimed to be with the accused

 persons during police custody remand.

 Besides, it was for the accused persons to have

 explained in the statement U/s 313 Cr PC as to

 which lawyer had accompanied them if not

 Satpal Yadav. recorded on 12.9.03 that advocate Satpal Singh

 Yadav was accompanying them from Ghaziabad

 alongwith the police party and accused persons.

 He was present at the time of recovery of

 hammer, watch and pointing out of the spot of

 burn of deceased Nitish Katara . He further

 stated that copy of recovery memo Ex. PW

 34/1 was received by him on the spot itself and 873 signed and made endorsement in respect of

receiving the copy on the recovery memo . To

the similar effect is the statement of PW 34

SI JK Gangwar. Both these witnesses were not

cross examined by any of the counsel for both

the accused in this regard. So inference is

drawn that this fact is admitted by the

accused persons that DW 22 had accompanied

them in police custody remand under court

orders and was present at the time of recovery.

No suggestion was given to both these

witnesses PW 34 and PW 35 that it was not

advocate Satpal but adv. Rajender Chaudhary

who had accompanied the accused persons in

police custody remand. No suggestion was given

that at mid night the copy of the recovery

memo was served upon DW 22 by the police in

his chamber. This fact also does not find 874 mention in the application Ex DW 3/D moved

 by DW3 Adv. Rajender Chaudhary that copy of

 recovery memo was served upon DW22 Satpal

 Yadav at 12 midnight in his chamber. li) Hence in view of the above

 discussion, I am of the opinion that no reliance

 can be placed in the testimony of DW 3 and

 DW 22 to the effect that it is adv. Rajender

 Chaudahry who had accompanied the accused

 persons in police custody remand and not adv.

 Satpal Yadav. From the material on record it

 stands proved that it was DW22 Satpal Yadav

 who had accompanied the accused persons

 during the police custody remand on 28/2/02

 and had signed the recovery memo Ex.PW34/1

 at the spot of recovery. lii) Next point for consideration

 is whether the recovery of hammer Ex P l and 875 the wrist watch Ex PW 7/Article A2 as claimed

 by the prosecution in furtherance of their

 disclosure statements inspire any credence. liii) The counsel for both the

 accused persons have argued that no reliance

 can be placed on the alleged recovery of

 hammer and wrist watch since the alleged

 recovery was effected from an open place. It is

 submitted that the deadbody was recovered on

 17.2.02 by PW 4 Inspt.CP Singh of PS Khurja

 Nagar alongwith PW5 Ct Mudasar Khan after

 the deadbody was spotted by PW 23 Virender

 Singh. It is submitted that the testimony of PW

 4, PW 5 and PW 23 conclusively shows that

 the search of the area around the deadbody

 was conducted and no recovery of any article

 was effected on 17.2.02. It is further submitted

 that as per the testimony of PW 4 Inspt CP 876 Singh the feet of the deadbody were towards

the East and the head towards West. It is

submitted that perusal of the photograph of the

deadbody shows that in the North West

direction there was no bush, whereas as per the

IO the recovery was effected 7 steps from the

deadbody in North West direction from bushes.

It is further submitted that the area from where

the deadbody was recovered was not put under

guard by Inspt CP Singh and since it was

open place accessible to general public,

therefore the recovery of hammer and wrist

watch from the said place after 11 days of the

recovery of deadbody does not inspire any

credence. It is submitted that PW 23 Virender

Singh stated that after the recovery of

deadbody he saw Ghaziabad police about 2

days later searching around the area where the 877 deadbody was found and this witness was not

 declared hostile by the prosecution thereafter.

 It is submitted that in view of his testimony the

 Ghaziabad police had already searched the area

 before 28.2.02 when the accused persons were

 taken there and as such the recovery of

 hammer and wrist watch from a place at a

 distance of 7 paces from the place of recovery

 of deadbody was planted upon them. In

 support of his arguments he has cited

 authorities reported in :­

''1997 Cr.LJ SC 3813 Puran Lal Vs State of UP" ''1997 Cr l. LJ Bombay page 454 ( Para 17)''

''Crimes VI 1992 (2) page 644 ( Para 9) '' 878 ''1998(1) JCC (SC) Page 57 ''

''1997 Crl. LJ 3686 Delhi "S ita Ram Vs State of

Administration (para 14)''

liv) Whereas on the other hand, the

prosecution has relied upon the following

authorities: The aforesaid authority is distinguishable from

 the present case as in the authority cited, the

 wrist watch had been concealed under the

 earth an appellant had after digging the earth

 taken out the wrist watch whereas in the 883 present case wrist watch was concealed in the

 bushes and was not beneath the earth to say

 that the earth must have sticken to the wrist

 watch. lvii) In the authority reported in 1998 (1)

 JCC (SC)page 57, it was held that 

 the recovery of money and
 ''

 wrist watch stated to be of the deceased

 were recovered by the Investigating

 Officer in presence of Amar Singh PW10 - Maternal grandfather of the deceased.

 Thus, the recovery was not in presence

 of any independent person. It was for

 this reason that the High Court did not

 think it safe to place any reliance on the

 recovery evidence. The evidence of PW5 884 Kulwinder Kaur even if believed it only

 establishes that the accused and the

 deceased left together at 5.00 PM on

 18/2/85. From that circumstance alone

 no inference can be drawn that the

 respondent had committed the murder of

 Kulwinder Singh.''

lviii) Though I fully agree with all

 the authorities cited by the defence counsel.

 However, each case has to be decided on its

 own facts and circumstances. In the authority

 reported in Puran Singh Vs State of UP the

 recovery of head and the clothes and other

 articles was effected from near the bank of

 lake and it is not mentioned in the said

 authority that the head of the deceased and

 other articles were lying concealed or were not 885 visible to others. It is obvious that if the head

 of a human being is lying on the bank of the

 lake alongwith other articles in open and that

 too at a distance of 40 paces from the

 deadbody , it would be visible to all those who

 must have collected near the deadbody and

 passed through that place. lix) The prosecution on the contrary

 has cited the latest authority of the Hon'ble

 Apex Court as well as of the Hon'ble Delhi

 High Court ie 1999(1)JCC SC 215 and 2007(2)

 SC Cases 310. above to the effect that the disclosure

 statements of the accused persons ExPW35/16

 and 17 respectively were also not signed by

 the independent witnesses as such no reliance 886 can be placed on any recovery effected in

furtherance of the same. To that effect I rely

upon an authority reported in 2003(7) Supreme

478 Parveen Kumar Vs State of Karnataka whereby it was held by Hon'ble Apex Court

that 

 ''there is no requirement of

 law that disclosure statement U/s 27 of

 the Evidence Act should always be made

 in presence of independent witnesses.'' 

 It was further held that ''

 ''
 recovery effected next day of

 making the statement would also not

 effect the prosecution case. It was held

 that normally in cases where the

 evidence led by the prosecution as to a 887 fact depends solely on the police

 witnesses, the courts seek corroboration

 as a matter of caution and not as a

 matter of rule. Thus it is only a rule of

 prudence which makes the court to seek

 corroboration from independent source

 in such cases while assessing the

 evidence of police. However, in cases

 where the court is satisfied that the

 evidence of the police can be

 independently relied upon then in such

 cases there is no prohibition in law that

 the same cannot be accepted without

 independent corroboration.''

lxi) In the other authority reported in 1999 888 (1) JCC SC 215 it was held by the Hon'ble

Apex Court U/s 27 of the Evidence Act in a

murder case that 

 " there is nothing in Section
 27 of the Evidence Act which renders the
 statement of the accused inadmissible if
 recovery of articles was made from any
 place which is ''
 open and accessible to
 others.''
 It is a fallacious notion that
 when recovery of any incriminating
 article made from a place which is open
 or accessible to others, it would vitiate the
 evidence U/s 27 of the Act. Any object
 can be concealed in places which are
 open or accessible to others. For
 example, if it is concealed beneath dry
 leaves lying on public places or kept
 hidden in a public office, the article
 would remain out of the visibility of
 others in normal circumstances. Until 889 such article is disintered its hidden state
 would remain unhampered. The person
 who hid it alone knows where it is until
 he discloses that fact to any other person.
 Hence the crucial question is not
 whether the place was accessible to
 others or not but whether it was
 ordinarily visible to others. If it is
 ordinarily visible to others then it is
 immaterial that the concealed place is
 accessible to others. ''

lxii) In the other authority cited by the

prosecution reported in 2003 (9) SCC 277 it is

held by the Hon'ble Apex Court that 

 ''the discovery statement of an

 accused leading to recovery of crime

 articles from concealed place was

 admissible even though, the discovery 890 statement and the recovery memo did not

 bear the signature of the accused. It is

 held that the recovery was in

 consequence to the information given

 fortified and confirmed by the discovery

 of the wearing apparel and skeletal

 remains of the deceased and therefore

 the information and statement cannot be

 held false.'' lxiii) The latest authority relied upon by the

prosecution on Sec. 27 and the circumstantial

evidence is reported in 2007(2) SC Cases 310

Amit Singh Bhikham Singh Thakur Vs State of

Maharashtra it is held that

 ''i
 t is fallacious to treat the " fact
 discovered" within the Section as 891 equivalent to the object produced, the fact
discovered embraces the place from which
the object is produced and the knowledge
of the accused as to this, and the
information given must relate distinctly to
this fact. The requirements of Section 27 of the Evidence Act are summed up in this
authority as follows: i The fact of which
 evidence is sought to be given must be
 relevant to the issue. It must be borne
 in mind that the provision has nothing
 to do with question of relevancy. The
 relevancy of the fact discovered must be
 established according to the
 prescriptions relating to relevancy of
 other evidence connecting it with the
 crime in order to make the fact
 discovered admissible. information received from the accused
and not by the accused's own act. iv The person giving the
information must be accused of any
offence. in consequence of information received
from an accused in custody must be
deposed to. vii Thereupon only that
portion of the information which relates
distinctly or strictly to the fact
discovered can be proved. The rest is
inadmissible." witnesses is to be appreciated . The counsel for

 the accused has placed more reliance on the

 statement of PW 4 Inspt Chander Pal Singh

 who had first reached the spot and had

 recovered the deadbody and testified that

 when he reached the spot there were about 50

 persons and thereafter people had been just

 coming and going. The land of Zahir Vakeel is

 near the place where the deadbody was lying.

 There was a tube well in the field at a

 distance of about 50 steps from the place of

 deadbody. It is submitted that in view of the

 said statement of PW4 Inspt CP Singh it stands

 proved on record that place of recovery was an

 open public place accessible to all.

lxv) Further that he has admitted in his 894 statement that he had seen the place near the

deadbody but he did not find any incriminating

article near the deadbody. It is submitted that

at the same time Ct Mudasar Khan examined

as PW5 also stated that he had seen the place

surrounding the spot. He stated that there was

no measurement as to upto how many feet

they had seen the place but police persons had

gone in one or the other direction where the

body was lying. He stated that they had seen

all around the deadbody and in his presence

nothing was recovered on that day around the

deadbody upto 15/ 20 paces. The counsel for

the accused has submitted that as per the

testimony of PW 35 SI Anil Somania the

recovery of hammer by accused Vikas Yadav

was about 6 steps from the road toward bushes

from the place pointed out by him ie a blackish 895 earthen spot on the ground where the

deceased was burnt. A little away from there

accused Vishal Yadav went into the fields and

brought a wrist watch and gave it to him. It is

submitted that no recovery was effected by CP

Singh and Ct Mudasar Khan and the other

police officers accompanying them on 17.2.02

when the deadbody was recovered though they

remained at the spot for about 5 hours . It is

submitted that as per the statement of Ct

Mudasar Khan nothing was recovered on that

day from around the deadbody upto 15/20

paces. It is submitted that in these

circumstances no reliance can be placed on the

testimony of either of PW35 SI Anil Somania

or PW34 SI JK Gangwar , who testified

that the hammer was got recovered by accused

Vikas Yadav 6 or 7 steps away from the place 896 pointed out by him of the burning of the

 deadbody and accused Vishal Yadav got

 recovered the wrist watch about 5 steps away

 from the place from where accused Vikas Yadav

 had searched and got recovered the hammer. 

lxvi) I have perused the statement of

 PW5 Ct. Mudassar Khan which shows that he

 had not deposed at all that he had searched

 the area. He simply stated that in his presence

 nothing was recovered on that day from around

 the dead body upto 15­20 paces which leads to

 the presumption that no search of the area was

 conducted on 17/2/02 by the police and nothing

 was visible. I am of the view that if the articles

 are concealed in the bushes then they cannot

 be seen from outside till bushes are searched.

 So even if police of PS Khurja remained at the

 spot for 5 hours, it is of no consequence as 897 during this period as deposed by PW4 Inspt. CP

 Singh only inquest proceedings were conducted

 at the spot and he had prepared panchnama

 Ex.PW3/2A. lxvii) The defence counsel has further

 argued that in the photographs Ex.PW 4/ 2

 & 3 of the deadbody there are no bushes

 shown at a distance of 7 paces to 12 paces,

 as such it was an open place surrounding the

 deadbody and therefore the hammer and the

 watch could not have been concealed in the

 bushes which were never there. Thus, if at all

 the hammer and wrist watch were lying near

 the deadbody at a distance of 7 to 12 paces it

 would have been visible to one and all.

 However I do not agree with the contention of

 the defence counsel to this effect as the

 photographs of the deadbody are clearly 898 showing dense bushes towards the feet of the

 deceased and there are leaves all around

 spread on the ground. The photograph Ex.

 PW 4/3 is showing bushes even on the left

 hand side of the deadbdoy of the deceased so

 it does not lie in the mouth of defence that

 there were no bushes at the spot . Even if Inspt

 CP Singh has not shown the bushes in the site

 plan Ex PW 4/4 , this can be termed as a

 faulty investigation for which no benefit can

 be given to the accused persons, particularly

 when in the photographs of the deadbody the

 bushes are clearly shown. The defence has

 not disputed the spot from where the

 deadbody was recovered, as such the

 photographs showing the spot are believed to

 be correct. lxviii) PW4 Inspt CP Singh stated during 899 cross examination that he had not shown

 bushes specifically in the siteplan Ex.PW4/4 but

 he was not suggested in his cross examination

 that there were no bushes at all at the spot. So,

 it is deemed to be admitted on the part of the

 defence that there were bushes in the area

 around the dead body. lxix) In these circumstances the

 testimony of Inspt. CP Singh that there were

 about 50 persons collected at the spot and

 people were coming and going so long they

 remained there, the place may be accessible to

 all but that by itself does not prove the

 knowledge of passersby that anything was

 concealed in the bushes. It was only within the

 special knowledge of the accused persons and it

 is only they had led the police to the spot,

 searched in the bushes and accused Vikas Yadav 900 took out hammer, whereas accused Vishal Yadav

 took out a wrist watch. If they had not

 concealed these articles then there was no

 reason for them to make a search in the bushes

 and take out the articles. It shows that it was

 only in the exclusive knowledge of the accused

 persons that these articles were hidden by them

 in the bushes. Besides, if we look into the

 normal human conduct any passersby from

 the village who will spot a wrist watch or

 the hammer would not leave it there but

 would rather pick it up and remove it from

 there. At the same time even if the place is

 accessible to all, it is a normal conduct of a

 person that he would not walk in between the

 bushes but from the path, may be kacha path

 or from the road. that at the spot there were bushes called

pattel in UP which are used for making straw

roofs ie thatched roofs and their height was

around 2 to 3 ft. His said statement finds

corroboration from the photographs of the

deadbody Ex. PW 4/2 and Ex.PW4/3

respectively. He has categorically stated that

the hammer which was got recovered by

accused Vikas Yadav from among the pattel

bushes, was not visible from the road. During

cross examination no suggestion was given to

PW 34 that there were no bushes near the

spot from where the deadbody was recovered

or that the hammer and wrist watch could be

visible to the passersby. This witness

categorically stated during cross examination

by the counsel for accused Vikas Yadav that 902 they were not able to see the earth beneath the

 bushes as the place was covered by bushes

 and no suggestion to the contrary was given to

 the witness that there were no bushes at the

 place. lxxi) Similarly the testimony of PW

 35 SI Anil Somania to the effect that there

 were bushes at the spot could not be rebutted

 by the defence despite lengthy cross

 examination. The witness categorically testified

 that the wrist watch was recovered from the

 bushes made of small wheat plants/ crop and

 there were so many such like bushes, he

 clarified that from the main road first of all

 there is kacha rasta , then bushes and then

 fields. He stated that after crossing bushes they

 went to the fields and the distance between

 the place of recovery of deadbody and place 903 from where watch was recovered was 15/20

 paces. No suggestion to the contrary was given

 to the witness by the defence counsel. 

lxxii) To the contrary I find that defence

 has admitted the presence of bushes at the spot

 even during cross examination of PW23

 Virender Singh. PW23 Virender Singh was put

 a specific question by counsel for accused Vikas

 Yadav in cross examination regarding removal

 of bushes by the police. To this effect he

 testified 

 ''I do not know if police were removing

bushes etc with dandas although police was

roaming in surrounding area''

lxxiii) Through the cross examination of

 this witness, defence has admitted presence of

 dense bushes at the spot, as otherwise there

 was no need for removal of bushes with danda. 904 At the same time through this witness it is also

 proved on record that no search was being

 conducted by the police at that time.

lxxiv) The argument of the defence

 counsel that once nothing was recovered from

 around the deadbody on 17.2.02 then how after

 11 days of the recovery of deadbody the

 hammer and wrist watch was found there in

 the bushes. To this the answer is available in

 the statement of PW 4 Inspt CP Singh who

 testified that he had seen the place near the

 deadbody and had not given any such

 instructions to the subordinate staff to search

 the area around the deadbody. lxxv) It is pertinent to mention that

 Inspt CP Singh's role cannot be equated with

 that of the IO since he had gone to the spot on

 receipt of information that a deadbody was 905 lying there and he conducted inquest

proceedings U/s 174 Cr PC only and did not

step into the shoes of the IO. Section 174 Cr

PC deals with the powers of the officer

incharge of a PS when he receives information

that a person has committed suicide or has

been killed by another or by an animal or by

machinery or by an accident or has died under

circumstances raising a reasonable suspicion

that some other person has committed an

offence, in such circumstances he shall

immediately inform the nearest Executive

Magistrate empowered to hold inquest or shall

himself proceed to the place where the body

of such deceased person is and there, in the

presence of two or more respectable inhabitant

of the neighbourhood shall make an

investigation and draw a report of the 906 apparent cause of death etc. 

lxxvi) The Officer Incharge of the PS

 U/s 174 Cr PC has only limited powers to

 ascertain whether a person has died under

 suspicion circumstance or an unnatural death

 and if so what is the apparent cause of death .

 It is so held in the authority reported in 2003

 (2) JCC 1096 , 2003(10 JCC 325. Thus in

 view of these authorities it was not expected

 of Inspt CP Singh to assume the role of

 investigating officer. lxxvii) The defence has also tried to

 shatter the prosecution case on the ground

 that as per the cross examination of PW 23

 Virender Singh, the Ghaziabad police was seen

 by him after one or two days on that spot. As

 per the prosecution PW23 had spotted the dead

 body on 17/2/02 and informed the police and 907 without any reason the defence counsel asked

him about his presence at spot after one or two

days of recovery of dead body. However, in my

opinion this statement of the witness does not

find corroboration from any other source

particularly when SI Anil Somania has

categorically denied that he did not visit the

spot except on 28.2.02. Moreover the presence

of PW23 at the spot after one or two day of

the incident is doubtful in view of his own

statement when during his cross examination he

stated ''I did not find bushes near the

deadbody'', whereas as per the photographs

Ex.PW4/2 & 3 bushes are clearly visible near

the deadbody. It is strange that this witness

noticed every other detail at the spot, such like

there were no drag marks or tyre marks or

shoe marks around the dead body which 908 normally do not occur to the onlookers, but

strangely he did not notice bushes near the

dead body that too of the height of 2/3 ft. His

such conduct shows that he was out to favour

accused persons during cross examination

particularly when he admitted in answer to

court question that he started removing people

in the crowd to see whether there were any

drag marks, boot marks or tyre marks, to find

out from where the deadbody had come and he

acted like an investigating officer. His claim in

cross examination of defence counsel that he

did not see any tyre marks, shoe marks or drag

marks at the spot is falsified by his reply to the

court question that when he removed the

crowd he only got space for putting up one

step which means there was so much of crowd

that he could not even stand properly, then 909 how could he observe that there were no marks

 as referred above. So, in my opinion the cross

 examination of this witness is of no help to the

 defence. From his testimony I also find that

 there was no reason for him to visit the spot

 after 1 or 2 days of the recovery of the dead

 body as his said statement has been recorded in

 the cross examination by the defence counsel

 and appears to be motivated. lxxviii) It is only on the basis of the

 testimony of PW23 the defence counsel has

 claimed that no tyre marks or dragging marks

 were found at the spot. The testimony of PW23

 as referred above does not inspire any credence

 and is not worth reliance. lxxix) In my opinion, in the present

 case there was no direct evidence available

 through the testimony of any eye witness who 910 had seen the deadbody being brought there by

the accused persons but the case is based on

the circumstantial evidence, so the prosecution

has not relied upon any evidence that the

accused persons had actually reached there in

some vehicle and the vehicle was driven on the

kacha path so as to leave tyre marks or since

there were three accused persons they lifted the

deadbody and threw it in the pit or dragged

the same to the pit. All these facts are within

the special knowledge of the accused persons

for which the prosecution could not have led

any evidence. Besides, as it has already come

in the testimony of official witnesses that

several persons had collected at the spot so the

possibility of the tyre marks or even the drag

marks, if are present at the spot, their being

erased cannot be ruled out. lxxx) The defence counsel has also

 argued that the testimony of both the official

 witnesses PW 34 and PW 35 who are

 witnesses to the recovery of hammer and wrist

 watch is not corroborated by any independent

 evidence. It is submitted that the evidence of

 public witnesses Raghu and Aslam has been

 intentionally withheld by the prosecution. lxxxi) However, in my opinion

 the corroboration of the testimony of official

 witnesses is required only as a rule of caution

 if it does not inspire credence. In the present

 case, the testimony of both PW 34 and PW

 35 has withstood the test of lengthy and

 confusing cross examination and in my opinion

 their testimony is worth credence and reliable. 

lxxxii) So far non­ examination of

 PWs Raghu and Aslam is concerned, the record 912 speaks itself that as per order sheet dtd.

 2.8.03 Aslam was evading service and bailable

 warrant was issued against him for 7.8.03. On

 7.8.03, as mentioned in the order sheet Raghu

 was served personally through SI BL Saxena

 but he did not appear despite service, whereas

 PW Aslam was not found at the given address

 and had changed his address. IO was directed

 to find out his new address. Bailable warrants

 were ordered to be issued against both Pws

 Raghu and Aslam. The perusal of the order

 dtd. 23.12.03 shows that an application was

 moved by the prosecution to give up PWs

 Raghu and Aslam since they were won over by

 the accused persons. lxxxiii) In view of these

 circumstances, I find there was no malafide on

 the part of the prosecution in giving up Pws 913 Raghu and Aslam. The conduct of the witnesses

 who despite coercive method failed to appear

 before the Court leads to the inference that

 either they were won over by the accused

 persons or were scared to depose against them. 

lxxxiv) Besides, the examination of

 the witnesses is the discretion of the Public

 Prosecutor representing the State. If at the stage

 of examination of the witnesses, he comes to

 know that certain persons cited by the

 investigating agency as witnesses might not

 support the prosecution case, he is at liberty to

 state before the court that fact, as held by the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the authority

 reported in 2001 Cri.LJ 511. It is held that 

 '' U/s 226 Cr.PC the public
 prosecutor has to state what evidence he
 proposes to adduce for proving the guilt 914 of the accused, when the case reaches the
 stage envisaged in Sec. 231 of the Code
 the Sessions Judge is obliged ''
 to take all
 such evidence as may be produced in
 support of the prosecution''
 . It is clear
 from the said section that the public
 prosecutor is expected to produce
 evidence ''in
 support of the prosecution''
 and not in derogation of the prosecution
 case. At the said stage the Public
 Prosecutor would be in a position to take
 a decision as to which among the persons
 cited are to be examined.''

lxxxv) In view of the above authority non

 examination of PW Raghu and Aslam is not

 fatal to the prosecution. The counsel for both

 the accused have also argued that the presence

 of Raghu and Aslam at the time of recovery is

 doubtful. Firstly, for the reason they have not 915 been examined by the prosecution as witness

 and secondly, their statement U/s 161 Cr.PC was

 not recorded on 28/2/02 but on 25/3/02. So far

 the argument of the defence counsel that the

 witnesses were not examined by the

 prosecution, this point has already been

 discussed above. At the same time, the

 contention of the defence counsel that they

 were not even present at the spot has no

 substance as their signatures are appearing in

 the recovery memo Ex.PW34/1 and it has

 already been proved on record by the

 prosecution that it was prepared at the time

 spot in the presence of DW20 adv Satpal , the

 counsel for accused Vikas Yadav. lxxxvi) The other argument of the

 defence counsel is that the hammer and wrist

 watch were planted at the spot as the IO had 916 already information before 28/2/02 about the

 spot and recovery of the dead body so he must

 have planted both these items before the

 accused were taken to the said spot on 28/2/02.

 However, to that effect the testimony of PW34

 and PW35 are relevant to be discussed. 

lxxxvii) PW34 was cross examined

 to this effect by the defence counsels but he

 categorically stated that on 21/2/02 when he

 went to the mortuary Bulandshahar on the

 instructions of PW35 SI Anil Somania to guard

 the dead body he did not ask Constable present

 in the mortuary about the place of recovery of

 deadbody. He further stated that on that day

 PW4 Inspt CP Singh met IO PW35 in the court

 of CJM Bulandshahar but PW4 did not tell the

 court in their presence about the place of

 recovery , nor in his presence Inspt CP Singh 917 told PW35 about the said place. He stated that

no talks took place between PW4 and PW35

about the place of recovery. The defence has

tried to take the statement of PW35 in support

of their defence whereby during his cross

examination recorded on 15/4/04 he stated '' I

did not know spot between 17/2/02 to 19/2/02

from where the deadbody was recovered.'' The

defence counsel has submitted that from the

aforesaid testimony of the witness it can be

inferred that after 19/2/02 he visited the spot.

However, I do not agree with the aforesaid

contention of the defence counsel as the

witness did not mean to say that after 19/2/02

he visited the spot but it appears from the

record that the question put to the witness was

such ''Did you know the spot between 17­

19/2/02 from where the dead body was 918 recovered?'' To this the witness stated he did

not know the spot between 17­19/2/02 from

where the dead body was recovered. The

witness specifically stated that he did not go to

Khurja on 17/2/02, 18/2/02 and 19/2/02 as

questioned by the defence counsel. He further

clarified that he had not seen the place of

recovery before hand and thereafter no

suggestion was given to the witness that before

28/2/02 he was already aware of the spot of

recovery of dead body and had visited the said

place. Even PW4 CP Singh from whom there

was some possibility of information being

passed on to Pw35 SI Anil Somania and PW34

SI JK Gangwar , during his cross examination

though he stated that on 19/2/02 when he had

telephonic conversation with PW35 and

thereafter on 21/2/02 when he met him in the 919 office of CJM, he had told him the place from

 where the dead body was recovered ie

 Shikarpur Road. However, he admitted that he

 had not taken the Ghaziabad police from office

 of CJM to the aforesaid place nor he had sent

 anybody. This itself shows that from where

 exactly the deadbody was recovered was not

 informed to PW35 by PW4 Inspt CP Singh. In

 general he informed PW35 that the dead body

 was recovered from Shikarpur Road. Therefore

 there is no material on record to say that SI

 Anil Somania before he was led by the accused

 persons to the spot from where the dead body

 was recovered, was aware of the said place. lxxxviii) In view of the above

 discussion in my opinion the prosecution has

 duly proved on record that the accused persons

 made disclosure statements Ex PW 35/ 16 & 17 920 voluntarily and in furtherance of the same on

28/2/02 pointed out the place of murder ie

Khurja road Bulandshahar near Aughwar

Railway station crossing vide pointing out

memo Ex.PW35/23 and thereafter accused Vikas

Yadav got recovered hammer Ex.Pl the weapon

of offence and accused Vishal Yadav got

recovered wrist watch ExPW 7/Article A2

belonging to the deceased from Shikarpur Road

from where the deadbody was recovered on

17/2/02, in the presence of their advocate DW22

Satpal Yadav. The facts discovered in

furtherance of the disclosure statements of the

accused persons Ex.PW35/16 & 17 are the

knowledge of both the accused persons about

the place of recovery. The knowledge of

accused Vikas Yadav as to where the hammer

Ex.P1 was hidden and the knowledge of Vishal 921 Yadav as to where wrist watch Ex.PW7/Article

 A2 was hidden are the facts discovered in

 furtherance of their disclosure statement and

 then recovery of both these articles at their

 instance. The recovery of these facts also prove

 that the disclosure statements Ex.PW35/16 &

 PW35/17 were made by the accused persons

 voluntarily. Moreover, nobody else had the

 knowledge that these articles were hidden in

 the bushes and it is only at their instance these

 could be recovered on 28/2/02. Even this

 circumstance the prosecution has successfully

 proved against the accused persons.

lxxxix) The defence counsel has also

 vehemently argued that though both the

 accused persons had got recovered separately

 the hammer Ex. Pl and the wrist watch Ex

 PW 7/Article A2 but the IO prepared one 922 single recovery memo in respect of both the

 recoveries which is illegal and the accused are

 thus entitled to the benefit of the same.

 However, in my opinion there is no illegality in

 preparing the joint recovery memo as the

 articles ie hammer Ex P1 and the wrist watch

 Ex. PW 7/Article A2 were got recovered

 separately by both the accused persons in

 furtherance of their respective disclosure

 statements though at the same time. No doubt,

 the IO ought have prepared separate recovery

 memos for both these articles recovered at the

 instance of accused persons which in my

 opinion is only an irregularity and not

 illegality. xc) The defence counsel Sh. KN

 Balgopal, adv has submitted that no finger

 prints were lifted from the hammer. However, 923 to this argument, adv SK Sharma has conceded

 that it is not possible to lift finger prints from

 the hammer. The other argument of Sh. KN

 Balgopal, adv that no opinion was sought from

 the doctor about the use of hammer as a

 weapon of offence and thus the benefit should

 be given to the accused. However, I find no

 force in the aforesaid argument as the witness

 was shown the hammer in the court during his

 examination and as such, his opinion about its

 use was given by him vide his testimony so it

 is not fatal for the prosecution as to why the

 hammer was not shown to the doctor at any

 earlier stage. admissibility of the circumstance of recovery of

 hammer at the instance of accused Vikas 924 Yadav is that though the hammer was sent to

 CFSL and it was reported that it was found

 containing human blood but no blood group

 was asked from the expert. It is submitted that

 if the blood group had been given by the

 expert it would have proved whether it was

 incriminating circumstance against the accused

 or not. ii) The defence counsel has further

 submitted that even the opinion of the doctor

 is to be seen about the use of hammer in

 causing injury on the person of the deceased. It

 is submitted that if the views of the doctor lead

 to different interpretation then hammer looses

 its significance and similarly whatever is

 found on the hammer also looses significance. iii) On the other hand, Spl PP

 for State has submitted that once it is proved 925 on record by the prosecution that the blood on

 the weapon of offence was human blood and

 the weapon is recovered at the instance of the

 accused, the onus by the prosecution stands

 discharged. iv) At this stage, it is important to

 note that the views of the doctor about use of

 hammer in the incident have already been

 discussed in the circumstance ie postmortem

 report and it has already been held that the

 injury on the skull of the deceased was caused

 by the said weapon. v) The prosecution in this regard has

 cited authorities reported in : PP for State on this aspect are not applicable

 to the facts of the present case as in all those

 cases there were eye witnesses to the

 commission of the crime, whereas the present 927 case is based on circumstantial evidence. It is

 submitted if the blood group is ascertained it

 clears the doubt whether it is incriminating or

 not. The defence counsel has drawn my

 attention to the letter Ex.PW 35/55 of the

 CJM Ghaziabad to the director CFSL whereby

 he was only directed to find out whether there

 was any human blood on the hammer. As

 such, in the report Ex.PW 35/57 only the

 finding given by the expert is that there is

 human blood on the hammer.. ix) It is held in the authority 1999 3SCC 507 State of Rajasthan Vs Teja Ram by

 the Hon'ble Apex Court that: Keeping in mind the aforesaid authority, in the

present case also only the blood group has not

been given by the expert of Biology Division

though it has already come on record that the

blood on the hammer was human blood. As

such no benefit of the same can be given to the

accused. and relied upon in the authority 2001 CrLJ 487

Gura Singh Vs State of Rajasthan . In this case

a blood stained chaddar (sheet) belonging to

the appellant and kassi weapon of offence on

the basis of the voluntary disclosure statements

of the appellant were made. The appellant gave

the information about the chaddar and

produced the same which was hidden by him

in his house kept in a picture and was found to

be stained with human blood. It was held by

the Hon'ble Apex Court that both the trial as

well as the High Court rightly held that the

prosecution has succeeded in proving the

making of the disclosure statements by the

appellants and consequent discovery of the

weapon of offence at his instance. It was held

that the serologist and chemical examiner to

the Govt of India found chaddar (sheet) and 932 other items to be stained with human blood,

however, the origin of the blood stains on the

items ie pair of shoes and kassi could not be

determined on account of disintegration with

the lapse of time. The authority reported in State of Rajasthan Vs Teja Ram was relied

upon which has already been discussed above

and where it was held that ''failure of serologist

to detect the origin of blood due to

disintegration of the serum in the meantime

does not mean that the blood stuck on the

weapon of offence would not have been human

blood at all. It was further held that such guess

work that the blood would be of some other

origin ie animal blood is unrealistic and far

fetched in the broad spectrum of this case. It

was held that the effort of the criminal court

should not be prowl for imaginative doubts. 933 Unless the doubt is of a reasonable dimension

 which a judicially conscientious mind

 entertains with some objectivity, no benefit can

 be claimed by the accused.'' xii) Similarly, in the authority

 reported in 2002(6) Supreme 10 Moti Ram

 Gaman Pawar Vs State of Maharashtra whereby it is held that 

 ''one of such circumstance
 explained is that the blood
 stained clothes of the appellant
 and the knife recovered at his
 instance has not been proved to
 be having the blood stains of
 group 'B' the blood group of the
 deceased. The report of the
 forensic science laboratory
 indicated that the clothes of the
 appellant and the knife recovered
 at his instance were having
 human blood, the group of which 934 could not be ascertained on
 account of disintegration of the
 blood spots''. xiii) In view of the above

authorities, I am of the opinion that merely for

the reason that blood group of the human blood

found on the hammer ExP1 was not ascertained,

it does not give a reason to hold that any chain

in the aforesaid circumstance of discovery of fact

against the accused persons is missing. 

➔ IDENTIFICATION OF THE WRIST WATCH i) The defence counsel has argued

 that the recovery of the wrist watch

 Ex.PW7/Article A2 at the instance of accused

 Vishal Yadav is immaterial since there is no

 evidence on record that deceased was wearing 935 wrist watch when he attended the marriage of

Shivani Gaur and was allegedly abducted from

the Diamond Palace. Further that the test

identification of the wrist watch conducted by

PW7 Sh.Ram Lakhan, Spl Executive Magistrate

also does not inspire any credence since the

watches mixed up with the watch

Ex.PW7/Article A2 were of different makes and

shapes which enabled the witness to read the

particular name since the watch was planted by

her and the police. Further that Nitin Katara the

brother of deceased Nitish Katara was not made

to identify the wrist watch in the presence of

the Magistrate and in the Trial Court he

showed his inability to identify the watch. The

defence counsel Sh. SK Sharma,adv argued that

the TIP of the watch is diluted when the

Magistrate holding the parade says that the 936 watches to be mixed up might have been

shown to the witness before she came to the

court. The defence counsel has further

submitted that the introduction and planting of

the watch is result of conspiracy between the

complainant and the police. It is submitted that

as per SI Anil Somania the IO, he had gone to

PS Khurja on 19/2/02 and obviously he must

have asked the police there about the

photographs of the dead body, the mobile or

the gold chain found there. When he did not

get a positive reply, he , higher officials and the

complainant must have made a plan to create

evidence for identification of the deceased and

for this reason they had kept this watch with

them with the intention to plant on one of the

accused whenever arrest is effected. It is further

submitted that this conspiracy was hatched by 937 the police and the complainant on 20/2/02 and

 for this reason the fact of wrist watch was

 inserted in the statement of Smt. Neelam Katara

 but they could not record therein that she

 could identify watch if shown to her since the

 police did not have the space to write the

 above said fact. It is further submitted that bill

 of the wrist watch Ex.PW7/Article A2 has not

 been produced by the complainant to prove

 that it was owned by Nitish Katara. ii) On the other hand the prosecution has

 claimed that the watch has been properly

 identified by Smt. Neelam Katara before the

 PW7 Sh.Ram Lakhan, Spl Executive Magistrate

 that she has categorically stated in her

 testimony about the identification of the watch

 and also that there is no manipulation on the

 record of the police such like addition of wrist 938 watch in the statement of Smt.Neelam Katara.

 Regarding the fact that Nitin Katara was not

 made to identify the watch it is submitted that

 the identification of watch by Neelam Katara

 was enough to prove that this watch was

 belonging to the deceased and he had gone to

 the marriage wearing the same. The Spl.PP for

 State has further argued that to the contrary it

 is the defence who has tried to mislead the

 court by producing morphed photographs

 Ex.PW6/D3 & D4 showing the deceased wearing

 a round watch with a metallic chain. iii) I have carefully considered the

 submissions of both the parties. To this effect the testimony of PW30 Neelam

Katara is important. In her chief examination she

testified that when her son left he was wearing

red colour kurta churidaar pajama and a shawl . 939 He was having one wrist watch , one gold chain

and a pendant with tiger claws which Bharti had

given him and was carrying a mobile phone. She

categorically stated that her son was wearing a

wrist watch make Esprit. She stated that she

remember about the watch very clearly because it

was presented to him in December 2001 by Bharti

and she had argued with him not to accept costly

presents from her. She further testified on page 1

of her further chief examination dtd 1/5/03, that

she was called for identification of wrist watch

which Nitish was wearing on the date of

marriage of Shivani ie on 16/2/02 . She had

identified the wrist watch of her son in April

2002 and had signed document Ex.PW7/3 dtd

2/4/02 at the time of identification of the wrist

watch. She then identified the wrist watch in the

court shown to her from the sealed parcel that it 940 was the same watch which Nitish was wearing

and she had identified on 2/4/02. During her

cross examination she denied the suggestion of

Adv Sh. SK Sharma on behalf of accused Vishal

Yadav that her son had gone to the marriage

wearing a round watch having metallic chain. It

is important to note that during her cross

examination she was shown a photograph

Ex.PW6/D3 and she denied the suggestion that

her son was wearing a round wrist watch as in

the photograph of marriage Ex.PW6/D3. She

further denied that her son was wearing a watch

with metal chain. She stated that watch which

her son was wearing was square watch which she

had identified. Regarding the identification of the

wrist watch before PW7, she was put a specific

question which is reproduced as follows : During his testimony before the court Nitin

 categorically testified that he reached Delhi on

 18/2/02 around 6am on getting the news of his

 brother being kidnapped from Ghaziabad on the 944 intervening night of 16­17/2/02 by the accused

 persons, the brothers of Bharti Yadav. He stated

 that his mother had told him that his brother

 had left for wedding wearing red colour kurta,

 white churidaar pajama and shawl, thereafter he

 went to the room of his brother to find out

 what other things he might have taken alogwith

 him. He found his Blue eye Samsung and his

 watch make Esprit missing. He testified that the

 aforesaid watch was gifted by Bharti to Nitish

 and this fact he was told by Nitish when he

 came to Delhi during vacations in December

 2001. vii) The argument of the defence counsel as

 to why his mother only told him about the

 clothes the deceased was wearing when he left

 the house and not about other belongings and

 why Nitin went to the room to find out the 945 missing articles, it is submitted that this shows

that the watch was lateron planted upon the

accused Vishal Yadav. I find no force in this

argument as the condition of Smt. Neelam

Katara whose son was missing for the past two

days with no information as to where and in

what condition he was, can be very well

realised, so in my opinion it was natural for her

to have not disclosed each and every detail to

Nitin Katara since she was not in fit state of

mind, as she had claimed in her testimony that

she was under stress and tense and did not

make a detailed statement even before the

police. Similarly, it was natural on the part of

the brother to find out from the belongings of

the deceased as to what else was missing from

the house which could have helped them in

tracing the deceased. viii) The argument of the defence

 counsel that the prosecution has not produced

 any bill of the wrist watch is of no

 consequence as both PW30 Neelam Katara and

 PW39 Nitin Katara have stated that this was a

 gift by Bharti Yadav to Nitish Katara and

 everyone is aware of, the gifts are never

 accompanied by the bills. No suggestion was

 given to Neelam Katara or even to Nitin Katara

 that the wrist watch was never gifted to Nitish

 Katara by Bharti Yadav. The other contention

 of the defence counsel that PW38 Bharti Yadav

 has denied having gifted the watch to Nitish is

 of no consequence as the reasons for her being

 hostile are already discussed as she was not in

 her own self but under pressure of her family.

 Besides, no suggestion was given either to PW30

 Neelam Katara or PW39 Nitin Katara that Nitish 947 never told them that this watch was gifted by

 Bharti. PW30 Neelam Katara has categorically

 stated that she had told Nitish not to accept

 such costly gifts from Bharti and her statement

 is not rebutted in cross examination. The

 testimony of Neelam Katara finds corroboration

 from the testimony of PW7 Sh.Ram Lakhan

 Singh, SEM, Ghaziabad. ix) Prosecution has examined PW7 Sh.

 Ram Lakhan Singh, SEM Ghaziabad who was

 authorised to conduct TIP of persons as well as

 of property. He testified that on 2/4/02 he

 received written request Ex.PW7/1 from SO PS

 Kavi Nagar for getting TIP of wrist watch. Wrist

 watch was produced before him in sealed

 condition alongwith specimen seal Ex.PW7/2. He

 stated after the identification proceedings were

 over, he sealed the wrist watch with his seal. 948 Then he was shown the sealed parcel bearing

 his seal in the court, which was opened and

 wrist watch Ex.PW7/Article A2 was identified by

 him in the court. He testified that he had called

 for five similar watches which were brought by

 contractor RM Agarwal, the authorised

 contractor of his office. He mixed these watches

 with the watch in question and thereafter called

 Ms Neelam Katara in his office She correctly

 identified watch PW7/Article A2 and he

 prepared the memo of proceedings of

 identification Ex.PW7/3. He proved his

 signatures thereon at point A, the signatures of

 Neelam Katara at point B, signatures of

 contractor at point C and of APO at point D. x) Keeping in view the submission of the

 defence counsel, I have gone through the entire

 testimony of PW7 Sh. Ram Lakhan Singh, SEM 949 but I find no infirmity in the TIP proceedings.

The contention of the defence counsel that

SEM says that watches to be mixed up with the

watch might have been shown to witness does

not find mention in the statement of PW7. To

the contrary he stated that since he was not

outside his court so he could not say if the

watches brought by contractor were shown to

the witness or not. This statement of PW7 does

not mean that watches were shown to PW30

Neelam Katara. Particularly, when PW7 Sh. Ram

Lakhan Singh stated that contractor brought

watches in bundle which was opened in his

presence in the court. Besides, no suggestion

was given to PW 30 Neelam Katara to this

effect. However, she denied the suggestion that

she had given watch to IO to plant. PW7 Sh.

Ram Lakhan Singh, SEM during cross 950 examination testified that he did not show the

watch to the contractor and told him to bring

rectangular, square and round watches and did

not tell him the make of the watches or about

colour or strap or chain. Defence counsel has

stated that identical watches were not mixed up

with the watch in question, as such it was easy

for PW30 Neelam Katara to identify the watch.

However, PW30 Neelam Katara has stated she

took time to identify watch and also stated that

all were not of the same type, some of them

may be of same. She stated that she had not

counted how many of them were same. She

was not given any suggestion that all the

watches were neither similar nor identical. Thus,

I find the watch PW7/Article A2 was correctly

identified by her before PW7 Sh. Ram Lakhan

Singh, SEM Ghaziabad. xi) It is important to note that during the

 cross examination of this witness, the

 photographs Ex.PW6/D3 and D4 were shown to

 the witness and an observation was made by

 my Ld. Predecessor to the following effect : She appeared in the witness box and testified

 that she was running a photo studio in the

 name of Quality Photo Service. Her employee

 Vijay had gone to Diamond Palace for taking

 still photographs and videography of the

 marriage of Shivani Gaur on the night

 intervening 16­17/2/02. After taking photographs

 and preparing video Vijay handed her over the

 negatives of the same and then she prepared

 album of the photographs and handed over the 954 album alongwith negatives to the concerned

 family. She testified that police had taken

 positives of some photographs of the marriage.

 During her evidence she was shown the

 photographs Ex.PW6/2, PW6/3 & PW6/4 which

 she admitted were given by her to the police

 and she proved the negatives of these

 photographs collectively Ex.PW6/5 which were

 taken out of a sealed cloth and opened in the

 presence of the witness. Her said testimony

 proves that Ex.PW6/2 was the original copy

 prepared from one of the negatives part of

 Ex.PW6/5. xv) However, during cross examination by

 defence counsel this witness testified that apart

 from the photographs exhibited in the court she

 had brought 3­4 other positive prints which

 were not put in the album of the party as she 955 did not consider them good. At the same time

 she testified that she did not have the negatives

 of those photographs. During cross examination

 she produced these photographs as Ex.PW6/D1

 to D4. Now out of these three photographs the

 defence has tried to prove on record that

 photographs Ex.PW6/D3 is the original

 photograph whereas PW6/D4 is its enlarged

 copy and PW6/2 contains amendments

 regarding the wrist of the boy standing wearing

 red kurta. xvi) It is important to note firstly the

 conduct of PW6 as to why and at whose

 instance she prepared the photograph

 Ex.PW6/D1 to D4 and why did she bring them

 alongwith her when she was summoned as a

 prosecution witness as there were no directions

 to her from the court to produce any 956 photograph from her photo studio clicked at the

marriage of Shivani Gaur. The reason is obvious

that at the instance of accused persons she

produced these photographs. Whether these are

genuine photographs there is no evidence on

record, since PW6 admitted that there were no

negatives of these photographs. Her said

statement is not believable as once these

photographs were clicked at the marriage of

Shivani Gaur then where are the negatives of

these photographs. The witness has neither

claimed that she had lost the negatives nor that

these negatives were handed over to the family

of Shivani Gaur. She simply stated that she did

not have the negatives of these photographs.

She has admitted that these photographs were

not placed on the album then obviously the

negatives of these also must not have been 957 handed over to the concerned party.

xvii) It is further important to notice

 that this witness was allowed to be re­examined

 by the Spl.PP since she produced these

 photographs on record in cross examination.

 During her cross examination by the Spl.PP she

 admitted that she had prepared Ex.PW6/D1 to

 D4 after the police had taken away the three

 negatives ExPW6/5 and she prepared these

 photographs from positive to positive. She has

 not given any explanation as to where was the

 necessity for her to prepare the photographs

 from positive to positive and at whose instance

 particularly when she had not placed these

 photographs in the album, since as per her

 chief examination these were not good

 photographs. The conduct of this witness itself

 shows that these photographs were manipulated 958 by her at the instance of accused persons and

 she intentionally brought these photographs to

 court without even being asked to produce the

 same. Now in the light of the testimony of PW6

 the evidence of DW15 Vikram Garg and DW16

 Mahender Sharma is to be appreciated . 

xviii) DW15 Vikram Garg testified

 that he had diploma in Camera and Lighting

 and post graduate diploma in advertising and

 marketing which includes art and production

 which means designing and post production. He

 explained that the post production means

 designing, editing in the photographs and other

 clip arts. he was shown the photographs

 Ex.PW6/2, 6/D3 &D4 and he was asked to tell

 the difference in these three photographs. He

 replied that Ex.PW6/D3 is the original

 photograph and its enlarged copy is Ex.PW6/D4 959 whereas in photograph Ex.PW6/2 some

 amendments were made in the photograph on

 the wrist of the boy standing wearing red kurta.

 He further testified that in the first photograph

 Ex.PW6/D3 the boy in red kurta is wearing

 wrist watch in his left hand which is not

 appearing in the photograph Ex.PW6/2, as such

 it was a copy and not the original. Before I

 proceed to discuss the cross examination of this

 witness by SPP for State it is important to note

 that when PW6 Archana Sharma appeared in

 the witness box and proved the photographs

 Ex.PW6/2 to 4 from the negatives Ex.PW6/5 no

 suggestion was given to the witness that

 photograph Ex.PW6/2 was not prepared from

 the negative or was not the original photograph

 or that it was morphed. xix) What is important to note is that 960 during cross examination DW15 Vikram Garg

 admitted that with naked eye he could not say

 whether photograph Ex. PW6/D3 was prepared

 from negative or is a digital photo. He stated

 that he have to scan it to prove them. He

 further admitted that this photograph was not

 clicked in his presence nor its enlarge copy

 Ex.PW6/D4 was prepared in his presence. He

 also admitted that merely on seeing the

 photograph Ex.PW6/2 he could not say if it is

 prepared from negative or digitally. When in

 the court he was shown three negatives

 Ex.PW6/5 collectively, he admitted that PW6/2

 was prepared from the negative encircled green.

xx) During his cross examination, it is

 observed that Mr. GK Bharti, whispered

 something in the ear of the witness and the

 witness immediately took a somersault and 961 stated that the negative shown to him was

small in size and since in all the photographs

four persons were appearing so he cannot state

from which negative photograph Ex.PW6/2 was

prepared. It appears that this witness was

produced in defence only to mislead the court

to believe that photograph PW6/2 was not the

original but a copy with some amendments

whereas the defence wanted the court to

believe that the photograph Ex.PW6/D3 was the

original so as to say that in this photograph

and in its enlarged copy PW6/D4 the deceased

was seen wearing a round wrist watch with

metallic chain. However the defence has failed

in its design as their own witness could not say

if the photograph Ex.PW6/D3 was prepared

from the negative or from the original or was

digital photo, so this witness could not create 962 any doubt that the photograph Ex.PW6/2 was

not the original but contained amendments. It

seems that this witness had appeared only to

give his opinion as to which is original

photograph and which is the copy of the

original containing amendments, however his

opinion is not acceptable to the court firstly

because he is not an expert witness in terms of Sec. 45 of the Evidence Act, secondly, there is

no evidence on record that the witness had

already done his homework and compared the

photographs Ex.PW6/2 with PW6/D3 and D4

respectively. I fail to understand as to how he

stated in chief examination that PW6/2 was

containing some amendments and that

Ex.PW6/D3 was the original and PW6/D4 was

its enlarged copy, when in his cross

examination he admitted that merely on seeing 963 the photograph Ex.PW6/2 he could not even say

if it was prepared from the negative or was

digital nor he could say that PW 6/D3 and

6/D4 were prepared from the negatives in his

presence. Besides, it is important to note that

this witness had admitted that he had seen all

these photographs Ex.PW6/2, PW6/D3 & D4 for

the first time in the court. He has also admitted

in answer to the court question that the

jewellery or anything can be added or deleted

from the photograph by editing. As such I am

of the view that the photographs Ex.PW6/D3 &

D4 were morphed photographs to show that the

deceased Nitish Katara was not wearing Esprit

watch at the time of marriage of Shivani Gaur

but was wearing a round watch with metallic

chain. The photograph Ex.PW6/2 clearly shows

that no wrist watch was visible in the hands of 964 the deceased in the photograph. The photograph

 Ex.PW6/D3 & D4 have been introduced by the

 defence to mislead the court. xxi) The argument of the defence

 counsel that the watch Esprit was planted upon

 the accused, is again of no consequence, as

 there is no answer from the defence to the

 question as to why would the investigating

 agency plant the Esprit watch and make

 amendment in the photograph Ex.PW6/2. If at

 all in the photograph Ex.PW6/2 some wrist

 watch of round shape with metallic chain was

 appearing, then without any amendment of the

 photograph that type of watch could also be

 planted by the police. It appears from the

 record that the accused persons have played

 some mischief in introducing the photograph

 Ex.PW6/D3 by manipulating it as it is observed 965 by the court during the recording of the

testimony of Neelam Katara that DW16

Mahender Sharma who had enlarged the

photograph before the court admitted that he

could manipulate the photo in any manner and

that it is well known that software in the name

of Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Premier etc are

available in the market and that these softwares

can make any manipulation with the photo,

clothes, colour can be changed, face expressions

can be changed, not only wrist watch even

shackles can be shown on the hands and legs

of the person in photo. When he appeared as

DW16 this witness admitted that there is

difference in the photograph Ex.PW6/2 and

PW6/D3 and PW6/D4 and he admitted that he

had only prepared enlarged photograph

Ex.PW6/D4 from Ex.Pw6/D3. So this witness is 966 of no help to the defence. To the contrary

 through the testimony of this witness coupled

 with the testimony of DW15 and the

 observations made by the court during the

 testimony of PW30 Neelam Katara it is proved

 on record that the accused persons to mislead

 the court fabricated the photograph Ex.PW6/D3

 and then to further mislead the court got

 prepared its enlarged photograph Ex.PW6/D4 in

 the court to impress upon the court that this is

 the original photograph whereas Ex.PW6/2 is

 photograph containing amendments. To the

 contrary prosecution has proved that

 photograph Ex.PW6/2 has its negative on the

 record but PW6/D3 is without any negative. 

xxii) Even PW15 Vijay Kumar who had

 taken the photographs in the marriage of

 Shivani Gaur and has been examined as a 967 prosecution witness tried to favour the defence

by deposing that he had clicked the

photographs Ex.PW6/D3 and PW6/D4 in the

marriage of Shivani Gaur. However, he has not

clarified on what basis he could claim that he

had clicked these photographs. The veracity of

this witness is tested by the court question

where he admitted that he did not remember if

prior to 16/2/02 or after 16/2/02 he had taken

photos in any marriage. As per his chief

examination he only clicked photographs for

PW6 Archana Sharma and used to handover the

photos and reels to her. In such circumstance it

becomes more difficult to say by the witness

which photograph was clicked, when and in

whose marriage. He admitted that he did not

see the album of this marriage. Then how could

he say that these photographs were clicked in 968 the marriage of Shivani Gaur. What is

 important about his testimony is that he

 admitted that from positive print also other

 positive print can be prepared though he could

 not say if through the computer there can be

 manipulation in the photo. Though he is a

 photographer but he could not distinguish

 between the photographs shown to him if they

 were made from negative or prepared on

 computer or from the positive. Again for want

 of negatives of PW6/D3 &D4, this witness is of

 no help to the defence. xxiii) Besides, no suggestion was

 given to the IO or to the complainant PW30

 that the photograph Ex.PW6/2 was manipulated

 and Esprit wrist watch was planted upon the

 accused Vishal Yadav. xxiv) From the above discussion it 969 stands proved on record that the wrist watch

 Esprit as testified by PW Neelam Katara was

 worn by the deceased at the time of marriage

 and it was got recovered by accused Vishal

 Yadav on 28/2/02 in furtherance of his

 disclosure statement Ex.PW35/17 and it was

 correctly identified by Smt. Neelam Katara in

 the TIP proceedings Ex. PW7/3. Defence has

 miserably failed to create any doubt in the

 mind of the court in this regard. the accused persons in the commission of crime

 is concerned, the prosecution has claimed that

 on 16.2.02, the accused persons came in a Tata

 Safari bearing registration No. PB 07H 0085

 to the Diamond Palace to attend the marriage 970 of PW11 Shivani Gaur and after abduction of

Nitish Katara they took him away in this

vehicle. The prosecution has relied upon the

evidence of PW 28 Ct. Inderjeet Singh, PW

32 Ct. Satender Pal Singh and PW 33 Ajay

Kumar to this effect. Regarding the recovery of

the aforesaid vehicle, the prosecution has

relied upon the evidence of PW 34 SI JK

Gangwar and PW 35 SI Anil Somania besides

PW 27 Sultan Singh. To the contrary the

defence has claimed that the aforesaid vehicle

was under repair with Nawab Motors from the

morning of 16.2.02 and it is only on 10.3.02

the vehicle was delivered by Nawab Motors

after repairs and as such the use of this

vehicle in the alleged commission of offence

was impossible. To this effect defence has

examined DW2 Madhu Mohan Nair and DW7 971 Shaktichand. It is further claimed that the

 accused persons had gone to Diamond Palace to

 attend the marriage of Shivani Gaur in black

 Mercedes and to this effect the defence has

 relied upon the statements of PW 43 Bhawna

 Yadav and DW 12 Sh Ashok Gandhi. whether the prosecution has been able to prove

 on record that the accused persons had come to

 Diamond Palace in the aforesaid vehicle and

 abducted person was removed in the said

 vehicle from Diamond Palace. It is the

 prosecution case that the accused persons with

 the deceased Nitish Katara were spotted

 outside the Diamond Palace by PW 28 Ct.

 Inderjeet Singh, PW 32 Ct. Satender Singh. No

 doubt PW 28 Ct. Inderjeet Singh has not 972 fully supported the prosecution case with

regard to the fact that he had seen the

deceased Nitish Katara in the company of the

accused persons while he was on duty at

Chetak 13 T point near Diamond Palace but

so far the presence of accused persons at T

point Diamond Palace and the presence of

Nitish Katara in a high roof vehicle Safari is

concerned, he has categorically stated around

12/12.15 am he had checked car of the accused

persons at the place where he was on duty

and during court questions he admitted hat he

had seen Nitish Katara in high roof vehicle

Safari around 12.30 am and this witness was

not cross examined on behalf of either of the

accused. Nodoubt, this witness did not state

that deceased Nitish Katara was travelling

alongwith the accused persons in Tata Safari 973 but the presence of vehicle Tata Safari has

 not been disputed by the accused persons as

 this witness was not cross examined at all. iii) The other important witness to

 this effect is PW 32 Ct. Satender Singh who

 has categorically stated as follows: iv) From the aforesaid testimony it is

 crystal clear that the accused persons had

 come to join the marriage of Shivani Gaur in a

 Tata Safari as they were checked at T point

 Diamond Palace by PW 32 Ct Satender Pal

 Singh in the company of PW 28Ct Inderjeet

 Singh. v) During cross examination of this

 witness by Spl. PP for State he stated that he

 did not note down the registration number but

 registration number was of Punjab. It is

 pertinent to note that the Tata Safari recovered

 from AB Coltex Karnal at the instance of

 accused was also bearing the registration No. of

 Punjab ie PB 07H 0085. This witness was

 subjected to lengthy cross examination by the

 defence counsel. However, no suggestion was 975 given to the witness that accused were not

seen in Tata Safari nor any suggestion was

given that the accused persons had visited

Diamond Palace on that night in black

Mercedes. The witness was confronted with

his statement U/s 161 Cr. PC to the effect that

it was not mentioned in his statement that it

was Tata Safari which was stopped there but

the witness categorically stated that he had

told SI Anil Somania on 4.3.02 that it was

Tata Safari which was stopped there in which

the accused persons were travelling. Once the

witness has stated that he had informed the IO

about the fact that accused persons were seen

in Tata Safari, it was the duty of the defence

counsel to ask the IO as to why he did not

record this fact in the statement of the witness

U/s 161 Cr PC. It is only the IO who could 976 have explained whether this witness had made

 any such statement to him or not. However,

 no such suggestion or question in this regard

 was put by the defence counsel to the IO, as

 such the presumption is that whatever the

 witness stated i e he had told the IO that it

 was Tata Safari which was stopped in which

 the accused persons were travelling, is correct.

 There is no evidence on record that this witness

 was enmical towards accused persons and

 would make false statement against them. vi) The other important witness

 regarding the presence of the accused persons

 in Tata Safari alongwith the deceased is PW 33

 Ajay Kumar whose evidence has already

 been discussed above. This witness

 categorically stated that on the intervening

 night of 16/17­02­02 after meeting Subhash 977 while he was returning to Delhi from

Ghaziabad on his scooter it went out of order

and stopped at the crossing of Hapur Chungi,

from his left side from behind one Tata Safari

vehicle came which was driven by accused

Vikas Yadav, who told him in uncivilised

manner to remove the scooter from the road

and then he went to his vehicle Tata Safari and

saw four persons therein, out of which he

knew three of them i.e. accused Vikas Yadav

s/o Sh DP Yadav and accused Vishal Yadav

s/o Sh Kamal Raj Yadav and third person is

stout Pehalwan Sukhdev Yadav and the fourth

person was not known to him who was

wearing a red kurta and a shawl. This witness

was also subjected to lengthy cross examination.

However, no suggestion was given to him that

he had not seen the accused persons at Hapur 978 Chungi alongwith the deceased Nitish Katara

 in a Tata Safari. No suggestion was given to

 the witness that the accused persons were not

 seen in the company of the deceased in any

 vehicle including Tata Safari. Thus in my

 opinion the prosecution has successfully

 proved on record through reliable and cogent

 evidence that the accused persons had used

 Tata Safari in the alleged commission of offence

 on 16/17­02­02. though denied the suggestion of the prosecution

 that in her statement U/s 161 Cr. PC she had

 informed the police that on that day her

 brothers and Sukhdev Pehalwan had come in

 the marriage in Tata Safari and was confronted

 with her statement Mark PW 38/A Ex.PW 979 35/AB, however in her further cross examination

 by Spl. PP for State she did not deny

 specifically that the accused persons had taken

 away Nitish Katara from the marriage place in

 Tata Safari. It is not possible that Nitish

 Katara who was so close to Bharti Yadav

 and they were planning to get married, was

 not even aware of the fact in which vehicle

 the accused persons had come to Diamond

 Palace and took away the deceased Nitish

 Katara. At the same time it is important to

 note that during cross examination of this

 witness it was not suggested by the defence

 counsel that the accused persons had come to

 the marriage hall in black Mercedes. viii) Thus in my opinion the use

 of Tata Safari in the commission of crime has

 been proved by the prosecution beyond 980 reasonable doubt. Now it is to be seen

 whether the accused persons were able to

 create any doubt or disproved this fact by

 leading any cogent evidence that they had

 come to the marriage hall in black Mercedes

 and not in Tata Safari bearing registration No.

 PB 07H 0085 and that Tata Safari was lying

 with Nawab Motors from 10:45 am on

 16.2.02 till 10.3.02. Before I proceed to discuss

 the testimony of the defence witnesses, it is

 necessary to peruse the statements of the

 accused persons U/s. 313 Cr PC. ix) So far accused Vikas Yadav is

 concerned, in his statement U/s 313 Cr PC he

 denied the use of Tata Safari. The two

 relevant questions put to him alongwith their

 answers are reproduced as follows: xi) The perusal of disclosure statement 983 Ex PW 35/16 made by accused Vikas Yadav

 to IO SI Anil Somania shows that in this

 statement he disclosed about the use of Tata

 Safari. Similarly in the disclosure statement of

 accused Vishal Yadav Ex.PW 35/17 the use of

 Tata Safari in the alleged commission of offence

 finds mention. xii) The accused persons examined

 two witnesses DW2 Madhu Mohan Nair and

 DW3 Shaktichand to prove that at the time of

 alleged commission of offence Tata Safari

 bearing registration No. PB 07H 0085 was

 with Nawab Motors at E 11 Sector 11 Noida.

 The other related witnesses examined by the

 defence are DW 8 Gaurav Agarwal and DW

 11 Ombir Singh. xiii) DW2 Madhumohan Nair, an

 employee of Nawab Motors testified that it is 984 authorised workshop from Tata Motors for Tata

Motor vehicles and is a private limited

concern. The workshop is working under the

supervision of Tata Motors. He produced the

record pertaining to vehicle No. PB 07H 0085

Tata Safari. He also produced the history of

the aforesaid vehicle and the gate pass. He

testified that since 3.4.01 this vehicle was being

taken care of by their concern regularly. The

vehicle also came to the workshop on 4.1.02

and thereafter on 16.2.02. He stated that

thereafter the vehicle never came to the

workshop in the year 2002. He stated that on

16.2.02 the vehicle was received in Nawab

Motors at 10.49 am , the job card was

prepared and the vehicle was taken for service

as well as for repairs. He stated that it took 3

to 4 days for repairs . The Vehicle was 985 delivered back on 10.3.02. The gate pass was

 prepared. He produced the computerised vehicle

 history Ex. DW 2/A and the photo copy of

 the gate pass Ex. DW 2/B subject to filing of

 the office copy/ attested copy of the same. The

 witness when examined on 5.7.07 did not

 produce the register containing entries

 regarding gate pass. He was directed to produce

 the same but he did not produce the same. xiv) He stated that the requisition for

 the motor parts which are required to be used

 for repairs is sent from Nawab Motors to Tata

 Motors and the same is always reflected in the

 vehicle history card. Further that they also

 maintain a store of Tata Motor parts in

 Nawab Motors. He stated that the contents of

 job card also reflect in the computer in the

 history of the vehicle. The vehicle referred 986 above remained with Nawab Motors from 16.2.02

 10:49 am till 10.3.02. During this period the

 vehicle never went out of Nawab Motors nor

 was handed over to anyone. He stated that

 the requisitions of the different parts were sent

 till 18.2.02 as reflected in Ex.DW 2/A. The job

 card was preserved in the computer and that is

 reflected in final computer statement which is

 Ex DW 2/A. He testified that the trial/ test

 drive of a vehicle is always taken after the

 repair of the vehicle is complete and the test

 drive is taken by the supervisor alongwith the

 mechanic. He testified that the test drive of

 this vehicle was performed after 18.2.02. xv) Perusal and appreciation of the

 testimony of this witness shows that he did not

 give the exact date when the vehicle was

 ready for delivery. He simply stated that the 987 test drive of the vehicle was performed after

 18.2.02 and as per his testimony the test drive is

 always taken after the repair of the vehicle is

 complete. xvi) This witness categorically

 mentioned that the mode of the payment of

 the repairs of the vehicle was in cash as the

 company only accepts cash. However, the bill

 against which the payment was made by the

 party was not produced by him. He produced

 only computerised generated bill. He claimed

 to have sent the requisition for the parts to

 store room and he also claimed that as per

 his knowledge all the parts which were used

 in the vehicle for repairs were received from

 the store of Nawab Motors but he did not

 produce the store register or the stock

 register to substantiate his claim. 988 xvii) He also admitted that in the

 history of the vehicle Ex.DW 2/A the amount

 charged for each part was not mentioned. 

xviii) He admitted that when the vehicle

 enters the gate, the number of the vehicle is

 mentioned in the register maintained by the

 guard at the gate but no such register was

 produced to prove the entry of the vehicle

 in Nawab Motors. xix) He admitted that initially when

 the vehicle enters the gate service adviser

 prepares the job card on a plain slip and then

 this slip is given to the computer incharge in

 the workshop who takes out a printed job card

 from the computer and the copy of the same is

 given to the customer. xx) He admitted that on the

 initial job card / the slip the name of the 989 customer, address and telephone number is

 mentioned and the same also bears the

 signature of the service adviser. Service adviser

 also discloses the approximate cost of the

 repairs and time of delivery after repairs but

 the initial job card was not produced in the

 court. xxi) In answer to the questions of

 prosecutor as to who brought the vehicle to

 the workshop, he stated that it was brought by

 the driver but he did not know his name.

xxii) He admitted that the gate pass is

 issued by the person who accepts the payment

 and after the vehicle leaves the company/

 workshop the gate pass is delivered at the gate

 to the guard and entry is maintained in the

 register. xxiii) Strange enough in the present case 990 neither the register maintained by the guard at

 the gate in which the entry of the car

 leaving the workshop was made nor the gate

 pass surrendered by the customer was

 produced. xxiv) He further testified that the

 vehicle in the present case was ready for

 delivery on 19.2.02. However, there is no

 explanation on behalf of the defence as to why

 the delivery of the same was taken on 10.3.02

 and who took the delivery and how the

 vehicle reached Karnal from where it was

 got recovered by the accused persons.

xxv) DW2 Madhu Mohan Nair admitted

 that when the customer goes to the cashier for

 payment at that time he signs the job card

 and gets gate pass. When the gate pass Ex.DW

 2/B was shown to him he admitted that it 991 was bearing his signature and he also admitted

that he was not working as cashier when this

gate pass was issued. He failed to give any

reason that if he was not the cashier and had

not accepted the payment why did he sign

the gate pass. In defence the cashier has not

produced to prove that the payment was made

with regard to the servicing / repairs of the

vehicle and thereafter the gate pass was

issued by his witness. Strangely the register

maintained at the gate showing the entries

of gate pass was not traceable as per the

testimony of this witness and he did not

produce the original gate pass on the pretext

that the same is with the customer, whereas

lateron he admitted that after the gate pass is

given to the customer, who delivers the same

at the gate to the guard to take the vehicle out 992 of gate . He stated that the original gate pass

 was not traceable. He further admitted that he

 had not brought the original bill invoice nor

 the stock register nor he could produce any

 authority from the company director giving

 him permission to appear before the Court as

 a witness. xxvi) He admitted that in February

 2002 he was working as workshop incharge

 but in the computer vehicle history of Tata

 Safari bearing No. PB 07 H 0085 Ex.DW 2/A at

 point D to G his name is mentioned as a

 mechanic. xxvii) He admitted that the details of the

 spare parts used in the vehicle when it came

 for repairs on 4.7.01 are not given in Ex.DW

 2/A, whereas perusal of the record shows that

 with regard to the repairs of the vehicle on 993 16.2.02, the details of the parts used are given in

 Ex.DW2/A. 

xxviii) The defence has also relied upon

 the testimony of DW8 Gaurav Agarwal that the

 payment for the repairs of Tata Safari bearing

 No. PB 07 H 0085 was made to Nawab Motors

 vide a cheque of Rs. 25,000/­ dtd 19/2/02 from

 the account of Oswal Sugar Ltd. To that effect

 DW8 produced the certificate copy of the bank

 statement of Oswal Sugar Ltd Ex.DW8/A and

 the bank certificate Ex.DW8/B regarding the

 transfer of payment of Rs. 25,000/­ in the

 account of Nawab Motors. The defence has also

 relied upon the testimony of DW7 Shaktichand

 of Nawab Motors, who produced two bank

 statements of the company Ex.DW7/S & T

 respectively for the period 27/9/01 to 28/9/01

 and 20/2/02 to 21/2/02 to prove the payment of 994 Rs. 20,000/­ and Rs. 25,000/­ respectively

 received by them from Oswal Sugar Ltd.

xxix) Now it is to be seen whether there

 is any evidence from Nawab Motors that they

 had accepted the payment of Rs. 25,000/­ vide

 cheque dtd 19/2/02 encashed in their account

 on 21/2/02 in respect of the repair /service

 charges of Tata Safari sent for repairs on

 16/2/02. So far DW8 Gaurav Agarwal is

 concerned who claims himself to be a record

 keeper in accounts with Indian Sucrose Ltd (old

 name Oswal Sugar Ltd) appeared as DW8 and

 produced the record pertaining to some

 payments made by Oswal Sugar Ltd to Nawab

 Motors through cheque of Rs. 25,000/­ dtd

 19/2/02 and the payment was withdrawn from

 the account of Oswal sugar Ltd on 21/2/02.

 However this witness during his cross 995 examination failed to produce any invoice to

show in what context the aforesaid payment

was made to Nawab Motors as reflected in

statement of account Ex.DW8/A. He voluntarily

stated that the payment of Rs. 25,000/­ was

made in account but he could not say why it

was made in account. There is no evidence on

record that any advance payment was sought

for by the Nawab Motors from Oswal Sugar for

the repairs of the vehicle. The document

Ex.DW2/A shows that the bill raised for the

servicing and repair of the vehicle was 14,811/­

and not Rs. 25,000/­ the payment of which has

been proved by the defence through cheque.

Besides, DW2 Madhumohan Nair has

categorically stated during his cross examination

that in the presence case after the payment was

made to the cashier he signed the gate pass. He 996 stated that no payment was made in respect of

this vehicle through cheque as deposed by DW8

Gaurav Agarwal and the gate pass was handed

over after the payment was made. No doubt

DW7 Shaktichand who appeared on behalf of

Nawab Motors has produced certified bank

statements issued by Bank Manager, Centurion

Bank of Punjab, Outer Circle, Cannought Circus

as Ex.DW7/ S & T and the certificate of the

Bank Manager Ex.DW7/U in respect of the

payments of Rs.25,000/­ received from Oswal

Sugar but he did not depose in respect of

repairs of which vehicle the payment was

accepted, when that vehicle was repaired. No

document has been proved by this witness that

any payment of Rs. 25,000/­ was received by

cheque in the account of the company on

21/2/02 with regard to the repairs of Tata 997 Safari No. PB 07 H 0085 . Moreover, when

DW2 has testified that the vehicle was repaired

within 3­4 days after it was received in the

company on 16/2/02 it shows that it was ready

for delivery and then there was no need to

make any advance payment and the entire bill

could be cleared while taking its delivery after

repairs. Besides, DW2 MM Nair has categorically

stated that all the payments are accepted by the

company in cash so there was no reason to

make this payment through cheque towards

repairs of this vehicle to Nawab Motors. Besides

this, there is no other defence evidence with

regard to the fact that the vehicle was in the

company of Nawab Motors since 16/2/02 at

10:49 am. DW2 MM Nair at one stage stated

that the vehicle was repaired within 3­4 days of

16/2/02 whereas in the later part of his 998 examination he stated that the vehicle was

ready for delivery on 8/3/02. He has failed to

explain as to why it took around 16 days for

vehicle to be ready for delivery if it was

already repaired within 3­4 days of 16/2/02. No

record has been produced from Nawab Motors

as to who had left the vehicle for repairs and

who collected the delivery. No evidence has

been led by the defence as to at what time the

delivery was taken from Nawab Motors and

what time it was left at Karnal , AB Coltex and

who left it there. The best evidence for defence

would have been of the driver who had left the

vehicle at Nawab Motors and then collected the

delivery and left it at Karnal. Surprisingly,

accused Vikas Yadav in his statement U/s 313 Cr.PC has claimed that this vehicle was used

extensively during elections upto 14/2/02 and 999 was sent for repairs at the authorised dealer on

15/2/02 in the late evening itself but he did not

give the name of any such authorised

workshop. If this vehicle was already sent to

Nawab Motors for repairs and servicing as

claimed by DW2 then there was no reason for

accused Vikas Yadav not to disclose the name

of the company as Nawab Motors. Besides, his

statement U/s 313 Cr.PC is contrary to the

defence evidence from Nawab Motors. As he

stated in his statement U/s 313 Cr.PC that

vehicle was left with the workshop on 15/2/02

late in the evening whereas witnesses from

Nawab Motors claim this vehicle was received

in the company on 16/2/02 at 10:49am. Besides,

none of the defence witnesses have testified

that Tata Safari was being used extensively by

the accused during his election campaign. Thus, 1000 the defence led by the accused persons through

 the testimony of DW2 is contrary to the

 statement of accused Vikas made U/s 313 Cr.PC .

xxx) Spl. PP for State has criticized the

 conduct of DW2 MM Nair first for the reason

 that in the computer history of this vehicle

 Ex.DW2/A he is mentioned as mechanic at point

 D to H whereas he was never a mechanic in

 the company and Secondly, for the reason that

 gate pass Ex.DW2/B was issued under his

 signatures on 10/3/02. DW7 Shaktichand

 categorically testified that none of the other

 gate passes issued in respect of any of the

 vehicles received on 16/2/02 were signed by

 MM Nair and it was only gate pass pertaining

 to this vehicle which was signed by him.

xxxi) I find force in the argument

 of the Spl PP for State. No reason or 1001 explanation has been given as to why DW2

signed the gate pass particularly when he

himself testified that it is the cashier who signs

the gate pass of receipt of the payment. As such

the gate pass is always issued after receipt of

the payment in respect of the vehicle by the

cashier but in the present case the bill date is

8/3/02but the gate pass was issued on 10/3/02.

If the payment had already been received on

8/3/02 then why the delivery of the vehicle was

not taken on 8/3/02 and was postponed till

10/3/02. All these discrepancies in the testimony

of defence witnesses do not make them reliable.

Particularly when the accused in his defence

stated that the vehicle was sent to authorised

workshop for repairs in the evening of 15/2/02.

If the accused was already aware of the fact

that the vehicle was with Nawab Motors then 1002 why did he make disclosure statement that the

 vehicle was concealed by them at Alwar and he

 could get the same recovered. He could straight

 away have informed the police that the vehicle

 was with Nawab Motors since 15/2/02 or

 16/2/02. In view of the above discussion, I find

 that accused Vikas Yadav once again tried to

 mislead the court by producing false evidence

 but has failed in his designs. xxxii) Now it is relevant to discuss

 the evidence of PW34 SI JK Gangwar, PW35 SI

 Anil Somania and PW27 Sultan Singh regarding

 recovery of Tata Safari. xxxiii) PW34 SI JK Gangwar in this

 regard testified that from the spot (ie spot of

 recovery of hammer and wrist watch) they

 proceeded to Alwar as accused Vikas had

 disclosed that he could get Tata Safari used in 1003 the crime and the cell phone of the deceased.

 He led them to Alwar in Maharaja Building

 where office of accused persons was situated,

 but vehicle was not found there nor the cell

 phone. From there they led the police party to

 Sirisca Palace Hotel as accused persons told

 them that both these things would be recovered

 from there but again nothing was recovered

 from there. Then they were taken by the

 accused persons to Shanti Kunj a house in

 Alwar. There also recovery could not be

 effected and as such they returned to the PS

 Kavi Nagar and handed over the custody back

 to the Jail Supdt on expiry of police remand on

 1/3/02 at 9am. xxxiv) The evidence of PW34 SI

 JK Gangwar shows that since CJM Ghaziabad

 allowed police custody remand of accused 1004 persons only for 24 hours, the accused persons

 intentionally mislead the IO and PW34 SI JK

 Gangwar that vehicle was in Alwar and made

 them go from one place to another in search of

 Tata Safari so that police remand period was

 over without any recovery. xxxv) The testimony of PW34 SI JK

 Gangwar is corroborated by the statement of

 PW35 SI Anil Somania who deposed on the

 same lines. xxxvi) PW35 SI Anil Somania also

 proved the house search memo Ex.PW35/25,

 PW35/46 and PW35/47 showing no recovery of

 vehicle at H. No. 2, Maharaja Building Alwar,

 Sirisca Palace, Jaipur, Shantikunj Alwar. IO

 proved the relevant entries Ex.PW35/26 and

 PW35/27 in the GD in respect of departures and

 arrival as well as in respect of the recoveries 1005 effected and there is no cross examination in

this regard by the defence counsel. This witness

has further testified that the accused persons

were sent to Distt. Jail, Ghaziabad to Dabra in

terms of the orders of the Magistrate of Dabra

on 6/3/02 in the custody of SI JK Gangwar vide

DD No. 36 Ex.PW35/36. It is stated that since he

had to go to Allahabad in connection with the

writ petition filed by the accused persons, he

left for Allahabad on the night of 7/3/02 and

reached Ghaziabad on 8/3/02. SI Rakam Singh

was made joint IO alongwith him by the SSP

and in his absence he had moved an

application for PC remand of the accused

persons. On 8/3/02 he came to know that the

court had ordered 48 hours PC Remand of the

accused persons wef 9/3/02 at 2pm. At that

time accused persons were confined at Dabra 1006 Jail. He testified that he therefore proceeded to

Dabra alongwith police force on the night of

8/3/02 at 22:10 hours and GD entry Ex.PW35/37

in this respect was made. He testified that

before he proceeded for Dabra he received

telephone call from SI JK Gangwar from Agra

who was coming back after leaving accused

persons at Dabra. IO told him to remain at

Agra to join him. From there SI JK Gangwar

joined the IO and they went to Dabra where

they reached at 8:30am on 9/3/02. As pointed

out by the Spl PP for State all possible efforts

were made by the accused persons to delay

handing over of their custody to the Ghaziabad

police at Dabra. It is already observed above

that the CJM Ghaziabad had ordered that the

accused shall remain in the PC remand for 48

hours wef 9/3/02 at 2pm onwards, however, the 1007 testimony of the IO clearly reflects the conduct

 of the accused persons and their advocates who

 represented them before CJM Ghaziabad. 

xxxvii) IO testified that it was 11am

 when he had handed over the orders

 Ex.DW35/38 of CJM Ghaziabad to the Judicial

 Magistrate Dabra who fixed the matter for 1pm

 for hearing but did not pass any order on his

 application for handing over the custody of the

 accused persons and he kept on postponing the

 application for further time. He stated that the

 advocates of the accused persons were also

 present there addressing the court. xxxviii) He stated that he

 received the copy of the order passed by the

 Judicial Magistrate­ Ist Dabra at 7pm on 9/3/02

 whereby the PC remand was allowed. The order

 is Ex.CW2/2. The copy of the order is 1008 Ex.PW35/39. After receiving the order, IO went

to the jail for taking custody of the accused

persons but the jail authorities refused to give

the custody on the ground that it was night

time and then finally the custody of the

accused persons was handed over to them on

10/3/02 at 9:26am. I have no hesitation to say

that the advocates of the accused persons

managed to delay the handing over of their

custody to the IO. It is seen that IO had only

got 48 hours PC remand of the accused persons

effective from 9/3/02 at 2pm but the custody

was received on 10/3/02 at 9:26am. It seems

even jail authorities were oblivious of the

situation and had no sanctity for law and did

not co­operate with the police of Ghaziabad to

hand over the custody of the accused

immediately on receipt of order of Judicial 1009 Magistrate Ist Dabra. So was the Judicial

 Magistrate Ist Dabra, who was misled by the

 accused persons or their advocates, though he

 was expected to act vigilantly and promptly. 

xxxix) IO further testified that after

 taking the accused persons custody he

 alongwith the police team and the accused

 persons proceeded towards Chandigarh and on

 the way stopped at Agra for taking meals. He

 interrogated the accused persons at Agra who

 disclosed that Tata Safari used by them can be

 either at Panipat or at Karnal. Then they went

 alongwith the accused persons to Panipat where

 the accused persons told them that the vehicle

 may be at taxi stand near shamshaan ghat.

 Police team reached there at 11pm but still no

 recovery was effected from there. At Panipat the

 accused persons told the number of Tata Safari 1010 as PB07H 0085 on being interrogated again and

then on being interrogated sternly they told

that the vehicle will be in Karnal. The conduct

of the accused persons is self explanatory that

they misled the police since the inception.

Firstly, they told that the vehicle would be at

Alwar, then at Sirisca Palace, then at Shantikunj

and then at Panipat at a taxi stand near

shamshaan ghat but at none of the places the

vehicle could be found there and it appears

that they were well of this fact that vehicle was

not there but it was only with a view to pass

the time to cover the period of PC remand. It

was only within the knowledge of the accused

persons as to where the vehicle was concealed.

If as stated by the accused persons in his

statement U/s313 Cr.PC that the vehicle had

been given to authorised dealer for repairs / 1011 servicing on the evening of 15/2/02 is believed

 to be correct or if the evidence of the defence

 witnesses from Nawab Motors to the effect that

 the vehicle was delivered after repairs and

 servicing on 10/3/02 is believed to be correct it

 is a mystery as to how the accused persons

 were aware that the vehicle had been repaired

 and delivery was already made on 10/3/02 and

 it was present in the premises of the company

 AB Cotex Karnal from where it was finally

 recovered. xl) The arguments of the defence

 counsel that why the accused persons were

 interrogated at Agra and thereafter at Panipat

 without the permission of the CJM Ghaziabad,

 in my opinion has no base as once the accused

 persons were in the police custody remand, it

 was the duty and right of the IO to interrogate 1012 the accused persons during investigation to find

 out truth to facilitate justice. xli) PW35 SI Anil Somania, the IO

 has further testified that on 11th March the

 accused persons led them to thread factory

 namely AB Coltex and from there they got

 recovered Tata Safari No PB07H 0085. He also

 testified that chowkidar of the factory namely

 Sultan Singh was also associated in the

 recovery of the vehicle vide recovery memo

 Ex.PW27/1. The perusal of Ex.PW27/1 shows that

 these are not bearing the signatures of the

 accused persons. The IO has clarified that the

 accused persons had refused to sign the

 recovery memo and to this effect a note is also

 found to be made by the IO on the recovery

 memo itself. xlii) The argument of the defence 1013 counsel is that no recovery was effected in the

 presence of accused persons from AB Coltex

 and it is only for this reason the signatures of

 both the accused are not appearing on the

 recovery memo. xliii) However, in my opinion this

 argument has no substance, particularly in view

 of the fact that since the inception the

 argument of the defence counsel is that the

 signatures of the accused persons were obtained

 on the blank papers particularly when they

 were taken to Shikarpur road from where the

 dead body was recovered. However, if the police

 had obtained the signatures of the accused

 persons on the blank papers, it was not difficult

 for them to prepare the recovery memo

 Ex.PW27/1 of Tata Safari on these papers. This

 shows the fairness of the police that when the 1014 accused persons did not sign the same IO made

 an endorsement to this effect on the recovery

 memo itself. Besides, I find, recovery of Tata

 Safari from AB Cotex Karnal is also supported

 by the evidence of PW Sultan Singh. xliv) PW27 Sultan Singh

 categorically stated that in the month of March

 2002 Tata Safari was recovered by the police in

 his presence from the factory. He admitted his

 signatures on the seizure memo Ex.PW27/1 at

 point A but he stated that he had signed on a

 blank paper. His said testimony that he was

 made to sign on a blank paper does not inspire

 credence particularly when he has admitted that

 recovery was effected in his presence. Besides it

 cannot be lost sight of the fact that he was

 employee of Mr. DP Yadav to whom the

 company AB Coltex belonged and as such in 1015 this regard he made a favourable statement to

 the accused persons. Though PW27 could not

 tell the number of the vehicle seized from there

 but he admitted it to be correct that it was

 having Punjab number. It is important to note

 that this witness throughout his chief

 examination or cross examination by SPP did

 not state as to when this vehicle was parked in

 this company . A suggestive question was put

 by counsel for accused Vishal which is

 reproduced as follows: Besides, the knowledge of the accused persons

that the vehicle was at Karnal itself shows that

they would not leave any incriminating

evidence in the vehicle showing their

involvement in the commission of crime. 1019 xlvii) The prosecution has proved on

 record through the testimony of PW9 Vikram

 Singh, STA from Registrar of Company, Punjab

 & Himachal & Chandigarh, PW12 Ms. Kulwant

 Kaur, DTO, Hoshiarpur Punjab and CW1 MK

 Katara, Director, Oswal Sugar Ltd, that the

 vehicle Tata Safari No. PB 07 H 0085 was

 registered in the name of company M/s Oswal

 Sugar Ltd, GT Road, Mukeria, Hoshiarpur and

 that Mr. DP Yadav, the father of accused Vikas

 Yadav was one of the Directors of the said

 company. Moreover this fact is not disputed by

 the accused persons. xlviii) The vehicle was recovered from AB

 Coltex and through testimony of CW1 MK

 Katara it has come on record that AB Coltex ,

 Karnal is the company in which part of the

 management is that of Oswal Sugar Ltd of 1020 which Mr DP Yadav is one of the Directors. 

xlix) In view of the above discussion, in my

 opinion the prosecution has proved beyond

 reasonable doubt the use of Tata Safari in the

 commission of the crime and its recovery at the

 instance of accused persons from the premises

 of a factory AB Coltex, Karnal in furtherance of

 their disclosure statement. This is again another

 link in the chain of circumstances proved by

 the prosecution against the accused persons. SPECIAL REPORT i) The counsel for accused Vishal Yadav

 has submitted that in the present case special

 report was sent with delay giving rise to

 presumption that FIR was ante­timed and

 manipulation was done. He has drawn my 1021 attention to Rule 97 of UP Police Rules in

 Chapter 10. As per Rule 97, whenever

 information relating to the commission of a

 cognizable offence is given to an officer

 incharge of a police station, the report will be

 prepared in triplicate, one copy will remain in

 the book, other will be given to the

 complainant and original will be sent to

 Magistrate having jurisdiction through Supdt.

 of police. ii) The perusal of Rule 97 shows

 that it is not mandatory to send the original

 report to Magistrate, as the word used is not

 shall but ''will be''. iii) The defence have relied upon authority

 reported in 1994(2) RCR Page 609 whereby it is

 held by the Hon'ble Apex Court while tallying

 with the provisions of Sec. 157 ­159 Cr.PC in a 1022 murder case that 

 '' it is mandatory to sent a report to the
 Magistrate promptly without delay even
 on Sunday's or holidays. Report of the
 murder was sent on 3rd day of the
 occurrence. Accused was acquitted on
 this account coupled with other
 infirmities. It was further held that
 circumstances showed the FIR and fard
 banyan were recorded much later in
 point of time. This and other
 circumstances cast cloud on the
 prosecution. '' iv) I agree with the aforesaid authority

 and the contention of the defence counsel that

 to ensure that investigation is not delayed and

 manipulated, special report in certain cases

 of sensitive nature must be sent without delay. v) In the present case the special report 1023 admittedly was not sent to the Magistrate after

 case U/s. 364 IPC was registered on

 17.02.02 but it was sent after Section 302 IPC was added to the FIR, on receipt of

 report of finger prints expert to the effect that

 finger prints of the unidentified deadbody

 tallied with the finger prints of Nitish Katara

 taken out from the record of his driving

 licence from Licensing Authority Sarai Kale

 Khan. vi) IO PW 35 SI Anil Somania

 testified that he added Section 302 / 201 IPC in the FIR registered about kidnapping

 of Nitish Katara on 25th Feb 2002 at 6.30 pm

 and this fact he also mentioned in GD vide

 entry No 39 Ex.PW 35/18 and information

 was sent to SP City and SO. He further

 stated that on 26.2.02 he gave report Ex.PW 1024 35/20 to the Court of the CJM Ghaziabad

 about addition of Sec. 302 / 201 IPC in the

 FIR . The aforesaid testimony of the witness

 has not been cross examined by the defence

 counsel. vii) The argument of the defence

 counsel as to why special report was not sent

 on 17.2.02 when FIR was registered U/s 364 IPC is of no consequence as, as per Rule

 101 Chapter 10 UP Police Rules, special

 report is required to be sent immediately only

 on the registration of following cases: including theft of notes or hundis from

letters. h) Important cases of murder, rioting,

burglary and theft, breaches of the peace

between different classes, communities or

political groups and other cases of special

interest. viii)As per the above list, no special report was

 required to be sent in a case registered with

 the allegations of abduction and therefore there

 was no lapse on the part of the prosecution in

 not sending at all the special report on 17.02.02

 when the case was registered U/s 364 IPC .

 Besides, defence has failed to show that delay

 in sending special report caused any injustice to

 the accused persons. It held in 1997 Crl. LJ 1026 2853 that the delay in sending special report

 to Magistrate and failure to record the

 substance of FIR in daily diary, is not fatal

 when no prejudice was caused to the accused. ix) The defence counsel has failed to point

 out that any prejudice was caused to the

 accused persons in the present case by not

 sending the special report on 17/2/02 when the

 case was registered U/s 364 IPC and its being

 sent on 26.02.02 when Section 302 / 201 IPC

 was added to the FIR. FIR / DD ENTRY Ex.DW10/A i) The counsel for both the accused

 persons have also raised objection that since

 DD No. 12 dtd. 17.2.02 Ex. DW 10/A was

 already registered with PS Pahar Ganj at the

 instance of Sh Nishit Katara, the father of

 the deceased Nitish Katara about his missing. 1027 It should be treated as an FIR as the

complaint Ex PW 1 /2 was lodged by the

mother of the deceased with PS Kavi Nagar

subsequent to the DD and this cannot be

treated as FIR. It is further submitted that in

this DD the father of the deceased has

nowhere mentioned or even expressed any

suspicion that his son Nitish Katara was

abducted from the Diamond Palace by the

accused persons and that as per DD he only

reported to the police that his son Nitish

Katara aged 24/25 years had gone to Diamond

Palace Ghaziabad in a taxi to attend a

marriage and the taxi had returned but his

son had not returned. It is submitted that in

view of the aforesaid report the complaint Ex

PW 1/1 lodged by Smt Neelam Katara with

PS Kavi Nagar wherein she gave the names of 1028 the accused persons appears to be after an

 thought and motivated. ii) However I find no force in the aforesaid

 argument as DD No. 12 ExDW 10/A was

 recorded only on the basis of an information

 given by Nishit Katara to the police that his

 son had not returned from Diamond Palace

 Ghaziabad where he had gone to attend the

 marriage and this in no manner can be equated

 with the first information report as vide the

 aforesaid DD no information relating to the

 commission of a cognizable offence was given

 by Nishit Katara to the police. As per the

 provisions of Section 154 Cr PC it is only an

 information relating to the commission of a

 cognizable offence which shall be reduced in

 writing by an officer incharge of the PS and

 this is the first information report which puts 1029 the police machinery into action. DD No. 12 Ex. DW 10/A is no doubt not containing any

such material to draw inference that Nitish

Katara had been abducted by the accused

persons and the argument of the defence

counsel that if the story of the complainant in

her complaint Ex. PW 1/1 was correct then

why the father did not report to the police

against the accused persons, the answer to this

is given by PW 30 Neelam Katara herself in

her cross examination whereby she testified

that her husband was suffering from

neurological problem i e motoneuron disease

which is progressive degenerating disease and

there is no known modern medicine for the

same and as such she wanted to keep him

away from the stress of running around in the

PS etc. It shows that may be he was not even 1030 informed that his son had been abducted and

 that too by the accused persons. It is important

 to note that Nishit Katara is no more alive, as

 such it cannot be brought on record as to under what circumstances he lodged DD No. 12 with PS Pahar Ganj and whether he was

 aware of the fact that the deceased had been

 abducted by the accused persons . The only

 important witness who could disclose about this

 fact was PW 30 but the defence did not put

 any question in this regard during her cross

 examination that her husband was aware of all

 the details of the incident. It is on record that

 the aforesaid DD was transferred to PS Kavi

 Nagar on 17.2.02 itself and it was entered in

 GD No. 18. I have perused the GD register

 whereby the aforesaid DD finds mention. iii) In these circumstances, there are 1031 no two opinions that DD No 12 Ex.DW 10/1

 did not put the police machinery into action

 but it is only on the basis of complaint Ex

 PW 1/1 that FIR was registered with PS Kavi

 Nagar and that was the first information report

 and investigation was carried out by the police. iv) Lot of hue and cry was raised

 by the defence counsels during the cross of

 arguments regarding poster Ex.PW1/DA that in

 the same, the names of the accused persons

 was not mentioned and it was only the posted

 to trace out a missing person. It is submitted

 that the poster was prepared in this manner

 only for the reason that the complainant did

 not know who were involved in the present

 case. v) I have seen the poster Ex.PW1/DA

 and no doubt the names of the accused persons 1032 are not mentioned therein but it is incorrect to

say that till that date the names of the accused

persons were not known, as the case number of

the present case ie 192/02 U/s 354 IPC is

specifically mentioned in the poster which

proves FIR had already been lodged till that

time which contained the names of the accused

persons. It is also true that in the body of the

poster it is mentioned that Nitish Katara was

missing from the marriage function since 12:30

am on the night of 16­17/2/02 but the title of

the poster is absolutely clear where it is clearly

mentioned ''Talash Apharit'' ie search for

abducted person. Therefore in my opinion

merely non mentioning the names of the

accused persons in the poster does not effect

adversely the prosecution case in any manner.

There is not an iota of evidence on record to 1033 say that the FIR Ex.PW1/2 was not registered

 on 17/2/02 but lateron as claimed by the

 counsel for the accused persons. vi) The counsel for both the

 accused persons have further submitted that

 there is no evidence on record as to how

 Neelam Katara named both the accused persons

 in her complaint Ex.PW1/1. vii) Ld. Spl. PP for State has submitted

 that on this point PW30 was not cross

 examined at all and that PW39 had stated that

 the parentage of Vishal was disclosed by Bharti

 Singh. It is further submitted that since Bharti

 Singh was closed to the family of Nitish Katara

 she might have disclosed the name of the

 father of accused Vishal Yadav to them and to

 this effect PW30 was the best person to clarify

 but was not subjected to cross examination in 1034 this regard. viii) To appreciate the arguments of

 both the parties, I have gone through the

 complaint Ex.PW1/1 where the names of the

 accused persons alongwith their parentage are

 mentioned besides that they are residents of

 Ghaziabad. The perusal of the testimony of

 PW30 shows that she in detail has stated as to

 how the things took place. The relevant portion

 of her testimony is reproduced as follows : The reason why he was dropped is given in the

ordersheet itself that he was won over by the 1042 accused persons and this finds support from the

 fact that when he appeared as a prosecution

 witness No. 8 against the co­accused Sukhdev

 Yadav facing separate trial vide SC No. 117A/06

 he did not support the prosecution and was

 declared hostile. xi) The other argument of the

 defence counsel is that even PW Bharat

 Diwarkar has nowhere stated that he was

 informed by PW Rohit Gaur that the person

 who had taken away Nitish Katara from the

 Diamond Palace was the accused Vishal Yadav

 s/o Late Sh. Kamalraj Yadav. To this effect the

 conduct of Bharat Diwakar has already been

 observed that he was under the influence of the

 accused persons as firstly he denied that his

 statement was recorded by the police on

 17/2/02 though in his testimony he admitted 1043 that at the time the enquiries were made from

Neelam Katara by the police of PS Kavi Nagar

on 17/2/02 he too was called and interrogated

and narrated the entire episode which in my

opinion itself amounted to his statement before

the police, and lateron he did not support the

prosecution case in the court that it was

accused Vishal Yadav who had taken away

deceased from the Diamond Palace. Though at

the same time it is observed he did not deny

also that accused Vishal Yadav was the same

person. In view of the above discussion I am of

the opinion that the evidence of PW30 itself is

sufficient to prove that she got the knowledge

about the involvement of accused persons from

Bharti Yadav and from Bharat Diwakar and as

such she named both the accused alongwith

their parentage in her complaint Ex.PW1/1. 1044 Black Ash i) The other argument of the defence

counsel is that though PW 4 Inspt CP Singh

had testified that he had taken the burnt ash

from near the deadbody which was deposited in

the malkhana on 17.2.02 as per the entry No.

48 in the malkhana register and lateron the

same was handed over to Ghaziabad police on

6/3/02, it is submitted that the burnt ash was

not sent to CFSL for chemical examination. I

agree that it is a lapse on the part of the IO.

However, still no benefit can be given to the

accused persons for this lapse as it is proved on

record through the postmortem report that the

death was due to the head injury which was

antemortem and the burns were postmortem. As

such the burnt ash could only prove as to

what material was used for burning the deceased 1045 to destroy the evidence and nothing more. Conduct of IO. i) The counsel for both the accused have

alleged that the IO PW35 did not investigate the

case fairly and was on enmical terms with Sh. DP

Yadav. To that effect they have examined DW21

Adv Samar Singh who claims that he has been

handling and looking after the cases of Sh DP

Yadav, father of accused Vikas Yadav since the

year 1986. This witness has been examined to the

effect that SI Anil Somania the IO of the present

case when was posted in District Sambhal from

where Sh. DP Yadav was MP, had a tussle with

Sh DP Yadav since he was pursuing the matter

of local inhabitants of Sambhal Constituency. He

testified that since Mr DP Yadav had declined to

supply the wine to the police officers free of cost 1046 it resulted in his implication in a false case.

However, this witness failed to give any details of

any such false case against Sh DP Yadav or

accused Vikas Yadav. He produced on record

Ex.DW 21/A the certified copy of the judgment

in criminal writ petition No. 21955/2004 titled 

DP Yadav Vs State of UP & Ors and it is

stated that when this order was passed at that

time Sh. DP Yadav was member of Parliament. 

He further stated that the investigation conducted

by SI Anil Somania in the present case was

tainted. This witness in answer to court question

stated that his opinion that investigation was

tainted, was formed since SI was not having good

reputation in PS Kavi Nagar and several cases

were hushed up and no final report was

submitted to the Court. He further stated that

presently Anil Somania was under suspension 1047 for false encounter after taking money from the

parties. ii) The perusal of the testimony of this

 witness shows that his opinion that PW35 did

 not investigate the matter fairly was based on

 the fact that the witness was not carrying good

 reputation in PS Kavi Nagar. The witness has

 failed to quote any instance as to how he felt

 that the reputation of PW35 was not good in

 the PS Kavi Nagar. Again the witness failed to

 give any account of the cases which were

 falsely hushed up PW35 to say that he never

 conducted investigation fairly. iii) The accused persons have also

 produced DW25 Jamshed Khan to prove that

 the testimony of PW35 is not worth reliance. He

 testified that he conducted a sting operation

 on SI Anil Somania & Ors. in Feb 2005. It is 1048 stated that the sting operation was conducted

 regarding encounter done by SI Anil Somania

 to expose as to how false encounters were done

 by the police. However this witness failed to

 produce the recording of any such sting

 operation and claimed that after 90 days of

 the recording the same is recycled. iv) In the absence of any such

 record the testimony of this witness cannot be

 believed to the effect that any such sting

 operation was conducted on Anil Somania. v) In these circumstances the

 accused persons have failed to bring any

 material on record that PW35 SI Anil Somania

 had any enmity with the accused persons or

 used to hush up cases after being bribed or

 was involved in any sting operation. There is no

 material on record to say that the testimony of 1049 PW35 SI Anil Somania in the present case is

 not worth reliance and should be discarded. vi) The argument of the defence counsel is

 that the IO PW 35 SI Anil Somania did not

 conduct the investigation fairly and under the

 influence of the complainant whose father was

 a senior police officer, he falsely implicated the

 accused persons and that to manipulate the

 case against the accused persons the statements

 of the prosecution witnesses were recorded

 with delay. However, I find no force in the

 aforesaid argument as no doubt the

 complainant PW 30 Neelam Katara has

 admitted in her cross examination that her

 father was a senior police officer in UP,

 however at the same time she stated that he

 retired about 16 years back from the police. No

 suggestion was given to PW 30 that her 1050 father had influenced the investigation.

 Similarly PW 35 SI Anil Somania was not

 cross examined to this effect. PW 34 SI JK

 Gangwar during cross examination of the

 defence admitted that Sh. AN Paul was the

 SSP Moradabad during his posting in

 Moradabad in the year 1971 and he had

 worked under him during that period. He

 categorically stated that he had learnt only

 now Sh. AN Paul is the father of Mrs

 Neelam Katara, mother of the deceased and he

 did not know this fact from before. Even no

 suggestion was given to the witness that the

 police of Ghaziabad was under his influence

 which affected the investigation of the present

 case. vii) The other argument of the defence

 counsel that Sh AK Raghav SP Ghaziabad 1051 under the influence of complainant had even

 gone to Dabra for the arrest of the accused

 persons in the present case. However, the

 supervision conducted by Sh AK Raghav SP

 Ghaziabad does not appear to be on account of

 the complainant being the daughter of ex. SPP

 Moradabad but on account of the fact that

 Sh. DP Yadav, father of accused Vikas Yadav

 at the time of the incident was the member of

 the parliament. The allegation of the defence

 that the investigation was not carried out

 fairly, in my opinion, is without any

 substance. CONDUCT OF THE ACCUSED PERSONS : 31.5.2003 shows that an application has been

moved by Ajay Katara on that day to the

effect that he was already one gunner but at

least two gunners should be provided to him. 1054 In the application he moved on the aforesaid

 date he alleged that the accused are powerful

 and had passed criminal record due to which

 the witness was being pressurised not to

 appear as a witness and there were threats to

 his life and property and he feels insecure.

 The court on his application had issued

 directions to Director General of Police

 Lucknow (UP) and Inspt. General of Police,

 Meerut Zone for taking necessary steps for

 the security of the witness. ii) Perusal of the record further

 shows that on 22/07/2003 PW 33 Ajay Katara

 moved another application before the Court,

 wherein he informed that he was being

 threatened day and night by SI and Inspt of

 Ghaziabad and a conspiracy was being hatched

 to implicate him in false cases. He alleged 1055 that on 20.07.2003 he was detained in the PS

 Vijay Nagar for four hours and was even

 tortured physically for the reason that he had

 entangled himself with a big shot who used to

 help them in their transfers and postings. He

 also threatened that he would call media

 person and would flash his photo on the TV

 so that the people of Ghaziabad and the

 goons could identify him. It is further alleged

 that on the next day his photograph was

 actually shown in the TV News and he was

 involved in a false case under S.C Act by Saroj

 Yadav under a conspiracy that he had

 misbehaved with her and he was also forced

 to sign on blank papers. iii) The order sheet dtd. 22.7.03 find

 reference of the aforesaid application. It is

 observed that it was a serious matter as the 1056 only witness who had not turned hostile was

 receiving threats from the police officials. As

 such the letter was ordered to be issued to

 the DIG to see that the witness was not

 harassed by the other police officials. Notice

 was also issued to the SHO and lady SI

 Parveen Saxena to appear in person to show

 cause as to why action should not be taken

 against them for giving threats to the witness. iv) On 30.07.2003 both these police

 officials appeared before the Court and filed

 their written reply. Alongwith the reply they

 filed the photocopy of the news cuttings and

 photo copy of an application made by one Smt

 Saroj Yadav, President of Mahilla Morcha of

 Congress. In the application Smt Saroj Yadav

 had written to SO Vijay Nagar that one person

 who tells himself Ajay Katara, on the morning 1057 of 20.07.2003 gave beatings to Darvesh

 Kumar Pancham Silwas and tailor Kishan

 Singh and also abused and gave threat to kill

 them. He also misbehaved with with Saroj

 Yadav and tore her clothes and abused her.

 It is further observed in the order sheet

 that PW 33Ajay Katara stated that Saroj

 Yadav was the relative of Sh. DP Yadav. v) It is further observed in the order

 sheet that SO stated that about 800

 persons had gathered at his PS when he

 picked up three persons against whom Mr.

 Ajay Katara had made a telephonic complaint.

 It is observed the very fact that 800 persons

 had gathered and merely three persons were

 picked up, it was a pre­ organised show. The

 complaint of Smt Saroj Yadav also smelled of

 malafide. The complaint of Ajay Katara 1058 alongwith the reply of the police officials were

 sent to DIG Meerut Zone for enquiry. It was

 also made clear by the Court to both the

 police officials that any harassment to the

 witness in the grab of the complaints lodged

 by relatives of DP Singh as well as wishers of

 the accused persons shall be taken seriously by

 the Court. vi) Perusal of the record further

 shows that on 15.10.2007 and on 29.10.07

 against the witness Ajay Katara moved

 applications against Sh DP Yadav and his

 henchmen and sought protection to his life and

 of his family members. In the complaint dtd.

 15.10.2007 he categorically mentioned that

 since after his deposition in the case he was

 being harassed by Sh DP Yadav and was

 involved in false cases which lateron scrapped. 1059 It is mentioned in the application that he was

 being threatened to be crushed under a truck

 or to be burnt alongwith his family members

 in brick klin. It was alleged that on 1.6.07

 the goons of Sh DP Yadav had fired at him

 with intention to kill him and thereafter on

 11.7.07 he was administered poison in Aloo Tiki

 by the goons of Sh DP Yadav, regarding which

 a case was registered with PS Sahibabad,

 District Ghaziabad and three persons were also

 arrested in the case. It is also alleged that Sh

 DP Yadav was looking for an opportunity to

 kill his wife, son and his parents in law and

 then falsely implicated Ajay Katara in the

 case. vii) He further alleged that on 10.10.07

 he came to know that Sh DP Yadav had

 conducted a press conference in Delhi and 1060 levelled false allegations against the witness due

 to which he suffered socially, mentally and

 financially. He further alleged that he was

 informed by the President Jhola Chaap Dr

 B K Sharma R/o B 254, Sector­11, Vijay

 Nagar, Ghaziabad belonging to Rashtriya

 Parivartan Dal about the threats of his life

 from Sh DP Yadav that he would be killed

 and then his various parts of the body would

 cut into pieces and burnt. This application was

 marked to DIG Meerut Zone for taking

 necessary action. viii) In the another application dtd.

 29/10/07 he again lodged complaint about

 threats to his life that eight times attempt

 was on his life at the instance of Sh DP Yadav

 and that his wife Tanu Chaudhary and son

 Priyanshu Katara were under the influence of 1061 Sh DP Yadav and that Sh DP Yadav had

 threatened to kill his wife, her family

 members and his son. This application was

 again sent to the DIG Meerut Zone for

 investigation and to provide him additional

 security. ix) The matter was investigated and

 the reply was submitted by the DIG Meerut

 Zone, whereby it was informed that Sh DP

 Yadav is history sheeter and is involve in 29

 criminal cases, out of which 9 cases are U/s

 302 IPC . Keeping in view the criminal history

 of Sh DP Yadav and that attempts were made

 on the life of Ajay Katara, the provisions were

 made for the security of the witness. x) Besides, threatening the witnesses

 the accused persons also misled the police on

 28.2.02 when they took the police to three 1062 places in Alwar for recovery of Tata Safari

while they were already aware of the fact that

the vehicle was not there. The purpose was

only to spend time as only 24 hours were

given to the police for effecting recovery.

Thereafter again when two days police custody

remand was obtained by the IO, the accused

persons saw to it that their custody was not

handed over to the police of Ghaziabad at

Dabra in time and their custody was handed

over to Ghaziabad police on 10.3.02 at about

9:30am, whereas the police custody remand

was to start from 09.03.02 at 2 pm. This

conduct was also to avoid the police from

recovery of Tata Safari. Their conduct further

reflects from the fact that from Dabra they

took the police to Panipat that was again a

tactic to spend time but t was only when they 1063 sternly interrogated they led the police party

 to AB Coltex Karnal and got the same

 recovered. It is the efficiency of the Ghaziabad

 police that despite being misled by the accused

 persons they were able to do their job

 efficiently and fairly. However for the conduct

 of the accused persons adverse inference is

 drawn against him. It provides additional

 link in the chain of the circumstances proved

 by the prosecution against the accused persons. xi) The accused even did not spare

 Spl. public prosecutors as legal notice were

 got issued to the earlier public prosecutor Sh.

 SK Saxena and thereafter to the present Spl.

 public prosecutor Sh BS Joon, though which

 were lateron withdrawn with the intervention

 of the Hon ble High Court of Delhi but it

 shows that these notices were served upon the 1064 Spl. public prosecutors so as to put pressure

upon them not to conduct their case fairly. It

is observed in the authority reported in 

2007 Crl. LJ 2626 Delhi High Court in case H

Syama Sundara Rao Vs Union of India &

Others whereby it was held that 

 "Casti ng aspersions and
 extending threats by issuing notices to the
 Advocate for the opposite side in pending
 litigation containing disparaging and
 derogatory remarks has the effect of
 deterring an Advocate from conducting
 his duties towards his client and
 embarrassing him in the discharge of his
 duties and thus amounts to contempt of
 Court on the very same principles which
 are applicable with regard to the
 criticism of a Judge or a judgment as in
 each such instance, the tendency is to 1065 poison the fountain of justice sully the
stream of judicial administration, by
creating distrust, and pressurizing the
advocates as officers of the Court from
discharging their professional duties as
enjoined upon them towards their clients
for protecting their rights and liberties.
It is the duty of the Courts to protect the
advocate from being cowed down into
submission and under pressure of threat
of menace from any quarter and thus
abandon their clients by withdrawing
pleas taken on their behalf or by
withdrawing pleas taken on their behalf
or by withdrawing from the brief itself,
which may prove fatal not only to the
legal proceeding in question but also
permit an impression to gain ground
that adoption of such tactics are
permissible or even acceptable. Failure 1066 to deal with such conduct and nip it in the
 bud shall result in the justice system
 itself taking a severe knocking, which
 tendency must be put down as it amounts
 to direct interference with the
 administration of justice and is, therefore,
 a contempt of a serious nature.'' xii) In the present case the issuance

 of legal notice to both the Spl. public

 prosecutors casting aspersions on them, in my

 opinion, infact amounts to deterring the

 public prosecutors from conducting the case

 on behalf of the State efficiently and fairly.

 It also amounted to embarrassment to both the

 public prosecutors and amounted to

 interference with the due course of justice.

 Nodoubt by the order of the Hon'ble High

 Court of Delhi the notices were withdrawn, 1067 however definitely an attempt was made by

 the accused persons to put pressure upon the

 public prosecutors from discharging their

 professional duties enjoyed upon them towards

 the State. xiii) The record also speaks that a

 transfer petition was filed by the complainant

 PW 30 Mrs Neelam Katara in the Hon ble

 Supreme Court of India whereby she had

 alleged that she would not be getting fair trial

 in Ghaziabad due to money and muscle power

 of Sh. DP Yadav and the Apex Court vide

 order dtd. 23.08.2002 transferred the present

 case from the Court of District & Sessions

 Judge Ghaziabad to the Sessions Court in Delhi.

 It is observed in the order by the Honble

 Apex Court as follows:­ 1068 "fr om the narration of facts
 as well as the materials on record we are
 of the considered opinion that
 atmosphere at Ghaziabad is not
 congenial for continuance of the
 criminal proceedings and the
 apprehension of the mother cannot be
 said to be fanciful one nor can it be said
 to be unfounded." xiv) In view of the above discussion the

conduct of the accused persons have throughout

been to mislead the Court and to put pressure

upon the witnesses or to give them temptations

so that they did not depose against them before

the Court which amounts to an additional link in

the chain of circumstances proved by the

prosecution against them. 32. It is observed that the murder of Nitish 1069 Katara was an honour killing by the accused

persons as they did not like their sister having

affair with a boy of different caste and they

could never accept her plans to marry him. The

motive for Nitish's murder can thus be better

understood in the context of socio cultural

framework of society where in some sections of

society from birth repressive socialisation of girls

ensures that they are kept unaware of their rights

and are made to play subordinate role to their

brothers. It is not digested by the elder male

members of the family , particularly, the brothers

that a female exercises her right to chose a male

partner of her own choice which often leads to

shocking and macabre consequences, as it

happened in the present case. The murder of

deceased Nitish Katara is nothing but the

outcome of this prevalent gender bias as Bharti 1070 Yadav had exercised her own discretion in

choosing her male partner ie Nitish Katara and

was about to execute her plans to marry him

which was not to the liking of the accused

persons and the result was that a young innocent

boy lost his life at their hands. 33. In view of the above discussion the

prosecution has proved on record that Nitish and

Bharti had love affair and wanted to marry but

accused persons, her brothers did not approve her

such relationship and on finding an appropriate

opportunity in furtherance of their common

intention alongwith their co­accused Sukhdev

Yadav abducted him from Diamond Palace on the

night of 16/2/02 where he was attending the

marriage of PW Shivani Gaur from where accused

Vishal Yadav on the pretext of talking to him 1071 took him out of Diamond Palace. It is also proved

vide positive evidence that the deceased and

accused were seen together by PW33 at midnight

on 16­17/2/02 at Hapur Chungi and thereafter the

dead body of the deceased in burnt condition

was spotted at Shikarpur Road on 17/2/02 at 9am

by PW23 Virender. In view of the circumstances

of the case , particularly when accused persons

failed to explain as to how and where the

deceased parted their company and in view of

the false plea of alibi taken by the accused

persons , the possibility of any other person being

the author of the crime is impossible. Thus, in my

view the prosecution has proved beyond

reasonable doubt from circumstantial evidence

that the accused had abducted the deceased from

Diamond Palace on the night of 16/2/02 and

thereafter committed his murder. It is also proved 1072 on record that the dead body of unidentified

person which was lateron identified to be of

Nitish Katara was recovered from Shikarpur Road

in burnt condition and the burns were found to

be postmortem as deposed by PW3 Dr. Anil

Singhal who conducted the postmortem on the

dead body. This circumstance leads to the

inference that it is the accused persons who after

killing Nitish katara burnt his deadbody to cause

disappearance of evidence with the intention of

screening themselves from legal punishment. In

view of the above discussion the prosecution has

proved its case beyond reasonable doubt through

circumstantial evidence and the facts established

through circumstantial evidence are consistent

only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the

accused persons. There is a complete chain of

circumstantial evidence proved on record by the 1073 prosecution which in my opinion has left no

ground for the conclusion consistent with the

innocence of the accused. The circumstances so

proved show that in all human probability the

crime was committed by the accused persons.

Hence, I hold both the accused Vikas Yadav and

Vishal Yadav guilty and convict them for the

offences punishable U/s 364/302/201/34 IPC . 

Announced in Open Court (Ravinder Kaur)
Date : 28/5/08 ASJ : New Delhi 1074 IN THE COURT OF MS RAVINDER KAUR, ASJ,
 NEW DELHI SC No. 78/02 STATE VS 1 VIKAS YADAV 
 S/o Sh. DP Yadav
 R/o R 4/16, Raj Nagar
 Ghaziabad (UP). 2 VISHAL YADAV 
 S/o Late Sh Kamal Raj
 R/o R­5/45, Raj Nagar
 Ghaziabad (UP). FIR No. 192/02 PS Kavi Nagar, 
U/s 364/302/201/34 IPC ORDER ON SENTENCE
Pr.: Sh. BS Joon, Spl. PP for State
Sh. Kaushik Dey, counsel for the complainant. 
Convict Vikas Yadav in custody with Sh. KN
Balgopal and Sh. GK Bharti, advocates.
Convict Vishal Yadav in custody with Sh. SK
Sharma, adv. I have heard arguments from the 1075 counsel of both the convicts as well as Spl. PP

for State on the point of sentence. Adv Sh KN Balgopal has submitted

that in the present case, the convict Vikas

Yadav does not deserve the capital punishment.

It is submitted that the convict though was

detained under National Security Act , however

the Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad had

quashed the detention order and the appeal by

the Government was also dismissed by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court. Regarding the

conviction of convict Vikas Yadav in Jessica

Lal's murder case, it is submitted that he was

convicted U/s 201 IPC for destruction of

evidence by the Hon'ble High Court and the

appeal is pending before the Hon'ble Supreme

Court. It is submitted that there was direct

evidence of killing in the Jessica Lal's murder 1076 case but the Hon'ble High Court had only

 awarded life imprisonment to the main accused

 Manu Sharma. The defence counsel has referred

 to judgment of Bachan Singh 's case reported in

 1980(2) SCC 684 wherein certain mitigating

 circumstances were suggested by Dr. Chitaley to

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court to be taken into

 consideration as to whether the death penalty

 shall be awarded in a particular case or not .

 These are the following circumstances suggested

 by Dr. Chitaley : The defence counsel has submitted that

the mitigating circumstance in the present case in

favour of convict Vikas Yadav is that he

committed the aforesaid crime under emotional

disturbance since the theme of the present case is

that the convicts did not like the relationship of

their sister with the deceased. The defence 1078 counsel has further cited authorities reported in Alok Nath Dutta Vs State of West Bengal 2006

(13) VI Scale 467 and Amrit Singh Vs State of

Punjab reported in AIR 2007 SC Page 132. It is

submitted that in both these authorities it was

held by the Hon'ble Apex Court that the manner

of commission of offence may be gruesome but

the method applied cannot be said to be cruel. The defence counsel has also cited an authority

reported in AIR 2007 SC 848 Bishnu Prasad Sinha

Vs State of Assam whereby a 7 / 8 year old girl

who was traveling alongwith her parents and her

younger brother in a private transport service on

their way to Dimapur in the state of Nagaland,

they reached Network Travels Complex at Paltan

Bazaar Guwahati at around 10:30pm on 12/7/02.

There was no connecting bus to Dimapur at that

time, so they were advised to stay over for the 1079 night at Guwahati. Appellant No. 1 was a night

chowkidar of the waiting room of the said

Network Travels. He represented that he could

stay there for the night and should not have any

apprehension of their safety. At night they all

slept and at around 3am Aniba Deb woke up as

her son cried and she found that her daughter

was missing. The matter was reported to the

police. The flush in the toilet was found not

working and the sweeper Amardeep was asked to

found out the reason and when he opened the

septic tank he saw the head of the small child.

Lateron during investigation, the appellant No. 1

made confessional statement before the Magistrate

U/s 164 Cr.PC about lifting of the girl, committing

rape and then murdering her. Since there was no

eye witness the case was based on circumstantial

evidence. The Hon'ble Apex Court held that it 1080 was not a case where extreme death penalty

should be imposed. The defence counsel has submitted that

in the present case also the convicts do not

deserve extreme death penalty as the murder was

not committed in a brutal or diabolic manner as

there was only one blow with a hammer on the

skull of the deceased which as per the

postmortem report was sufficient to cause death

in the ordinary course of nature. Regarding the

burns on the dead body it is submitted that these

were postmortem burns and the deceased was not

burnt alive. It is further submitted that convict

Vikas Yadav is MBA and a qualified engineer,

recently engaged and had a future. It is further

submitted that the present case do not fall within

the category of rarest of rare cases to invite

extreme death penalty. Adv SK Sharma, the counsel for convict

Vishal Yadav has adopted the arguments of Sh.

KN Balgopal, counsel for convict Vikas Yadav. On the other hand Ld. APP has submitted

that convict Vikas Yadav was involved in 3 cases

before his involvement in the present case. The

first case was registered against him Us 302 IPC in the year 1991 but the same was withdrawn by

the prosecution in the year 1994 when his father

was Minister. The other case in which he was

involved in the year 1999 was Jessica Lal 's case

wherein he was convicted U/s 201 IPC and while

he was on bail in that case , the present case was

registered against him. It is further submitted that

one case under Arms Act within the jurisdiction

of Dabra MP is also pending against him. It is

submitted that convict Vishal is facing trial under Arms Act at Dabra MP. 2 cases were registered 1082 against him in the year 2000 ie U/s 279/337 IPC and another U/s 61 Punjab Excise Act . It is

submitted that the argument of the defence

counsel that the offence was committed by the

convicts on account of emotional disturbance is

not tenable and that if it was so then why did

they spare Bharti Yadav. It is submitted that if

the convicts are useful to society whether the

deceased was not useful to the society and did

not have any future or was not qualified. Ld. Spl.

PP has submitted that both the convicts deserve

extreme penalty of death in the present case and

has relied upon authority reported in AIR 1983

SCC 470 Machi Singh Vs State of Punjab whereby

it was held that in the rarest of the rare cases

when the collective conscience of the community

is so shocked, that it will expect the holders of

the judicial power centre to inflict death penalty 1083 irrespective of their personal opinion as regards

desirability or otherwise of retaining death

penalty, death sentence can be awarded. The

community may entertain such sentiment in the

following circumstances: or cold­blooded murder for gains of a person
 vis­a­vis whom the murderer is in a dominating
 position or in a position of trust; or murder is
 committed int eh course for betrayal of the
 motherland. 3) When murder of a member of a Scheduled
 Caste or minority community etc, is committed
 not for personal reasons but in circumstances
 which arouse social wrath; or in cases of 'bride
 burning' or 'dowry deaths' or when murder is 1084 committed in order to remarry for the sake of
 extracting dowry once again or to marry
 another woman on account of infatuation. 4) When the crime is enormous in proportion. For
 instance when multiple murders, say of all or
 almost all them members of a family or a large
 number of persons of a particular caste,
 community, or locality, are committed. 5) When the victim of murder is an innocent
 child, or a helpless woman or old or infirm
 person or a person vis­a­vis whom the
 murderer is in a dominating position, or a
 public figure generally loved and respected by
 the community. The prosecution has submitted that the

present case falls within the 1st and 2nd

circumstance as laid down in the authority

reported above. The prosecution has also relied

upon the authority State Vs Sushil Sharma reported in 2007 Vo.l II AD (CR) (DHC) 289 where

the deceased Naina Sahni after being killed in 1085 gruesome manner, bullets were noticed embedded

in her skull and neck region and was thereafter

burnt in a Tandoor. It is claimed that in this case

also appellant was given death penalty on the

ground that the act of the appellant reflected

extreme depravity when he killed Naina Sahni

and dealt with her body in a gruesome manner

which must have shocked the conscience of the

community at large. The prosecution has further

relied upon the authority reported in 1999 SCC

Page 581 wherein the two convicted accused had

after raping and murdering one girl had thrown

her dead body into a septic tank. This post­crime

conduct of the convicts was commented upon by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in these words ''the

accused did not even stop there but they

exhibited the criminality in their conduct by

throwing the dead body into the septic tank 1086 totally disregarding the respect for a human

body''. The Spl. PP for State has prayed that both

the accused deserve extreme penalty of death. After hearing the submissions of both the

parties I have gone through the relevant

authorities cited by both the parties. The relevant

authorities are Bachan Singhs reported in AIR

1980 SC 898 and Machi Singhs 1983 (3) SCC 470

and the latest authority of the Hon'ble Apex

Court bishnu Prasad Singh Vs State of Assam AIR

2007 SC 848 whereby the principles have been

laid down as to in what circumstances the death

penalty should be resorted to. As argued by Spl.

PP for State that out of the 5 circumstances laid

down in the case of Machi Singh vs State of

Punjab referred above, circumstance No. 1 and 2

are applicable to the facts and circumstance of

the present case, I have carefully gone through 1087 these circumstances. The circumstance No. 1 is the manner

of commission of murder. It is held that when a

murder is committed in an extremely brutal,

grotesque, diabolical, revolting and dastardly

manner so as to arouse intense and extreme

indignation to the community for instance : Similarly, the other circumstance ie

motive for commission of murder is explained in

the following manner : It is held that life imprisonment is a

rule and death is an exception. Death sentence

must be imposed only when the life

imprisonment appears to be an altogether

inadequate punishment having regard to the

relevant circumstances of the crime. In Bishnu

Prasad's case where the girl was raped and

murdered and then her dead body was thrown in

the septic tank it was held by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court that it was not a case where

extreme death penalty should be imposed. In view of the above discussion, in my

opinion the present case do not fall within the

ambit of any of the circumstances as laid down

in the case of Machi Singh Vs State of Punjab to

award extreme penalty of death to the convicts.

The postmortem report speaks of only single 1090 injury on the skull of the deceased which is

proved to have been caused by hammer Ex.P1

which in my opinion cannot be termed as a

murder in a brutal or diabolical manner. I cannot

loose sight of the fact that there were 3 accused

persons but only one injury is found on the

person of the deceased ie on his skull which was

the cause of his death which in my opinion is a

great mitigating circumstance in favour of the

convicts. Besides, the destruction of evidence by

the convicts after the murder of the deceased, by

burning his dead body, in my opinion is a

separate offence U/s 201 IPC and it does not

invite the extreme penalty of death. Moreover, in

my opinion it is not the death penalty which is

deterred in which a person is hanged to death in

few seconds, to the contrary it is the life

imprisonment which is deterred wherein the 1091 convict dies every moment in the Jail. In the

present case, in my opinion it would meet the

ends of justice if the convicts are awarded life

imprisonment. Hence, both the convicts are awarded life
imprisonment and sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.
1 lakh each U/s 302/34 IPC in default each to
undergo 1 year SI. Both the convicts are further sentenced to RI
for 10 years and fine of Rs. 50,000/­ each U/s
364/34 IPC in default each to under SI for 6
months. Both the convicts are further sentenced to RI
for 5 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/­ each
U/s 201 /34 IPC in default each to undergo SI for
3 months . All the sentences shall run concurrently. 

 File be consigned to RR.