Date of commission of offence : 27.04.2019 2. Name of the Complainant : Ct. Krishan 3. Name of the accused,
 and his parentage and residence : Deepak Chaudhary S/o Sh. Bhupender Chaudhary, R/o
 H.No.B-3/673, Raghubir
 Nagar, Khyala, Delhi 4. Date when judgment : 12.03.2025
 was reserved 5. Date when Judgment : 16.04.2025
 was pronounced 6. Offence Complained of : Section 33 / 38 of Delhi
 or proved Excise Act 2009 7. Plea of accused : Pleaded not guilty Digitally
 signed by
 SUKRITI
 SUKRITI SINGH
 SINGH Date: 8. Final Judgment : Acquitted 16:38:07
 +0530

FIR No. 140/2019 State Vs Deepak Chaudhary U/s 33/38 Delhi Excise Act 1 1. BRIEF FACTUAL POSITION:- Digitally
 signed by
 SUKRITI
 SUKRITI SINGH
 SINGH Date: 2. MATERIAL EVIDENCE IN BRIEF: Thereafter, the said gatta petties were checked and they were found to be 08
 in number. The said gatta pettes were found containing quarters of illicit
 liquor. Thereafter, PW-1 transmitted the abovesaid information to the Duty

FIR No. 140/2019 State Vs Deepak Chaudhary U/s 33/38 Delhi Excise Act 4
 Digitally
 signed by
 SUKRITI
 SUKRITI SINGH
 SINGH Date: FIR No. 140/2019 State Vs Deepak Chaudhary U/s 33/38 Delhi Excise Act 5 Digitally signed by SUKRITI SUKRITI SINGH
 SINGH Date: On that day, he alongwith Ct. Krishan were on patrolling duty in the area of
 PS Khyala. At around 08.50 pm, when they reached near Ganda Nala Road,
 Raghubir Nagar they saw one person having one white colour gatta petti on
 his shoulder and was going towards the houses near 12.5 Gaj, Ganda Nala
 Road, Raghurbir Nagar. They found him suspicious and he was apprehended
 by them. On being asked, the said person revealed his name as Deepak
 Chaudhary. Thereafter, the said gatta petties were checked and they were
 found to be 8 in number. The said gatta pettes were found containing quarters
 of illicit liquor. Thereafter, Ct. Krishan transmitted the abovesaid information
 to the Duty Officer, PP Raghubir Nagar and on the basis of the same, HC
 Gajraj came to the spot and they handed over the custody of accused
 alongwith gatta petties to him. HC Gajraj checked the gatta petties and they
 were found to be containing 48 quarter bottles in each gatta petties bearing the
 label of 'Impact Grain Whisky for sale in Haryana only' 180 ml each. In total,
 there were 384 quarter bottles. Thereafter, out of the said 8 gatta petties, one
 quarter bottle each was taken out as sample and moored with white cloth from
 the bottleneck and sealed with the seal of 'GR'. In total there were 8 quarter
 bottle samples and they were given serial no.1A - 8A respectively and the rest
 of the quarter bottles were kept in the said 8 gatta petties and sealed with the
 seal of 'GR' and were given serial no. 1-8 respectively. Form M-29 was
 prepared by HC Gajraj and after seizure, the seal was handed over to PW-2.
 Thereafter, HC Gajraj recorded statement of HC Krishan and on the basis of
 the same, tehrir was prepared by HC Gajraj and was handed over to PW-2 for

FIR No. 140/2019 State Vs Deepak Chaudhary U/s 33/38 Delhi Excise Act 6 Digitally signed by SUKRITI SUKRITI SINGH Date: SINGH 2025.04.16
 16:38:34
 +0530
 registration of FIR. PW-2 went to the PS and got the FIR registered. After
 registration of FIR, PW-2 returned back to the spot and handed over the
 original tehrir and copy of FIR to HC Gajraj. Thereafter, the FIR number was
 put on the abovementioned documents. HC Gajraj prepared the seal handing
 over memo. The seal after use was handed over to Ct Krishan. Thereafter, the
 disclosure statement of accused was recorded. Accused Deepak was
 personally searched and arrested vide memos respectively. After the medical
 examination of accused Deepak, he was sent to lock up and the case property
 was deposited in the malkhana. IO recorded statement of PW-2. The witness
 was duly cross-examined by the defence. 2.4 PW- 3 was ASI Gajraj who deposed that on 27.04.2019 he was posted
 at PP Raghubir, PS Khyala as Head constable and was on duty. On that day,
 the present case was received by him vide DD No 23. Then he reached the
 spot near Ganda Nala Road, Raghubir Nagar at around 09.15 PM where he
 met Ct. Krishan and Ct. Rakesh who handed over the custody of the accused
 Deepak Chaudhary and case property to him. Then, PW-3 asked 4-5 public
 persons to join the investigation but they refused the same and left the spot
 without disclosing their name and address. Due to paucity of time, no notice
 was served to them. Thereafter, PW-3 recorded the statement of Ct. Krishan
 and thereafter, he checked the recovered 8 gatta pettis containing 48 quarter
 bottles of illicit liquor in each gatta petties bearing the label of 'Impact Grain
 Whisky for sale in Haryana only' 180 mi each. In total, there were 384 quarter
 bottles. Thereafter, out of the said 8 gatta petties one quarter bottle each was
 taken out as sample and moored with white cloth from the bottleneck and

FIR No. 140/2019 State Vs Deepak Chaudhary U/s 33/38 Delhi Excise Act Digitally 7
 signed by
 SUKRITI
 SUKRITI SINGH
 SINGH Date: 3. STATEMENT OF ACCUSED U/S 313 Cr.P.C : 4. ARGUMENTS: 5.1 In the present case, the accused person has been charged with the
 offence U/s 33/38 Delhi Excise Act , for being found in possession of illicit
 liquor without any licence, permit or pass, and in contravention of the
 notification issued by the Delhi Government. Digitally
 signed by
 SUKRITI
 SUKRITI SINGH
 SINGH Date: 5.3 Section 38 of Delhi Excise Act, 2009 states that: examination that he had asked public persons to join the investigation but
 admitted that no notice was served and their names and addresses were not
 noted. 5.5 When a statutory provision mandates that an independent witness has
 to be joined in the investigation, the IO is duty bound to comply with the
 same. Merely stating that the public persons refused to join the investigation
 is not sufficient to serve the purpose of the prosecuting agency, more so,
 when the IO failed to even record the names and details of such person, and

FIR No. 140/2019 State Vs Deepak Chaudhary U/s 33/38 Delhi Excise Act Digitally 11 signed by
 SUKRITI
 SUKRITI SINGH
 SINGH Date: Provided that, if such person is not resident in
 India, the bond shall be secured by a surety or
 sureties resident in India. (3) Should the true name and residence of such
 person not be ascertained within twenty-four
 hours from the time of arrest, or should he fail to
 execute the bond, or, if so required, to furnish
 sufficient sureties, he shall forthwith be
 forwarded to the nearest Magistrate having
 jurisdiction". Section 187 IPC states that, " whoever, being
 bound by law to render or furnish assistance to
 any public servant in the execution of his public
 duty, intentionally omits to give such assistance,
 shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a
 term which may extend to one month, or with
 fine which may extend to two hundred rupees, or
 with both; and if such assistance be demanded of
 him by a public servant legally competent to
 make such demand for the purpose of executing
 any process lawfully issued by a Court of Justice,
 or of preventing the commission of an offence, or
 of suppressing a riot, or affray, or of
 apprehending a person charged with or guilty of
 an offence, or of having escaped from lawful
 custody, shall be punished with simple
 imprisonment for a term which may extend to six Digitally signed
 by SUKRITI
 months, or with fine which may extend to five SUKRITI SINGH
 Date: In Roop Chand Vs. State of Haryana reported in 1990 (1) CLR 69, the
 Hon'ble High Court of Punjab and Haryana observed that such explanations
 that public persons refused to join the proceedings are unreliable. Moreover,
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India also noted in the case of Pradeep
 Narayana Vs. State of Maharashtra AIR 1995 SE 930 that failure of the police
 to get persons from the locality to join the investigation during search creates
 doubt about its fairness, benefit of which has to be given to the accused. In the
 present matter, hence, the chances of false implication and planted recovery,
 as alleged by the defence, cannot be ruled out. 5.7 There are other discrepancies casting a doubt over the prosecution
 chain of events. For instance, PW-1 and PW2 had stated in the cross-
 examination that seal handing over memo was prepared at the PS, in
 contradiction to their examination-in-chief. Moreover, PW2 stated that he had
 taken the tehrir to the police Station and returned at 11:00 PM, while also
 having earlier stated that he finally left the spot with the other police officials
 at 11:00 PM, failing to explain when the interim proceedings took place. PW1
 did not recall any such time while PW3 stated that PW2 took the rukka at
 10:30 PM, returned at 11:00 PM and they all left the spot at 11:45 PM. There
 is also a contradiction in the statement given regarding mode of transporting
 the case property back to the police station. PW1 and PW3 claimed that the
 case property was taken to the police station in an e-rickshaw but failed to
 give any particulars of such vehicle or its driver. On the other hand, PW2

FIR No. 140/2019 State Vs Deepak Chaudhary U/s 33/38 Delhi Excise Act 14 Digitally signed by SUKRITI SUKRITI SINGH
 SINGH Date: Admittedly, the seal was never handed over to any independent person and
 remained with the officials of the same police station, if not the IO himself.
 Tampering with the case property as well as the seal cannot be ruled out in
 such a case as it remained within the reach of the IO. No independent witness
 was examined with respect to the same and no photography or videography
 was done during recovery, sealing or seizure proceedings. In a case where
 only police witnesses are available, it becomes incumbent upon such officials
 to comply with all procedural requirements and failure of the same shall work
 in the favour of the accused. Further all the witnesses admitted that no
 identification or batch number of the remaining case property was noted so
 the prosecution has nothing on record to corroborate the contents of the
 destroyed property with contents of the sample bottles sent to the Excise Lab. 5.9 The cardinal principle of law that the prosecution has to prove its case
 beyond all reasonable doubts, remains the dictating factor. The standard of
 proof in criminal cases is not preponderance of probabilities but proof beyond

FIR No. 140/2019 State Vs Deepak Chaudhary U/s 33/38 Delhi Excise Act 15 Digitally signed by SUKRITI SUKRITI SINGH
 SINGH Date: