Instant petition under Article 226 of Constitution of India is preferred
 against the following reliefs. 2. The main grievance of the petitioner is that a person who is not Signature Not Verified Signed by: LOKENDRA JAIN Signing time: 5/14/2025 4:23:59 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-GWL:10501

 2 WP-15990-2025
 having valid qualifications to run a physiotherapy center, infringing
 registered trademark of the petitioner is rendering medical services and had
 managed to acquire the licence under Madhya Pradesh Upcharyagriha Tatha
 Rajopchar Sambandi Sthapanaye (Registrikaran Tatha Anugyapan)
 Adhiniyam, 1973 (for short "The Adhiniyam, 1973") and even though a
 complaint vide Annexure P/1 has been made to respondent No. 2 for
 cancellation of his licence, till date no action had been taken against the said
 person and he is allowed to run a physiotherapy center for which he is not
 authorized. 3. In support of his contentions, learned counsel for the petitioner had
 submitted that one Mr. Trivendra Kumar Kaushik is offering Medical
 Services without any authority or degree or licence and misrepresenting

 himself as a Doctor and using the International Symbol called Caduceus
 which is used internationally to represent a qualified doctor, for which, he
 has no permission or right and claims to have obtained his degree in
 Bachelor of Physiotherapy (BPT) from Indian Council of Medico Technicals
 & Health Care, however, the said collage had no reference on the Internet
 and also since the certificate contains statements like "... he has completed
 his regular/distance education study in medical subjects" goes to show that
 this degree is a complete scam and fraudulent degree, therefore, action be
 taken under Section 5 of the Adhiniyam, 1973 and its registration under the
 said Adhiniyam be cancelled, but the said complaint made by the present
 petitioner has not given any heed till date and on the contrary the said person
 is allowed to run a physiotherapy center which is an utter violation of Signature Not Verified Signed by: LOKENDRA JAIN Signing time: 5/14/2025 4:23:59 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-GWL:10501

 3 WP-15990-2025
 Trademarks Act, 1999 also, as in the same name, the petitioner is running the
 physiotherapy center prior to the said person, thus, he prayed that a writ of
 mandamus be issued to respondent No. 2 to initiate action against the said
 person i.e. Mr. Trivendra Kumar Kaushik. 4. On the other hand, learned counsel for respondents/State had raised
 a preliminary objection that the status of the present petitioner is doubt the
 complaint as the law with regard to agitating the grievance as an adversarial
 litigant and the complaint is very well settled by the Hon'ble Apex Court in
 the case of Ravi Yashwant Bhoir Vs. District Collector, Raigad and others reported in (2012)4 SCC 407, therefore, the present petition deserves to be
 dismissed. 5. It is further argued that the present petition, at the hands of the
 petitioner, is not maintainable as he is a complainant and, in that capacity, he
 can only lead evidence as a witness and cannot claim the status of an
 adversarial litigant, therefore, no writ of mandamus is required to be issued
 to respondent No. 2 to conduct any enquiry or even decide the complaint or
 representation of the petitioner and if the petitioner wants to get the
 complaint decided, then he may again approach the authority and request it
 to decide his complaint, thus it was submitted that the present petition, being
 not maintainable, is liable to be dismissed. 6. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. 7. The Apex Court in the case of Ayub Khan Noorkhan Pathan VS.
 State of Maharashtra ((2013) 4 SCC 465) has considered the maintainability

 of the petition on the ground of locus standi of a person. The Apex Court has Signature Not Verified Signed by: LOKENDRA JAIN Signing time: 5/14/2025 4:23:59 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-GWL:10501

 4 WP-15990-2025
 held that the person aggrieved must be one whose right of interest has been
 adversely affected or jeopardized. In the aforesaid decision, the judgment
 which has been cited by learned counsel for the State in the case of Ravi
 Yashwant Bhoir (Supra) had been quoted. To adjudicate the controversy,
 this Court deems it appropriate to quote the relevant extract of the judgment
 rendered in the case of Ravi Yashwant Bhoir (Supra). The relevant
 paragraphs are herein quoted below:- 5 WP-15990-2025
 has to establish that he has a proprietary right which has been or is
 threatened to be violated, for the reason that a legal injury creates
 a remedial right in the injured person. A person cannot be heard as
 a party unless he answers the description of aggrieved party.
 (Vide: Adi Pherozshah Gandhi v. H.M. Seervai, Advocate General
 of Maharashtra , AIR 1971 SC 385; Jasbhai Motibhai Desai v.
 Roshan Kumar, Haji Bashir Ahmed & Ors. , AIR 1976 SC 578; Maharaj Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. , AIR 1976 SC
 2602; Ghulam Qadir v. Special Tribunal & Ors. , (2002) 1 SCC
 33; and Kabushiki Kaisha Toshiba v. Tosiba Appliances Company
 & Ors. , (2008) 10 SCC 766). The High Court failed to appreciate
 that it was a case of political rivalry. The case of the appellant has
 not been considered in correct perspective at all." 8. From the aforesaid it is very much clear that the complainant can
 only act as an witness in any lis initiated at his instance, but cannot act as an
 adversial litigant and agitate the claim against any person and seek for
 issuance of any kind of writ. 9. From the reliefs which have been claimed, it could be seen that
 there is a simple prayer for deciding his complaint or his representation, but
 the effect of the said decision , on his complaint/representation could
 prejudice by the person against whom said compliant is made. Also it is not a
 simplicitor case of infringement of his personal rights, which have been
 agitated and had not been decided by the authorities, rather the petitioner is
 complaining against infringement of the provisions of certain Act by a
 person, which is sole domain of the authorities concerned and since it has
 been brought to the notice of that authority, the petitioner could only
 persuade the authorities to take appropriate decision in the matter. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-GWL:10501

 6 WP-15990-2025 10. So far as the personal rights of the present petitioner is concerned,
 the only grievance appears to be that infringement of registered Trademark
 of his establishment namely, Pushkar Pain Clinic Evam Physiotherapy
 Center, for which, according to this Court appropriate remedy to the
 petitioner would be by filing a civil suit, as the said infringement is required
 to be proved by way of evidence and since the said aspect involves in it
 disputed questions of facts it cannot be gone into in writ jurisdiction. 11. Hence, there is no sum and substance in the present petition, is
 accordingly dismissed. However, petitioner would be at liberty to agitate his
 grievance before respondent No. 2 again or to some higher forum. If the
 petitioner approaches respondent No. 2, he is directed to grant him audience. (MILIND RAMESH PHADKE)
 JUDGE

 (LJ*) Signature Not Verified Signed by: LOKENDRA JAIN Signing time: 5/14/2025 4:23:59 PM