Hon'ble Mrs. Manju Rani Chauhan,J. (Per:-Manju Rani Chauhan, J.) 1.	This writ petition has been filed by the petitioner seeking quashment of first information report dated 24th May, 2021 in respect of Crime No. 0036 of 2021, under Sections 185 , 477-A , 409 , 120-B and 420 of I.P.C. Police Station-Kakavan, District-Kanpur Nagar. 2.	Heard Mr. Uttar Kumar Goswami, learned counsel for the petitioner and Mr. J.K. Upadhyay, learned A.G.A. for the State-respondents. 3.	The first information report has been lodged on 24th May, 2021 at 18:03 hrs by S.N. Khare against six named accused persons, namely, Rajesh Kumar, Surendra Kumar, Sohil Kumar, Accountant Atul Sharma, Hariom Sharma (petitioner herein) and Anuj Traders regarding financial irregularity and scam at Wheat Purchase Centre, P.C.F. Farmer Service Centres, Vishdhan, Sindhauli and Aroul. In the first information report, it has been alleged that in a surprise inspection carried out at the aforesaid farmer service centres, purchasing centre In-Charge, namely, Rajesh Kumar, Surendra Kumar and Shahil Kumar were present. It was informed by the concerned Centre In-charge that concerned records, government grants (Bardana), Stencil Machine were not available at the Centres. In their written statements, it has been stated that at the behest of Atul Sharma (Accountant), District Office, P.C.F. Kanpur Nagar and Hariom Sharma (petitioner herein), Regional Director, P.C.F., Kanpur Division, Kanpur, the work of purchasing of wheat is being carried out from Rice Mill (Anuj Traders, Vishdhan). On the basis of aforesaid statements, when the Assistant Commissioner and Assistant Registrar raided the place of Anuj Traders, Vishdhan, government bags of wheat containing 200 quintal (four gath i.e. each gath contains 50 kgs. of wheat) and stencils of aforesaid three centres were recovered and on the rice mill itself, purchase of wheat has been found to be done in the names of aforesaid three centres. On the basis of statements of concerned Centre In-charge and the raid carried out by the Assistant Commissioner and Assistant Registrar and the recovery made by them, the named accused persons, including the petitioner were found guilty of carrying out illegal government grants and purchase of wheat at the aforesaid three centres and the present first information report has been lodged. 4.	In support of his case, learned counsel for the petitioner has advanced following arguments: (II) Only due to enmity and for harassing the petitioner, so that the image of the petitioner may be tarnished, respondent no.4 has lodged the impugned first information report falsely implicating him. As such, the impugned first information report is illegal, as the allegations levelled against the petitioner in the said report, is based on false and concocted story. 5. Perusal of the entire record indicates that the petitioner has not committed any offence under Sections 185 , 477-A , 409 , 120-B and 420 I.P.C., Police Station-Kakavan, District-Kanpur. Petitioner has no criminal antecedents to his credit except the present one. On the cumulative strength of the aforesaid arguments, learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner is innocent, the contents of the impugned F.I.R. are concocted, tutored and vague in nature and the charges as alleged in the impugned F.I.R. are vague one, hence the impugned F.I.R. is liable to be quashed. 5.(I)	 Learned Additional Government Advocate, on the other hand, opposed the prayer for quashing the impugned F.I.R. and has argued that on the complaint of the informant, S.N. Khare, who is said to be Additional District Cooperative Officer, Bilhore Tehsil In-charge, Bilhore, Kanpur Nagar, the impugned F.I.R. has been registered against six named accused persons including the petitioner herein, in which, there is specific allegation that on the advise of the petitioner and co-accused Atul Sharma, who is said to be the Accountant, District Office P.C.F., Kanpur Nagar, the work of purchase of wheat was being carried out from Anuj Trader, Vishdhan. On the raid, illegal government bags of 200 quintal wheat and stencils of the three centres referred to above have been recovered from Anuj Trader, Vishdhan. Therefore, when the matter is at the state of investigation, it cannot be said that the petitioner is innocent and allegations made in the impugned F.I.R. are mala fide, false, concocted or vague and the petitioner has been falsely implicated in the present case. He, therefore, submits that argument nos. 1 and 2 advanced by the learned counsel for the petitioner cannot be examined at this stage. (II)	So far as argument no.3 advanced on behalf of the petitioner is concerned, in reply, learned A.G.A. for the State submits that no prior permission or approval from the higher authorities is required before registering the first information report against a public/government servant. (III)	Elaborating the aforesaid submission, learned A.G.A. has referred to Section 197 of Cr.P.C., wherein it has been provided that only at the stage of cognizance against a public/government servant, prior permission or approval from the higher authorities/State, as the case may, is required. Therefore, the said submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner has no legs to stand. (IV)	In regard to argument no.4 (I) advanced on behalf of the petitioner, learned A.G.A. submits that it is settled law that every person has a right to lodge a first information report against a person, who in his presence, commits a non-bailable or cognizable offence. Therefore, the argument advanced on behalf of the petitioner that since respondent no.4 is junior to the petitioner, he has no power to make any complaint against him, has no legs to stand. (V)	To the other argument made on behalf of the petitioner i.e., No. 4 (II) that due to enmity and harassing the petitioner as well as tarnishing his image, respondent no.4 has made false complaint against the petitioner, learned A.G.A. submits that the same cannot be accepted, as there is nothing on record, which establishes that there is any enmity or any rivalry between the petitioner and respondent no.4. (VI)	So far as argument no.5 advanced on behalf the petitioner is concerned, learned A.G.A. submits that at the stage of investigation, it cannot be examined as to whether the petitioner is involved in the commission of the alleged offence or not. On the cumulative strength of the aforesaid, learned A.G.A. submits that from perusal of the impugned F.I.R. it cannot be said that no cognizable offence is made out, hence the writ petition is liable to be dismissed. 6.	We have examined the submissions advanced by the learned Counsel for the petitioner and learned AGA and also gone through the material brought on record. 7.	Normally, this Court would have issued notice to respondent no.4, but no purpose would be served by keeping this petition pending, inasmuch as the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned A.G.A. for the State agree that this petition may be disposed of at this stage, without issuing notice to respondent no.4 as well as without calling for any further affidavits. 8.	Before entering into the merits of the case set up by the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned A.G.A. for the State, it would be worthwhile to reproduce the offences, which are alleged to have been committed by the named accused persons in the first information report including the petitioner herein, which are being quoted herein below: 420. Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property.--Whoever cheats and thereby dishonestly induces the person deceived to deliver any property to any person, or to make, alter or destroy the whole or any part of a valuable security, or anything which is signed or sealed, and which is capable of being converted into a valuable security, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine." 9.	The legal position on the issue of quashing of FIR or criminal proceedings is well-settled that the jurisdiction to quash a complaint, FIR or a charge-sheet should be exercised sparingly and only in exceptional cases. The Courts should not ordinarily interfere with the investigations of cognizable offences. However, where the allegations made in the FIR or the complaint, even if taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety, do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out a case against the accused, FIR or the charge-sheet may be quashed in exercise of powers under Article 226 or inherent powers under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. 10.	The Apex Court rendered in the case of the State of Telangana v. Habib Abdullah Jeelani and Others reported in 2017 (2) SCC 779, wherein in paragraph nos. 13 and 23, it has been observed as follows: 11. In the latest judgment, the Apex Court in the case of Neeharika Infrastructure Private Limited vs. State of Maharashtra reported in 2021 SCC OnLine SC 315, considered the powers of the High Court, while adjudicating a petition for quashing of FIR under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973. In Neeharika Infrastructure Private Limited (supra), the appellants challenged an interim order issued by the Bombay High Court, in a quashing petition filed under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and Article 226 of the Constitution. The Bombay High Court issued an interim order directing that "no coercive measures shall be adopted against the petitioners in respect of the said FIR". While examining the correctness of the said interim order, the Apex Court in para-80 has held as under : 12.	Keeping in mind the aforesaid dictum of the Apex Court, we find that in the instant case, it transpires from the impugned F.I.R. that on the complaint of the informant, S.N. Khare, who is said to be Additional District Cooperative Officer, Bilhore Tehsil In-charge, Bilhore, Kanpur Nagar, the impugned F.I.R. has been registered against six named accused persons including the petitioner herein, in which, there is specific allegation that on the advise of the petitioner and co-accused Atul Sharma, who is said to be the Accountant, District Office P.C.F., Kanpur Nagar, the work of purchase of wheat was being carried out from Anuj Trader, Vishdhan. On the raid, illegal government bags of 200 quintal wheat and stencils of the three centres referred to above have been recovered from Anuj Trader, Vishdhan. The petitioner has approached this Court by filing the instant writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. More so, from perusal of the entire pleadings of the writ petition, it transpires that there is question of facts, which cannot be examined under Article 226 of the Constitution of India in writ jurisdiction. 13.	It is well settled that this Court has to eschew itself from embarking upon a roving enquiry into the last details of the case. It is also not advisable to adjudge whether the case shall ultimately end in submission of charge sheet and then eventually in conviction or not. Only a prima facie satisfaction of the court about the existence of sufficient ingredients constituting the offence is required in order to see whether the F.I.R. requires to be investigated or deserves quashing. The ambit of investigation into the alleged offence is an independent area of operation and does not call for interference in the same, except in rarest of rare cases. 14.	Keeping in view the aforesaid law and considering the submissions advanced by learned counsel for the petitioner, we are of the view that the submissions made by the learned A.G.A. for the State, to the argument nos. 1,2, 4 (II) and 5, advanced on behalf of the petitioner, have substance. 15.	So far as the submission made by the learned A.G.A. to the argument no.3 advanced on behalf of the petitioner is concerned, it would be relevant to reproduce Section 197 Cr.P.C., which is being quoted herein below: (2) No Court shall take cognizance of any offence alleged to have been committed by any member of the Armed Forces of the Union while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duty, except with the previous sanction of the Central Government. (3) The State Government may, by notification, direct that the provisions of sub- section (2) shall apply to such class or category of the members of the Forces charged with the maintenance of public order as may be specified therein, wherever they may be serving, and thereupon the provisions of that sub- section will apply as if for the expression "Central Government" occurring therein, the expression "State Government" were substituted. (3A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (3), no court shall take cognizance of any offence, alleged to have been committed by any member of the Forces charged with the maintenance of public order in a State while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duty during the period while a Proclamation issued under clause (1) of article 356 of the Constitution was in force therein, except with the previous sanction of the Central Government. (3B) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Code or any other law, it is hereby declared that any sanction accorded by the State Government or any cognizance taken by a court upon such sanction, during the period commencing on the 20th day of August, 1991 and ending with the date immediately preceding the date on which the Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1991 , receives the assent of the President, with respect to an offence alleged to have been committed during the period while a Proclamation issued under clause (1) of article 356 of the Constitution was in force in the State, shall be invalid and it shall be competent for the Central Government in such matter to accord sanction and for the court to take cognizance thereon. (4) The Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, may determine the person by whom, the manner in which, and the offence or offences for which, the prosecution of such Judge, Magistrate or public servant is to be conducted, and may specify the Court before which the trial is to be held." 16.	From a simple reading of Section 197 Cr.P.C., it is apparently clear that no court or magistrate shall take cognizance against a public servant without prior permission or sanction from his/her higher authorities or State, as the case may. Therefore, the submission made by the learned A.G.A. has also substance. 17.	In respect of argument no. 4 (I) advanced on behalf of the petitioners, we have also found substance in the submission made by the learned A.G.A. for the State that every person has a right to file a complaint against a public servant. 18.	The Apex Court in the case of Sheo Nandan Paswan Vesus State of Bihar & Others reported in AIR 1987 SC 877, specifically in paragraph-14, has observed as follows: 19.	In Subramanian Swamy Versus Manmohan Singh & Another reported in (2012) 3 SCC 64, the Apex Court has held that there is no restriction on a private citizen to file complaint against a public servant. The Apex Court has also held that locus standi of a private citizen is, therefore, not excluded. In paragraph nos. 72 and 73, the Apex Court has held as follows: (Emphasis added) 20.	In view of the aforesaid, it is crystal clear that every person has a right to lodge a first information report against a person, who in his presence, commits a non-bailable or cognizable offence. Therefore, the informant of the present case, namely, S.N. Khare, who is also none other than the public servant holding the post of Additional District Cooperative Officer, Bilhore Tehsil In-charge, Bilhore, Kanpur Nagar, had every right to make a complaint for lodging of first information report against the accused persons including the petitioner. 21.	We are of the considered view that the submissions advanced by the learned Counsel for the petitioner call for determination on questions of fact, which may be adequately discerned either through proper investigation or which may be adjudicated upon only by the trial court and even the submissions made on points of law can also be more appropriately gone into only by the trial Court in case a charge sheet is submitted in this case. A perusal of the record makes out a prima facie offence at this stage and there appears to be sufficient ground for investigation of the case. 22.	In view of the aforesaid, considering the allegations made in the FIR and material brought on record, it cannot be said that no prima facie case is made out against the petitioner, rather there appears to be sufficient ground for investigation of the matter. More so, learned Counsel for the petitioner has failed to point out any irregularity in lodging the impugned F.I.R. and also not placed any document(s) so as to interfere in the instant case in the extra-ordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Accordingly, we do not find any justification to quash the impugned F.I.R. 23.	The petition lacks substance and is, accordingly, dismissed. 24.	It is needless to state that the petitioner is having remedy to move an appropriate application for anticipatory bail before the competent Court as provided under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, if so desires. 25.	The learned A.G.A. is obliged to produce a copy of this order before the concerned police station and also before the Senior Superintendent of Police, Kanpur Nagar. 26.	It is made clear that this Court has observed nothing on the merits of the case and investigation is to be carried out strictly in accordance with law on the basis of material so collected by the investigation agency. 27.	The party shall file a computer generated copy of this order downloaded from the official website of High Court Allahabad, self attested by the petitioner alongwith a self attested identity proof of the said person (preferably Aadhar Card) mentioning the mobile number to which the said Aadhar Card is linked. 28.	The concerned Court/Authority/Official shall verify the authenticity of such computerized copy of the order from the official website of High Court Allahabad and shall make a declaration of such verification in writing.