1. These are applications for regular bail, filed by the accused in
FIR No. 495/2017 dated 16th September, 2017, registered at PS
Punjabi Bagh. 2. Consequent on investigations pursuant to the aforementioned
FIR, charge sheet, dated 21st December, 2017, was filed before the
learned Metropolitan Magistrate (hereinafter referred to as "the
learned MM"), Tis Hazari Courts. 3. In order to appreciate the nature of the case, as was sought to be
built up by the prosecution against the three applicants, it would be
apposite to set out the facts, as recited / alleged in the charge sheet
itself. Case of the prosecution as set out in the charge sheet 4. The proceedings commenced from a complaint dated 6 th
September, 2017, by a 90 year-old man, Basu Dev Aggarwal
(hereinafter referred to as "the complainant"). In the said complaint,
the complainant alleged that the present applicants, amongst others,
had been repeatedly extorting money from him, over a period of
twelve to thirteen years, threatening to publicize morphed
photographs, depicting the complainant in a compromising position
with a particular lady named Pooja with whom, the complainant
would allege, he had no relationship whatsoever. In his complaint, the
complainant stated that Harish Tiwari (one of the applicants before
me) introduced himself, to the complainant, as an advocate, and stated
that a certain lady had objectionable documents, which could
compromise the complainant, whereupon, in order to buy peace, the
complainant paid "a small amount" to Harish Tiwari. Two to three
years later, it was alleged that Harish Tiwari again met the
complainant, stating, this time, that Subhash Sharma (another
applicant before me) had told him something against the complainant,
which persuaded the complainant to, once again, pay him a small
amount " to avoid nonsense". The complainant further alleged that
Harish Tiwari took money from him for filing a case, but never did so,
and insisted that he had never met Subhash Sharma. Sometime later,
the complaint alleged, Subhash Sharma again met Harish Tiwari and
asked for more money. This pattern of blackmail and extortion
continued periodically at six to eight monthly intervals. During the BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 3 of 38 said period, it was alleged that Subhash Sharma introduced one more
extortionist, Ashok Sagar (the third applicant before me) with the
same story, this time stating that Ashok Sagar was a crime reporter,
who was required to be paid in order to restrain him from publishing
incriminating material, against the complainant, in the media. In this
manner, the complaint alleged, the complainant paid, to Harish Tiwari
and Ashok Sagar, ₹ 12 to 14 lakhs, over a period of two years through
his driver Lalit Rai. All payments, whether intended for Harish Tiwari
or Ashok Sagar were made in the office of Harish Tiwari. It was
further alleged that, a few days prior to the complaint, Harish Tiwari
met the complainant and introduced yet another player, Ramphal,
who, he stated, was also in possession of a letter, written by Pooja,
containing allegations against the complainant. Though Harish Tiwari,
at that time, said that Ramphal would be the last extortionist, he, later,
again approached the complainant, stating that Ashok Sagar wanted
more money. The complaint went on to give details of the only lady
named Pooja, of whom the complainant was aware, who was the
ex. wife of one J. D. Gupta. The complainant categorically denied
having any illicit relationship with Pooja, and stated that he had, over
the aforementioned period of twelve to thirteen years, been subjected
to repeated blackmail and extortion, by Harish Tiwari and his
confederates including Ashok Sagar, Subhash Sharma and others. In
the circumstances, the complaint extorted the police authorities to
protect the complainant, who was a man of advanced years suffering
from various physical ailments, and to proceed, in law, against the
aforementioned blackmailers/extortionists. 5. On the basis of the aforementioned complaint, FIR No.
495/2017, dated 16th September, 2017, was registered, at PS Punjabi
Bagh, under Sections 384, 389 and 411 read with Sections 120-B and 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as "the IPC "). 6. It was stated that Pooja, in her statement recorded under Section
164 of the Code of Criminal procedure, 1973, (hereinafter referred to
as "the Cr.P.C ") denied knowing the complainant, though she said that
she was aware that certain people were trying to link her with him. 7. A month after the aforementioned complaint, on 7 th October,
2017, the complainant filed a second complaint in the Police Station,
substantially improving on the earlier complaint filed by him. The
complainant justified filing the second complaint on the ground that he
suffered from amnesia and was not, therefore, in a position to
remember all the facts when he filed his first complaint. In the second
complaint, the complainant alleged that the amount extorted from him,
by the aforementioned blackmailers/extortionists, over the period of
twelve to thirteen years, was in the region of ₹ 10 crores of which
₹ 7 crores were extorted in the initial 3-4 years. He also named, in the
second complaint, various other alleged blackmailers/extortionists
involved in the racket, namely Harish @ Baba Vashishth, his brother
Vishal Vashishth, Naresh Chaubey, Yogesh Yadav, P.C. Sharma, BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 5 of 38 Akhilesh Sharma and Anju Tiwari. It was also alleged that, possibly,
J. D. Gupta was also involved in the racket. 8. As, in this second complaint, it was alleged that Harish @ Baba
Vashishth and Vishal Vashishth had demanded extortion money to be
paid, by the complainant, that day, i.e. on 7th October, 2017, at the
mall, the police laid a trap, whereby they managed to nab
Vishal Vashishth, who, on being questioned, admitted his involvement
in the aforementioned extortion racket. Consequent thereto,
Vishal Vashishth was arrested and his disclosure statement recorded,
following whereupon the extortion money was recovered from him
and seized under seizure memo. Raid was conducted at the residence
of Vishal Vashishth, from where his brother Harish @ Baba Vashishth
fled. Vishal Vashishth also assaulted the police and escaped, for which
a separate FIR was lodged. 9. On 12th October, 2017, the complainant produced, before the
Police authorities, (i) the mobile phone containing recording of the
extortion calls, (ii) a spy camera containing audio and video
recordings of the conversation between Harish Tiwari and the
complainant, (iii) a pen drive containing the audio recording of the
meeting between them, (iv) a pen drive containing a copy of all voice
calls and audio and video recordings, and (v) written transcript of all
recordings. 10. On 27th October, 2017, the complainant informed the police
that, on that day, an unknown person had informed his driver Lalit Rai
that Harish Tiwari and Ashok Sagar were to be paid extortion money
at the residence of Harish Tiwari. The police team, thereupon,
proceeded, with Lalit Rai, to the resident of Harish Tiwari, where
Harish Tiwari and Ashok Sagar were present, waiting for money.
Lalit Rai went inside, with the extortion money, consisting of two
bundles of ₹ 2 lakhs each, of which the last note of each bundle was
signed by the complainant. Before Lalit Rai could alert the police
team waiting outside, Harish Tiwari and Ashok Sagar received the
money and sped away from the spot in two cars. The police chased
them, and managed to intercept them in the hotel room, where they
were arrested, their disclosure statements recorded and the extortion
money recovered from them. Harish Tiwari, in his disclosure
statement, also incriminated Harish @ Baba Vashishth, Vishal
Vashishth, J. D. Gupta, Ashok Sagar, and Subhash Sharma, stating
that, to his knowledge, they were all involved in blackmailing and
extortion. He further disclosed, in his statement, that J. D. Gupta had
provided photographs and videos of the complainant, which were
morphed by them, with the photograph of a girl, reflecting the
complainant in a compromising position with her, so as to extort
money from the complainant. It was further stated, by Harish, in his
disclosure statement that, as per the conspiracy between them, all
contact, with the complainant, was to be by Harish Tiwari, who would
instill sufficient fear in the complainant, as to compel him to cough up BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 7 of 38 the money demanded by them. He named others, allegedly involved in
the racket, as well. 11. The charge-sheet alleged that a similar statement had been
given by Ashok Sagar. 12. On 23rd October, 2017, Harish Tiwari and Ashok Sagar were
arrested and produced before the learned MM, who remanded them to
police custody. During interrogation in police custody, Harish Tiwari
produced a Vakalatnama with the consent of the complainant, two
mobile phones used by him in committing the crime, copy of a letter
for publication and morphed photographs involving the complainant,
all of which were recovered and seized. 13. On 1st November, 2017, Harish Tiwari and Ashok Sagar were
remanded to judicial custody by the learned MM. They have remained
in judicial custody since then. Ashok Sagar and Harish Tiwari have
been in custody for nearly eight months as on date. 14. On 3rd November, 2017, the disclosure statement of Lalit @
Lucky, the driver of the complainant was recorded, wherein he stated
that he had gone with Harish Tiwari to the residence of the
complainant, carrying the newspaper containing defamatory material
against the complainant, and, showing the same, extorted Rs. 2 lakhs
from the complainant, of which he gave ₹ 1 lakh to Harish Tiwari. In
his disclosure statement, Lalit disclosed that he had extorted a further BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 8 of 38 sum of ₹ 4 lakhs and started other magazines and publications which
were funded by Harish Tiwari, so as to able to extort more money
from the complainant. The letters for publication, along with copies
of such newspapers, it was alleged, were recovered and seized. 15. Voice samples of Harish Tiwari and Ashok Sagar were taken
and sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (hereinafter referred to as
"the FSL") along with the spy camera, mobile, pen drive, etc. The
photographs recovered from the afore-mentioned accused were also
sent to the FSL for expert opinion. The result of these tests, it was
stated, was awaited. 16. The charge-sheet further alleged that the drivers/helpers of the
complainant, namely, Lalit Rai, Lalit Anand @ Lucky and Ram
Kishan Rai @ Raju, corroborated the statements of the complainant,
and named Harish Tiwari, Ashok Sagar, Subhash Sharma, P. C.
Sharma, and Naresh Chaubey, Vishal Vashishth, etc. 17. It was further alleged that the Call Detail Records (CDRs),
prepared during investigation, disclosed that Harish Tiwari was in
constant touch with the other conspirators, such as Naresh Chaubey,
Subhash Sharma, and Ashok Sagar. 18. On the basis of the above evidence, the charge-sheet alleged
that the allegation, of the complainant, that he had been subjected to
repeated extortion, involving a total amount of ₹ 10 crores, over a BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 9 of 38 period of twelve to thirteen years, stood proved, and that, out of the
said sum, ₹ 5 lakhs had in fact been recovered. This, it was stated,
indicated that Harish Tiwari, Ashok Sagar, Naresh Chaubey and
Harish @ Baba Vashishth, had committed offences under sections
384 , 389 and 411 read with 120-B and 34 of the IPC , for which
purpose the charge-sheet was submitted. 19. As has already been noted hereinabove, Harish Tiwari and
Ashok Sagar have been in custody since 23rd October, 2017. 20. In the aforementioned chargesheet, Subhash Sharma was,
however, reflected as an absconder, against whom, first, non-bailable
warrants were issued and, on the attempt at executing the said
warrants against him failing, process, under Section 82 of the Cr.P.C.,
for declaring him as a proclaimed offender, was initiated. It appears,
however, that the said proceedings were stayed, by the learned Trial
Court, as Subhash Sharma had applied for bail, and the application
was to come up for hearing on 14th December, 2017. Consequent to
dismissal, of the bail application of Subhash Sharma, by the learned
Trial Court, he surrendered, in Court, on 15th January, 2018. While
doing so, he requested for Test Identification Parade (TIP), but the
Investigating Officer (I/O) opposed the request. On 17th January, 2018,
Subhash Sharma was remanded to JC and, thereafter, on 12 th March,
2018, supplementary charge-sheet, dealing exclusively with him, was
submitted. The supplementary charge-sheet alleged that
Subhash Sharma had, during his police remand, admitted the BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 10 of 38 preparation of the morphed photographs and doctored videos, and had
further admitted having destroyed them, on coming to know of the
complaint lodged by the complainant. It was further alleged, therein,
that the mobile phone, used in commission of the extortion was
recovered, at the instance of Subhash Sharma, from his house, and that
Subhash Sharma also pointed out the drain in which he disposed of the
photographs and doctored video, as well as the office premises
(belonging to Harish Vashishth and Vishal Vashishth), where the
morphed photographs and doctored video were generated. Further
attention has been invited, in the supplementary charge-sheet, to the
fact that the CDRs of the various persons accused disclosed that
Subhash Sharma had remained in touch with Harish Tiwari and
J. D. Gupta, and that the driver of the complainant, Ram Kishan Rai,
had identified Subhash Sharma as the person to whom he had
delivered the extortion money. As such, the supplementary charge-
sheet charged Subhash Sharma, along with the other accused, under Sections 38 / 389 / 120-B and 34 of the IPC. 21. For the sake of completion of the recitation of facts, it may be
noted that the applicants moved applications for regular bail, which
were rejected by the learned ASJ, essentially in view of the stage at
which the investigations stand. Further, the applicants also challenged
the framing of charges, against them, which challenges also stand
rejected, by the learned MM, vide order dated 31st May, 2018. Rival Contentions 22. Arguments, on behalf of Ashok Sagar, were advanced by
learned counsel Mr. Jaspreet Singh Rai. Mr. Rai contends that the
FIR/complaint, of the complainant, having been filed 13 years after
the alleged extortion commenced, did not commend confidence, and
that there was no reference, in the FIR, to any payment having been
directly made to his client. He draws pointed attention to the fact that
the total payment figure of ₹ 10 to 12 lakhs, which found place in the
FIR, stood mysteriously enhanced to ₹ 10 crores, in the charge-sheet,
without any basis, whatsoever, for the said enhancement. He also
relies on the statement of Pooja, recorded under Section 164 of the
Cr.P.C., in which she clearly said that she did not know the
complainant, and submits that this harmonised, perfectly, with the
complainant‟s own statement that he, too, did not know Pooja. Mr. Rai
would submit that, given this fact, it was inconceivable that morphed
the photographs, showing the complainant in proximity with Pooja,
could have been generated. He further contends that it was, ex facie,
unbelievable that the complainant would pay huge amounts, over a
period of 12 to 13 years, to avoid disclosure of morphed photographs,
showing him in proximity with a lady whom he did not know.
Mr. Rai further draws my attention to the fact that, of the provisions
invoked against his client, the offence under Section 411 of the IPC
was bailable, and that, while the offences under Section 384 and 389 of the IPC were non-bailable, the maximum punishment, under each
of the said provisions, was only 3 years‟ imprisonment. Given the fact
that his client had clean antecedents, and was the sole bread-winner BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 12 of 38 for his family, and has remained in custody since 23 rd October, 2017,
Mr. Rai would submit that there was no justification, in law, for
continuing the incarceration of his client, during the process of trial. 23. Harish Tiwari was represented, before me, by Mr. Jayant Sud,
learned Senior Counsel, assisted by Mr. Amit Tiwari. Mr. Sud submits
that his client had been the counsel, of the complainant, for several
years. He points out that the allegation, against his client, was that he
was the intermediary between the complainant and the alleged
blackmailers. Mr. Sud also relies on the delay in lodging FIR, and
points out that his client had, in fact, been granted interim bail, by the
learned ASJ, vide order dated 3rd February, 2018. Submitting that, in
the circumstances, were his client to plead guilty, he would be entitled
to remission, Mr. Sud concludes his submissions by placing reliance
on Sanjay Chandra vs C.B.I. , (2012) 1 SCC 40 and the judgement, of
a learned Single Judge of this Court, in H. B. Chaturvedi vs C.B.I. ,
171 (2010) DLT 223, submitting that, even where the accused
appeared to have committed the crime, his pre-conviction
incarceration was unjustified, as such incarceration was not intended
to be a punishment. 24. Mr. Ashwin Vaish, learned counsel for Subhash Sharma,
submits that his client has needlessly been dragged into the whole
melee, as he had never even met the complainant, and was sought to
be roped in only by virtue of Section 120-B of the IPC. He points out
that Section 411 of the IPC had not been invoked against his client, BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 13 of 38 and submits that it was admitted position that his client was not a
participant in the alleged extortion of money from the complainant.
He points out that the complainant himself admitted having never
talked to his client, or met him. He emphasises the fact that his client
refused to sign the disclosure statement, and presses, especially into
service, the fact that, while his client sought for a TIP, it was the I/O
who opposed the request. He submitted that his client did not know
any of the co-accused in the case. He also submitted that the
complainant, too, had not alleged receipt of any extortion money by
his client. He questions the invocation, against his client, of Section
120-B of the IPC, by contending that the sine qua non, for conspiracy,
was meeting of minds, and, in the absence of any date, or time, when
his client met the other co-accused in the case, such meeting of minds
was well-nigh impossible. He submits that his client has, by now,
remained in custody for over 5 months, and that further incarceration
of his client would, in the circumstances, be clearly unjustifiable. 25. Ms. Manjeet Arya, learned Additional Public Prosecutor (APP),
jointly opposing the applications of all the applicants, relies on the
statement, of Ram Phal, under Section 164 of the Cr.P.C. She submits
that Subhash Sharma was named by Ram Kishan Rai and could not,
therefore, plead innocence. So far as Harish Tiwari and Ashok Sagar
are concerned, she emphasises the fact that they were caught,
practically red-handed, with the extortion money, so that they had no
case, whatsoever, for being released from incarceration. Moreover, in
the case of Harish Tiwari, she draws attention to the reference, in the BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 14 of 38 Status Report filed in his case, of the fact that, when Harish Tiwari
had been granted three weeks interim bail for filing his Income Tax
returns, Lalit Rai had lodged a complaint against an unknown person,
alleged to have been sent by him, who offered him cash and a
handsome job, and threatened him with dire consequences, were he to
refuse the offer. As such, learned APP would submit, if Harish Tiwari
were to be enlarged on bail at this juncture, there was every possibility
of his influencing, and intimidating, the witnesses, and prejudicing the
fair course of investigation. She, therefore, prayed that the bail
applications of the applicants be rejected. Analysis 26. Article 21 of the Constitution of India proscribes deprivation, of
the life and liberty of every Indian citizen, save and except by
"procedure established by law". The law, in this country, permits
deprivation of the liberty of the citizen, by her, or his, incarceration,
during trial, as well as after its conclusion, but for different reasons,
and to achieve different purposes. Incarceration, after trial and
consequent on the accused being found guilty, is punitive in nature.
Punishment, by plain logic, has necessarily to follow a determination
of guilt, accompanying conviction, and can never be anterior thereto. Incarceration during trial, therefore, can never be punitive in nature
and is never intended to operate as a punishment, as was rightly held
by the learned Single Judge of this Court in H. B. Chaturvedi vs
C.B.I. , 171 (2010) DLT 223. 27. What, then, is incarceration, during trial, intended to achieve?
The question stands answered in various authorities, including Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia vs. State of Punjab , (1980) 2 SCC 565 (by a
Constitution Bench) and Gudikanti Narasimhulu vs. Public
Prosecutor, High Court of A.P., (1978) 1 SCC 240. Gurbaksh Singh
Sibbia (supra) quoted, with approval, the time-tested observations, of
the High Court of Calcutta in In re. Nagendra Nath Chakravarti,
AIR 1924 Cal 476, to the effect that "the object of bail is to secure the
attendance of the accused at the trial, that the proper test to be
applied in the solution of the question whether bail should be granted
or refused is whether it is probable that the party will appear to take
his trial and that it is indisputable that a bail could not be withheld as
a punishment". Gudikanti Narsimhulu (supra) relied, approvingly,
on the following passage, from American Jurisprudence (II) Vol. 8,
P806, para 39: (Emphasis supplied) 28. Both these decisions, it may be noted, were relied upon, by a
recent decision of the Supreme Court, speaking through Rohinton Fali
Nariman, J., in Nikesh Tarachand Shah vs U.O.I. , (2018) 11 SCC 1.
The said judgement examined the entire history of bail jurisprudence, BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 16 of 38 starting from Clause 39 of the Magna Carta, the translation of which
was quoted, in the said decision ,, thus: 29. The following pronouncement, from Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) was also approvingly cited: (Emphasis supplied) 30. The Supreme Court has, in another recent decision in Dataram
Singh vs. State of U.P. , (2018) 3 SCC 22, had occasion to criticize the
attitude of courts in unjustifiably denying bail, resulting in
unnecessary incarceration and crowding of jails. Paras 1 to 6 of the
said decision merit reproduction, in extenso, thus: 6. However, we should not be understood to mean that
 bail should be granted in every case. The grant or refusal of
 bail is entirely within the discretion of the judge hearing the
 matter and though that discretion is unfettered, it must be
 exercised judiciously and in a humane manner and
 compassionately. Also, conditions for the grant of bail ought
 not to be so strict as to be incapable of compliance, thereby
 making the grant of bail illusory." 31. Dataram Singh (supra) was relied upon, by a three-Judge
Bench of the Supreme Court, in a still more recent decision in X vs State of Telangana , 2018 SCC Online SC 549, paras 12 and 13
whereof read thus: 32. The Supreme Court had, in an earlier decision in Prasanta
Kumar Sarkar vs Ashis Chatterjee , (2010) 14 SCC 496, ruled that,
among other circumstances, the following factors were required to be
borne in mind while considering an application for bail: 33. The judgment further held that "if the High Court does not
advert to these relevant considerations and mechanically grants bail,
the said order would suffer from the vice of non application of mind
rendering it to be illegal". 34. The passages, in Sanjay Chandra (supra), on which learned
counsel for the applicants place reliance, also merit reproduction, thus: 27. This Court, time and again, has stated that bail is the
 rule and committal to jail an exception. It has also observed
 that refusal of bail is a restriction on the personal liberty of
 the individual guaranteed under Article 21 of the
 Constitution. 34. More recently, in Siddharam Satlingappa
 Mhetre v. State of Maharashtra [(2011) 1 SCC 694 : (2011)
 1 SCC (Cri) 514 , this Court observed that: (SCC p. 728, para 84)
 „84. Just as liberty is precious to an individual, so is
 the society's interest in maintenance of peace, law and
 order. Both are equally important.‟ 35. This Court further observed: ( Siddharam Satlingappa case [(2011) 1 SCC 694 : (2011) 1 SCC (Cri) 514] , SCC p.
 737, para 116)

 „116. Personal liberty is a very precious fundamental
 right and it should be curtailed only when it becomes
 imperative according to the peculiar facts and
 circumstances of the case.‟ 40. The grant or refusal to grant bail lies within the
 discretion of the court. The grant or denial is regulated, to a
 large extent, by the facts and circumstances of each particular
 case. But at the same time, right to bail is not to be denied
 merely because of the sentiments of the community against the BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 23 of 38 accused. The primary purposes of bail in a criminal case are
 to relieve the accused of imprisonment, to relieve the State of
 the burden of keeping him, pending the trial, and at the same
 time, to keep the accused constructively in the custody of the
 court, whether before or after conviction, to assure that he
 will submit to the jurisdiction of the court and be in
 attendance thereon whenever his presence is required. 42. When the undertrial prisoners are detained in jail
 custody to an indefinite period, Article 21 of the Constitution
 is violated. Every person, detained or arrested, is entitled to
 speedy trial, the question is: whether the same is possible in
 the present case." (Emphasis supplied)

Resultant legal position 35. Authorities on bail, and the jurisprudence relating thereto, are in
overabundance, and it is hardly necessary to multiply references
thereto. The principles governing exercise of judicial discretion in
such cases, appear, however, to be well-settled. The following
principles may immediately be discerned, from the aforementioned
authorities: Incarceration during trial, therefore, neither chastises nor
 cures. (ii) While examining the issue, courts are not to presume that
 the accused would flee justice, were he to be released,
 and search for evidence indicating to the contrary.
 Logistically, every accused, who is released during trial,
 has the potentiality of fleeing. Were this potentiality to be
 allowed to influence the mind of the court, no accused
 would be entitled to bail. (iii) While examining applications for bail, the court has to be
 duly sensitized to the mandate of Article 21 of the
 Constitution of India, which guarantees freedom to every
 citizen of India save and except by procedure prescribed
 by law. Curtailment of personal liberty during trial, has,
 therefore, to be limited to those cases in which it is
 absolutely essential, and in which, in the absence of such
 curtailment, the process of trial is likely to be hampered
 by the accused, whether by vanishing or by unduly
 influencing the trial process, by intimidating the
 witnesses, or otherwise. If no such apprehension can
 legitimately be expressed, there can be no reasonable
 ground to keep the accused incarcerated, as incarceration
 would then assume a punitive avatar. (iv) Given this legal position, the nature of the offence
 committed necessarily has a limited role to play, while
 examining the merits of an application for bail. This is for
 a simple reason that the application being examined by
 the court is not for suspension of sentence, but for release
 during trial. If the court were to allow itself to be unduly
 influenced by the nature of the charges against the
 accused, and the seriousness of the crime alleged to have
 been committed by him, it would result in obliterating the
 distinction between grant of bail and suspension of
 sentence. Inasmuch as the applicant, in a bail application,
 has yet to be found guilty of the offence with which he is
 charged, the significance of the nature of the offence
 stand substantially reduced, while examining the
 application for bail. Courts have to be alive to the legal
 position - underscored in the very first paragraph of Dataram Singh (supra) - that every accused is presumed
 to be innocent until proved guilty. (v) Where, however, the material against the accused is so
 insubstantial that the court feels that his conviction, in the
 ultimate eventuate, appears remote, the court can
 legitimately arrive at a conclusion that, as the accused is
 highly unlikely to ultimately suffer conviction, his
 incarceration during trial, would be unjustified. (vi) Having said that, the decisions cited hereinabove reveal
 that the Supreme Court has, in certain cases, treated the
 seriousness of the offence alleged against the accused
 seeking bail, to be a relevant consideration while
 examining the merit of his application. While it may be
 true that, in extremely gross cases, the advisability of
 allowing the accused to roam at large, during the course
 of his trial, may be questionable, the court has,
 nevertheless, to be alive to the fact that, at that stage, the
 charge against the accused is still in the realm of an
 accusation, and no more. It would be entirely
 impermissible for the court, at the stage of deciding the
 bail application of the accused, to subject him to a
 premature trial, far less to return any finding, even
 tentative, regarding the justifiability of the charge against
 him. (vii) The Court cannot, however, while adjudicating a bail
 application, adopt an entirely accused-centric approach,
 unmindful of the prevailing public and societal interests
 hanging in the balance. The right of the accused to
 liberty, prior to his being found guilty of the charge
 against him has to be weighed against the public interest
 involved, in ensuring that the trial proceeds fairly and
 unhindered. The propensity and potentiality of the BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 27 of 38 accused, were he to be enlarged on bail during trial, to
 unduly affect the trial process has, therefore, to be
 necessarily factored in, while deciding the application of
 the accused for bail. This, in turn, would involve
 examination of various aspects, such as the antecedents of
 the accused, any previous incidents (which would involve
 other criminal cases in which the accused might have
 been involved) which could indicate that the accused
 might, if let loose, tamper with the evidence, and the
 roots of the accused in society. In evaluating this aspect
 of the matter, the court has necessarily to adopt a holistic
 approach, and it would be impossible to formulate any
 guidelines in this regard. 36. This court is required to examine the applications of the present
applicants, keeping in mind the above legal position. While an
exhaustive study of the authorities on the point may disclose some
degree of oscillation in the precedential pendulum, the unalterable
median is, and always is, that bail is the rule, and jail is the exception;
the corollary would be that, if one is to abandon the rule, and embrace
the exception, there must necessarily be overwhelming reason, and
justification, to do so. 37. Is such justification forthcoming, in the present case? To arrive
at any opinion, it would be necessary to examine the cases of the
individual applicants, individually. While doing so, this Court is BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 28 of 38 required to be alive to the fact that investigations, in the present case,
are as yet incomplete, as several of the alleged
extortionists/blackmailers, named by the complainant or by the
witnesses, are yet to be traced and apprehended. Ashok Sagar 38. Ashok Sagar has, in his bail application, emphasised, apart from
the submissions advanced by his counsel, to which allusion has
already been made hereinabove, the fact that he had cooperated with
the investigation throughout, and was a resident of Delhi, with a wife,
a two-year old daughter and aged parents, and was the sole bread-
earner of the family. The Status Report, filed by the Police authorities,
essentially refer to the "evidences" available against Ashok Sagar, and
the fact that several co-accused are yet to be arrested, and
investigation, regarding accounts and investment of extorted money in
various properties, was still going on. These are, at best, vague
averments, bereft of particulars. Besides these, it is contended, as a
ground for opposing the request of Ashok Sagar for bail, that efforts
were still on to recover the doctored CD on the basis of the analysis of
the CDR of Ashok Sagar, and that his release "may lead to destruction
of said CD/evidences". This, again, is entirely presumptive. Apart
from these, it is merely averred that there was "every possibility of
adopting delaying tactics and evading trial" and "every possibility of
tampering with the evidence and influencing the witnesses". 39. The grounds urged by the prosecution, in its Status Report, in
my opinion, do not convincingly answer the request, of Ashok Sagar,
for being released on bail. It is an undisputed fact that each of the two
non-bailable provisions, under which Ashok Sagar (and, in fact, all the
applicants), was charged, is punishable with maximum punishment of
3 years‟ imprisonment, and that Ashok Sagar already stands
incarcerated since 23rd October, 2017, i.e. for nearly 8 months. The
Status Report does not dispute the fact that, till now, Ashok Sagar has
not impeded or interfered with the investigative process in any
manner. Neither does it deny the asseverations, in the bail application
of Ashok Sagar, regarding his being a resident of Delhi with a two-
year old daughter. The charge-sheet, against him, already stands filed.
The "possibility", mooted in the Status Report, of his evading trial or
tampering with evidence, is not supported by any material. There is no
allegation of Ashok Sagar being involved in any other criminal case,
past or present. Besides these, the entire case against him - as also
against the other applicants - is arguable, especially regarding the
delay in launching of the FIR, and the unexplained enhancement, of
the amount of "extortion money" allegedly paid by the complainant, to
his extortionists, from ₹ 12 to 14 lakhs, to ₹ 10 crores. Prima facie, it
is difficult to attribute this enhancement solely to the purported
amnesiac condition of the complainant. Of course, these are aspects to
be thrashed out during trial, and can have but a limited role to play, at
this stage. 40. In any event, holistically viewed, I am of the opinion that, in the
circumstances of the case, further incarceration of Ashok Sagar,
resulting in further deprivation of his right to liberty, would not be
warranted. His release on bail, subject to appropriate stringent
conditions would, in my view, meet with the ends of justice. Harish Tiwari 41. Apart from drawing attention to aspects such as the delay in
filing of FIR, and the unexplained enhancement of the extortion
amount from around ₹ 14 lakhs to ₹ 10 crores, the bail application of
Harish Tiwari asserts that he is a lawyer with over 20 years‟
experience at the bar, and is a permanent resident of Delhi. It is
further averred that he has a wife and two school going children, and
is the sole bread-earner of the family. It is further urged that he
cooperated during the Police Remand, and consented to the recording
of his voice sample which, too, stands concluded. Attention has been
drawn, further, to his release, on interim bail, by the learned ASJ,
submitting that he neither sought to influence any witness during the
currency of the said bail, nor defaulted in surrendering, immediately
on his request for extension of interim bail being rejected. This, it is
asserted, indicates that he would abide by the directions issued by this
Hon'ble Court. 42. As against this, the Status Report filed by the prosecution,
besides highlighting the specific role attributed to Harish Tiwari by the BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 31 of 38 complainant, and the evidence against him, alleges that, during the
period of three weeks for which he had been granted interim bail,
Lalit Rai, the driver of the complainant, lodged a complaint against an
unknown person, allegedly sent by Harish Tiwari, who offered him
cash and a handsome job, and threatened him with dire consequences
in the event of his declining the offer. It is further alleged that the
antecedents of Harish Tiwari were questionable, as he was involved in
three cases, registered with the CBI, involving Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 and 471 , read with Section 120-B of the IPC, as well as Sections
13(2) and 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. It has
further been alleged, in the Status Report, that, pursuant to the move,
of the Government, to demonetize old currency, Harish Tiwari
deposited ₹ 93 lakhs in banks, in relation to which notice stands
issued, to him, by the Income Tax Department. The Status Report
further states that, over a period of twelve to thirteen years,
Harish Tiwari purchased the following properties: 43. Though the above Status Report was filed, by the State, as far
back as on 13th April, 2018, no attempt has been made, by
Harish Tiwari, either in writing or during the course of oral arguments
before the Court, to disabuse this Court regarding the correctness of
the assertions contained therein. As already noted herein above, this
Court, while examining whether it would be appropriate to enlarge an
accused, on bail, during trial, or where investigations are still in
progress, has necessarily to hypothesise, to some extent, based on the
past history of the applicant concerned. Thus viewed, it can hardly be
gainsaid that Harish Tiwari does not enjoy the cleanest of past records,
as the above assertions, in the Status Report, disclose. He has been
enmeshed in three cases, involving Sections 419 , 420 , 467 and 468 of
the IPC in conjunction with Sections 13(1)(d) and 13 (2) of the
Prevention of Corruption Act. Further, while being wealthy is, in
itself, obviously no offence, the list of properties stated to have been
purchased by him, over a period of twelve to thirteen years, during BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 33 of 38 which he is stated to have been practicing as an advocate, viewed in
the light of the aforementioned cases, in which he is involved, does
not inspire this court to readily believe that, if enlarged at this stage,
he would do nothing to impede the due course of the investigation or
trial. Assimilation of evidence is as yet incomplete, and several of the
co-accused have yet to be intercepted or arrested. Without intending
this, therefore, to be an expression of opinion, regarding the possibility
of the investigation, and trial, being affected by enlargement of
Harish Tiwari on bail at this juncture, I am unable to persuade myself
regarding the advisability of such a course of action. There is also an
allegation that, during the period for which he was enlarged on interim
bail, an attempt was made, by someone purporting to act on behalf of
Harish Tiwari, to influence and intimidate Lalit Rai, one of the key
witnesses in this case. This, too, has persuaded the prosecution to
express misgivings, regarding the possibility of his attempting to
influence, or intimidate, the witnesses, were Harish Tiwari to be
released on bail at this point of time. 44. Besides, this court cannot, in conjunction with the above, lose
sight of the fact that Harish Tiwari is essentially the main accused in
this case, who has, all along, been in touch with the complainant.
In fact, as per the complainant, he is the only person who was
communicating with him, whether on his own behalf or on behalf of
the other co-accused. The gravity of the charges against him is,
therefore, necessarily greater than that of the charges against the other
co-accused. 45. Holistically seen, and keeping the interests of a fair and
unimpeded investigation in mind, I am of the view that, at this stage,
Harish Tiwari cannot be said to deserve to be released on bail. Subhash Sharma 46. Insofar as Subhash Sharma is concerned, his propensity to
abscond, and avoid cooperating with the investigative process, stands
documented. Non-bailable warrants, issued to him, could not be
executed, resulting in proceedings, under Section 87 of the Cr.P.C., to
declare him a proclaimed offender, having to be instituted on 6 th
November, 2017. As a result, he has, till now, suffered incarceration
only for a period of 5 months. He is also stated to be involved in two
other extortion cases, under Sections 384, read with Section 34 of the
IPC. The fact that he has a wife and two children, on which learned
counsel has stressed, did not deter him from evading arrest, till the
dismissal of the bail application filed by him before the learned Trial
Court. The possibility of his again going underground, were he to be
enlarged on bail, or of otherwise seeking to impede the investigative
process, therefore, looms large, and cannot be ignored. No doubt, Section 411 of the IPC has not been invoked against Subhash Sharma,
and direct evidence of his involvement, in extorting money from the
complainant, as may be said to be forthcoming in the case of the other
co-accused, may not be readily available, in his case, at present;
having said that, this Court cannot be unmindful of the fact that BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 35 of 38 several of the co-accused, who are alleged to have been conspiring in
the extortion of money from the complainant, are yet to be traced, and
investigation, as well as trial, are at a nascent stage. This Court cannot
be party to an order which could result, in any manner, in putting
roadblocks in the way of the investigation, which still has some way to
go. 47. In the opinion of this Court, therefore, Subhash Sharma cannot
be said to have made out a case meriting his enlargement, on bail, at
this juncture. Conclusion 48. In the result, Bail Application 752/2018, of Harish Tiwari, and
Bail Application 1332/2018, of Subhash Sharma, are rejected. Bail
Application 401/2018, of Ashok Sagar, is allowed, and he is directed
to be released on bail, subject to his furnishing security to the tune of
₹ 1 lakh, along with two solvent sureties of like amount, to the
satisfaction of the learned Trial Court. His release shall be subject to
the following conditions: 49. All observations contained in this judgement are intended only
for disposal of these bail applications, and are not to be read as an
expression of opinion, even tentative, regarding the merits of the
charges against the applicants. 50. These bail applications are disposed of in the above terms. 51. Copy of this order be provided dasti to learned counsel for the
applicants. C. HARI SHANKAR
 (VACATION JUDGE)
JUNE 20, 2018
gayatri BAIL APPLN. 401/2018, 752/2018 & 1332/2018 Page 38 of 38