J U D G M E N T

ARIJIT PASAYAT, J. Challenge in this appeal is to the order passed by the Income Tax 
Settlement Commission, Additional Bench Calcutta (in short the 
'Commission'). By the impugned order it was held that the prayer made 
by the Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal-VIII, Calcutta (in short 
'CIT') to declare the settlement order passed by the Commission on 
18.9.1990 to be void and for withdrawing the benefits and immunities 
granted to the respondent-assessee was not acceptable. The order dated 
18.9.1990 was passed under Section 245D(4) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 
(in short the 'Act'). The application by the CIT for declaration of the 
said order to be void was made purportedly under Section 245D(6) of the 
Act. The controversy in the present appeal has arisen in the following 
factual background: All these seven persons were claimed to be residents of Sikkim and that 
the amounts were received by way of loan. The details of the receipts 
are as follows: Certain documents were produced before the Commission to prove 
the genuineness of the aforesaid loans. The Commission accepted the 
stand of the assessee and did not cast any doubt on the credibility of 
sum of Rs.1.5 crores to have been advanced as loans. It appears that 
enquiries were conducted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (in 
short the 'CBI') at the request of the revenue regarding the aforesaid 
loans, at Jorthang, Melli and Singtam. In the opinion of the CBI the 
alleged lenders had no means or financial capacity to advance huge loan 
to the assessee and were mere name lenders. When the investigating 
officer contacted the so called lenders, they denied having advanced 
any loan. Some of the certificates purportedly issued were not 
authentic. One of the persons i.e. the then Commissioner of Siliguri 
municipality Mr. Rabin Paul admitted that he had no direct knowledge of 
the transaction and, therefore, the assessee had obtained the 
certificate by practising fraud. The further fact is that some of the 
lenders i.e. S/Shri Gauri Shankar Agarwal, Subhas Ch. Minda and Vinod 
Kr. Minda had made payment of tax to the Sikkim authorities after the 
order of settlement. It was projected before the Commission at the 
first instance as if they were tax payers. Enquiries revealed that 
Shri Subhas Ch. Minda was not assessed to income tax up to the period 
1985-86. Therefore, the submission made before the Commission that he 
was assessed regularly before the Sikkim authorities was false. In the aforesaid background prayer was made by the CIT for 
declaration of the order passed by the Commission to be void and for 
withdrawal of the benefits granted. The motion was opposed by the 
assessee according to whom the order of the Commission was final in 
terms of Section 245I . There was no power for any review of the 
earlier order and in any event the Commission had analysed the factual 
position. Fresh analysis would amount to sitting in judgment over the 
earlier decision which power the Commission did not possess. By the impugned order the Commission held that the stand taken by 
the assessee's counsel was correct. It was held that the department 
had not established that settlement order under Section 245D (4) dated 
18.9.1990 was obtained by the assessee by fraud and misrepresentation 
of facts. It was further noted that under Section 245D(6) the 
Commission was not considering whether the loans of Rs.1.5 crores 
claimed to have been taken by the assessee from seven persons were 
genuine or not. It was held that if the Commission would go into merit 
regarding genuineness of the loans, that would amount to re-appraisal 
and re-evaluation of the evidence which was already apprised by the 
earlier Bench, and it would amount to sitting in judgment over the 
findings arrived at by the earlier Bench which was not legally 
permissible to the Commission to review its own decision. Further it 
was held that the CBI report did not merit acceptance as the alleged 
lenders were genuine persons who were admittedly contacted by the CBI 
officials. There was no statement recorded from them stating that they 
had not given the loans. Therefore, the petition under Section 245D(6) was rejected. Mr. Mohan Parasaran, learned Additional Solicitor General 
appearing for the appellant submitted that approach of the Commission 
is legally not tenable. The Commission has not kept the scope and ambit 
of the power exercisable under Section 245D (6) of the Act in its 
proper perspective. The application filed by the appellant-revenue was 
not really for review. There was no question of any review involved. 
There was also no question of the subsequent Bench sitting in appeal 
over the earlier Bench's decision. The jurisdiction under Section 
245D(6) is exercisable when it is subsequently found by the Commission 
that the settlement had been obtained by fraud or misrepresentation of 
facts. The Commission after having held that the case of the appellant 
was not covered by Section 245D(6) of the Act had given clean chit to 
the assessee by abruptly concluding that the stand presented by the 
assessee's counsel was acceptable. It also lightly brushed aside the 
evidentiary value of the materials placed on record to justify the 
stand of the revenue that the settlement order had been obtained by 
fraud or misrepresentation of facts. The fraud and/or misrepresentation 
of facts are tell tale. The investigating officer had categorically 
stated that the alleged lenders categorically denied to have advanced 
any loan. There was inherent improbability in the assessee's stand 
that seven persons would keep huge sums of money and would give money 
on the same day by cash. Since there was no assessment question of 
furnishing certificates about assessment from unconnected persons is 
sufficient to show misrepresentation of facts. No returns of income 
were filed by the lenders upto relevant time. Therefore, it was 
submitted that the order of the Commission needs to be set aside. In response, Mr. C.S. Agarwal, learned counsel appearing for the 
assessee submitted that finality is attached to the order passed under Section 245D (4) in terms of Section 245I . It is only the Commission 
which has the power to initiate proceedings to set aside the order 
passed under Section 245D(4) if it on its own comes to the conclusion 
that the order was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation of facts. The 
revenue cannot initiate any proceedings in terms of Section 245D(6) . 
Further, all the relevant aspects were considered by the Commission 
earlier. The CIT had ample opportunity to object to any statement made 
in the application for settlement. The Commission while dealing with 
the application had dealt with the aspects involved and had passed the 
order. On mere unsubstantiated allegation regarding lack of capacity to 
advance loans, alleged inherent improbabilities, or the authorities 
giving a different version after having issued certificates, there is 
no scope for coming to the conclusion that there was any fraud or 
misrepresentation of facts. Therefore, the Commission had rightly 
refused to accept the prayer made by the CIT as it would have amounted 
to review of the earlier order and in essence would have amounted to 
the subsequent Bench sitting in appeal over the decision of the earlier 
Bench. Sections 245A to 245V are covered by Chapter XIXA of the Act . A new Chapter XIX-A was introduced by the Taxation Laws 
(amendment) Act, 1975 (in short the 'Amendment Act') w.e.f. 1.4.1976. 
The Commission is constituted by the Central Government for the 
settlement of cases under Chapter XIX-A. The expression "case" as 
appearing in Section 245A(b) refers to any proceeding under the Act for 
the assessment or re-assessment of income of any person in respect of 
any year or years or by way of appeal or revision in connection with 
such assessment or re-assessment which may be pending before any 
income-tax authority on the date on which an application under sub-
section (1) of Section 245C is made. It further provides that where any 
appeal or application for revision has been preferred after the expiry 
of the specified period and which has not been admitted then the same 
shall not be deemed to be a proceeding pending within the meaning of 
clause (b) of Section 245A . Scheme of Chapter XIX-A shows that the 
filing of application by the assessee is a unilateral act, and the 
department may not be aware of the same. It has to be noted that if an 
application for settlement is filed under Section 245C , it is not 
automatically admitted. Section 245D deals with procedure on receipt of 
an application under Section 245C . Under sub-section (1) thereof, the 
Commission after following the prescribed procedure can allow the 
application to be proceeded with or rejected. Only after the Commission 
allows the petition to be proceeded with, it exercises the power of 
settlement. One basic feature of Chapter XIXA is that it relates to income 
which was not disclosed before the income-tax authorities. This is 
evident from Section 245C which reads as follows: (Underlined for emphasis)

	Prior to substitution by Finance Act, 1987 w.e.f. 1.6.1987, the 
proviso to sub-section (1) read as follows: The word "fifty thousand rupees" in the earlier proviso has been 
substituted by the expression "one hundred thousand rupees" by the Finance Act, 1995 w.e.f. 1.7.1995. Some changes were introduced by 
Finance Act, 1987 w.e.f. 1.6.1987 in sub section (1B) and (1C) which do 
not have much importance for the present appeal. The Commission is not bound to proceed with any application filed 
under Section 245C as is clear from Section 245D . The special 
provisions so far as relevant read as follows: (underlined for emphasis)

Sub-section (1) of Section 245C makes it clear that at any stage of a 
case relating to him an assessee may make an application to the 
Commission disclosing fully and truly his income which has not been 
disclosed before the Assessing Officer. To put it differently, an 
assessee cannot approach the Commission for settlement of his case in 
respect of an income which has already been disclosed before the 
Assessing Officer. The income disclosed as contemplated is in the 
nature of voluntary disclosure of concerned income. Section 245F dealing with powers and procedure of Settlement 
Commission provides that in addition to the powers conferred on the 
Settlement Commission under Chapter XIX-A, it has all the powers which 
are vested in the income-tax authority under the Act. Sub-section (2) 
is of vital importance and provides that where an application made 
under Section 245C has been allowed to be proceeded with under Section 
245D , the Commission shall until an order is passed under sub-section 
(4) of Section 245D , subject to the provisions of sub-section (3) of 
that section have exclusive jurisdiction to exercise the powers and 
perform the functions of the income-tax authority under the Act in 
relation to the case. In essence, the Commission assumes jurisdiction 
to deal with the matter after it decides to proceed with the 
application and continues to have the jurisdiction till it makes an 
order under Section 245D . Section 245D(4) is the charging section and 
sub-section (6) prescribes the modalities to be adopted to give effect 
to the order. It has to be noted that the language used in Section 245D is "order" and not "assessment". The order is not described as the 
original assessment or regular assessment or re-assessment. In that 
sense, the Commission exercises a plenary jurisdiction. The Commission's power of settlement has to be exercised in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act. Though the Commission has 
sufficient elbowroom in assessing the income of the applicant and it 
cannot make any order with a term of settlement which would be in 
conflict with the mandatory provisions of the Act like in the quantum 
and payment of tax and the interest. The object of the legislature, in 
introducing Section 245C is to see that protracted proceedings before 
the authorities or in Courts are avoided by resorting to settlement of 
cases. In this process an assessee cannot expect any reduction in 
amounts statutorily payable under the Act. A bare reading of Section 245D(6) shows that every order passed 
under sub-section (4) has to provide the terms of the settlement and 
also to provide that the settlement shall be void if it is found 
subsequently by the Commission that it has been obtained by fraud or by 
misrepresentation of facts. The plea of the assessee that the 
initiation of proceeding to find out as to whether the order has been 
obtained by fraud or misrepresentation of facts has to be initiated by 
the Commission suo motu is not spelt out in the said sub-section. It is 
a statutory requirement that a condition has to be incorporated in the 
order passed under sub-section (4) specifying that settlement shall be 
void if it is subsequently found by the Commission that it has been 
obtained by fraud or misrepresentation of facts. The decision whether 
the order has been obtained by fraud or misrepresentation of facts is 
that of the Commission. But it is not a requirement that the Commission 
must suo motu initiate the action. If the revenue has material to show 
that the order was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation of facts it 
certainly can move the Commission for decision on that issue. 
Otherwise, even if in a given case there is material in abundance to 
establish that the order was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation of 
facts, yet the void order would continue to be operative because of the 
fortuitous circumstance that the Commission does not suo motu initiate 
the proceeding. Merely because Section 245I provides that the order of 
Settlement is conclusive it does not take away the power of the 
Commission to decide whether the settlement order had been obtained by 
fraud or misrepresentation of facts. Any other interpretation would 
render sub-section (6) otiose. The Commission had really missed the 
true scope and ambit of Section 245D(6) . If the CIT was able to 
establish that the earlier decision was void because of 
misrepresentation of the facts, certainly it was open to the Commission 
to decide that issue. It cannot be called by any stretch of imagination 
to be review of the earlier judgment or the subsequent Bench sitting in 
appeal over the earlier Bench's decision. Further the conclusions of 
the Commission regarding the genuineness of the loan transactions were 
arrived at without indicating reasons. It only referred to the 
respective stands and the submissions of the assessee's counsel. That 
was not the proper way to deal with the matter. The foundation for settlement is an application which assessee 
can file at any stage of a case relating to him in such form and in 
such manner as is prescribed. The statutory mandate is that the 
application shall contain "full and true disclosure" of the income 
which has not been disclosed before the assessing officer, the manner 
in which such income has been derived. The fundamental requirement of 
the application under Section 245C is that full and true disclosure of 
the income has to be made, along with the manner in which such income 
was derived. On receipt of the application, the Commission calls for 
report from the Commissioner and on the basis of the material contained 
in the report and having regard to the nature and circumstances of the 
case or complexity of the investigation involved therein, it can either 
reject the application or allow the application to be proceeded with as 
provided in Section 245D(1) . It has to be noted that the Commission exercises power in respect 
of income which was not disclosed before the authorities in any 
proceeding, but are disclosed in the petition under Section 245C . It 
is not that any amount of undisclosed income can be brought to the 
notice of the Commission in the said petition. Commission exercises 
jurisdiction if the additional amount of tax on such undisclosed income 
is more than a particular figure (which at different points of time 
exceeded rupees fifty thousand or rupees one hundred thousand, as the 
case may be). The assessee must have in addition furnished the return 
of income which he is or was required to furnish under any of the 
provisions of the Act. In essence the requirement is that there must be 
an income disclosed in a return furnished and undisclosed income 
disclosed to the Commission by a petition under Section 245C . 
There is a purpose why the legislature has prescribed the 
condition relating to declaration of the order void when it is obtained 
by fraud or misrepresentation of facts. It cannot be said that there 
has been a true and fair declaration of income which is the pre-
requisite for settlement by the Commission. If an order is obtained by 
fraud or misrepresentation of facts, it cannot be said that there was 
true and fair disclosure. It was noted here that unlike Section 139 of 
the Act which provides for filing of revised return, there is no 
provision for revision of an application made in terms of Section 245C . 
That shows clear legislative intent that the applicant for settlement 
has to make a true and fair declaration from the threshold. It is on 
the basis of the application received that the Commissioner calls for 
report to decide whether the application is to be rejected or permitted 
to be continued. The declaration contemplated in Section 245C is in 
the nature of voluntary disclosure of concealed income, but as noted 
above it must be true and fair disclosure. Voluntary disclosure and 
making a full and true disclosure of the income are necessary pre-
conditions for invoking the Commission's jurisdiction. In the aforesaid background it would be proper to direct the 
Commission to re-hear the matter. It shall be open to the parties to 
place any further material which they may choose to place for 
consideration in support of their respective stands. The Commission 
shall decide the matter afresh keeping in view the observations made 
above. It is, however, made clear that we have not expressed any 
opinion on the facts of the case. The appeal is accordingly disposed of. Costs made easy.