1. The present application under Section 528 BNSS has been moved by the accused-applicants to quash the Charge Sheet No. 70/2025 dated 12.02.2025, the cognizance taking order dated 28.02.2025 and the entire proceedings of Criminal Case No. 1686/2025 ( State Vs. Neeraj Kumar and another ) arising out of Case Crime No. 883/2024, for offence under Section 376(2)(n) , 323 & 506 IPC and Section 67 of Information Technology (Amendment) Act, Police Station- Izzatnagar, District- Bareilly against applicant no. 1 and Sections 354(d) & 506 IPC and Section 67 of Information Technology (Amendment) Act against applicant no. 2. 2. Heard Shri Amit Kumar Srivastava, learned counsel for applicants, Shri Anurag Kumar Pandey, learned counsel for opposite party no. 2 and Shri Chandra Badan, learned A.G.A. for State. 3. The first information report has been lodged by opposite party no. 2 on 01.12.2024 at 20:37 hours against the accused applicants alleging therein that opposite party no. 2 (victim) is a married woman whose husband is in Army. During her preparation of PCS (Provincial Civil Service), she became friend with one Mamta, who has introduced the victim with her brother accused applicant no. 1 Neeraj Kumar. On 07.08.2022 accused applicant no. 1 has called the victim at Rajrani Hotel, Pilibhit bypass road Bareilly to attend his birthday celebration, on that date accused has forcefully raped her and recorded her indecent videos and photographs. The victim was then threatened that he will make the video viral. On threatening of making the video viral, the accused has again called the victim at Rajrani Hotel on 14.08.2022, thereafter on 27.10.2022 and committed rape on her. She was again called to hotel Radisson Bareilly on 18.11.2023, where she was again subjected to rape on being blackmailed. On 19.05.2024, the accused has called the victim on her mobile phone and threatened to make her video viral. Thereafter, he has transferred those video and photo to his cousin brother, applicant no. 2, who has also threatened her to make her video viral and asked her for sexual favours, but she has refused the demand, on which the accused applicant no. 2 has sent the videos and photographs to the family members of victim and made her life became miserable, she has also thought of ending her life. 4. In the statement of victim recorded under Section 180 BNSS, she has stated that while preparing for PCS examination, she came in contact with one Mamta, who has intimated her that her brother Neeraj is also preparing for PCS examination and she could take his help. The victim has started visiting the house of Neeraj for taking notes. After sometime Neeraj has called the victim at Rajrani Hotel to celebrate his birthday, where he has forcefully entered into physical relation with her and recorded her videos. Subsequently, he has started blackmailing her and called her to hotel and committed rape on her. Further reveals that he has transferred the videos to his cousin brother Shobhit, who has also started blackmailing her and has passed all the videos to her family members. 5. The victim in her statement under Section 183 BNSS has further disclosed that she came in contact with Mamta through facebook in the year 2022, while she was preparing for her PCS examination. Mamta has intimated her that her brother Neeraj got selected in PCS and could help in getting her examination cracked. The two started visiting each others house and sometime she also meet Neeraj outside but only for the purpose of taking guidance. She further stated that once Neeraj has called her at Rajrani Hotel on his birthday. She entered the room of the hotel. She was tired and drank the water kept in the hotel room, within no time she felt dizziness, on which Neeraj entered the room and has forcefully raped her. He has also recorded videos of committing rape, he has not shown it to her but has been consistently threatening that the video would be made viral. The applicant no. 1 also beat her and she was repeatedly subjected to rape on threatening of getting the videos viral. Whenever she refused to enter into sexual intercourse, the accused used to threaten that he will kill her children and kidnap them, due to which she could not intimate the same to her husband. Subsequently, accused Neeraj has transferred the videos to his brother Shobhit, who has also started blackmailing her. She further submits that, last time accused Neeraj has entered into sexual intercourse with her at her residence. The cousin brother of Neeraj has also blackmailed her and tried to enter into physical relations, but she has refused. On which both the applicants have transferred the videos and photographs to her husband and family members. She further states that she has two sons of 13 & 12 years of age. Further submits that on 18.11.2023 she was called at hotel Radisson and was not only beaten up but also raped. 6. The statement of husband of victim recorded under Section 161 CrPC is considered on the point, what the victim has stated about the transfer of video. He on questioning about the video received to his mobile phone, has stated that he has deleted the videos and photographs, which were sent by Neeraj and Shobhit, hence, presently not available with him. 7. Raja Ram the father of victim has stated in his statement under Section 161 CrPC that he has not received any videos or photographs. He further submits that his elder daughter (victim) was married in the year 2006, having two sons. 8. The statement of Mamta Rani, whose name is reflected in the FIR, has stated in her statement under Section 161 CrPC that she did not know the victim but received a friend request on 03.04.2021 on her facebook account. For about a year, she did not accept the friend request but finally has accepted the same on 03.04.2022 and started chatting. With no time there was friendship between the two and frequent visits between the families. She states that she is already married, having two children and working in primary school at Bareilly, since 2016. 9. She further states that within no time she became apprehensive of the behaviour of victim and maintained distance with her, but she has no knowledge about the relations between Neeraj and Suman (victim). She submits that accused Neeraj is her real brother and working as Child Development Program Officer under the Government of Uttar Pradesh, Director of ICDS. 10. Shri Adesh Kumar, the Manager of hotel Rajrani has given his statement under Section 161 CrPC that the hotel registers of the year 2022-23 are with CO-III, as such, he could not provide any report about the stay of visitors during that period. 11. Jakir Ali, the Manger of hotel Radisson has stated that on 18.11.2023 one Room No. 506 was booked through makemytrip.com app by Neeraj Kumar for two persons. On 18.11.2023 at about 15:12 hrs. there was entry in the hotel and on 19.11.2023 at about 9:39 hrs. exit from the hotel. He has provided the IDs and bill of the visitors but stated that the CCTV camera records is kept only for 15 days, which is not available. 12. Learned counsel for applicants submits that the FIR is grossly delayed. The informant is a married lady having two children, who has some oblique motive to fulfil. The record shows that the victim herself has sent friend request to the sister of accused through facebook, came closer to her and thereafter made distance with Mamta and came closer to accused applicant Neeraj. It is the statement of victim that initially the accused applicant Neeraj and victim used to meet at their residence and sometime outside. The victim has changed her stand in the FIR and in her statement that on the date of birthday celebration of accused applicant Neeraj, she was called at Rajrani Hotel. At one place she has stated that she was being forcefully raped and at the other, she states that she has taken the water kept in hotel room, which has a dizziness effect on her and she was raped. She herself has stated that her video of sexual intercourse was shot by the accused Neeraj but he has not showed it to her but has blackmailed her through those videos and raped her at hotels. Further submits that there is no material that the videos and photographs of victim were transferred to her husband and family members because the husband of victim has stated that he received videos but deleted the same and father of the victim states that he never received any videos. Thus, submits that the basis of blackmail does not exist and the victim was consistently being raped, which is only considered to be the consensual and consenting sexual relations between the accused applicant no. 1 and the victim. Further submits that invoked provision of Information Technology Act is not attracted against the applicants. In substantiation of arguments, learned counsel has relied on the judgments in Tomaso Bruno and another Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh reported in (2015) 7 SCC 178 (Paragraph No. 21 & 27) , on the point of non availability of best evidence. On the point of delay of lodging the FIR the applicant relied on the judgments in Hasmukhlal D. Vora and another Vs. State of Tamil Nadu reported in ( 2022) 15 SCC 164 (Paragraph No. 23 & 24) and Chanchalpati Das Vs. State of West Bengal and another reported in (2023) 20 SCC 120 (Paragraph No. 21), on the point of quashing of charge sheet relied on the judgments in Pankaj Singh Vs. State of Haryana reported in [(2024(3) JIC 124 (SC)] (Paragraph No. 11 & 15) and Shiv Pratap Singh Rana Vs. State of M.P. and another reported in [2024(128) ACC 966] (Paragraph No. 24 & 25) . Further submits that the mobile chats annexed with the application shows that it is the victim, who has pressurized the accused applicant no. 1 to enter into relations. The relevant paragraphs of each citation are quoted underneath:- ... 27. As per Section 114 (g) of the Evidence Act, if a party in possession of best evidence which will throw light in controversy withholds it, the court can draw an adverse inference against him notwithstanding that the onus of proving does not lie on him. The presumption under Section 114 (g) of the Evidence Act is only a permissible inference and not a necessary inference. Unlike presumption under Section 139 of Negotiable Instruments Act, where the court has no option but to draw statutory presumption under Section 114 of the Evidence Act. Under Section 114 of the Evidence Act, the Court has the option; the court may or may not raise presumption on the proof of certain facts. Drawing of presumption under Section 114(g) of Evidence Act depends upon the nature of fact required to be proved and its importance in the controversy, the usual mode of proving it; the nature, quality and cogency of the evidence which has not been produced and its accessibility to the party concerned, all of which have to be taken into account. It is only when all these matters are duly considered that an adverse inference can be drawn against the party. In Hasmukhlal D. Vora (supra):- In Chanchalpati Das (supra) :- In Pankaj Singh (supra) :- . 15.Thus, the evidence of the Prosecutrix and the other prosecution witnesses shows that more than one month before the alleged incident, the appellant-accused and the Prosecutrix exchanged frequent WhatsApp messages. Secondly, the appellant- accused met the Prosecutrix when she was travelling on the way to Hansi. The Prosecutrix had informed the appellant about her visit to Hansi. Thirdly, while coming out of the hotel room, the Prosecutrix did not raise any protests, did not make any hue and cry, or did not complain. She signed the hotel register while leaving the hotel with the appellant. Lastly, while entering the Hotel, the appellant-accused and the Prosecutrix posed as husband and wife. All this has to be appreciated in light of the fact that we are dealing with a case of a well-educated victim who was married and a graduate. Her age at the time of the incident was about 28 years. In Shiv Pratap Singh Rana :- 13. Learned counsel for opposite party no. 2 and learned A.G.A. for State have stated that the delay in lodging the FIR is fully explained as there were threats of life on the victim, moreover, the victim was merely saving her family and family life being a married woman. On the point of delay in lodging the FIR and its explanation the learned counsel has relied on the judgment in Deepak Vs. State of Haryana reported in ( 2015) 4 SCC 762 (Paragraph No. 15) and Manendra Prasad Tiwari Vs. Amit Kumar Tiwari and another reported in (2022) 20 SCC 757 (Paragraph Nos. 21, 22 and 23). The relevant paragraphs of each citation are quoted underneath:- In Manendra Prasad Tiwari (supra):- 14. Further submits that accused applicant no. 1 is a public servant and the opposite party-victim is aspirants of PCS examination. She was taking guidance from the accused applicant no. 1 but the applicant has committed rape on the victim and shot indecent videos and photographs to blackmail her. The several act of rape on victim was due to blackmailing her to viral the video. Further submits that the accused no. 1 has after exploiting the victim through indecent videos and photographs has transferred those obscene videos to his cousin brother, who has started blackmailing the victim. It is then that the victim has protested and lodged the FIR. Further submits that there is no consent of victim for the sexual intercourse, on the contrary, she was subjected to continuous fear of injury and her consent was subjected to that fear. Hence, it cannot be considered that the accused applicant entered into sexual intercourse with the victim on her consent, which has been obtained on fear of getting the videos viral. On this point of argument, learned counsel has relied on the judgment of co-ordinate Bench of this Court in Raghav Kumar Vs. State of U.P. and another passed in Application U/S 482 No. 9501 of 2019 (Paragraph Nos. 20, 22 & 23). The relevant paragraphs are quoted underneath:- 22. Thus, in the light of the judgements of the aforesaid position of law, if the facts of the instant case are examined, we will find that though the applicant and the opposite party no.2 were friends, the opposite party no.2 had never agreed for any relationship with the applicant other than the friendship and that is apparent from the fact that initially the opposite party no.2 has rejected the proposal of marriage with the applicant. However, she was continuously in talking terms with the applicant. As per the allegations in the F.I.R., which are supported in her 161 Cr.P.C . statement as well as in her 164 Cr.P.C . statement, the applicant herein has taken opposite party no.2 to his house on the pretext of illness and hospitalization of his mother where she has been given tea which was intoxicated and after consuming the said tea the opposite party no.2 became unconscious and she was sexually assaulted without her consent and nude pictures of the opposite party no.2 were taken, thereafter, she was blackmailed to give consent to the relationship. Therefore, for the initial incident as alleged in the F.I.R. there was no consent on the part of the opposite party no.2 herein. Therefore, the offence of rape is prima facie constituted against the applicant, however, the subsequent relationship of the applicant with the opposite party no.2 was initially under threat perception created by the applicant and his family members and subsequently a promise of marriage was also stated to have been given by the applicant, which was accepted by the opposite party no.2 under the threat perceptions created by the applicant and his family members. However subsequently, they are stated to have been in consensual relationship for sufficiently a long period of time and applicant and his family member have refused to marry the opposite party no.2, the instant F.I.R. has been lodged and the fact that they were in continuous physical relationship is sufficiently established during the investigation and even by the photographs annexed as Annexure '21' in the instant application, which has also been found established during the investigation from the examination of the hotel staff where they used to stay. CONCLUSION 23. Therefore, in the considered opinion of this Court since the initial relationship was established by the applicant with an element of cheating, threat etc., against the will of the opposite party no.2, prima facie an offence under Section 376 I.P.C. is made out against the applicant. Though, the subsequent relationship, which appears to be a consensual relationship under the promise of marriage, however, such consent is also stated to be given by the opposite party no.2 initially under the threat perception created by the applicant herein. Therefore, in the considered opinion of this Court the judgements relied upon by the applicant in Shivashankar (supra), Pramod Suryabhan Pawar (supra) and Jiyaullah (supra) are of no help to the applicant, in view of the initial act committed against the will of the opposite party no.2. Therefore, this Court does not find any good reason to quash the proceedings as prayed by the applicant, in view thereof, the instant application is accordingly dismissed. 15. This Court has taken into consideration, rival submissions made by the parties and perused the record. 16. The point of concern before this Court, on the point of quashing of charge sheet, cognizance taking order and the proceeding of the criminal case is whether there is prima facie case of repeated rape of victim by accused applicant no. 1 and disrobing the modesty of victim by accused applicant no. 2 which required to be tried or the trial of the case would lead to prejudice cause to the applicants and would be an abuse of process of law. 17. If the contents of the FIR, statements under Sections 180 & 183 BNSS of the victim is prima facie taken into consideration, following points have been culled out from the bare of perusal on the same: (Avnish Saxena, J.)
 

 
Date:- 16.02.2026. Sharad/-