Sixteenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> 

 

title: Statements regarding Government Business for the week commencing the 1st August, 2016. THE MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FARMERS WELFARE AND MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS (SHRI S.S. AHLUWALIA): I beg to lay on the Table:- 3.        Consideration and agreeing to the amendments made by Rajya Sabha in the Enemy Property (Amendment and Validation) Bill, 2016, as passed by Lok Sabha and as reported by Select Committee of Rajya Sabha, after it is passed by Rajya Sabha. 4.        Consideration and agreeing to the amendments made by Rajya Sabha in the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty Second Amendment) Bill, 2014, as passed by Lok Sabha and as reported by Select Committee of Rajya Sabha, after it is passed by Rajya Sabha. 5.        Consideration and passing of the Mental Health Care Bill, 2013, after it is passed by Rajya Sabha. 6.        Discussion and voting on Supplementary Demands for Grants (General) for 2016-17. 7.       Introduction, consideration and passing of the related Appropriation Bill. DR. SHASHI THAROOR ( THIRUVANANTHAPURAM ): Sir, I hereby give notice of my intention to make a submission on Statement by Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs regarding Government Business for the following week, commencing from 1st August, 2016, on the following matters, namely – 1.    The urgent need for revision of the definition of “River Conservation Zones” under the draft notification under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 for the State of Kerala. 2.    The need to address the rejection of Indian students’ visas on grounds that they could be involved in “the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction” which implies doubts about India’s exemplary record of Non-Proliferation. डॉ. किरिट पी. सोलंकी ( अहमदाबाद ) : स्पीकर महोदया, मेरा आपसे निवेदन है कि अगले सप्ताह की कार्य सूची में निम्नलिखित वि­षयों का समावेश किया जाए :- माननीय अध्यक्ष : श्री रवीन्द्र कुमार राय : उपस्थित नहीं। डॉ. किरीट सोमैया। DR. KIRIT SOMAIYA ( MUMBAI NORTH EAST ): Sir, I request you to include the following issues for discussion in the List of Business for next week – 1.   Despite several meetings with the mobile operators, directions from TRAI to them, the issue of frequent call drops of cell companies has not been resolved. The mobile companies are least bothered to adhere to TRAI directives. Consumers are suffering. Harassment of double abnormal non-transparent billing, call drops and exploitation of consumers by these companies. Discussion is needed on the issue. 2.   In the name of solar power project some influential people are indulging into land grabbing, money laundering activities. It is observed in Bikaner belt of Rajasthan and Kerala. Discussion is needed to pin down such type of activities and take action against the perpetrators of such scam. श्रीमती रमा देवी ( शिवहर ):  महोदया, अगले सप्ताह की कार्यवाही के दौरान मेरे निम्नलिखित वि­षयों को शामिल करने हेतु अनुमति प्रदान करने की कृपा करें :- श्री कौशलेन्द्र कुमार ( नालंदा ) : महोदया, लोक सभा के आगामी सप्ताह की कार्य-सूची में निम्नलिखित विषयों को जोड़ा जाये :- श्री पंकज चौधरी ( महाराजगंज ):महोदया, लोक सभा की अगले सप्ताह 1.8.16 से 5.8.16 की बैठकों में निम्न वि­षय को शामिल करने की कृपा करें। पूरे देश में केन्द्र सरकार तथा सार्वजनिक क्षेत्र के उपक्रमों की जमीनें पड़ी हैं जिनका उपयोग नहीं हो रहा है। खाली पड़ी जमीनों पर अतिक्रमण हो रहा है। जमीन के अभाव में केन्द्र की अनेकों परियोजनाएं लम्बित हैं। ऐसी सभी जमीनों की जानकारी एकत्र करके उनका डेटा एक स्थान पर किया जाए और उनका उपयोग विभिन्न योजनाओं के लिए किया जाए। श्री ओम बिरला ( कोटा ) : अध्यक्ष महोदया, मैं निम्नलिखित वि­षयों को अगले सप्ताह की कार्य सूची में सम्मिलित किए जाने के लिए प्रस्ताव प्रस्तुत करना चाहता हूं:- SHRI K. ASHOK KUMAR ( KRISHNAGIRI ): Madam, the following item may be taken for discussion during the next week’s business: