This appeal by the plaintiff is directed against the

judgment and decree dated 08.10.1999 passed in

O.S.No.6303/1993 by the learned II Addl. City Civil

Judge (CCH-17), City Civil Court, Bengaluru ('Trial

Court' for short). 2. For the sake of convenience, the parties are

referred to as per their status before the Trial Court. 3. The plaintiff is a registered company engaged

in the business of manufacture and sale of various

components of Colour Television sets, Black and White

Television sets, Computer Monitors etc., The plaintiff

has its factory at 17th K.M. Old Madras Road,

Bangalore. 4. The defendant No.1 is a Bank, the defendant

No.2 is the Union of India and the defendant No.3 is the

Collector of Customs, the defendant Nos.4 and 5 are the

employees of the plaintiff's company. 5. The plaint averments are that the plaintiff in

the course of its manufacturing activities, imports

several components and parts and these imported goods

are cleared by the customs authority at Madras port or

Bangalore air cargo complex as per the prescribed -5- procedure. The plaintiff submits that sometimes the

delivery of the goods imported is taken immediately at

the Madras port itself by paying appropriate customs

duty. Often, the imported goods are brought from

Madras and warehoused in the customs bonded

warehouse at Bangalore on the plaintiff filing a Bill of

Entry before the Madras Customs and following the

prescribed procedure for lodgement under the Customs

Act, 1962 and the Rules framed thereunder. One such

bonded warehouse was in the plaintiff's premises and

was maintained by the Central Warehousing

Corporation. The plaintiff depending upon its

requirement for production activities, would take steps

for debonding such goods as are required. The

procedure adopted for clearing/debonding and

assessment of duty of the imported goods is briefly

explained as under: 6 challan (in 4 sets) bearing the endorsement

of the Customs Division in the respective

column to the Appellant. The duty so

assessed, is to be paid under the TR-6

Challans. 6. The customs duty was being paid by the

plaintiff and accepted by the defendant No.1 - Bank on

account of the customs authorities at the designated

branch of Canara Bank in Bangalore City (defendant

No.1) as the said bank was acting as an authorized

agent as per the public notice dated 12.03.1986 issued

by the defendant No.3. Defendant Nos.2 and 3 would

release the goods only on proof of payment of the

customs duty through the defendant No.1 - Bank. The

said duty was paid by cheques drawn by the Authorized

Officer of the plaintiff - company under TR-6 challans.

The customs duty was paid by cheques drawn by the

authorized officer of plaintiff's company under TR-6

challans. After the cheques being honoured, Bank

would retain the challans with receipt of payment

endorsed thereon with the Bank stamp and signature of

the receiving officer. Two copies would be delivered to

the plaintiff - company, one to be retained by the

company and the other to be forwarded to the Customs -8- Superintendent who would enter it in the bond register

and issue passout order, on handing over the same to

the inspector of the warehouse, goods were released.

Amongst the two copies of TR-6 challans retained by the

bank, one was forwarded to the customs department

and the other was retained by the bank for record

purpose. 7. The plaintiff was a constituent of the

defendant No.1 - Bank for many years and has

sanctioned various financial facilities to the plaintiff

such as open cash credit; bills discounting; term loans;

documentary bills purchase; letter of guarantee and

letter of credit etc., Plaintiff - company has several

accounts with the defendant No.1 - Bank viz.. Some time in the last week of August 1990, the plaintiff

came to know that some irregularities had occurred in - 10 - the defendant No.1 - Bank relating to acceptance of

customs duty and issuance of receipted challans. The

cheque bearing No.157890 dated 22.8.1989 for

Rs.6,64,135/- drawn in favour of 'Yourselves-037

customs' and crossed 'Account payee only' tendered to

defendant No.1 - Bank against TR-6 challan for

removing goods from the bonded warehouse had not

been credited to the said account but instead the

defendant No.1 - Bank without plaintiff's due authority

and contrary to the mandate in the cheque issued eight

demand drafts in favour of 'Reserve Bank of India' A/c

Collector of Customs, Bombay. 8. After noticing the said irregularity, plaintiff

by its letter dated 30.08.1990 addressed to the Collector

of Customs (defendant No.3) about the said irregularity

suspecting that one of the employee by name

A.W.Akram (defendant No.4) must have had indulged in

it and accordingly a complaint was lodged on the same - 11 - day with the jurisdictional police station. On

investigation, it was noticed that the bank - defendant

No.1 had unauthorisedly issued demand drafts

favouring the customs and had even applied proceeds of

the cheques for payment to other private parties as well. 9. Thereafter, the plaintiff was served with five

notices dated 14.09.1990, 01.10.1990, 30.10.1990,

06.11.1990 and 20.11.1990 from the Collector of

Customs, demanding payment from plaintiff towards

the remaining unpaid customs duty in respect of goods

cleared by the plaintiff aggregating to Rs.3,95,11,321-51

less a sum of Rs.6,64,135/- to which credit had been

given. Customs department issued a show-cause notice

dated 18.04.1991 calling upon the plaintiff to show

cause why they should not be prosecuted for clearing

the goods without payment of duty. The said notice was

challenged before this Hon'ble Court in

W.P.No.14092/1991 wherein, Rule Nisi was issued - 12 - staying further proceedings by the Collector of Customs

vide its order dated 14.08.1991. 10. At the relevant time, defendant No.4 was the

Assistant Purchase Officer and defendant No.5 was the

Accounts Assistant in the plaintiff - company. After

noticing the irregularities in the payment towards the

customs duty during the period from 31.07.1987 to

16.08.1990, the plaintiff suspected that defendant

Nos.4 and 5 in collusion with the officials of the

defendant No.1 - Bank must have played illegalities. On

the complaint lodged, the police had arrested defendant

Nos.4 and 5 and the investigation was transferred to the

CBI from the police. It was contended that the gross

negligence and disregard of the instructions of the

plaintiff as drawer of cheques contained in the cheques

demonstrates total disregard of the obligations of the

defendant No.1 - Bank as banker, both in relation to the

constituent viz., the plaintiff and its own principal viz., - 13 - customs authorities and the Central Government. The

plaintiff cannot be made a victim for the fraudulent acts

of the defendant No.1 - Bank officials and/or customs

authorities or Government officials in dealing with the

plaintiff's account and the amounts credited by it for

payment of customs duty to the Government. 11. The sum of Rs.3,88,47,186-51 was collected

by the defendant No.1 - Bank as an agent of defendant

No.2, as such, defendant Nos.2 or 3 cannot claim the

same again. Any such claim has to be only against the

collecting agent, the defendant No.1 - Bank. 12. It was contended that the defendant No.1 -

Bank having realised their lapses, pending full

investigation into the matter, sanctioned a loan of

Rupees Three Crores to enable the plaintiff to comply

with the demand made by the customs authorities and

that amount has been paid to the customs authorities

on 01.12.1990 by a pay order issued by the defendant - 14 - No.1 - Bank in favour of the customs authorities. The

balance amount was met by the plaintiff from their own

accounts with the defendant No.1 - Bank. The plaintiff

has executed the promissory note for the amount of

Rupees Three crores. 13. On these set of pleadings, the plaintiff has

sought for the following reliefs: i) Directing defendants 2 and 3 to
 refund to plaintiff the sum of Rs.3,88,47,186-51
 (Rupees Three Crores Eighty eight Lakhs Forty
 Seven Thousand One Hundred Eight Six and
 paise Fifty one only) collected by them from
 plaintiff between 9-10-1990 and 14-12-1990
 pursuant to their demand notices dated 14-09-
 1990, 1-10-1990, 30-10-1990, 6-11-1990 and 20-
 11-1990 issued by Defendant No.3, together with
 interest thereon at 20% per annum form the dates
 of payment till date of realisation, The amount of
 interest so far accrued upto the date of suit from
 the dates of payments works out to
 Rs.2,95,56,367/- (Rupees Two Crores Ninety five
 lakhs Fifty six thousand Three hundred & Sixty
 seven only). Accordingly the total amount which - 15 - plaintiff claims herein from Defendants 2 and 3 is
Rs.6,84,03,553-51 (Rupees Six Crores Eighty four
Lakhs Three thousand Five hundred & fifty three
and Paise fifty-one only). ii) Directing defendant No.1 bank to pay
the plaintiff the sum of Rs.3,88,47,186-51
(Rupees Three Crores Eighty-eight Lakhs Forty
Seven Thousand One Hundred Eight Six and
paise Fifty one only) which the plaintiff was
coerced to pay to Defendants 2 and 3 for the
second time pursuant to the demand notices
referred to above together with interest thereon at
20% per annum from the dates of payment till
date of realisation. The amount of interest so far
accrued upto the date of suit form the dates of
payment works out to Rs.2,95,56,367/- (Rupees
Two Crores Ninety-five lakhs Fifty-six thousand
Three hundred & Sixty-seven only). Accordingly
the total amount claimed by plaintiff from
defendant No.1 is Rs.6,84,03,553-51 (Rupees Six
Crores Eighty-four Lakhs Three thousand Five
hundred & fifty three and paise fifty-one only) iii) Directing defendants 4 and 5 to pay
to plaintiff the sum of Rs.3,88,47,186-51 (Rupees
Three Crores Eighty-eight Lakhs Forty Seven
Thousand One Hundred Eight Six and paise Fifty - 16 - one only) and Rs.2,95,56,367/- (Rupees Two
 Crores Ninety-five lakhs Fifty-six thousand Three
 hundred & Sixty-seven only) being interest at
 20% per annum till date in all Rs.6,84,03,553-51
 (Rupees six Crores Eighty-four Lakhs Three
 thousand Five hundred & fifty three and paise
 fifty-one only) by reason of their having benefited
 by the irregularities and illegalities committed by
 the 1st Defendant bank. iv) Current and future interest on all the
 above decretal amounts @ 20% per annum which
 is the prevalent bank rate of lending form this
 date to date of realisation; v) For costs of the suit and current and
 future interest thereon; vi) For award of such other or further
 reliefs as may be just and appropriate, in the
 circumstances of the case. 14. The defendant No.1 - Bank has filed the

written statement denying the allegations made against

it. The defence set up was that it was not an agent of

the Collector of Customs. The functions of the - 17 - defendant No.1 are governed by the Indian Banking

Companies Act, 1949 . The plaintiff by his conduct and

duty in words and action held out to the third parties

including the bank a tangible representation that the

defendant No.4 was his authorized person, he had the

necessary power incidental to the bonding goods, having

regard to the totality of circumstances and which are to

be reasonably gathered from the nature of his

employment and duties. The plaintiff has ratified and

acquiesced the whole transaction as such he is

estopped in law from pleading lack of authority in the

defendant No.4 in the performance of his duties having

presented him as his authorized representative. It was

contended that when the assessee like the plaintiff

presents the TR-6 challans along with the cheques for

payment of customs duties, the concerned officials of

the branch verify the particulars mentioned in the TR-6

challans to ascertain to which account, the proceeds of

the cheque must be credited and satisfy themselves that - 18 - the cheques are drawn by the authorized persons and

for the appropriate amounts as reflected in the TR-6

challans. Thereafter, the said TR-6 challans in

quadruplicate would be affixed with the impressions of

the bank's rubber seal and the concerned officials put

their signatures in token of having received and credited

the customs duty to the account of the customs.

Issuance of 143 cheques between the period 31.07.1987

to 16.08.1990 towards the payment of customs duty for

the release of the goods stored in the bonded warehouse

under the control of the defendant No.3 was

emphatically denied. Whenever the bank had received

cheques drawn in the name of 'Yourselves-037 customs'

without presenting them with TR-6 challans in

quadruplicate but accompanied by the instructions of

the plaintiff to issue demand drafts from the proceeds of

the cheques to the customs authority, the bank has

issued such drafts. Thus, there is no violation of any

mandate by the defendant as alleged. It was contended - 19 - that the word 'Yourselves' in the cheques permit the

defendant to draw the amounts from the plaintiff's

account mentioned in the cheques and to remit the

same to the account of the customs as per express and

apparent instructions contained in the instruments

presented along with the said cheques. 15. The TR-6 challans used to debond the goods

were forged challans. Such challans were never issued

by the defendant No.1 with branch rubber stamp seal

and the bank has not sent any of the copies of the TR-6

challans to the customs authorities. The rubber stamp

impressions, writing and signatures on the TR-6

challans were forged by the defendant No.4 as admitted

by him in the statement before the customs authorities

and the same has been admitted by the plaintiff in his

complaint to the police. It was submitted that under Section 237 of the Indian Contract Act, the plaintiff is

bound by the acts of the defendant No.4 and he is liable - 20 - to reimburse the defendant No.1 - Bank for the loss that

may suffer as a result of the show-cause notice issued

by the customs authorities. 16. Thus, it was submitted that no irregularities

were committed by the bank. When the crossed

cheques were submitted, the same were not enclosed

with TR-6 challans in the prescribed form. On the

contrary, there was a request to issue demand drafts.

The bank has acted on the instructions given by the

plaintiff. In such circumstances, the proceeds of the

cheques could not be applied to the credit of the

customs authorities as per the cheques mandate. Code

No.037 is a code number for customers for payment of

customs duty. Therefore, on the representation made

by the plaintiff or by his authorized agent, defendant

No.4 that the proceeds of the cheques should be used

for issue of drafts in favour of Reserve Bank of India

account, Collector of Customs, in good faith has issued - 21 - the demand drafts as the beneficiaries under the said

drafts were custom authorities themselves. 17. The plaintiff has debonded the goods

presenting the forged challans which never originated

from the branch of the defendant No.1, as such cannot

take advantage of his own fraud committed either by

himself or by his agent-defendant No.4. 18. It was submitted that the branch office of the

defendant No.1 at Cantonment Branch is classified as

an 'Exceptionally Large Branch (ELB)" and it is manned

by several officials and whenever the defendant No.1

receives cheques or other instruments with TR-6

challans in quadruplicate or other instruments or drafts

for payment of customs or any other duty payable to the

Government, the instruments so presented had to pass

through more than one official to make consequential or

relevant entries in the several appropriate registers

maintained for the said purpose and the quadruplicate - 22 - or other challans should be certified by the bank

officials and the said challans, must be sent to the

custom authorities or other state authorities in addition

to delivering two copies of such challans to the

assessee. As such, it is not only false but impracticable

for any one of the officials of the defendant No.1 - Bank

to collude with each other or with strangers or with

defendant Nos.4 and 5. 19. It was stated that the defendant Nos.2 and 3 are statutory bodies, they could not have permitted the

release of the goods unless they were satisfied that duty

in respect of such goods had really been paid or credited

by verification and comparison of the challans. The

allegations made against the defendant No.1 are

baseless and mis-founded. The defendant Nos.2 and 3

cannot have any cause of action against the defendant

No.1 for recovery of amount said to have been paid by

the plaintiff as alleged. The loan was sanctioned only - 23 - when the plaintiff approached the defendant No.1 -

Bank which cannot be misunderstood as the

involvement of the bank officials in the fraud. 20. The plaintiff's suit as against the defendant

No.1 - Bank is barred by time, as no cause of action has

arisen in plaintiff's favour as against this defendant.

Admittedly, the plaintiff had not paid any customs duty

earlier and the same was paid by it only when the

defendant Nos.2 and 3 demanded. The suit being time

barred, is liable to be dismissed. Accordingly, prayed to

dismiss the suit. 21. Defendant Nos.2 and 3 filed the written

statement submitting that the department is bound to

collect the duty on imported goods attracting levy of

customs, the action initiated by the department is well

within the power under the Customs Act and another

Enactments. The concern of the department is to

ensure that the designated bank has given credit to the - 24 - Government account under the head 037 (verified by

receipted TR-6 challans) before allowing clearance of

goods for home consumption. 22. The receipted challan produced as proof of

payment of customs duty are forged in the eye of law.

The omissions and commissions done by the defendant

No.1 - Bank are not binding on the department. It was

only at the time of negotiations and reconciliation, the

department came to know about the fake and forged

challans and the same was received from the PAO's

office, Bangalore, the involvement of the plaintiff's

employees being apparent, the plaintiff cannot disown

the illegal acts of its employees on the plea that the said

employees are not authorized to deal with the matter.

Indeed, the plaintiff was involved in abetment of the

offence of forgery and manipulation of challans. Mere

fact that the warehoused goods were allowed, clearance

cannot regularize the fraud committed by the plaintiff, - 25 - the demand of the department was in accordance with

the provisions of Section 28(q) and Section 72 of the

Customs Act, 1962. The Government is bound to accept

the payment made to Canara Bank if duly credited to its

account and not otherwise. Merely crediting the same

to the defendant No.1 - Bank, designated as the agent

of the customs cannot be held to be the discharge of

liability. Defendant Nos.4 and 5 being the employees of

the plaintiff, the suspected persons involved in the

forgery of challans and diverting the funds, the plaintiff

cannot be exonerated from the liability of payment of

customs duty. It was the duty of the plaintiff to ensure

credit of customs duty to the account of the

Government as per law. Plaintiff cannot disown its

liability and come with an allegation that double

payment has been made towards the customs duty.

The refund of the sum of Rs.3,88,47,186-51 claimed is

baseless. No duty has been collected for the second time

from the plaintiff under coercion, threat of prosecution - 26 - and stoppage of all clearance. The demand was made

as per law. No claim of refund would lie against the

defendant Nos.2 and 3 since there was no extra

payment made by the plaintiff towards customs duty.

The department has collected legitimate dues towards

the customs duty. There was absolutely no negligence

on the part of the department. With the aforesaid

statements, defendant Nos.2 and 3 sought for dismissal

of the suit. 23. Defendant No.5 appeared through its

counsel and filed the written statement denying the

plaint averments. It was submitted that the defendant

No.5 was employed as an Assistant Accountant in the

plaintiff's company. The allegations made against this

defendant are baseless and frivolous. This defendant

has been falsely implicated by the plaintiff

unnecessarily. It was narrated that the said defendant

was summoned by the Controller of Finance, Sri. K.B.

Ballulaya to his chamber on 12.09.1990, wherein, the - 27 - Sub-Inspector of Police was present, who ordered the

other two persons present therein to take this defendant

into custody. This defendant was illegally detained by

the police for a period two weeks. The Controller of

Finance, Sri. K.B. Ballulaya has played an act of

mischief to cover up his mischiefs. Later on, this

defendant submitted voluntary resignation to the

plaintiff's company. The claim made by the plaintiff

against this defendant is imaginary, cannot be justified.

As this defendant has not remitted any customs duty

payment through the Canara Bank and has not

collected any customs duty, paid TR-6 challans from the

bank, the allegation of misappropriation of the cheques

proceeds is baseless. Accordingly, he sought for

dismissal of the suit. 24. Defendant No.4 has not filed the written

statement though he was represented by a learned

counsel. - 28 - 25. Based on the pleadings, the Trial Court has

framed the issues as under:- defendant, to stop the payment pertaining to
cheque No.008553? 7. Whether the plaintiff proves that the
TR-6 challans are duly receipted by the Bank as
contended in paragraph 10 of the plaint? 8. Whether the defendant No.1 proves
that the draft charge and commission debited to
the account of the plaintiff by the First Defendant,
is reflected in the Annual Balance sheet of the
plaintiff company? 9. Whether the plaintiff proves that the
first defendant proves that the proceeds of cheque
bearing No.157020 dt:22.8.89 for Rs.6,64,135/-
had not been credited in the plaintiff's amount by
the first defendant and on the other hand the first
defendant, had issued eight demand drafts in
favour of RBI Account collector of customs without
the authority of the plaintiff? 10. Whether the plaintiff prove that
irregularities detected in the payment of duty and
application of the proceedings of the cheques
were due to the act of the first defendant bank? 11. Whether the plaintiff proves that the
officials of the first defendant bank have colluded
with defendant. Nos.4 and 5 and enabled the
mis-application of the cheque proceeds? - 30 - 12. Whether the plaintiff proves that the
plaintiff had to raise the loan of Rs.3 crores as a
result of the serious irregularities committed by
the first defendant? 13. Whether the defendant No.3 proves
that the ware-house goods were got cleared
through fake and forged challans? 14. Whether the defendant No.3 proves
that the demand was in accordance with the
provision of Sec.28(9) and Sec.72 of the Customs
Act, 1972? 15. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to get
Rs.3,88,47,186.51 Ps refunded from the
defendants 2 and 3 together with interest at 20%
per annum from the date of payment till
realization? 16. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for
Rs.2,95,56,367/- being the interest on
Rs.3,88,47,186.51 ps from the date of payment of
duty for the second time till the date of suit from
defendants 2 and 3? 17. If the claim of the plaintiff were to be
not held against defendant Nos.2 and 3. Whether
the plaintiff proves that the first defendant is
liable to pay Rs.3,88,47,186.51 Ps and
Rs.2,95,56,367/- being the interest from the date
of payment of duty till the filing of the suit? - 31 - 18. Whether the plaintiff proves that
defendant Nos.4 and 5 are liable to pay
Rs.6,84,03,353.51 with court costs and interest
at 20% per annum on Rs.6,84,03,553.51 from the
date of suit till realization? 19. Whether the plaintiff proves that the
liability of the defendants 1 to 5 are joint and
several in respect of its claim? 20. To what relief and decree the parties
are entitled for? Additional Issues: - 32 - 6. Whether the court has no jurisdiction
 to try this suit in view of Sec.27 sub clause 3 of
 the customs Act? 26. The plaintiff has examined five witnesses,

one witness was examined on behalf of the defendant

No.1 - Bank. The officer of the Customs Department

was examined as a witness by the defendant Nos.2 and 3. 27. On appreciation of oral and documentary

evidence, the Trial Court dismissed the suit with costs

to defendant No.1 only. Being aggrieved, the plaintiff

has preferred the present appeal. 28. Learned counsel for the plaintiff argued that

in the ordinary course of its business, the plaintiff used

to import several consignments which would be released

to the plaintiff by the defendant No.3 only upon

payment of customs duty. Such payments towards

customs duty would sometimes be paid by the plaintiff

at the port in Chennai and the goods would be released. - 33 - Often the plaintiff would request the defendant No.3 to

permit to store the consignments in a bonded

warehouse in Bengaluru, which would come under the

control of the defendant No.3 and when the plaintiff

required the goods, it would pay the duty and get the

goods released, the plaintiff would issue cross cheques

drawn in favour of "Yourselves-037 Customs" along with

TR-6 challans in quadruplicate and submit them to the

defendant No.1 - Bank. The bank would endorse

payment of the duty on the TR-6 challans and return

the duplicate on the triplicate copies of the challans to

the plaintiff. The remaining TR-6 challans retained by

the bank would be sent to the defendant No.3 at the

warehouse. On presenting the endorsed challans to the

defendant No.3, on verification the goods would be

released to the plaintiff. The defendant No.1 - Bank in

collusion with the defendant Nos.4 and 5 committed

fraud violating the mandate of the crossed cheques and

the accompanying TR-6 challans. The defendant No.1 - - 34 - Bank has returned the endorsed TR-6 challans to the

plaintiff without crediting the cheque amount to the

customs account which made the plaintiff to believe

that the customs duty has been duly paid. The

misappropriation of funds came to light in October

1990. On voluntarily bringing to the notice of the

customs department, the plaintiff received demand

notices from the defendant No.3 alleging no requisite

customs duty was paid in getting the goods released

from the bonded warehouse. The plaintiff having no

choice paid the amount to the customs department as

demanded under protest after taking a loan from the

defendant No.1 - Bank, which has been subsequently

repaid within a short period. The Trial Court has taken

the bank's defence at face value without making enquiry

into the fraud alleged by the plaintiff. Though twenty

issues and six additional issues were framed, the

relevant issue Nos.10 and 11 regarding the collusion

has been decided against the plaintiff without even - 35 - examining the bank's action in proceeding with the

crossed cheques contrary to the mandate set out in the

cheques. Eventually the Trial Court has dismissed the

suit on the ground that it is barred by limitation and

that against the respondent Nos.2 and 3, the suit is not

maintainable. The learned counsel argued that the

relevant provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Act,

1881 governing the crossed cheques have not been

appreciated by the Trial Court. 29. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submitted

that the bank is the designated agent of the customs;

the bank performs agency functions and the

acknowledgment of receipt of customs duty issued by

the bank as the effect of binding the principal i.e.,

customs in discharging the liability towards the

customs duty. The payment to the bank by crossed

cheques drawn as "Yourselves-037 Customs" 30. The gross negligence of the bank both in

relation to its constituent, the plaintiff and its principal - customs department being apparent, the plaintiff

should not be victimized. The customs department's

demand and coercive collection of Rs.3,88,46,186-51 is

without authority in law, inasmuch as, the duty payable

has been fully paid by the plaintiff crediting the same to

the defendant No.1 - Bank which was the designated

bank in terms of the circular instructions issued by the

customs department. The Trial Court grossly erred in

holding that the defendant No.1 - Bank was not an

agent of the customs department ignoring the effect of

the Notification dated 22.06.1990 (Ex.P1) issued by the

department whereby Vijaya Bank and State Bank of

India were referred to as sub-agents of the defendant

No.1 - Canara Bank. The relationship between the

bank and the customs department was that of the

principal and agent by virtue of the public notification.

The Trial Court erroneously held that the relationship of - 38 - the plaintiff with the bank is that of the principal and

agent. The Trial Court failed to appreciate that the

amount mentioned in the crossed cheque with the

mandate "Yourselves-037 Customs" though has been

debited from the account of the plaintiff, the demand

draft challans said to have been issued relating to the

said cheques were contrary to the mandate in the

cheques in question. The pass sheets issued by the

bank would clearly demonstrate that the plaintiff's

account was debited with the cheque amount and does

not reflect debit of any draft charges and commission. 31. Learned counsel has referred to the following

decisions:- - 39 - 32. Learned Senior counsel appearing for

defendant No.1 submitted that the evidence on record

reveals use of TR-6 challans and Demand Drafts

obtained by the plaintiff from the bank. The TR-6

challans will be issued by the bank on the very day of

submission of the cheques and if Demand Drafts are

issued on presentation of the cheques by the company,

question of issuing TR-6 challans will not arise as

admitted by PW.1. Further he had admitted that the

goods had been ex-bonded by the company in respect of

TR-6 challans got marked by the plaintiff. Demand

Drafts prepared from the bank were rooted through two

shipping agents who were the clearing agents of the

plaintiff. PW.2 has stated that he does not even know

whether the Demand Drafts were presented by these

shipping agents on behalf of the plaintiff though he

admits that the plaintiff has paid customs duty at

Madras through the Demand Drafts procured by bank

only. The evidence on record would indicate that TR-6 - 40 - challans and the Demand Drafts procured by the

employees of the plaintiff and the bank have been

utilized for release of goods of the plaintiff - company

from the customs authorities. Bank cannot be held

responsible, if there has been any misuse of TR-6

challans and Demand Drafts by the officials of the

plaintiff. The Trial Court on analyzing the evidence has

rightly come to the conclusion that the defendant Nos.4

and 5 were authorized to operate the accounts of the

plaintiff and to deal with the funds of the plaintiff and

negotiated the cheques, instruments issued by the

plaintiff, the plaintiff had full knowledge of the same

and is therefore estopped from pleading lack of

authority. The very learned judge who delivered the

judgment has recorded the evidence as well. The

analysis of evidence by the Trial Court has to be given

due weightage. On meticulous examination, the Trial

Court has rightly come to the conclusion that the goods

were debonded on the basis of fake TR-6 challans and - 41 - there has been no double payment of customs duty as

alleged by the plaintiff. The TR-6 challans, on the basis

of which the goods were debonded were forged, the

same has been admitted by PW.3, Managing Director of

the plaintiff. The overwhelming evidence on record

establishes that the TR-6 challans in question were

forged. The allegation of the plaintiff that the bank was

negligent and there has been collusion between the

officials of the bank and the defendant Nos.4 and 5 are

false. The Trial Court though observed that the

defendant Nos.4 and 5 would be liable for the suit

claim, but the same being barred by limitation, held

that the suit cannot be decreed even against them. The

judgment and decree of the Trial Court based on the

material evidence is unexceptionable. 33. The learned Senior counsel argued that the

interpolations in the cheques alleged by the plaintiff is

baseless. No one can make out whether the second line - 42 - which the plaintiff now contends is a manipulation was

in fact a manipulation or not. Defendant Nos.4 and 5

were only persons interacting with the bank with regard

to the remittance of money regarding customs duty,

collection of TR-6 challans and Demand Drafts and that

was spread over for seven years. Even according to the

plaintiff's witnesses, plaintiff used to monitor bank

transactions everyday to keep perfect track of financial

position of the company. When that is so, it is

preposterous to suggest that the defendant Nos.4 and 5

did not have authority to interact with the bank officials

to collect TR-6 challans and Demand Drafts etc., If the

employees of the plaintiff have misused the TR-6

challans and Demand Drafts bank cannot be made

responsible or liable. The blame cannot be put on the

bank. 34. Learned Senior counsel submitted that the

Trial Court has noticed that for one month Sri. K.B. - 43 - Ballulaya who was the Chief Finance Controller of the

plaintiff - company went to the bank with the photocopy

machine and collected photo copies of documents. The

deposition of the Managing Director of the plaintiff is

that the goods were debonded on the fake TR-6

challans. 35. The Trial Court has rightly come to the

conclusion that the bank was not an agent or collector

of customs as alleged by the plaintiff; the defendant

Nos.4 and 5 were persons authorized to operate the

accounts of the plaintiff with the bank and to instruct

the bank to deal with the funds of the plaintiff. 36. The plaintiff sought for waiver of Rs.955.26

lakhs of principal amount and waiver of Rs.703 lakhs

unapplied interest for the period 01.10.2002 to

31.03.2007 and also further interest and to absorb all

the legal and other expenses accepting OTS of only

Rs.318.42 lakhs. Accordingly, the bank agreed to that - 44 - proposal subject to the plaintiff withdrawing the suit

filed against the bank. Giving such concession, the

bank assigned the debt in favour Pegasus Asset

Reconstructions Pvt. Ltd.,. The plaintiff again

approached the bank and sought for extension of time

for settlement of debt which had been assigned to

Pigasus Asset Reconstructions Pvt. Ltd., which the bank

agreed subject to the plaintiff agreeing to withdraw the

claim made by the plaintiff against the bank. On the

basis of the concession given by the bank, the plaintiff

filed a memo dated 29.11.2007 before this Court clearly

stating that they have expressly waived their right to

claim any amount from the bank even if the amount is

decreed against the bank. Under the said

circumstances, the plaintiff cannot wriggle out of the

memo which has been filed based on the agreement

between the parties and enormous concession granted

by the bank running in excess of over Rs.16 crores. It

was submitted that the judgment and decree of the Trial - 45 - Court being justifiable in all respects, the same requires

to be confirmed. 37. Learned counsel for the defendant No.3 -

Customs Department submitted that defendant No.1 -

Bank has acted as a facilitator to collect the customs

duty from the plaintiff and to remit the same to the

department, bank has not acted as an agent. The

plaintiff has cleared the imported goods from the

bonded warehouse submitting the fake TR-6 challans

without paying the customs duty. During the course of

reconciliation of customs duty receipts for the month of

August, 1989 by the Pay and Accounts Officer, Central

Excise and Customs, Bengaluru, it was noticed that a

credit for Rs.6,64,135/- purported to have been paid by

the plaintiff on 24.08.1989 towards customs duty, had

not been accounted for and no quadruplicate copy of

the TR-6 challans have been received from the Bank. On

further investigation made, it was discovered that on the - 46 - strength of fake/forged TR-6 challans the plaintiff had

cleared the warehoused goods without payment of

import duty. Accordingly, demand was made vide

letters dated 14.09.1990, 01.10.1990, 30.10.1990,

06.11.1990 and 20.11.1990 for payment of duty

amounting to Rs.3,95,11,321-51 relating to the period

from July, 1986 to August, 1990 by issuing a show-

cause notice dated 18.04.1991. After considering the

reply filed by the plaintiff, order in original has been

passed on 15.02.2013 holding that the imported goods

are cleared from the bonded warehouse on the strength

of fake/forged TR-6 challans, the demand of customs

duty amounting to Rs.3,95,11,321-51 has been

confirmed which is justifiable in terms of proviso to Section 28(1) and Section 72 of the Customs Act, 1962.

Further notices were issued imposing interest of

Rs.83,79,935/- and penalty of Rs.3,95,11,321-51 on

the plaintiff, Rs.39,50,000/- on Sri. A.W. Akram and

Rs.7,90,000/- on Sri. M. Muralidaran under the - 47 - provisions of Section 112(a)(b)(ii) of the Customs Act,

1962. The said order has been challenged by the

plaintiff and the appeal is pending for adjudication.

Learned counsel submitted that A.W. Akram had

conceded the fraud committed by him. Plaintiff being

the employer of Sri. A.W. Akram and M. Muralidaran

who were involved in the committal of fraud, plaintiff is

entitled to discharge liability towards the customs duty.

Hence, the fraud wholly committed by the plaintiff being

proved, the Trial Court has rightly passed the impugned

judgment and decree holding that defendant No.1 -

Bank cannot be made liable to pay the demands of the

plaintiff. 38. Learned counsel indeed supported the

arguments of the learned Senior counsel appearing for

the defendant No.1 - Bank submitting that the

employees namely A.W. Akram and M. Muralidaran,

defendant Nos.4 and 5 respectively had presented the - 48 - cheques along with Demand Draft applications and

obtained the Demand Drafts mostly favouring Collector

of Customs, Bombay, Madras, Cochin, Calcutta etc.,

and submitted false TR-6 challans to the department

forging the Bank seals and officers' initials. It was

submitted that the department was informed by the

Collector of Customs, Madras that in respect of 33

Demand Drafts favouring Collector of Madras, the said

Demand Drafts were presented by two clearing agents

namely M/s South India Shipping Services and M/s.

United India Shipping Services and these Demand

Drafts had been utilized for payment of customs duty of

the plaintiff at Madras. Learned counsel further

submitted that even if the fraud committed on the

Exchequer is presumed to have not been proved, the

liability to make good the customs duty not paid

squarely lies on them and the plaintiff cannot escape

from the said liability. Learned counsel argued that in

terms of Section 147 of the Customs Act, 1962 the - 49 - liability arising out of the acts of their employees rests

with the plaintiff, the employer. Learned counsel further

submitted that the role of the bank is two fold; firstly as

the Banker of the plaintiff and secondly as the

Authorized Collection Agent of the Department. The

defendant No.1- Bank has played its role as the banker

of the plaintiff as they have completed the transaction of

issuing Demand Drafts as requested by their clients in

terms of the Demand Draft application accompanying

the cheque. The role of the bank as an authorized agent

of the customs department would have been relevant in

case a TR-6 challan was submitted along with the

cheque. In such case, on receiving the amount in their

account, bank was required to endorse the TR-6

challans and credit the amount to the account of the

department. Admittedly, no TR-6 challans were

submitted on behalf of the plaintiff, as such the role of

the defendant No.1 - Bank as the authorized collection

agent for the customs department was not initiated. - 50 - However, in terms of Section 147 of the Customs Act,

1962, the liability of the acts of the employees would

rests upon the employer. Under the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 the liability to discharge the

customs duty lies with the person chargeable with duty.

Thus, the plaintiff cannot seek for the relief of the

customs duty payment to be recovered from any person

other than themselves. The plaintiff in order to eschew

from the clutches of law has filed the suit more

particularly to overcome the punitive action initiated by

the department for playing fraud with the State

Exchequer. Accordingly, he seeks for dismissal of the

appeal. 39. Adverting to the arguments advanced by the

learned counsel for the parties, the points that would

arise for our consideration are:- collecting the revenue (customs duty)
 from the assessee - plaintiff and to
 credit the same to the Government
 Account of defendant No.3 in respect of
 143 crossed cheques transactions? 2. Whether the defendant No.1 - Bank
 acted against the mandate of cheques
 presented by the plaintiff? 3. Whether the demand of
 Rs.3,88,47,186-51 made by the
 defendant No.3 for getting the goods
 released by the plaintiff through fake
 and forged TR-6 challans was in
 accordance with the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 ? 4. Whether the suit is barred by
 limitation? Re. Point No.1: - 54 - the Canara Bank convenient to him and deposit
 revenues only in that branch. vi) Each assessee should obtain the Code number of
 the selected branch of the Canara Bank and
 Focal Point Bank from his respective Range
 Officers and should invariably note these Code
 numbers in the challans. vii) The detailed procedure for payment of dues and
 accounting etc. will be similar to one which is
 being followed presently and there will not be
 any change in the existing procedure as amended
 from time to time. viii) It may please be noted carefully that the customs
 revenues deposited in any bank other than the
 one selected them will not entitle them to get their
 goods cleared. The assessees may contact their respective
jurisdictional Assistant Collector (Customs) for any further
clarifications in this regard. The contents of this Public Notice
may please be brought to the notice of all your constituent
members. Sd/- DEPUTY COLLECTOR (CUSTOMS) - 55 - 41. A reading of this document Ex.P1(a) would

indicate that to simplify the banking arrangements for

collection of tax dues with twin objective of affording the

facility to the assessee to deposit money at a reasonable

level and also to ensure prompt credit of Government

revenues to the Government Account, the scheme of one

bank - one collectorate was introduced whereby the

Canara Bank - defendant No.1 was selected except in

the case of Aircorgo Complex, Bengaluru and

Mangaluru Customs House. Defendant No.1 - Bank as

Collectorate was authorized for collections of customs

duty. 42. In order to ascertain whether by virtue of

this public notice, Section 182 of the Indian Contract

Act, 1972 would be applicable to the action of the

defendant No.1 - Bank in collecting the revenue towards

payment of dues and accounting etc., it is beneficial to

refer to the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the - 56 - case of State of Mysore and another vs. Mysore

Spinning and Manufacturing Company Ltd., and

others reported in AIR 1958 SC 1002, wherein it has

been held that licenced export dealers under the Cotton

Textiles (Export Control) Order through whom export

was allowed were not termed as agencies, as it was only

the mode of exporting the manufactured goods as per

the control order. 43. In the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in

the case of UCO Bank vs. Hem Chandra Sarkar reported in AIR 1990 SC 1329, the Hon'ble Apex Court

has held that acts of collection of bills, remittance,

meeting expenses etc., and debiting the same to the

current account of the customs do not be construed in

the capacity of an agent of the customers. There was

neither fiduciary relationship between the parties nor

the bank was incharge of goods as trustee or agent. - 57 - 44. In the case of Rajeswari Mills Ltd., vs. The

State of Madras reported in AIR 1964 Madras 162, it

has been observed that an inference of agency should

not, however, be drawn from the subsistence of few

such rights or liabilities. It is observed that rights and

obligations are the legal incidence of relationship but

the same is not the resultant of such rights and

obligations. 45. In AIR 1959 Andhra Pradesh 352 in the

case of State of Andhra Pradesh and others vs.

Jayalakshmi Rice Mill Contractors Co. and others ,

it is observed that the relationship of an agency is a

contractual relationship. The mere fact that a person

employed to do an act for another does not make the

former an 'agent' of the 'latter'. Further the fact that the

agreement speaks of an agent is not conclusive evidence

of the relationship of principal and agent, for the same if

the parties may choose to give transaction cannot be the - 58 - same criteria. The question of agency is a mixed

question of law and fact. 46. In the light of these judgments if we analyze

the selection of defendant No.1 - Bank under the

scheme of one bank - one collectorate to collect the

revenue for Central Board of Excise and Customs and

even if any turnover commission is paid towards the

said services rendered by the bank, the same would not

establish the jural relationship of principal and agent

between the defendant Nos.3 and 1 as far as the said

collection of revenue is concerned. The functions of the

bank are governed by Indian Banking Companies Act,

1949 and the relative position of defendant No.1

depends upon the status of accounts of its customer at

any particular point of time. It is only an authority given

by the statutory body to a corporate body to collect the

duty or dues. No agreement of agency has been made

between the defendant Nos.1 and 3 to bring the - 59 - authority of the bank to collect revenue as an agent of

defendant No.3. 47. As submitted by the defendant No.3, the role

of defendant No.1 - Bank to consider it as a collection

agent would start only on TR-6 challans being

submitted by the assessee - plaintiff along with the

cheques. The role of the bank as an authorized

collection agent for the customs department has not

begun since admittedly no TR-6 challans were

submitted on behalf of the plaintiff along with the

cheques. The bank has played a role as the banker of

the plaintiff in issuing Demand Drafts on the

application submitted accompanying the cheques.

Unless the revenue collected from the assessee is

credited to the account of the Government revenue,

there is no payment made by the assessee towards the

customs duty payable to the revenue. Merely debiting

the amount from the account of the plaintiff in issuing - 60 - Demand Drafts on the instructions of the plaintiff's

employees defendant Nos.4 and 5, cannot be considered

to be the payment of customs duty liable to be paid by

the plaintiff - assessee. 48. Payment of duty or liability by the assessee -

plaintiff cannot be resisted on the premise that the

fraud has been played by its employees in collusion with

the bank officials or for whatever reasons. The public

revenue should not suffer on account of fraud said to

have been committed by the employees of the plaintiff.

Hence debiting from the account of the plaintiff,

honouring the cheques/crossed cheques presented by

the plaintiff cannot be considered as discharge of

duty/liability unless it is credited to the account of the

Government revenue. 49. Mere stray admission of DW.2 - G.

Sathyanarayana that the bank has acted as an agent of

customs and receives commission would not establish - 61 - the jural relationship of principal and agent in the light

of Ex.P1(a) and the scheme under which the defendant

No.1 - Bank was selected to collect revenue as one bank - one collectorate. 50. As per Ex.P1(a), clause (vii) the procedure for

payment of dues and accounting etc., will be the

existing procedure as amended from time to time. As

per Ex.D439, Part 'B', Scheme for Collection of Central

Excise, Customs and Other Indirect Taxes, Procedure

for making payment of Tax is prescribed. Clause 4 of

Ex.D439 contemplates the procedure for making

payment of tax which reads thus:- 51. Memorandum of Instructions issued by the

Reserve Bank of India endorsed with Ex.D439, in clause

12 provides that the assessee will pay the revenue with

a challans in form TR-6. He should present separate

challans for payment of dues under each major head of

account. The challan will be in quadruplicate in all - 63 - cases of payment of revenue. The challans should be

correctly filled in all respects so that revenue payable by

him is correctly credited to the proper major and minor

head of account. The receiving bank will return the

duplicate and triplicate copies of the receipted challan

to the assessees who on receipt of the challans, will

record the particulars of the challan such as the name

of the bank, the branch in which the amount has been

paid, challan number and date, amount etc., on all

copies of the relevant Departmental Assessment

Document. He will then attach the duplicate copy of the

receipted challan to the copy of the Department

Assessment Document meant for the Range Officer. The

Range Officer will then allow clearance after satisfying

that the duty amount has been paid. 52. It is evident from the record that the crossed

cheques were accompanied with the Demand Draft

challans not with the TR-6 challans which is sine-quo- - 64 - non for the payment of customs duty. Thus, the

defendant No.1 - Bank has not initiated its function as

Collectorate. Hence, it cannot be held that it acted as

an agent of customs department. Re. Point No.2: 53. The allegation of fraud is in respect of 143

cheques. As per Annexure - 1A, 96 cheques were issued

by the plaintiff drawn in favour of 'Yourselves-037

customs', 35 cheques as per Annexure - 1B drawn in

favour of 'Yourselves D.D. payable Collector of

Customs', 12 cheques were issued by the plaintiff as per

Annexure - 1C drawn in favour of 'Yourselves'.

Admittedly, all these cheques were crossed. In order to

analyze the effect of crossed cheque it would be

beneficial to refer to Sections 123 to 131 of the

Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. ('Act, 1881' for short) - 65 - 54. Section 123 of the Act, 1881, reads thus:- 55. Section 123 of the Act, 1881 deals with the

general crossing of cheque the implications of general

crossing is that any other banker must submit such a

cheque to the paying banker/account, payment can

only be made by bank account and should not be made

at the counter. The banker has to credit the cheque

amount to either the owner of the cheque or the payees

account. 56. Section 124 of the Act, 1881 defines special

crossing and the same reads thus:- name of a banker, either with or without the
 words "not negotiable", that addition shall be
 deemed a crossing, and the cheque shall be
 deemed to be crossed specially, and to be crossed
 to that banker. 57. In special crossing, the banker's name

requires to be added across the face of the cheque.

Payment can only be made through bank of the

crossing. Specially crossed cheques are not convertible

into general crossing. 58. In order to ensure that a cheque will not be

encashed by anyone except the rightful owner of the

cheque, the words "account payee" are used. 59. Section 126 of the Act, 1881 runs thus:- Payment of cheque crossed specially.-
 Where a cheque is crossed specially, the banker
 on whom it is drawn shall not pay it otherwise - 67 - than to the banker to whom it is crossed, or his
 agent for collection. 60. In terms of Section 126 of the Act, 1881 the

paying banker is obligated to make the payment as per

the mandate of the crossing on a crossed cheque. The

paying banker is not authorized to deviate the proceeds

of a crossed cheque to the payer or the cheque holder.

The failure by the paying banker to pay a crossed

cheque shall be punishable by liability as per Section

129 of the Act, 1881. 61. Section 129 of the Act, 1881 reads thus:- - 68 - 62. Thus, it is not only obligatory but mandatory

on the part of the bank to act on the mandate of the

crossed cheque. A banker is not entitled to issue a

Demand Draft by ignoring the mandate of the cheque. It

is not legally justified to pay the payee in cash over the

counter or in any other manner, it has to be paid to the

banker/account to which it is crossed. If the paying

banker fails to make the payment in accordance with

the mandate of the cheque, such payment not made in

accordance with the instructions of the drawer is not

the payment made in the eye of law. The banker is

prevented from debiting the cheque amount on its

customers account, as such payment is considered to

have been made to the wrong person if it is deviated by

issuing the Demand Drafts. Indeed, the paying banker

is accountable to the true owner of the cheque.

Collecting banker has a duty to credit the money into

the account of payee indicated in the crossed cheque

and into no other account. Admittedly, 96 cheques - 69 - drawn in favour of 'Yourselves-037 customs' and 35

cheques drawn in favour of 'Yourselves D.D. payable

Collector of Customs' are crossed cheques. Defendant

Nos.4 and 5 who were acting as the authorized

representatives of the plaintiff - assessee have

presented the said crossed cheques along with Demand

Draft challans and obtained the Demand Draft challans

in favour of Customs Madras, Customs Calcutta,

Customs Mumbai and in the name of two shipping

companies namely, South India Shipping Services and

United India Shipping Services who were the clearing

agents of plaintiff company at Madras. Issuance of

Demand Drafts against crossed cheques drawn in

favour of particular account is against the mandate of

the cheque and the instructions of the plaintiff. As

such, the defendant No.1 - Bank has violated the

mandate of the cheque which is against the provisions

of the Act. Thus, the banker - defendant No.1 shall be

liable to the plaintiff for any loss if may sustain owing to - 70 - the cheque having been so paid by issuing demand

drafts. At this juncture, it is apt to refer to the Hon'ble

Apex Court judgment rendered in Canara Bank , supra,

in paragraphs 24, 42 and 44, it is held thus:- 63. PW.1, the purchase officer of the plaintiff has

stated that South India Shipping Services and United

India Shipping Services were the clearing agents of the

plaintiff at Madras. The plaintiff has the details of

transactions of these two clearing agents whose services

were taken to import goods at Madras. The plaintiff was

taking Demand Drafts from the bank drawn on

Collector/Assistant Collector of Customs, Madras. The

said witness has admitted that he is oblivious of the - 74 - proceeds relating to 12 cheques and only account

department person would be able to speak about it. He

has admitted that Demand Drafts have been collected

against 35 cheques and posted from the company to the

Collector of Customs, Madras. Further he has admitted

that some of the representatives of the plaintiff company

had obtained Demand Drafts from Canara Bank against

cheques presented for payment of customs duty

favouring 'Yourselves-037 customs'. The testimony of

PW.1 would indicate that he was the person who was

paying the customs duty at Madras and getting the

goods released from Madras port. Demand Drafts were

obtained from the bank to pay customs duty at Madras.

Many a times he had accompanied along with defendant

No.4 to collect Demand Drafts from the bank. After

Demand Drafts are issued on presentation of cheques

there is no question of issuing TR-6 challans. PW.1 was

responsible for correctness of TR-6 challans before and

after preparation of the same which used to be signed - 75 - by himself and by Mr. Akram. He was in possession of

the office seal of the company. Defendant No.4 and

PW.1 used to put the company's seal on the TR-6

challans to authenticate that the same is originated

from the company. It has been admitted that Demand

Drafts were purchased by him for about 50 or 60 times

from the bank and whenever he purchased Demand

Drafts from the bank he used to present Demand Draft

challans. The counterfoils of Demand Draft challans

used to be kept by the PW.1 and subsequently

submitted before the accounts department. He

categorically admits that the goods have been

debounded by the company in respect of TR-6 challans

which have been marked by the plaintiff. 64. PW.1 in his cross-examination has admitted

that 35 cheques issued were in favour of "Collector of

Customs, Madras", 12 cheques were mentioned with

words "Yourselves". It is beneficial to extract deposition - 76 - of PW.1. The relevant paragraph Nos.181, 186 and 187

are extracted as under:- and 35 cheques "Yourselves (DD favourable
collector of customs" had been issued. The 35
cheques issued were in favour of "Collector of
customs, Madras." It is true that 12 cheques
were mentioned with words "Yourselves". The
above 143 cheques referred to by me in
paragraph 185 of my deposition is inclusive
of 35 cheques and 12 cheques. I have not
collected the DDs in respect of 35 cheques
bearing "Yourselves ("DD favourable collector
of customs-Madras)". I cannot tell as to who
collected the DDs in respect of these 35
cheques. The DDs obtained as against these
35 cheques had been posted from the co., to
the collector of customs, Madras. In the
normal course either the controller of chief - 78 - controller of finance of the co., could have
 looked into the DDs obtained as against 35
 cheques. 187. We have not obtained any DD in
 respect of the 12 cheques bearing
 "Yourselves" only. The 12 cheques drawn
 with the words "Yourselves" had not been
 preceded by any requisition by the co., to the
 bank. Co., had not given instructions
 subsequent to the presentation of these 12
 cheques for appropriation of the amounts
 mentioned in these cheques in any manner. I
 do not have any idea as to whether the bank
 has held the amount in respect of these 12
 cheques still in suspense. I cannot say as to
 what happened to the proceeds of these 12
 cheques. Only the accounts Dept. persons will
 be in a position to speak about the proceeds
 of these 12 cheques." 65. PW.2 is the Senior Accounts Officer, who has

stated that the plaintiff used a machine called 'cheque

writer' to type all the cheques pertaining to the

transaction and it is his presumption that addition of - 79 - words found in the cheques has been typed with a

similar 'cheque writer' from outside and he does not

have any proper basis to say that additions were made

with separate 'cheque writer' outside. The said witness

categorically admits that South India Shipping Services

and United India Shipping Services were the agents of

the plaintiff and at a later stage of investigation, plaintiff

became aware of the Demand Drafts procured from the

bank were rooted through these two shipping agencies

and does not even know whether Demand Drafts were

presented by the shipping agencies to the customs

authorities on behalf of the plaintiff or not. 28 Demand

Draft challans show the signature of PW.2 and all of

them have been affixed with the company's seal. His

statement that one Subramanya was the Purchase

Officer and the Demand Draft Challans whether were in

the handwriting of Subramanya is not identifiable by

him, though not with clarity but unequivocally he

admits that 60% of the challans are in the handwriting - 80 - of A.W.Akram - defendant No.4. While signing 28

Demand Draft challans he has acted within his

authority. 66. PW.4 is the General Manager of BPL,

associate company of the plaintiff. He states that

Demand Drafts procured from the bank have been used

for clearance of several types of imported cars,

motorcycles, V.C.Rs., Audio Systems etc., which had

been cleared in the name of Basheer Ahamed, Mahamed

Pasha, Akram and others. Plaintiff - company was

monitoring the bank transactions everyday to keep

track of the financial position of the company and the

company has been receiving the statements from the

bank regularly. For payment of customs duty, TR-6

challans have to be furnished to the bank and if TR-6

challans are not presented there cannot be any payment

of customs duty. By the end of September 1990, he - 81 - came to know about the total amount of

misappropriation of Rs.390 lakhs. 67. As per the interpolations in respect of 35

cheques, Balakrishna Nayri - PW.2 has stated that any

additions found in the cheques are not that of the

'cheque writer' of the plaintiff. However, he admits that

he does not have any proper basis to say that the

additions in the cheques were made with separate

'cheque writer' outside. It is apparent from the perusal

of the cheques that one cannot make out whether

second line which the plaintiff now contend is a

manipulation was in fact a manipulation or not. Even

according to the plaintiff witnesses, plaintiff used to

monitor bank transactions everyday to keep perfect

track of financial position of the company with the bank

and the company was receiving statements from the

bank regularly. The testimony of these witnesses were

relied upon by the defendant No.1 - bank to contend - 82 - that the allegation against the bank inasmuch as the

officials have issued Demand Drafts against the

mandate of the bank is not justifiable. Even misuse of

authority by the defendant Nos.4 and 5 would not any

way assist the defendant No.1 - bank to wriggle out

from the clutches of law in issuing Demand Drafts

against the mandate of the cheques though Demand

Draft challans were presented on behalf of plaintiff

company against the crossed cheques.

Re. Point No.3. 68. Section 71 of the Customs Act, 1962

contemplates that no goods would be debonded or

removed from a warehouse without following the

procedure prescribed therein. In terms of clause 1(a) of Section 72 if any warehouse goods are removed from a

warehouse in contravention of Section 71 , the proper

officer may demand, and the owner of such goods shall

forthwith pay, the full amount of duty chargeable on

account of such goods together with all penalties, rent, - 83 - interest and other charges payable in respect of such

goods. 69. Section 27 of the Customs Act, 1962

provides for claim of refund of duty. No refund was

sought by the plaintiff if paid in excess. Section 28 of

the Customs Act, 1962 empowers the authorities to

issue notice for payment of duties, interest etc., when

any duty has not been levied or has been short-levied or

erroneously refunded, or when any interest payable has

not been paid, part-paid or erroneously refunded, the

proper officer may serve a notice on the person

chargeable with the duty or interest to pay the amount. 70. The demand has been made by the customs

authority in view of the imported goods having been

removed from the warehouse on the basis of fake TR-6

challans. The plaintiff indeed has deposited the demand

of Rs.3,88,47,186-51 though under protest admitting

the fraud said to have been played by its employees - 84 - defendant Nos.4 and 5. If any fraud is played by the

employees, the customs duty which is liable to be paid

by the plaintiff - assessee not being credited to the

account of the revenue, the demand has been rightly

made. Further on the notice issued by the customs

authorities calling upon the plaintiff to make the

payment towards interest and penalty etc., the plaintiff

had preferred W.P.No.14092/1991 before this Court

and the same came to be disposed of on 13.03.1998

observing that the civil suit has been already filed by

the plaintiff in respect of the same issue where it has to

be determined as to whether the plaintiff was at fault or

not. Accordingly, writ petition came to be disposed of

directing the Civil Court to dispose of the suit in

O.S.No.6303/1993 within a period of six months and till

then further proceedings in pursuance of the show-

cause notice dated 18.04.1991 shall remain stayed. - 85 - 71. The records would reveal that the fraud said

to have been played by the defendant Nos.4 and 5 was

during the period 1986 to 1990. On noticing the same,

the department has issued the notice calling upon the

plaintiff to make good the duty liable to be paid by him

and the same has been paid. The statements of A.W.

Akram recorded by the customs authorities would

indicate the modus operandi which was in the personal

knowledge of Sri. A.W.Akram. The fraud occurred

during October 1986 to June 1990; the show-cause

notice came to be issued on 18.04.1991; the civil suit

was filed in the year 1993. The statements of A.W.

Akram would disclose that to obtain the Demand Draft

he would fill in a Demand Draft challan and the

Demand Drafts were collected in favour of Collector of

Customs, Madras/Bombay/Cochin; he would affix on

two copies of TR-6 challans the rubber stamp, which he

had with him, forged the signature of the bank official

and submitted to customs division along with the - 86 - exbond bill of entry. The fake challans would not find

any entry in the duty paid register. The Demand Drafts

obtained from the bank would be given to one M. Basha

and one L.A.K. Aslam who would utilize the same for

purchasing goods from customs department in

auctions. For that he would be paid 75% of the Demand

Draft amount in cash which he would utilize for himself.

The said statements would certainly establish the fraud

played by the employee defendant No.4. But the same

does not exonerate the employer from its liability. 72. The liability to discharge duty was on the

plaintiff chargeable with duty. The fraudulent

transaction numbering 143 occurred during the period

of October 1986 to June 1990 for about four years

during which period the company has finalized its

annual accounts. Some of the Demand Drafts

purchased in the name of plaintiff from Canara Bank

out of the amount purported to have been paid towards - 87 - customs duty at Bengaluru had been utilized for

payment of customs duty on their account at Madras by

their shipping agents where they are the beneficiaries of

the fraud committed in certain cases. 73. K.B. Ballulaya, the Controller of Finance in

his letter dated 30.08.1990 Ex.P220 has categorically

admitted that A.W. Akram was an employee of the

company at the relevant point of time. However, the

action on his part was of his own will and did not have

the concurrence or approval in any manner of either his

superiors of the company. Similarly, it is not disputed

that this defendant No.5 was also an employee of the

company during the relevant period. 74. Section 238 of the Indian Contract Act,

contemplates that if any misrepresentation is made or

fraud committed by agents, acting in the course of their

business for their principal, have the same effect of

agreements made by the agents as if such - 88 - misrepresentations or fraud had been made or

committed by the principals but misrepresentation

made or frauds committed by agents. The

misrepresentation and frauds alleged to have been

committed by the employees during the course of their

action while working on behalf of the company, a

principal, it is within their authority while acting upon

and therefore such acts binds the principal employer.

Hence, the plaintiff cannot contend that there was no

concurrence for the acts committed by the defendant

Nos.4 and 5. The plaintiff has instituted the suit only

after the show-cause notice dated 18.04.1991 was

served on the plaintiff calling upon to pay interest,

penalty etc., exercising the power under Section 28 of

the Customs Act, 1962. Admittedly, the alleged

fraud committed by its employees was discovered by the

plaintiff during the last week of August 1990. Master is

liable for the fraud committed by the employees whether

it was for the benefit of Master or not as held by the - 89 - Hon'ble Apex Court in State Bank of India vs Smt.

Shyama Devi reported in AIR 1978 SC 1263. 75. It has been argued that the said

misrepresentations and fraud played by the employees

of the company - defendant Nos.4 and 5 in collusion

with the officials of the bank was informed to the

customs department voluntarily by the plaintiff after

detecting the same. Pursuant to such discovery K.B.

Ballulaya, Controller of Finance of the company has

visited the defendant No.1 - bank along with a

photocopier machine and has taken photocopies of all

the cheques, Demand Drafts challans etc., After

conducting a thorough investigation discovered that

there was alleged fraud committed by its employees in

collusion with bank officials during the period August

1986 to October 1990 and a complaint was lodged to

the P.S. Cubbon Park on 26.09.1990 as Ex.D31. In the

said complaint, the allegations were made only against - 90 - defendant Nos.4 and 5, not against the defendant No.1 -

bank. On issuing the demand notice by the defendant

No.3, a loan to an extent of Rs.3 crores has been raised

by the plaintiff from the same defendant No.1 - bank to

discharge the liability and the same is said to have been

repaid. Even during that period no action was initiated

against defendant No.1 - Bank. 76. Plaintiff has to own the responsibility for the

fraud committed by its employees. Indisputedly, no

amount was credited to the Government revenue

towards the customs duty liable to be paid on the

imported goods which were cleared on the basis of fake

TR-6 challans. The customs duty paid on demand

made by the department, at any stretch of imagination

cannot be held to be double payment. No person can

siphon off the Government money and enrich

themselves causing loss to the revenue. Indisputably,

no credit is made to the account of the Government - 91 - revenue. The primary liability is with the plaintiff -

company to discharge the same. For breach of mandate

of the cheque, Bank is liable to the plaintiff - company

but not to the revenue as the said violation relates the

function of the banker with the plaintiff and the banker

is liable to the plaintiff - company for any loss sustained

owing to the Demand Drafts issued in violation of the

mandate of the cheques. Hence, the demand made by

the customs department to the tune of Rs.3,88,47,186-

51 is legal. Plaintiff is not entitled to any refund from

the defendant Nos.2 and 3. 77. Paragraph No.25 of the plaint would disclose

that the cause of action arose on 14.09.1990,

01.10.1990, 30.10.1990, 06.11.1990 and 20.11.1990

when defendant No.3 served notices of demand for

payment of duty which according to plaintiff had

already been paid and between 09.10.1990 and - 92 - 14.12.1990 when plaintiff was coerced actually to make

payment in respect of the said notices. 78. It is an undisputed fact that the defendant

Nos.4 and 5 and occasionally PW.1 - Ravindranath used

to interact with the bank. They were the face of the

plaintiff who were transacting on behalf of the plaintiff -

bank. That as admitted by PW.4, the plaintiff used to

monitor the bank transaction everyday. It is an

admitted fact that defendant Nos.4 and 5 were

transacting bringing cheques as well as TR-6 challans

and also Demand Draft challans and after encashment

of the cheques, used to take copies of TR-6 challans

duly attested by the bank and the Demand Drafts as the

case may be. If it is to be held that defendant Nos.4 and

5 had no authority, the Demand Draft challans

presented by the defendant Nos.4 and 5 in all cases also

would become without authority, but the same is not

the case of the plaintiff. Such question of authority is - 93 - raised only regarding 143 cheques where the committal

of fraud has been alleged. Authority of the defendant

Nos.4 and 5 as the employees of the plaintiff would be

uniform relating to all transactions. If such authority is

accepted by the plaintiff company regarding other

transactions, the same cannot be gainsaid only as far as

143 cheques are concerned. Hence, the finding of the

Trial Court that defendant Nos.4 and 5 were authorized

to operate the accounts of the plaintiff or to instruct or

deal with the funds of the plaintiff or to negotiate

cheques or instruments issued by the plaintiff cannot

be faulted with. 79. Learned Senior Counsel for the defendant

No.1 - bank has argued that the bank agreed to the

proposal of the plaintiff as per its letter dated

26.03.2007 subject to the plaintiff withdrawing the suit

filed against the bank. Giving such concessions, the

bank assigned the debt in favour of M/s. Pegasus Asset - 94 - Reconstructions Pvt. Ltd., In view of the agreement

between the plaintiff and bank, and the letter dated

04.09.2007 of the plaintiff giving an undertaking that in

case of any liability to the bank at the time of disposal of

the suit which is pending before this Court in present

RFA, the same will not be recovered from the bank in

view of the settlement and further in view of the memo

filed dated 29.11.2007 before this Court stating that the

plaintiff has expressly waived their right to claim any

amount from the bank even if the amount is decreed

against the bank, the plaintiff is estopped from claiming

any relief against the bank cannot be countenanced.

Any inter-se settlement between the plaintiff - company

and the defendant No.1 - bank and the memo filed by

the plaintiff - company before this Court would not

preclude the Court from arriving at a conclusion on

merits of the case. As could be seen, the purpose of

filing this suit, O.S.No.6303/1993 is to avoid the legal - 95 - actions initiated by the customs department under Section 28 of the Customs Act, 1962. 80. Any settlement between the parties to defeat

the revenue if accepted, the Exchequer would suffer. In

the whole process, it would be a premium on

misrepresentation. Hence, we are rejecting the memo

dated 29.11.2007 filed by the plaintiff - Company which

indeed establishes the intention of the plaintiff to

defraud the revenue. Thus, it is manifestly clear that

the plaintiff has filed the present suit only to get away

from the punitive action initiated by the customs

department. An order has been passed on 31.01.2013

by the department confirming the demand of customs

duty amounting to Rs.3,95,11,326-51 and imposing

penalty and interest on the plaintiff amounting to

Rs.3,95,11,326-51 and Rs.83,79,935/- respectively,

against which an Appeal No.26539/2013 has been filed

by the plaintiff under Section 129A(i) of the Customs - 96 - Act, 1962 and the same is pending consideration before

the Appellate Authority. 81. Learned counsel has referred to the

judgment of the Criminal Court passed in

C.C.No.8033/1999 dated 18.12.2007 whereby

defendant No.5 has been acquitted, on benefit of doubt

whereas the case against defendant No.4 is abated since

he was reported dead. The same would not come to the

assistance of the plaintiff to eschew from the liability

against the department. Moreover, the suit has been

dismissed against defendant No.5. Re. Point No.4 82. Section 17 of the Limitation Act, 1963

postulates that where, in the case of any suit or

application for which a period of limitation is prescribed

by this Act, the suit or application is based upon the

fraud of the defendant or respondent or his agent, the

period of limitation shall not begin to run until the - 97 - plaintiff or applicant has discovered the fraud or the

mistake or could, with reasonable diligence, have

discovered it. 83. A reading of this provision makes it clear

that the cause of action would arise only when the

victim realises the factum of fraud perpetrated or at a

point when the victim could have with reasonable

diligence learnt or become aware of the hoax practiced

as held by this court in Babulal Vaktaji Shah Vs.

Chandabai (RSA No.488/1978 dated 01.07.1988).

Thus, it is clear that period of limitation starts from the

time when the fraud first noticed by the person affected

thereby. The suit has to be filed within three years from

the date of knowledge of the fraud. 84. PW.1 has admitted in the cross-examination

as under: 85. PW.2 has admitted that the discrepancies

were found in August, 1990 by the plaintiff-company

pursuant to which a letter was written to the defendant

No.1 - Bank requesting for accommodating

Sri. Ballulaya to verify the bank challans, cheques and

scrolls. 86. The evidence of PW4 would be apt to quote

and the relevant paras read thus: 87. Ex.P.313 is the police complaint lodged on

24.08.1990 in Crime No.267/1990. Mr. Ballulaya,

General Manager of plaintiff-company lodged complaint

on 26.09.1990. Suit was filed on 20.10.1993 after a

lapse of three years. Though fraud vitiates everything,

starting point for limitation is the date from which the

plaintiff has knowledge of the fraud. In terms of Section

17 of the Limitation Act, 1963, the suit is barred by

limitation. 88. In Upendra Nath Mitra's Law of Limitation

and Prescription (MLJ Publication), 8th Edition, Volume - 1, page 287, it is observed thus: section. Under the Act of 1908, Sec. 18 had
prescribed that where the cause of action of the
right to sue was concealed from the plaintiff by
the fraud of the defendant, or where the title on
which the right to sue was founded was so
concealed time ran from the date when the fraud
first became known to the plaintiff and not from
the time when, with reasonable diligence, it
might have been first known or discovered. In
that respect the Indian law had differed from Sec. 26 of 3 & 4 Will. IV, c. 27, (See now Sec.26
of the United Kingdom Limitation Act 1939)
which made time run from the date when the
fraud was or with reasonable diligence might
have been first known or discovered. But
although want of diligence on the part of the
plaintiff did not necessarily deprive him of his
privilege under Sec. 18 , the Court may yet, from
existence of the means of knowledge of the
fraud, find as a fact that the plaintiff had actual
knowledge of it. Similarly when a thing is openly
done, it will be difficult to justify a claim of
exemption from limitation on behalf of a person
who merely shuts his eyes to it." - 102 - 89. In the recent judgment in Rattan Singh

and others vs Nirmal Gill and others (Civil Appeal

Nos.3681-82/2020, D.D.16.11.2020), the Hon'ble

Apex Court has held that for invoking Section 17 of the

Limitation Act, 1963, two ingredients have to be pleaded

and duly proved. One is existence of a fraud and the

other is discovery of such fraud. The period of

limitation starts running when the applicants with

reasonable diligence have discovered the fraud. 90. For the aforesaid reasons, we are of the

considered opinion that the impugned judgment and

decree does not suffer from any perversity or illegality in

arriving at the conclusion of dismissing the suit.

CONCLUSION 1) Trial Court is justified in dismissing the suit

 against defendant Nos.2, 3 and 5, the same

 is confirmed. - 103 - 2) Plaintiff though succeeds on point No.2

 against defendant No.1 - Bank, relating to

 the violation of the mandate of the crossed

 cheques presented, fails on the ground of

 limitation. 3) The finding of the Trial Court inasmuch as

 defendant No.4 is upheld. 4) In the result, the appeal is dismissed. Sd/- JUDGE

 Sd/- JUDGE

Dvr/PMR