The present appeal has been preferred against the judgement

and order of conviction and sentence dated 26.08.2021 passed by the

Learned Special Judge, POCSO Court, Sealdah in Special Trial No. 2 05(12)2020 arising out of Special Case No. 40 of 2020 wherein the

learned trial court was pleased to hold the appellant guilty for

commission of offence under Section 12 of the POCSO Act and Section

66E of the Information and Technology Act, 2000(hereinafter referred to

as the ' I. T Act ') and sentenced him as follows:- The present case was initiated on the basis of a complaint lodged

by the 'X' (hereinafter referred to as the 'complainant') with the Officer-

in-Charge, Beliaghata Police Station on 20.09.2020. On such complaint

being received by the Police Station, Beliaghata P. S. Case No. 188 dated

20-09-2020 was registered for investigation. The allegations made in the letter of complaint were to the effect

that the complainant who is aged about 16 years, was residing within

the jurisdiction of the said Police Station. On 20.09.2020 at about 7.30

am in the morning she received a phone call from her elder sister Tulika

Mistry who represented that her obscene pictures were uploaded and

available at her other facebook account. She came to know that her 3 obscene pictures were available at some other facebook account and the

same were sent to her by Tulika Mistry through whatsapp. After seeing

the pictures, the complainant understood that the said photographs

were not uploaded by her and she realized that Riki @ Babai Das with

whom she had friendship and for two consecutive days had video chat

did the mischief. She alleges that she had shown her breasts in good

faith of which screenshots were taken by the accused without her

knowledge. The accused created a fake facebook account which was in

her name, from the facebook settings it reflected that the fake facebook

account was created through the mobile number 6291830256. The fake

facebook account had URL number facebook.com/profile.php and ID

no.100055564146665. She requested the Police Authorities to take

requisite legal steps against the accused and informed that the address

of Riki Das is 97, K. G. Bose Sarani, Kolkata -85. On completion of investigation, Investigating Officer submitted

charge-sheet against the appellant, Riki Das under Section 12 of the

POCSO Act read with Section 66D / 66E of the I. T. Act. After supply of copies on which the prosecution intended to rely,

charge was framed against the accused/appellant and the contents were

read over to him to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 4 The prosecution in order to prove its case relied upon eleven (11)

witnesses which included P.W-1, 'X' complainant/victim girl; P.W-2

Tulika Mistry, cousin sister of the complainant; P.W-3, Karabi Roy, aunt

of the complainant; P.W-4, 'Y' father of the victim girl; P.W-5, Bappa

Naskar, seizure list witness; P.W-6, Thirtha Ghosh, seizure list witness;

P.W-7, Sosanna Rai, Judicial Magistrate, 2nd Court, Sealdah; P.W-8,

Ratna Sarkar, LSI of Police attached to Narkeldanga P.S; P.W-9, Biren

Roy Chowdhury, constable of police at Photographic Section, Scientific

Wing, DD, Lalbazar; P.W-10, Gunasindhu Sahoo, reporting officer, Cyber

Forensic and Digital Examination Laboratory at SDF Building, Sector -V

under the ADG(CID), West Bengal; P.W-11, Amit Sen Gupta,

Investigating Officer of the case. The documents and materials which were produced in support of

the case included Ext.1(written complaint), signature of PW1 on seizure

list dated 21.09.2020 (Ext.2/1), signature of Pulak Mondal on seizure

list dated 21.09.2020 (Ext.2/2), birth certificate (Ext.3), two signatures

on the statement U/s 164 Cr.P.C (Ext.4/1 collectively), one printed

photograph (Ext.5), signature of PW5 on the seizure list dated

21.09.2020 (Ext.6/1), signature of PW6 on the seizure list dated

21.09.2020 (Ext.6/2), statement under section 164 Cr.P.C of victim girl

(Ext.4), statement of victim girl (Ext.7 with objection), six number of 5 print outs (Ext.11 to 11/5), brown colour envelope containing picture

(Ext.11/a), green envelope (Ext.11/b), formal FIR (Ext.12), seizure list

dated 21.09.2020 (Ext.6), seizure list dated 21.09.2020 (Ext.2), xerox

copy of birth certificate (Ext.13), packet pasted with label (Ext.14), rough

sketch map (Ext.15), five photographs (Ext.16 to Ext.16/4), five

photographs (Mat Ext.1 to Ext.1/4), micro SD chip (Mat Ext. II), mobile

phone (Mat Ext. III), SIM card (Mat Ext.III/1), memory card (Mat.

Ext.III/2), brown envelope (Mat Ext.III/a), light green envelope (Mat

Ext.III/b), Mobile phone (Mat Ext.IV). In the present case after the prosecution evidence was closed and

the examination of the accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C was over,

opportunity was granted to the accused to adduce evidence in support of

its case but the accused/defence did not tender any witness or

documentary evidence in order to resist the prosecution version but

relied upon the prosecution evidence to counter the prosecution version. P.W-1 is the victim girl and the complainant of the case. She

deposed that on 20-09-2020 at 7.30 am her cousin Tulika Mistry told

her over phone that someone posted obscene photography in the

facebook by opening a fake facebook account in her name Sunayna

Kumari. Sunayana Kumari has also been mentioned in her own

facebook account and her cousin sister sent her three photographs to 6 her whatsapp account. After seeing the said photographs she came to

understand that she did not upload the said photographs in the

facebook account and some unknown person uploaded the said three

photographs by creating fake facebook in her name as Sunayana

Kumari. In the said fake facebook account her phone number was not

available and her own facebook account lies with her own phone

number. In the fake facebook account her photographs were also

uploaded in profile picture. Prior to four months of 20-09-2020, she had

friendship with Riki Roy @ Babai through facebook. The said Riki Roy @

Babai sent friend request to her and she accepted the same and since

then there was correspondence between them, which was continuing.

The said conversation was through phone call and video call. During

one of such video call the accused Riki told her to show her breast when

at first she refused his request, however the accused repeatedly request

her when she showed her breast at the time of video call. Riki by taking

screen shot saved the said photographs of her breast and since then

used to blackmail her by sending said photographs through messenger.

She alleged that Riki used to threat her by saying that if she did not

maintain the relationship with him, he will upload her said

pictures/photographs in the facebook. Thereafter, Riki opened the fake

facebook account in her name and uploaded the said 7 pictures/photographs in the said fake facebook account. She identified

the accused in court. After having knowledge regarding the incident she

informed the matter to her aunt as her parents were at their place of

duty. She was accompanied by her aunt and cousin sister to the police

station where she lodged the written complaint. She identified the

complaint and her signature which was marked as Ext.1. On the next

date, she along with her father had been to the Beliaghata Police Station

and on her production police seized her birth certificate, her mobile

phone with SIM and printed copies of the said photographs under

seizure list where she identified her signature on the seizure list dated

21.09.2020 which was marked as Ext. 2/1. She also identified her

father's signature on the seizure list which was marked as Ext. 2/2. The

birth certificate was also identified by her which was marked as Ext. 3.

She identified the photographs and mobile phone with SIM. She also

gave her statement before the learned Judicial Magistrate and signed the

said statement. Her two signatures on the statement under Section 164

of the Code of Criminal were marked as Ext. 4/1 collectively. PW-2 Tulika Mistry is the cousin sister of the complainant. She

deposed that on 20-09-2020 at about 7.30 am she noticed in her

facebook that there are three pictures of her cousin sister namely 'X' in

the name of Sunayana Kumari. She knew that 'X' had only one facebook 8 account in her name and in some of the photographs breast of 'X' were

seen. She sent the said obscene photographs through whatsapp number

to 'X'. Then 'X' told her that one Riki sent her friend request in the

facebook and she accepted the said friend request. During conversation

in the facebook and also in the mobile, while video calling, the accused

Riki told her to show her breasts and for that reason, 'X' showed her

breast, photographs of which by screenshot were taken by the accused

in the mobile. 'X' also complained to her that as there was difference of

opinion, the accused uploaded the pictures of obscene photographs in

the facebook for such reason. She also accompanied 'X' to the police

station and she was interrogated by the police authorities. P.W3 Karabi Roy is the aunt of 'X'. She deposed that on 20-09-

2020 at about 7.30 am her daughter Tulika told her over phone that she

had seen some obscene photographs of 'X' on the mobile and she

accordingly informed the matter to her brother over phone as he was at

his working place and his wife was also not available in the house. Her

brother told her to go to the police station to lodge complaint.

Accordingly, she along with 'X' and her daughter went to the police

station. 'X' lodged the written complaint to the police authorities. She

also deposed that he had seen the obscene pictures. She identified one

of such pictures/photographs which was marked as Ext.5. After the 9 complaint was lodged, she returned to her brother's house. On the next

day i.e., 21.09.2020 she along with her brother and 'X' went to the police

station again and handed over birth certificate of 'X', mobile phone of 'X'

and some photographs to the police. P.W4 'Y' is the father of 'X'. She deposed that on 20-09-2020, her

elder sister told him over phone that some obscene photographs were

seen in the mobile of Tulika and at that time he was not at his house

and after returning to his house he saw the photographs in the mobile.

On 21.09.2020, he along with others had been to the police station and

handed over birth certificate of 'X', mobile phone and photographs to the

police who seized the same under the seizure list and signed. He

identified his signature, which was marked as Ext. 2/2. The

photographs are also shown to the witness who identified the same. P.W5 Bappa Naskar is a seizure list witness. He deposed that he

along with one Thirtha Ghosh were sitting at a tea stall when the police

authorities arrived there with a boy. The boy went to his house and took

out a black colour mobile phone from his house and handed over to the

police. He signed on the seizure list and identified his signature therein

which was dated 21.09.2020. The said seizure list was marked as Ext.

6/1. P.W-6 is Thirtha Ghosh. He deposed in the same manner as

P.W - 5 and identified his signature on the seizure list dated 21.09.2020

which was marked as Ext. 6/2. However, the witness identified the

accused who handed over the mobile phone to the police. P.W-7 is Sosanna Rai. She is the Judicial Magistrate, 2nd court,

Sealdah who recorded the statement of the victim girl 'X' under Section

164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. She identified the statement

under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which was in her

own handwriting. She also identified the signature of 'X' on the

statement which was marked as Ext.4. P.W. 8, Ratna Sarkar is the Sub Inspector attached to

Narkeldanga PS. She deposed that she was posted at Beliaghata PS

under same capacity. She recorded the statement of the victim girl under Section 161 Cr.P.C as per her conversation. The contents of the

statement was read over and explained to the victim girl. The statement

was marked as Ext.7. P.W. - 9 is Biren Roy Chowdhury. He was a constable of police

attached to Photographic Section, Scientific Wing, DD, Lalbazar. He

deposed that on 09.12.2020 as per instruction of the Officer-in-Charge,

Scientific Wing, DD, Lalbazar he went to Beliaghata Ps and met with

Inspector-in-Charge who took him to 47, Chaulpatti Road and told him 11 to take photographs of the place of occurrence and its surroundings.

Accordingly, he took five photographs of the place of occurrence and its

surroundings. The said photographs were taken by a digital camera with

micro SD chip. He identified the five photographs which was marked as

Mat. Ext. I to Ext.I/4 and also identified the said micro SD chip, which

was marked as Mat. Ext. II. P.W-10 is Gunasindhu Sahoo. He deposed that he was the

reporting officer attached to Cyber Forensic and Digital Examination

Laboratory at SDF Building, Ground floor, Salt Lake, Sector-V under the

control of ADG(CID), W.B. On 30.09.2022, their office received

intimation under case token no. 05/20/CFDEEL dated 30-09-2020, as

per endorsement of Director-in-Charge on 11.01.2021 he opened the

said case token no. 05/20/CFDEEL dated 30-09-2020 with the

assistance of Shilpa Chakroborty and Swarnendu Das and found from

the sealed packet one mobile phone with SIM card and one external

memory card and six copies print out of screen shot photographs. On

the basis of the requisition of the Investigating Officer, the same was

examined. After examination a report was prepared. The report

contains four sheets. He identified his signature with official seal on the

report. The forensic examination report containing four sheets was

marked as Ext.8. Along with the report the extraction report of mobile 12 data containing 48 sheets were kept as Annexure 'A' aggregating to 49

sheets which were collectively marked as Ext. 9. Soft copy of total

extraction data of mobile in respect of said examination was given in a

pen drive. After opening the sealed packet, the pen drive was taken out.

The said pen drive and the envelope wherein the pen drive was kept were

signed with official seal on the envelope. The pen drive was marked as

Ext. 10 and the envelope were marked as Ext. 10/1. A sealed packet was

opened in court and one brown colour envelope was taken out and from

the brown colour envelope, a mobile phone was taken out and one SIM

card and one memory card were also taken out. The said mobile phone,

SIM card, memory card was examined and the witness signed on the

backside of mobile phone and also signed his initials in the SIM card

and memory card. He identified his signatures and initials. The mobile

phone was marked as Mat. Ext. III, SIM card was marked as Mat. Ext.

III/1 and memory card was marked as Mat. Ext. III/2. The envelope

which was inside the brown colour envelope with mobile phone which

had a signature with official seal was marked as Mat. Ext. III/a. The

brown colour envelope by which investigating officer sent the mobile

phone along with SIM card and memory card was marked as Mat.

Ext.III/b. Another sealed packet was opened in court and one brown

colour envelope was taken out and from the brown colour envelope six 13 copy print out were also taken out. The print outs were sent by the

investigating officer to their office which was examined. The six number

print out were marked as Ext. 11 to 11/5. The brown color envelope

which was sent by the investigating officer along with the six number

print out was marked as Ext. 11/a. The six print out and the brown

colour envelope after examination containing the signature with official

seal of the witness was marked as Ext. 11/b. PW-11, Amit Sen Gupta is the Investigating Officer of the case.

This witness narrated the manner in which investigation was carried out

and the chronology by which he proceeded to apprehend the accused,

collect the data, sent the same for forensic examination, collected the

report, took assistance of the Photographic Section of DD, Lalbazar and

also arranged for recording statement of the victim girl through a lady

Sub Inspector and also by the Judicial Magistrate and on conclusion

submitted chargesheet no. 161 dated 24-11-2020 under Section 12 of

the POCSO Act read with Sections 66D / 66E of the I. T. Act against the

accused Riki Das @ Babai. Mr. Chatterjee, learned advocate appearing for the appellant

submitted that the appellant has been falsely implicated in connection

with the instant case and the learned trial court erroneously convicted

the appellant without appreciating the evidence. It was emphasized that 14 the primary duty of the prosecution during the trial is to lay down the

foundational facts and then only the prosecution can claim for invoking

the presumption. In this case, according to the learned advocate, none of

the ingredients of Section 11 of the POCSO Act has been proved by the

prosecution so as to convict the appellant and punish him under Section

12 of the POCSO Act. Learned advocate also emphasized that the nature

of documents marked in evidence also do not qualify the necessary

ingredients of Section 66E of the I. T. Act. Lastly, the learned advocate

prayed for interference by this Court in respect of order of conviction and

sentence passed by the learned trial court. Mr. Dutt, learned advocate for the victim submitted that even if

the oral evidence is taken into account, the ingredients of Section 11 of

the POCSO Act is satisfied. Learned advocate, to that effect drew the

attention of the Court to sub-Section (ii) of Section 11 which is set out as

follows : Reliance was placed on the deposition of PW-1 by the learned

advocate to substantiate his contention. Mr. Mukherjee, learned Public Prosecutor resisted the contention

of the appellant and submitted that the prosecution by way of cogent

evidence has proved its case and there is no room for interference in the

judgement and order of conviction and sentence passed by the learned

trial court. In the present case, the documentary evidence placed by the

prosecution along with the opinion of the expert assumes significant

importance. Exhibit-2 is the seizure list dated 21.09.2020 by way of

which the birth certificate of the victim and blue coloured VIVO mobile

having connection No. 7439605623 were seized. The said seizures were

effected pursuant to the same being produced by the victim 'X' and her

father 'Y'. Exhibit-6 related to seizure of one black colour MI mobile

having model number - M1903C3GI IMEI No. - 863982047668210/01,

863982047668228/01 Sl No.-c6c21ace7d06, with SIM No.-8697305120

(connection number) in slot-1, SIM No. 8991301804798922038SY and

the same was seized pursuant to the identification of accused Riki Das @

Babai from his residence while he was in custody. The result of

examination in the report of PW-10, Exhibit-8 is as follows : 16 Exhibit-9 is Annexure 'A' to Exhibit-8 which has been admitted in

evidence. One of the messages which was sent from 8697305120 (mobile 17 connection of accused Riki Das) to 7439605623 (mobile connection of

victim 'X') on 18.09.2020 reflect as follows : The opinion of the expert at serial no. 15.4 states that some of the

images retrieved from mobile phone marked as Exhibit-A (i.e. Redmi M-

1903C3GI) may be construed relevant with Exhibit-B (i.e. 6 screenshots). On an analysis of the seizure list and the report of the expert, it is

reflected that M-1903C3GI is the seized mobile set which was recovered

pursuant to the identification made by the custody accused Riki Das @

Babai as is reflected in the seizure list Exhibit-6 and the same reveals

presence of the images which were also handed over by the investigating

agency and print out of screenshots being taken from the mobile of the

victim 'X'. The oral evidence and the exhaustive report sent by the

forensic laboratory along with the documents do corroborate the

prosecution case and substantiate and prove the allegations made by the

victim 'X' for the charges framed against the accused. Having regard to the nature of such evidence which has surfaced,

I am of the opinion that there is no scope for interference in the

judgement and order of conviction and sentence passed by the learned

Special Court in connection with Special Trial No. 05(12)2020 arising out 18 of Special Case No. 40 of 2020. The trial Court judgment is therefore

affirmed. Accordingly, the criminal appeal being CRA 272 of 2021 is

dismissed. Pending connected application is consequently disposed of.

 The appellant is on bail. His bail bond stands cancelled. The

appellant is directed to surrender before the learned Trial Court/Special

Court by 01.05.2023. Department is directed to send back the lower court records along

with a copy of this judgement immediately to the learned Special Court. All parties shall act on the server copy of this judgement duly

downloaded from the official website of this Court. Urgent photostat certified copy of this judgement, if applied for,

be given to the parties upon compliance with all requisite formalities. (Tirthankar Ghosh, J.)