Heard counsel for the parties. The applicant has been arrested on 20.6.2014 in
connection with Crime No.06/2014 registered with Police
Station S.T.F., Bhopal - commonly known as VYAPAM
Examination Scam cases - for the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 & 120-B of IPC and
Section 3 (Gha) 1, 2/4 of M.P. Recognized Examination Act,
1937. The role ascribed to the applicant by the prosecution, is
that of a "middleman". The applicant had obtained a sum of
Rs.2,40,000/- from the original candidate - Sunil Kumar Tyagi
through another middleman - Devesh Tyagi. The applicant
with the help of other middlemen, namely, Sarvendra Jadon,
Parikshit Yadav and Bhoopendra Singh Rathore arranged for
an impersonator, who appeared in place of original candidate - Sunil Kumar Tyagi in the Constable Recruitment
Examination 2013 conducted by VYAPAM. It is stated that the applicant is also involved in one
more case pertaining to Crime No.19/2014 of similar type.
 The applicant is not involved in any other offence besides
these two offences. It is not disputed that all the co-accused persons have
been arrested. It is, fairly, stated by the learned counsel for the State, on
instructions, that custodial interrogation of the applicant is no
more required. Charge-sheet has also been filed against the
applicant. Further, the investigation against the applicant is
complete in all respects as of now in both the crimes and,
therefore, the presence of applicant is no more required. In that
sense, the link between the accused persons is already
complete in both the offences. Besides, the applicant through
counsel undertakes to appear before the Investigating Officer
as and when called for further investigation including against
him as also to punctually appear before the trial Court to
ensure early disposal of the criminal trial. In the interest of justice, taking overall view of the
matter, we deem it appropriate to grant bail to the applicant on
following strict conditions:- The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.