Dr. Shashi Bhushan Verma @ Dr. Shashi Bushan Verma .............. Appellant
 Versus
 Union of India through C.B.I ............... Respondent --- CORAM: Hon'ble Mr. Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh --- Through: Video Conferencing -- For the Appellant : Ms. Moushmi Chatterjee, Advocate,
 For the Resp.-CBI : Ms. Shivani Jhaluka, A.C to A.S.G.I --- Call for the lower court records in connection with R.C. Case
 No.47(A)/1996-Pat from the court of learned Special Judge-V, C.B.I., (A.H.D.
 Scam Cases), Ranchi. Learned counsel for the appellant has prayed for confirmation of
 provisional bail granted to the appellant vide order dated 15 th February 2022 by
 learned CBI Court, for which I.A. No. 2223 of 2022 has been preferred. Sole appellant stands convicted in connection with R.C.Case No.
 47(A)/1996-Pat vide impugned judgment of conviction dated 15.02.2022 and
 order of sentence dated 21.02.2022 passed by the learned court of Special
 Judge-V, CBI, (A.H.D. Scam Cases), Ranchi for the offences under Section
 120B read with Section 420 , 409 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 477A of the Indian Penal
 Code along with Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of
 Corruption Act and was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 3
 years (three years) with a fine of Rs.50,000/- (fifty thousand) and a default
 sentence under Section 120B of the I.P.C.; a common sentence for all other IPC offence rigorous imprisonment for 3 years (three years) with a fine of
 Rs.50,000/- (thirty thousand) and a default sentence and further rigorous
 imprisonment for 3 years (three years) with a fine of Rs.1,00,000/- (One Lac)
 and a default sentence under Section 13(2) read with 13(1) and (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act . All the sentences were directed to run
 concurrently. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that appellant was
 former T.V.O.M, Lohardaga at the relevant point of time during the subject
 period of instant Fodder Scam Case between 1991 and 1994-95. Learned trial
 court has rendered a common finding against the doctors of Animal Husbandry 2. Department at Para-110 and subsequent paragraphs of impugned judgment by
 holding that the A.H.D officials in collusion with each other and with the
 accused suppliers created papers to show that either the excess feed/fodder has
 been distributed free of cost to the villagers under imaginary schemes of the
 Government or transported it to the other districts. It is submitted that
 considering the nature and gravity of the offence the sentence of 3 years has
 only been awarded under the different provisions of I.P.C and P.C. Act with
 fine. Considering the aforesaid circumstances, learned trial court has
 been pleased to grant provisional bail to the appellant which may be confirmed. Learned counsel for the CBI submits that the prosecution evidence
 has successfully established the involvement of AHD officials, like the present
 appellant, who in conspiracy with the accused suppliers and others had caused
 fraudulent withdrawal from Animal Husbandry Department much beyond the
 allotment. Learned counsel for the CBI however does not dispute that the
 appellant has been awarded maximum sentence of three years for the offences
 for which he has been convicted. Having considered the submissions of learned counsel for the
 appellant and the C.B.I. and the facts and circumstances noted above,
 provisional bail granted to the appellant vide order dated 15 th February 2022 by
 the court of learned Special Judge-V, C.B.I. (AHD Scam Cases), Ranchi in R.C
 Case No. 47(A)/1996-Pat, is confirmed, subject to deposit of 50% of the fine
 amount in the court below and if not wanted in connection with any other case.
 The appellant would not leave the country without permission of the learned
 trial court. He would also submit her passport, if any, before the learned trial
 court and the appellant and his bailors shall not change their addresses or
 mobile nos. without permission of the learned Trial Court. I.A. No. 2223/2022 stands disposed of accordingly. (Aparesh Kumar Singh, J)
Jk/