This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 482 of Bharatiya

Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short 'BNSS') for grant of pre-

arrest bail to the petitioner, who is arrayed as accused No.3 in

Crime No.2395 of 2024 before the Cyber Crimes Police Station,

Hyderabad. 2. The brief facts of the case are that the complainant lodged a

complaint alleging that he was cheated in an online investment

scam through the website m.catalystmarketsfx.com. He stated

that a woman named Neha, posing as an employee of Cognizant,

befriended him over WhatsApp and induced him to invest in stock

trading. Believing her assurances, he transferred a total of

Rs.7,27,400/- through various bank transactions. Although the

platform initially showed profits, when he attempted to withdraw

his earnings, he was asked to pay additional taxes and exchange

fees, after which the fraudsters stopped responding. 3. Heard Sri Md. Fasiuddin, learned counsel appearing on

behalf of the petitioner as well as Sri D. Arun Kumar, learned 2 SKS,J Crl.P.No.12850 of 2025 Additional Public Prosecutor appearing on behalf of the respondent - State. 4. The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that role of

the petitioner was minimal and purely incidental, limited to

providing bank accounts without any knowledge of the fraudulent

intent of the other accused and that the petitioner had no criminal

antecedents. He contended that the digital evidence had already

been secured and custodial interrogation of the petitioner was

unnecessary. Therefore, he prayed the Court to grant pre-arrest

bail to the petitioner by allowing this criminal petition. 5. On the other hand, learned Additional Public Prosecutor

opposed the bail stating that the allegations leveled against the

petitioner are serious in nature. He further submitted that there

are several victims in the case and that a huge amount of money is

involved. He contended that the investigation is still in progress,

and therefore, granting pre-arrest bail to the petitioner at this stage

does not arise. Hence, he prayed that the Court dismiss the

criminal petition. 6. In the light of the submissions made by both the learned

counsel and a perusal of the material available on record, it is 3 SKS,J Crl.P.No.12850 of 2025 noted that previously the petitioner had filed Crl.P.No.10191 of

2025 before this Court, seeking the relief of grant of bail and the

same was dismissed vide order dated 22.08.2025 observing that

'The petitioner involved in five other criminal cases across India.

Since the present petition is for anticipatory bail, the criminal

antecedents of the petitioner must be duly considered. As seen from

the record, the petitioner has a history of involvement in multiple

cases. In view of the above facts and circumstances, the petitioner

is not entitled to the relief of anticipatory bail at this stage'. However,

it is noticed that there are no changed circumstances back then in

the earlier bail petition, and the present bail petition. As such, this

Court is not inclined to grant the relief as sought for, by the

petitioner. There are no merits in this Criminal Petition, and the

same is liable to be dismissed. 7. Accordingly, the criminal petition is dismissed. Miscellaneous applications, if any pending, shall stand

closed. _______________
 K. SUJANA, J
Date: 24.10.2025
SAI 4 SKS,J Crl.P.No.12850 of 2025 THE HONOURABLE SMT JUSTICE K. SUJANA

 CRIMINAL PETITION No.12850 of 2025

Date: 24.10.2025

sai