Adarsh Kumar Goel, J 1. This appeal under section 130 of the Customs Act, 1962

(hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') has been filed by the assessee against the

order dated 18.3.2008 passed by the Customs, Excise and Service Tax

Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as 'the Tribunal'), confirming the

demand of custom duty with interest. The appeal under the said provision lies

to this Court only on a substantial question of law. In para 6 of the appeal,

following substantial questions are sought to be raised:- 2007 (219) ELT 73. Confirmed by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Commissioner of

 Customs v. Leader Valves in SLP (Civil) No.CC3493 of

 2008 vide order dated 10.3.2008, 2008(227) ELTA 29.And

 on time bar in: 2007(219) ELT 73; 2) Commissioner of Customs v. Leader Valves Limited- 2007(83) RLT 921; 3) Aban Loyd Chiles Offshore Limited v. COC,

 Maharashtra reported as (2006) 6 SCC 482 at 489 Para 19. d) Whether Mr. Vijay Singh Bishnoi's statement dated

 24.11.2004 which is in violation of section 108 of the Act, can

 be relied upon in the proceedings? e) Whether interest under section 28AB of the act is leviable in

 absence of determination of short levy under section 28 of the

 Act? 2. Facts noted in the impugned order of the Tribunal or otherwise on

record are that the appellant imported consignments through ICD Balabhgarh

using transfer release advices (TRAs) issued by the Bombay Customs House.

On verification, it was found that DEPB licensees on the basis of which TRAs

were issued, were not genuine. The goods were cleared in May/June 2003 and

vide letter dated 5.8.2003, the Assistant Commissioner, ICD, Faridabad

informed the appellant that TRAs issued against the DEPB scrip's were forged

and that the DEPB were also forged. The appellant was required to deposit the

duty with interest in lieu of DEPB benefit availed by it. The operative part of

the notice is as under:- 3. The appellant vide letter dated 7.8.2003 wrote back, inter alia, to

the effect that it was surprised to learn about the forgery and was taking steps

to lodge FIR against the transferor and sought time to make payment. This

letter was followed by deposit of the amount of duty on 12.8.2003 under

protest. After completion of investigation, show cause notice dated 3.10.2006

was issued to the appellant alleging evasion of duty by seeking exemption

against debits in releasing the advices which were forged and which were not

genuinely issued by the competent authority. The notice further mentioned that

duty was demanded on 5.8.2003 and was paid under protest on 12.8.2003. It

was also alleged that the appellant had failed to verify genuineness of the

transaction and the document being forged was void ab initio and the duty had

been evaded unlawfully by submission of forged scrip's and goods were

illicitly removed for home consumption. The appellant was thus required to

show cause as to why - a. the goods cleared under the bills of entries as mentioned under
 para 1 above should not be held liable for confiscation under section 111(m) of the Customs act, 1962; b. the Customs duty amounting to Rs.1,29,43,927/- should not be
 demanded under proviso to section 28(1) of the Act ibid;
 c. the amount of Rs.1,29,43,927/- paid by them vide challan
 No.1611 dated 12.08.2003 should not be appropriated under
 the Section 28(2) of the Act ibid; d. interest on duty amount as payable above should not be
 demanded under section 28 AB of the Act ibid; e. penalty should not be imposed on them under section 114 A of
 the Act ibid; 4. After considering the reply of the appellant, the Commissioner of

Customs passed order dated 17.10.2007 holding that DEPB scrip's were

forged and thus ab initio void. Exemption availed of was inadmissible. Goods

were liable to confiscation and noticees were liable to interest and penalty. The

importer who claimed benefit on the basis of forged DEPB scrips stood at par

with his predecessor and could not get benefit of forged documents.

Immediately, after the clearance of goods, the assessee itself realized that

DEPB scrips were not good enough and paid the duty under protest. The

protest was liable to be discharged. The Commissioner, therefore, confirmed

the demand and directed appropriation of the amount already deposited. In

addition, confiscation was also ordered under section 111(m) of the Act apart

from redemption fine, penalty and interest. 5. The appellant preferred an appeal to the Tribunal and made a

statement that the appellant now knew that DEPB scrip's were forged but

denied intention to evade custom duty and also challenged demand of duty on

the point of limitation. The Tribunal rejected the plea of the appellant on the

issue of liability of duty but remanded the matter to the original authority on

the issue of penalty. Redemption fine was set aside. Relevant observations are

as under:- 6. We have heard learned counsel for the appellant and perused the

record with a view to satisfy whether any substantial question of law was

involved. 7. We are of the view that no substantial questions of law arise

which may call for entertaining this appeal. We proceed to consider the

questions proposed in the appeal as under:- 8. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that there was no

liability to pay duty as the licence had not been cancelled on the date of

clearance and the documents on the basis of which exemption from duty was

claimed, could not be treated as void. The appellant was not aware of forgery

having obtained the documents for consideration and in good faith. Moreover,

duty could be demanded only within a period of six months and extended

period of five years under proviso to Section 28 of the Customs Act, 1962 (for

short, "the Act") was available only if there was collusion or willful

misstatement or suppression of facts by the appellant. Forgery, if any, was by

the transferor. The appellant could not be held responsible for the same. 9. Learned counsel sought to support his submissions by the

observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in East India Commercial

Company limited v. Collector 1983 (13) ELT 1342 (SC)=AIR 1962SC 1893.

He submitted that the said view was followed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in Collector of Customs, Bombay v. Sneha Sales Corporation 2000 (121)

ELT 577 (SC) and Sampat Raj Dugar 1992(58) ELT 163(SC), by the Bombay

High Court in Taparia Overseas (P) Limited v. UOI , 2003161) ELT 47and K.Uttamlal (Exports) Pvt. Limited v. UOI 1990(46) ELT 527 and by the

Allahabad High Court in Coolade Beverages Limited v. Commissioner of

Central excise, Meerut 2004 (172) ELT 451 and H.Guru Investment (North

India) Pvt. Limited v. CEGAT, New Delhi 1998 (104) ELT 8. The CUSAP No.27 of 2008 8 submission is that even if a licence is void on account of fraud, this did not

affect the rights of transferee unless the transferee had not acted bonafide. He

also relied on judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Aban Loyd Chiles

Offshore Ltd. and others v. Commissioner of Customs, Maharashtra (2006)

6 SCC 482 and judgments of this Court in Commissioner of Customs,

Amritsar v. Vallabh Design Products ( 2007) 219 ELT 73 and Commissioner

of Customs v. Leader Valves Ltd. (2007) 218 ELT 349. 10. We are unable to accept the submission. The judgments relied

upon are clearly distinguishable. 11. In East India Commercial Company Ltd. (supra), infringement

of licence was alleged in importer selling the goods to third party and in

obtaining the licence by misrepresentation. The majority held that a licence

obtained by misrepresentation was not non est so as to consider the goods

imported without licence to be liable to confiscation. The specified authority

did not cancel the licence till its term expired. The goods were imported under

a valid licence. 12. We do not find any applicability of the above judgment to the

facts of the present case. In the present case, DEPB Scrip's were forged,

which has been admitted even by the appellant before the Tribunal. Benefit of

a forged document cannot be allowed to be retained. The judgment relied

upon does not in any manner lay down that benefit of a forged document could

be allowed to be retained. The principle laid down in the judgment relied upon

which has been followed in other judgments cannot, thus, apply to the case of

the present nature where benefit has been taken on the basis of a forged

document. 13. In Sneha Sales Corporation (supra), import licence was

cancelled after the import and following the judgment in East India

Commercial Company (supra), it was held that on the date of clearance of

goods, the licence was not non est. Both the judgments deal with the

confiscation and not with the payment of duty. In Sampat Raj Dugar (supra)

also the situation was identical as in East India Commercial Company (supra). 14. In Aban Loyd Chiles Offshore Ltd. (supra), the Court was not

concerned with taking of exemption by forged documents and the assessee

being confronted with the forgery within three months and having paid the

duty under protest, as in the present case. 15. We may also make a brief reference to the judgments of this

Court in Vallabh Design Products (supra) and Leader Valves Ltd. (supra),

wherein a finding was clearly recorded that the importer had acted bonafide

which finding was affirmed. 16. On the other hand, a Division Bench of this Court in Golden

Tools International v. Joint DGFT, Ludhiana 2006(199) ELT 213 after

referring to the judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in S.P.Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath , AIR 1994 SC 853 and

Commissioner of Customs v. Essar Oil Ltd. (2004) 11 SCC 364 observed:- 17. In The Commissioner of Customs, Commissionerate, The Mall,

Amritsar v. M/s. Parker Industries, Jalandhar (2007(207) ELT 658, a

Division Bench of this Court after referring to judgment of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Delhi Development Authority v. Skipper Construction

Company (P) Limited , AIR 1996 SC 2005 observed:- 18. Coming to the admitted facts of the present case, the appellant

availed exemption from duty in May-June, 2003. Within three months, the

appellant was informed about the forgery and the fact that the appellant was

not entitled to the benefit of exemption. Even as per scheme of exemption,

exemption was subject to export proceedings being realised within six months,

which in the present case, were never realised. The appellant paid the duty

under protest and has never denied that the documents were forged. Having CUSAP No.27 of 2008 12 come to know that the documents were forged and having been confronted

with that fact, the appellant was under an obligation to disclose the true facts

and by not doing so, the appellant was guilty of willful suppression of facts,

within the meaning of proviso to Section 28 and thus, extended period of

limitation could certainly be availed in the present case. 19. It is settled principle of common law that a purchaser steps into

the shoes of the seller and does not acquire better title than the seller. This

principle has also been recognized under Section 27 of the Sales of Goods Act,

1932. 20. The charge of duty is on the goods under Section 12 of the Act

unless a case of exemption is made out, irrespective of intention of any person. 21. Even though the word 'fraud' and "with intent to evade payment

of duty" are absent in Section 28(1) of the Act, willful suppression or

misstatement do find mention in proviso to Section 28 of the Act, which is

clearly attracted to the present case. 22. For the above reasons, we are of the view that proposed questions

of law (a) and (b) are not substantial questions of law.

Re. Question (c): 23. For the reasons already mentioned, it cannot be held that the

appellant had not suppressed the facts and was not covered by proviso to Section 28 of the Act. As held in Division Bench judgment of this Court in

Parker Industries, Jalandhar (supra), question of penalty stands on different

footing. The Tribunal has not recorded any finding that the appellant acted

bonafide, as was the case in the judgments relied upon in Vallabh Design

Products (supra) and Leader Valves Ltd. (supra). 24. For the purpose of duty, the Tribunal has clearly held that the

documents being forged, the appellant could not be allowed to take advantage

of exemption. The Tribunal noticed that the firm with whom the appellant

entered into the transaction was not traceable. The appellant itself had come to

the conclusion that the documents were forged. In these circumstances, if

further opportunity has been given to the appellant on its own asking and for

its own benefit, we do not find any error in the course adopted by the Tribunal

so as to give rise to substantial question of law sought to be raised.

Re. Question (d): 25. No argument has been addressed on this question. We are, thus,

unable to hold that the substantial question of law arise.

Re. Question (e): 26. The short levy has clearly been determined. This question does

not, thus, arise on facts. 27. There is thus, no merit in the appeal. 28. The appeal is dismissed.