1 Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see
 the judgment ? 2 To be referred to the Reporter or not ? 3 Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the
 judgment ? 4 Whether this case involves a substantial question of law as
 to the interpretation of the Constitution of India, 1950 or any
 order made thereunder ? 5 Whether it is to be circulated to the civil judge ?

================================================================
 NIKHIL T PARIKH - SOLE PROPREITOR OF PARIKH & PARIKH & 55....Petitioner(s)
 Versus
 UNION OF INDIA THRO SECRETARY & 14....Respondent(s)
================================================================
Appearance: Pursuant to reforms introduced whereby corporate

membership in Stock Exchanges was introduced, the VSEL

admitted corporate members. Recognising and appreciating

the necessity of introducing Screen Based Trading at Vadodara

which required a large premises, the VSEL acquired and owns

a nine-storey-building having an aggregate area of 156238

sq.ft. in Vadodara and another premises admeasuring 4183

sq.ft. also at Vadodara. In 1996, the VSEL went live for

electronic trading. Thereafter, the VSEL signed an agreement

with one CMC Limited for implementing fully automated stock

trading, settlement and clearing system. The VSEL has actively

focused on empowerment of investors by establishing Investor

Services Centres, Investor Education/Training Centre, Investor

Information Centre, well-equipped library, etc. It has also

developed advanced technological systems for its operations. Page 5 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 In or around the period between 1996 and 1998, due to

the expansion of terminals of the NSE and BSE all over the

country, the trading volume at all the RSEs, including the VSEL,

started dwindling. In order to revive the fortunes of the RSEs,

the SEBI issued a circular dated 26th November 1999

(subsequently modified by circular dated 16th December 1999)

permitting the RSEs to acquire the membership of the NSE and

BSE by floating a subsidiary company which would be

permitted to acquire membership rights in the BSE and NSE.

According to the provisions of the said circular, members of

the Stock Exchange were required to register themselves as

sub-brokers of the subsidiary to enable them trade through the

subsidiary. Pursuant to this, in the year 2000, the VSEL established

and promoted a subsidiary company called 'VSE Stock Services

Limited' ('VSSL') for acquiring membership of the BSE and NSE.

The VSSL is a professionally managed trading and clearing

member in cash segment of the BSE and NSE. The VSSL has

had an annual turnover of Rs.22,317 crore in FY 2009-2010,

Rs.17,639 crore in FY 2010-2011 and Rs.11,932 crore in FY

2011-2012. In fact, since its incorporation in the year 2000, the Page 6 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

VSSL has consistently had a very large turnover every year. Many RSEs, including the VSEL, had their own trading

platforms which were operational prior to the onslaught of

nationwide terminals of the BSE and NSE after which they

became non-operational on account of their not being able to

sustain themselves in competition with national level players

like the BSE and NSE. Due to the dwindling fortunes of the

RSEs pursuant to the expansion of the BSE and NSE terminals,

in 2004, an amendment was made to Section 13 of the SCRA

on account of which the RSEs could enter into a Memorandum

of Understanding (MOU) with the BSE and/or NSE. If an RSE

entered into such an MOU with the BSE or NSE and the SEBI

approved the same, the Trading Members of such RSE would

be allowed to trade on the NSE/BSE's trading platform, and

shares of companies which were exclusively listed on such RSE

(which did not have a trading platform of its own or whose

trading platform had become non-operational) could be traded

through the trading platform of the BSE or NSE as the case

may be. This enabled RSEs to once again become active Stock

Exchanges without having to spend huge sums of money to

make their own trading platform operational or create their

own trading platform where none existed. The VSEL has also Page 7 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

recently entered into such an MOU with the NSE which has

been approved by the SEBI and the bye-laws thereof have also

been approved by the SEBI and are awaiting publication in the

Official Gazette. Initially, the membership card bestowed ownership and

trading rights upon the Trading Members of the Stock

Exchanges. During the period 2000-06, the Stock Exchanges

all over the world including India underwent a process of

corporatisation (whereby the Stock Exchange would be

succeeded by another Stock Exchange which would be a

company) and demutualisation (whereby the ownership and

management would be segregated to some extent from

trading rights). For such purpose, the SCRA was amended in

the year 2004 to provide for the Demutualisation and

Corporatisation of Stock Exchanges. The newly inserted Section 4A provided for

corporatisation and demutualisation of all recognised Stock

Exchanges on and from the appointed date (which the SEBI

would appoint). Section 4B provided for submission of a

Scheme for Corporatisation and Demutualisation, approval and

consequent publication thereof by the SEBI. Page 8 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 At the time of approving the Scheme, the SEBI has

certain powers to restrict the voting rights of shareholder

Trading Members, the rights of the Shareholders or Trading

Members to appoint representative on the Governing Board

and the maximum number of representatives of Trading

Members (not exceeding one fourth) to be appointed on the

Governing Board. Furthermore, notwithstanding anything to

the contrary contained in the SCRA or any other law,

agreement, award, judgment, decree or instrument, upon

publication, the Scheme would become binding on all persons

and authorities. Pursuant to this, in 2005, the VSEL was converted into a

company limited by shares and also submitted its

Corporatisation and Demutualisation Scheme, 2005 providing,

inter alia, that 51% shareholding would be of the public. After

certain revisions, the said Scheme was approved by the SEBI

under Sections 4B(6) and (7) of the SCRA on 15.9.2005. The Scheme contained several provisions with regard to

the shareholding rights, the composition of the Governing

Board, etc. Some of the important provisions of the said Page 9 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

Scheme are reproduced hereunder: 4.3 Notwithstanding anything contained in clause 4.3,
 SEBI may nominate directors on the Governing
 Board as and when deemed fit. 6. Demutualisation Page 10 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 6.1 A Trading Member may or may not be a
Shareholder. 6.2 A Shareholder may or may not be a Trading
Member. 8. Shareholding Rights

 8.1 VSEL shall ensure that at least 51% of its equity
 shares are held by public other than shareholders
 having trading rights in the manner and within the
 period prescribed in sub-section (8) of section 4B of
 the SCRA. 8.2 On and from the Appointed Date, VSEL shall ensure
 that public other than shareholders having trading
 rights continuously hold at least 51% of equity
 shares. 8.3 On and from Due Date, no Shareholder, who is a
 Trading Member of any recognised Stock Exchange,
 shall have voting rights (taken together with voting
 rights held by him and by persons acting in concert
 with him) exceeding 3% of the voting rights in
 VSEL. 9. Memorandum and Articles of Association, etc

 9.1 The Memorandum and Articles of Association,
 Rules, Bye-laws and Regulations of VSEL on the day
 preceding the Due Date shall, unless contrary to or
 inconsistent with or excluded by this Scheme, apply
 to it on and from the Due Date. Page 11 of 208 Scheme appropriately in its Memorandum and
 Articles of Association, Rules, Bye-Laws and
 Regulations on or before the Due Date. amended after the Due Date in accordance with the
 applicable laws, provided that no such amendment
 is inconsistent with any provision of this Scheme. 12. Compliance with this Scheme
 12.1 VSEL shall ensure compliance with the provisions of
 this Scheme at all times and shall not do anything
 contrary to the provisions of this Scheme.

 12.2 Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions
 in clause 12.1, VSEL shall continuously comply with
 the provisions in clauses 4.3, 6, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6,
 9.2, 8.3, 9.3 and 11. 12.3 VSEL shall report compliance with the provisions of
 this Scheme in such manner as may be required by
 SEBI from time to time. According to the provisions of the Scheme read with Section 4B(8) of the SCRA, within 12 months from the date of

publication of the SEBI's order approving the Scheme, the Page 12 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

VSEL was required to ensure that atleast 51% of its equity

shares were held by public other than shareholders having

trading rights either by fresh issue of shares to the public or by

any other means specified by the SEBI. Moreover, on and from

the due date, no shareholder, who was also a Trading Member,

would have voting rights exceeding 3%. It is clear that the

shareholding of Trading Members was required to be reduced

to 49% and their voting rights were also curtailed by the SEBI

in exercise of its powers under Section 4B(6) of the SCRA. As

regards the Governing Board, it was provided that, on and

from the due date, the Governing Board would have to be

constituted in accordance with the VSEL's Articles of

Association and that representation of Trading Members could

not exceed one-fourth of the total strength and the remaining

Directors would be appointed in the manner specified by the

SEBI from time to time. It was also provided that the Chief

Executive would have to be an ex-officio Director. Therefore,

even as regards the representation of Trading Members on the

Governing Board, the SEBI had exercised its powers under Section 4B(6) of the SCRA. In terms of Clause 3.1 of the Scheme (which provided

that the remaining Directors would be appointed in the manner Page 13 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

specified by the SEBI from time to time), the SEBI, thereafter,

issued a letter dated 21 st September 2005, inter alia,

specifying the manner of appointment of the remaining

Directors of the VSEL. Some of the relevant clauses or extract

thereof as per the said letter are reproduced hereunder: On and from Due Date, as defined in clause 2.1 of
 Vadodara Stock Exchange (Corporatisation and
 Demutualisation) Scheme, 2005, composition of
 Governing Board shall be as under: fourth of the total strength of the Governing
 Board. 1.2.3 Shareholder Directors shall constitute the
 balance of the Governing Board. In case, the
 Exchange has strategic partner(s)/majority
 shareholders, at least one third of the
 Shareholder Directors shall be independent non-
 executive Directors. For the purpose of this clause, the term i) 'Independent Director' shall have same
 meaning as assigned to it in the Corporate
 Governance norms specified by SEBI under
 the Listing Agreement. ii) 'strategic partner/majority shareholder' shall
 mean a shareholder who along with persons
 acting in concert with him holds 15% or
 more shares or voting rights in the
 Exchange. 1.3: General requirements
 1.3.1 The Directors, except the Chief Executive such
 as CEO, ED or MD, etc. shall be elected by the Page 15 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 shareholders. 1.3.2 ..... 1.3.3 'Trading Member Directors' shall be elected from
 amongst the Trading Members. 1.3.4 'Shareholder Directors' shall be elected from
 amongst the persons, who are not Trading
 Members or Associates of Trading Members.
 ....... 1.3.5 'Public Interest Directors' shall be elected from
 amongst the Persons in the SEBI constituted
 panel. A person shall not act as 'Public Interest
 Director' on more than one Stock Exchange
 simultaneously. 1.3.6 The Chairman shall be elected by the Governing
 Board from amongst the non-executive non-
 Trading Member directors. 1.3.7 Manner of election, appointment, tenure,
 resignation, vacation, etc. of Directors (except
 the Chief Executive) shall be governed by the Companies Act, 1956 save as otherwise
 specifically provided under or in accordance with
 the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 .

 1.3.8 The Chief Executive shall be an ex-officio
 Director on the Governing Board. Page 16 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 1.3.9 No approval of SEBI shall be required for
 appointment of any Director except for the Chief
 Executive. 1.3.10 SEBI may nominate Directors on the
 Governing Board as and when deemed fit. 2: Chief Executive
 The appointment, renewal of appointment and the
 termination of service of the Chief Executive shall be
 subject to prior approval of SEBI. .........

 Therefore, there was a change to be effected in the

Governing Board on and from the Appointed Date, whereby the

Trading Members would constitute one fourth, Public Interest

Directors would constitute one fourth and Shareholder

Directors would constitute the balance. The reason for this

change was that, after the Appointed Date, 51% of the equity

share capital was required to be held by the public other than

shareholders having trading rights. From the aforesaid, it is

clear that, even after the Appointed Date, Trading Members

were entitled to have a representation on the Governing Board

to the extent of one-fourth. It is clear that the SEBI had

exercised its powers under Section 4B(6) of the SCRA read with

Clause 3.1 of the Scheme. Page 17 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 As could be seen from the provisions of the SCRA, the

Scheme and the subsequent letter dated 21st September 2005,

at the time of approval of the Scheme and even thereafter,

there was no condition imposed that the VSEL (or any Stock

Exchange), for getting or retaining its recognition under the

SCRA, was required to have a minimum net worth of any

prescribed amount or an annual turnover of any particular

amount. Pursuant to this, on 13th November 2006, the SEBI issued

the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Manner of Increasing

and Maintaining Public Shareholding in Recognised Stock

Exchanges) Regulations, 2006. The said regulations were

applicable to all the recognised Stock Exchanges in respect of

which the Scheme for corporatisation and demutualisation had

been approved by the SEBI and prescribed by the manner in

which public shareholding could be increased, which could be

done by various means including fresh issue of equity shares

to the public through issue of prospectus or issue of shares on

private placement basis to persons other than shareholder

having trading rights or their associates, subject to the SEBI's

approval. The said regulations also provided that no person Page 18 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

could hold more than 5% in the paid up equity capital of a

recognised Stock Exchange and that no person could either

individually or together with persons acting in concert with him

acquire and/or hold more than 1% of the paid up equity share

capital of a recognised Stock Exchange unless he is a fit and

proper person and has taken prior approval of the SEBI. In the backdrop of the aforesaid existing

conditions/stipulations, since it was necessary to ensure that,

within the stipulated period, 51% of the equity share capital

was held by the public other than shareholders having trading

rights, the VSEL decided to go for the issue of shares on

private placement basis and, therefore, issued an Information

Memorandum for Inviting Expression of Interest. Pursuant to

this, by issuing 51% of its equity shares to the public, the VSEL

has complied with the said condition. Thereafter, the

Governing Board of the VSEL consisted of 3 Trading Member

Directors, 3 Public Interest Directors and 6 Shareholder

Directors (including the Chairman). Therefore, the VSEL was

fully complying with the requirements of the Scheme and the

SEBI's direction under Section 4B(6) of the SCRA. On 29th December 2008, the SEBI issued another circular Page 19 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

which gave guidelines to provide an exit option to such RSEs

whose recognition had been withdrawn or was under renewal

or had been refused by the SEBI or those who wanted to

surrender their recognition. The guidelines dealt with the issue

of retention of assets by such RSE on fulfillment of certain

conditions and also provided that, upon derecognition, the

Stock Exchange would continue to be a corporate entity under

the Companies Act, 1956 , and its subsidiaries could continue

to function as a normal broking entity and the Trading

Members thereof would be deregistered. It further provided,

inter alia, that companies listed with a derecognised RSE and

also listed with another Stock Exchange would continue to be

listed in such other Stock Exchange whereas companies listed

exclusively on the derecognised RSE would have to either seek

listing at another Stock Exchange or provide exit option to

shareholders as per SEBI Delisting Guideline. According to the requirements of law, the SEBI directed

the corporatisation and demutualisation of several Stock

Exchanges, including the VSEL, during the period 2004 to 2007

and asked them to go ahead and invite various investors to

purchase a total of 51% equity shares, thereby causing

innocent persons to invest their monies for purchasing shares Page 20 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

in Stock Exchange under the belief that such recognised

Corporatised and Demutualised Stock Exchanges, having

complied with all the requirements of law, would continue to

be recognised and be allowed to carry on their business

unhindered by any constraints/conditions (other than those

already existing at the time of corporatisation and

demutualisation). In the year 2010, the SEBI constituted a committee

under the Chairmanship of Dr.Bimal Jalan, Former Governor of

the Reserve Bank of India. Although the provisions regarding

ownership structure and board composition of Stock

Exchanges, listing of Stock Exchanges, etc. had already been

provided for in the SCRA and the approved Schemes of

Corporatisation and Demutualisation, including the Scheme,

yet the terms of reference of the Committee included

reviewing and make recommendations on the said aspects.

The Committee gave its report on 22 nd November 2010,

making several recommendations which would not only be

contrary to the SCRA and the Companies Act, 1956, but would

also affect the fundamental and legal rights of the Stock

Exchanges, their Trading Members, investors and listed

companies. Page 21 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 After a period of more than 7 years since the approval of

the Scheme, the SEBI has recently issued a Circular dated 30 th

May 2012, modifying the earlier Circular dated 29 th August

2008 and, inter alia, containing the following provisions: 2. Process of Derecognition and Exit

 2.1 .... 2.2: Stock Exchanges where the annual turnover on its
 own platform is less than Rs. 1000 crore can apply
 to SEBI for voluntary surrender of recognition and
 exit at any time before the expiry of two years from
 the date of issuance of this circular. 2.3: If the Stock Exchange is not able to achieve the
 prescribed turnover of Rs. 1000 crores on
 continuous basis or does not apply for voluntary
 surrender of recognition and exit before the expiry
 of two years from the date of this Circular, SEBI
 shall proceed with compulsory derecognition and
 exit of such Stock Exchanges, in terms of the
 conditions as may be specified by SEBI. Therefore, after having demutualised the Stock

Exchanges and having allowed the public to invest in 51% of

the shares of Stock Exchanges, the SEBI has now stipulated a

further condition of achieving a turnover of Rs.1000 crore on a Page 22 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

continuous basis, that too on their own platform, failing which

the SEBI would proceed to derecognise such Stock Exchanges. The Circular further provides that, in case of such

derecognition and exit, exclusively listed companies would be

required to apply for listing in another Stock Exchange and, if

they fail to obtain such listing, they would cease to be a listed

company and would be moved to the Dissemination Board

where the willing buyers and sellers of securities of such

companies would be given an opportunity to disseminate. The

Circular also provides that such derecognised Stock Exchanges

may provide opportunity to their Trading Members to trade on

Stock Exchange having nationwide terminal through their

subsidiary company which will function as a normal broking

entity. The Circular also contains provisions with regard to

treatment of assets of derecognised Stock Exchanges including

provisions to the effect that valuation would be done by the

SEBI appointed agency, up to 20% of the assets post tax would

have to be contributed towards the SEBI Investor Protection

and Education Fund, that dues of brokers would have to be

paid by such Stock Exchange and also that such Stock

Exchanges cannot alienate any assets without taking prior

approval of the SEBI. The Circular appears to have been issued Page 23 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

in exercise of purported powers under Section 11 of the SEBI

Act and Section 5 of the SCRA. Thereafter, in purported exercise of powers under Sections 4 , 8A and 31 of the SCRA read with Sections 11 and 30 of the SEBI Act, on 20th June 2012, the SEBI has issued the

Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and

Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012. By way of the Regulations, the composition of the

Governing Board was sought to be altered contrary to the

provisions of the Scheme and the time period for this to be

done was only three months. Hence, as on 20 th September

2012, the composition of the Governing Board of the VSEL was

altered by removing all the three Trading Members from the

Governing Board and, out of the total strength of 12 posts

(excluding Managing Director), 6 posts were reserved for

Public Interest Directors and 6 posts were reserved for

Shareholder Directors. Sometime thereafter, the Governing

Board of the VSEL consisted of only 1 Public Interest Director

and 3 Shareholder Directors and the rest of the posts were

vacant. Page 24 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 On 28th November 2012, the Governing Board of the VSEL

issued a notice calling an Extra Ordinary General Meeting of

the shareholders of the VSEL to be held on 29th December

2012. According to the said notice, the business to be

transacted therein is the appointment of 4 Directors in the

category of "Shareholder Director". The said notice is

completely contrary to the Scheme and the Companies Act,

1956 . Moreover, in view of the Regulations, Trading Members

of the VSEL who are also shareholders will not be permitted to

vote in the election of the 4 persons who are to be appointed

as Shareholder Directors. Thereafter, the SEBI issued another Circular No.

CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012 dated 13 th December 2012, inter alia,

stipulating that every recognised Stock Exchange having net

worth less than Rs.100 crore as on the date of commencement

of the Regulations would be required to submit its plan to the

SEBI for achieving the net worth in terms of the Regulations

within 90 days from the date of the Circular dated 13 th

December 2012. In such circumstances referred to above, the petitioners

have prayed for the following reliefs : Page 25 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

"A. This Hon'ble Court be pleased to issue a writ of or in
the nature of mandamus or any other appropriate writ,
order or direction holding and declaring that the Circular
dated 30.5.2012 at Annexure H hereto, the Securities
Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing
Corporations) Regulations, 2012 at Annexure I hereto,
the notice dated 28.11.2012 issued by VSEL at
Annexure J hereto and the Circular dated 13.12.2012 at
Annexure K hereto are ultra vires the Constitution of
India, the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 and are in contravention of the Companies Act, 1956 and
are unreasonable, unconstitutional, discriminatory,
inequitable, unjust, harsh and illegal.

B. This Hon'ble Court be pleased to issue a writ of or in
the nature of mandamus or any other appropriate writ,
order or direction holding and declaring that the
provisions of the schemes for corporatisation and
demutualisation, which are approved by SEBI and are
published as per the requirements of Section 4B of the
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, have full
effect and are binding. C. Pending the admission, hearing and final disposal of
the present petition, this Hon'ble Court be pleased to
stay and suspend the operation and implementation of
the Circular dated 30.5.2012 at Annexure H hereto, the
Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and
Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012 at Annexure I Page 26 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 hereto, the notice dated 28.11.2012 at Annexure J
 hereto and the Circular dated 13.12.2012 at Annexure K
 hereto. D. Pending the admission, hearing and final disposal of
 the present petition, this Hon'ble Court be pleased to
 restrain the respondent no. 3 herein from taking any
 steps in furtherance of the notice dated 28.11.2012 at
 Annexure J hereto. E. Ex parte ad interim reliefs in terms of prayers C and D
 hereinabove be granted. F. Such other and further reliefs as deemed just and
 expedient be granted." I. Stance of the respondent no.2 SEBI

 (A) Preliminary objections raised on behalf of the

respondent no.2 as regards the maintainability of the writ-

petition : (2) The petition mainly highlights the problems caused

 for the Stock Exchanges on account of the impugned

 regulations and circulars. The Stock Exchange is not the

 petitioner before the Court nor it has any grievance with

 the impugned regulations and circulars. The petitioners

 who are indisputably the Trading Members are not being

 divested of their right to trade as the SEBI had permitted

 the VSEL to form a subsidiary stock broking firm, which is

 a member of the other national exchanges. Therefore,

 the petition is not maintainable. permitted the small Stock Exchanges to promote/float a

 subsidiary company to acquire the membership rights of

 the other Stock Exchanges. Such a measure was

 introduced after considering the suggestions/revival

 plans forwarded by the small exchanges for their revival.

 The petitioners function as sub-brokers also and have

 been granted a certificate of registration by the SEBI. The

 livelihood of the petitioners is not affected in any manner

 on account of the conditions imposed on the Stock

 Exchanges by the SEBI for their proper functioning.

(4) The communication from the VSEL and the

 shareholders including the Trading Member shareholders

 of the VSEL clearly reveals that the object behind filing

 the instant writ-petition is that, while the majority of the

 shareholders of the VSEL desired to seek derecognition,

 the Stock Exchange has opposed to the desire of the

 Trading Member shareholders of the Stock Exchange. As

 the Trading Member shareholders are unable to convince

 the majority of the public shareholders, this petition has

 been filed challenging the policy decision of the SEBI. are 289. The petition has been filed only by 52 persons

 holding 405812 shares of the VSEL, which constitute 7%

 of the total share capital of the Stock Exchange.

(6) As the petition has not been filed by the Stock

 Exchange nor the Stock Exchange has lodged their

 objections to the provisions of the new regulation and the

 exit circular, this petition is not maintainable as it is

 intended to serve the interest of few Trading Member

 shareholders of the VSEL, i.e. 7% of the Trading Members

 only. (7) The appropriate forum for redressing the grievance

 would be the Company Law Board and not by filing a writ-

 petition invoking the writ jurisdiction of the High Court

 under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.

(8) The SEBI has introduced the policy to serve the

 interests of the stakeholders concerned and is done more

 in public interest. A handful of Trading Members of a

 Stock Exchange (i.e. 7%), if are aggrieved by the policy

 formulated in public interest, then the same cannot be

 modified only with a view to benefit 7% of the Trading Page 30 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 Members of a Stock Exchange. (9) Out of 23 recognized Stock Exchanges, only 3 Stock

 Exchanges which include the VSEL, have not put forward

 any plan for revival or any indication to exit. Three Stock

 Exchanges have already exited from the business of

 Stock Exchange, viz. HSE, SKSE, Coimbatore Stock

 Exchange, and eight Stock Exchanges have applied

 voluntarily to be derecognized as Stock Exchanges. None

 of the Stock Exchanges have challenged the provisions of

 the impugned regulations or circulars. (10) The VSEL is in a pathetic condition. There has been

 no trading in the VSEL since April 30, 2003. According to

 the SEBI circular dated 7th October 2009, the Stock

 Exchanges which are defunct or have been inactive for

 more than six months are required to seek the approval

 of the SEBI before commencing with the trade. Such

 approval is granted after conducting the necessary

 inspection of the concerned Stock Exchange. This is to

 ensure that the systems are running effectively in the

 Stock Exchange and there is no potential risk to the

 investors using the terminal of such Stock Exchanges. Page 31 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 The VSEL has not sought any approval from the SEBI for

 trading past couple of years. However, the renewal of

 recognition has been sought by the exchange time to

 time and has been granted by the SEBI. Although there

 appears to be some interest to continue recognition of

 the Stock Exchange, yet there does not appear to be any

 bonafide intention on the part of the Stock Exchange or

 its Trading Member shareholders to initiate and promote

 trading on the terminal of the VSEL. In such

 circumstances, the assertion on the part of the

 petitioners that their fundamental right to carry on any

 occupation, trade or business is without any substance.

(11) The Saurashtra and Kutch Stock Exchange (SKSE)

 had filed an appeal challenging the order passed by the

 SEBI withdrawing the recognition and the same was

 ordered to be dismissed by the Securities Appellate

 Tribunal vide order dated 13th July 2007 mainly on the

 ground that the SKSE remained defunct for almost nine

 years. The decision of the Tribunal was affirmed by the

 Supreme Court. those which are not properly managed may prove to be

 detrimental to the safety of the securities market as such

 exchanges could be used as a platform to conduct

 manipulation practices in the securities market. II. Overall stance of the SEBI : The SEBI has been established under the Securities and

Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 as a statutory and

regulatory body to protect the interest of the investors in

securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate

the securities market and for matters connected therewith or

incidental thereto. The SEBI is an expert body in the securities

market. Under Section 11(2)(a) of the SEBI Act, it has authority to

regulate business in Stock Exchanges and other securities

market. Further, in terms of Section 11(2)(j) of the SEBI Act, it

performs such functions and exercise such powers under the

provisions of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 as

may be delegated to it by the Central Government. The object of the SCRA is to prevent undesirable

transactions in securities by regulating business of dealing Page 33 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

therein and by providing for certain other matters connected

therewith. That Section 29A of the Securities Contracts

(Regulation) Act, 1956 provides for delegation of powers to be

exercisable by the Central Government to the SEBI by an order

of the Central Government, in relation to such matters and

subject to such conditions as may be specified in the order. In

terms of the Notification dated 13th September 1994, the SEBI

was invested with power to grant/withdraw recognition to a

Stock Exchange including the power exercisable under

following provisions of the SCRA: Thus, the SEBI exercises powers concurrently with the

Central Government under the SCRA. In addition to the aforesaid delegated powers, the SEBI

has also been conferred powers directly by the Parliament

under the provisions of the SCRA which include the power- (a) to approve and notify the Scheme in respect of
 Corporatisation and Demutualisation of a Stock
 Exchange, ( Section 4A , Section 4B ); (b) to approve the transfer of the functions of a clearing
 house to a clearing corporation and to approve the
 bye-laws of clearing corporation, ( Section 8A ); (c) to issue directions to the Stock Exchange, clearing
 corporation and any person associated with the
 securities market,( Section 12A ); (d) to adjudicate and impose monetary penalty ( Section
 23A to 23J ); and to frame regulation for carrying out
 the purposes of the Act ( Section 31 ). Page 35 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 A Stock Exchange is constituted for the purposes of

assisting, regulating and controlling the business of buying,

selling or dealing in securities. Thus, it has to ensure that the

business in Stock Exchange is conducted in a fair manner and

in the interests of investors and the securities market. It is a

first level regulator which regulates and controls the contract

in securities entered at the Stock Exchange and thus it works

in the interests of the investors and the securities market and

performs functions for the benefit of public/investors and thus

performs a public duty. The Stock Exchanges are considered as Infrastructure

Institutions for Securities Market of a country. This is because

financial institutions like Stock Exchanges are central to the

national economy and at the core; there would be the issue of

safety of the wealth of the citizens who avail the services they

offer. Therefore, for the economic health of the country which

encompasses public good also, it is of utmost importance that

Stock Exchanges perform their functions in a manner which

contributes to economic benefit of the Country. For this

purpose, their sound financial health, good management and

ownership and substantial business activities are foremost. All

these aspects are taken care of in the provisions of the SEBI Page 36 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

Act, the SCRA, the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder

including the directives issued by the SEBI from time to time. The Central Government announced its proposal to

corporatize and demutualise the Stock Exchanges by which,

inter alia, ownership, management and trading rights would be

segregated from each other. Accordingly, the SEBI constituted

a group headed by Justice M.H.Kania, Hon'ble the then Chief

Justice of India, on Corporatisation & Demutualisation of Stock

Exchanges in India. The group submitted its report on August

28, 2002. Subsequently, Sections 4A and 4B were inserted in

the SCRA vide Securities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004, (w.e.f.

12th October 2004). Sections 4A and 4B of the SCRA enabled

the SEBI to put into place a mechanism of separation of

ownership and control of Stock Exchanges from Trading

Members by implementing a Scheme for Corporatization and

Demutualisation. Conflicts of interest of Trading Members were

sought to be obviated by ensuring a disassociation between

members who trade on the exchange and control over the

ownership of the exchange. Further, every recognised Stock

Exchange, in respect of which the Scheme for Corporatization

or Demutualisation had been approved was mandated to

ensure that at least fifty-one per cent of its equity share capital Page 37 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

is held by the public other than shareholders having trading

rights, in accordance with the regulations made by the SEBI.

For this purpose, the SEBI notified SC(R) (Manner of Increasing

and Maintaining Public Shareholding in Recognized Stock

Exchanges) Regulations, 2006 (hereinafter referred to as

'MIMPS Regulations') which were subsequently repealed by the

impugned regulations. Although after corporatisation and demutualisation of

Stock Exchanges, a Stock Exchange is a company incorporated

under the Companies Act, 1956 , yet its constitution and

management and functions are regulated by the provisions of

the SCRA. The SCRA being the special enactment prevails over

other Acts including the Companies Act , in respect of the

regulation of Stock Exchanges. Specifically, certain provisions

of the SCRA have been given explicit over riding effect over

the Companies Act or any other law for the time being in force.

Such provisions include power to make rules including the

rules restricting voting rights of members, providing

restriction on the right of a member to appoint proxy,

providing regulation of voting rights so that each member may

be entitled to have only one vote irrespective of his share in

the paid up equity capital in the Stock Exchange ( Section 8 Page 38 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

read with Section 7A ); power to restrict the representation of

the stock broker on the governing board { Section 4B(6) };

power to restrict the right of shareholders to appoint the

representatives on the governing board, { Section 4B(6) }; the

manner in which at least 51% of equity share capital of a

recognized Stock Exchange is held by the public other than the

shareholder having trading rights Section 4B(8) }; and power of

SEBI to make rules relating, inter alia, to the governing body of

the Stock Exchange, its constitution and powers of

management, duties of office bearers of the Stock Exchange,

etc ( Section 8 read with section 3 ). Under Section 11 of the SCRA, the Central

Government/SEBI may supersede the governing board of a

Stock Exchange. This power is conferred with the objective to

provide a mechanism of regulation of business and prevention

of undesirable transactions in securities in the Stock Exchange

and to ensure that its functioning does not adversely affect the

interest of the investors, securities market and further to

ensure the compliance of the provisions of the SCRA, the SEBI

Act or rules and regulations framed thereunder or directives

issued thereunder. The powers exercisable by Central Government under Page 39 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

SCRA are also exercisable by the SEBI by virtue of general

delegation made by the Central Government in favour of the

SEBI. Earlier, the Central Government had framed the

Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 (hereinafter

known as 'SCRR'), however, the administration and

enforcement of the SCRR lies with the SEBI. After the demutualization process Stock Exchanges

had become for-profit companies and were free to pursue their

economic interest objectives, which was in conflict with their

role as a first level regulator. Therefore, there was a need to

formulate a regulatory policy to resolve the conflict of interest

issues and to have a balance between profit making objective

of a Stock Exchange versus its regulatory role, conflict

between the profit making entity versus its place in security

market as a public utility. Therefore, the SEBI appointed an

expert committee under the Chairmanship of Dr.Bimal Jalan,

Ex-Governor, Reserve Bank of India, to examine issues arising

from the ownership and governance of Market Infrastructure

Institutions viz. Stock Exchanges, Clearing Corporations and

Depositories. The said committee submitted its report to the

SEBI on 22nd November 2010, after following consultative

approach. Page 40 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 The respondent No.3 had given its comments on the said

report. The Federation of Indian Stock Exchanges (FISE) of

which respondent No.3 is also a member, had also given its

comments on the said report. The recommendation of the Jalan Committee and the

public comments received thereon and issues regarding exit of

de-recognised/non-operational Stock Exchanges were

discussed in the meeting of the SEBI Board held on 2 nd April

2012. The SEBI Board has representatives from MoF, MCA, RBI,

etc. After deliberations, the Board took the decisions regarding

ownership and governance norms for market infrastructure

institutions. These decisions so far as they related to

recognition, de-recognition, ownership and management of

Stock Exchanges and clearing corporation were implemented

through Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges

and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012, to provide for

the ownership and governance norms for Stock Exchanges and

clearing corporations. Based on the policy approved by the

Board regarding voluntary/compulsory derecognition and exit

of Stock Exchanges including de-recognised Stock Exchanges,

circular dated 30th May 2012 was issued. Page 41 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 The impugned regulations have been framed by the SEBI

in exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 4 , 8A , and 31 of the SCRA read with Sections 11 and 30 of the SEBI Act. As

stated above in terms of Section 11 of the SEBI Act, the SEBI

has been entrusted with the task of protection of investors and

development of securities market. Scope and objective of the

said section has been extensively dealt with by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in its recent judgments, and the Hon'ble

Supreme Court has held that under the said section the SEBI

has wide powers to protect the interest of investors and for the

development of securities market. Under Section 12-A of the

SCRA, the SEBI also has powers to issue directions to Stock

Exchanges, listed companies and other persons associated

with the securities market, inter alia, in the interest of

investors or orderly development of securities market, to

prevent the affairs of any recognized Stock Exchange or

clearing corporation from being conducted in a manner

detrimental to the interests of investors or securities market;

and to secure proper management of such Stock Exchange or

clearing corporation or any other persons providing trading or

clearing or settlement facility in respect of securities. The impugned regulations retain the principles of SC(R) Page 42 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

(MIMPS) Regulations, 2006 (since repealed) which prescribed

the ownership norms for Stock Exchanges. The impugned

regulations, additionally prescribes entry/eligibility norms,

ownership structure and governance norms, etc for Stock

Exchanges and clearing corporations. One of the major

requirements which were imposed under these regulations was

that the board of Stock Exchanges and clearing corporations

shall not have Trading Member/clearing member

representation and their associates and agents and shall

consist only of Public Interest Directors and shareholder

directors. The norms restricting the appointment of Trading

Members on the board of Stock Exchange was based upon the

reasons that the Trading Members on the board of Stock

Exchange are privy to confidential information and have a

conflict of interest in respect of the following issues: If the SEBI's power to modify schemes for individual Stock

Exchanges under Section 4B is recognized, the logical

extension of this, considering the SEBI's broad regulatory

powers under the Act, would be that the SEBI also has powers

with regard to ownership and governance of all Stock

Exchanges in general. This power has been exercised by way

of framing of regulations. Those aspects of ownership and

governance that needed to be clarified by way of circulars, was

done so and accordingly the impugned the SEBI Circular dated

13th December 2012 was issued. Both the impugned SECC Regulations as well as

impugned Exit Circular dated 30 th May 2012 were issued by the

SEBI after due consultation with all stakeholders including the

recognized Stock Exchanges, even though there is no statutory

mandate for SEBI to make consultations before framing

regulations or issuing circulars. In fact, the VSE also had

submitted its views on the Bimal Jalan Committee Report and

the SMAC Committee decisions (which were the eventual basis

on the which SECC Regulations and Exit Circular were framed).

Therefore to state that the policy was framed without due Page 70 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

consultation is not factually correct. Section 5 provides the power to withdraw recognition of

Stock Exchanges. This power given to the Central Government

is exercised by the SEBI in terms of the notification delegating

the power to it. Therefore in terms of Section 5 , if the SEBI is in

the opinion that the recognition grated to a Stock Exchange

under the provisions of the SCRA should, in the interest of

trade or public interest, be withdrawn, it may do so after

following due procedure under the Act. The reasons for forming

such opinion are not objectively outlined in the Act. Therefore

the reason on the basis of which such opinion may be formed

is left to the discretion of SEBI and may be outlined by way of

regulations, circular or any other regulatory direction. For the purposes of grant of recognition and continuous

recognition, the SEBI is empowered to issue conditions and the

direct that the rules of Stock Exchange the amendment, if

any, and if Stock Exchange fails to amend the rules then the

SEBI itself can amend the Rules. It is open to the SEBI to issue directions as per the

provisions of Section 12 (A) to a Stock Exchange in the Page 71 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

interest of investors and the securities market. The SEBI can

issue individual directions or conditions to each Stock

Exchange or issue the same in composite manner to all the

Stock Exchanges by way of circular or instructions. The

provision of Section 31 empowers the SEBI to make

regulations. The Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 being a

special enactment will prevail over other Acts including the Companies Act , especially in respect of regulation of Stock

Exchanges. The Statement of Objects and Reasons

appended to the Bill which was later enacted as SCRA begins

with the following sentence: Further, certain provisions of the SCRA have been given

explicit overriding effect over the Companies Act or any other

law for the time being in force. Such provisions include : The provisions of the SCRA and the provisions of the SEBI

Act are relied on for the purposes of passing the impugned

regulations and circular. Substantive power to restrict voting

rights of shareholders may be traced to Section 4B (6) of the

SCRA which provides that voting rights of Stock Broker

Shareholders of Stock Exchanges can be restricted. In the

present case, the SEBI has imposed such restriction by way of

the impugned SECC Regulation. Hence, existence of

substantive power regarding imposition of such restrictions is

beyond any doubt. This respondent also relies on the

provisions of Section 4B, Section 7A of the SCRA for the

purposes of demonstrating that this respondent has the power

to issue the impugned regulation and circular. Section 7A envisages imposition of such a restriction on the voting rights

of the Stock Broker Shareholders. Section 7A exists even prior

to introduction of Section 4B. Therefore, the SEBI has got

sufficient statutory powers under the SCR Act to impose such a

restriction notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act, 1956 . Page 75 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 The orders of the SEBI (in terms of Section 4B (1) )

approving the scheme of corporatisation and demutualisation

(hereinafter referred to as C&D Scheme) of respective Stock

Exchanges, contain a condition to the effect that the SEBI may

change the terms of the Scheme in the interest of investors or

in the public interest. In particular, para 8.0 of the C&D

Scheme of VSE reads as follows: The SCRA gives overriding effect to C & D Scheme once it

is approved by the SEBI. Such an approval may be conditional

(as mentioned above) or unconditional. Accordingly,

Corporatisation & Demutualisation Schemes have overriding

effect subject to any condition imposed by the SEBI. The

impugned regulations must be seen as directions of the Board

modifying the provisions of the Scheme, especially since the

impugned regulations, inter alia, deal with the manner of

demutualisation. Page 76 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 The C & D Scheme of the respective Stock Exchanges,

once approved by the SEBI, was required to be incorporated in

the Articles of Association/Rules of the respective Stock

Exchanges. The SEBI has power under the SCRA to amend the

Articles of Association/Rules of Stock Exchanges without any

distinction as to whether such Articles of Association/Rules

contains the provisions, as approved in the C & D Scheme or

other provisions not so approved. The SEBI is the statutory regulator of the securities

market cast with the function of protecting the interests of the

securities market, promotion of the development of and

regulation of the securities market. Need for granting

deference to the views of the expert body has been judicially

recognised both globally and within India. In the case of MCX-

SX v. SEBI & Ors., the Hon'ble High Court of Bombay (judgment

dated March 14, 2012) noted that the SEBI is an expert

statutory body and that the High Court would not be justified in

substituting the view of an expert adjudicator observed: The order of the Securities Appellate Tribunal in the

Ketan Parekh matter (SAT order dated 14 th July 2006) has also

explained lucidly the central relevance of Stock Exchanges in

the securities market, inter alia, noting that "a Stock Exchange

is an association of member brokers, whether incorporated or

not, for the purpose of facilitating and regulating the trading in

securities" and that Stock Exchanges are platforms for fair

price discovery of a scrip based on the market forces of

demand and supply. Net worth requirement is meant for determining the

financial health of the company/organization. It is required to

ensure that only serious and sound players who can provide

the required infrastructure for capital market can enter the

market. The impact on the net worth could be very high in

extreme scenarios. With depleted net worth Stock Exchange

may not be in a position to update and advance its

technologies and infrastructure for providing efficient Page 78 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

platform/transaction facility. This may affect to the companies

listed on such Stock Exchanges and investors at large. Stock

Exchanges provide transaction facility to investors and, thus,

discover the price of securities traded on them. Prices provide

the signal for efficient allocation of financial resources across

corporations. In this sense, the role of the Stock Exchanges in

efficient allocation of resource in the economy is of great

significance. Recognition to Stock Exchanges is provided for

the purpose of assisting, regulating or controlling the business

of buying, selling or dealing in securities. Traditionally, under

the open outcry system, a Stock Exchange was understood to

be a place where buyers and sellers met in order to buy/sell

securities. Over a time, technology has replaced the open

outcry system and automated trade engines execute trades

based on a price time priority or any other algorithm. To trade

through a Stock Exchange, the investor has to become a client

of a registered Trading Member of a particular Stock Exchange.

Stock Exchanges have been entrusted with various regulatory

responsibilities for ensuring market integrity and for protecting

the interest of investors. Stock Exchanges, therefore, cannot

be seen only as providers of electronic platforms for executing

trades. Investor Protection, Better Transparency, Market

Integrity, Market Efficiency, Quality of Supervision and Page 79 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

Competitiveness of Financial Markets are very important for

building confidence in any financial market. Confidence in

financial markets is the main driver encouraging cross‐border

retail and institutional investment flows. Therefore, a Stock

Exchange, apart from providing electronic platforms for

executing trades, performs a number of other functions such

as issuer regulation (listing, monitoring listing compliances,

dissemination of information) member regulation (registration

of members, inspection and enforcement action), trading

regulation (setting and enforcing trading rules, market

surveillance) and investor protection (dispute resolution,

grievance redressal, investor protection fund). Securities and

Exchange Board of India product design Stock Exchanges also

undertake support functions such as training and education,

technology solutions, data/information services and index

services. Halt in trading may prove detrimental to the interest

of investors, companies listed on Stock Exchange, foreign

investment and economy of country. As a safety measure to

counter any disaster like hacking of trading system, terrorist

activity, natural calamity and for ensuring incessant trading in

the securities listed on Stock Exchange, Stock Exchanges are

also required to maintain a disaster recovery system. Setting

up of such disaster recovery system and its maintenance Page 80 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

involves huge cost which calls for huge net worth.

Huge expenditure made by other Stock Exchanges on
the technology in the last three years: The JPC Report stated that there are several models of

demutualisation globally. In any case, the JPC recognised the

need for Stock Exchanges to be corporatized and demutualised

to bring in greater transparency an efficiency of the exchanges

and also segregation of trading and ownership. The recent failure of the National Spot Exchange Limited

(NSEL) illustrates the need for adequate capitalization, liquidity

and complete separation of management and the interests of

Trading Members. The order of the Forward Markets Page 82 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

Commission (FMC) dated 17th December 2013 held that certain

promoters and directors of the National Spot Exchange Ltd

(NSEL) were not fit and proper persons. The order also reveals

certain facts summarised below, which point to the need for

better regulation of market infrastructure institutions including

Stock Exchanges and clearing corporations. (i) During the month of July 2013, the NSEL suspended

 the trading in all contracts (except e-series). The NSEL

 further suspended the e-series contracts in August 2013.

 Subsequently, the Forward Markets Commission took

 steps to ensure settlement of existing contracts.

 Thereafter, inter alia, the following came to light: The total strength of the Governing Board shall not

exceed twelve (excluding the Managing Director) comprising of

atleast 50% public interest directors and the balance shall be

the shareholders' directors. It has been denied that the impugned notice dated 28 th

November 2012 issued by the Governing Board of the VSEL is

illegal or unreasonable in any manner. Page 88 of 208 Mr.Mihir Thakore, the learned senior advocate assisted by

Ms.Amrita Thakore, the learned advocate appearing for the

petitioners, vehemently submitted that the provisions of the

circular and the regulations are violative of Articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India. They do not constitute

reasonable restrictions and are, therefore, ultra vires the

Constitution of India and could be termed as arbitrary,

unreasonable and illegal. Mr.Thakore submitted that although a preliminary

objection has been raised on behalf of the respondents as

regards the maintainability of this petition, more particularly,

the locus standi of the petitioners to challenge the impugned

circular and the regulations as violative of Articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India, yet the petition is

maintainable as the fundamental rights of the petitioners to

trade in securities, as enshrined under Article 19(1)(g) of the

Constitution of India, would definitely get affected if the VSEL

is derecognized due to non-compliance of the conditions

imposed by the SEBI in its circular dated 30th May 2012. Page 89 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 Mr.Thakore submitted that the condition of annual

turnover of Rs.1000 crore coupled with the restrictions with

regard to the Governing Board, which are imposed by the

regulations, in effect, implies that, on the one hand all the

Directors are required to be appointed by the SEBI, or subject

to approval by the SEBI, i.e. the SEBI has absolute control over

the Governing Board of the Stock Exchange, and on the other

hand if the very same SEBI controlled Governing Board does

not take any initiative or interest in promoting the growth of

the Stock Exchange, it would directly affect the interest and

business of the other persons like the Trade Members,

shareholders, shareholders of the companies listed in such

Stock Exchanges. It is submitted that for no fault on the part of

such persons, they would lose their means of livelihood. Mr.Thakore submitted that the SEBI has essentially

altered the policy with regard to the Stock Exchanges in India

by issuing the circular and the regulations and, therefore,

could be said to have exceeded the powers conferred upon it

by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the SEBI

Act . Mr.Thakore submitted that the impugned circular cannot

be termed as law. It is submitted that the circular cannot be Page 90 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

termed as a statutory circular having any force of law even in

terms of Article 13 of the Constitution of India. It is further

submitted that the invocation of Article 19(6) of the

Constitution of India on the basis of the circular is

unsustainable in law. Mr.Thakore, by relying on Section 5 of the SCRA,

submitted that a circular cannot be issued as a regulation

under Section 31 of the SCRA, or a rule under Section 30 of the

Act, 1956. Mr.Thakore placed reliance on Section 11 of the SEBI Act

and submitted that although Section 11 speaks of the powers

and functions of the Board, but at the same time speaks of the

measures by law, and the circular cannot be termed as law. Mr.Thakore submitted that Section 8 of the Act, 1956 is

confined only to Section 3(2) of the Act and, therefore, the

condition of Rs.1000 crore turnover could not have been

imposed in exercise of powers under Section 8(1) of the Act. Mr.Thakore submitted that the conditions could have

been prescribed only by the Central Government. Section 4(B) Page 91 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

of the Act, 1956 could not have been exercised by the SEBI in

exercise of powers under Section 11 of the SEBI Act. Mr.Thakore laid much emphasis on the fact that the

Scheme was approved by the SEBI and people were invited to

invest at a time when there was no condition to achieve

turnover of Rs.1000 crore. To achieve the turnover of Rs.1000

crore, adequate platform needs to be created and such a

platform has to be created by the Board. Mr.Thakore, in such circumstances referred to above,

prays that there being merit in this petition, the same deserves

to be allowed. V. Submissions on behalf of the respondent no.2

SEBI : Mr.Shelat submitted that the SCRA, being a special

statute, will prevail over the Companies Act . Mr.Shelat has vehemently opposed this petition and

submitted that the impugned circular and the regulations are

in no manner violative of Articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the

Constitution of India. Mr.Shelat submitted that the powers

exercisable by the Central Government under the SCRA are

also exercisable by the SEBI by virtue of general delegation

made by the Central Government in favour of the SEBI. Earlier,

the Central Government had framed the Securities Contracts Page 93 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

(Regulation) Rules, 1957, however, the administration and

enforcement of the SCRR lies with the SEBI. Mr.Shelat submitted that the impugned regulations have

been framed by the SEBI in exercise of its powers conferred by Sections 4 , 8A and 31 of the SCRA read with Sections 11 and 30 of the SEBI Act. Under Section 11 of the SEBI Act, the SEBI

has been entrusted with the task of protection of investors and

development of securities market. It is submitted that the SEBI has wide powers to protect

the interest of the investors and for the development of the

securities market. Mr.Shelat submitted that under Section 12A of the SCRA,

the SEBI is also empowered to issue directions to Stock

Exchanges, listed companies and other persons associated

with the securities market, inter alia, in the interest of the

investors or orderly development of the securities market. Mr.Shelat submitted that with such objective in mind, the

impugned circular and the regulations have been framed by

the SEBI, and for such purpose, the SEBI relied on the Bimal Page 94 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

Jalan Committee report as well as the report of the group on

Corporatisation and Demutualisation of Stock Exchanges,

headed by Justice M.H.Kania, Former Chief Justice of India,

dated 30th January 2003. Mr.Shelat submitted that the circular has a force of law

and could be termed as a statutory circular. Mr.Shelat lastly submitted that the SEBI is the statutory

regulator of the securities market with the function of

protecting the interest of the securities market, promotion of

development of and regulation of the securities market. Being

an expert statutory body, this Court may not substitute the

views of such an expert adjudicator. Mr.Shelat submitted that

the laws relating to economic activities should be viewed with

greater latitude than laws touching the civil rights, such as

freedom of speech, religion, etc.

 In such circumstances referred to above, Mr.Shelat

submitted that there being no merit in this petition, the same

deserves to be dismissed. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the

parties and having gone through the materials on record, the

only question that falls for our consideration in this petition is,

whether the petitioners are entitled to any of the reliefs as

prayed for in this petition. Since a preliminary objection has been raised by the

respondents as regards the locus standi of the petitioners to

maintain this petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of

India, we propose to first deal with such preliminary objection. Locus standi of the petitioners is a sine qua non or

condition precedent for the exercise of power or jurisdiction by

the Court, inasmuch as, the legal capacity of a party to any

litigation, where any private or any public action in relation to

a remedy sought has to be decided before granting a relief,

the issue as to locus standi touches the jurisdiction of the

Court. The issue as to who may file a petition is a fundamental

right and has given rise to much debate and controversy, and

yet its importance cannot be ignored or underestimated

because the Court may not entertain such a petition if not Page 96 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

presented by an aggrieved or interested person. The traditional rule in regard to the locus standi was that

the judicial redress was available only to a person who had

suffered a legal injury by reason of violation of his legal right or

legally protected interest by the impugned action of the State

or a public authority or any other person who was likely to

suffer a legal injury by a reason of threatened violation of his

legal right or legally protected interest by any such action. The right that can be enforced under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India ordinarily shall be personal or individual

right of the petitioner himself. In Jashbhai Motibhai v. Roshan Kumar , (1976)1 SCC 671,

after referring to several English, American and Indian cases,

the Supreme Court observed that various tests have to be

applied to decide whether a person can be said to be an

'aggrieved person'. The Court stated : In the aforesaid context, we propose to also rely upon the

following observations of the Supreme Court in the case of Ghulam Qadir v. Special Tribunal , (2002)1 SCC 33, which has

been subsequently relied upon by another bench of the

Supreme Court in the case of M/s.Tashi Delek Gaming

Solutions Ltd. and another v. State of Karnataka and others ,

reported in AIR 2006 SC 661 : Bearing the aforesaid principle in mind, we proceed to

consider the locus standi of the petitioners. It appears from the materials on record that the VSEL, Page 99 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

which is a regional Stock Exchange (RSE) was established in

1990 as a company limited by guarantee, in which ownership

and trading rights were vested upon its Trading Members. The

petitioners herein are Trading Members and shareholders of

the VSEL. It also appears that the SEBI issued a circular in 1999

permitting the RSEs to acquire membership of the NSE and

BSE by floating a subsidiary which would be permitted to

acquire membership rights in BSE and NSE. The members of such RSE were required to register

themselves as sub-brokers of the subsidiary to enable them to

trade through the subsidiary. It also appears that the VSEL established a subsidiary

called 'VSE Stock Services Limited' (VSSL) for acquiring

membership of BSE and NSE. The SCRA was amended to

provide for corporatisation (whereby the Stock Exchange would

be succeeded by another Stock Exchange which would be a

company) and demutualisation (whereby the ownership and

management would be segregated to some extent from the

trading rights) of Stock Exchanges. In this regard, Sections 4A Page 100 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

and 4B were inserted in the SCRA, inter alia, containing the

provisions whereby a scheme was required to be approved by

the SEBI for corporatisation and demutualisation of each Stock

Exchange. In 2005, the VSEL was converted into a company limited

by shares and submitted its Corporatisation and

Demutualisation Scheme, 2005, providing, inter alia, that 51%

share holding would be of the public. Therefore, a share

holding of the Trading Members like the petitioners was

reduced to 49%. On 30th May 2012, the SEBI issued a circular stipulating a

condition upon the Stock Exchanges of achieving a turnover of

Rs.1000 crore on a continuous basis on their own platform,

failing which the SEBI would proceed to derecognise such

Stock Exchanges. The SEBI, thereafter, issued the Securities

Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing

Corporation) Regulations, 2012, which provides that no Trading

Member or clearing member or their associates and agents

shall be on the Governing Board of any recognised Stock

Exchange. The SEBI also issued a circular stipulating that every

recognised Stock Exchange having net worth less than Rs.100 Page 101 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

crore as on the date of the commencement of the regulations

would be required to submit its plan to the SEBI for achieving

the net worth in terms of the regulations within 90 days. In the aforesaid background, the petitioners who are the

Trading Members holding 49% of shares in the company are

apprehending that in view of the impugned circular and the

regulations their right to trade in securities as enshrined under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India will get infringed as

it is not possible to fulfill the conditions imposed by the SEBI,

although in public interest. We are of the view that although a person may not claim

a fundamental right to carry on trade in securities at a

particular Stock Exchange only, yet the petitioners as the

Trading Members, if prohibited in any manner or are unable to

trade on account of the restrictions imposed, it would not

prevent them from challenging the constitutionality of the

circular or the regulations itself on the ground that it offends

against the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19(1) (g) of the Constitution of India by showing that the restrictions

goes in excess of the object or because the activities which are

not pernicious are included within the sweep of the statute or Page 102 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

because the procedure laid down in the statute is

unreasonable or unjust or arbitrary. We, thus, reject the preliminary objection raised by the

respondents and proceed to consider the submissions on

merits. Before adverting to the rival submissions canvassed on

either sides, we deem it necessary to look into various

provisions of the SCRA, 1956 and the SEBI Act, 1992 : 1 ['(aa) "corporatisation" means the succession of a
 recognised Stock Exchange, being a body of
 individuals or a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of 1860), by
 another Stock Exchange, being a company
 incorporated for the purpose of assisting, regulating
 or controlling the business of buying, selling or Page 103 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 dealing in securities carried on by such individuals
 or society; (ab) "demutualisation" means the segregation of
 ownership and management from the trading rights
 of the members of a recognised Stock Exchange in
 accordance with a scheme approved by the
 Securities and Exchange Board of India;]

 2 [3 [(ac)] "derivative" includes-- (A) a security derived from a debt instrument,
 share, loan, whether secured or unsecured, risk
 instrument or contract for differences or any
 other form of security; (B) a contact which derives its value from the
 prices, or index of prices, of underlying
 securities]] (b) 'Government security' means a security created
 and issued, whether before or after the
 commencement of this Act, by the Central
 Government or a State Government for the purpose of
 raising a public loan and having one of the forms
 specified in clause (2) of section 2 of the Public Debt
 Act, 1944 (13 of 1944); (c) 'member' means a member of a recognised Stock
 Exchange; Page 104 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT (d) 'option in securities' means a contract for the
 purchase or sale of a right to buy or sell, or a right to
 buy and sell, securities in future, and includes a teji, a
 mandi, a teji mandi, a galli, a put, a call or a put and
 call in securities; (e) 'prescribed' means prescribed by rules made under
 this Act; (f) 'recognised Stock Exchange' means a Stock
 Exchange which is for the time being recognised by
 the Central Government under section 4 ; (g) 'rules', with reference to the rules relating in
 general to the constitution and management of a
 Stock Exchange, includes, in the case of a Stock
 Exchange which is an incorporated association, its
 memorandum and articles of association;

 4(ga) "scheme" means a scheme for corporatisation or
 demutualisation of a recognised Stock Exchange which
 may provide for- (i) the issue of shares for a lawful consideration and
 provision of trading rights in lieu of membership
 cards of members of a recognised Stock Exchange; (ii) the restrictions on voting rights; (iii) the transfer of property, business, assets, Page 105 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 rights, liabilities, recognitions, contracts of the
 recognised Stock Exchange, legal proceedings by,
 or against, the recognised Stock Exchange, whether
 in the name of the recognised Stock Exchange or
 any trustee or otherwise and any permission given
 to, or by, the recognised Stock Exchange; (iv) the transfer of employees of a recognised Stock
 Exchange to another recognised Stock Exchange; (v) any other matter required for the purpose of, or
 in connection with, the corporatisation or
 demutualisation, as the case may be, of the
 recognised Stock Exchange;';]

 5 [6 [(gb)] "Securities Appellate Tribunal" means a
 Securities Appellate Tribunal established under sub-
 section (1) of section 15K of the Securities and
 Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992)] (h) 'securities' include- (i) shares, scrips stocks, bonds, debentures,
 debenture stock or other marketable securities of a
 like nature in or of any incorporated company or
 other body corporate; 7 [(ia) derivative; (ib) units or any other instrument issued by any Page 106 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 collective investment scheme to the investors in
 such schemes]

 10[(ic) security receipt as defined in clause (zg) of section 2 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of
 Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security
 Interest Act, 2002;]

 11[(id) units or any other such instrument issued to
 the investors under any mutual fund scheme;]

 12[(ie) any certificate or instrument (by whatever
 name called), issued to an investor by any issuer
 being a special purpose distinct entity which
 possesses any debt or receivable, including
 mortgage debt, assigned to such entity, and
 acknowledging beneficial interest of such investor
 in such debt or receiveable including mortgage
 debt, as the case may be;] (ii) Government securities; and (iii) rights or interests in securities;

 8 [(i) "spot delivery contract" means a contract which
 provides for,- (a) actual delivery of securities and the payment of
 a price therefore either on the same day as the
 date of the contract or on the next day, the actual Page 107 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 period taken for the despatch of the securities or
 the remittance of money therefore through the post
 being excluded from the computation of the period
 aforesaid if the parties to the contract do not reside
 in the same town or locality; (b) transfer of the securities by the depository from
 the account of a beneficial owner to the account of
 another beneficial owner when such securities are
 dealt with by a depository;]

 9 [(j) "Stock Exchange " means-- (a) any body of individuals, whether incorporated or
 not, constituted before corporatisation and
 demutualisation under sections 4A and 4B, or (b) a body corporate incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 whether under a scheme of
 corporatisation and demutualisation or otherwise,

 for the purpose of assisting, regulating or controlling the
 business of buying, selling or dealing in securities;'.] Section 3 - Application for recognition of Stock Exchanges

 (1) Any Stock Exchange, which is desirous of being
 recognised for the purposes of this Act, may make an
 application in the prescribed manner to the Central
 Government. Page 108 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 (2) Every application under sub-section (1) shall contain
 such particulars as may be prescribed, and shall be
 accompanied by a copy of the bye-laws of the Stock
 Exchange for the regulation and control of contracts and
 also a copy of the rules relating in general to the
 constitution of the Stock Exchange, and in particular, to (a) the governing body of such Stock Exchange, its
 constitution and powers of management and the
 manner in which the business is to be transacted; (b) the powers and duties of the office bearers of the
 Stock Exchange; (c) the admission into the Stock Exchange of various
 classes of members, the qualifications for
 memberships, and the exclusion, suspension,
 expulsion and re-admission of members there from or
 therein to; (d) the procedure for the registration of partnerships
 as members of the Stock Exchange in cases where the
 rules provide for such membership; and the
 nomination and appointment of authorised
 representatives and clerks. Section 4 - Grant of recognition to Stock Exchanges

 (1) If the Central Government is satisfied, after making
 such inquiry as may be necessary in this behalf and after Page 109 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

obtaining such to further information, if any, as it may
require, (a) that the rules and bye-laws of a Stock Exchange
 applying for registration are in conformity with such
 conditions as may be prescribed with a view to ensure
 fair dealing and to protect investors; (b) that the Stock Exchange is willing to comply with
 any other conditions (including conditions as to the
 number of members) which the Central Government,
 after consultation with the governing body of the
 Stock Exchange and having regard to the area served
 by the Stock Exchange and its standing and the nature
 of the securities dealt with by its, may impose for the
 purpose of carrying out the objects of this Act; and (c) that it would be in the interest of the trade and also
 in the public interest to grant recognition to the Stock
 Exchange; it may grant recognition to the Stock Exchange subject to
the conditions imposed upon it as aforesaid and in such
form as may be prescribed. (2) The conditions which the Central Government may
prescribe under clause (a) of sub-section (1) for the grant
of recognition to the Stock Exchanges may include,
among other matters, conditions relating to, Page 110 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT (i) the qualifications for membership of Stock
 Exchanges; (ii) the manner in which contracts shall be entered into
 and enforced as between members; (iii) the representation of the Central Government on
 each of the Stock Exchanges by such number of
 persons not exceeding three as the Central
 Government may nominate in this behalf; and (iv) the maintenance of accounts of members and
 their audit by Chartered accountants wherever such
 audit is required by the Central Government.

(3) Every grant of recognition to a Stock Exchange under
this section shall be published in the Gazette of India and
also in the Official Gazette of the State in which the
principal office of the Stock Exchange is situate, and such
recognition shall have effect as from the date of its
publication in the Gazette of India. (4) No application for the grant of recognition shall be
refused except after giving an opportunity to the Stock
Exchange concerned to be heard in the matter; and the
reasons for such refusal shall be communicated to the
Stock Exchange in writing. (5) No rules of a recognised Stock Exchange relating to
any of the matters specified in sub-section (2) of section Page 111 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 3 shall be amended except with the approval of the
 Central Government. Section 4A - Corporatisation and demutualisation of Stock
Exchanges

1[4A. Corporatisation and demutualisation of Stock
Exchanges.- On and from the appointed date, all recognised Stock
 Exchanges (if not corporatised and demutualised before
 the appointed date) shall be corporatised and
 demutualised in accordance with the provisions
 contained in Section 4B: Provided that no such withdrawal shall affect the
 validity of any contract entered into or made before
 the date of the notification, and the Central
 Government may, after consultation with the Stock
 Exchange, make such provision as it deems fit in the
 notification of withdrawal or in any subsequent
 notification similarly published for the due
 performance of any contracts outstanding on that
 date. 2[(2) Where the recognised Stock Exchange has not been
corporatised or demutualised or it fails to submit the
scheme referred to in sub-Section (1) of Section 4B within
the specified time therefor or the scheme has been
rejected by the Securities and Exchange Board of India
under sub-Section (5) of Section 4B, the recognition
granted to such Stock Exchange under Section 4 , shall,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
this Act, stand withdrawn and the Central Government
shall publish, by notification in the Official Gazette, such
withdrawal of recognition: ( i) to any Stock Exchange or clearing corporation or
 agency or person referred to in clause ( b) or any Page 118 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 person or class of persons associated with the
 securities market; or

 ( ii) to any company whose securities are listed or
 proposed to be listed in a recognised Stock Exchange,

 as may be appropriate in the interests of investors in
 securities and the securities market.".]

1 [29A. power to delegate
 The Central Government may, by order published in the
 Official Gazette, direct that the powers (except the power
 under section 30 ) exercisable by it under any provision of
 this Act shall, in relation to such matters and subject to
 such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the order,
 be exercisable also by the Securities and Exchange
 Board of India or the Reserve Bank of India constituted
 under section 3 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.]
___________________________ 1. Substituted by the Securities Laws (Amendment) Act,
 1999 w.e.f. 22.02.2000. Prior to its substitution, section
 29A read as under: 1[(h) the requirements which shall be complied with-- (A) by public companies for the purpose of getting
 their securities listed on any Stock Exchange;

 (B) by collective investment scheme for the
 purpose of getting their units listed on any Stock
 Exchange]

 2[(ha) *******]

 3["(ha) the grounds on which the securities of a
 company may be delisted from any recognised Stock Page 121 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 Exchange under sub-Section (1) of Section 21A;

 (hb) the form in which an appeal may be filed before
 the Securities Appellate Tribunal under sub-Section (2)
 of Section 21A and the fees payable in respect of such
 appeal; (hc) the form in which an appeal may be filed before
 the Securities Appellate Tribunal under Section 22A
 and the fees payable in respect of such appeal;

 (hd) the manner of inquiry under sub-Section (1) of
 Section 23-I; (he) the form in which an appeal may be filed before
 the Securities Appellate Tribunal under Section 23L
 and the fees payable in respect of such appeal;"] (i) any other matter which is to be or may be
 prescribed. 4(3)" Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as
soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of
thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in
two or more successive sessions, and if, before the
expiry of the session immediately following the session or
the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in
making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree
that the rule should not be made, the rule shall Page 122 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of
 no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such
 modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
 the validity of anything previously done under that rule." Section 31 - Power of Securities and Exchange Board of India
to make regulations

1[31.Power of Securities and Exchange Board of India to make
regulations. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in section 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
 Act, 1992, the Securities and Exchange Board of India,
 may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
 regulations consistent with the provisions of this Act and
 the rules made thereunder to carry out the purposes of
 this Act. 2[(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality
 of the foregoing power, such regulations may provide for
 all or any of the following matters, namely: -- (a) the manner, in which at least fifty-one per cent, of
 equity share capital of a recognised Stock Exchange is
 held within twelve months from the date of publication
 of the order under sub-section (7) of section 4B by the
 public other than the shareholders having trading
 rights under sub-section (8) of that section; Page 123 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT (b) the eligibility criteria and other requirements under
 section 17A.]

(3) Every regulation made under this Act shall be laid, as
soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament, while it is in session for a total period of thirty
days which may be comprised in one session or in two or
more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the
session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in
making any modification in the regulation or both Houses
agree that the regulation should not be made, the
regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that regulation.". Securities and Exchange Board of India Act , 1992 11. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, it shall be the
duty of the Board to protect the interests of investors in
securities and to promote the development of, and to
regulate the securities market, by such measures as it
thinks fit. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
provisions, the measures referred to therein may provide
for - Page 124 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT (a) regulating the business in Stock Exchanges and
 any other securities markets; [(4) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-
sections (1), (2), (2A) and (3) and section 11B , the Board
may, by an order, for reasons to be recorded in writing, in
the interests of investors or securities market, take any
of the following measures, either pending investigation or
inquiry or on completion of such investigation or inquiry,
namely:- or (b) to any company in respect of matters specified Page 127 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 in section 11A , as may be appropriate in the
 interests of investors in securities and the securities
 market] 29.(1) The Central Government may, by notification,
make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.

(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality
of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or
any of the following matters, namely:- section (1) of section 5 ; (b) the additional functions that may be performed
 by the Board under section 11 ; (c)[****] (d) the manner in which the accounts of the Board
 shall be maintained under section 15 ; (da) the manner of inquiry under sub-section (1) of
 section 15-I; (db) the salaries and allowances and other terms
 and conditions of service of the [Presiding Officers,
 Members] and other officers and employees of the
 Securities Appellate Tribunal under section 15-O and sub-section (3) of section 15S ; Page 128 of 208 Officers, or other Members] of the Securities
 Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (3) of section
 15Q ; (dd) the form in which an appeal may be filed
 before the Securities Appellate Tribunal under section 15 -T and the fees payable in respect of
 such appeal;] (e) the form and the manner in which returns and
 report to be made to the Central Government under section 18 ; (f) any other matter which is to be, or may be,
 prescribed, or in respect of which provision is to be,
 or may be, made by rules. Power to make regulations. 30. (1) The Board may, [***] by notification, make
regulations consistent with this Act and the rules made
thereunder to carry out the purposes of this Act.

(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality
of the foregoing power, such regulations may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely:- section (2) of section 9 ; (c) the matters relating to issue of capital, transfer
 of securities and other matters incidental thereto
 and the manner in which such matters shall be
 disclosed by the companies under section 11A ; (d) the conditions subject to which certificate of
 registration is to be issued, the amount of fee to be
 paid for certificate of registration and the manner of
 suspension or cancellation of certificate of
 registration under section 12 .]

Rules and regulations to be laid before Parliament. 31. Every rule and every regulation made under this Act
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before
each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following
the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or
regulation or both Houses agree that the rule or
regulation should not be made, the rule or regulation Page 130 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or
 be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that
 any such modification or annulment shall be without
 prejudice to the validity of anything previously done
 under that rule or regulation. Application of other laws not barred. 32. The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and
 not in derogation of, the provisions of any other law for
 the time being in force." VII. Object of establishment of the SEBI : Section 3 of the Act provides for establishment of a Board

namely the "Securities and Exchange Board of India", for the

purposes of the Act. The purposes of the Act according to its

preamble are to "provide for the establishment of a Board to

protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote

the development of, and to regulate, the securities market and

for matters connected there with or incidental thereto" Accordingly, several amendments were made to the Act,

most of them intended to strengthen the Respondent's role as

protector of investors' interest. "In order to enable the Board to

function more effectively", the Board was given power to issue

directions. It is needless to say that investors by and large are

often at the receiving end in the hands of certain unscrupulous

market players. There was no focussed attention to protect

their interests in the securities market. Their plight was in no

way different from the plight of consumers. In view of the

comparable position in which the investors and the consumers Page 133 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

are placed, it is felt appropriate to cite the following

observations made by the Supreme Court in Lucknow

Development Authority Vs. M.K.Gupta ((1994) SCC 243): The aforenoted observations, in our opinion, are

applicable with all force to the case at hand. The Apex Court in the said decision had also Provided

guidance for the benefit of the Courts in interpreting such a

beneficial legislation: Since the SEBI Act is also a beneficial

legislation the approach of the courts in interpreting its

provisions should not be different. Following extract from the

decision provides the guidance: Thus, from the above it is clear that the Securities and

Exchange Board of India (SEBI) was established in 1988

through a Government Resolution to promote orderly and

healthy growth of the securities market and for investors

protection. The SEBI has been monitoring the activities of the

Stock Exchanges, mutual funds, merchant bankers, etc. to

achieve this goals. It is an Act to provide for the establishment

of the Board to protect the interests of the investors in

securities and to promote the development and to regulate the

securities market and for matters connected therewith or

incidental thereto. The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 is an Act

to prevent undesirable transactions in securities by regulating

the business of dealing therein by providing for certain other

matters connected therewith. Page 136 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 At this stage, it may not be out of place to make a

mention of the three notifications issued by the Ministry of

Finance. They are as under : [F. No.1(27)SE/92]
 KAMAL PANDE, Jt.Secy." section (2) of section 28 of the Act shall also be exercisable by
the Securities and Exchange Board of India. [F. No.1/57/SE/93]
 P.J. NAYAK, Jt.Secy." Thus, from the above, it is clear that Section 29A of the

Act, 1956 provides for delegation of powers exercisable by the

Central Government to the SEBI by an order of the Central

Government, in relation to such matters and subject to such

conditions as may be specified in the order. In terms of the

notifications referred to above , the SEBI was invested with the

power to grant/withdraw the recognition to a Stock Exchange

including the powers exercisable under the provisions of the

SCRA referred to in the notifications. We now propose to look into few decisions of the

Supreme Court, wherein the power of the SEBI and the Page 139 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

legislative intent for enacting the SEBI Act has been explained. In Securities and Exchange Board of India v. Ajay

Agarwal , AIR 2010 SC 3466, the Supreme Court considered the

question, whether Section 11B of the Securities and Exchange

Board of India Act could be invoked by the Chairman of the

SEBI in conjunction with Sections 4(3) and 11 for restraining

the respondent of that case from associating with any

corporate body in accessing the securities market and

prohibiting him from buying, selling or dealing in securities.

While considering the said question, the Supreme Court made

the following observations, which are worth noting : In Bhavesh D.Parish and others v. Union of India and

another, 2005(5) SCC 471, the issue before the Supreme Court

was the validity of Section 9 of the Reserve Bank of India Act,

on the ground that the said provision was violative of Articles Page 145 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India. While considering

the validity, the Supreme Court made the following

observations in paras 22, 23 and 24, which are worth noting : 23. It was further submitted that the amendments were
introduced after taking into account the recommendations of
successive committees, appointed by the Bank and
Government of India, which had studied the functioning of
these bodies. The question of restricting such financial activity
by unincorporated bodies, is a question of economic policy as
it involves regulation of economic activities by different
constituents. In such matters of economic policy, this Honble
Court does not interfere with the decision of the expert bodies
which have examined the matter. The following observations
of this Honble Court made in R.K. Garg Vs,. Union of India,
1982 (1) SCR 947 at 969 are appropriate: The court must always remember that legislation is
 directed to practical problems, that the economic
 mechanism is highly sensitive and complex, that
 many problems are singular and contingent, that
 laws are not abstract propositions and do not relate
 to obstract units and are not to be measured by
 abstract symmetry that exact wisdom and nice
 adaptation of remedy are not always possible and
 that judgement is largely a prophecy based on
 meager and uninterrupted experience. Every Page 148 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 legislation particularly in economic matters is
 essentially empiric and it is based on
 experimentation or what one may call trial and error
 method and therefore it cannot provide for all
 possible situations or anticipate all possible abuses. There may be crudities and inequities in
 complicated experimental economic legislation but
 on that account alone it cannot be struck down as
 invalid." At page 988 it is further held: 24. Even if these restrictions incorporated in the Act
amount to a total prohibition, such action was necessary
in the public interest as the mushroom growth of
unincorporated bodies accepting deposits had gone
beyond control calling for restriction of the nature
imposed by the amended Section 45-S. In the case of Page 149 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 Reserve Bank of India Vs. Peerless General Finance and
 Investment Co. Ltd. and others (1987) 61 Company
 Cases 663, this Honble Court took judicial notice of and
 expressed concern about the mushroom growth of such
 bodies by referring to the advertisements issued by
 various such bodies in the press. While upholding the
 constitutional validity of the Prize Chits and Money
 Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 ( Srinivasa
 Enterprises Vs. Union of India , 1980 (4) SCC 507) this
 Honble Court pointed out that for saving the poor and
 unwary public from the unscrupulous racketeers who
 glamourise and prey upon the gambling instinct to get
 rich through prizes, banning was necessary. The court
 observed how can you save moth from the fire except by
 putting out the fatal fire ? On the same analogy for
 safeguarding or protecting the public from the loss which
 was likely to be caused to them by the failure of
 unincorporated bodies promising high returns, it was
 necessary to prohibit unincorporated bodies from
 accepting deposits from the public. Further, as observed
 by this Court in Srinivas Enterprises case (supra) it is a
 constitutional truism that restrictions in extreme cases
 should be pushed to the point of prohibition, if any lesser
 strategy will not achieve the purpose." In Madhubhai Amathalal Gandhi v. Union of India , AIR

1961 SC 21, the challenge before the Supreme Court was a

notification dated 31st August 1957 recognising the Stock

Exchange, Bombay, under Section 4 of the Securities Contracts Page 150 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

(Regulation) Act, 1956. The Supreme Court noted briefly while

examining the legality and validity of the notification how a

Stock Exchange works and how it is controlled or regulated by

the State. The following observations made by the Supreme

Court are worth noting : Rule 54 is to the following effect: Appendix B gives the nomination forms Nos.1 and 2 to be
filled by a member or a legal representative, as the case
may be, under R.11 (a) and (b). Now it would be
convenient to read Rr. 20 and 21. They are as follows: In the case of Securities and Exchange Board of India v.

Alka Synthetics Ltd. , 1999(1) GLR 275, a Division Bench of this

Court has observed as under : Thus, from the aforesaid decisions, it is amply clear that

under Section 11 of the SEBI Act, the SEBI has to protect the

interest of the investors in securities and to regulate the

securities market by such measures as it thinks fit and such

measures may be for any or all of the matters provided in sub-

section (2) of Section 11 , and in due discharge of its duties

cast upon the SEBI as part of its statutory function, it has been Page 162 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

invested with the powers to issue directions under Section 11B .

The SEBI is invested with the statutory powers to regulate the

securities market with the object of ensuring investors'

protection, orderly and healthy growth of securities market so

as to make the SEBI's control over the capital market to be

effective and meaningful. The SEBI has to regulate speculative

market, and in case of speculative market, varied situations

may arise and looking into the exigencies and requirements, it

has been entrusted with the duties and functions to take such

measures as it thinks fit. Section 11B of the SEBI Act is an

enabling provision enacted to empower the SEBI Board to

regulate securities market in order to protect the interest of

the investors. Such an enabling provision must be so construed

as to subserve the purpose for which it has been enacted. The

SEBI is charged with the duty to protect the public and the

integrity of the capital market, and as a regulator, it has

powers to issue the circular impugned in this petition in public

interest including the regulations, and the interference at the

end of the court in such type of matters should be minimal

unless it is established that the same is in gross violation of

any of the provisions of law or the Constitution of India. It appears from the materials on record that the SEBI Page 163 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

considered various reports of the experts on the issue and the

impugned circular and the regulations are based on the

findings recorded in the report of the experts. We shall now look into the Report of the Group on

Corporatisation and Demutualisation of Stock Exchanges

headed by Justice M.H.Kania, Former Chief Justice of India,

dated 30th January 2003 : 4.2 It is thus clear that BSE, ASE and Indore Stock
Exchange will have to be both corporatised and
demutualised, while of the balance 20 Stock Exchanges,
18 Stock Exchanges which are already corporate entities,
will only have to be demutualised. Two Stock Exchanges,
NSE and OTCEI, are not only corporatised but also
demutualised with segregation of ownership and trading
rights of members. Further, NSEIL is a for-profit company
and the Board of NSEIL comprises of representatives of
shareholders, (some of whom have 100% stock broking
subsidiaries) and outside non-shareholder directors. But
even these two Stock Exchanges may if necessary, have
to undergo changes in organizational structure
consequential to the recommendations of the Group so
that a common structural model is adopted by the all the
Stock Exchanges. 4.3 The present status as above along with the details of
the assets and liabilities of some major Stock Exchanges
in India is enclosed in (Annexure 5A and 5B)."

"5.7 Demutualisation involves the segregation of
members' right into distinct segments, viz. ownership
rights and trading rights. It changes the relationship
between members and the Stock Exchange. Members
while retaining their trading rights acquire ownership Page 165 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

rights in the Stock Exchange, which have a market value,
and they also acquire the benefits of limited liability. The
shareholders in a corporatised Stock Exchange may be a
diverse group, as members may decide to retain their
shares or to sell them. Demutualisation however, does
not insulate them from competition. A Stock Exchange
whose management does not effectively work to
maintain its position in the market may soon become a
take-over target." VIII. Legality and validity of the impugned
circular : "6. Although the Constitution does not contain any
 generic definition of law, it defines "law" for
 purposes of Article 13 to include "any Ordinance,
 order, bye-law, rule, regulation, notification, custom
 or usage having in the territory of India the force of
 law". Article 366(10) of the Constitution also defines
 the expression "existing law" to mean "any law,
 Ordinance, Order, bye-law, rule or regulation passed
 or made before the commencement of this
 Constitution by any legislature authority or person Page 177 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 having power to make such law, Ordinance, order,
 bye- law, rule or regulation". Another definition
 which is relevant here is the definition of the
 expression "Indian law" in the General Clauses Act,
 1897 . Section 3(29) of this Act defines "Indian Law" The issue as regards the statutory force of a circular has

been considered by the Supreme Court in connection with the

binding nature of the Reserve Bank of India guidelines in the

following two decisions : While examining the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act

and the Banking Regulation Act in B.O.I. Finance Ltd. (supra),

the Supreme Court specifically dealt with the provisions of

Section 36(1)(a) which empowers the RBI to auction or prohibit

the banking companies generally or any banking company in

particular against entering into any particular transaction and

generally to give advice to any banking companies, and held

that a circular issued by the RBI which stated that the banks Page 179 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

were advised to follow the Guidelines given thereunder, the

word 'advised' cannot be read in isolation and the said

document was meant to be binding on the banking companies. In the case of Central Bank of India (supra), the Supreme

Court observed that the RBI is a prime banking institution of

the country entrusted with a supervisory role over banking and

conferred with the authority of issuing binding directions,

having statutory force, in the interest of public in general and

preventing banking affairs from deterioration and prejudice as

also to secure the proper management of any banking

company generally. It was further observed as below : Law is defined in that Act in s. 2(d) as follows: The memorandum of Central Government dated 11th
May, 1957 was an approval in terms of the proviso to
sub-section (7) of section 115 of the States
Reorganisation Act. It is, therefore, an order or other
instrument having the force of the law for the purposes of
the definition of 'law'. That circular had certainly the
force of law in the whole of the State of Bombay and as s.
87 provides that law would continue to be in force within
the territories of the State of Bombay immediately before
the appointed day which, included the territories of the
State of Maharashtra as well as the State of Gujarat the
reference to the State Governments in the circular would
include reference to the Governments of the State or
Maharashtra and the State of Gujarat. It should,
therefore, be held that even in terms of the circular of
the Central Government dated 11th May, 1957 the Page 183 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 Gujarat Government was competent to make the rules
 which they had made in 1962. The argument on behalf of
 the petitioners therefore that no approval could have
 been, given in terms of section 87 of the Bombay
 Reorganisation Act by a circular issued even in 1957
 before that Act was passed has no force." A Division Bench of the Bombay High Court, in the case of Stock Exchange, Mumbai v. Vinay Bubna and others , AIR 1999

Bombay 266, had also the occasion to consider such issue,

more particularly, the interpretation of the word 'enactment'.

We quote the following observations made in paras 37, 38 and

39 : Thus, from the above, we are of the view that the circular

dated 30th May 2012 passed by the SEBI in exercise of its

powers under Sections 11(1) and 11(2)(j) of the SEBI Act, 1992

read with Section 5 of the SCRA Act, 1956, which is the subject

matter of challenge in this petition, could be termed as a

statutory circular having a force of law and binding to all the

Stock Exchanges in the country. IX. Legality and validity of the regulations : Page 186 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 The following provisions of the regulations are challenged

by the petitioners : We are not impressed even by this submission of

Mr.Thakore. The schemes approved by the SEBI under Section

4(B) of the SCRA Act, 1956, do not restrain or denude the SEBI

of the power to regulate the Stock Exchanges through other

measures including by way of subordinate legislation or

issuance of regulatory direction. Mr.Shelat, the learned

advocate appearing for the SEBI, is justified in submitting that

the power to regulate the Governing Board of Stock Exchanges

does not solely flow from Section 4(B) of the Act, 1956. Such

an interpretation would render all other provisions of the SCRA

as well as the SEBI Act otiose. It is too much to say that a

scheme once framed under Section 4(B) would be sacrosanct

for all times to come without leaving any scope for the SEBI as

a regulator to review the regulatory structure. In our opinion,

the interpretation put forward on behalf of the petitioners Page 189 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

would defeat the purpose of regulatory powers conferred on

the SEBI by the SCRA and the SEBI Act. Mr.Shelat is right in

submitting that it is an on-going process. The proviso under

sub-section (1) of Section 4B of the SCRA Act provides that

exchanges, which were already corporatised and

demutualised, do not have to submit a scheme for approval by

the SEBI. If the submission of Mr.Thakore is accepted, it would

mean that the SEBI would be powerless to further regulate

those exchanges as regards its ownership and governance

structure. While granting sanction under Section 4(B)(6) and 4(B)(7) , it is specifically provided that sanction is conditional

reserving right to amend, alter or modifying the Scheme is in

the public interest and in furtherance of the objects of the

Corporatisation and Demutualisation of the Stock Exchanges.

Therefore, in view of clause (8) of the order, the SEBI is

competent to impose further condition as regards voting rights

of the Trading Members and deny voting rights to the Trading

Members and deny right to vote for electing Shareholders'

Director. The Scheme is incorporated in the Article of

Association of the Stock Exchange. The Article of Association

are rules within the meaning of Section 2(g) of the SCR Act,

1956. Under Section 7(A) recognized Stock Exchange has

enabling power restricting voting rights (Articles of Page 190 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

Association). Under Section 8 , the SEBI has power to direct

modification of rules (Articles of Association). Under Section

12A of the Act, the SEBI can issue direction to secure proper

management of the Stock Exchange. Therefore, there is ample

power under the Act to make regulation. The Vadodara Stock

Exchange is granted renewal every year, and while granting

renewal, it is competent for the SEBI to provide further

condition from time to time under Section 4 of the SCR Act

read with rule 6 of 1957 Rules, and while seeking recognition,

the Stock Exchange is required to give an undertaking to

comply with other conditions and terms as may be imposed. The scope of regulation 11(1) is sufficiently wide to meet

situations, for which measures are not specifically provided in

the regulation. Merely because in section 11(2) it is provided

that "the measures referred to therein may provide for" cannot

be taken to mean that such measures have to be laid down in advance. It is a matter of common knowledge that the SEBI

has to regulate a speculative market and in case of speculative

market varied situations may arise and all such exigencies and

situations cannot be contemplated in advance and, therefore,

looking to the exigencies and the requirement, it has been

entrusted with the duty and function to take such measures as Page 191 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

it thinks fit. Instead of general principles of law, in such cases

we have to consider the matter on first principle. The first

principle is that the provisions of an Act have to be given a

meaning so as to advance the object sought to be achieved by

that Act. The duty and function had been entrusted to take

such measures as it thinks fit and in order to discharge this

duty the power is vested under section 11B . Thus, there is an

authority under law to take the measures and merely because

the measures have not been laid down in advance and

published. It cannot be said that SEBI had no other authority

under law to issue the directions, as contained in the

impugned circular. The authority has been given under the law

to take appropriate measures as it thinks fit and that by itself

is sufficient to cloth the SEBI with the authority of law. Section 11 and Section 11B are interconnected and

coextensive as both these sections are mainly focused on

investor protection. The SEBI has been in no uncertain terms

mandated to protect the interests of investors in securities by

such measures as it thinks fit, subject to the provisions of the

Act. The expression 'measure' has not been defined in the Act.

So we have to go by its generally understood meaning.

According to Corpus Juris Secundum measure means "anything Page 192 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

desired or done with a view to the accomplishment of a

purpose, a plan or course of action intended to obtain some

object, any course of action proposed or adopted by a

Government". If the SEBI's powers to modify the scheme for individual

Stock Exchanges under Section 4(B) is recognised, then as a

measure of necessary corollary considering the SEBI's broad

regulatory powers under the Act, it could be said that the SEBI

also has power with regard to ownership and governance of all

Stock Exchanges in general. Such power has been exercised

by way of framing of the regulations. Such aspects of the

ownership and governance that needed to be clarified by way

of circulars, was done so, and accordingly, the impugned

circular dated 13th December 2013 was issued. It appears from the materials on record that the SECC

Regulations as well as the impugned Exit Circular dated 30 th

May 2012 were issued by the SEBI after due consultation with

all the stakeholders including the recognized Stock Exchanges

although there is no such statutory mandate for the SEBI to

make such consultations before framing the regulations or Page 193 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

issuing the circulars. The VSEL also had submitted its views on

the Bimal Jalan Committee Report and the SMAC Committee

decisions which were the basis on which the SECC Regulations

and the Exit Circular were framed. There is one another important aspect which needs to be

noted and that is the Parliament has not treated the Stock

Exchanges like any other public limited companies which are

ordinarily governed in such matters exclusively by the

provisions of the Companies Act . The Parliament has made

special provisions for regulating the formation of the Stock

Exchanges and also for their governance including the

constitution of the Governing Board of the Stock Exchange. If

the Stock Exchange were intended by the Parliament to be

treated like any other public limited company, there was no

need for the Parliament to make a special enactment like the Securities Act . Such is the reason why there is no violation of

the Companies Act as contended. Security Contract Regulation Act and the SEBI Act are

special Acts and have an overriding effect over some of the

provisions of the Companies Act . Section 616D of the

Companies Act provides that the Companies Act shall apply to Page 194 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

any other company governed by the special Act except insofar

as the said provisions are inconsistent with the provisions of

such special Act. The SCR Act provides overriding effect to the

following provisions : The above takes us to consider the submission canvassed

on behalf of the petitioners as regards the justification and the

rationale in imposing the condition of turnover of Rs.1000

crore in the circular. According to the petitioners, there is no

valid reason or rationale behind the regulations and the

circulars. On the contrary, by imposing such a harsh condition,

according to the petitioners, it virtually amounts to

infringement of the right to trade as enshrined under Article

19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India. We are not impressed even by this submission canvassed

on behalf of the petitioners for the simple reason that there is

no prohibition in the circular which prevents the petitioners

from carrying on trade and earn livelihood as traders or

brokers. However, we find it very difficult to accept the

submissions of the petitioners that they have a fundamental

right under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India to trade

at a particular Stock Exchange only and that is the Vadodara Page 196 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

Stock Exchange. So far as the imposition of the condition of turnover of

Rs.1000 crore is concerned, we have made it very clear that it

is not for this Court to comment on the economic policy of the

SEBI. In M/s. Shri Sitaram Sugar Co. Ltd. v. Union of India , AIR

1990 SC 1277, the Supreme Court observed in para 57 as

under:- In P.T.R. Exports (Madras) Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India , AIR

1996 SC 3461, the Supreme Court observed in paras 3 and 5

as under :- Page 197 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

 "The power to lay policy by executive decision or by
 legislation includes power to withdraw the same unless in
 the former case, it is by mala fide exercise of power or
 the decision or action taken is in abuse of power. The
 doctrine of legitimate expectation plays no role when the
 appropriate authority is empowered to take a decision by
 an executive policy or under law. The Court leaves the
 authority to decide its full range of choice within the
 executive or legislative power. In matters of economic
 policy, it is a settled law that the Court gives a large
 leeway to the executive and the legislature. ...............
 Government would take diverse factors for formulating
 the policy....... in the overall larger interest of the
 economy of the country. It is, therefore, by exercise of
 the power given to the executive or as the case may be,
 the legislature is at liberty to evolve such policies. A prior
 decision would not bind the Government for all times to
 come. When the Government is satisfied that change in
 the policy was necessary in the public interest, it would
 be entitled to revise the policy and lay down new policy.
 The Court, therefore, would prefer to allow free play to
 the Government to evolve fiscal policy in the public
 interest and to act upon the same." In our opinion there should be judicial restraint in fiscal

and economic regulatory measures. The State should not be

hampered by the Court in such measures unless they are

clearly illegal or unconstitutional. All administrative decisions

in the economic and social spheres are essentially ad hoc and Page 198 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

experimental. Since economic matters are extremely

complicated, this inevitably entails special treatment for

distinct social phenomena. The State must therefore be left

with wide latitude in devising ways and means of imposing

fiscal or regulatory measures, and the Court should not, unless

compelled by the statute or by the Constitution, encroach into

this field. We should not be understood to have meant that the

judiciary should never interfere with administrative decisions.

However, such interference should be only within the narrow

limits e.g. when there is clear violation of the statute or a

constitutional provision, or there is arbitrariness in the

Wednesbury sense. It is the administrators and legislators who

are entitled to frame policies and take such administrative

decisions as they think necessary in the public interest. The

Court should not ordinarily interfere with policy decisions,

unless clearly illegal. If, for non-fulfillment of the conditions imposed by the

SEBI in its circular, the VSEL gets derecognized, then it cannot

be said that with such derecognition the fundamental right of

the petitioners to trade in shares at the VSEL would get

infringed under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India. The

fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 19 of the Page 199 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

Constitution of India are not absolute but the same are subject

to reasonable restrictions to be imposed against the enjoyment

of such rights. Such reasonable restrictions seek to strike a

balance between the freedom guaranteed by any of the

clauses under Article 19(1) and the social control permitted by

the clauses (2) to (6) under Article 19 of the Constitution of

India. As held by the Supreme Court in Krishnan Kakkanth v.

Government of Kerala and others , AIR 1997 SC 128, that the

reasonableness of restriction is to be determined in an

objective manner and from the stand point of the interests of

general public and not from the stand point of the interests of

the persons upon whom the restrictions are imposed or upon

abstract consideration. A restriction cannot be said to be

unreasonable merely because in a given case, like in the

present case, it operates harshly. In determining the

infringement of the right guaranteed under Article 19(1) of the

Constitution of India, the nature of right alleged to have been

infringed, the underlying purpose of the restriction imposed,

the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied

thereby, the disproportion of the imposition, the prevailing

conditions at the time, enter into judicial verdict. Therefore,

although a citizen has a fundamental right to carry on a trade

or business, yet he has no fundamental right to insist upon the Page 200 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

State that he will carry on trade or business only at the

Vadodara Stock Exchange. In the aforesaid context, we may quote the observations

of the Supreme Court as contained in paras 32 and 34 of Krishnan Kakkanth (supra) as under : Such contention of Mr.Thakore flows from the provision of Section 4(1)(b) . We are afraid, we are not impressed by such

submission of Mr.Thakore as this issue is no longer res integra

after the pronouncement of the decision of the Supreme Court

in the case of Madhubhai Amathalal Gandhi (supra). In the case before the Supreme Court, condition 2(i)(a)

was imposed, which provided that the members of the Indian

Stock Exchange Limited, Bombay, would be entitled to apply

for membership of the Stock Exchange, Bombay, provided they Page 203 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

fulfill or comply with certain terms and conditions. The

contention before the Supreme Court was that condition 2(i)(a)

enabled only the active members of the Indian Stock Exchange

Limited to apply for membership of the Stock Exchange,

Bombay, and such condition could be imposed only if it

amounts to a qualification of membership within the meaning

of sub-section (2) of Section 4 . Repelling such argument, the

Supreme Court observed the following : Therefore, once it is found that the condition is, germane

to the recognition of the Stock Exchange, then such a condition

would fall within the meaning of 'any other conditions' in

Clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the Act. Mr.Thakore further submitted that on the plain reading of

Section 4B(6)(c), it suggests the number of Directors of the

share brokers group. To put it in other words, it contemplates a

representation on the Governing Board. Section 4B(6)(c) of the

Act, 1956, empowers the SEBI while approving the scheme to Page 205 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

provide for the maximum number of representations of the

stock brokers of the recognised Stock Exchange to be

appointed on the Governing Board which shall not exceed one-

fourth of the total strength of the Governing Board. The words

'not exceeding' provided for the maximum number of stock

brokers to be appointed on the Governing Board. The minimum

could be zero also. Mr.Shelat, the learned senior advocate appearing for the

SEBI, in this context has placed reliance on the term 'not

exceeding' as explained in Stroud's Judicial Dictionary of Words

and Phrases, Sixth Edition. It reads as under : In our opinion, the words 'not exceeding' means that it

confers upon the SEBI the discretion to determine the number Page 206 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

of stock brokers on the Governing Board. However, in this

regard, Mr.Shelat submitted that the words 'not exceeding'

could also mean zero number of brokers on the Governing

Board. The denial of right to be on the Board of Management

and/or denial of right to vote for Shareholders' Director is

because with the experience gained it has been found by the

SEBI that there is total conflict of interest if the Trading

Members are on the Board of Directors. It was found that the

Trading Members were influencing the decision making

process. The importance of the net worth has been explained

in the Bimal Jalan Report. Even as a shareholder, the

petitioners' other rights are protected. The petitioners have a

right to attend the General Meeting, Special Meeting, and by

majority, can participate in the decision making policy at the

General Board. The Directors are not within the control of the

SEBI, as is alleged. The Public Interest Directors are

independent Directors and it is erroneous to suggest that only

the Trading Members can alone provide for greater turnover

and/or net worth. For the foregoing reasons, we do not find any merit in Page 207 of 208 C/SCA/17040/2012 CAV JUDGEMENT

any of the submissions canvassed on behalf of the petitioners.

We are of the view that the petitioners are not entitled to any

of the reliefs as prayed for in the petition. Resultantly, the

petition fails and is hereby dismissed. However, in the facts

and circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to

costs. The Writ Petition (PIL) No.211 of 2012 has been filed in

public interest by the Chairman of the Investor's Protection,

Education and Research Centre, challenging the same circular

which is the subject matter of adjudication in the main Special

Civil Application, which we have ordered to be dismissed. As

the issues raised in the writ petition filed in public interest are

the same and as we have dismissed the Special Civil

Application No.17040 of 2012, this writ petition also fails and is

hereby rejected. However, in the facts and circumstances of

the case, there shall be no order as to costs. (BHASKAR BHATTACHARYA, CJ.)

 (J.B.PARDIWALA, J.)
MOIN Page 208 of 208