Heard counsel for the parties. This application is filed under Section 438 of Cr.P.C.
for grant of anticipatory bail on behalf of applicant on the
assertion that the applicant has been named as accused in
Crime No.22/2014 registered with Police Station S.T.F.,
Bhopal - commonly known as VYAPAM examination
scam cases - for the offence punishable under Sections
419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B of IPC and Section
3(Gha) 1 , 2 / 4 of the M.P. Manyata Prapt Pariksha
Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicant is that he acted as a
middleman to arrange for impersonator to appear in the
examination conducted by VYAPAM in place of the
original candidate. The involvement of the applicant has
been noticed from the material already collected during the
investigation of Crime No.22/2014 registered with Police
Station S.T.F., Bhopal. Considering the above, question of granting
anticipatory bail to the applicant does not arise. The crime
in question is a serious offence and may end up in a
punishment upto life sentence and that the investigation
being complex one concerning case of impersonation
during the examination conducted by VYAPAM and more
so the Investigating Agency has been directed by the
Supreme Court to complete the investigation of all such
cases before 15th July, 2015, no indulgence can be shown
to the applicant. The applicant is free to appear before the
Investigating Agency and if the Investigating Officer is of
the opinion that the arrest and custodial interrogation of the
applicant is essential for continuing with the further
investigation of the case, the applicant will be free to apply
for regular bail. As it is not a case of no role played by the
applicant or that applicant has been falsely involved in the
commission of the alleged crime, question of granting
anticipatory bail does not arise. The efficacy of custodial interrogation has been
expounded by the Supreme Court in the case of CBI Vs.
Anil Sharma, AIR 1997 SC 3806. In paragraph 6 of the
said decision, the Apex Court has observed thus :- Taking overall view of the matter, in the interest of
 justice, we reject this anticipatory bail application filed by
 the applicant with liberty to the applicant to apply for
 regular bail in the event of his arrest.