1. The case of prosecution is based on the complaint made
by Rakesh Kumar (PW-1) dated 14.01.2007 wherein he stated
that he is running Sanjivani Studio at Ganesh Nagar, Pandav
Nagar. His cousin Kaushal Sharma was also working with him. On 06.01.2007, a person who disclosed his name as Rajnish,
came at his studio and asked for a camera on rent for shooting at
Bada Mandir, Hastina Pur, Meerut between 07.01.2007 to
12.01.2007. He gave the reference of Sh. Hari Darshan, Director,
G.M. Films, Meerut and gave his phone number. He also gave a
telephone number 09837236464 saying that the telephone
number was of his brother Shri Niwas. Believing him, as earlier
also Hari Darshan had taken his camera on rent, he sent Kaushal
Sharma with a camera on 06.01.2007 at about 7.00 pm with
Rajnish. Till 10.01.2007, complainant did not receive any call from
Kaushal Sharma. He rang on the number given by Rajnish. The
recipient of the call disclosed his name as Shri Niwas but stated
that does not know any Rajnish and Kaushal and also told that he
was speaking from Bullandshahar. On 12.01.2007, he contacted
Hari Darshan and enquired from him about Rajnish and Kaushal.
Hari Darshan asked him as to why he gave the camera to Rajnish.
Hari Darshan informed him that Rajnish was residing near Tej
Garhi Chauraha, Meerut. On 13.01.2007, complainant along with
his associates came to Meerut and contacted Hari Darshan
telephonically but he told that he was busy in shooting and asked
him to go to his office at Pallavi Towers, Meerut where his friends
will meet him. They then went to Pallavi Towers, Meerut and
requested the persons sitting there to help them. One of them
took them to Bada Mandir, Hastina Pur, Meerut, U.P. where they
came to know that no shooting took place over there. Thereafter, FIR No. 26/07 Page 2 of 31 they reached at Tej Garhi Chauraha in search of Rajnish and
Kaushal but found no clue. Suspecting that his cousin Kaushal
had been abducted by Rajnish and that Kaushal had been
murdered, a complaint was made by Rakesh Kumar to the police. 2. On the basis of the complaint, an FIR bearing No. 26/07
was registered under Section 365 IPC and investigation was
taken up by PW-17 Inspector Vijay Nagar. On 31.01.2007, IO
along with the police staff reached Village Shahpur Jat where he
met Ram Niwas who produced accused Ganesh. Complainant
Rakesh Kumar was called at P.S. Garh Mukteshwar. He came
and identified accused Ganesh as the same person who had
identified himself as Rajnish and had taken his brother Kaushal to
Meerut for shooting with video camera. Accused Ganesh was
arrested. On interrogation, he gave disclosure statement Exbt.
PW-6/C. Accused Ganesh led the police party to Village Amhera
near Meerut and there at his instance, accused Paramjeet and
Kamal were apprehended from the house of Dharam Pal. On
interrogation, accused Paramjeet and Kamal also gave disclosure
statements. All the three accused disclosed that they had
murdered Kaushal in the jungle of Amhera Sikhera and had
thrown the body in the field. On 02.02.2007, IO along with other
police staff and accused persons came at PS Incholi and it was
found that an FIR bearing No. 4/07 under Section 302 / 201 IPC FIR No. 26/07 Page 3 of 31 was registered at PS Incholi with regard to the recovery of a body.
IO collected the documents of case FIR No. 4/07. Thereafter,
they went in the jungle of Sikhera. Accused pointed out the place
of murder of Kaushal. Accused Paramjeet then got recovered a
camera stand kept in a jute bag from a slab from the house of his
in-laws at Village Mempur. Accused Ganesh got recovered a bag
containing the leads of camera, remote, tape of camera, black
pant, sky blue shirt, camel colour underwear and bed sheet from
the house of Ram Niwas at Shahpur Jat. 3. On 22.03.2007, a video camera was received by the IO
at the police station through courier. The camera was seized. TIP
of case property was conducted which was identified by the
complainant. On completion of investigation, police filed charge
sheet against accused under Section 365 / 419 / 392 / 302 / 201 / 120-B / 34 IPC. 4. After compliance of Section 207 Cr. PC, the case was
committed to Sessions Court. Vide orders dated 25.10.2007
passed by my learned predecessor, accused Kamal Singh was
discharged while charge under Section 120- B/365/419/392/302/201/34 IPC was framed against accused
Ganesh. Separate charge under Section 120-B / 392 / 302 / 201 / 34 IPC was framed against accused Ganesh Kumar. Both accused FIR No. 26/07 Page 4 of 31 pleaded not guilty. 5. In order to prove its case, prosecution examined 17
witnesses. PW-1 is Rakesh Kumar. He is the complainant. He
proved his complaint as Exbt. PW-1/A. PW-2 is HC Har Prasad,
Duty Officer. He proved the FIR Exbt. PW-2/A. Inadvertently, he
was again examined as PW-5. PW-3 is Dr. Vikram Singh. He had
conducted the postmortem on the body of the deceased. He
proved the postmortem report Exbt. PW-3/A. PW-4 is Rajender
Kumar. The dead body of Kaushal was recovered from his
sugarcane field at village Sikhera. He proved the Panchnama
prepared by the police Exbt. PW-4/A. PW-6 is HC Yashpal. He is
the witness of investigation. He had accompanied the IO
Inspector Vijay Nagar (PW-17) to Garh Mukteshwar for the
investigation of the case. He proved the arrest memos, personal
search memos and disclosure statements given by accused
Ganesh Kumar, Paramjeet and Kamal (since discharged) as Exbt.
PW-6/A to Exbt. PW-6/I. He proved the pointing out memo of the
place of recovery of the body Exbt. PW-6/J, supplementary
disclosure statements of accused Paramjeet and Ganesh Exbt.
PW-6/K and Exbt. PW-6/L, seizure memo of gunny bag Exbt. PW-
6/M and the seizure memo of bag Exbt. PW-6/N. PW-7 is HC
Sushil Tyagi. He took the FIR and original Rukka to the spot and
handed over the same to ASI Bijender. PW-8 is HC Devender FIR No. 26/07 Page 5 of 31 Kumar. He is also the witness of investigation with the IO. He is
the witness of arrest and recovery of camera stand and the bag.
PW-9 is Sh. Raj Kumar Tripathi, ACMM. He had conducted the
TIP proceedings of the case property vide TIP proceedings Exbt.
PW-9/A. PW-10 is ASI Bijender Singh. He is the first IO. He
proved the site plan Exbt. PW-10/A. After the investigation was
taken up by PW-17, he assisted him in further investigation. PW-
11 is Constable Ravinder Singh Pundhir from PS Incholi. He
produced the record of FIR No. 4/07 of PS Incholi, Meerut, copy of
which is Exbt. PW-11/A. PW-12 is Krishan Kumar and PW-13 is
Rajesh Kumar. They are the witnesses of Panchnama. PW-14 is
Mehbar Singh, brother in law (Jeeja) of accused Ganesh. He did
not support the prosecution in any manner and was declared
hostile. PW-15 is SI Prem Babu Sharma from PS Incholi. On
07.01.2007, he along with other staff reached at the spot after
receiving the information that the dead body of an unknown
person was lying in the field. PW-16 is Constable Manveer Singh
from PS Incholi. He produced the Malkhana Register of PS
Incholi which contained entries with regard to case FIR No. 4/07.
PW-17 Inspector Vijay Nagar is the Investigating Officer. During
investigation, he had arrested the accused and affected recovery
at their instance. 6. Statements of accused Ganesh and Paramjeet were FIR No. 26/07 Page 6 of 31 recorded under Section 313 Cr. PC wherein they denied the entire
incriminating evidence against them. They stated that they were
innocent and took the defence of false implication. However, they
did not lead any evidence in their defence. 7. Arguments have been heard from Mohd. Iqrar, learned
APP for the State and Chaudhary Rajender Kumar, advocate for
accused Paramjeet and Sh. Mohd. Hassan, Amicus Curiae for
accused Ganesh. The prosecution has relied wholly on
circumstantial evidence for bringing home the offence of the
accused. It is a settled law that in a case based on circumstantial
evidence, prosecution has to prove all the incriminating
circumstances beyond any shadow of reasonable doubt and the
circumstances so proved should complete the chain of events
linking the accused with the commission of the crime. There
should not be left any chinks in such a chain and no circumstance
should be of such a nature which could lead to any inference of
the innocence of the accused. All circumstances so alleged and
proved must show the involvement of the accused in the crime.
The learned counsels have taken the plea that there is no
clinching circumstance against the accused to prove their guilt. 8. I have considered the submissions of the learned APP
and the learned counsels of accused. PW-1 Rakesh Kumar, who FIR No. 26/07 Page 7 of 31 is the complainant, is the star prosecution witness. He deposed
that deceased Kaushal was his cousin and that he and Kaushal
were running a photo studio at Ganesh Nagar Complex. On
06.01.2007, accused Ganesh, representing himself as Rajnish,
came at his studio at around 3.00 pm and demanded a camera
from him on rent for shooting in a function at Hastina Pur Bada
Mandir for 07.01.2007 to 12.01.2007. On being asked to give
some reference, accused Ganesh gave the reference of Hari
Darshan, Director of G.M. Films, Pallavi Towers, District Meerut.
He stated that Hari Darshan was known to him as he had hired a
camera from him earlier. Deceased used to go at the functions of
Hari Darshan earlier. He obtained residential address and the
father's name of accused Ganesh and also obtained the
accused's contact number. Kaushal was then sent with camera
with the accused. He dropped the deceased upto the ground floor.
They then hired an auto and his cousin along with Ganesh and
another boy who was standing on the ground floor, sat in the said
TSR and left from there. PW-1 further deposed that on 08.01.2007
and 09.01.2007, he contacted on the mobile phone given by the
accused but it was switched off. Accused while giving number had
told him that the mobile phone number was belonging to his
brother Shri Niwas and that there would be no problem in
contacting him on the said number. He then tried to contact him
on 11.01.2007 but the person who picked up the phone, told him
that he is Shri Niwas but does not know any person with the name FIR No. 26/07 Page 8 of 31 of Rajnish. On 13.01.2007, PW-1 along with some relatives went
in search of the deceased to Meerut at G.M. Films and contacted
Hari Darshan who deputed one of his persons with them who took
them to Bada Mandir, Hastina Pur where he came to know that
there was no shooting at Bara Mandir. They then along with that
person reached at Tej Garhi Chauraha where they were told that
no person by the name of Rajnish resides there. Thereafter, PW-
1 returned to Delhi and made a complaint to the police on
14.01.2007. On 15.01.2007, PW-1 along with police went to
Pallavi Towers and came to know that Hari Darshan is lodged in
jail in some case. They searched for deceased but did not find any
clue. On 26.01.2007, he accompanied the police to Garh
Mukteshwar and met Shri Niwas and gave description of Ganesh
(Rajnish) and told him that Rajnish used to speak in a female
voice. Shri Niwas told the police that there were some persons
with the said description. He further deposed that on 31.01.2007,
he received a telephone call from Garh Mukteshwar from the
police officials that one Rajnish, whose actual name was Ganesh,
had been caught. On receipt of this information, he along with his
friends went to Garh Mukteshwar and met the police and identified
accused Ganesh. Thereafter, he came back to Delhi and
informed about this to Delhi Police. He further deposed that after
31.01.2007, he accompanied Delhi Police to Village Amhera near
Garh Mukteshwar where they tried to contact Paramjeet in the
said village but he was not traceable and was absconding but the FIR No. 26/07 Page 9 of 31 police seized a camera stand (track board) which was kept on the
rack inside the house of Paramjeet. He stated that in the month of
February 2007, he was called by the police and shown a
photograph and he identified the photograph to be that of his
cousin Kaushal Sharma. He was also shown some clothes of his
brother Kaushal Sharma which were identified by him. According
to him, accused Ganesh came at his shop for hiring camera and
had given his name as Rajnish. He stated that he had identified
the camera and the camera stand in TIP in court. 9. The only circumstance on which the prosecution is
relying against accused Paramjeet is the recovery of camera
stand of the complainant at his instance. The learned defence
counsel has argued that there is no public witness of recovery,
there is delay in affecting the recovery and there is no proper TIP
as PW-1 had already seen the camera stand and therefore it is
argued that the circumstance of recovery of camera stand is not
proved beyond doubt. 10. The testimony of PW-17 Inspector Vijay Nagar is most
relevant to judge the manner of arrest and recovery. He deposed
that on 31.01.2007, he along with police staff went to Garh
Mukteshwar for the investigation of the case. There they met an
advocate Shri Niwas and then reached Village Shahpur Jat and FIR No. 26/07 Page 10 of 31 met Ram Niwas who produced accused Ganesh. Accused
Ganesh was brought to Police Station Garh Mukteshwar.
Complainant Rakesh Kumar was called who identified Ganesh as
the same person who had come to him telling his name as
Rajnish and had taken his brother Kaushal (deceased) to Meerut
for shooting the picture with his video camera. After the arrest of
accused Ganesh, he was interrogated and he gave disclosure
statement Exbt. PW-6/C and thereafter at his instance, accused
Paramjeet and Kamal were apprehended from the house of
Dharam Pal from Village Amhera near Meerut and on
interrogation, accused Paramjeet and Kamal gave disclosure
statements Exbt. PW-6/H and Exbt. PW-6/I. All the three accused
were then brought to Delhi. IO further deposed that on
02.02.2007, he along with all the accused persons reached PS
Incholi where SI Prem Babu gave him some documents.
Thereafter, they reached in the jungle of Village Sikhera where
accused pointed out the place of murder of Kaushal vide memo
Exbt. PW-6/J and from there, they went to Village Mempur at the
house of in-laws of accused Paramjeet from where accused
Paramjeet got recovered a stand of camera kept in a jute bag
from slab (tand) in the room which was seized vide memo Exbt.
PW-6/M. After the seizure of the camera stand, they went at
Village Shahpur Jat and recovered a bag containing the leads of
camera, remote, camera tapes, black pant, sky blue shirt, a camel
colour underwear and a bed sheet vide memo Exbt. PW-6/N at FIR No. 26/07 Page 11 of 31 the instance of accused Ganesh from a heap of wood & bricks
lying on the roof of house of Ram Niwas. 11. In cross examination, IO admitted that he did not join the
Pradhan of Village Amhera or any other local person in the
investigation prior to reaching the house of accused Paramjeet.
He stated that the house of accused Paramjeet was a rented
premises but did not record the statement of landlord Dharam Pal.
He stated that the mother in law and brother of father in law of
accused Paramjeet met them in the house of in-laws of accused
Paramjeet but he did not record their statements. He admitted that
either prior to or after recovery, he did not ask any local person or
the relatives of accused Paramjeet to join the investigation. He
denied that Rakesh had joined the investigation on 02.02.2007 at
Village Mempur. He denied that camera stand was recovered in
the presence of Rakesh or that Rakesh had identified the camera
stand at the place of recovery on 02.02.2007. 12. PW-6 Yashpal and PW-8 HC Devender Kumar are also
the witnesses of recovery of camera stand at the instance of
accused Paramjeet. In cross examination, HC Yashpal stated that
complainant Rakesh was not with them on 02.02.2007 when they
went to Village Mempur. In cross examination, PW-8 HC
Devender Kumar stated that on reaching Village Mempur, he FIR No. 26/07 Page 12 of 31 parked his vehicle outside the village and IO took all the three
accused to the village and returned back after one hour near his
vehicle and as per the version of the IO, one stand of camera
was recovered from Mempur. It is thus evident that HC Devender
Kumar was not present at the time of recovery of camera stand at
the instance of accused Paramjeet as he was with the vehicle. Be
as it may, if the testimonies of PW-6, PW-8 and PW-17 are to be
believed, complainant Rakesh Kumar was not joined in the
investigation on 02.02.2007 and at the time of recovery of camera
stand, he was not present. However, as discussed, PW-1 has
deposed that camera stand was recovered in his presence from
the house of in-laws of accused Paramjeet by the police. In his
cross examination, he stated that the camera stand was
recovered in his presence on 02.02.2007. Prosecution did not
cross examine Rakesh Kumar on the question of his presence at
the time of alleged recovery of camera stand in his presence.
Thus, prosecution has not controverted the stand taken by PW-1
Rakesh Kumar. 13. In cross examination, Rakesh Kumar stated that he
cannot tell whether at the time of recovery of camera stand,
accused Paramjeet was present in the house or not. According to
him, for the first time, he had seen Paramjeet in the television in
Crime Report sponsored by Zee News after 02.02.2007 and prior FIR No. 26/07 Page 13 of 31 to that, he had not seen Paramjit. It is thus clear from the cross
examination of complainant that accused Paramjeet was not even
present at the time of recovery of camera stand from the house of
his in laws and therefore prosecution has failed to prove that
camera stand was recovered at the instance of Paramjeet. 14. If the camera stand was recovered in the presence of
the complainant, as stated by him, subsequent identification of the
camera stand in TIP serves no purpose and therefore in such
circumstances, the TIP of camera stand is of no help. 15. After his arrest on 31.01.2007, accused Paramjeet gave
disclosure statement Exbt. PW-6/I wherein he stated that he had
concealed the camera stand at his in-laws house at Mempur and
can get the same recovered. Thus, on 31.01.2007 itself, IO had
the information that camera stand was lying at the house of in-
laws of accused Paramjeet at Village Mempur but despite this, no
effort was made to affect the recovery either on 31.01.2007 or
01.02.2007. In cross examination, IO states that all the
recoveries in this case were affected after the recording of
supplementary disclosure statement of accused dated
02.02.2007. Following question was put in cross examination to
the IO:- On further cross examination, IO admitted that he did not
record any changed disclosure statement of accused and that
disclosure statements dated 02.02.2007 was recorded after
affecting the recoveries. Thus, the testimony of IO is self
contradictory, in as much as, at one place in cross examination he
states that the recoveries were affected after recording
supplementary disclosure statement of accused dated 02.02.2007
while in further cross examination, he states that the disclosure
statements of accused dated 02.02.2007 were recorded after
affecting the recoveries. The explanation given for not affecting
the recovery immediately after first disclosure statement dated
31.01.2007 is also not satisfactory as no changed disclosure if
any made by the accused was recorded. Thus, the recovery made
at the instance of accused Paramjeet after two days of the
disclosure statement is doubtful. 16. In the case of Liyakat Hussain Vs. State 2008 (4) CC
Cases (HC) 373, IO had stated that accused was arrested on
06.09.1999 at about 4.00 pm and he admitted that on 06.09.1999
he came to know about the place where the axe and the head of
the deceased had been thrown. Head of the deceased was
recovered on 08.09.1999. The Hon'ble Court held that there was
no explanation forthcoming from the prosecution side as to why
the accused was not taken on 06.09.1999 itself for the recovery of
head and axe and why the recovery of head of the deceased was
made on 08.09.1999. It was therefore held that in the absence of
any explanation, it becomes doubtful that the recoveries were
actually made at the instance and on the pointing out of the
accused. 17. The facts of the present case are also similar. Accused
Paramjeet was not taken on 31.01.2007 itself for the recovery of
the camera stand and the explanation given by the IO is not
satisfactory and therefore it is doubtful that the recovery of camera
stand was actually made at the instance and pointing out of
accused Paramjeet. Hence, in my view, prosecution has failed to
prove the circumstance of recovery of camera stand at the
instance of accused Paramjeet. Accused Paramjeet has also
been charged for conspiring with co-accused Ganesh Kumar to
rob Kaushal Sharma of his camera and to commit his murder. The FIR No. 26/07 Page 16 of 31 evidence of recovery of camera stand being doubtful, there is no
evidence of conspiracy against accused Paramjeet. Thus,
prosecution has failed to prove the charge against accused
Paramjeet. 18. So far as accused Ganesh Kumar is concerned,
prosecution is relying on the following circumstantial evidence to
prove his guilt: 21. The learned Amicus Curiae has argued that in cross
examination, PW-1 has stated that Rajnish had taken the camera
from him on rent 6-8 times and if that was so, he would have
known that his actual name was Ganesh and there was no
occasion for him to have asked for any reference from him. In the
light of this argument, it has been submitted that the testimony of
PW-1 with regard to the accused having approached him for
camera impersonating as Rajnish cannot be relied upon. 22. PW-1 admitted in cross examination that Rajnish had
taken the camera from him on rent 6-8 times and while giving
camera, he had also met him but in further cross examination, he
clarified that accused Ganesh used to tell his name as Rajnish
and that he came to know of his actual name as Ganesh only after
his arrest. Thus, it is clear that Rakesh Kumar knew accused
Ganesh as Rajnish despite the fact that he visited his photo studio
6-8 times. In cross examination, PW-1 admits that on earlier
occasions also, Rajnish (Ganesh) had taken the camera for Hari
Darshan and he was having business dealings with Hari Darshan
since last 6-7 months prior to the incident. Merely because
accused had taken the camera on previous occasions for Hari
Darshan, it cannot be regarded as unnatural on the part of
complainant to ask for reference of the person for whom the
camera was required. The evidence on record conclusively proves
that accused Ganesh Kumar had taken the camera on rent from
PW-1 Rakesh Kumar while impersonating as Rajnish. 23. The learned Amicus Curiae has argued that there is
contradiction in the prosecution case as to whether Delhi Police
or local police of Garh Mukteshwar apprehended accused
Ganesh, in as much, PW-1 Rakesh Kumar deposed that on
receipt of telephone call from police official, he went at PS Garh FIR No. 26/07 Page 19 of 31 Mukteshwar and identified accused Rajnish (Ganesh) and
thereafter came back to Delhi and informed the said facts to Delhi
Police meaning thereby that Delhi Police was not aware till then
that accused Ganesh had been apprehended. No doubt, the
statement given by PW-1 created some kind of confusion but the
same was cleared in the cross examination of PW-1 wherein he
stated that he remained with Delhi Police at PS Garh Mukteshwar
for about ten minutes which corroborates the testimony of the IO
that it was Delhi Police which apprehended accused Ganesh and
therefore there is no contradiction. 24. So far as the last seen aspect is concerned, in the case
of State Vs. Satish 2005 (3) SCC 114,it has been observed as
under:- 25. In Ram Reddy Rajesh Khanna Reddy Vs. State of
A.P. 2006 (10) SCC 172, it has been observed as under:- 26. PW-1 Rakesh Kumar testified that his brother
(deceased) used to go at the functions of Hari Darshan earlier and
therefore sent his cousin Kaushal Sharma with Rajnish (accused
Ganesh) along with the camera and also dropped his cousin upto
the ground floor. He stated that his cousin along with Rajnish and FIR No. 26/07 Page 21 of 31 another person, who was standing on the ground floor, hired an
auto and he witnessed the same. PW-1 has also testified that
accused had requested him to hire the camera for the period
07.01.2007 to 12.01.2007 for shooting purpose at a function which
was to take place at Hastina Pur, Bada Mandir. It has come in the
testimony of PW-1 that on 08.01.2007 and 09.01.2007, he tried to
contact Rajnish to know about the function and his well being on
the number of his brother Shri Niwas given by Rajnish but the
mobile was switched off. He made yet another attempt on
11.01.2007 on the same mobile number and this time, a call was
received by Shri Niwas but he told him that he does not know any
person by the name of Rajnish. In cross examination, PW-1 gave
the time when Kaushal Sharma accompanied Ganesh as 5.00 -
6.00 pm. Thus, PW-1 had last seen his cousin Kaushal Sharma
going with accused Ganesh on 06.01.2007 at about 5.00 - 6.00
pm. He was not seen by anyone thereafter. 27. PW-4 Rajender Prasad is the person from whose field
the body of Kaushal Sharma was found. The Panchnama of the
body prepared by SI Prem Babu Sharma proves that the body
was recovered on 07.01.2007. PW-12 Krishan Kumar and PW-13
Rajesh Kumar had also seen the body lying in the sugarcane field
in Village Sikhera. According to PW-4 Rajender Prasad, he
informed the police at about 11.00 - 11.30 am. Thus, the body FIR No. 26/07 Page 22 of 31 must have been discovered before 11.00 am on 07.01.2007. SI
Prem Babu Sharma deposed that the body was preserved for
three days for identification but it remained unidentified. He stated
that the body was photographed and after postmortem, the body
was cremated. PW-1 Rakesh Kumar deposed that in the month
of February 2007, he was called by Delhi Police in connection with
the case and was shown the photograph and he identified the
photograph to be of his cousin Kaushal Sharma. He identified the
photograph of deceased Kaushal Sharma in court also. There is
no challenge to the fact that the body recovered on 07.01.2007
from the sugarcane field in Village Sikhera was of Kaushal
Sharma, cousin of PW-1 Rakesh Kumar. 28. It is proved from the evidence that accused Ganesh took
Kaushal Sharma with him on 06.01.2007 at about 5.00 pm - 6.00
pm from Delhi towards Hastina Pur Bada Mandir which is in
Meerut District and the body of Kaushal Sharma was recovered at
about 11.00 am on 07.01.2007 from Village Sikhera which also
falls within Meerut District. Thus, there is not only close proximity
of time between the event of accused Ganesh having been last
seen with the deceased and the factum of his death but there is
also proximity to the place where he was being taken. Once the
prosecution establishes the fact that the deceased was last seen
in the company of accused Ganesh and thereafter his body was FIR No. 26/07 Page 23 of 31 found, it becomes obligatory on the accused to satisfy the court
as to how and where and in what manner the deceased parted
company with him. It is on the principle that a person who is last,
found in the company of another, if later found missing then the
person with whom he was last seen, has to explain the
circumstances in which they parted company. In taking this view,
I am guided by the judgment of Sahadevan Saggadevan Vs.
State AIR 2003 SC 215. 29. Similarly, in the case of Madho Singh & etc. Vs. State
of Rajasthan 2001 Crl. LJ 2159, the Hon'ble Court held "once the
circumstance of last seen in the company of the appellants with
deceased Om Singh stands conclusively proved on record
inculpating the accused appellants, in our considered opinion
during the time of questioning U/s. 313 Cr. PC the accused
appellants ought to have explained or clarified incriminating
circumstances connecting them with the crime and ought not to
have shown their adamant attitude of total denial of everything
particularly when those circumstances were directly brought to
their notice by the Court. The incriminating circumstance of
having left the house of Om Singh by the appellants alongwith him
since stands proved then such incriminating link in the chain of
events could, if at all be explained only by the persons like the
accused appellants themselves and by nobody else, since the FIR No. 26/07 Page 24 of 31 said circumstance was exclusively within their knowledge. Having
failed to do so on the part of the accused appellant at the time of
questioning U/s. 313 Cr. PC, in the instant case, which the
appellant not only lost the opportunity but stood self-condemned,
the trial Court has, from the falsity of the defence plea and false
answers given to Court, found the missing links to be furnished by
such answers for completing the chain of incriminating
circumstances necessary to connect them with the crime so
committed. That being so, the missing link to connect the
appellants was provided by the blunt and outright denial of every
question put to the accused and the incriminating circumstances
in their totality as pointed out which, with sufficient and reasonable
certainty on the facts proved lead to no other conclusion except
the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused". 30. In the present case also from the testimony of PW-1
Rakesh Kumar, the circumstance that accused was last seen in
the company of the deceased is conclusively established. Last
seen evidence was put to accused in his statement under Section
313 Cr. PC but accused made a blunt and outright denial and did
not explain the incriminating circumstance of last seen.
Therefore, the lack of explanation from accused provides
additional link in the chain of circumstances which leads to no
other explanation except the hypothesis of guilt of accused FIR No. 26/07 Page 25 of 31 Ganesh. 31. The next circumstance on which the prosecution case
relies is the motive for murder. In the case of circumstantial
evidence, motive bears important significance. Motive is an
emotion which impels a person to do a particular act. The
defence has argued that prosecution has failed to establish the
motive for the commission of offence. However, I am unable to
accept the submission as it is evident from the testimony of PW-1
that the motive for murder was to rob the camera of PW-1 Rakesh
Kumar from the possession of deceased. As per the testimony of
PW-1, accused Ganesh had hired the camera from PW-1 Rakesh
Kumar while impersonating as Rajnish and deceased Kaushal
Sharma was sent alongwith camera with accused Ganesh. In
cross examination, PW-1 has stated that he had bought the
camera in the month of March 2006 from Kapoor House in
Chandni Chowk in the sum of Rs. 2.25 lakhs. It was an expensive
camera. The learned Amicus Curiae has argued that no proof of
ownership of camera has been produced. It is submitted that in
cross examination, Rakesh, Kumar has stated that he used to
issue receipt with regard to the bookings made or cash received
and had handed over the diary to the police but the same has not
been filed with the charge sheet and therefore it is not proved that
complainant was the owner of the camera or that he had hired the FIR No. 26/07 Page 26 of 31 camera to accused Ganesh. No previous enmity or ill-will has
been alleged against PW-1 for false implication of accused
Ganesh. There is no reason why PW-1 would depose falsely that
he owned the camera and had sent his cousin Kaushal Sharma
with accused Ganesh along with camera. I therefore have no
reason to disbelieve the testimony of PW-1 despite the fact that
receipt of camera is not produced. 32. The learned Amicus Curiae has argued that video
camera was not recovered from accused Ganesh and therefore
there is no evidence that he is the beneficiary of the video camera
and hence prosecution has failed to prove that motive was to rob
the camera of complainant. 33. Inspector Vijay Nagar (PW-17) deposed that on
22.03.2007, a courier boy named Janardan Tiwari came at the
police station and produced a video camera with the particulars of
the case mentioned on it. The camera was later identified by
complainant Rakesh Kumar in TIP. Prosecution could not produce
the courier delivery boy Janardan Tiwari to prove that he had
delivered the camera at the police station. Prosecution cited
Mehkar Singh (PW-14) to prove that he had found the camera
from the cow dung and had sent the same to the police station
through courier but Mehkar Singh has turned hostile and has not FIR No. 26/07 Page 27 of 31 supported the prosecution version. He denied that he had found
any such camera or sent the same through courier. Thus, the
recovery of camera is not linked with accused Ganesh. However
despite recovery being not linked with the accused, there is no
doubt in the mind of the court that the dominant motive for the
murder was the robbery of camera because the camera was not
recovered near the body of the deceased and accused has not
explained as to where was the camera gone as it was he who had
accompanied the deceased along with camera. It is thus
immaterial that camera was not recovered from the possession of
accused Ganesh. Hence, in my view, prosecution has been able
to prove that the motive for the murder was robbery of expensive
camera from the deceased. 34. The next circumstance on which the prosecution is
relying is the recovery of bag of Kaushal Sharma which contained
his clothes and the accessories of camera at the instance of
accused Ganesh vide recovery memo Exbt. PW-6/N from the
house of his brother in law Ram Niwas. Prosecution has neither
cited nor examined Ram Niwas. The learned Amicus Curiae has
argued that as per the disclosure statement of accused Ganesh
Exbt. PW-6/C, the bag of Kaushal Sharma was taken away for
disposal by Kamal and Kamal in his disclosure statement Exbt.
PAW-6/H stated that he had thrown the bag in the bushes in the FIR No. 26/07 Page 28 of 31 field. It is submitted that police made no effort to recover the bag
on 31.01.2007 pursuant to the disclosure statement of Kamal and
had planted the bag on accused Ganesh after two days. 35. Section 27 of the Evidence Act is by way of a proviso to Sections 25 & 26 and a statement even by way of confession
made in the police custody which distinctly relates to the fact
discovered is admissible in the evidence against the accused.
The discovery must be due to information given by the accused.
In the present case, the recovery of bag vide memo Exbt. PW-6/N
is not pursuant to the disclosure statement Exbt. PW-6/C and the
subsequent statement Exbt. PW-6/L. Accused Ganesh did not
disclose that he can get the bag recovered. Therefore, no part of
the confession made by the accused led to the discovery of any
fact and the same is inadmissible in evidence. 36. Admittedly, there is no public witness of recovery. In the
case of Chander Pal & Ors. Vs. State 1998 (3) CC Cases HC
215, it has been held by the Hon'ble High Court that non joining of
public witnesses as attesting witnesses to the disclosure
statement as well as recovery smacks of malafide and makes
the prosecution version very doubtful. Similarly, in the case of State of Haryana Vs. Ram Singh 2002 SCC Crl. 351, the
Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that when the disclosures and FIR No. 26/07 Page 29 of 31 arrests are made in the absence of independent witnesses, it
creates doubt or suspicion which must go to the benefit of
accused. In the present case, there is no explanation as to why
public persons were not joined at the time of the recovery of bag. 37. PW-1 has deposed that in the month of February 2007,
he was called by the police in connection with the present case
and was shown the photograph and clothes of Kaushal Sharma
which were identified by him. Although the police had got
conducted the judicial TIP of the camera and the camera stand
but the bag containing the clothes of the deceased and the
accessories of the camera were not got identified in the judicial
TIP. Thus, the identification of clothes of the deceased at the
police station and the identification of camera accessories for the
first time in court by the complainant is not a proper identification
and the same creates a doubt. Hence, in my view, prosecution
has not been able to prove the circumstance of recovery of
clothes and camera accessories at the instance of accused
Ganesh. 38. Despite the failure of prosecution to prove the last
circumstance of recovery, the other incriminating circumstances
such as (I) impersonation by accused Ganesh as Rajnish, (ii) last
seen evidence and (iii) motive which have been enumerated and FIR No. 26/07 Page 30 of 31 analysed with reference to the rival contentions of the defence
and which are of conclusive nature and tendency rather fully
established in prosecution evidence, are unmistakably and
inevitably pointers to the guilt of accused Ganesh and further the
facts so established are consistent only with the hypothesis of the
guilt of accused Ganesh because they exclude every possible
hypothesis except the one to be proved and leave no reasonable
doubt for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the
accused. Nothing has been highlighted by the defence or brought
on record to make the facts proved or the circumstances
established to be in any manner in consonance with the
innocence of accused Ganesh. 39. In view of my aforesaid discussion, prosecution has been
able to prove that accused Ganesh impersonated as Rajnish and
fraudulently induced him to hire his camera to him and thereafter
robbed the said camera from the possession of deceased Kaushal
Sharma and then committed his murder and disposed off his body
in the fields at Village Sikhera. Accused Ganesh is therefore held
guilty of the offence under Section 302 / 419 / 392 / 201 IPC while
accused Paramjeet is acquitted. (RAVINDER DUDEJA)

 ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE:FTC/E-COURT/KKD/DELHI. ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT ON 24.02.2012.