(Judgement of the Court was delivered by P. SATHASIVAM,J.) 

 Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Limited, aggrieved by the
common order dated 10.3.1999 in W.P.Nos.4799 & 4800 of 1998 quashing the 
circular dated 6.5.1994 in so far as it relates to the inclusion of the writ
petitioners in the Specific Approval List, has filed the above writ appeals. 2. Mr.Jayakumar and Mr.Vimalkumar are sons of P.Anthony who is the
proprietor of M/s.Annai Cashew Industries, Kanyakumari District. Aggrieved by
the Circular No.859 dated 6.5.1994 of the Export Credit Guarantee Corporation
of India Limited, (a Government of India Enterprises), Bombay-21 including
both the writ petitioners, viz., Jayakumar and Vimalkumar in the "Specific
Approval List" filed W.P.Nos.4799 of 1998 and 4800 of 1998 respectively.
Since the facts and the questions raised in both the petitions are similar and
one and the same, we shall dispose of both the appeals by this common
judgment. 3. For convenience, we shall refer the case of the petitioner in W.P.No.4799
of 1998. 4. W.P.4800 of 1998 is filed by his brother A.Vimalkumar raising
similar contentions. 5. ECGC, first respondent in both the writ petitions filed a
separate, but identical counter affidavits. The stand of ECGC is briefly
stated hereunder: 6. By the common order dated 10.3.1999, learned Single Judge, after
finding that inclusion of petitioners' names in the Specific Approval List
amounts to blacklisting and in the light of the fact that the petitioners were
not given opportunity before the communication of the Circular dated 6.5.1994,
quashed the same and allowed both the writ petitions. Questioning the said
common order, ECGC has filed the present appeals. 7. Heard Mr.S.Krishna Srinivasan, learned counsel for the appellant
and Mr.R.Srinivas, learned counsel for the contesting first respondent in both
the appeals. 8. The only point for consideration in these appeals is whether the
inclusion of names of the writ petitioners' concerns in the Specific Approval
List amounts to blacklisting or not? 9. It is not in dispute that the main object of the ECGC is to
provide financial guarantee to the banks and other institutions to protect
them from risks undertaken by them in granting financial assistance to
exporters. In the event that an exporter defaults in payment and the bank is
unable to recover the same, ECGC would make good the loss to the bank. In
this way, M/s.Annai Cashew Industries owned by P.Anthony who was one such 
exporter had sought for financial assistance from the Indian Overseas Bank,
Melpuram Branch for packing credit. Since the said company did not repay the
advance availed, as per the terms and conditions and schemes and guidelines of
ECGC, the writ petitioners being sister concerns of the said Industry were
placed in the Specific Approval List. 10. Now, let us consider whether the inclusion of any concern in the
Specific Approval List is similar to blacklisting the same. The primary goal
of ECGC is to support and strengthen the export promotion drive in India by
providing a range of credit risk, insurance covers to exporters against loss
in export of goods and services and also by offering guarantees to banks and
financial institutions to enable the exporters to obtain better facilities
from them. Among various clauses relating to packing credit guarantee,
Clauses 11(1) and 1 1(2) are relevant, which read as under: 11.1. What is SAL? Specific Approval List (SAL) (maintained by the
Corporation and circulated among all banks) contains names and addresses of
the exporters to whom packing credit advances granted by a bank can be covered 
under WTPCG only if the Corporation has given its approval in writing. The
list provided to banks is an important source of information for identifying
exporters who have defaulted. The list is mainly aimed at advising banks to
exercise caution while dealing with such exporters. 11.2 Need for placing an export in SAL. Generally speaking the necessity for placing an exporter in
SAL may arise in cases where: While placing the name of an exporter under SAL, Corporation may also consider
including the names of sister concerns as the financial difficulties of the
exporter might adversely affect their financial position as well. Names of
proprietor/partners and guarantors/directors are also included in SAL with a
view to prevent them from obtaining finance in the names of some other
concerns floated by them.

In view of the above clauses and of the fact that M/s.Annai Cashew Industries
committed default, the petitioners being sister concerns, ECGC included their
names in the Specific Approval List. 11. Mr.Krishna Srinivasan, learned counsel appearing for the
appellant/ECGC would contend that the learned Single Judge was not correct in
concluding that the inclusion of the petitioners in the Specific Approval List
would amount to blacklisting the concerns of the petitioners. According to
him, by putting the petitioners in the Specific Approval List, ECGC had not
disentitled them from obtaining export related advances from its bankers and
its bankers could still extend advances to them either after obtaining the
Specific Approval from the ECGC or the bankers could still extend the export
related advances to the exporters without obtaining guarantee from the ECGC.
He also contended that the scheme, namely, inclusion in the Specific Approval
List is an additional safeguard worked out in consultation with the export
concerns. He further contended that inasmuch as ECGC is providing guarantee
to the bank, in the event of default by the exporter, the ECGC is entitled to
take reasonable steps to include the name of defaulter as well as its sister
concerns in the Specific Approval List. 12. On the other hand, Mr.R.Srinivas, learned counsel appearing for
the contesting first respondent/writ petitioner in each appeal submitted that
inasmuch as the inclusion of the petitioners' name in the Specific Approval
List would tantamount to blacklisting their concerns and they cannot avail
financial assistance for export from banking institutions, they are entitled
to an opportunity of being heard before the issuance of impugned circular
dated 6.5.1994. 13. It is not in dispute that M/s.Annai Cashew Industries after
getting guarantee from ECGC availing export facilities, committed default.
Though it is stated that the writ petitioners have nothing to do with
M/s.Annai Cashew Industries, it is not in dispute that it is the concern of
their father, by name, P.Anthony. It is also seen that while availing loan
for M/s.Annai Cashew Industries as per the requirements, M/s.Jaya Cashew
Industries and M/s.Vimal Cashew Industries along with M/s.J.V.Cashew
Industries were shown as sister concerns of the said Annai Cashew Industries.
In such circumstances, as per Clause 11.2 of Guidelines of ECGC is within its
power to include the names of sister concerns in the Specific Approval List.
In view of the terms of contract, as rightly argued by Mr.S.Krishna
Srinivasan, learned counsel for ECGC, it is reasonable to accept that the
object and purpose of the Circular aims to minimise the risk and if the ECGC
is required by the banks to provide insurance cover against such advances made
to the exporter, due and proper care should be taken in this regard. 14. A careful scrutiny of the impugned communication shows that it,
in no way, prohibited the banks from advancing funds or loans to the
petitioners and it required the petitioners to obtain specific and prior
approval of ECGC, if the banks sought for any insurance cover to credit
facilities. In such circumstances, the petitioners have no right to prevent
ECGC from taking whatever steps it should take so as to safeguard and minimise
the risk in their business as a measure of prudence and proper planning in the
discharge of their commercial dealings involving public funds. The purpose of
including the names of petitioners in the Specific Approval List is otherwise
called, caution list is to include the names of persons about whom extreme
care and caution has to be taken for variety of reasons and that inclusion in
the list is for the purpose of the Corporation itself in the exercise of its
discretion which it is called upon to exercise. Further, when such list is
only meant for the guidance of the ECGC itself, it is difficult to understand
as to how a person can complain about the cautious conduct of the ECGC in
deciding beforehand that whenever any such case comes up for consideration, it
should exercise greater care and caution. The right of the appellant to issue
instructions to the second respondent bank as well as other banks cannot be
disputed and therefore the petitioner cannot complain that the principles of
natural justice had been violated by the appellant while issuing the said
communication. Likewise, there is also no case of blacklisting of the
petitioners' concerns. As rightly pointed out, it is not possible for the
court to determine whether a particular unit is viable, because determination
would require examination of many facts including the financial implications
and the Courts are not in a position and are not called upon to undertake such
a detailed exercise. It is necessary for the Court to leave such discretion
in favour of the financial institutions like, ECGC to determine whether an
unit is viable or otherwise and the courts should be extremely slow in
interfering with those matters. In other words, the discretion exercised by
the financial institutions is not to be interfered with unless it is made with
oblique motive or for extraneous purposes or considerations. 15. It is brought to our notice that the impugned circular No.859
dated 6.5.1994 shows not only the writ petitioners,but also innumerable
parties have been put on the Specific Approval List or caution list and this
is not a case where the petitioners have been singled out. On the facts and
materials placed, we find that the Specific Approval List or caution list
cannot be equated with the blacklisting. In such a circumstance, the decision
of the Apex Court in Southern Painters v. Fertilizer & Chemicals, Travancore
Ltd. [1994 (Supp.2) SCC 699 ] relied on by the learned Single Judge is not
applicable to the case on hand. 16. Learned counsel appearing for the appellant very much relied on
the decision of the Single Judge of this Court dated 24.4.2000 made in
W.P.No.19462 of 1999. In that case, M/s.Vamadev Exports, Tiruppur sought for
writ of Mandamus directing ECGC for removal of its name from the Specific
Approval List and also prayed for further direction to ECGC and Indian Bank,
Avinashi to forbear them from insisting 2% cut back on all the export bills
favourably negotiated of their firm M/s.Vamadev Exports. After considering
the schemes and guidelines of ECGC and after finding that it is not a case of
blacklisting and neither capricious, nor arbitrary act and no breach of
principles of natural justice, the learned Single Judge dismissed the said
writ petition. 17. Learned counsel for the appellant also pressed into service the
Division Bench decision of the Kerala High Court dated 29.9.1989 in W.A.No.767
of 1989 wherein the Division Bench, while deciding the very same question
between cashew trader and ECGC, Ernakulam-Cochin, after finding that the
purpose of including the names of persons in the Specific Approval List is to
indicate the names of customers about whom extreme care and caution has to be 
taken for variety of reasons, confirmed the order of the learned Single Judge
and dismissed the writ appeal filed by the cashew trader/petitioner. Though
the above judgment is very brief, however, it is clear that when the guarantee
is required to be given in favour of the persons to be included in the list,
the Corporation has to examine with greater amount of care and caution. The
Division Bench also observed that the inclusion of such person in the list is
for the purpose of Corporation, ECGC itself in regard to the exercise of its
discretion which it is called upon to exercise. They further held that, "in
these days when acting with utmost carelessness is the order of the day if
some procedure has been established for dealing with certain amount of care
and caution, we fail to see how this Court can come in the way of such a
salutary procedure being followed by a Government.". 18. Learned counsel for the appellant has also relied on another
Division Bench decision of Bombay High Court (Goa Bench at Banaji) dated
14.9.1992 in W.P.76 of 1990. Identical communication/circular of ECGC, Mumbai 
was challenged in the said writ petition by some of the exporters. The
contentions that are raised before us were raised before the Division Bench.
The Division Bench after finding that the communication/circular has no way
prohibited the banks from advancing funds or loans to the petitioners and all
that was sought from them by the respondent No.1/ECGC was to obtain the prior
and specific approval if the said bank required them to furnish any insurance
cover against the credit facilities involving the petitioners, concluded thus: Therefore no relief to prevent the Corporation from exercising greater care
and caution is admissible. 

The Division Bench further held that there is no case of blacklisting of the
petitioners and it is necessary for the court to leave the discretion in
favour of the financial institutions to determine whether an unit is viable or
otherwise and the Court should be extremely slow in forcing the financial
institutions to advance public funds to private party on an assumption that
the unit would be viable. The concluding remarks at para-30 are also
relevant: Vs. State of West Bengal and another (AIR 1975 SC 266) is not applicable.
The question in the case cited supra was that the tenderer was put in the
black list with the result there was no question of accepting his tender. The
case at hand is entirely different where the request for cover of insurance
was to be decided on merits of the application. 19. In the earlier part of our judgment, we have extracted Clause 11
.1 and Clause 11.2 of the Schemes and Guidelines of ECGC. We also referred
the fact that while availing guarantee from ECGC, the required particulars of
not only Annai Cashew Industries were furnished, but also the details of Jaya
Cashew Industries and Vimal Cashew Industries along with J.V.Cashew
Industries, the sister concerns of Annai Cashew Industries, were given. On
the materials placed, we are of the view that the Specific Approval List or
caution list cannot be equated with blacklisting and therefore we are unable
to accept the argument of learned counsel for the writ petitioners as well as
the conclusion arrived at by the learned Single Judge. On the other hand, we
are in respectful agreement with the view expressed by the Division Benches of
Kerala and Bombay High Courts referred above and we refer with approval the
order of learned Single Judge of this Court dated 24.4.2000 in M/s. Vamadev
Exports vs. ECGC, Coimbatore. 20. Mr.R.Srinivas, learned counsel appearing for the contesting first
respondent/writ petitioners heavily relied on the following decisions of the
Supreme Court in support of his claim that without notice or opportunity, the
inclusion of the petitioners' names in the Specific Approval List is bad. 1. A.I.R. 1975 S.C. 266 ( E.E.&C. Ltd. vs. State of West Bengal ) 2. 1994 Supp.(2) S.C.C. 699 ( Southern Painters vs. Fertilizers & Chemicals
Travancore Ltd., and another ) 3. 2003 (4) S.C.C. 557 ( Canara Bank and others vs. Debasis Das and others ) 4. A.I.R. 1990 S.C.1031 ( Mahabir Auto Stores vs. Indian Oil Corporation ) 5. 1995 (6) S.C.C. 289 ( M.J. Sivani vs. State of Karnataka ) 6. 2003 (2) S.C.C. 673 ( Onkar Lal Bajaj and others vs. Union of India and
another ) 7. 2004 (3) S.C.C. 553 ( ABL International Ltd., vs. Export Credit Guarantee
Corporation of India Ltd. ,) 21. The first two decisions A.I.R. 1975 S.C. 266 and 1994 (Supp.2)
SCC 699, namely, (cited supra) relate to blacklisting of contractor. It is
true that there is no dispute that blacklisting will have the effect of
preventing a person from the priv e and advantage of entering into lawful
relationship with the Government for the purposes of gains. The decisions
also revealed that the person concerned should be given an opportunity to
represent his case before he is put on the blacklist. On appreciation of
materials placed, we have already held that the inclusion of names in the
Specific Approval List or caution list would not amount to blacklisting;
hence, those decisions are not applicable to the case on hand. 22. In 2003(4) SCC 557 and in AIR 1990 SC 1031 (cited supra) also the
Honourable Supreme Court has held that even an administrative order which
involves civil consequences must be consistent with the rules of natural
justice. 23. In 1995(6) SCC 289 (cited supra), their lordships have held that
every action of the State or an instrumentality of the State must be informed
by reason. They further held that actions uninformed by reason may amount to
being arbitrary and liable to be questioned under Article 226 or 32 of the
Constitution of India and the action must be just, fair and reasonable. In
those cases the question sought to be decided was with regard to regulation of
the video games under the Mysore Police Act, 1963 and Madras City Police Act,
1888 as well as order passed by the Government in G.O.Ms.No.166-0 dated
18.1.1993. First of all, the facts therein have nothing to do with the
present case and secondly, the Supreme Court upheld the orders passed by the 
High Court and dismissed the appeals filed by persons running video games. 24. By relying on the decision of the Supreme Court reported in 2003
(2) SCC 673 (cited supra), it is contended that the role model for governance
and decision taken thereon should manifest equity, fairplay and justice. The
batch of cases relates to distribution of state largesse and allotment of
retail outlets of petroleum products. While there is no dispute regarding the
proposition of law, on going through the factual details, we are of the view
that the ratio decidendi is not applicable to the case on hand. 25. Finally, learned counsel for the writ petitioners heavily relied
on 2004 (3) SCC 553 (cited supra). The case relates to the maintainability of
a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution against Export Credit
Guarantee Corporation of India when disputed questions of fact are involved.
Though learned Single Judge of the Calcutta High Court quashed the letters of
repudiation issued by ECGC and allowed the writ petition, the appellate Bench
of the same High Court reversed the findings of the learned Single Judge and
held that the claim of appellant involving disputed questions of fact cannot
be adjudicated in a writ proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution and
set aside the judgment of the learned Single Judge. A perusal of the Supreme
Court judgment shows that the main argument relates to the maintainability of
the writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India in respect of
disputed questions of fact. Their Lordships also discussed and arrived at the
conclusion that ECGC is an instrumentality of State discharging public
function. 26. After detailed discussion in para-27, their Lordships have framed
the following legal principles as to the maintainability of the writ petition. 27. (a) In an appropriate case, a writ petition as against a State or an
instrumentality of a State arising out of a contractual obligation is
maintainable. (b) Merely because some disputed questions of fact arise for consideration,
same cannot be a ground to refuse to entertain a writ petition in all cases as
a matter of rule. ( c ) A writ petition involving a consequential relief of monetary claim is
also maintainable. 28. However, while entertaining an objection as to the maintainability of a
writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, the Court should
bear in mind the fact that the power to issue prerogative writs under Article
226 of the Constitution is plenary in nature and is not limited by any other
provisions of the Constitution. The High Court having regard to the facts of
the case, has a discretion to entertain or not to entertain a writ petition.
The Court has imposed upon itself certain restrictions in the exercise of this
power. (See Whirlpool Corpn. Vs. Registrar of Trade Marks [1998 (8) SCC 1]
. And this plenary right of the High Court to issue a prerogative writ will
not normally be exercised by the Court to the exclusion of other available
remedies unless such action of the State or its instrumentality is arbitrary
and unreasonable so as to violate the constitutional mandate of Article 14 or
for other valid and legitimate reasons, for which the Court thinks it
necessary to exercise the said jurisdiction.  27. On facts, the Honourable Supreme Court concluded that the policy
of insurance covering the risk of the appellants, viz., ABL International
Limited and another was issued by the first respondent (ECGC) after seeking
all required information and after receiving huge sums of money as premium
exceeding Rs.16 lakhs and the terms of the policy do not give room to any
ambiguity as the risk covered by ECGC. They also found that there is no
allegation that the contracts in question were obtained either by fraud or
misrepresentation. In such factual situation, the Apex Court accepted the
order of the learned Single Judge and reversed the conclusion arrived at by
the appellate Bench of the Calcutta High Court. In such circumstances, we are
of the view that though in the said decision , where ECGC was the first
respondent, neither the High Court, nor the Hon'ble Supreme Court had an
occasion to consider the effect of inclusion of the defaulters or their sister
concerns in the Specific Approval List. As said earlier, the Honourable
Supreme Court elaborately dealt with the maintainability of the writ petition
on the facts and circumstances of that case and also finally considered the
terms of the contract and policy of insurance covering the risk of the
appellants therein, accepted the case of ABL International Ltd., and reversed
the conclusion of the appellate Bench of the Calcutta High Court; hence, the
same is also not helpful to the stand taken by the writ petitioners. 28. The perusal of the impugned order shows that the learned Judge
proceeded on the footing that the inclusion of the petitioners' names in the
Specific Approval List would amount to blacklisting and without further
discussion by referring the judgment in 1994 (Supp(2) SCC 699 (cited supra),
set aside the circular dated 6.5.1994 and allowed the writ petition. In view
of our discussion in the earlier paragraphs, we are unable to accept the
reasonings of the learned Judge. In addition to the above mentioned reasons,
we are also satisfied that by putting the petitioners on the Specific Approval
List, the appellant/ECGC had not disentitled them from obtaining export
related advances from their bankers and their bankers could still extend
export related advances to the petitioners either after obtaining the specific
approval of the appellant Corporation or the bank could still extend the
export related advances to the petitioners without obtaining the guarantee
from the appellant corporation. As pointed out earlier, the ECGC has not
branded the writ petitioners as defaulters. As rightly pointed out, the
inclusion of their names in the Specific Approval List only indicates that
there are prima facie circumstances that warrants the collection of additional
information before the risk could be accepted for cover. As discussed
earlier, when the petitioners approached the second respondent bank for
assistance and when the second respondent in turn sought for risk cover, the
ECGC had to necessarily assess the credit risk factors and the list of
exporters, i. e., potential operators with whom ECGC would like to be more
cautious and hence, it cannot be equated to blacklisting. As said earlier,
ECGC is a Government of India Enterprises established to provide insurance
covers to exporters and cover their credit risk on overseas buyers and to
their bankers over their credit risk on export financing to Indian exporters,
has to necessarily have a system to assess the credit risks that are offered
to them for cover and where it is prima facie a bad risk, it will not be
proper for them to accept such risk and no insurance on the face of it would
underwrite such bad risks. The precautions and arrangements made by ECGC 
cannot be termed as arbitrary action. We hold that the inclusion of the name
of the petitioners in the Specific Approval List does not amount to
blacklisting and it is neither arbitrary, nor illegal and there is no
violation of the principles of natural justice. Under these circumstances, the common order dated 10.3.1999 passed by
the learned Judge in W.P.No.4799 & 4800 of 1998 is set aside. Both the writ
appeals are allowed. No costs. 