Brief facts of the prosecution case:- 2 of 16
 Kumar, the IO of the case for necessary action. IO handed over the
 complaint to Duty Officer for registration of an FIR. The Duty Officer
 registered the present FIR against the accused under section 135 of the
 Act. Thereafter, IO visited inspected premises i.e. H.No.C-10, Gali No.5,
 Chauhan Banger, Delhi where one Mohd. Saleem was found and he
 disclosed that he had purchased the said premises from Subhani Begum
 w/o Sajjad Ahmed and in this regard IO prepared a status report. IO also
 prepared site plan. Thereafter, IO served Subhani Begum with the notice
 under section 41 .1A Cr.P.C . Accused Subhani Begum joined the
 investigation and IO prepared interrogation report. During interrogation,
 accused Subhani Begum disclosed that user/accused Naseem was residing
 on rent in the inspected premises and he has vacated the inspected
 premises in the month of December 2018 and his whereabouts are not
 known to her. IO also collected copy of Adhar card of accused Subhani
 Begum and she was bound down vide pabandinama. Despite efforts
 user/accused Naseem could not be traced out. After completion of
 investigation, charge-sheet was filed against the accused Subhani Begum
 under section 135 of the Act. 4. On 18.11.2021, notice for the commission of offence under section 135 / 150 of the Act was given to accused Subhani Begum to which
 she pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 5. In order to prove its case against the accused, the prosecution
 examined following witnesses:- (5.2) PW2 Sh. Durgesh is the Diploma Engineer Trainee (DET). This
 witness is another member of the inspection team and he also corroborated
 the testimony of PW1 and deposed on the similar lines of the testimony of
 PW1. (5.3) PW3 Sh. Jai Singh is the Lineman. This witness is another
 member of the inspection team and he also corroborated the testimony of
 PW1 and PW2 and deposed on the similar lines of the testimony of PW1
 and PW2. This witness deposed that the illegal wire could not be removed
 due to hindrance created by the persons present at site. (5.4) PW4 Sh. Mukesh is the Videographer. This witness deposed that
 an inspection was conducted by the enforcement team at the premises of
 accused and during inspection, on the instruction of team leader Sh. P.S.
 Paul, Manager of the complainant company, he did videography of the
 inspection proceedings. During evidence, this witness has also identified
 the videography contained in the CD Ex.PW1/1. (5.5) PW5 ASI Brijesh Kumar is the IO of the case. This witness
 deposed that on 18.07.2019, the complaint (Ex.PW1/7) was handed over
 to him for necessary action. On 24.07.2019, he handed over the said
 complaint to Duty Officer for registration of FIR. Duty Officer registered
 Digitally
 signed by
 AJAY AJAY GUPTA
 Date: 6. After culmination of prosecution evidence, statement of accused
 was recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C. Accused denied the inspection but
 she did not deny that electricity meter was not installed at the inspected
 premises. Accused denied the allegations of theft by co-accused Naseem
 and stated that she has settled the matter with the complainant company
 and has also made the payment and an NOC has been issued. Accused
 opted not to lead any defence evidence. Accordingly opportunity to lead
 defence evidence was closed and matter was listed for final arguments. 7. Final arguments have been heard from the Ld. Addl. PP for the
 State as well as Ld. Counsel for the accused. During the course of
 Digitally
 signed by
 AJAY AJAY GUPTA
 Date: 8. Ld. Defence Counsel, on the other hand, argued that accused is
 innocent and she has been falsely implicated in the present case. Accused
 has not committed any theft of electricity. It is further submitted that
 matter has already been settled with the complainant company and
 settlement amount has already been paid and an NOC has already been
 issued in favour of the accused. 9. Before dealing with the factual aspect of the present case, it is
 deemed appropriate to specify the legal position and relevant provisions of
 the Act which are required to be gone into for appropriate disposal of the
 cases pertaining to section 135 / 150 of Electricity Act. The provisions of section 135 / 150 of the Electricity Act are reproduced as under:- 10. There is a presumption mentioned in the third proviso of Section
 135 (1) of the Electricity Act, 2003 which reads as follows:- 11. As per prosecution case, at the time of inspection, no electricity
 meter was available at the inspected premises and the user/accused
 Naseem (not traceable) was found indulged in direct theft of electricity
 was connected to the Pole No. YVR-X 459. Accused Subhani Begum was
 owner of the inspected premises and user/-co-accused Naseem was tenant
 in the said premises. Being owner of the inspected premises, accused
 Subhani Begum abetted the user/accused to commit direct theft of
 electricity. Thus, the onus was on the prosecution to prove these
 allegations against the accused persons beyond reasonable doubt. 12. PW1 Sh. P.S. Paul (Manager), PW2 Sh. Durgesh (DET), PW3
 Sh. Jai Singh (lineman) and PW4 Sh. Mukesh (Videographer) are the
 material witness in this case. They have corroborated the allegations made
 in the complaint Ex.PW1/7 and their testimony is in conformity with the
 documents i.e. inspection report Ex.PW1/2, load report Ex.PW1/3, seizure
 memo Ex.PW1/4 and theft bill Ex.PW1/5. 13. PW3 Sh. Jai Singh (Lineman) was also one of the members of
 the inspection team. He has corroborated the testimony of PW1 and PW2
 and has also deposed on the similar lines of the testimony of PW1 and
 PW2. PW3 also deposed that he could not remove the illegal wires due to
 hindrance caused by the accused. 14. PW4 Sh. Mukesh (photographer) had also accompanied the
 inspection team to the spot and he has also supported the version of PW1,
 PW2 and PW3 and deposed that an inspection was carried out at the
 Digitally
 signed by
 AJAY AJAY GUPTA
 Date: 15. It is clear from the testimony of PW1, PW2 and PW3, that on
 07.02.2018 at about 8.25 am, an inspection was carried out at the premises
 of accused by the inspecting team members/officials of complainant
 company and at the time of inspection, no electricity meter was available
 and this fact has not been disputed by the accused at all. It is also clear
 from the testimony of PW5 that accused Subhani Begum was the owner of
 the inspected premises and user/co-accused Naseem (not traceable) was
 the tenant in the inspected premises. It is further clear that the user/accused
 was found indulged in direct theft of electricity through Black and Yellow
 colour wire which was connected to the Pole No. YVR-X-459. In his
 statement accused did not deny that there was no electricity meter installed
 in the inspected premises. In the interrogation report Ex.PW5/4, accused
 admitted that she was the owner of the inspected premises and inspection
 was carried by the officials of BESE. The entire inspection proceedings
 were recorded by videographer/PW4 Sh. Mukesh and CD of the said
 inspection proceedings was brought on record as Ex.PW1/1. It is also clear
 from the testimonies of PW1, PW2 and PW3 that the illegal wire could not
 be removed by the lineman/PW3 due to hindrance created by the accused
 and this fact has not been disputed by the accused persons in the cross-
 examination of PW1, PW2 and PW3. Perusal of cross-examination of
 PW1, PW2 and PW3 shows that though, the accused endevaoured to
 dispute the factum of inspection, preparation of inspection documents,
 Digitally
 signed by
 AJAY AJAY GUPTA
 Date: accused Naseem (not traceable) was tenant in the inspected premises.
 Thus, in view of settled provisions of section 150 of the Act, the accused
 Digitally
 signed by
 AJAY AJAY GUPTA
 Date: 19. In view of the settled law, now it is to be seen if the accused has
 taken any defence to rebut the presumption existed against him. Accused
 has simply stated in her statement recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C that
 she is innocent and has been falsely implicated in this case. She stated that
 she has already settled the dispute and settlement amount has already been
 paid by her and an NOC has also been issued. Accused did not lead any
 defence evidence. If the co-accused (Naseem) was not indulged in direct
 theft of electricity or that he was using the electricity through any legal
 means, then the accused Subhani Begum, who was landlord of the
 inspected premises during relevant time was liable to rebut the statutory
 presumption by disproving the allegations made in the complaint by
 leading relevant defence evidence. It is admitted position of fact that
 accused Subhani Begum was owner of the inspected premises during
 relevant time, which was let out to co-accused Naseem (not traceable). It is
 clear from the evidence led by prosecution that at the time of inspection,
 co-accused Naseem (not arrested) was found indulged in direct theft of
 electricity and he was indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal
 Digitally
 signed by AJAY
 AJAY GUPTA
 Date: 20. In view of aforesaid discussions, it is held that the prosecution
 has proved beyond reasonable doubt that the user/co-accused Naseem was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire which was
 connected to BSES Pole. It is also proved on record that accused Subhani
 Begum was owner of the inspected premises at the time of inspection of
 the inspected premises and she had let out the inspected premises to her
 tenant/user Naseem who was indulged in direct theft of electricity. Thus,
 Digitally
 signed by
 AJAY AJAY GUPTA
 Date: