A.M. Khanwilkar, J. 1. Five illustrious persons in their own field have filed this

 petition on 29th August, 2018 complaining about the high-

 handed action of the Maharashtra Police in raiding the homes

 and arresting five well known human rights activists,

 journalists, advocates and political worker, with a view to kill

 independent voices differing in ideology from the party in

 power and to stifle the honest voice of dissent. They complain

 that the five activists, namely, Gautam Navalakha, Sudha Signature Not Verified Bharadwaj, Varavara Rao, Arun Ferreira and Vernon Digitally signed by CHETAN KUMAR Date: 2018.09.28 15:49:40 IST Reason: Gonsalves were arrested on 28th August, 2018 from their 2 homes at New Delhi, Faridabad, Mumbai, Thane and

Hyderabad, respectively, without any credible material and

evidence against them justifying their arrest, purportedly in

connection with FIR No.0004/2018 dated 8th January, 2018

registered with Police Station Vishram Bagh, Pune City. This

action was to silence the dissent, stop people from helping the

poor and downtrodden and to instill fear in the minds of

people and was a motivated action to deflect people‟s attention

from real issues. The petitioners have made it clear in their

petition that they were seriously concerned about the erosion

of democratic values and were approaching this Court “not to

stop investigation into allegations” “but” to ensure

independent and credible “investigation into the arrest of

stated five human rights activists.” They claim that anything

short of that relief will damage the fabric of the nation

irreparably. 2. The FIR in connection with which the said five persons

came to be arrested has been appended and marked as 3 Annexure P-2. It was registered on the basis of the statement

given by one Tushar Ramesh Damgule, which reads thus: No translated copy of the FIR or the seizure memo was made

over to Gautam Navlakha or Sudha Bhardwaj even though

they were not conversant with Marathi. In this backdrop,

Gautam Navlakha filed habeas corpus petition before the Delhi

High Court, being Writ Petition No.2559 of 2018 challenging

the transit remand order passed by the Chief Metropolitan

Magistrate on 28th August, 2018. Similar petition was filed in 10 the Punjab and Haryana High Court to direct the jurisdictional

Court which had allowed the prayer to grant transit remand,

to keep Sudha Bhardwaj at her residence under supervision of

the local police. Even the petition filed in the Punjab and

Haryana High Court is still pending. Nevertheless, the

petitioners rushed to this Court by way of the present writ

petition filed as a public interest litigation, to espouse the

cause of the five persons arrested by the Pune Police, praying

for an independent and comprehensive enquiry into the stated

arrest as follows: Besides taking objection regarding the maintainability of the

writ petition being filed by third parties who are strangers to

the offence under investigation, he has highlighted that in

light of the material gathered during the investigation

conducted so far, it would be desirable to dismiss the writ

petition. He has stated that the entire writ petition is based

upon individual perception of the writ petitioners that the

arrested persons are “all outstanding, well-known and well

respected human rights activists” and therefore, their arrest

requires to be enquired into and they should be released on

bail. Having said that, he has asserted that in the instant

case, the five named persons have been arrested not because

they expressed dissenting views or difference in their political

or other ideologies but the investigation done so far has

unraveled their involvement in a serious offence, including of

being active members of Communist Party of India (Maoist),

which has been banned as a terrorist organization since 2009, 13 and of their involvement in planning and preparation of large

scale violence and destruction of property, resulting into chaos

in the society. Each of them is part of a well thought out

criminal conspiracy and had supported the event arranged at

Pune by the Elgaar Parishad through a frontal organization

called “Kabir Kala Manch”. 10. It is then stated that one Tushar Ramesh Damgule had

lodged an FIR on 8th January, 2018, naming six persons as

accused for the offence registered thereunder by the Vishram

Bagh Police Station. Out of the six named accused, only one

person came to be arrested on 6th June, 2018, namely, Sudhir

Dhawale in connection with the registered offence. As the

investigation progressed and material was gathered during the

ongoing investigation, Section 120-B was added on 6th March,

2018 and two more persons were found to be suspected

accused namely, Surendra Gadling, R/o Nagpur and Rona

Wilson, R/o Delhi. On 17th April, 2018 the Investigating

Agency conducted searches at the residence of eight persons,

namely: 11. He has further stated that all the documents recovered

during the search from the custody and possession of the

respective accused will be produced before the Court, perusal

of which would reveal that the accused persons are not merely

political dissenters but involved in sinister design, planning,

preparation and commission of criminal offences to destabilize

the society. After the incriminatory material came to light,

further offences under Sections 13 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 18-B , 20 , 38 , 39 and 40 of the UAPA are added on 17th May, 2018 against

the following individuals: The affidavit further states that during the on-going

investigation, following persons came to be arrested on 6th

June, 2018: drives and memory cards which have been forwarded to

Forensic Science Laboratory, which in turn provided clone

copies to the Investigating Agency for facilitating further

investigation. 12. It is then stated in the affidavit that the further

investigation unraveled that the five persons who came to be

arrested on 28th August, 2018 were also involved in the

criminal conspiracy and their role was not merely peripheral

in nature. Based upon the incriminating material, they were

arrested from the residential or work places under similar

fashion in the presence of independent panchas who were

Government Officers. It is also stated that one of them,

namely, Vernon Gonsalves has been convicted by the Special

Court, Nagpur for offences under the UAPA. 13. The sum and substance of the reply affidavit is that

sufficient material has become available during the

investigation, which is still in progress, to indicate the

complicity of the concerned accused who have been arrested 18 including the five named persons in respect of whom the

present writ petition has been filed by third parties. They are

arrested not because of their political activities but for their

involvement in the planning and execution of offences to

destabilize the society and their association with the banned

organization. Their involvement is noticed in selecting and

encouraging cadres in the banned organizations to go

underground in „struggle area‟, mobilizing and distributing

money, facilitating selection and purchase of arms, deciding

the rates of such arms and suggesting the routes and ways of

smuggling such arms into India for its onward distribution

amongst the cadres. Some of them have suggested training

and laying booby traps and directional mines. Their

involvement is also for providing strategic inputs in

furtherance of the objective of armed rebellion, on lines of

strategic documents of the banned terrorist organization. It is

stated that all the material collected during the investigation

will be eventually placed on record of the jurisdictional Court

along with the police report to be filed in due course. Further,

the question of showing that material to anyone muchless 19 accused, would defeat the investigation in progress and that is

not the requirement of law. The affidavit also emphasizes that

house arrest of the concerned accused merely restricts

physical movement but there is no way of ensuring that these

persons would not indulge in destruction of evidence and alert

other potential accused while sitting at home. As a matter of

fact, their custodial interrogation may become necessary

during further investigation and for which reason the

Investigating Agency be granted liberty to take them in police

custody in accordance with law. 14. The petitioners have filed exhaustive rejoinder affidavit.

Besides the rejoinder affidavit, formal applications have been

filed on behalf of Sudha Bharadwaj, Varavara Rao, Arun

Ferreira and Vernon Gonsalves, who are presently under

house arrest, that they be permitted to pursue the writ

petition as filed by them. This application is in response to the

issue of locus of five petitioners as being strangers to the

offence under investigation. Besides, an application has been

filed by the petitioners for permitting them to amend the 20 prayer clause of the writ petition and permit the petitioners to

seek following modified prayers: 15. During the arguments, Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Dr.

Rajeev Dhawan, Dr. Ashwani Kumar learned senior counsel

and Mr. Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel appearing for the

writ petitioners and Mr. Anand Grover, learned senior counsel

appearing for the arrested persons, have argued that the

stated five persons have not been named in the FIR nor were

they present during the event referred to in the FIR.

Registration of two FIRs in respect of the same incident, first

on 2nd January, 2018 at Pimpri (Urban) Police Station and the

second, at Visharam Bagh Police Station, Pune City, was

impermissible and was a ploy to deflect the inaction of the

Pune Urban Police for the reasons best known to them.

Moreover, the offences under the draconian law (UAPA) have

been added without due authorization of the competent

authority. It is contended that liberty of individual and dignity

of the accused are the facets of core constitutional values.

They submit that this case is not about ordinary criminal 22 jurisprudence but of actualization of constitutional values and

to expose the unjustified incarceration of innocents who

happen to be human rights activists. They submit that the

liberty and dignity of the accused persons must be preserved.

According to them, the Investigating Agency was not

discharging its statutory obligation of fairness in investigation

but was indulging in selective leaks of documents which

contain unsubstantiated insinuations against the accused

persons solely with a view to malign their reputation and

create public opinion against them. The Pune Police had the

audacity to rush to the Press for divulging the documents

which they claim to have recovered during the seizure from

one of the accused and not the five persons arrested on 28th

August, 2018. They submit that the clarificatory statement

issued by the two former Judges cannot be discarded.

However, no effort has been made by the Investigating Agency

to ascertain the factual position from those two Judges.

According to them, it is a case of persecution of the five

persons named in the writ petition as multiple cases have

been registered against them since 2005 and each of them 23 have been acquitted in the concerned case. 25 criminal cases

were registered against Varavara Rao, 11 cases have been

registered against Arun Ferreira and 18 cases against Varnon

Gonsalves. They have been acquitted in all the cases except

one against Gonsalves, which matter is pending in appeal.

They have relied upon the report prepared by the Committee

headed by the Deputy Mayor which clearly points towards the

complicity of Sambhaji Rao Bhide and Milind Ekbote in

particular, for having caused incitement and violence on 1st

January, 2018. However, no action has been taken by the

Pune Police against the persons who were responsible for

causing riots and violence. It is submitted that it is

unfathomable that two FIRs are registered in respect of the

same incident and two different investigating agencies are

going ahead with the investigation. More so, the basis of arrest

of five persons on 28th August, 2018 was their involvement in

planning the assassination of the current Prime Minister but

there is no allegation to that effect in the FIR nor has any fresh

FIR been registered by the Police, although the same is a

serious matter warranting investigation by an Investigating 24 Agency no less then National Investigating Agency or at least

the CBI. The persons arrested, however, are well-known for

their track record of human rights activism and have been

unjustly put behind bars on the basis of unsubstantiated

allegations and without any evidence against them. The entire

sub-text of creating a real threat is a figment of imagination of

the Investigating Agency and that has been done for reasons

best known to them. Obviously, it is politically motivated. The

transit remand applications preferred by the Investigating

Agency also do not mention the letters indicative of

involvement of the persons concerned in planning and

execution of Maoist plot nor have those letters been produced

before the Court thus far. The letters which were flashed to the

media are obviously fabricated. Further, no plausible

explanation is forthcoming as to why the Investigating Agency

had taken panchas along with them for conducting search

outside the State of Maharashtra. The role of the investigating

team in FIR No.4 of 2018 in the manner in which they caused

arrest of five persons named in the writ petition, has been

seriously questioned and it is earnestly prayed by the learned 25 counsel that the modified reliefs as claimed ought to be

granted. The counsel have filed exhaustive written

submissions to buttress the plea for entrusting the

investigation of the case to an independent Investigating

Agency. 16. Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Additional Solicitor General

appearing for the State of Maharashtra on the other hand,

submitted that the Court should be loath to entertain the writ

petition of this nature when the investigation of a serious

crime is in progress as per the statutory provisions and the

material gathered during the investigation justifies the arrest

of the concerned accused. He submitted that the investigation

is being conducted responsibly and impartially and strictly in

accordance with the provisions of Cr.P.C . by an officer of the

rank of Assistant Commissioner of Police under the

supervision of Deputy Commissioner of Police and further

monitored by Joint Commissioner and finally by the

Commissioner of Police who is of the rank of Additional

Director General of Police. There is no allegations against the 26 investigating officer of working under dictation or that he had

any personal malice against the named accused. Further,

there is active involvement and monitoring of senior police

officials and pre-existing safeguards have been put in place by

the State in order to ensure a fair investigation and in order to

maintain independent and impartiality of all sorts, coupled

with the fact that the action of the Investigating Agency would

be monitored by the jurisdictional Courts at different stages,

the question of appointing Special Investigation Team or to

allow investigation by independent Investigating Agency under

the monitoring of the Court, should be eschewed. He

submitted that the Court may look at the documents already

gathered during the investigation to satisfy its conscience as to

whether the arrest of concerned accused was justified or

otherwise. In any case, there is robust mechanism of

overseeing the actions of the Investigating Agency by the

jurisdictional Courts while considering not only the

application for police remand or judicial remand and bail

application but also the remedy of discharge and quashing of

the prosecution. In other words, the issues raised by the 27 petitioners may be germane for pursuing relief of bail or

discharge/quashing, but not relevant to consider prayer for

change of investigating agency, that too at the instance of

accused themselves. He has handed over a compilation of

documents or incriminatory material collected during the

investigation allegedly showing the involvement of the

concerned accused, for our perusal. He has also handed over

the Case Diary and two Registers of documents recovered

during the search from the accused persons. He further states

that the subject FIR in respect of which action is being taken

against the accused was registered on 8th January, 2018 for

offences punishable under Section 153-A , 505 (1B) , 17 , 34 IPC. After the investigation progressed, further offences were

added including the offences under Sections 13 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 18B , 20 , 38 , 39 & 40 of UAPA on 16th May, 2018, on the basis

of the material collected during the on-going investigation.

Initially, the offence was registered only against 6 accused and

as the investigation progressed, as of now there are 22

accused named, including the 5 accused referred to in this

petition who were added as accused on 22nd August, 2018 28 for the reasons stated in the Case Diary, and only thereafter

the investigating team proceeded to arrest them on 28th

August, 2018. He submits that the Investigating Agency had to

proceed against the named accused after the revelation of their

involvement with the banned organization, as was noticed

from the documents and material recovered during the

searches conducted in respect of the premises of co-accused.

The named accused (A16 to A20) cannot be heard to question

that part of the investigation regarding the manner of search,

which the concerned co-accused alone may do at the

appropriate stage before the jurisdictional court. 17. He submits that even though the Court may have

jurisdiction to examine all aspects of the matter, considering

the fact that the investigation is at a nascent stage and is

being done by senior police officials under the supervision of

their superior officers up to the level of Commissioner of

Police, it is not a case for grant of reliefs as prayed. The

accused persons must take recourse to the remedy prescribed

by law instead of directly approaching this Court under Article 29 32 of the Constitution and can get complete justice from the

jurisdictional Court. He submits that in criminal matters,

interference in the garb of public interest litigation at the

instance of strangers has always been discouraged and

rejected by this Court. Further, the present petition is nothing

but abuse of the process and as the named accused Varavara

Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj and Gautam Navalakha have filed their

respective petitions before the jurisdictional High Courts,

which proceedings are pending for adjudication, the same

persons have now filed affidavits before this Court for

transposing them as petitioners and allowing them to adopt

the prayer of the writ petitioners. They ought to elect their

remedy to be pursued and in particular, before the

jurisdictional Courts. Therefore, this petition must be

discouraged. He submits that the modified relief claimed in the

writ petition to release the accused persons is in the nature of

habeas corpus which is not maintainable in respect of the

arrest made during the ongoing investigation. He submits that

no right can enure in favour of the accused to seek relief of

investigation of the crime through an independent agency and 30 for the same reason, even strangers to the offence under

investigation or next friends of the accused, cannot be

permitted to pursue such a relief in the guise of PIL. He

submits that the foundation of the present writ petition is the

perception of the writ petitioners (next friends) that the

accused are innocent persons. He submits that that basis is

tenuous. For, there are enough examples of persons having

split personality. In a criminal case, the action is based on

hard facts collected during the course of investigation and not

on individual perception. He contends that the argument of

the writ petitioners that liberty of the five named accused

cannot be compromised on the basis of surmises and

conjectures is wholly misplaced and can be repelled on the

basis of the material gathered during the ongoing investigation

indicating the complicity of each of them. He relies on Section

41 of Cr.P.C. which enables the police to arrest any person

against whom a “reasonable suspicion” exists that he has

committed a cognizable offence. Therefore, the integrity of the

Investigating Agency cannot be doubted as there is enough

material against each of the accused. He further submits that 31 the argument of the writ petitioners based on the

circumstances pressed into service for a direction to change

the Investigating Agency is completely against the cardinal

criminal jurisprudence and such a relief is not available to

persons already named as accused in a crime under

investigation. 18. Mr. Harish Salve, learned senior counsel appearing for

the complainant at whose instance FIR No.4/2018 came to be

registered at Vishram Bagh Police Station (Pune City), submits

that there is no absolute right, much less a fundamental right,

to market ideas which transcend the line of unlawful activity.

The Court must enquire into the fact as to whether the

investigation is regarding such unlawful activity or merely to

stifle dissenting political voice. If it is the former, the

investigation must be allowed to proceed unhindered. In any

case, the affected persons, namely, the named accused must

take recourse to remedy prescribed by law before the

jurisdictional Court as it is not a case of unlawful detention or

action taken by an unauthorized Investigating Agency. 32 According to him, the Court must lean in favour of appointing

a SIT or an independent Investigating Agency or Court

monitored investigation only when the grievance made is one

about the investigation being derailed or being influenced by

some authority. In the present case, the grievance is limited to

improper arrest of individuals without any legal evidence to

indicate their complicity in the commission of any crime or the

one registered in the form of FIR No.4/2018. The allegation of

motivated investigation is without any basis. No assertion is

made by the writ petitioners or the named accused that the

investigation by the Pune City Police is mala fide in law. If the

allegation is about mala fide in fact, then the material facts to

substantiate such allegation, including naming of the person

at whose instance it is being so done, ought to have been

revealed. That is conspicuously absent in this case. According

to the learned counsel, the reliefs claimed in the writ petition

do not warrant any indulgence of this Court. 19. After the high-pitched and at times emotional arguments

concluded, each side presenting his case with equal 33 vehemence, we as Judges have had to sit back and ponder

over as to who is right or whether there is a third side to the

case. The petitioners have raised the issue of credibility of

Pune Police investigating the crime and for attempting to stifle

the dissenting voice of the human rights activists. The other

side with equal vehemence argued that the action taken by

Pune Police was in discharge of their statutory duty and was

completely objective and independent. It was based on hard

facts unraveled during the investigation of the crime in

question, pointing towards the sinister ploy to destabilize the

State and was not because of difference in ideologies, as is

claimed by the so called human rights activists. 20. After having given our anxious consideration to the rival

submission and upon perusing the pleadings and documents

produced by both the sides, coupled with the fact that now

four named accused have approached this Court and have

asked for being transposed as writ petitioners, the following

broad points may arise for our consideration:- 21. Turning to the first point, we are of the considered

 opinion that the issue is no more res integra. In Narmada Bai

 Vs. State of Gujarat and Ors.1 , in paragraph 64, this Court

 restated that it is trite law that the accused persons do not

 have a say in the matter of appointment of Investigating

1 (2011) 5 SCC 79 35 Agency. Further, the accused persons cannot choose as to

 which Investigating Agency must investigate the offence

 committed by them. Paragraph 64 of this decision reads thus:- 2 (2016) 1 SCC 1 3 1993 Supp. (4) SCC 260
4 (2012) 8 SCC 106
5 (2014) 4 SCC 626
6 (1996) 11 SCC 253
7 (2010) 10 SCC 344
8 (1991) 3 SCC 756 36 23. Recently, a three-Judge Bench of this Court in E.

 Sivakumar Vs. Union of India and Ors.9 , while dealing with

 the appeal preferred by the “accused” challenging the order of

 the High Court directing investigation by CBI, in paragraph 10

 observed: 24. This Court in the case of Divine Retreat Centre Vs.

 State of Kerala and Ors.12 , has enunciated that the High

9 (2018) 7 SCC 365
10 Supra @ Footnote 5
11 (2009) 6 SCC 65

12 (2008) 3 SCC 542 37 Court in exercise of its inherent jurisdiction cannot change the

 investigating officer in the midstream and appoint an

 investigating officer of its own choice to investigate into a

 crime on whatsoever basis. The Court made it amply clear that

 neither the accused nor the complainant or informant are

 entitled to choose their own Investigating Agency to investigate

 the crime in which they are interested. The Court then went

 on to clarify that the High Court in exercise of its power under Article 226 of the Constitution can always issue appropriate

 directions at the instance of the aggrieved person if the High

 Court is convinced that the power of investigation has been

 exercised by the investigating officer mala fide. 25. Be that as it may, it will be useful to advert to the

 exposition in State of West Bengal and Ors. Vs. Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal and

 Ors.13 In paragraph 70 of the said decision , the Constitution

 Bench observed thus: 26. In the present case, except pointing out some

circumstances to question the manner of arrest of the five

named accused sans any legal evidence to link them with the

crime under investigation, no specific material facts and

particulars are found in the petition about mala fide exercise

of power by the investigating officer. A vague and

unsubstantiated assertion in that regard is not enough. 39 Rather, averment in the petition as filed was to buttress the

reliefs initially prayed (mentioned in para 7 above) – regarding

the manner in which arrest was made. Further, the plea of the

petitioners of lack of evidence against the named accused (A16

to A20) has been seriously disputed by the Investigating

Agency and have commended us to the material already

gathered during the ongoing investigation which according to

them indicates complicity of the said accused in the

commission of crime. Upon perusal of the said material, we

are of the considered opinion that it is not a case of arrest

because of mere dissenting views expressed or difference in

the political ideology of the named accused, but concerning

their link with the members of the banned organisation and its

activities. This is not the stage where the efficacy of the

material or sufficiency thereof can be evaluated nor it is

possible to enquire into whether the same is genuine or

fabricated. We do not wish to dilate on this matter any further

lest it would cause prejudice to the named accused and

including the co-accused who are not before the Court.

Admittedly, the named accused have already resorted to legal 40 remedies before the jurisdictional Court and the same are

pending. If so, they can avail of such remedies as may be

permissible in law before the jurisdictional courts at different

stages during the investigation as well as the trial of the

offence under investigation. During the investigation, when

they would be produced before the Court for obtaining remand

by the Police or by way of application for grant of bail, and if

they are so advised, they can also opt for remedy of discharge

at the appropriate stage or quashing of criminal case if there is

no legal evidence, whatsoever, to indicate their complicity in

the subject crime. 27. In view of the above, it is clear that the consistent view of

this Court is that the accused cannot ask for changing the

Investigating Agency or to do investigation in a particular

manner including for Court monitored investigation. The first

two modified reliefs claimed in the writ petition, if they were to

be made by the accused themselves, the same would end up in

being rejected. In the present case, the original writ petition

was filed by the persons claiming to be the next friends of the 41 concerned accused (A16 to A20). Amongst them, Sudha

Bhardwaj (A19), Varvara Rao (A16), Arun Ferreira (A18) and

Vernon Gonsalves (A17) have filed signed statements praying

that the reliefs claimed in the subject writ petition be treated

as their writ petition. That application deserves to be allowed

as the accused themselves have chosen to approach this Court

and also in the backdrop of the preliminary objection raised by

the State that the writ petitioners were completely strangers to

the offence under investigation and the writ petition at their

instance was not maintainable. We would, therefore, assume

that the writ petition is now pursued by the accused

themselves and once they have become petitioners themselves,

the question of next friend pursuing the remedy to espouse

their cause cannot be countenanced. The next friend can

continue to espouse the cause of the affected accused as long

as the concerned accused is not in a position or incapacitated

to take recourse to legal remedy and not otherwise. 28. Be that as it may, we are conscious of the fact that

prayer clause (i) and (ii) also make reference to FIR No.2/2018 42 registered at Pimpri (Urban) Police Station on 2nd January,

2018. However, that is an independent FIR registered at a

different police station against the Hindutva right wing leaders

Milind Ekbote and Sambhaji Rao Bhide. It is, at best, in the

nature of a cross FIR in respect of the same incident against

the alleged aggressors filed by an eye-witness. Neither the writ

petitioners nor the named accused in FIR No.4/2018 in that

sense, can pursue relief in respect of FIR No.2/2018 registered

at Pimpri (Urban) Police Station. Admittedly, Criminal Writ

Petition No.1875 of 2018 has alrady been filed in the Bombay

High Court by Anita R. Sawale (the complainant in FIR

No.2/2018) herself for issuing directions to the Investigating

Agency in that crime. As presently advised, we find force in the

argument of the State that the crime under investigation in

FIR No.4/2018, inter alia is to investigate the allegations that

a banned organization, CPI(M), organises events such as

referred to in FIR No.2/2018 to propagate ill-will in different

classes and turn them into unconstitutional and violent

activities. Further, such activities were purportedly carried out

by Kabir Kala Manch, Sudhir Dhawale and other activists in 43 different areas in the State of Maharashtra by delivering

vituperative speeches and to spread false history, disputable

statements and incite objectionable slogans, sing songs and

road dramas and distribution of objectionable and provocative

pamphlets and books also. And that the incidents such as at

Bhima Koregaon and nearby places of stone throwing, castes

clashes and arson incidents is the outcome of such

conspiracy. Taking any view of the matter, the reliefs claimed

in the modified prayer clauses (i) and (ii) in respect of FIR

No.2/2018, cannot be taken forward at the instance of the

named five accused persons in FIR No.4/2018 registered at

Vishram Bagh Police Station (Pune City) on 8th January, 2018

or for that matter their next friends. 29. A fortiori, it must follow that the writ petitioners, who are

strangers to the offence under investigation (in FIR

No.4/2018); and since they are merely espousing the cause of

the arrested five accused as their next friends, cannot be

heard to ask for the reliefs which otherwise cannot be granted

to the accused themselves. What cannot be done directly, 44 cannot be allowed to be done indirectly even in the guise of

public interest litigation. 30. We find force in the argument of the State that the prayer

for changing the Investigating Agency cannot be dealt with

lightly and the Court must exercise that power with

circumspection. As a result, we have no hesitation in taking a

view that the writ petition at the instance of the next friend of

the accused for transfer of investigation to independent

Investigating Agency or for Court monitored investigation

cannot be countenanced, much less as public interest

litigation. 31. As the answer to point Nos. (i) and (ii) are in the negative

and against the writ petitioners and named accused, we do not

wish to dilate on the circumstances pointed out to us by the

accused regarding the manner of their arrest. For, any

observation in that regard by this Court may prejudice the

said accused including the co-accused who are not before this

Court or the prosecution, which must be eschewed. We are of

the considered opinion that the investigation of the offence in 45 question is at a nascent stage and, therefore, it is not desirable

to elaborate further as the modified reliefs (i) and (ii) as prayed

cannot be granted for the reasons noted hereinbefore. 32. That takes us to the third modified relief claimed in the

writ petition to issue directions that all electronic devices,

records and materials, allegedly seized from the

detenue/accused, be examined by Forensic Science

Laboratory outside the State of Maharashtra to ensure fair

play and in the interest of justice. Even this prayer cannot be

taken forward. If any one of the twenty two named accused

have any grievance or apprehension about the same, he is free

to make that request before the jurisdictional Court, which

can be considered at the appropriate stage in accordance with

law. We are not expressing any opinion either way in the

present writ petition in that regard. 33. The fourth modified relief is to direct release of the

arrested activists from custody as per law. The accused

persons must pursue this relief before the appropriate court,

which can be considered by the concerned court on its own 46 merits in accordance with law. As noted earlier, the concerned

accused persons have already taken recourse to remedy before

the jurisdictional High Courts. Hence, they are free to pursue

all legal remedies available to them as per law. We are not

expressing any opinion either on the issue of maintainability

thereof or on merits of the reliefs that may be claimed therein.

All questions will have to be considered by the concerned

Court in accordance with law. Accordingly, even the fourth

modified relief cannot be considered in the present writ

petition. 34. In view of the above, we have advisedly refrained from

dealing with the factual issues raised by the parties and

including the named accused represented by their counsel

before us, as any observation made by this Court may cause

serious prejudice to them or the co-accused who are not before

this Court or, for that matter, the prosecution case, resulting

in serious miscarriage of justice. Similarly, we do not wish to

burden the judgment with the other reported judgments relied

upon by the counsel for the parties and dealing with legal 47 propositions canvassed by them, which are not necessary to

be answered in the present writ petition. 35. We may hasten to mention that we have perused the

Registers containing relevant documents and the Case Diary

produced by the State of Maharashtra. But we have avoided to

dilate on the factual position emerging therefrom, lest any

prejudice is caused to any accused or the prosecution, in any

manner. 36. The record/files/documents and the Case Diary handed

over to the Court in a sealed cover by the State be returned to

the counsel for the State in a sealed cover. 37. Accordingly, this writ petition is disposed of with liberty

to the concerned accused to take recourse to appropriate

remedy as may be permissible in law. The interim order

passed by this Court on 29th August, 2018 shall continue for a

period of four weeks to enable the accused to move the

concerned court. The said proceedings shall be decided on

its own merits uninfluenced by any observation made in this 48 judgment, which is limited to the reliefs claimed in the writ

petition to transfer the investigation to an independent

Investigating Agency and/or Court monitored investigation.

The Investigating Officer is free to proceed against the

concerned accused as per law. All the accompanying

applications are also disposed of in terms of this judgment. .………………………….CJI. (Dipak Misra)

 …………………………..….J.
 (A.M. Khanwilkar)

New Delhi; September 28, 2018. REPORTABLE

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
 CRIMINAL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION

 WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO 260 OF 2018 (D NO 32319)

ROMILA THAPAR AND ORS ..PETITIONERS

 VERSUS

UNION OF INDIA AND ORS ..RESPONDENTS

 JUDGMENT

Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J

1 The intersection between criminal law and constitutional rights has led

to the evolution of judicial precedent which originates in this Court. Our recent

decisions reiterate the value of individual dignity as essential to a democratic

way of life. But lofty edicts in judicial pronouncements can have no meaning to

a citizen unless the constitutional quest for human liberty translates into

securing justice for individuals whose freedom is under threat in specific cases.

The role of the Court involves particularly sensitive balances when the state

seeks to curb freedom to investigate perceived breaches involving offences

against the state. Custodial interrogation involves the balancing of diverse and 2 often conflicting values: the effective administration of criminal justice, an

impartial process of investigation and the liberty and reputation of the individual.

The invocation of our jurisdiction under Article 32 in this case is founded on the

grievance that a group of five human rights activists is sought to be persecuted

for espousing the cause of the marginalised which is considered to be

‘unpopular’. Conscious as the Court is of the public interest in the effective

administration of criminal justice, it cannot be oblivious to the overriding

constitutional concern to secure the dignity of the individual. The key to the

balance between the two lies in a fair, independent and impartial investigation

of crime. As a matter of principle, I am unable to agree with the views expressed

by the learned Chief Justice and my learned brother Justice AM Khanwilkar.

2 On 29 August 2018, the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 was

invoked by five distinguished academics to seek an “independent and

comprehensive inquiry” in the circumstances relating to the arrest of five human

rights activists on 28 August 2018. The arrests by the Pune police took place

following the raids which were conducted at their homes and offices. The arrests

took place simultaneously in Delhi, Faridabad, Mumbai, Thane and Hyderabad.

The petitioners assert that our jurisdiction has been invoked not to impede the

investigation but to ensure that an independent and credible investigation is

made by persons nominated by and subject to the supervision of this Court. The

petitioners urge that the invocation of the draconian provisions of the Unlawful

Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (UAPA) in the present case is an attempt to 3 silence dissent by targeting human rights activists who have been working to

protect the rights of the poor and the marginalised, particularly Dalits. This is set

forth in the prefatory averments of the writ petition, extracted here: 3 First, as to the locus of the petitioners: chairperson of the Kerala Planning Board and a member of a high-powered UN

Task Force on the global financial system; (iv) The fourth petitioner Satish Deshpande, is a sociologist at the University

of Delhi. He is a recipient of the Malcolm Adiseshiah award for distinguished

contributions to development studies. He was a member of the Union

government’s expert committee on the proposed Equal Opportunity

Commission. He has held visiting appointments at the University of Chicago

and in Paris; and (v) The fifth petitioner, Maja Daruwala, is a member of the Board and a

senior advisor to the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative. In that capacity

she has been associated with significant research on the implementation of 5 human rights norms in the country. She has been working in the field of

advocacy for rights and social justice for over fourty years.

4 The persons who were arrested on 28 August 2018 and on whose behalf

these proceedings were initiated have been described thus in the petition: 5 During the course of the hearing, a preliminary objection was raised by

Mr Tushar Mehta, the learned ASG to the maintainability of these proceedings.

He urged that the petitioners have no locus to question the circumstances

relating to the arrest of the five individuals named above. I would not have been

inclined to accept a technical argument of this nature in view of the

constitutional imperatives for this Court to intervene when human freedoms and

liberties are alleged to be imperilled. The jurisdiction under Article 32 is wide

enough to reach out to injustice in any form and originating in any source.

Securing human liberty and dignity must occupy an important space in the

judicial docket. Liberty and freedom are defining values of our Constitution. The

institutional role of this Court as a constitutional adjudicator should brook no

technicalities which obstruct the cause of justice. When a group of citizens has

moved this Court with an impassioned plea about the violation of human rights

1Details of these cases have been submitted in charts A, B and C annexed to the written submissions filed by
Dr AM Singhvi, learned senior counsel. — in the present case no less than five distinguished citizens with a track record

of service to the nation have done so — the Court must look beyond locus into

the heart of the matter. Whether the grievance has any substance is indeed a

distinct matter which must be determined objectively. The Court will not interfere

in every case merely because it has the jurisdiction. But its duty to scrutinise,

perceive and remedy violations of human rights is non-negotiable. However,

the issue of locus, even in a technical sense, has receded into the background.

During the course of the hearing, the Court has been apprised that each of the

five individuals who were arrested has subscribed to the averments in the

petition and would stand by what is urged before this Court in protection of their

rights. The objection to maintainability lacks substance, in either view of the

matter. 6 A brief historical background is necessary. On 1 January 1818, a few

hundred soldiers of the East India Company comprising of Dalits, tribals,

Muslims, Christians and backward communities defeated the Peshwa army led

by Bajirao II at Koregaon, on the banks of the Bhima river near Pune. Like many

of its genre, the battle has assumed a legendary status primarily because of the

victory of the Dalits. Honouring the then martyrs, the colonial government raised

a victory pillar, the ‘Vijay Stambh’. The pillar is a symbolic rallying ground for an

annual event to mark the victory. The event represents the aspirations of those

who have been subject to discrimination and prejudice in the caste-ridden

structure of our society. 7 In keeping with tradition, a public meeting was scheduled to

commemorate the 200th anniversary of the Bhima-Koregaon victory on 31

December 2017. Among those who were associated with the event were two

judges: one of them, Justice PB Sawant is a former judge of this Court. Justice

BG Kolse Patil is a former judge of the Bombay High Court. The event was

planned at Shaniwar wada in Pune. An organisation known as the Kabir Kala

Manch was to supervise a cultural programme. Besides the two judges who

addressed the Elgar Parishad, the speakers included Shri Prakash Ambedkar,

President of the Bharatiya Republican Party. The event was titled: “Bhima-

Koregaon Shourya Din – Elgar Parishad”. The petitioners claim that ‘Elgar’ is a

clarion call. The state reads into it a sinister symbolism of an attack. On 1

January 2018, a communal disturbance took place at Bhima-Koregaon when,

as the allegation goes, a group of Dalits was attacked in the process of offering

a salutation to the victory pillar. News of the incident spread across the state of

Maharashtra, resulting in a violent agitation in the state.

8 Following these incidents, a First Information Report in regard to the

incident was lodged on 8 January 2018 by one Tushar Damgude. The FIR

specifically names the following individuals: Sudhir Dhawale was arrested on 6 June 2018. As the investigation progressed,

Section 120B of the Penal Code was added on 6 March 2018 and two more

persons – Surendra Gadling and Rona Wilson - were suspected to be involved.

On 17 April 2018, the Pune police conducted searches at the residences and

offices of the following persons: On 6 June 2018 five persons were arrested namely: The counter affidavit filed by the Assistant Commissioner of Police states that

it is on the basis of the material recovered during the course of the search of

the above persons that the five individuals on whose behalf the present

proceedings have been instituted were found to be a part of the criminal

conspiracy. The averment in the counter reads as follows: 9 Unfolding his submissions, Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned senior

counsel stated that a First Information Report in respect of the violence which

took place on 1 January 2018 (FIR 2/2018) was lodged by Anita R Sawale at

PS Pimpri on 2 January 2018. The FIR alleges that violence was unleashed

against Dalits by a mob armed with swords, rods and other weapons. The FIR

specifically names Sambhaji Bhide, head of an organisation known as

Shivajinagar Pratishthan and Milind Ekbote, Chief of Hindu Janjagaran Samiti

as perpetrators and conspirators. Sambhaji Bhide has not been arrested while

Milind Ekbote is stated to have secured bail within a month of his arrest. The

FIR relates to offences under the Penal Code, Arms Act and the SC/ST Act2.

2 The Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 13 No provision of the UAPA has been invoked. Since the police were allegedly

not investigating the FIR, a writ petition has been filed before the Bombay High

Court3. FIR 4/2018 was lodged on 8 January 2018 at PS Vishrambagh by

Tushar Damgude who is alleged to be a self-professed follower of Sambhaji

Bhide. The FIR adverts to a speech delivered by Sudhir Dhawale at the Elgar

Parishad on 31 December 2017 in which allegedly an incendiary speech was

made, with the following lines: 3 Criminal Writ Petition 1875/2018 14 10 The next limb of the submission of Dr Singhvi is that certain letters which

are alleged to have been authored by the arrested activists are ex-facie

fabricated. These letters are alleged to have been recovered by the police from

the electronic devices of one of the accused who was raided in the month of

April 2018 and was arrested in June 2018. Shri Parambir Singh, Additional

Director General of Police (Law and Order), State of Maharashtra appeared in

a television programme called “Truth v Hype” on NDTV on 1 September 2018

and stated that the letters which were placed before the media by senior police

functionaries were yet to be verified. According to the petitioners, thirteen such

alleged letters were leaked to the media by the police during the course of press

briefings. They are now available in the public domain. These letters, it has been

submitted, do not find mention even in the transit applications filed by the Pune

police before the concerned court. The letters are unsigned and do not bear any

identifiable particulars including e-mail addresses or headers. Curiously, the

recovery is stated to have been made from the electronic devices of a third

person who is neither the author nor the addressee of the letters. Hence, it has

been urged that: Dr Singhvi has drawn the attention of the court to the consistent pattern and

history of the police targeting human rights activists and incarcerating them by

foisting false criminal cases. This is buttressed by adverting to the prosecutions

launched against three of the August 2018 detenues. Vara Vara Rao was

implicated in 25 cases out of which 13 ended in acquittal, 3 in discharge and 9

in the withdrawal of the prosecution. He has not been convicted in any case and

is 79 years of age. Arun Ferreira has been acquitted in all the 11 cases in which

he was implicated. Vernon Gonsalves has been acquitted in 17 out of the 19

cases in which he was accused; a discharge application is pending in one case

while an appeal against conviction in another case is pending before the Nagpur

bench of the High Court, where he has already served his sentence. 16 11 During the course of his submissions, Dr Singhvi urged that there was a

gross violation of law rendering the arrest, search and seizure unlawful. The

panch witnesses were ‘imported’ from Pune and are employees of the Pune

Municipal Corporation. The two panch witnesses travelled together with the

Pune police and are stock witnesses. Hence it has been submitted that there

has been a clear violation of the safeguards introduced in Section 41B of the

Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. In the transit remand application of Sudha

Bhardwaj, the Pune police submitted before the Court of the CJM, Faridabad on

28 August 2018 that her remand was necessary since other individuals who

were arrested in June 2018 had made disclosure statements in regard to

incitement of the riots in Koregaon. Significantly, no such disclosure has been

made by the arrested persons nor is there a mention of a Maoist conspiracy in

the alleged letters or in the remand application. 12 In summation, Dr Singhvi urged that each of the persons who were

arrested on 28 August 2018 is an active defender of human rights. They have

taken a position on human rights violations. The submission is that this targeted

persecution is meant to strike fear amongst human rights’ lawyers, activists and

writers to deter them from speaking against or critiquing governmental policies

and police actions. Persecution of this nature would, it has been urged, shake

the foundation of the rule of law and render the freedoms guaranteed by the

Constitution illusory. Learned counsel submitted that the purpose of these

proceedings is not to thwart an investigation but to ensure that the investigation 17 is fair and impartial. It was urged that in a long line of precedent, this Court has

ordered the constitution of Special Investigation Teams (SIT) or a court

monitored investigation under Article 32 of the Constitution. In the present case,

it was urged, that the facts which have been adverted to before the Court

indicate that the investigation has been anything but fair and impartial. The

targeting of human rights activists for their opposition to the governing regime

implicates a serious violation of democratic values and necessitates either the

setting up of a SIT or the monitoring of the investigation by this Court.

13 On the other hand, Mr Tushar Mehta, learned ASG has urged the

following submissions: (iii) A PIL under Article 32 would not be maintainable for the purpose of seeking

relief under Sections 438 and 439 of the Criminal Procedure Code; (iv) Reliefs in the nature of a writ of Habeas Corpus, which have been sought in

the present proceedings under Article 32 are not maintainable ( State of

Maharashtra v Tansen Rizwan Siddiquee10 ); (v) The accused does not have a vested right to seek an investigation monitored

by the court or to have a particular agency as the investigator; and (vi) The investigation in the present case is being conducted responsibly and

impartially by an officer of the rank of an Assistant Commissioner of Police. The

investigation is being carried out under the supervision of a Deputy

Commissioner of Police and is being monitored by the Joint Commissioner of

Police who is of the rank of an Additional Director General.

14 While entertaining these proceedings, this Court is conscious of the fact

that ordinarily, when an investigation into a criminal offence is in progress, rights

and remedies are provided by the Code of Criminal Procedure . Hence, it is but

trite law that in matters pertaining to or arising during the course of investigation

8 (2016) 12 SCC 375
9 (2008) 1 SCC 560
10 (2018) 10 SCALE 711 19 such as remand, bail (including anticipatory bail) and quashing of proceedings,

recourse must be taken to the provisions of the Code. These principles have

been highlighted in the decisions to which a reference has been made by the

ASG. In Rajiv Ranjan Singh (supra) the trial had commenced in a criminal

case involving a charge of amassing wealth disproportionate to the known

source of income of a public servant. This Court held that a PIL is not meant to

advance a political agenda and would be alien to pending criminal proceedings.

The petitioners were not de facto complainants and if at all they had a grievance

regarding the removal of a public prosecutor, they should have moved the

Special Judge or the High Court at the earliest point of time. The Court

emphasised that any interference at the behest of a third party was liable to

affect the course of justice and may even prejudice the accused by denying a

fair trial. In Gulzar Ahmed Azmi (supra) a petition under Article 32 sought an

investigation of all bomb blast cases since 2002 with a direction for the release

of the detenues on bail. In that context, this Court held that sufficient safeguards

were available under the criminal law and it was for the individual against whom

a criminal proceeding is lodged to work out his or her remedy. In Simranjit

Singh Mann (supra) the Court declined to exercise its jurisdiction under Article

32 where the petitioner did not seek to enforce his own fundamental rights but

the fundamental rights of two “condemned convicts” who had not themselves

complained of a violation. This Court noted that it was not open to “any and

every person” to challenge a conviction and unless the aggrieved individual

suffers from a disability recognised by law, it would be unsafe and hazardous to 20 allow a third party or stranger to question the correctness of a conviction and

sentence imposed after trial. These principles were also adverted to in the

earlier decision in Ashok Kumar Pandey (supra). They are well settled. As a

court which is governed by precedent, we are bound by them and by a

consistent line of authority which requires that during the course of investigation,

it is to the competent court that an accused must ordinarily turn for the remedies

that are available under substantive or procedural provisions of the criminal law.

15 But in the present case, it is necessary for the Court to bear in mind that

recourse to its constitutional jurisdiction under Article 32 has been invoked not

only by the petitioners but by the five individuals who were arrested on 28

August 2018. The petition was moved before this Court on 29 August 2018

when, as already noted, an interim order was passed directing that the five

arrested persons be placed under house arrest. At the earliest possible point in

time, these five individuals have moved this Court indicating that they abide by

the averments and reliefs sought in the petition and seek that they should be

transposed as petitioners under Article 32. The petitioners have not in their

submissions sought recourse to the jurisdiction of this Court for espousing a

remedy which is available before the competent court under the Code of

Criminal Procedure . These proceedings have been moved with a specific

grievance that the arrest of the five individuals is an attempt by the state to

muzzle dissent and that each of them is being persecuted for being a defender

of persons subjected to human rights’ violations. When the petition was initially 21 filed, the relief which was sought was in regard to the circumstances relating to

the arrest of the human rights activists. By an application for amendment, the

reliefs have been sought to be amended to inter alia seek the constitution of a

Special Investigating Team (to be monitored by this Court). For clarity, the

above reliefs are extracted below: 16 Though the prayer seeking the appointment of a Special Investigating

Team is sought to be introduced by way of an application for amendment, it is

necessary to note that in the petition as it was originally filed, it has been stated

that the object of the petition is not to stop an investigation but to ensure an

independent and credible investigation. The relevant averment in that regard

reads as follows: 17 This Court, as a constitutional adjudicator, has been entrusted with the

jurisdiction under Article 32 to secure the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by

Part III of the Constitution. While the discipline of the law of criminal procedure

must at all times be kept in view, it cannot be gainsaid that the protection of

fundamental liberties is a subject so integral to democratic constitutional values

that technicalities should not be allowed to override the cause of substantive

justice. The court must undoubtedly tread with circumspection for in the guise

of seeking access to its wide jurisdiction under Article 32 , the normal remedies

under the criminal law should not be displaced. Again, as the court has

repeatedly emphasised, public interest litigation should not become a weapon

for settling political scores or of pursuing extraneous ends. In the present case,

we have no manner of doubt that the initiation of the proceedings under Article

32 is not motivated by extraneous reasons. The law is not a respecter of social,

economic or political status and every litigant who seeks access to justice has

to be treated evenly. Here we have five citizens who have invoked the

jurisdiction of this Court in extraordinary circumstances where they claim that a 23 group of human rights activists has been targeted by the state police. Each of

those five individuals has joined in these proceedings.

18 Over the course of the last decade, the jurisdiction of this Court has

evolved under Article 32 to order the constitution of a SIT. In National Human

Rights Commission v State of Gujarat,11 a SIT was constituted in a matter

involving a serious element of communal disharmony. Further directions were

issued by this Court for regular status reports to be filed by the SIT (NHRC v

State of Gujarat12). In Ram Jethmalani v Union of India,13 this Court observed

that in several instances in the past, when the issues were of a complex nature,

yet requiring the intervention of the Court, SITs were ordered to be constituted

to enable the Court, the Union government and other organs of the state to fulfil

their constitutional obligations. In Common Cause v Union of India,14 the test

for the constitution of a SIT was a prima facie abuse of power and authority by

the Director of the Central Bureau of Investigation to scuttle an investigation and

enquiries into coal block allocations. In Sunita Devi v Union of India,15 an

independent and impartial SIT was constituted where it was found that the

investigation into the murder of a family was lackadaisical and the real culprits

had not been put to trial. These instances indicate the diversity of settings in

which this Court has ordered the constitution of SITs. Decisional flexibility in the

11 (2009) 6 SCC 342 12 (2009) 6 SCC 767
13 (2011) 8 SCC 1
14 (2017) 3 SCC 501
15 (2018) 3 SCC 664 24 exercise of this jurisdiction meets exigencies which arise in unforeseen

situations, warranting the intervention of this Court under Article 142. While the

Court does not determine the course of the investigation, it acts as a watchdog

to ensure that a fair and impartial investigation takes place. A fair and

independent investigation is crucial to the preservation of the rule of law and, in

the ultimate analysis to liberty itself. 19 Mr Harish Salve, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the

complainant, has sought to urge that a SIT has been constituted in cases where

there is an allegation against the political class in power, so that the investigation

is not derailed by those who are capable of intercepting it. Such a construction,

in my view, would restrict the width and ambit of the jurisdiction which has

advisedly been entrusted to this Court by the framers of the Constitution. The

fact that in a particular case, a SIT was ordered to be constituted in a situation

where there was an allegation of interference with the investigation by the

political establishment is not a reason to confine the exercise of the jurisdiction

only to such cases. In the rights discourse, violations of law and transgressions

of human rights arise in myriad situations which it may be difficult to anticipate

exhaustively. Prudently therefore, the jurisdiction under Article 32 is not hedged

in by technicalities nor would it be wise to confine it to stated categories. The

ultimate touchstone for the exercise of the jurisdiction is that a violation of the

fundamental human freedoms relatable to the cardinal values of liberty, dignity

and equality under Part III of the Constitution is in issue. 25 20 Besides the jurisdiction to order the constitution of a SIT, the proceedings

of this Court are replete with instances where an investigation has been

monitored under the authority of this Court. In Vineet Narain v Union of India,16 this Court in the context of the widely publicised Jain Hawala transactions case

ordered a court monitored investigation to ensure that government agencies

discharged their duties and functions bearing in mind the tenets of equality and

the rule of law. In doing so, this Court emphasised the need to retain public

confidence in the process of investigation. In Babubhai Jamnadas Patel v

State of Gujarat,17 a two judge Bench, while noting that investigation of

offences is normally the function of the investigating agency emphasised that

where extraordinary facts or situations are involved, it is the duty of the High

Courts and of this Court to intervene to ensure that the rights of citizens are duly

protected: 21 With this body of precedent on the subject, the maintainability of a prayer

for relief, seeking that the investigation should be either monitored by this Court

or should be entrusted to an independent SIT under the directions of this Court

cannot be in doubt. Though wide-ranging submissions have been urged before

this Court on merits, it is necessary that the court must eschew a detailed or

meticulous examination of the material produced by the ASG together with the

case diary, particularly when the investigation is in progress. The expression of

a finding by this Court would affect the administration of criminal justice or

perhaps in a given case, even the rights of the accused. The observations of

this Court must, therefore, be confined to assessing whether a case has been

made out for the constitution of a SIT and matters having a bearing on that

decision. 22 I must, at the outset, dwell on the fairness of the manner in which the

police have approached this investigation. On 29 August 2018, this Court issued

notices to the State of Maharashtra and to the others impleaded as respondents

to the proceedings. Within a few hours of the conclusion of the court hearing, a

press conference was held in Pune by Shivarjirao Bodhke, the Joint

Commissioner of Police proclaiming that the Pune police had more than 27 sufficient evidence against the five individuals whose transit remand was stayed

by this Court while ordering them to be placed under house arrest. This is

disconcerting behaviour – the Joint Commissioner sought in this oblique manner

to respond to the interim order of this Court by recourse to the electronic media.

On 31 August 2018, a press conference was addressed by a team of senior

police officers headed by Shri Parambir Singh, ADG (Law and Order),

Maharashtra. During the course of the press conference letters (many of which

should form part of the case diary) were selectively flashed and read out.

According to the petitioners they were also leaked to the media. A video of the

press conference is annexed in the form of a CD at Annexure R-2 of the

rejoinder and has been uploaded on

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PCVKfstx2Qc. On 1 September 2018 the

ADG (Law and Order) appeared on a television programme titled “Truth v Hype”

on NDTV, during the course of which he is stated to have agreed that the letters

which had been read out by him were still undergoing forensic analysis together

with the electronic devices. The CD of the programme is annexed as Annexure

R-3 to the rejoinder. Besides this, the attention of the Court has been drawn to

the fact that the first round of arrests in the present case took place on 6 June

2018. On 8 June 2018 an alleged letter was released by the police to the media

a little before the proceedings for remand before the competent court (in the

June arrests), alleging that the arrested persons were plotting to attack the

Prime Minister. On 4 July 2018 when the arrested persons were to be produced

before the Court in Pune, a letter attributed to Sudha Bhardwaj was 28 sensationally telecast on a television channel linking her with the unlawful

activities of certain groups. A serious grievance has been made about the fact

that these letters have neither been placed before the Court of law nor did they

find mention in the transit remand applications moved before the CJM,

Faridabad by the Pune police. 23 In Rajendran Chingaravelu v RK Mishra,20 this Court deprecated the

tendency of the police to reveal details of an investigation to the media even

before the completion of the investigation. This Court observed: 24 This facet of the case of serious concern. The manner in which the Joint

Commissioner of Police and the Additional Director General of Police (Law and

20 (2010) 1 SCC 457 29 Order), Maharashtra have selectively disclosed purported details of the

investigation to the media and on television channels casts a cloud on the

impartiality of the investigative process. In its 2010 decision in Rajendran

(supra) this Court was constrained to take note of this growing tendency on the

part of investigating agencies. The use of the electronic media by the

investigating arm of the State to influence public opinion during the pendency

of an investigation subverts the fairness of the investigation. The police are not

adjudicators nor do they pronounce upon guilt. In the present case, police

briefings to the media have become a source of manipulating public opinion by

besmirching the reputations of individuals involved in the process of

investigation. What follows is unfortunately a trial by the media. That the police

should lend themselves to this process is a matter of grave concern. The

investigation commenced as an enquiry into the Bhima-Koregaon violence. The

course of the investigation was sought to be deflected by alleging (in the course

of the press briefings of the police) that there was a plot against the Prime

Minister. Such an allegation is indeed of a serious order. Such allegations

require responsible attention and cannot be bandied about by police officers in

media briefings. But during the course of the present hearing, no effort has been

made by the ASG to submit that any such investigation is being conducted in

regard to the five individuals. On the contrary, he fairly stated that there was no

basis to link the five arrested individuals to any such alleged plot against the

Prime Minister. Nor does the counter affidavit makes any averment to that

effect. All this has certainly a bearing on the basic question as to whether the 30 Maharashtra police can now be trusted to carry out an independent and

impartial investigation. 25 During the course of the hearing, the learned ASG has assisted the Court

by tendering the case diary and a compilation of documentary material. As a

matter of prudence, the court must desist from adverting to the details contained

in the compilation or in the case diary save and except for indicating broad

reasons in the course of evaluating the reliefs which have been claimed. The

counter affidavit, which has been filed by the State of Maharashtra makes it

abundantly clear that the arrest of the five individuals (on 28 August 2018) was

based on “material gathered from others”. This adverts to the material alleged

to have been gathered in the course of the raids conducted against those

individuals who were arrested in the months of June and July 2018. Paragraph

26 of the counter (which has been extracted earlier) states that this material

“clearly shows that they were involved” in (i) selecting and incorporating cadres

to go underground in the ‘struggle area; (ii) mobilising and distributing money; (iii) facilitating selection and purchase of arms; (iv) deciding the rates of such

arms; and (v) suggesting the routes and ways of smuggling such arms into India

for its onward distribution amongst the cadres. 26 Next, it is alleged that “some of them” (i) “have suggested training and

laying of booby traps and directional mines”; and (ii) “are found to be providing

strategic inputs in furtherance of the objective of armed rebellion” in pursuance 31 of a strategic document of a banned terrorist organisation namely, the

Communist Party of India (Maoist). With the assistance of the ASG I have

carefully perused the compilation produced before the Court. Upon perusing the

material, I find that the allegation that each of the five individuals arrested on 28

August 2018 is found to be engaged in activities of the nature set out in

paragraph 26 of the counter affidavit (extracted above) is taking liberties with

the truth. General allegations against the philosophy of a banned organisation,

its policies and the modalities followed in the execution of its unlawful activities

constitute one thing. Linking this to specific activities of named individuals is a

distinct matter. At this stage, it is necessary to note the submission which has

been urged in regard to an undated letter of Sudha Bhardwaj to Comrade

Prakash which was also allegedly distributed to the media. There is a serious

bone of contention in regard to the authenticity of the letter which, besides being

undated, does not contain any details including the e-mail header. A statement

has been handed over the court in support of the submission that the letter is

an obvious fabrication made by a Marathi speaking person because in as many

as 17 places, it contains references to words scribed in Devanagari, using forms

peculiar to Marathi. It has been urged that Sudha Bhardwaj who does not belong

to Maharashtra and is not Marathi speaking, could not possibly have written a

letter in Devanagari utilising essentially Marathi forms of grammar or address.

We need not delve into these aspects at this stage, since they are matters for a

fair investigation. 27 One of the circumstances which must certainly bear upon the fairness

and impartiality of the process which has been followed by the investigating

agency is in regard to the importation of two panch witnesses from Pune, when

the arrests were carried out. Section 41B of Code of Criminal Procedure

emphasises the importance of an independent witness while making an arrest.

Section 41B of the Code provides as follows: 28 It was in DK Basu v State of West Bengal,21 that this Court laid down

requirements to be followed in all cases of arrest, which included the following: 29 There is a serious allegation that the arrests have been motivated by an

attempt to quell dissent and to persecute five individuals who have pursued the

cause of persons who have suffered discrimination and human rights violations.

In approaching the present case, the Court must be mindful of the need not to

thwart a criminal investigation leading to the detection of unlawful acts. Equally,

the Court has to be vigilant in the exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 32 to

ensure that liberty is not sacrificed at the altar of conjectures. Individuals who

assert causes which may be unpopular to the echelons of power are yet entitled

to the freedoms which are guaranteed by the Constitution. Dissent is a symbol

of a vibrant democracy. Voices in opposition cannot be muzzled by persecuting

those who take up unpopular causes. Where, however, the expression of

dissent enters upon the prohibited field of an incitement to violence or the

subversion of a democratically elected government by recourse to unlawful

means, the dissent ceases to be a mere expression of opinion. Unlawful

activities which violate the law have to be dealt with in accordance with it. In the

background which has been adverted to earlier, it would be blasé to accept the 34 submission that the investigation by the police should be allowed to proceed

without a safeguard for ensuring the impartiality and independence of the

investigative agency. The conduct of the Pune police in utilising the agency of

the electronic media to cast aspersions on those under investigation fortifies the

need for an investigation which is fair. When the Joint Commissioner of Police

and the Additional Director General of Police cast aspersions in the public media

against persons whose conduct is still under investigation, and in disregard of

proceedings pending before a judicial forum, it is the duty and obligation of this

Court to ensure that the administration of criminal justice is not derailed. I make

it absolutely clear that nothing in this order shall be construed as any

observation on the merits of the investigation which is to take place. The

purpose of the direction which I propose to give is to ensure that the basic

entitlement of every citizen who is faced with allegations of criminal wrongdoing,

is that the investigative process should be fair. This is an integral component of

the guarantee against arbitrariness under Article 14 and of the right to life and

personal liberty under Article 21. If this Court were not to stand by the principles

which we have formulated, we may witness a soulful requiem to liberty.

30 The judgment of the majority has relied on certain decisions to hold that

such a petition as in the present case is not maintainable and the prayer for the

constitution of SIT at the behest of the five individuals under investigation cannot

be entertained. In Narmada Bai v State of Gujarat,22 the petitioner filed a writ

22 (2011) 5 SCC 79 35 petition under Article 32 for issuance of a writ directing the CBI to register a FIR

in a case pertaining to an alleged fake encounter in which her son was killed.

The key issue was whether after filing of the charge-sheet by the state

investigative agency, this Court was precluded from appointing an independent

specialised agency like the CBI to go into the same issues, if the earlier

investigation was not done in accordance with the established procedure. The

factual determination to be carried out was whether the petitioner had made out

a case for entrusting the investigation to the CBI.

31 While this Court observed that “It is trite law that accused persons do not

have a say in the matter of appointment of an investigation agency” and that

“the accused persons cannot choose as to which investigation agency must

investigate the alleged offence committed by them”, the Court also observed

that there were “large and various discrepancies” in the reports and the

investigation conducted by the police authorities of the State of Gujarat and that

the charge-sheet filed by the state investigating agency could not be “said to

have run in a proper direction.” A two judge Bench of this Court concluded that

even though the charge-sheet had been filed, in view of the circumstances

brought to the notice of the Court, the involvement of the police officials of the

State of Gujarat in the investigation was “undesirable”. Thus, “to meet the ends

of justice and in the public interest”, the CBI was be directed to take charge of

the investigation. 32 This case supports my view that in the interest of justice, and particularly

when there are serious doubts regarding the investigation being carried out, it

is not only permissible, but our constitutional duty to ensure that the

investigation is carried out by a special investigation team or a special

investigative agency so that justice is not compromised.

33 In Sanjiv Rajendra Bhatt v Union of India,23 the petitioner, who was an

IPS officer filed a plea before this Court seeking the appointment of a SIT, to

probe into two FIRs filed against him by the Gujarat Police. On the facts of the

case, it was held that the nature of the case relating to an allegedly false affidavit

and the alleged hacking of an email account were not of such wide amplitude

so as to warrant the constitution of a SIT. The Court also observed that the

petitioner had not come to the Court with clean hands and that no relief could

be granted to an individual who came to the Court with “unclean hands.” These

facts were the distinguishing feature. I have previously discussed the

established precedents of this Court which indicate the circumstances in which

this Court can constitute a SIT. 34 In E Sivakumar v Union of India,24 the petitioner was named in an FIR

which was being investigated in regard to the illegal manufacture and sale of

pan masala and gutkha containing tobacco and/or nicotine. The petitioner

challenged the decision of the High Court to transfer the investigation of the

23 (2016) 1 SCC 1
24 (2018) 7 SCC 365 37 criminal case to the Central Bureau of Investigation. One of us (Khanwilkar J)

who authored the judgment on behalf of this Bench held: 25 Ibid, at para 5
26 Ibid, at para 9
27 Ibid, at para 13 38 The above observations are a significant reminder of the function of this Court,

as the protector of the fundamental rights of citizens. These rights must be

safeguarded particularly when there is a possibility that failure to take a position

may lead to a denial of justice. 35 The case of Divine Retreat Centre v State of Kerala28 concerned with

the maintainability of an anonymous petition to a judge of the High Court seeking

a direction for an investigation. The anonymous petition was taken up suo motu

by the High Court under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the

investigation of the criminal case was directed to be taken away from the

investigating officer and entrusted to a SIT. The central question in this case

was the scope of the inherent power conferred on the High Court under Section

482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It was held that: The facts of the above case are distinct from the case at hand. The observations

made on the maintainability of public interest litigation only lend support to the

present case. The petitioners in the present case are not anonymous. There

has been no argument that the petitioners have been motivated by personal

gain or political considerations. 37 Recently on 14 September 2018, the learned Chief Justice, speaking for

the present bench of three Judges handed down a verdict31 granting

29 Ibid, at para 59
30 Ibid, at para 50
31 S Nambi Narayanan v Siby Mathews , (2018) 11 SCALE 171 40 compensation of Rs 50 lakhs to a space scientist who was found upon further

investigation by the CBI to have been wrongfully implicated and subjected to

custodial interrogation. This was on an allegation that he had leaked out official

secrets of the Indian Space Research Organisation. The learned Chief Justice

held: 32 ( 1989) 1 SCC 494
33 (1991) 4 SCC 406 41 Kumar v State of UP34 and DK Basu v State of West Bengal35 . In DK Basu,

this Court elucidated on the importance of personal liberty in the constitutional

scheme: 34 (1994) 4 SCC 260
35 (1997) 1 SCC 416 42 39 This Court has a constitutional obligation, where its attention has been

drawn, in a case such as the present, to a real likelihood of the derailment of a

fair investigative process to issue appropriate directions under Article 142 of the

Constitution. 40 Hence, I am of the view that while the investigation should not be

thwarted, this is a proper case for the appointment of a Special Investigating

Team. Circumstances have been drawn to our notice to cast a cloud on whether

the Maharashtra police has in the present case acted as fair and impartial

investigating agency. Sufficient material has been placed before the Court

bearing on the need to have an independent investigation.

41 Hence, following the line of precedent of this Court which has been

discussed earlier, I am firmly of the view that a Special Investigating Team must

be appointed. The investigation shall be monitored by this Court. The Special

Investigating Team shall submit periodical status reports to this Court, initially

on a monthly basis.36 The interim order passed by this Court on 29 August 2018

shall continue to hold the field for a further period of three weeks within which it

would be open to the said five individuals or any one or more of them to apply

for bail before the Court of competent jurisdiction. I would direct that the petition

36Speaking as I do for the minority, I have not indicated the names of the personnel who would constitute the SIT.
Should that occasion arise, liberty is granted to seek an appropriate direction from this Court. 43 be listed after three days for orders on the constitution of the Special

Investigating Team. There shall be an order in these terms. …….........................................................J
 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud]

New Delhi; September 28, 2018