This case was registered in the Central Bureau of

Investigation on 20.02.2004 against accused Puran Singh ,

Gaurav Aggarwal and Abdul Karim Telgi on the basis of a

complaint submitted by Inspector B.S. Jha of Central Bureau

of Investigation. 2. In the FIR, it is alleged that accused Puran Singh

Inspector Delhi Police along with Gaurav Aggarwal Sub

Inspector Delhi Police and others conspired with accused

Abdul Karim Telgi and others during 1999-2001 and in

furtherance of aforesaid conspiracy, aided and abetted the

offences of printing and selling counterfeit stamps of

Government of India as genuine to various business houses

causing huge monetary gain to themselves and 3 A.C. No. 05/2005 corresponding loss to the Government. It is also alleged that

Puran Singh Inspector while conducting investigation in case

FIR no. 803/99, PS Defence Colony, New Delhi along with

Gaurav Aggarwal and others came in contact with accused

Abdul Karim Telgi. Puran Singh Inspector and Gaurav

Aggarwal Sub Inspector entered into a criminal conspiracy

with accused Abdul Karim Telgi and others during 1999-

2001 with the object to sell counterfeit stamps of

Government of India as genuine stamps to various business

houses which were printed by accused Abdul Karim Telgi.

Puran Singh Inspector and Gaurav Aggarwal Sub Inspector,

in furtherance of the aforesaid criminal conspiracy,

knowingly and deliberately kept accused Abdul Karim Telgi

out of the purview of investigation. Besides favouring accused

Abdul Karim Telgi, even when one Sh. Anand wanted in case

FIR no. 803/99, PS Defence Colony was arrested, Puran

Singh did not investigate/file charge sheet against him. 3. It was further alleged that Puran Singh Inspector

illegally checked the stock of stamps of various companies 4 A.C. No. 05/2005 without any basis by abusing his position as public servant.

Accused Abdul Karim Telgi, in furtherance of the aforesaid

criminal conspiracy, supplied counterfeit Foreign Bill Stamps

of Rs.1,50,000/- to M/s Ranbaxy Laboratory Ltd through his

men working in M/s Unique Consultants, Delhi. These

stamps were reportedly sent to Hong Kong & Shanghai

Banking Corporation along with documents. Puran Singh

visited Hong Kong & Shanghai Banking Corporation,

Connaught Place, New Delhi on 06.12.00 in connection with

the investigation of case FIR no. 803/99, PS Defence Colony.

He checked and declared the Foreign Bill Stamps presented

along with documents by M/s Ranbaxy Laboratory Ltd. to be

bogus and issued instructions to the said bank to keep the

same in safe custody but did not investigate the matter any

further. Puran Singh on 07.12.00 visited the office of M/s

Ranbaxy Laboratory Ltd, Devika Tower, Nehru Place, New

Delhi and checked the available stock of Foreign Bill Stamps.

He declared the same to be fake and seized the same. On

08.12.00, Puran Singh Inspector caught Prehlad Singh, 5 A.C. No. 05/2005 delivery boy of M/s Blue Star Services without following the

due legal procedure and got a case FIR No. 878/00 , PS

Kalkaji, New Delhi registered by abusing his position. It was

further alleged that during the course of investigation of

counterfeit stamp cases Puran Singh Inspector and Gaurav

Aggarwal Sub Inspector (dismissed ) did various illegal acts

by preparing seizure memos, recording false statements etc

and facilitated accused Abdul Karim Telgi to expand his

racket of counterfeit stamps. It was further alleged that

Puran Singh Inspector accepted illegal gratification and

abused his position as Police Officer to obtain wrongful gain

for himself and demanded/accepted cash of Rs. 2,95,000/-

from Narender Singh accused in FIR no. 878/00, PS Kalkaji,

New Delhi by allowing him to withdraw the amount by four

cheques from the Corporation Bank, CGO Complex, New

Delhi, while he was in police custody on 11.01.01. It is

further alleged that Puran Singh Inspector had accepted

huge amounts from others who figured in counterfeit cases

being investigated by him for not performing his duty or 6 A.C. No. 05/2005 showing favours otherwise. After the investigation a charge

sheet was filed against accused Puran Singh Inspector,

Gaurav Aggarwal Sub Inspector , Abdul Karim Telgi, Om

Prakash Head Constable, Rattan Singh Constable and Sanjay

Bajad Constable. In this charge sheet it is alleged that based

on the available evidence in the instant case three separate

conspiracies have to be hatched by the accused persons. The

present charge sheet relates to the first, which has been

described as under:- VII, which were seized from the office of Marina

Services/Shara Enterprises by the CID CB and a copy of one

such false/fictitious House/office search Memo was handed

over to the IO of the said case by Sh. M. Mohana Peruman,

Manager (Claims), LIC of India, Divisional Office, Sellur,

Madurai, Tamil Nadu along with the correspondence file of

LIC, Madurai. Investigations also revealed that the above

said two House Search Memos and House/Office Search

Memo dated 01.06.01 do not find any mention in the Case

Diary file of FIR no. 878/00 PS Kalkaji, New Delhi

investigated by Puran Singh Inspector. Even no case diary 11 A.C. No. 05/2005 for 01.06.01 in FIR no. 878/00 PS Kalkaji, New Delhi has

been issued by the accused Puran Singh Inspector who was

the Investigating Officer of the case. Investigations revealed

that there were three search memos , first in respect of the

Marina Services at X-42, Shop No. 9, Second Avenue,

Sindoor Shopping Centre, Anna Nagar West, Chennai,

second in respect of the residential premises of Nizamuddin,

Proprietor of Marina Services at House No-R-217, Anna

Nagar, Chennai and third in respect of M/s Shara

Enterprises in which Saira Banno was working. These

memos were prepared by Puran Singh Inspector at the

behest of Abdul Karim Telgi on an occasion when Puran

Singh had visited Chennai along with Abdul Karim Telgi, with

a view to facilitate the fake stamp business of Abdul Karim

Telgi in the State of Tamil Nadu. Accused Abdul Karim Telgi

used to insist that the said memos have been obtained by

him from Puran Singh Inspector by paying him huge sums

of money and the same should be utilized frequently to

enhance the sale of fake stamps and for obtaining orders etc. 12 A.C. No. 05/2005 from various clients including LIC, a potential client of

Insurance Policy Stamps. 5. I have heard the Learned Special P.P for CBI and

Learned Counsels for the accused persons on the question of

framing of charges. 6. Learned Special P.P for CBI has argued that

accused Puran Singh Inspector, Gaurav Aggarwal Sub

Inspector, Om Prakash Head Constable, Rattan Singh and

Sanjay Bajad Constables were posted in the District Crime

Cell, South District. Case FIR no. 803/99, PS Defence

Colony and Case FIR no.878/00, PS Kalkaji, New Delhi were

being investigated by Puran Singh Inspector. Accused Om

Prakash Head Constable , Ct Rattan Singh and Ct. Sanjay

Bajad were in the team of Puran Singh Inspector for

investigation of these cases. Accused Gaurav Aggarwal Sub

Inspector who had also been posted in the District Crime

Cell, South District was dismissed on 11.02.2000 and was

reinstated on 12.02.01. Various recovery memos were

prepared by Gaurav Aggarwal Sub Inspector during the 13 A.C. No. 05/2005 period he was dismissed. Puran Singh Inspector seized

several stamps from Ranbaxy Laboratory Limited on

08.12.00 vide D32/01. The expert opinion about the fake

stamps shows that it had been supplied by Unique Agencies

of accused Abdul Karim Telgi. Puran Singh Inspector did not

take any further action and did not investigate the matter

further in this respect. 7. Learned Special P.P for CBI has referred to the

statement of Sh.Vijay Dattatreya Salunkhe @ Patil (PW No.

12, charge sheet No. 1) and has argued that this witness was

working for accused Abdul Karim Telgi in conducting his

business of counterfeit stamps and his statement shows that

accused Abdul Karim Telgi in connivance with Puran Singh

Inspector and other accused persons had helped in

obtaining his bail from the court on 29.01.01. 8. Learned Special P.P for CBI has also referred to the

statement of PW Khacheroo Khan (PW No.6, Charge Sheet

No.1) from whose residence at Dakshin Puri , Puran Singh

Inspector has shown the recovery of fake stamps. The 14 A.C. No. 05/2005 statement of the witness shows that Puran Singh Inspector

has picked up Khacheroo Khan from his residence on the

ground that one Prehlad had told Puran Singh that

Khacheroo Khan had kept fake stamps in his residence and

the matter needed investigation. The witness was brought to

the office of Puran Singh Inspector at Nehru Place where

Khacheroo Khan was detained in that office for about 2

hours and was asked to sign on 2-3 blank papers and then

he was allowed to go. The statement of this witness is

corroborated by the statement of Ct. Darshan Singh (PW No.

14 Charge Sheet No.1), who was working as driver with

Puran Singh Inspector during the investigation of FIR No.

803/99, PS Defence Colony and FIR No. 878/00 PS Kalkaji,

New Delhi. He has stated that he had taken Puran Singh

Inspector to places like HSBC and Dakshin Puri etc. PW

Sh. Rajesh Meena (PW No. 13 Charge Sheet No.1) has also

stated that on most of the occasions seizure formalities were

completed by Puran Singh Inspector after coming back to the

office and not on the spot. On 08.12.00 Sh. Khacheroo 15 A.C. No. 05/2005 Khan of Dakshin Puri and his son were brought to the office

of DIU/DCC, Nehru Place and paper/seizure formalities

relating to seizure of fake stamps at the instance of accused

Prehlad Singh were completed by Gaurav Aggarwal Sub

Inspector in the office of DIU/DCC, Nehru Place, New Delhi.

Gaurav Aggarwal Sub Inspector was under dismissal at that

time but most of the time he used to write all the

investigation documents of Puran Singh Inspector including

his case diaries , seizure memos and disclosure statements

etc. Gaurav Aggarwal Sub Inspector had also gone to

Dakshin Puri along with Puran Singh Inspector and the

team. This witness was also a member of the team.

Signatures of Khacheroo Khan were obtained on some white

blank papers in the office of DIU/DCC, Nehru Place on the

said date. 9. Learned Special P.P has also referred to the

statement of PW Jai Kishan Singh @ Bangali (PW No. 7

Charge Sheet No.1) who was earlier an associate of accused

Abdul Karim Telgi. On 08.10.00, Jai Kishan Singh @ Bangali 16 A.C. No. 05/2005 had gone to Indore. On the next day i.e. 09th October, 2000,

he was informed by his wife that officers from Mumbai Crime

Branch were looking for him. He thought that Abdul Karim

Telgi might have implicated him in some case. He went to

Mumbai to ask Abdul Karim Telgi about the matter. In the

mean time, a false recovery of fake stamps worth Rs. 18 lacs

were effected from his house and his wife was arrested. It

appears that Jai Kishan Singh @ Bangali and accused Abdul

Karim Telgi fell apart after this incident. This witness has

also stated that accused Abdul Karim Telgi had implicated

him in the recovery of false stamps by Puran Singh Inspector.

Accused Abdul Karim Telgi paid a bribe of Rs. 10 lacs to

accused Puran Singh Inspector in his presence. The witness

has also stated that during his police remand from 19.01.01

to 23.01.01, he was asked by Puran Singh Inspector to sign

25-26 blank papers in the presence of Gaurav Aggarwal Sub

Inspector. He had to sign these blank papers as he was in

Police Custody. Puran Singh Inspector was insisting that

this witness should admit that he was an associate of one 17 A.C. No. 05/2005 Hemant Dubey , who was a rival in business of accused

Abdul Karim Telgi. 10. Learned Special P.P for CBI has also referred to the

statement of PW Mohd. Gaus Maulali Shingavi @ Gaus (PW

No. 8 charge sheet No.1) who has corroborated the evidence

of Jai Kishan Singh @ Bangali to the effect that accused

Abdul Karim Telgi gave a big suitcase to Shanker and asked

him to accompany Inspector Puran Singh and to show

recovery of the same from Babu Bhai @ Jai Kishan Singh @

Bangali Babu. Accusd Abdul Karim Telgi asked him to drop

Inspector Puran Singh , Shanker and the said suitcase to the

Hotel Gulf where Puran Singh was staying. Accused Abdul

Karim Telgi also gave some money wrapped in a paper and

kept in a polythene (plastic bag) to Shanker. 11. Reference has also been made to the statement of

PW Surendra Vasantrao Wavare an advocate of Nasik (PW

No. 9 Charge Sheet No. 1), who was made to sign on some

blank papers which have been later on used for preparing the

recovery memos against the accused Jai Kishan Singh @ 18 A.C. No. 05/2005 Bangali. 12. Reference has also been made to the statement of

PW Shanker Singh @ Shiv Shanker Singh (PW No. 10 Charge

Sheet No.1) to show that bribe was given by accused Abdul

Karim Telgi to Inspector Puran Singh and Inspector Puran

Singh planted false recoveries at the behest of accused Abdul

Karim Telgi. 13. Learned Special P.P for CBI has also referred to the

statement of PW Rajender Singh (PW No. 15 Charge Sheet

No. 1) who was working as APS to Shri Ram Jethmalani , the

then Minister of Urban Development to show the complicity

of Puran Singh Inspector and accused Abdul Karim Telgi. 14. With respect to the second charge sheet , the

Learned Special P.P for CBI has referred to the statement of

Saira Banno (PW No. 2 Supplementary Charge Sheet) who

had been appointed by one Abdul Wahid who was Managing

Marina Services & Bharath Enterprises and Balaji in Bharath

Enterprises , Moor Street, Mannady as Tele Marketing girl.

Balaji was the in-charge of the Bharath Enterprises. This 19 A.C. No. 05/2005 office was controlled by accused Abdul Karim Telgi known as

Big Boss. She was later on transferred as the Manager of the

new company known as Shara Enterprises , which was

launched in November 2000. These companies were

supplying stamps to the offices of LIC etc. Their potential

clients were different insurance companies i.e. Oriental

Insurance Company., United India Insurance, National

Insurance Co. and New India Assurance Co. and the main

client was LIC. During the month of June-July 2001, Wahid

had given to all the Marketing Executives of Shara

Enterprises & Marina Services, photocopies of three

memos/letters issued by Inspector Puran Singh of Delhi

police under his seal and signatures to the effect that he had

conducted searches in Shara Enterprises/Marina

Services/residential Premises of Nizamuddin and no

counterfeit stamps etc. except genuine stamps were found.

Marketing Executives were directed by Wahid to show copies

of the said Memos /letters of Puran Singh to all the LIC

offices and other clients for obtaining orders of stamps and to 20 A.C. No. 05/2005 make them belief that the stamps supplied by M/s Shara

Enterprises/Marina Enterprises were genuine Government

stamps. The said memos /letters were prepared on one

occasion on the request of accused Abdul Karim Telgi , with a

view to eliminate the business rivals/main competitors of

Telgi in Chennai who were engaged in supply of Insurance

policy stamps to LIC, the most potential buyer of the said

stamps. One Krishnamoorthy (husband of stamp vendor

Andalamma) who was their man competitor in Chennai had

already been arrested by Puran Singh Inspector on the

request of accused Abdul Karim Telgi and after the arrest of

Krishnamoorthy , fake stamps business of accused Abdul

Karim Telgi had flourished in Chennai like anything. In the

meetings attended by this witness, accused Abdul Karim

Telgi used to tell that Inspector Puran Singh of Delhi Police

was his very good friend who was helping him in his business

of fake stamps all over India and that the Memos/letters

issued by Puran Singh Inspector should be utilized for

expanding his business of fake stamps and obtaining the 21 A.C. No. 05/2005 orders of stamps from different clients. 15. Reference has also been made to the statement of

PW Sh. M. Mohanna Perumal (PW No. 6 Supplementary

Charge Sheet) who was working as Manager (Claims ) LIC of

India, Divisional Office, Sellur, Madurai, Tamil Nadu. He has

stated that the copy of the House Search Memo dated

01.06.01 was given to LIC, Madurai Division by the

Marketing Executive of the above said firms i.e Marina

Services/Shara Enterprises in order to convince the LIC

authorities that they (Marina Enterprises/Shara Enterprises)

were dealing in genuine government stamps only and

therefore the same was available in the said correspondence

file of LIC which was seized by Inspector Karmyal of CBI.

Learned Special P.P for CBI has argued that from the above

evidence a prima facie case is made out against the accused

persons with respect to the allegations made in the two

charge sheets. Learned Special P.P for CBI has also

referred to the various case diaries recorded by Inspector

Puran Singh to show that accused Rattan Singh Ct., Sanjay 22 A.C. No. 05/2005 Bajad Ct. were members of his team who have signed on

various memos and had accompanied him to Mumbai on

several occasions. Learned Special P.P for CBI has also

referred to the document bearing No. D59 and D-60 of the

first charge sheet to show that Gaurav Aggarwal Sub

Inspector was dismissed on 11.02.2000 and was reinstated

on 12.02.01. He has referred to the various reports on

document sent to CFSL to show that various recovery memos

have been prepared by Gaurav Aggarwal Sub Inspector

during this period when he was dismissed from service. He

has also referred to the case diaries of Inspector Puran Singh

to show that HC Om Prakash was also an active member of

team of Puran Singh and the persons arrested by Puran

Singh were kept in his custody. 16. It has been argued on behalf of accused Puran

Singh that the present case relates to the alleged fabrication

of some disclosure statements and recovery memos by the

accused and a criminal conspiracy to commit offences under section 193 and 211 IPC. The said offences are alleged to 23 A.C. No. 05/2005 have been committed in relation to criminal proceedings

which were tried to be by a Court of Law . Hence no Court

could take cognizance of the offences without the complaint

in writing of the Court by which the said offences were triable

by virtue of section 195 (b) (1) IPC. 17. It has further been argued on behalf of accused

Puran Singh that the allegations made against him about the

false implication of Jai Kishan Singh @ Bangali,

Krishnamoorthy, Andalamma and T.R. Babu etc. are false in

as much as the CBI has filed a charge sheet in the case FIR

no. 878/00 PS Kalkaji, New Delhi in (RC 2003E 0002 Dated

29.09.03) against Narender Singh and Prehlad Singh . In

this charge sheet, names of the aforesaid for accused persons

exists in Coloumn No. 2 which relates to the accused

arrested or not but not sent up for trial. Their fate is yet to be

decided by the Trial Court. The CBI has not moved any

application for their discharge so far. It is further argued

that the aforesaid persons are not innocent persons but they

are the active scam runners. They were arrested with 24 A.C. No. 05/2005 sufficient documentary proof of fake stamps. Jai Kishan

Singh @ Bangali was running the perforating machine to

punch the fake stamp sheets. He had purchased the

machine in the name of this firm from India Security Press

Nasik in an auction. He was arrested in the case by Puran

Singh on 09.01.01 and remained in Police Custody till

23.01.01. He was then sent to jail and was admitted on bail

by the Court on 08.03.01 but was again taken into custody

by Nasik Police from the Jail on 24.03.01 in a case registered

against him. His wife and other employees were already

arrested by Nasik Police and Jai Kishan Singh @ Bangali was

the absconder in the case of Nasik. Followed by his

disclosure, fake stamps of Rs. 12.97 crores were recovered

from him. He is still languishing in Pune Jail under

MACOCA in other fake stamp cases and CBI has given him

clean chit and cited him as a PW against the accused Puran

Singh in this case. It is further alleged that Krishnamoorthy

is the husband of Ms. Andalamma, a stamp vendor of

Chennai, who was supplying fake stamps to LIC Chennai. 25 A.C. No. 05/2005 Followed by the disclosure of Jai Kishan Singh @ Bangali,

fake stamps of Rs. 1.17 lac were seized from three branch

offices of LIC Chennai and with the documentary proof , he

was arrested on 31.01.01. He remained in Police Custody till

11.02.01 and then sent to Jail. He was granted bail on

02.03.01. After his bail from Delhi case, he was also arrested

by Hyderabad Police in other similar case of fake stamps. He

remained in Pune Jail also. CBI has given him clean chit

and cited him PW against the accused Puran Singh in this

case. Ms. Andalamma was the stamp vendor, who was

supplying fake stamps to LIC Chennai. She was admitted on

anticipatory bail by the Delhi Court on 03.04.01 and was

formally arrested in the case on 19.05.01 by Puran Singh

Inspector. Similarly T.R. Babu who was the employee of

Krishnamoorthy and Andalamma, was arrested in the case

along with Krishnamoorthy on 31.01.01. He remained in

Police Custody till 02.02.01 and then sent to Jail. He was

granted bail by the court on 19.03.01. The aforesaid presons

have criminal history and they are not innocent. The CBI 26 A.C. No. 05/2005 has falsely given them a clean chit to show that they were

falsely implicated by accused Puran Singh while investigating

the aforesaid cases in his capacity as an Inspector of Delhi

Police. He cannot be tried for the alleged offences committed

by him during the course of his duties without the necessary

sanction under section 197 Cr.PC and 140 of Delhi Police

Act . 18. It has been argued on behalf of accused Rattan

Singh Constable ,Sanjay Bajad Constable , Om Prakash Head

Constable and Gaurav Aggarwal Sub Inspector that there

are no allegations of making demand of bribe or acceptance

of any bribe by these accused persons. Accused Rattan

Singh Constable, and Sanjay Bajad Constable were merely

assisting accused Puran Singh Inspector and they were not

aware of the conspiracy between accused Puran Singh

Inspector and accused Abdul Karim Telgi. It has been

argued on behalf of Om Prakash Head Constable that he had

not signed on any documents such as the recovery memos or

disclosure statements. There is no evidence to involve him in 27 A.C. No. 05/2005 the offences alleged against the co-accused persons. 19. There are two pairs of sections relating to the

discharge of an accused or framing of charge against the

accused with which we are concerned. As Special Judge

trying offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 ,

has to try the cases following the procedure prescribed for

trial of warrant cases by a Magistrate. The relevant sections

in this regard are Section 227 and 228 Cr.PC, which read as

under:- " Section 227 Cr.PC- Discharge:- If, upon

 consideration of the record of the case and the

 documents submitted therewith, and after

 hearing and submissions of the accused and the

 prosecution in this behalf, the Judge considers that

 there is not sufficient ground for proceeding against

 the accused, he shall discharge the accused and

 record his reasons for so doing." 20. The relevant sections during a session trial are sections 239 and 240 Cr.PC, which are as under:- 29 A.C. No. 05/2005 21. After considering the provision of the aforesaid

sections, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of

Maharashtra etc. Vs. Som Nath Thapa etc. reported as

1996 Crl. L. J. 2448 has held that if there is ground for

presuming that the accused has committed the offence, a

Court can justifiably say that a prima facie case against him

exists, and so, frame charge against him for committing that

offence. In Black's Law Dictionary word "presume" has been

defined to mean " to believe or accept upon probable evidence" 22. Thus while considering the allegations against the

accused persons for the purposes of framing of charges, the

Court has to see whether there are grounds for presuming

that the accused had committed the offence and with this in

view let us consider the evidence, which has been gathered

during investigation by the police. 23. Statements of PWs Khacheroo Khan, Mohd. Gaus

Maulali Shingavi @ Gaus show that accused Abdul Karim

Telgi had given bribe money to accused Puran Singh .

Accused Abdul Karim Telgi had also given a big suitcase to

Shanker and asked him to accompany Inspector Puran Singh

and to show recovery of the same from Babu Bhai @ Jai 32 A.C. No. 05/2005 Kishan Singh @ Bangali Babu. Puran Singh Inspector acting

on these directions of accused Abdul Karim Telgi and in

pursuance of the conspiracy, planted a recovery of fake

stamps from Jai Kishan Singh @ Bangali for worth Rs. 13

crores 8.80 lacs on 16.01.01. The statements also show that

the signatures of Jai Kishan Singh @ Bangali were obtained

on blank papers. The evidence also shows that Puran

Singh Inspector had prepared fictitious disclosure statements

of Prehlad Singh dated 09.12.00, pointing out cum seizure

memo dated 08.12.00, pointing out cum seizure memo dated

10.12.00 showing the recovery of fake stamps etc from the

house of PW Khacheroo Khan. Puran Singh Inspector has

shown the false recovery of Attachy Case containing

counterfeit stamps worth Rs. 12 crores 97 lacs and 5

thousands. These memos have been signed by Sanjay Bajad

Constable and Rattan Singh Constable as witnesses. Their

involvement in the conspiracy can therefore be presumed

because they had been associated with Puran Singh

Inspector during the entire investigation of case FIR no. 33 A.C. No. 05/2005 803/99, PS Defence Colony, New Delhi and FIR No. 878/00,

PS Kalkaji, New Delhi . Both Sanjay Bajad and Rattan Singh

Constables were aware of the fact that the recoveries have

not been effected from the accused persons but have signed

as attesting witnesses on the memos. These fake memos

have been prepared by Gaurav Aggarwal Sub Inspector, who

was dismissed from the service at the relevant time. 24. So far as the involvement of accused Om Prakash

Head Constable is concerned, Learned Special P.P for CBI

has drawn my attention to the various Station Diaries filed

with the supplementary charge sheet showing that the

accused Jai Kishan Singh @ Bangali was kept in the custody

of Om Prakash Head Constable Sanjay Bajad Constable and

Rattan Singh Constable during the period these fake

recoveries were made by accused Puran Singh Inspector, he

was an active member of the team of Puran Singh. He had

gone to Mumbai along with Puran Singh Inspector, Sanjay

Bajad Constable, Rattan Singh Constable on several

occasions. One such departure entry dated 06.01.01 has 34 A.C. No. 05/2005 been pointed out by Learned Special P.P for CBI during the

arguments. This is the time when alleged conspiracy took

place between accused Puran Singh and accused Abdul

Karim Telgi. Learned Special P.P for CBI has also pointed

out that several Air Tickets were recovered from accused

Puran Singh Inspector showing that he had gone to Mumbai

and various places by air but had not claimed any traveling

expenses or other charges from his office. 25. The statements of Saira Banno and M. Mohana

Peruman, Manager (Claims), LIC of India, Divisional Office,

Sellur, Madurai, Tamil Nadu show that accused Puran Singh

at the instance of accused Abdul Karim Telgi had searched

the premises of Shara Enterprises/Marina

Services/residential Premises of Nizamuddin on 01.06.01

and prepared three memos/letters under his seal and

signatures to the effect that he had conducted searches in

Shara Enterprises/Marina Services/residential Premises of

Nizamuddin and no counterfeit stamps etc. except genuine

stamps were found . The evidence also show that these 35 A.C. No. 05/2005 memos/letters were used by aforesaid concerns of accused

Abdul Karim Telgi to enhance their business and were

submitted to LIC to procure orders. Prima facie the

involvement of Puran Singh Inspector in the conspiracy to

help accused Abdul Karim Telgi in his business is also made

out. 26. The first question which has been raised on behalf

of accused is the necessity of a complaint under section 195 (i) (b) of Cr.PC . Learned Counsel for the accused have relied

on the judgment in the case of Kamlapati Trivedi Vs. The

State of West Bengal reported as AIR 1979 Supreme

Court 777 and it has been pointed out that while Section

190 of the Criminal Procedure Code enumerates the conditions

requisite for initiation of proceedings. Section 195 bars taking

cognizance of certain offences except on complaint by

authorities specified in the Section. Section 195 (1) (a) requires

that the complaint should be by a public servant if the offences

complained of are under Ss. 172 to 188 of the Indian Penal

Code . Sub-sec (1) (b) refers to offences under Ss. 193, 194, 36 A.C. No. 05/2005 195, 196, 199, 200,205, 206, 207, 208, 209, 210, 211 and

228 and requires the complaint in writing of the Court before

whom the offences is alleged to have been committed in or in

relation to any proceeding in any Court. 27. The Learned Counsel for the accused have argued

that since fake recovery memos were allegedly prepared by

Puran Singh Inspector, they were in relation to the

proceedings before a court, a complaint by the competent

court is necessary. 28. In the case of Iqbal Singh Marwah and another

Vs. Meenakshi Marwah and another reported as AIR

2005 SC 2119. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that Section 195 (1) (b) (ii) Cr.P.C. would be attracted only when the

offences enumerated in the said provision have been

committed with respect to a document after it has been

produced or given in evidence in a proceeding in any Court i.e.

during the time when the document was in custodia legis. Broadly, S.195 Cr.PC deals with three distinct

categories of offences which have been described in cls. (a) ,(b) 37 A.C. No. 05/2005 (i) and (b) (ii) and they relate to (1) contempt of lawful authority

of public servants, (2) offences against public justice, and (3)

offences relating to documents given in evidence. Cl. (a) deals

with offences punishable under Ss. 172 to 188 IPC which

occur in Chap.X of the IPC and the heading of the Chapter is -'Of Contempts of the Lawful Authority of Public Servants' The

offences mentioned in this clause clearly relate to giving or

fabricating false evidence or making a false declaration in any

judicial proceeding or before a court of justice or before a

public servant who is bound or authorized by law to receive

such declaration, and also to some other offences which have

a direct co-relation with the proceedings in a Court of Justice

(Ss. 205 and 211 IPC ). This being the scheme of two

provisions or clauses of S.195, viz., that the offence should be

such which has direct bearing or affects the functioning or

discharge of lawful duties of a public servant or has a direct

co-relation with the proceedings in a court of justice, the

expression "when such offence is alleged to have been

committed in respect of a document produced or given in

evidence in a proceeding in a Court" occurring in cl. (b) (ii) 38 A.C. No. 05/2005 should normally mean commission of such an offence after the

document has actually been produced or given in evidence in

the Court. The situation or contingency where an offence as

enumerated in this clause has already been committed earlier

and later on the document is produced or is given in evidence

in Court, does not appear to be in tune with cls. (a) (i) and (b) (i) and consequently with the scheme of S.195 Cr.PC. This

indicates that cl. (b) (ii) contemplates a situation where the

offences enumerated therein are committed with respect to a

document subsequent to its production or giving in evidence in

a proceeding in any Court. 29. Since these documents had not been produced in

the Court when the offences alleged under section 193 and 211 IPC were committed. There is no need for a complaint

by the Court for taking cognizance of the offences. 30. The Learned Counsel for the accused have relied on

the judgment of Delhi High Court in the case of Rajender

Saini and Another Vs. State reported as 121 (2005) Delhi

Law Times 595 and have argued that where the petitioners 39 A.C. No. 05/2005 are such public servants who cannot be removed from office

except with sanction of Government: For their prosecution for

act purported to be an act in discharge of their official duty,

action cannot be taken except with pre-requisite sanction of

state Government. 31. Learned Counsel for the accused have argued that

accused Puran Singh Inspector , Sanjay Bajad, Rattan Singh

Constables and Om Prakash Head Constable were acting in

discharge of their duties as officials of Delhi Police while

investigating the case FIR No. 803/99, PS Defence Colony

and FIR No. 878/00 , PS Kalkaji, New Delhi , they cannot be

prosecuted for any offences without sanction of the

Government under section197 Cr.PC and 140 of Delhi Police

Act . 32. It was held in the case of Prakash Singh Badal

and Another Vs. State of Punjab reported as IV (2006)

CCR 335 (SC) that the Principle of immunity protects all acts

which the public servants has to perform in the exercise of the

functions of the Government. The purposes for which they are 40 A.C. No. 05/2005 performed protects these acts from criminal prosecution.

However, there is an exception. Where a criminal act is

performed under the colour of authority but which in reality is

for the public servant's own pleasure or benefit then such acts

shall not be protected under the doctrine of State immunity. 33. In the instant case, it has been alleged and shown

that the accused Puran Singh Inspector, Rattan Singh

Constable ,Sanjay Bajad Constable and Om Prakash Head

Constable had conspired with the accused Gaurav Aggarwal

Sub Inspector and accused Abdul Karim Telgi and huge

amounts were paid by accused Abdul Karim Telgi to accused

Puran Singh Inspector for helping him in his business of fake

stamps and to destroy the business of rivals. Such acts

cannot be said to be acts by the accused persons in

performance of their official duties. The accused cannot be

allowed the protection of state immunity in such

circumstances. 34. Under the circumstances, I find that there is

sufficient evidence to frame charges against all the accused 41 A.C. No. 05/2005 persons. 35. It is ordered that charges under section 120 B read

with section 119 , 193 , 211 , 218 , 221 , 259 IPC and section 7 , 12 , 13 (i) (d) read with section 13 (2) of Prevention of

Corruption Act be framed against all the accused persons . 36. It is further ordered that charges under section 119 , 193 , 211 , 218 , 221 IPC and Section 7 , 13 (i) (d) read with section 13 (2) of Prevention of Corruption Act be framed

against accused Puran Singh. 37. Charges under section 193 , 259 IPC and Section 12 of Prevention of Corruption Act be framed against accused

Abdul Karim Telgi. 38. Charges under section 193 and 211 IPC be framed

against accused Gaurav Aggarwal, Sanjay Bajad and Rattan

Singh. ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT
ON 17th Day of September, 2007
 (DINESH DAYAL)
 ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE,
 KARKARDOOMA COURTS, DELHI