(Per Nitin Jamdar, J.)

 The Applicant has filed this criminal application for
various reliefs, primarily pertaining to the summons issued by the
Respondent-Directorate of Enforcement under section 50 of the
Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. 2. The Applicant, at the relevant time, was the Home
Minister in the State of Maharashtra. The then Commissioner of
Police, Mr.Param Bir Singh, wrote a letter to the Chief Minister of
Maharashtra on 20 March 2021 alleging that Applicant abused his
position and powers to seek illegal monetary benefits. Writ Petition
No.1541of 2021 was filed in this Court by one Dr. Jayashree Patil
 skn 3 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

seeking a direction for investigation against the Applicant. Mr.
Param Bir Singh filed a Public Interest Litigation No.6of 2021 on 24
March 2021, seeking a direction for investigation by the Central
Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The Division Bench of this Court, by
judgment and order dated 5 April 2021, disposed of these petitions
and directed a preliminary enquiry into the complaint and
allegations. The enquiry was directed to be concluded within fifteen
days with liberty to the CBI to decide on further action to be taken.
The Applicant challenged the order passed by the Division Bench in
the Supreme Court by filing Special Leave Petition (Criminal) Diary
No.9414/2021. The Supreme Court dismissed the petition by order
dated 8 April 2021. 3. The preliminary enquiry was conducted. Upon this
preliminary enquiry, FIR No.RC2232021A0003 was filed by the
CBI on 21 April 2021 under section 7 of the Prevention of
Corruption Act, 1988 and under section 120-B of the Indian Penal
Code against the Applicant and other unknown persons. The
Applicant filed a Criminal Writ Petition No.1904/2021 for quashing
the FIR registered by the CBI on 21 April 2021. The Division
Bench of this Court dismissed the writ petition by order dated 22
July 2021. The Applicant filed a special leave petition challenging
the order dated 22 July 2021 passed by the Division Bench of this
Court. The Supreme Court rejected the petition by order dated 18
August 2021. skn 4 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc 4. Thereafter, the Respondent no. 1 and 2 Directorate of
Enforcement (Directorate)registered ECIR/MBZO-I/66/2021
against the Applicant under section 3 read with section 4 of the
Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA). A search was
carried out at the residence of the Applicant and his son on 25 June
2021. Respondent No.2 issued a summons to the Applicant on 25
June 2021, requiring him to remain present on the date assigned.
The Applicant sent his authorized representative with a written reply
on 26 June 2021. On 28 June 2021, the Directorate issued the
second summons to the Applicant to appear in person on 29 June
2021. The Applicant sent a written reply through his authorized
representative. The third summons was sent to the Applicant on 2
July 2021 to remain present, and the Applicant sent his authorized
representative with a written reply. On 12 July 2021, the Directorate
issued a summons to the Applicant's wife and sought certain
documents. The wife of the Applicant sent a reply through her
authorized representative on 14 July 2021. To the other summons
received by the Applicant's wife on 14 July 2021, she sent a reply
annexing certain documents on 16 July 2021. The Directorate sent a
summons to the son of the Applicant- Salil, on 25 July 2021,
requiring him to remain present on 26 July 2021. The son of the
Applicant sent a reply through email and asked his authorized
representative to attend. The Directorate sent the fourth summons
to the Applicant on 30 July 2021, to which the Applicant gave a reply
 skn 5 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

through his authorized representative. The Directorate of
Enforcement issued an order of provisional attachment on 16 July
2021. 5. Meanwhile, Writ Petition (Cri.) No.282/2021 was filed
by the Applicant along with his son in the Supreme Court. On 16
August 2021, the Supreme Court directed that this writ petition be
listed along with matters raising identical legal issues. As regards
interim relief, Supreme Court observed that it would be open to the
Petitioners (Applicant) to take recourse to appropriate remedies
available under the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, including by
way of quashing petition in the High Court, if so advised. The
challenge in the petition pending in the Supreme court was confined
to the validity of the provisions in question. The Supreme Court
observed that the order was passed in light of the observation made
in the case Devendra Dwivedi v/s. Union of India1. The Directorate
sent the fifth summons on 16 August 2021 to the Applicant, asking
him to remain present, to which the authorized representative of the
Applicant appeared and requested for time stating that the Applicant
is taking recourse to the lawful remedies as per the liberty granted by
the Supreme Court. 6. In this factual backdrop, the Applicant has approached this
Court with this application with various reliefs. The reliefs sought are

1 2021 SCC OnLine 221
 skn 6 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

as follows: (b) Restrain Respondent No.1 and Respondent No.2 from
 taking any penal/coercive action against the Applicant in
 purported exercise of powers under Section 19 PMLA by the
 Respondent No.2; (c) Direct the Respondent No.2 to comply with the
 mandate of Section 50(2) & 50(3) of PMLA in its true spirit
 and perspective and permit the Applicant to appear through an
 authorized representative, permit the submission of documents
 and record the Applicant's statement through any electronic
 mode and not to compel the presence of the Applicant in
 person; (d) Direct the Respondent No.2 to act in a transparent and
 objective manner and restrain him from misusing the power
 vested with him under Section 50(3) of PMLA as the words
 "All the persons so summons shall be bound to attend in
 person or through authorized agents, as such officer may
 direct" occurring in Section 50(3) of PMLA cannot depend
 upon mere whims, fancies, emotions, prejudices of the officer
 concerned and exercise of such choice/discretion must be based
 upon some objective and rational yardstick that must be borne
 out from the record; (e) Direct Respondent No.2 to act strictly in accordance
 and compliance with the directions issued by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court of India in its Order dated 07.05.2021 in Suo
 Motu Writ Petition (C) No.1/2020, In Re : Contagion of
 COVID-19 Virus In Prisons inter alia relating to the adherence
 to the law laid done in 'Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar (2014)
 8 SCC 273 ; Section 41A of the Cr.P.C., as accorded imprimatur and
 interpreted by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Arnesh Kumar v.
 State of Bihar (2014) 8 SCC 273, and not to arrest the
 Applicant as the sentence contemplated under Section 3 of
 PMLA in the Petitioner's case may extend to 7 years; (g) Direct the Respondent No.2 to act strictly in
 consonance with the directives laid down in 'Joginder Kumar
 v. State of U.P. (1994) 4 SCC 260' which has been accorded
 imprimatur by a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in 'Lalita Kumari v. Government of U.P. and Ors. (2012) 4 SCC
 1' with respect to arbitrary arrests; (h) Issue appropriate writ(s), orders(s) or directions(s) to
 Respondent No.2 in furtherance of the observations; order(s)
 and direction(s) issued by the Hon'ble Supreme Court inter
 alia, vide Order dated 02.12.2020 passed in SLP (Cri.) No.
 3543 of 2020 titled as 'Paramvir Singh Saini vs. Baljit Singh &
 Ors. ' to the effect that all proceedings carried out by
 Respondent No.1 & 2 including those in relation to the
 recording of statements etc. in terms of the
 Notice(s)/summons(s) issued under Section 50 of PMLA in
 ECIR MBZO-1/66/2021 to be audio/videographed in the
 presence of Applicant's lawyer at a visible distance (beyond
 audible range) inter-alia by way of installation of appropriate
 CCTV cameras; (i) In the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case,
 entrust the investigations into ECIR/MBZO-I/66/2021 dated
 11.05.2021 to a Special Investigating Team (SIT) comprising
 of ED officers outside the Mumbai Zonal Office and
 monitor/supervise the same in terms of the ratio of law laid
 down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in "Babu Bhai Jamna
 Das Patel v. State of Gujarat (2009) 9 SCC 610. Respondent Nos.1 and 2 have filed a preliminary reply. 7. We have heard Mr. Vikram Choudhary, learned Senior
 skn 8 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

Advocate with Mr.Ashok Mundargi, learned Senior Advocate for the
Applicant; and Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General with
Mr.Aman Lekhi and Mr.Anil C. Singh, learned Additional Solicitors
General Respondent Nos.1 and 2. The matter was heard at length
on video conferencing at the request of the Respondent- Directorate,
even though the Court is now hearing the matters physically. 8. Since the Applicant through Writ Petition (Cri.)
No.282/2021 has already approached the Supreme Court, and the
petition is pending, the question that arises is regarding the scope of
proceedings before us. For that purpose, the prayers made in the
prayer made in the Writ Petition (Cri.) No.282/2021 pending in the
Supreme Court will have to be noted, and they are as follows: (c) Issue appropriate writ(s), order(s) or direction(s) to and
 hold that the insertion of Explanation after sub-section (2) of Section 45 of PMLA vide Section 200 of the Finance Act,
 2019 (2 of 2019) (23 of 2019) w.e.f. 1.8.2019 which now
 contemplates that the offences under the Act are always
 deemed to be 'cognizable' is illegal, arbitrary and
 unconstitutional. (d) Issue appropriate writ(s), order(s) or direction(s) and
 hold that the insertion of "Explanation (i)" to Section 3 of
 Prevention Money Laundering Act, 2002, vide Section 193 of
 Finance Act (No.2) 2019 w.e.f. 01.08.2019, which requires
 reading the disjunctive 'or' instead of conjunctive 'and' in Section 3 before the words "projecting or claiming it as
 untainted property, renders Section 3 to be manifestly
 arbitrary, excessive, unreasonable, overbroad, and
 unconstitutional, by inter-alia altering the basis, pre-requisites
 & the very ambit as well as the scope of the offence
 contemplated under Section 3 , contrary to the interpretation
 laid to rest by this Hon'ble Court in Nikesh Tarachand Shah
 v/s Union of India , (2018) 11 SCC 1; (e) Issue appropriate writ(s), order(s) or direction(s) to and
 hold that the insertion of "Explanation (ii)" to Section 3 of
 Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, vide Section 193 of Finance Act (No.2) 2019 w.e.f. 01.08.2019 is absolutely
 vague, unconstitutional, arbitrary, manifestly illegal, capable of
 multiple interpretations & thus, ultra vires & violative of Articles 14 , 19 , 20(1) & 21 of the Constitution; (f) Issue appropriate writ(s), order(s) or direction(s) to and
 hold that the insertion of the 'Explanation (i)' after Clause (d)
 skn 10 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

 in sub-section (1) of Section 44 of PMLA vide Section 199 of
 Finance Act No.2 of 2019 (23 of 2019) w.ef. 1.8.2019 is ex-
 facie unconstitutional, arbitrary, illegal, violative & ultra vires
 of Article 14 , 19 and 21 of the Constitution as it is contrary to
 the interpretation accorded by this Hon'ble Court to the
 ambit, sweep and scope of Section 44 of PMLA in Nikesh
 Tarachand Shah vs. Union of India (2018) 11 SCC 17; (g) Issue appropriate Writ, Order or Direction(s) to quash
 the investigations under PMLA conducted by the Respondent
 No.2 Enforcement Directorate in ECIR/MBZO-I/66/2021
 summon Annexure P-8, P-9, P13 and P14 and all
 consequential proceedings arising therefrom being violative of
 the 'procedure established by law'; (h) Issue appropriate writ(s), order(s) or direction(s) to
 quash the summons Annexure P-8, P-9, P13 and P14 issued
 to Petitioners requiring their personal appearance in the office
 of Respondent 2; (i) Issue appropriate writ(s), order(s) or direction(s) to
 quash any penal or coercive action against the petitioners by
 Respondent No. 2 in ECIR/MBZO-I/66/2021 Annexure P-8,
 P-9, P13 and P14; (j) Issue appropriate writ(s), order(s) or direction(s) to
 Respondent No.2 in furtherance of the observations; order(s)
 and direction(s) issued by this Hon'ble Court inter alia, vide
 Order dated 02.12.2020 passed in SLP (Cri.) No.3543 of
 2020 titled as Paramvir Singh Saini vs. Baljit Singh & Ors as
 well as directions in Vijay Sajnani Versus Union of India 2012
 SCC OnLine 1094 & Birendra Kumar Pandey vs. Union of
 India & Ors. W.P.(Cri.) 28 of 2012 Order dated 16.04.2012 to
 the effect that in compliance with the letter & spirit of the
 aforementioned directions, all proceedings carried out by
 Respondent No.2 including those in relation to the recording
 of statements etc. in terms of the Notice(s)/ summon(s) issued
 under Section 50 of PMLA in ECIR MBZO-1/66/2021 to be
 audio/videographed in the presence of Petitioners' lawyer at a
 visible distance inter-alia by way of installation of appropriate
 skn 11 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

 CCTV cameras; It is apparent from reading of these two sets of prayers that there is
an overlap between the prayers in the present Application and Writ
Petition (Cri.) No.282/2021 pending in the Supreme Court. 9. Learned Counsel informs us that a group of a large
number of matters is being heard by the Supreme court where various
legal questions concerning the PMLA, including the applicability of
provisions of Code of Criminal Procedure ( CrPC ), are being argued.
The Counsel have also placed on record the questions of law
circulated by the learned Solicitor General in this group of matters
and questions of law circulated by the counsel for the Applicant in
the Supreme Court. Various questions of law regarding the Prevention on Money Laundering Act are under consideration before
the Supreme Court in the group of matters, including Criminal Writ
Petition No.282/2021. The questions of law circulated before the
Supreme Court by the learned Solicitor General relevant for the
present case are- as to whether the offence under the PMLA is
cognizable or non-cognizable, particularly in view of the Explanation
inserted in 2019; whether the procedure contemplated under all
provisions of Chapter XII of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 is
required to be followed while commencing and continuing
investigation under the PMLA; whether the reliance on the
statements recorded by the officers of the Enforcement Directorate
 skn 12 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

during the investigation in judicial proceedings violate Article 20(3) of the Constitution and are inadmissible in light of section 25 of the
Evidence Act; Whether a writ court can grant blanket 'No Coercive
Steps' order without any factual foundation being pleaded/ being
examined, merely because constitutional validity of certain provisions
has been challenged. The questions that the Applicant has circulated
as arising for consideration of the Supreme Court in Criminal Writ
Petition No.282/2021 as follows:- whether the offence under the
PMLA is non-cognizable; whether the procedure contemplated
under Chapter XII of Cr. P.C is mandatory to be followed while
commencing and continuing investigations under the PMLA;
whether grounds of arrest under section 19 of the PMLA are
mandatory to be framed/ communicated in writing to the arrestee.
These, in brief, are the questions for consideration of the Supreme
Court in the group of matters, including the Criminal Writ Petition
No.282/2021. 10. The learned Senior Advocate for the Petitioner and the
learned Additional Solicitor General addressed us on the order passed
by the Supreme Court on 16 August 2021. The order passed in the
Writ Petition (Cri.) No. 282 of 2021filed by the Applicant reads
thus: According to the Applicant, as per the liberty granted, both the
prayers, for interim relief and quashing, are permitted to be made
before the High Court. Applicant contended as follows. The High
Court has ample powers to consider the relief prayed for by the
Applicant and the order passed by the Supreme Court on 16 August
2021 in Writ Petition (Cri.) No. 282 of 2021 has kept the remedies
of the Applicant under the Code of Criminal Procedure by way of
quashing Petition and interim relief open, and the only aspect which
will now be considered by the Supreme Court is the challenge to the
validity of the provisions. Even if some of the prayers made in the
petition pending in the Supreme Court overlap with the present
application, in view of the specific liberty, the relief prayed for can be
considered. The reference to the observations made in the decision in
the case of Devendra Dwivedi v/s. Union of India2 is significant and
therefore, this Court can decide on the positions of law as well. In the
case of Devendra Dwivedi , the Supreme Court had observed while
relegating the parties to the High Court that it will benefit from the
view of the High Court in respect of the matters that are to be

2 2021 SCC OnLine 221
 skn 14 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

considered by the Supreme Court. According to the learned
Additional Solicitor General, the scope of the proceeding before us is
narrow, and there is no mandate to consider the application filed by
the Applicant, and the words used by the Supreme Court "if so
advised" and the reference to the remedies under Cr.P.C . are
meaningful. 11. We have considered the submissions and the record. The
order passed by the Supreme court on 16 August 2021 in Writ
Petition (Cri.) No. 282 of 2021 refers only to the provisions of Cr.P.C . The learned ASG is right in contending that the reference to
remedies under Cr.P.C . is significant, and reference to Article 226 of
the Constitution of India is consciously omitted as the issues of law referred to above are under consideration of the Supreme Court. In
the case of Devendra Dwivedi, the Supreme Court had disposed of
the petitions under Article 32 and left it open to the petitioner
therein to pursue the remedies available in law by approaching the
High Court, unlike in the present case, where the petition is pending
consideration in the Supreme Court. Since the Supreme Court had
disposed of the case pending before it in the case Devendra Dwivedi,
the Supreme Court, in that context, made observations in
paragraph-8 that the Supreme Court will have the benefit of the
considered view of the jurisdictional High Court. In paragraph-10 of
the decision, the Supreme Court made a distinction between Article
226 of the Constitution of India and section 482 of Cr.P.C. in
 skn 15 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

respect of grievance regarding the conduct of the investigation.
Therefore, the Applicant's grievance will have to be considered in the
light of the remedies under Cr.P.C . and cannot be considered under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Therefore, it is not proper
for us to decide and declare on the questions of law pending before
the Apex Court in the Applicants petition. 12. The scope of the matter before us is, thus, restricted to
the quashing of summons and protection order in the facts of the case
and not for deciding the questions of law referred to earlier, which are
pending before the Supreme Court. 13. The outcome of the discussion on the prayer to quash the
summons issued to the Applicant by Respondent No.2 under Section 50 of the PMLA and on the prayer to restrain Respondent
No.1 and Respondent No.2 from taking any penal/coercive action
against the Applicant, will have a bearing on the other prayers and is
taken up first. 14. The genesis of this Application is the summonses issued
under section 50 of the PMLA. Before we consider the Applicant's
case on facts, the legal position as to the stage at which the Applicant
has approached this Court and the parameters of interference by the
High Court at this stage and statutory scheme of the statute in
question, the PMLA, will have to be referred to. skn 16 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc 15. When the court is called upon the pass orders regarding
proceedings under an enactment, it is essential to keep in mind the
object and purpose of such legislation. The legislative history and the
intent of the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 is
significant. Large scale money laundering affects the economic
interest of the country. Menace of money laundering has
international ramifications. The Political Declaration and Global
Programme of Action, annexed to the resolutions adopted by the
General Assembly of the United Nations on 23 February 1990 and
the Political Declaration adopted by the Special Session of the United
Nations General Assembly in June 1998 called upon the Member
States to adopt national money-laundering legislation and
programme. The PMLA was enacted to prevent money laundering
and to provide for confiscation of property derived from money
laundering. Money-laundering, as defined under Section 2(p) read
with section 3 , takes place when whosoever directly or indirectly
attempts to indulge or knowingly assists or knowingly is a party or is
actually involved in any process or activity connected with the
proceeds of crime, including its concealment, possession, acquisition
or use and projects or claims it as untainted property. Such a person
is guilty of the offence of money laundering. A person is also guilty of
money-laundering if such person is found to have directly or
indirectly attempting to indulge or knowingly assisting knowingly is
a party or is actually involved in concealment or possession
 skn 17 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

acquisition, use, and projecting it as untainted property or claiming as
untainted property. Special machinery is set up to investigate the
offence of money laundering. Authorities are constituted and their
powers are prescribed under chapter VII of the PMLA. The
authorities are: the Director or Additional Director or Joint Director,
Deputy Director; Assistant Director; and such other class of officers
as may be appointed. The Act lays down elaborate methodology. Section 50 , which is the relevant section, lays down the powers of
authorities regarding summons, production of documents and to give
evidence. The relevant portion of the section reads thus: Thus under section 50 , the authorities can enforce the attendance of
any person compelling the production of records, for receiving
evidence on affidavits, for examination of witnesses and documents
etc. The authorities can summon any person to give evidence or to
produce any records during the course of any investigation and to
attend in person or through authorized agents, as such officer may
direct. Section 50(3) also states that such person shall be bound to
state the truth upon any subject respecting which they are examined
or make statements and produce such documents as may be required.
The impugned summons are issued under this provision. 16. Now, we will consider the stage at which the Applicant is
before us. Section 2(na) defines 'Investigation' as including all the
proceedings under this Act conducted by the Director or by an
authority authorised by the Central Government under the Act to
collect evidence. The reference is to all Proceedings. It is quite clear
that the search carried out under section 17 of the PLMA and
impugned summons issued to the Applicant is "investigation" as
defined under the PMLA. Thus, by the present application, the
Applicant calls upon this court to interdict or interfere with the
 skn 19 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

investigation under the PMLA. It is therefore imperative to prefix the
discussion on the facts and the reliefs with the law on the scope of
exercise of powers by the High Court under section 482 of Cr.P.C. in
the matters of investigation. 17. The scope of exercise of powers by the High Court
under section 482 of Cr.P.C. and under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India in the matters of investigation has been dealt
with by the Supreme Court various decisions. In the case of
Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt.Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra3 where the
Bench of three learned Judges of the Supreme Court took a review of
the earlier law on the subject. This decision provides a guidance.
The decision of the Supreme Court in the case of P. Chidambaram v.
Directorate of Enforcement4 and in the case of State of Orissa v.
Suraj Kumar Sahu5 , also need to be noted. Our respectful summary
of the general propositions laid down by the Supreme Court on the
subject is as follows: While it is acknowledged that the inherent
jurisdiction of the High Court can be exercised to quash the criminal
proceedings in a given case to prevent abuse of process of law or to
secure the ends of justice, various cautions are sounded in the exercise
of this jurisdiction. There is a statutory right of the police to
investigate the cognizable crime without requiring any authority from
the judicial authority. There is a demarcated boundary between
crime detection and crime punishment. The investigation of offence
3 2021 SCC OnLine SC 315
4 (2019) 9 SCC 24
5 (2005) 13 SCC 540
 skn 20 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

is a field reserved for the executive, and it is the executive who is
charged with a duty to keep vigilance over law and order situations,
and is duty-bound to investigate the offences. Ordinarily, the courts
are barred from usurping the jurisdiction of the police since the two
organs of the State operate in two specific spheres of activities, and
one ought not to tread over the other sphere. The functions of the
judiciary and the police are complementary, not overlapping. The
courts would not interfere with the investigation or during the
investigation except in exceptional cases where non-inference will
result in a miscarriage of justice. Unless a gross abuse of power is
made out against those who are in charge of the investigation, the
court should not generally interfere at the early stages of the
investigation. The power to quash criminal proceedings and
investigation is exercised very sparingly with circumspection and in
the rarest of rare cases. Criminal proceedings ought not to be
scuttled at the initial stage. Even to proceed on the ground of malice
or abuse of powers, the High Court must be convinced that there is a
clear case of abuse of power. It is not the function of the court to
monitor the investigation as long as the investigation does not violate
any provision of law, and it must be left to the investigating authority
to decide the course of the investigation. The court cannot interfere
at every stage of investigation and interrogation as it would affect the
normal course of the investigation. The investigating agency must
be permitted to proceed in its own lawful methodology and the
procedure. The High Court should not stifle legitimate prosecution,
 skn 21 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

especially when entire facts are incomplete and hazy and also when
the evidence has not been collected and produced. Thus save in
exceptional cases where non-interference would result in a
miscarriage of justice, the court and the judicial process should not
interfere at the investigation stage of offences. With this position of
law in mind, we now proceed to ascertain whether Applicant has
made out any extraordinary case. 18. The Applicant's challenge before us to the summons
issued under section 50 of the PMLA is primarily founded on the
grounds of abuse of power and mala fides of the Respondent-
Directorate. 19. In the Application, the Applicant has referred to the
phrases both the malice in law and malice in fact. The ground of
mala fides on the part of the statutory authority, if it is to be sustained
as a legal ground, it must pass the test of legal proof. The Supreme
Court in the case of Ratnagiri Gas & Power (P) Ltd. v. RDS Projects
Ltd.6 has observed that the law casts a heavy burden on the person
alleging mala fides to prove it based on facts that are admitted or
satisfactorily established and from which logical inference follows.
The allegation of mala fides but must find a basis in the pleadings on
oath. In the Application, none of the officers have been joined as a
party respondent to substantiate the allegation of any malice in fact

6 (2013) 1 SCC 524
 skn 22 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

against them. In paragraph-6 of the Application, after stating the
Applicant's credentials, it is stated that he became the target of several
vested interests in the course of Applicant's political career. It is
stated that a series of events at the hands of such vested interest has
led to this mala fide investigation. However, which are those vested
interests who were working against the Applicant are not stated.
Then in the pleading, the chronology of the summonses and
responses by the Applicant has been narrated. In the grounds taken
in the Application, it is stated that summonses were issued under
malice, how the summonses have been issued, and the timings of the
summonses. In ground (g) of the Application, it is stated that the
proceedings are actuated with malice in law and also in fact, the
action of Respondent No.3 is out of political vendetta. These are the
only pleadings and grounds. Both in the oral arguments and the
pleadings and in the written notes, the attempt of the Applicant to
establish the case of malice in law and fact based on the manner of
issuance of summonses and their timings. 20. One of the contentions, we deal with at the outset is not
providing the ECIR to the Applicant. This contention was on two
facets. First, the copy of ECIR being akin to FIR ought to have been
supplied as it is a right of the Applicant to receive the ECIR. The
second contention is as an incidence of malafides as the ECIR of 11
May 2021 was made available only on 9 August 2021 by appending
to the proposed attachment order under section 5 of the PMLA. It
 skn 23 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

was contended that ECIR has been given even at the stage of remand
in some cases; and in the Applicant's case, it is deliberately withheld.
Learned Senior Advocate for the Applicant clarified during the
submissions that since the issue of applicability of Chapter-XII of Cr.P.C . to the PMLA is pending before the Supreme Court, the
question of ECIR be equated with FIR will be decided in the
Applicant's writ petition pending in the Supreme Court, and the
aspect of ECIR should be considered here as a ground of legal malice. 21. The Division Bench of this Court in the judgment and
order dated 29 July 2015 in the case of Charu Kishore Mehta v.
State of Maharashtra7 has held that ECIR is an internal document of
the Enforcement Directorate, and unlike an FIR, it is not a public
document, and at the investigation stage, the copy of the same cannot
be furnished as a right. Second, now the copy of ECIR is available
with the Applicant. On the facts of this case, the learned ASG
pointed out that a search was carried out of the Applicant's premises
under section 17 of the PMLA on 25 June 2021. After the search
was carried out, a summons was issued. The Applicant was fully
aware that the search was carried out under Section 17 . Summons
issued to the Applicant made it clear to the Applicant that he was
called in respect of that material. It is contended that ECIR is only a
document at the inception, after that, there has been a search in the
Applicant's premises, two persons have been arrested whose
statements have been recorded, and the Applicant was informed at 7 WP No.2961/2015 decided on 29 July 2015 skn 24 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

the time of issuance of the third summons. We find merit in the
contention of the learned ASG that the case had travelled much
further after the filing of ECIR, and the non-supply of ECIR cannot
be considered as a legal malice as a stand-alone ground. Our further
analysis of facts will show that it can neither be considered conjointly
with other events. 22. The second contention of the Applicant, before we come
to the sequence of summonses, is based on Article 20(3) of the
Constitution of India. The Applicant sought to argue that the
Applicant is mentioned as a "suspect", therefore, the protection of Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India applies and Section 50(3) of PMLA, which mandates any person to state the truth, offends the
guarantee under Article 20(3) against self-incrimination. The
learned ASG, on the other hand, contended that the Applicant is at
the most a suspect at the stage, and there is no question of application
of Article 20(3). Learned ASG placed reliance on the decision of the
Supreme Court in Raj Narayan Bansilal v. Maneck Phiroz Mistry8 .
In this case, the Constitution Bench was considering the case of a
managing director of a limited company. The Registrar of
Companies had written to the appellant company that he had
received material that the company's business was carried out in
fraud, and he called upon the company to furnish information. The
government authorities appointed an inspector to investigate the

8 (1961) 1 SCR 417
 skn 25 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

affairs of the company. The appellant company filed a writ petition
challenging the direction as regards the proposed investigation. It
was also argued that the provision of the amended Companies Act,
1956 was offending the protection given under Article 20(3). The
Constitution Bench negating the contention based on Article 20(3) ,
observed that though it is true that as a result of the investigation, it
may be discovered that the affairs of the company not only disclose
irregularity but commission of the offence, the prosecution will not
retrospectively change the complexion or character of the proceeding. 23. According to us, this aspect need not detain us. The
legal questions as regards section 50(3) of the PMLA offending
constitutional guarantee under Article 20(3) is being considered by
the Apex Court in the Applicant's petition, and the stage of
Applicant's arrest under section 19 has not yet reached. We have to
keep in mind the stage at which the Applicant has approached before
us. The stage at which the Applicant has approached before us is
only under section 50 of the PMLA. This facet is relevant for other
prayers of the Applicant as well. 24. Now, we come to the main contention of the Applicant.
On law, it was contended by the Applicant that section 50(2) of the
PMLA gives discretion to the officer to call the summoned person to
appear through representative or in person. It was argued that this
discretion must not be abused, and reliance was placed on the
 skn 26 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

decision in the case of Barium Chemicals Ltd. v. Sh.A.J.Rana 9. It
was contended that calling a person under section 50 of the PMLA is
serious and section 50 emphasizes the words "considers it necessary".
We have considered the submissions based on the decision in Barium
Chemicals. The Constitution Bench has analyzed the phrase
"considers it necessary" and held that these words postulate that the
authority has thought over the matter deliberately and with care, and
it has been found necessary as a result of such thinking to pass the
order. However, as pointed out by the learned ASG, the Constitution
Bench has further observed that if there has been consideration of the
matter regarding the necessity to obtain and examine all the
documents and an order is passed thereafter, the Court would stay its
hand in the matter and would not substitute its own opinion for that
of the authority concerned. The aspect whether authorities of the
Directorate have considered the relevant factors, therefore, will have
to be considered along with the argument of factual malice, the
chronology of events and how the Applicant and the Respondent-
Directorate have acted. 25. The Applicant has contended as follows: The manner in
which summonses have been issued, the case of legal and factual
malice on the part of Respondent- Directorate is explicit. Both in
the oral arguments and the pleadings and in the written notes, the
case for mala fide, malice in law and fact is centred around the

9 (1972) 1 SCC 240
 skn 27 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

issuance of summonses and their timings. In the facts of the case, the
malice in law and the abuse of the procedure are evident once the
Respondent- Directorate's conduct is seen in totality. The Applicant
submitted that the manner in which the entire case has unfolded and
the facts therein looked at cumulatively will demonstrate the legal
and factual malice. The narration of events by the Applicant in
support of the contention is as follows:- The letter annexed to the summons stated that ECIR being an
internal document, cannot be shared with the Applicant. The
Applicant replied to this summons on 5 July 2021, stating that the
Applicant was committed to rendering co-operation; however, the
manner in which the investigation was being conducted was giving
rise to an apprehension that it was not impartial and transparent, and
the Applicant proposes to approach the Supreme Court for
safeguarding his rights. d) On 5 July 2021, the Applicant filed the writ petition in
the Supreme Court seeking various reliefs in respect of issuance of
summons and challenges to the provisions of the PMLA and for
declarations as regards the position of law. While the petition filed by
the Applicant was pending before the Supreme Court and
Respondent No.2 was contesting the same and was fully aware of the
issues, the Respondent- Directorate showed undue haste, and the
timing of summons was such to nullify the attempt of the Applicant
to take recourse to legal process. e) On 30 July 2021, when the Supreme Court adjourned
the matter to 3 August 2021 for consideration of ad-interim relief of
no coercive steps, the same day Respondent No.2 issued a summons
 skn 29 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

directing the Applicant's personal appearance on 2 August 2021
before the date scheduled. It is pertinent to note that till the Supreme
Court directed that the matter will be heard for interim relief,
nothing was done by Respondent No.2 in the meanwhile. The
Applicant replied on 2 August 2021, stating that since a day prior to
the hearing before the Supreme Court, such summons is being
issued, strengthening the apprehension that the investigation is not
fair and is an abuse of power. f) On 9 August 2021, the provisional attachment order was
also passed, and the ECIR was annexed to the complaint. Assuming
the ECIR was an internal document, there was no reason why it was
not shared when it was asked for on 26 June 2021. Respondent No.2
is being selective in sharing the ECIR. The incidents relied upon in
the affidavit filed in this Petition will show that in some cases, ECIR
is supplied even at the stage of remand. This arbitrary non-supply is
a clear case of selectively attacking the Applicant; g) After the Supreme Court passed an order on 16 August
2021 granting liberty to the Applicant and knowing that the
Applicant will approach this Court, a summons was issued on 16
August 2021. The summons was issued even without waiting for the
text of the order to be uploaded, and this was a clear attempt to
scuttle the Applicant's attempt to approach this Court. h) When the first summons was issued, the Applicant was
asked to bring documents relating to ECIR, and the ECIR was never
shared with the Applicant. Even the list of documents was not given
 skn 30 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

to the Applicant. This was calculated to embarrass the Applicant,
and it cannot be considered as a bona fide approach of the Authority.
The Applicant in the first summons was asked to appear in person or
through his representative, and even after his authorized
representative attended, this option was not given in the subsequent
summons, and the Applicant was asked to remain present. The
social standing of the Applicant in public, his age and health
condition ought to have been considered. The Applicant was forced
to appear in person without any reason, and selected news items were
released to media tarnishing his image. This is a complete abuse of
discretion under section 50(2) of the PMLA. i) The summonses were issued to exactly coincide with the
proceedings in the Court. For instance, when the Applicant's
petition was listed before the Supreme Court on 3 August 2021 for
interim relief, the Applicant was directed to appear on 2 August
2021. j) After issuing summons on 2 July 2021, nothing was done
by the Respondent- Directorate and just a day before the hearing on
interim relief in the Supreme Court, the Applicant was directed to
appear; k) A series of searches and raids have been carried out on
the Applicant's family and the institution run by his family. These
searches are done by Enforcement Directorate, CBI and Income Tax
Department. To none of the summonses issued, the Applicant has
denied co-operation. Between the order passed by the Supreme Court
 skn 31 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

on 16 August 2021 giving liberty to the Applicant to approach the
High Court, no complaint under section 174 of IPC was filed, and
when the matter was adjourned by the High Court to 4 October
2021, a complaint was filed on 1 October 2021. There is complete
arbitrariness and abuse of powers in the issuance of summonses.
This is, in short, the narration of the Applicant with submissions. 26. We will now analyze the events as they have unfolded to
determine if the charge of the Applicant of malice is made out. 27. On 25 June 2021, a search was carried out in the
Applicant's premises, which the Applicant did not challenge in any
court of law. Summons was issued after the search under section 17 of the PMLA was carried out, and, by that time, investigation under section 2(na) had commenced. The learned ASG has drawn our
attention to the panchanama dated 25 June 2021, which states that
during the search, the officers identified and recovered miscellaneous
documents compiled in a pink coloured file containing 53 pages, and
it was stated that the same was required in the course of further
investigation. This is the material referred to. The first summons
was issued to the Applicant on the same day. By this summons, the
Applicant was not asked to appear in person. The Respondent-
Directorate gave an option to the Applicant to appear through an
authorized representative, which shows their bona fides. The
Applicant, however, responded on 26 June 2021 that unless ECIR is
given, it would not be possible for him to give the documents. The
 skn 32 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

learned ASG is right in contending that by that time, the Applicant
was aware that search was carried out, panchanama was drawn, and
what was the material. The summons was in respect of the same
search. The Respondent- Directorate, in the course of the
investigation, then issued a second summons wherein it was made
clear to the Applicant that the Applicant should remain present in
connection with the evidence collected and the statements recorded.
The Applicant gave a lengthy reply and again reiterated that he
should be given a copy of the ECIR. The reply was also under the
belief that once his statement was recorded on 25 June 2021 during
the search, it need not be recorded again, which is an incorrect
position. Thereafter two persons were arrested after the search, and
they had given their statements. Therefore, the matter had travelled
beyond the ECIR, which is only a document at the inception. The
third summons issued on 2 July 2021 was accompanied by a detailed
letter. This letter clarified that the Applicant's presence is required to
confront the evidence collected, including the statements recorded.
The Respondent- Directorate informed the Applicant that he was
adopting dilatory tactics, the ECIR is only an internal document, and
it is a settled position that the investigating agency will decide the
mode and manner of investigation, and it cannot be dictated.
Pursuant to this summons also, the Applicant did not appear and sent
a reply running into 20 paragraphs. By that time, the Applicant had
become a defaulter, having not produced documents and not having
appeared pursuant to the summons, yet the Respondent- Directorate
 skn 33 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

showed restraint and did not immediately take action under section
174 of IPC or section 63 of the PMLA. This needs to be noted that
nothing has been shown to us by the Applicant that the Respondent-
Directorate is obligated under law to exercise restraint and give
particular numbers of opportunities before proceeding under section
63 of the PMLA. The summons issued to the Applicant asking him
to appear on 2 August 2021 prior to the matter coming up before the
Supreme Court on 3 August 2021 was issued earlier on 30 July 2021.
This cannot be made capital of. It must be noted that this was not
the first summons issued to the Applicant. The Applicant, by that
time, did not have an interim order from any competent court. The
investigation under the PMLA was not stayed. Even if we see these
events in totality, all we can discern is that the Applicant has been
repeatedly called by the Respondent Directorate, and the Applicant
has repeatedly failed to attend. The breach of law is on the part of the
Applicant in not attending. 28. For submission based on the non-supply of ECIR, now
the Applicant has the copy of the ECIR when it was given at the time
of provisional attachment order. The only argument that was
advanced based on the same is that it was shared belatedly. The
argument was not based on the contents of the ECIR. The argument
was that in other cases, the ECIR was supplied even at the remand
stage, and without any reason, it was withheld from the Applicant.
Secondly, on the allegations of malafides that certain vested interests
 skn 34 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

who themselves are guilty in heinous crime are behind the predicate
offence; it was not made clear what heinous offence they have
committed and how, and the details of these allegations have not
been elaborated in the Petition. We have referred to the legal
position regarding the pleadings in the earlier paragraphs. The
pleadings are bereft of any particulars. This Court is called upon to
engage in guess work to presume malafides against the Directorate. 29. The Applicant argued that on 1 October 2021, when the
matter was pending in this Court, a complaint was filed before the
Chief Metropolitan Magistrate for an offence under section 174 of
the Indian Penal Code. The Applicant submitted that this is one
more facet of malice wherein even though there is a specific section,
i.e. section 63 of the PMLA, which makes non-compliance of
direction to appear pursuant to summons punishable, which was not
invoked. According to us, this argument does not lead the case of the
Applicant any further. Section 63 of the PMLA provides for
punishment for false information or failure to give information. Section 63(c) states that if a person to whom a summon is issued
under section 50 either to attend to give evidence or produce books
of account or other documents at a certain place and time, omits to
attend or produce books of account or documents at the place or time
does not do so, he is liable for penalty. Section 63(4) , however, states
that, notwithstanding anything contained in clause (c) of sub-section
(2), a person who intentionally disobeys any direction issued under
 skn 35 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc section 50 shall also be liable to be proceeded against under section
174 of the IPC. From section 63(4) , it is quite clear that
notwithstanding anything with sub-section (2)(c), a person who is
intentionally disobeying any direction issued under section 50 is also
liable to be proceeded against section 174 of IPC. We are not
considering the legal challenge to the action under section 174 of
IPC. The Applicant has failed to demonstrate any malice from this
action. 30. The Applicant's argument is that Enforcement
Directorate is acting under a political vendetta. On this aspect, we
have already referred to the lack of pleadings and absence of parties to
the Application. In this context, the decision of the Constitution
Bench in the case of Sheonandan Paswan v. State of Bihar 10 needs to
be noted. The Constitution Bench was considering the argument
regarding criminal prosecution and the allegation of political
vendetta, based on the allegation that the successor government had
initiated prosecution against the Chief Minister of the concerned
State. The Supreme Court observed that this by itself does not lead
to inference that the prosecution was actuated by political vendetta
because it is quite possible that there may be material justifying the
initiation of prosecution. The Supreme Court observed that if the
criminal prosecution is otherwise justifiable and based on adequate
evidence, it does not become vitiated on account of malice or political
vendetta of the first informant or complainant. This dicta squarely
10 (1987) 1 SCC 288
 skn 36 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

applies to the case at hand. 31. It must be noted that the PMLA has been brought on the
statute book pursuant to the resolution by the United Nations
General Assembly calling upon the member States to enact money
laundering legislation. The statement of object and reasons of the
PMLA underscores the importance of taking effective steps to curb
the menace of money laundering, which is no longer restricted to any
geopolitical boundary. The scheme of the PMLA not only confers
powers on the authorities under the Act to take steps to curb money
laundering but casts a duty upon them to take effective steps.
Therefore, unless it is demonstrated that the authorities under the
PMLA were proceeding beyond their jurisdiction or in contravention
of any restraint order by the court, issuance of summons by the
authorities when there was no restraint order by the court cannot be
considered as mala fide. 32. Nothing is shown to us as to how the ongoing
investigation was either beyond the jurisdiction or was illegal. The
Applicant's argument that the investigation under the PMLA in the
present case cannot go beyond the proceeds of crime identified in the
schedule, and predicate offence, is without merit. This ground is
taken in the Petition; however, how exactly the proceedings are
beyond the predicate offence ought to have been demonstrated
before us in oral arguments. As a matter of fact, nothing was argued
in that regard. That an FIR is registered against the Applicant by the
 skn 37 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

Central Bureau of Investigation under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act is an admitted position. Also that the
offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act is a part of the
schedule appended to PMLA, which sets out the predicate offences.
In the absence of any factual particulars placed before us
demonstrating from the FIR such finding that in fact, the
investigation is proceeding beyond the scope of the predicate offence,
cannot be rendered in abstract. Suffice it to note that the Applicant
is one of the main accused in the FIR filed under the Prevention of
Corruption Act . 33. On the ground of illegality, nothing is pointed out to us
as to how the summonses are illegal or beyond the powers of the
authority. The search was conducted under section 17 of the PMLA.
Statements have been recorded, and the Applicant is called under section 50 in respect of certain information. Though the matter has
been elaborately argued, neither any legal bar for issuing summons
under section 50 nor any absence of power to issue summons has
been pointed out. The entire focus has been on the abuse of power
while issuing the summons, and mala fide, which we find is not
sustainable. 34. Under the PMLA, the Enforcement Directorate is under
a duty to carry out the investigation. There is no interim order
passed by any court restraining the Enforcement Directorate from
proceeding further with the investigation. If the Enforcement
 skn 38 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

Directorate, in the absence of any restraint, is proceeding further in
the performance of its duties, it cannot be called a mala fide exercise
of power. Even assuming that issuance of summons coincided with
the dates in the court, unless the court specifically restrains the
Respondent- Enforcement Directorate from proceeding further, no
fault can be found in the officers of the Enforcement Directorate who
were performing their duties under the Act. Section 2(na) defines
investigation and covers all proceedings under the Act, including the
collection of evidence. Section 48 defines the authorities under the
PMLA and, therefore, the authority under the Act is carrying out
investigation as defined under section 2(na) and has the power to
issue summons under section 50(2) . 35. We, therefore, find no merit in the case of the Applicant
in support of prayer clause (a) to quash the impugned Summonses
issued to the Applicant by Respondent No.2 under Section 50 of
the PMLA. 36. Now, we turn to prayer clause (b), which is a direction to
the Respondent- Directorate not to take coercive steps pursuant to
the ECIRs in question. As stated earlier, this prayer is also based
primarily on the charge of malice on the part of the Respondent-
Directorate in issuing summonses. 37. On the submission based on the application of sections
 skn 39 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

41 and 41A of Cr.P.C ., the Applicant has relied upon the decision of
the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in the case of Vakamulla
Chandrashekar v. Enforcement Directorate11 . In this decision, the
Delhi High Court held that provision of Cr.P.C . shall apply in so far
as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of the PMLA to arrest,
search, seizure and investigation and other proceedings under the
Act. The Division Bench held that there is nothing in the scheme of
the PMLA that sections 41 and 41A of Cr.P.C. would not apply to the
exercise of the power of arrest under section 19 of the PMLA, and the
PMLA does not impliedly exclude the application of sections 41 and 41A of Cr.P.C. The Directorate of Enforcement has challenged the
decision in the case of Vakamulla Chandrashekar in Special Leave
Petition (Cri.) Diary No.36918/2017 and while issuing notice on 4
January 2018, the Supreme Court has stayed the operation of the
impugned order of the Delhi High Court. The learned counsel for
the parties have sought to advance arguments on the implication of
the order passed by the Supreme Court staying the operation of the
order of the Delhi High Court. Based on the decision of the
Supreme Court in the case of Shree Chamundi Mopeds Ltd. v.
Church of South India Trust Association CSI CINOD Secretariat .
Madras12, it was sought to be contended by the Applicant that the
stay order of the Supreme Court does not mean that the impugned
order has been wiped out from existence. According to us, once the
order passed by the Delhi High Court in the case of Vakamulla

11 2017 SCC OnLine Del 12810
12 (1992) 3 SCC 1
 skn 40 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

Chandrashekar has been stayed by the Supreme Court, it will not be
proper for us to rely on and follow the said decision . The learned
ASG argued that all the safeguards in the decision of Arnesh Kumar
v. State of Bihar13 followed by the Delhi High Court in Vakamulla
Chandrashekar are already implicit in section 19 of the PMLA. The
directions issued in the decision of Arnesh Kumar in paragraph-10 of
the decision, according to the learned ASG, does not curtail the
power of arrest; however, they only state that the arrest should not be
unnecessarily made and the Magistrate should not authorize
detention casually and mechanically. According to us, this discussion
is a deviation from the issue before us, which is a challenge to the
summons issued to the Applicant, and the stage of section 19 regarding arrest has not arisen in this case at this stage. 38. On the power of the High Court as regards the prayer for
protection against coercive steps, the Applicant has placed heavy
reliance on the decision of the Supreme court in the case of Arnab
Manoranjan Goswami v. State of Maharashtra 14. Based on
paragraph-67 of the said judgment , the Applicant contended that the
High Court has ample powers under section 482 to prevent abuse of
process of law. The Supreme court in para 67 has observed that the
writ of liberty runs through the fabric of the Constitution and the
misuse of the criminal law is a matter of which the High Court and
the lower courts in this country must be alive. It is the duty of courts

13 (2014) 8 SCC 273
14 (2021) 2 SCC 427
 skn 41 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

across the spectrum - the district judiciary, the High Courts and the
Supreme Court - to ensure that the criminal law does not become a
weapon for the selective harassment of citizens. Courts should be
alive to both ends of the spectrum - they need to ensure the proper
enforcement of criminal law on the one hand and the need, on the
other, of ensuring that the law does not become a ruse for targeted
harassment. 39. The learned ASG, on the other hand, has drawn our
attention to the facts under which observations were made in the case
of Arnab Goswami, which are narrated from paragraphs-5 to 19 of
the decision, to contend that the observation of the Supreme Court
were in the facts of that in that case where the High Court had failed
to exercise its powers. In the case of Arnab Goswami, the appellant
was a TV journalist who had broadcast certain material raising issues
which, according to him, were not palatable to political parties ruling
the State. The FIR filed in the year 2018 was closed by submitting a
Closure Report in the year 2019, which the learned Magistrate also
accepted. After the closure report, there were transactions between
the parties. Thereafter, after almost a year, multiple FIRs were filed.
The Supreme Court had clubbed the multiple FIRs against the
appellant, and then at the instance of the home department of the
State, the matter was reopened. The appellant was then arrested.
These facts, on the face of it, were striking, and the Supreme Court
found that the Petitioner made out a case before it. Quite clearly, the
 skn 42 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

case at hand does not have the features as in the case of Arnab
Goswami, which on the face of it, demonstrated the need for
intervention. It is equally important to note that the Supreme Court
in this decision also emphasized the need to ensure proper
enforcement of criminal law, and both ends of the spectrum need to
be balanced. Therefore facts of each case will have to be looked at.
The decision in the case of Arnab Goswami thereafter has been
referred and explained by the decision of the three Judges of the
Supreme Court in the case of Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt.Ltd. 40. The Applicant relied upon various orders wherein it is
directed that no coercive steps be taken against the parties
approaching the Supreme Court. Copies of such orders are placed on
record. In the decision of Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt.Ltd., the
Supreme Court observed that if no case is made out to interfere with
the investigation to quash the FIR, then no order can be passed that
no coercive steps be taken against the applicant. In the case of A.P.
Mahesh Co-operative Urban Bank Shareholders Welfare Association
v. Ramesh Kumar Bung15 , the bench of two learned Judges rendered
a decision after the judgment in Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.
The Supreme Court held that the decision in Neeharika
Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. had allowed space for the High Court to pass
an interim order in exceptional cases and in circumspection with
reasons. The question is whether such an exceptional circumstances
exist in the case at hand. The answer is-No.
15 2021 SCC OnLine SC 475
 skn 43 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc 41. The Supreme Court in Neeharika Infrastructure
Pvt.Ltd. has given guidance to the High Court regarding the prayer
for "No Coercive Steps" when the investigation is in progress. The
relevant observations of the Supreme Court are as follows: (emphasis supplied)
The above-quoted observation state that when the investigation is in
progress, and the facts are not clear, the High Court should restrain itself
from passing interim order of not to arrest or "no coercive steps to be
adopted" and should relegate the Applicant to apply Section 438 Cr.P.C. 42. The learned ASG contended that when the Applicant has
invoked section 482 of Cr.P.C., a discretionary relief, the Applicant's
conduct will also have to be seen. Learned ASG submitted that
while the Applicant keeps on proclaiming that he is ready and willing
to co-operate, his conduct is entirely otherwise. For some reason or
other, the Applicant is avoiding attending pursuant to the summons.
We find this submission as justified. If there are no mala fides and
no illegality, then there is no question of not attending and co-
operating with the investigation. The learned ASG also pointed out
that the search was carried out under section 17 of the PMLA on 25
June 2021 at the Applicant's residence, and his statement was
recorded. There is no challenge at this stage to the initiation of
investigation as per section 2(na) of the PMLA. It was contended
that the Applicant can be considered at the most as a suspect and is
given a chance to explain and is not an accused at this stage. The
learned ASG submitted that the Applicant could not take advantage
of certain coincidences and build up a case of mala fides. The learned
ASG argued that no person is above the law, and the applicant must
attend the questioning. 43. We must note here that the Applicant had not addressed
us at all on what are the merits of the offence except the submission
of the Applicant that those who made allegations against the
 skn 45 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

Applicant are themselves guilty of heinous crimes. No material in
support on merits is argued before us as to why we should pass such
orders, which obviously cannot be passed in a routine manner. The
entire thrust is on malice in the investigation. Learned ASG also
contended that the Applicant is an influential political person in the
State, and without any protection from any court, the Applicant has
managed to evade even simple summons and it will be extremely
difficult for the Enforcement Directorate to investigate further once
the Applicant enjoys the benefit of protection from the court and this
aspect has to be kept in mind by the court while granting the order
akin to anticipatory bail. The learned ASG has also drawn our
attention to the observation made by the Division Bench of this
Court in PIL No.6/2021 wherein the Division Bench, while directing
preliminary enquiry by the CBI, about the political influence of the
Applicant. 44. The Supreme court, in the case of Neeharika
Infrastructure Pvt.Ltd., has laid down that the High Court shall not
pass the order of not to arrest and/or "no coercive steps" while
dismissing/disposing of the quashing petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and/or under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. As we
have concluded that no case is made out by the Applicant on facts for
the exercise of jurisdiction under 482 of the Cr.P.C ., this dicta of the
Supreme Court will be applicable. In the order dated 16 August 2021,
the Supreme Court has referred to the remedies available to the
 skn 46 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

Applicant under the Cr.P.C ., which includes section 438 for
anticipatory bail. We have not been shown any reason as to why the
Applicant cannot take recourse to this remedy by approaching the
competent court, like any other person apprehending arrest. It is
obvious if the Applicant intends to avail of this remedy under Section
438 of the Cr.P.C., it will be decided on its own merits. 45. We conclude that no case is made out by the Applicant
for the exercise of our jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr. P.C to
restrain Respondent No.1 and Respondent No.2 from taking any
penal/coercive action against the Applicant. If the applicant has
apprehension of arrest, he has the statutory remedy under section
438 of Cr. P.C by approaching the competent court. 46. Grant of prayer clause (c) to direct recording of
Applicant's statement through electronic mode and not to compel his
presence will amount to interfering with the discretion of the
investigating authority as to the manner in which they intend to carry
out the investigation. The Supreme Court in the case of P.
Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement16 in paragraph-64, it is
observed thus: The activity of money laundering is often very complex, masked
under various layers and the methods of investigation resultantly also
are complex. Furthermore, since we have not found that issuance of
summonses to the Applicant is vitiated by malafides or that the
Officers of the Directorate are proceeding beyond their duty and
when the discretion of the Investigating Officer as to the personal
presence of the person called for questioning is not being abused,
there is no reason why we should dictate a different course of
investigation in this case. Thus, the prayer clause (c) to direct
Respondent No.2 to permit the Applicant to appear through an
authorized representative or through any electronic mode and not to
compel the presence of the Applicant in person, is rejected and it is
left to the discretion of the Directorate of Enforcement as regards the
mode. 47. As regards prayer (d) as to the direction to the Directorate
to act in a transparent manner and not to misuse the power, it is not a
specific prayer. Even if it could be considered, it must be first
demonstrated that there is an arbitrary exercise of power, which the
 skn 48 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

Applicant has not established. As regards prayer clauses (f) and (g)
are concerned, they relate to arrest of the Applicant and prayers as
regards not to take coercive steps, which aspect we have already dealt
with. Also, for prayer Clauses (d), (e) and (f), this would arise under Section 19 of the PMLA, which stage, as pointed out by the learned
ASG, has not arisen. 48. As regards the part of prayer clause (h) that the statement
of the Applicant be recorded in the presence of his advocate and the
advocate be permitted to be present at the time of questioning at a
distance, the Applicant relied upon the decision of the Supreme
Court in the case of Birendra Kumar Pandey v. Union of India 17.
In this decision, the Supreme Court observed thus: In fact, the said direction is the very direction that the
 petitioners are seeking in this criminal miscellaneous petition. Apart from the above, this Bench and other Benches of
 this Court have also had occasion to deal with similar matters
 and we had passed similar orders to the extent that the
 petitioners' counsel would be allowed to be present at the
 time of interrogation within visible distance, though beyond
 hearing distance. In our view, the decision which was rendered in Poolpandi 's case (supra) by a Bench of Three Judges, was in
 the context of the direct involvement of the learned counsel
 during the actual interrogation where the lawyer assumed an
 active role during the interrogation. On the other hand, the
 order that has been sought, as passed in various matters, does
 not contemplate such an eventuality. In fact, in terms of the
 orders which we have earlier passed, a lawyer has no role to
 play whatsoever during the interrogation, except to be at a
 distance beyond hearing range to ensure that no coercive
 methods were used during the interrogation. skn 50 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

 Accordingly, we allow the criminal miscellaneous
 petition and direct that the petitioner's advocate should be
 allowed to be present during the interrogation of the
 petitioners but that he should be made to sit at a distance
 beyond hearing range, but within visible range and the
 Lawyer must be prepared to be present whenever the
 petitioners are called upon to attend such interrogation. The criminal miscellaneous petition is disposed of
 accordingly." The learned ASG sought to contend that the order passed in the case
of Birendra Kumar Pandey is per incuriam in the light of the decision
of Poolpandi v. Superintendent, Central Excise18 which is a decision
of three learned Judges in which the request for presence of the
lawyer was rejected. The learned ASG submitted that the decision in
the case of Poolpandi was followed in the case of Senior Intelligence
Officer, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence v. Jugal Kishore
Samra19 . The learned ASG submitted that the decision in the case of
Birendra Kumar Pandey incorrectly records that Poolpandi was a
case of direct involvement during actual interrogation and, thus, the
decision in the case of Poolpandi being of three learned Judges, this
Court should follow the same. It is, however, needs to be noted that
the decision in the case of Birendra Kumar Pandey has referred to
the decision of three learned Judges in Poolpandi and the judgment
in the case of Jugal Kishore Samra. After considering both the
decisions, the Supreme Court, in the case of Birendra Kumar Pandey,
has directed that the advocate for the petitioner therein should be
18 (1992) 3 SCC 259
19 (2011) 12 SCC 362: (2012) 1 SCC (Cri) 573
 skn 51 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

allowed to remain present during the questioning, but he will be
made to sit at a distance beyond the hearing range but within a visible
range. 49. Further, we note that in various cases of the Enforcement
Directorate under the PMLA, the counsel for PMLA Directorate had
accepted that advocate can remain at a visible distance. Two such
orders passed in special leave petitions are placed on record. In SLP
(Cri) Diary No.36376/2017, the Court permitted the counsel for the
respondent to remain present at the visible distance as permissible in
law. In Writ Petition (Cri) No.300/2019 before the Supreme Court,
the only relief sought was the permission for the petitioners' advocate
to remain present during interrogation at a visible distance but not
audible distance and the learned Additional Solicitor General had no
objection, and it was granted. The Division Bench of this Court, in
the order dated 5 May 2017 passed in WP No.1806/2017 ( Rakesh
Natwarlal Patel v. Directorate of Enforcement ), observed that the
relief claimed of advocate's presence is squarely covered by order of
three Judges bench judgment of the Apex Court in Crl. MP No.
10117 of 2012 on 25 April 2012 and in similar circumstances, the
Apex Court directed that the lawyer of the Petitioner should be
allowed to be present during the interrogation of the Petitioner. It was
further directed that he should be made to sit at a distance beyond
hearing range, but within visible distance and the lawyer must be
prepared to be present whenever the petitioners are called upon to
 skn 52 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

attend such investigation. Similar is the order passed by the Division
Bench of this Court in Cr.WP No.1664/2017 on 5 May 2017. There
are, therefore series of such directions. 50. Though it is sought to be contended by the learned ASG
that we should ignore the above referred orders and also hold the
decision in Birendra Kumar Pandey as per incuriam, it is not possible
to do so. As stated earlier, the decision in Birendra Kumar Pandey
has, after referring to the decisions in Poolpandi and Jugal Kishore
Samara, issued directions regarding the lawyer's presence. Whenever
such prayers have come before the court for consideration, both in
Apex Court and in this Court, the counsel for Directorate of
Enforcement has taken the stand that allowing lawyers presence as
above is the position of law. We find no reason as to why this legal
position be deviated in the case of the present Applicant. This does
not interfere with the investigation in any manner, and there is no
specific reason why the Applicant should not be made entitled to this
direction as in all other cases of investigation under PMLA, and the
prayer deserves to be grated. 51. To recapitulate, under the provisions of PMLA, the
issuance of summons is part of the investigation. The High Courts
would not interfere and interdict a lawful investigation under its
powers under section 482 of Cr.P.C. unless exceptional circumstances
as per the settled law are present. None of these grounds exists in the
present case. There is no jurisdictional error in the issuance of
 skn 53 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

summonses as they have been issued by the officers duly authorized
under the PMLA. The object and purpose of PMLA show that it
not only confers powers on the authority to investigate the offence of
money laundering but a duty to investigate it in the larger public
interest. The Applicant, without any valid reason, has refused to co-
operate with the investigation by not attending the summonses
issued by the authorities. The Applicant has failed to establish the
case of legal and factual malice on the part of the Respondent-
Directorate in proceeding with the investigation in question. As
regards the merits of the factual aspect, in oral argument, nothing is
shown to us as to why we should hold in favour of the Applicant.
Suffice it to note that the predicate offence was registered pursuant to
the directions issued by the Division Bench of this Court. Once it is
concluded that no case is made out for interference under section 482 of Cr.P.C. and the application is disposed of, the relief of granting 'no
coercive steps' order cannot now become a consequential relief. As
regards prayer for permission to appear through electronic mode and
not to compel the presence of the Applicant is concerned, it is the
discretion of the Directorate of Enforcement as to the mode of
questioning, and no case is made out that it is abused. The stage
under section 19 of the PMLA has not arisen in this case for us to
consider and comment upon these prayers concerning arrests. The
Supreme Court, in the order dated 16 August 2021, has referred to
the remedies available to the Applicant under Cr.P.C ., which includes section 438 of Cr.P.C. This remedy is also available to those who
 skn 54 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

apprehend arrests. In case the Applicant has any apprehension of
arrest, he may, like any other person, avail of the said remedy by
approaching the competent court on its own merits. The observations
in this judgment in that regard are in the context of jurisdiction
under section 482 of Cr.P.C. The legal question of applicability of
certain provisions of Cr.P.C . to the investigation under the PMLA,
upon which these prayers are based, is under consideration of the
Supreme Court in the petition filed by the Applicant, and we are not
called upon to decide these legal issues. As regards prayer for transfer
of investigation to a special investigating team, in view of the finding
that the Applicant has failed to establish factual or legal malice in the
investigation carried out by the Respondent- Directorate, the prayer
for transfer cannot be considered. As regards the part of prayer
regarding audio/ video-graphing of CCTV camera is concerned, the
same is not shown to fall under any of the provisions of the PMLA.
As regards the prayer of the presence of the Applicant's lawyer at a
visible distance (beyond audible range) during questioning, the same
is justified. 52. To conclude, the Applicant has failed to make out a case
for exercise of jurisdiction under 482 of Cr.P.C . to quash the
impugned summonses and for order directing Respondent Nos.1 and
2 not to take coercive steps against the Applicant. Like any other
person apprehending arrest the Applicant can, if so advised,
approach the competent court relief under section 438 of Cr.P.C. to
 skn 55 3_APL-625.2021.edited 2.doc

 be decided on its own merits. In view of the preceding discussions
 and findings, other prayers are rejected, except the prayer of allowing
 Applicant's lawyer to remain present during the questioning at a
 visible distance but beyond the audible range, which is granted. 53. Accordingly, the following order: 54. Application is disposed of in the above terms.