IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
 KOLKATA BENCH "SMC" KOLKATA

 Before Shri S.S, Godara, Judicial Member ITA No.2260/Kol/2018 Assessment Year:2014-15

Aditya Saraf (HUF) बनाम / Income Tax Officer,
CF-265, Salt Lake City, V/s . Ward-50(3), Uttarapan
Sector-I, Kolkata-700091 Complex, Maniktola
[PAN No.AAFHA 2618 K] Civic Centre,
 Ultadanga, Kolkata-54

 अपीलाथ /Appellant .. यथ /Respondent

अपीलाथ क ओर से/By Appellant Shri Arvind Agarwal, Advocate
 यथ क ओर से/By Respondent Shri C.J. Singh, JCIT-SR-DR

सुनवाई क तार ख/Date of Hearing 04-03-2019 ITA No.2087/Kol/2018 Assessment Year:2014-15

Rinki Agarwal बनाम / Income Tax Officer,
Flat No. 503, Ganga V/s . Ward-36(1), Aayakar
Apartment, Mangal Pandey Bhavan (Poorva), 110,
Road, Siliguri, Darjeeling- Shantipally, Kolkata107
734405
 [PAN No.AIZPS 9573 R]

 अपीलाथ /Appellant .. यथ /Respondent

अपीलाथ क ओर से/By Appellant None
 यथ क ओर से/By Respondent Shri C.J. Singh, JCIT-SR-DR
सुनवाई क तार ख/Date of Hearing 04-03-2019 ITA No.2078/Kol/2018 Assessment Year:2014-15

Rekha Agarwal बनाम / Income Tax Officer,
 Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 2

 Central Plaza, Room No. V/s . Ward-36(1), Aayakar
 5M, 5 t h Floor, 41, B.B. Bhawan Poorva, Room Ganguly Street, Kolkata- No.810, 110 700012 Shantipally, Kolkata- This set of forty one appeal(s) filed by the various assessees for assessment
year(s) 2014-15, 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 arise against the Commissioner of
Income-tax (Appeals) separate order(s) upholding the Assessing Officer(s) identical
 Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 15

action treating their respective Long Term Capital Gains (LTCG) / Long Term Capital
Loss (LTCL) appeal-wise in seriatim to be bogus unexplained cash credits u/s 68,
involving proceedings u/s 143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961; in short 'the Act'.
Relevant details of the impugned addition(s) sums; appeal-wise/assessment year-wise
details are as follows: 2. A combined perusal of the case file(s) reveals that an identical issue of
genuineness and creditworthiness of assessees LTCG claim as exempt u/s10(38) is
involved in all these case(s). All these appeal(s) are therefore disposed of vide its
instant common order. Heard all assessees as well as the Revenue reiterating their respective stands
 against and in support of their impugned unexplained cash credits addition(s). 3. There is no dispute about the basic identical fact that these assessees had
claimed to have derived the impugned LTCG from transfer of shares held in various
scripts. They filed documentary evidence in the nature of bank statements, ledger
accounts, broker's details alongwith the necessary particulars of the concerned scripts.
The Assessing Officer(s) in all cases declined treated the same as unexplained cash
credits u/s 68 of the Act since lacking genuineness / creditworthiness. He took into
account the concerned scripts performance during the relevant holding period,
business activity of the companies, balance-sheet, profit and loss account etc., script
Drice Movement to conclude that these assessees had colluded with entry operators to
 Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 17

claim the impugned bogus LTCG as exempt. He further concluded that the
department's investigation wing had revealed a clinching nexus between promoters
and directors of the scrip entities, entry operators and assessees like in these cases to
be engaged in artificial rigging of the scrip prices. The CIT(A) has confirmed the
same in all these appeal(s). Lead case appeal ITA No.2256/Kol/2018 contains the
following lower appellate discussion:- individual. The economic parameters of the said company over the impugned period has also
 been brought on record, in the analysis. The rise and fall of the prices as recorded had been
 brought out by the Ld. AO to be artificial and not commensurate with the normal market, as
 the Company has no business at all. The Ld. AO has also brought forth information that the
 Regulatory Authority SEBI has also after investigating such abnormal price increases of
 certain stocks investigated the matter and suspended trading in certain scripts. It is very clear
 that the prices of these scripts fell sharply after the offloading of these scripts by pre-arranged
 and manipulated transactions. The entire transactions were carried out on the Stock Exchange
 to give it a color of real transactions. 2. I also find that the submissions made by the appellant during the course of the appeal point
 towards the elaborate documentation, meaning thereby that the appellant has produced papers
 relating to application for the shares, the allotment of the shares, the share certificates
 payments by cheque and the necessary papers filed before the Registrar of companies, where
 the name of the assessee has been reflected as a shareholder. The appellant has also filed
 proof of amalgamation of the companies wherein the shareholding has changed hands. It is
 also the contention of the appellant that it has provided copies of the bank statement, bank
 contract notes and delivery instructions to the broker by way of proof that an these
 transactions were genuine. However, In my view of the matter, it is precisely this elaborate
 paperwork that strengthens the matter relating to the bogus benefit of the LTCG, which
 clearly has been schemed, pre-planned and executed with mala fide intelligence and precision.
 Therefore all these papers are mere documents and not any evidence. The whole gamut of
 transactions are unnatural and highly suspicious, and therefore the rules of SUSPICIOUS
 TRRNSACTIONS ought to apply in the instant case. There are grave doubts in the story
 propounded by the assessee before the authorities below, None of the material produced
 before the Ld. AO by the assessee-appellant are enough to justify the humongous gains
 accruing to the assessee by way of Capital Gains,. In my considered view banking documents
 are mere self serving recitals. The lawit1 the matter of self-serving recitals has been long
 established by the Hon'ble apex Court. In the case of CIT vs P Mohankala 291 ITR 278, the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the money came by way of bank cheque and was paid
 Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 18

 through the process of banking transactions Was not by itself Of any consequences. 1/ The
 burden of proof is on the assessee in the matter of justification of receipts which are of
 suspicious and dubious nature, In the case of CIT Durga Prasad More (1971) 82 ITR 540
 (SC), their Lordships laying down the significance of human probabilities held as under: "in a
 case where a party relied on self serving recitals in documents, it was for that party to
 establish the truth of those recitals: the taxing authorities were entitled to look into the
 surrounding circumstances to Find out the reality such recitals. " Similarly in the case of Sumati Dayal vs. CIT (1995) 214 ITR 801 (SC), their Lordships held as under: "In view of section 68 of the Act, where any sum is found credited in the books of the assessee tor any
 previous veer, the same may be charged to income tax as the income of the assesses of' that
 previous veer if the explanation offered by the assessee about the nature and source thereof is,
 in the opinion of the Assessing Officer not satisfactory. In such a case, there is prima facie,
 evidence against the assessee viz. the receipt of money, and if he fails to rebut, the said
 evidence being un-rebutted, can be used against him by holding that it was a receipt of an
 income nature. "In the case of Sajjan Das & Sons vs. CIT (2003) 264 ITR 435 (Delhi), their
 Lordships of the High Court of Delhi, while considering a case in which gifts were received
 by the assessee through banking channels laid importance on the capacity of the donor for
 making the gift and his identity as well as importance of relationship between the donor and
 done in determination of genuineness of gift held as under: "That a mere identification of the
 donor and showing the movement of the gift amount through banking channels was not
 sufficient to prove the genuineness of the gift. Since the claim of the gift was made by the
 assessee, the onus lay on him not only to establish the identity of the person making the gift
 but also his capacity to make a gift and that it had actually been received as a gift from the
 door."In my considered view wherever documents are relied upon they should pass the test of
 normal behaviour of the assessee in the curse of business viz., human conduct,
 preponderance of probability and surrounding circumstances. In my considered view, even if
 documentary evidence is produced, the same must pass the test of human probabilities and
 surrounding circumstances if they do not, then addition justified. Reliance on such matters is
 placed on the case of Smt. Phoolwati Devi 314 ITR (AT) 1 (Del). 3. It must also be stated here that in Commissioner of Income Tax vs NR Portfolio Pvt Ltd on
 22 November, 2013, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court has held... ... 4. In this connection, I also wish to refer to the decision of the Hon'ble ITAT Bombay Bench
 'B' ITA(No.614/Bom/87 A.Y. 1983-84) in the case of M/s. Mont Blane Properties and
 Industries Pvt. Ltd., which was upheld by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. The Hori'ble Tribunal
 herd that the word 'evidence' as used in sec. 143(3) covered circumstantial evidence also. The
 word 'evidence' as used in sec. 143 (3) obviously could not be confined to direct evidence.
 The word 'evidence' was comprehensive enough to cover the circumstantial evidence also.
 Under the tax jurisprudence, the word 'evidence' had much wider connotations. While the
 word 'evidence' might recall the oral and documentary evidence as may be admissible under
 the Indian evidence Act the use of word 'material' in Sec.143(3) Snowed that the assessing
 officer, not being a court could rely upon material, which might not be evidence admissible
 under the Indian Evidence Act for the purpose of making an order' of assessment. Court often
 took judicial notice of certain facts which need not be proved before them. The plain reading
 of section 142 and 143 clearly suggests that the assessing officer may also act on the material
 gathered by him. The ward 'material' dearly shows that the assessing officer is not fettered by
 the technical rules of evidence and the like, and that he may act on material which may not
 strictly speaking be accepted evidence in court of law. 5. The Hon'bte Supreme Court in CIT v, Durga Prasad More [1971] 82 ITR 540 at pages 545-
 547 made a reference to the test of human probabilities in the following fact situation :. CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE HOW TO BE USED
 6.13 It would, at this stages, be relevant to consider the admissibility and use of
 circumstantial evidence in income tax proceedings. Circumstantial evidence is
 evidence of the circumstances, as opposed to direct evidence. It may consist of
 evidence afforded by the bearing on the fact to be proved, of other and subsidiary
 facts, which are relied on as inconsistent with any result other than the truth of the
 principal fact. It is evidence of various facts, other than the truth of the principle fact.
 It is evidence of various are so associated with the fact in issue, that taken together,
 they form a chain of circumstances leading to an inference or presumption of the
 existence of the principal fact. In the appreciation of circumstantial evidence, the
 relevant aspects, as laid down from time to time are - (1) the circumstances alleged must be established by such evidence, as in the
 case of other evidence. (2) the circumstances proved m9uste be of a conclusive nature and not totally
 inconsistent with the circumstances or contradictory to other evidence.
 (3) although there should be no missing links in the case, yet it is not essential
 that every one of the links must appear on the surface of the evidence
 adduced; some of these links may have to inferred from the proved facts;
 (4) in drawing those inferences or presumptions, the Authorities must have
 regarded to the common course of natural events, to human conduct and their
 relation to the facts of the particular case. (5) The circumstantial evidence can, with equal facility, be restored to in
 proof of a fact in issue which arises in proceedings for the assessment of
 taxes both direct and indirect, circumstantial evidence can be made use of in
 order to prove or disprove a fact alleged or in issue. In fact, in whatever
 proceedings or context inferences are required to be drawn from the evidence
 or materials available or lacking, circumstantial evidence has its place to
 assist the process of arriving at the truth." 6.14 It will also be worthwhile to consider the nature of burden of proof on the AO
 for proving a fact or circumstances in the income tax proceedings. The questions
 raised about the tax liability by the AO are to be answered by the assessee by
 furnishing reasonable and plausible explanations. If assessee is not forthcoming with
 proper or complete facts or his statement or explanation is contradictory, drawing of
 suitable inferences and estimation of facts is inevitable. Courts generally will not
 interfere with such estimate of facts, unless the inferences or estimates are perverse or
 capricious. 6.15. The Assessee's technical contentions about admissibility and reliance on
 material available on the AO's record are in the nature of contentions challenging
 criminal or civil liabilities in a court of law. We are dealing with a process of
 adjudication of assessees tax liability i.e. assessment under Income Tax Act rather
 than conducting criminal or civil court proceedings. As held by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in the case of S.S. Gadgil (supra) no 'lis" is involved in adjudication of tax
 liability. The Assessee's contention that there was no new material before the AO
 after the CIT(A)'s setting aside order cannot be accepted. New information and
 material did indeed come on record. In our view, in a sensitive matter like this, even a
 single clue or revelation can be of great importance. To reverse the order of the AO
 on this technical plea will amount to taking a lopsided view of the proceedings.
 Besides, the JPC has underlined the importance of Reports of investigation agencies
 like CBI DRI, ED whose were in the offing, as the relevant investigations were in
 process. In view of these observations, we do not accede to the assessee's pleas in this
 behalf. The Assessee's contentions and objections in this behalf that the material
 Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 22

 available on record was not admissible as evidence and that it cannot be relied on by
 the AO, are devoid of any merit and are rejected outright....." 8. When the impossible is projected as possible through a plethora of well arranged
 documents, It would be very reasonable to reject the documents outright as make believe and
 self serving. In the Case of Usha Chandresh Shah Vs ITO, Ward-19 (1)(2), Mumbai, the
 Hon'ble ITAT-"F"- Bench Mumbai by their Order for A.Y 2006-07 dated 26th September,
 2014 have, in the operational portion adjudicated as under: 9. We have heard the rival contentions and perused the record. The pertinent points are that
 me assessee has claimed to have purchased the impugned shares through Off market
 transaction. The purchase price was not paid by Cheque, but it was claimed to have been
 adjusted against the speculation profit claimed to have been made by the assessee. The small
 difference of Rs.324/- was claimed to have been paid by way of cash. It is .,(so pertinent to
 note that the alleged Speculation transaction carried out earlier to the purchase of shares of
 Prime Capital Markets Ltd was also claimed to have been carried in off market transaction.
 Another important point is that the assessee did not possess copies of Share certificates or
 copies of Share transfer forms. The , broker M/s Khandelwal & Co., has expressed its
 inability to furnish copies of contract notes available with it and also failed to furnish its
 books of account to substantiate the transactions of purch85e of shares by the assessee. Since
 the impugned transaction was an off market transaction, the purchase transaction could not be
 confirmed by the Kolkata Stock exchange. The seta shares were earlier held by M/s Brightsun
 Merchants (P) Ltd .and the assessee had purchased the shares from them. The notice issued to
 M/s Brightsun Merchants (P) Ltd was returned unserved by the postal authorities with the
 remark "unknown". In this regard the assessee had replied that the name of the company was
 wrongly mentioned by the AO as M/s Brightsuns (P)Ltd and hence the notice got returned.
 But there is not comment about the address, meaning thereby, the AO had issued notice to the
 correct address only and hence the slight variation in the name of the company would not
 normally make any difference. Hence the fact that the notice was returned back only shows
 that the seller of the shares could not be identified. All these discussions would show that the
 purchase transaction could not be cross verified by the assessing officer. 10. One more point to be noted here is that the speculation transactions can be entered only
 payment of margin money. But the details of said payment are not available. With regard to
 the query raised by the AO relation to Margin money, the broker M/s D,K. KhandeJwal & Co
 has replied In the context of purchase of shares of M/s Prime Capital Markets Ltd and not in
 the context of speculation transactions. Thus, It is seen that the question of keeping margin
 money for speculation transactions remains unanswered both by the assessee as well as by the
 Share broker cited above. Further the speculation transaction is also claimed to be an off
 market transaction, which further casts shadow of doubt over the claim put forth by the
 assessee. 11. Though the assessee has claimed to have purchased the shares in physical formation May,
 2004, she chose to D-Mat the same only in June 2005, just two months prior to its sale, The
 shares were sold through a share broker named Sanju Kabra, who is indicted SEBI for rigging
 the prices of penny stock shares. It is pertinent to note that the share prices of M/s Prime
 Capital Markets Ltd went from Rs.5, 17 (May, 2004) to Rs.279,50 (Sep., 2005). The assessee
 could not furnish any reasons or at-least stock market news to support: the abnormal increase
 In the prices of the above said shares. The financial statements of the above said company
 were also not produced. Though M/s Prime Capital Markets Led has confirmed the entries in
 its books of account with regard to the purchases made by the assessee, it could not identify
 the name of purchaser to whom the shares were sold by the assessee. 12. We have already seen the the tax authorities have applied the test of human probabilities
 explained by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the cases of Sumati Dayal and Durga Prased More
 Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 23

 (supra) to disbelieve the claim of Long term Capital gains put forth by the assessee. We notice
 that the test of human probabilities was not applied by the co-ordinate benches of Tribunal In
 the case of Shri Avinosh Kantilal Jain (supra) and Mr. Shyam R Pawar (supra). Hence, in our
 view) the assessee cannot take support from the above said decisions, We further notice that
 the ld CIT(A) has placed reliance on the decision dated 04.1.2011 rendered by ITAT Delhi In
 the case of Haresh Win Chaddha Vs. DDIT, wherein the Tribunal has expressed the view that
 there is no presumption in law that the AO is supposed to discharge an impossible burden to
 assess the tax liability by direct evidence only and to establish the evasion beyond doubt as in
 criminal proceedings. Further It was held that: the AO can assess on consideration of material
 available on record, surrounding circumstances, human conduct, preponderance of
 probabilities and nature of Incriminating information / evidence available on record. 13. In the case of Smt. Jamnadevi Agrawal (supra), the Hon'ble Bombay High Court has
 upheld the order of Tribunal on the reasoning that no fault can be found with the findings
 recorded by the Tribunal. A perusal of the above said order would Show that the revenue in
 the above said· case had contended that the assessees in the group have purchased and sold
 shares of similar compat1ieS through the same broker. Further the purchase prices and sale
 prices were supported by producing the evidence to show that the said transactions were
 undertaken at the rates prevailing on the respective dates. Under these set of facts, the High
 Court held that the findings given by the Tribunal cannot be found fault with the further held
 that the decision rendered by Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the case of Sumati Dayal (supra) was not applicable. In the case of Shri
 Mukesh Ratilal Marolia (supra), the Hon'ble Bombay high court has observed that the
 assessee has furnished copies of share certificates to show that the shares were in fact
 transferred to the name of the assessee before it. Further there was no allegation that the
 prices of shares purchased by the assessee in the case before High court were manipulated. 14. However, in the instant case, the assessee could not produce the copies of share
 certificates and copies of share transfer forms. The transaction of purchase of shares could not
 be cross verified. The shares of M/s Prime Capital Markets Ltd was declared as "Penny
 Stock" by SEBI and the broker Sanaju Kabra, through whom the shares were sold by the
 assessee was indicated for manipulating the prices of penny stock shares. Hence, in our view,
 the tax authorities have rightly applied the test of human probabilities to examine the claim of
 purchase and sale of shares made by the assessee. 15. We notice that the M9umbai D bench has considered an identical issue in the case of Shri
 Ramesh Kumar D Jain in ITA No.3192/Mum/2010 relating to assessment year 2006-07. The
 Tribunal vide its order dated 15-06-2011, rejected the claim of making speculation gains on
 the reasoning that speculation transactions could not haves been entered into by the assessee
 therein without paying margin money to the broker. Accordingly, the claim of purchase of
 shares was rejected by the Tribunal and consequently the claim of sale of shares was also
 rejected. It is pertinent to note that, in the decisions relied upon by the assessee, the claim of
 speculation profits was not considered by the Tribunal. In yet another case of Shri Araving M
 Kariya considered by "A" bench of Mumbai ITAT, the test of human probabilities was
 applied to reject the claim of profit realized on sale of penny stocks. There should not be any
 dispute that the onus to produce necessary evidences to convincingly show that the shares
 were purchased and sold at the prices claimed always lies upon the assessee. Our view finds
 support from the decision rendered by Hon'ble Guwahati High Court in the case of CIT vs.
 Smt. Jasvinder Kaur (357 ITR 638) 16. In view of the foregoing discussions, we are of the view that the decisions relied upon by
 the assessee cannot be taken support of by the assessee for the reasons discussed supra.
 Accordingly, we are of the view that the Ld CIT(A) was justified in confirming the order of
 the assessing officer by applying the test of human probabilities. 17. In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee is dismissed. [Unquote]
 Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 24 9. Reliance is also placed In the case of Somnath Maini Vs ITO (226) 100 TTJ 917 wherein
 the Hon'ble Chandigarh bench of ITAT held that if facts and circumstances so warrant that it
 does not accord with the test of human probabilities, transactions have to be held to be non
 genuine. 3. The relevant facts briefly stated are that during the course of assessment
 proceedings, the AO observed that assessee had incurred a long term capital loss on
 account of sale of gold jewellery declared under the VDIS, 1997, amounting to
 Rs.19,87,705 and also there was a short-term capital gain near to this amount of long-
 term capital loss amounting to Rs.20,36,700 resulting into net capital gain of
 Rs.48,995. The AO on perusal of record further observed that in the case of a family
 member of the same assessee Shri D.C. Maini, in the same assessment year, similar
 exercise has been done by the assessee wherein a long-term capital loss of
 Rs.11,59,066 had been incurred on account of sale of gold jewellery declared under
 the VDIS and short-term capital gain of Rsw.11,75,100 resulting into a net gain of
 Rs.16,034. On going through the nature of transactions, the AO doubted the
 genuineness of the short-term capital gain in the case of the assessee and he made
 further inquiry that during the year assessee had purchased 45,000 shares of M/s
 Ankur International Ltd. At varying rates from Rs.2,06 to Rs.3.1 per share and sold
 them within a short span of six-seven months at the rate varying from Rs.47.75 to
 Rs.55. These shares were purchased through a broker Munish Arora & Co. And sold
 through another broker M/s S.K. Sharma & Co. The AO took by surprise the
 astronomical rise in shares price of a company from Rs.3 to Rs.55 and started further
 inquiry. The AO issued notice under Section 131 to both the brokers from whom
 shares were purchased and sold and statements were recorded. The AO also analyzed
 the balance sheet of M/s Ankur International Ltd. To justify as to how the share price
 of a company can go up from a mere Rs.3 to Rs.55 in a short span of six to seven
 months' time. The AO made detailed and extraneous exercise of finding the
 fundamental of the share of the company by different methods and concluded that
 these shares were not genuine and transactions were so arranged so as to cover up the
 loss incurred on account of sale of jewellery only. the AO also recorded the finding
 that transactions were done at Ludhiana where also the share price of the company is
 quoted but maximum value of the share quoted was Rs.17 but that was only in July,
 1997, i.e. long before the shares were sold by the assessee to M/s S/.K. Sharma &
 Co. In the months of February and March, 1998. The AO also recorded the finding
 that although the shares were transferred in the name of the assessee, they were still
 lying in the name of assessee much after the sale to M/s S.K. Sharma & Co. The
 learned CIT(A) deleted the addition on the ground that both the brokers from whom
 the shares have been purchased and sold were called under Section 31 by the AO.
 Both have confirmed the sale and purchase of said shares. Other aspect of the facts
 and circumstances raised by the AO was not discussed by the CIT(A) in his order. 4. In appeal before us, the learned Departmental Representative contended that it is
 highly improbable that shares of a company go up so high in few months' time. The
 learned Departmental Representative took us through various pages of the assessment
 order and the paper book wherein sale bill of the shares with the said M/s S.K.
 Sharma & Co. were also filed. The learned Departmental Representative pointed out
 that shares have been sold at Ludhiana when actually stock exchange was not
 functional - a fact which is also recorded by the AO. The learned Departmental
 Representative also pointed out that shares have been sold to M/s S.K. Sharma & Co.
 On 9th Feb., 1998 and 23rd March, 1998, whereas from the statement of account of
 M/s S.K. Sharma & Co. Payments have been received by the assessee from 31st
 March, 1988 to 27th July, 1998, meaning thereby that had the transactions been
 genuine, payment could have been received in one go by S./K. Sharma & Co. The
 learned Departmental Representative pointed out that any such type of transactions
 relating to these types of company operating on stock exchanges payments are
 Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 25

 received in piecemeal whereas in normal market share transactions, contract notes are
 issued by the broker and payments are received in one go. The learned Departmental
 Representative also argued that as per the statement of S.K. Sharma & Co. Recorded
 at the time of inquiry, he did not produce any books of account and identity of
 persons to whom the shares have been sold. Ordinarily, when brokers are enquired
 about share transactions, they keep proper books of account form, whom shares have
 been purchased and sold. However, in this case,
 S.K. Sharma & Co. failed to provide the names of purchases of the shares and identity
 of the purchasers. 5. On the other hand, the leaned Authorised Representative contended that in the
 share market, share price does not move according to the fundamentals of a company.
 They go up and down as per sentiments prevailing at that time. To controvert, the
 argument of the learned Departmental Representative, he argued that share prices are
 quoted at Jaipur Stock Exchange and were quoted on the relevant date of sale at the
 same price on which shares were sold to M/s S.K. Sharma & Co. However, the
 learned Departmental Representative controverted his argument by saying that
 volume of transactions on the relevant dates is only 600 shares on 9th Feb., 1998 and
 1000 shares on 23rd March, 1998 whereas number of shares involved in the
 transactions with S.K. Sharma & Co. are 45000 shares. 6. After hearing the rival submissions, going through the orders of authorities below and
 paper book, we find that M/s Ankur International Ltd., although it is a quoted company, its
 shares were not being transacted at Ludhiana Stock Exchange ate, the relevant time. Shares
 have been purchased and sold through the brokers and payments have been received in
 cheque on different dates as per the statement of account of M/s S.K. Sharma & Co. Factual
 matrix of the case from start of the purchase of shares at the rate of Rs.3 to the sale of shares
 at Rs.55 in a short span of time and shares being not, quoted at Ludhiana Stock Exchange and
 the way in which different, installment payments have been received from the brokers and
 non-availability of the records of the brokers and the shares remaining in the name of assessee
 even long after the sale of the shares does not stand the test of probabilities. As rightly
 pointed out by the learned Departmental Representative, these types of companies function in
 the capital market whose sale price is manipulated to astronomical height only to create the
 artificial transaction in the form of capital gain. Surrounding circumstances differ from the
 normal share market transactions in which they are ordinarily carried out. Taking all the steps
 together, final conclusion does not accord with the human probabilities. The Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in the case of CIT v. Durga Prasad More held as under: 7. The learned CIT(A) only got swayed by the issuance of notice by the AO under Section
 131 to both the brokers from whom shares were purchased and sold and came to the
 conclusion that share transactions were genuine overlooking the material gathered by the AO
 from the statements recorded of broker M/s S.K. Sharma & Co. and the other facts and
 circumstances that volume of transactions of Jaipur Stock Exchange is only 600 shares and
 1000 shares. Payments have been received from the brokers only in installments over a period
 of 6-7 months. It is true that when transactions are through cheques, it looks like real
 transaction but authorities are permitted to look behind the transactions and find out the
 Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 26

 motive behind transactions. Generally, it is expected that apparent is real but it is not
 sacrosanct. If facts and circumstances so warrant that it does not accord with the test of
 human probabilities, transactions have been held to be non-genuine, it is highly improbable
 that share price of a worthless company can go from Rs.3 to Rs.55 in a short span of time.
 Mere payment by cheque and receipt by cheque does not. Render a transaction genuine.
 Capital gain tax was created to operate in a real world and not that of make belief. Facts of the
 case only lead to the inference that these transactions are not genuine and make believe only
 to offset the loss incurred on the sale of jewellery declared under VDIS. In considered view
 that the CIT(A) was not justified in deleting the impugned addition. We, accordingly set aside
 order of the CIT(A) and restore that of the AO. 8. In the result, the appeal of the Revenue is allowed. [Unquote] 10. Moreover, all the judgements relied upon by the appellant fall flat in the face of the facts
 of the case, and the preponderance of probability against the assessee. In a decision of the
 Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain Vs. Pr. CIT by their order
 dated 10th April, 2017 have upheld the orders of the Hon'ble ITGAT, Nagpur Bench dated
 18.07.2016 in ITA No.61/Nag/2013 in Sanjay Bimalchand Jain Vs ITO, Ward-4 (2), Nagpur,
 wherein it was held that on the facts emergent in the case, and the preponderance of
 probabilities, entire Capital Gains claims were to be treated as fictitious and bogus.
 Bogus LTCG from Penny stocks. The assessee has not tendered cogent evidence to explain
 how the shares in an unknown company worth Rs.5 had jumped to Rs.485 in no time. The
 fantastic sale price was not at all possible as there was no economic or financial basis to
 justify the price rise. The assessee had indulged in a dubious share transaction meant to
 account for the undisclosed income in the garb of long term capital gain. The gain has
 accordingly to be assessed as undisclosed credit u/s. 68 . In view of the above discussion, I find no infirmity in the orders of the Ld. AO, and I confirm
 the same, holding the claim of LTCG of Rs.29,69,082/- to be bogus. As a natural corollary, I
 also confirm the addition of Rs.8,000;- as made by the Ld. AO. Therefore these grounds of
 appeal numbering 2 to 6 stands dismissed." 4. This leads all these assessees agreed. I have given my thoughtful consideration
to rival contention. There can hardly be any dispute that assessee have placed on
record their identical paper book(s) comprising of relevant purchased bills of shares,
allotment, certified copies, contract notes, brokerage details etc. I put up a specific
query as to whether any of entry operators searched or survey has quoted these
assessees names or not before the Departmental Authorities. There is no such material
in the case file indicating search as statement. I find that this co-ordinate bench's
decision in ITA No. 1918/Kol/2018 in Smt. Sangita Jhunjhunwala vs. ITO decided on
04.01.2019 has deleted similar bogus LTCG vide following detailed discussion in para
3 to 5 as under:- 2013-14 and 2014-15 in respect of long term capital gains are enclosed. Annexure IV. 10. The Equity Shares of M/s Unno Industries Ltd. were submitted for dematerialization on
 01.04.2013 and credited to my Demat A/c No. 1203450000003128 with M/s Ashika Stock
 Broking Ltd. (DP ID No. 12034500) on 12.04.2013 (91000 shares).
 Details of Sale of Share for Long Term Capital Gain financial year 2013-14(A.Y.2014- 15): whose details are as under: Address: Trinity, 7th Floor, 226/1, A.J.C. Bose Road, Kolkata-700020.
 Contact No. 033 22839952. b) Name: Guiness Securities Ltd. Address: Guiness House, 18, Deshpriya Park Road, Kolkata-700026
 Contact No. 033 30015555. 3. Contract Notes issued regarding sale of equity shares of Unno Industries Ltd. on
 Bombay Stock Exchange by SEBI registered brokers- Ashika Stock Broking Ltd. and
 Guiness Securities ltd. are enclosed. Annexure V. 4. The relevant Demat Account statements of Ashika Stock Broking Ltd. and Guiness
 Securities Ltd. reflecting the debit of shares of Unno Industries Ltd. upon sale are
 enclosed. (entries highlighted). Annexure VI. Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 29 5. The Ledger of the brokers of Ashika Stock Broking Ltd. and Guiness Securities Ltd.
 for the financial year 2013-14 are enclosed. Annexure VII. 6. Tamilnad Mercantile Ltd. bank Statement reflecting the receipts of sale consideration
 from the SEBI registered stock brokers (highlighting the said entries) is enclosed.
 Annexure VIII. 7. Out of sale consideration money of Rs. 3151423.00 from Unno Industries Ltd. a sum
 of Rs. 3150000.00 has been invested in equity shares of Glow Diam Designs Pvt. Ltd. All the evidences were attached as annexures as stated above. 6. The Assessing Officer in his order did not refer to any of these evidences. Instead at para 6
 and 7 he concluded held as follows: 7. Thereafter the AO made an addition under 68 of the Act. Aggrieved the assessee carried the
 matter an appeal. The ld. First appellate authority confirmed the action of the AO on the
 ground that, the transaction in question comes within the ambit of 'Suspicious Transaction'
 and therefore, the rules of 'Suspicious Transaction' would apply to the case. He further stated
 that the payments through bank of processing of transaction through stock exchange and other
 such features are only apparent features and that the real feature are the manipulation and
 abnormal price raise and the sudden dip thereafter. Based on surrounding circumstances and
 circumstantial evidence and the order of the Tribunal in the case of " Bhag Chand Chabra
 (HUF) vs. ITO ", in I.T.A. No. 3088& 3107/2007 dated 31.12.2010, the addition made by the
 AO was confirmed. Aggrieved the assessee is in appeal before us. 8. A perusal of the order of the AO demonstrates that this addition was made merely on
 "suspicion" and in a routine and mechanical manner. This is clear from the fact that the AO
 refers to some 'Sharp Trading Company as one of the main ,manipulated company and
 whereas the assessee sold scrips in Unno Industries Ltd. The AO refers to various enquiries
 Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 30

 made by "The Directors of Income Tax", Kolkata on project basis and that this resulted into
 unearthing of a huge syndicate of entry operators and share brokers and money lenders
 involved in providing of bogus accommodation entries. The report as the so-called project and
 the evidence collected by the DIT (Inv.), Kolkata etc have not been brought on record. It is
 well settled that any document relied upon by the AO for making an addition has to be
 supplied to the assessee and an opportunity should be provided to the assessee to rebut the
 same. In this case, general statements have been made by the AO and the addition is made
 based on such generalizations. The assessee has not been confronted with any of the evidence
 collected in the investigation done by the DIT(Inv.), Kolkata. Evidence collected from third
 parties cannot be used against the assessee without giving a copy of the same to the assessee
 and thereafter giving him an opportunity to rebut the same. 9. The AO further relies on the shop increase of 31000% of the value of shares over the
 period of 2 years. Though this is highly suspicious, it cannot take the place of evidence. The
 Hon'ble Supreme Court has stated that suspicion however strong cannot be the basis for
 making an addition. The evidence produced by the assessee listed above proves his case and
 the AO could not controvert the same by bringing on record any evidence. The evidence said
 to have been collected by the DIT (INV.), Kolkata and the report is not produced before this
 Bench. 10. I now discuss the case law on the subject. The Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of
 CIT, Kolkata-III vs. Smt. Shreyashi Ganguli reported in [2012] (9) TMI 1113 held as follows: The "D" Bench of the Kolkata Tribunal in the case of Gautam Kumar Pincha vs. ITO , in
 I.T.A. No. 569/Kol/2017 dated 15.11.2017 at para 19 onwards held as follows: The Hon'ble High Court held that the opinion of the AO that the assessee generated a
 sizeable amount of loss out of prearranged transactions so as to reduce the quantum
 of income liable for tax might have been the view expressed by the ld AO but he
 miserably failed to substantiate that. The High Court held that the transactions were
 Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 31

 at the prevailing price and therefore the suspicion of the AO was misplaced and not
 substantiated. ( ii) CIT V. Lakshmangarh Estate & Trading Co. Limited [2013] 40 taxmann.com 439 (Cal) - In this case the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court held that on the basis of a suspicion howsoever
 strong it is not possible to record any finding of fact. As a matter of fact suspicion can never
 take the place of proof. It was further held that in absence of any evidence on record, it is
 difficult if not impossible, to hold that the transactions of buying or selling of shares were
 colourable transactions or were resorted to with ulterior motive. (iii) CIT V. Shreyashi Ganguli [ITA No. 196 of 2012] (Cal HC) - In this case the Hon'ble
 Calcutta High Court held that the Assessing Officer doubted the transactions since the selling
 broker was subjected to SEBI's action. However the transactions were as per norms and
 suffered STT, brokerage, service tax, and cess. There is no iota of evidence over the
 transactions as it were reflected in demat account. The appeal filed by the revenue was
 dismissed. ( iv) CIT V. Rungta Properties Private Limited [ITA No. 105 of 2016] (Cal HC) - In this
 case the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court affirmed the decision of this tribunal , wherein, the
 tribunal allowed the appeal of the assessee where the AO did not accept the explanation of
 the assessee in respect of his transactions in alleged penny stocks. The Tribunal found that the
 AO disallowed the loss on trading of penny stock on the basis of some information received by
 him. However, it was also found that the AO did not doubt the genuineness of the documents
 submitted by the assessee. The Tribunal held that the AO's conclusions are merely based on
 the information received by him. The appeal filed by the revenue was dismissed. ( v) CIT V. Andaman Timbers Industries Limited [ITA No. 721 of 2008] (Cal HC) - In this
 case the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court affirmed the decision of this Tribunal wherein the loss
 suffered by the Assessee was allowed since the AO failed to bring on record any evidence to
 suggest that the sale of shares by the Assessee were not genuine. ( vi) CIT V. Bhagwati Prasad Agarwal [2009- TMI-34738 (Cal HC) in ITA No. 22 of
 2009 dated 29.4.2009] - In this case the Assessee claimed exemption of income from
 Long Term Capital Gains. However, the AO, based on the information received by
 him from Calcutta Stock Exchange found that the transactions were not recorded
 thereat. He therefore held that the transactions were bogus. The Hon'ble
 Jurisdictional High Court, affirmed the decision of the Tribunal wherein it was found
 that the chain of transactions entered into by the assessee have been proved,
 accounted for, documented and supported by evidence. It was also found that the
 assessee produced the contract notes, details of demat accounts and produced
 documents showing all payments were received by the assessee through banks. On
 these facts, the appeal of the revenue was summarily dismissed by High Court. 8.4. In the light of the documents stated i.e. (I to xiv) in Para 6(supra) we find that there is
 absolutely no adverse material to implicate the assessee to have entered gamut of
 unfounded/unwarranted allegations leveled by the AO against the assessee, which in our
 considered opinion has no legs to stand and therefore has to fall. We take note that the ld. DR
 could not controvert the facts supported with material evidences which are on record and could
 only rely on the orders of the AO/CIT(A). We note that in the absence of material/evidence the
 allegations that the assessee/brokers got involved in price rigging/manipulation of shares must
 therefore also fail. At the cost of repetition, we note that the assessee had furnished all relevant
 evidence in the form of bills, contract notes, demat statement and bank account to prove the
 genuineness of the transactions relevant to the purchase and sale of shares resulting in long
 term capital gain. These evidences were neither found by the AO nor by the ld. CIT(A) to be
 false or fictitious or bogus. The facts of the case and the evidence in support of the evidence
 clearly support the claim of the assessee that the transactions of the assessee were genuine and
 the authorities below was not justified in rejecting the claim of the assessee that income from
 Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 32

 LTCG is exempted u/s 10(38) of the Act. For coming to such a conclusion we rely on the
 decision of the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of M/s. Alipine Investments in ITA
 No.620 of 2008 dated 26th August, 2008 wherein the High Court held as follows : 8.5. We note that the ld. AR cited plethora of the case laws to bolster his claim which are not
 being repeated again since it has already been incorporated in the submissions of the ld. AR
 (supra) and have been duly considered by us to arrive at our conclusion. The ld. DR could not
 bring to our notice any case laws to support the impugned decision of the ld. CIT(A)/AO. In the
 aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, we hold that the ld. CIT(A) was not justified in
 upholding the addition of sale proceeds of the shares as undisclosed income of the assessee u/s
 68 of the Act. We, therefore, direct the AO to delete the addition. 9. In the result the appeal of the assessee is allowed." The "A" bench of the Kolkata Tribunal in the case of ITO vs. Shaleen Khemani in I.T.A. No.
 1945/Kol/2014 dated 18.10.2017 at para 9.1. to 9.4 held as follows: The ld AO doubted the transactions due to the high rise in the stock price but for that,
 the assessee could not be blamed and there was no evidence to prove that the assessee
 or any one on his behalf was manipulating the stock prices. The stock exchange and
 SEBI are the authorities appointed by the Government of India to ensure that there is
 no stock rigging or manipulation. The ld AO has not brought any evidence on record
 to show that these agencies have alleged any stock manipulation against the assessee
 and or the brokers and or the Company. In absence of any evidences it cannot be said
 that merely because the stock price moved sharply, the assessee was to be blamed for
 bogus transactions. It is also to be seen that in this case, the shares were held by the
 Donors from 2003 and sold in 2010 thus there was a holding period of 7 years as per Section 49 of the Act and it cannot be said that the assessee and the Donors were
 making such plans for the last 7 years to rig the stock price to generate bogus capital
 gains that too without any evidences whatsoever. 9.2 It is also pertinent to note that the assessee and / or the stock broker M/s P
 Didwania & Co and Toshith Securities P Ltd., both registered share and stock brokers
 with Calcutta Stock Exchange had confirmed the transaction and have issued legally
 valid contract notes under the Law and such contract notes are available in pages 41-
 52 of the Paper Book. We find that the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of Pr
 CIT Vs Rungta Properties Private Limited ITAT No 105 of 2016 dated 8th May 2017 in
 a similar issue dismissed the appeal of the Department by making the following
 observations: We agree with the reasoning of the Tribunal on this point also. We do not find any
 reason to interfere with the impugned order. The suggested questions, in our opinion
 do not raise any substantial question of law. 9.3. We therefore hold that there is absolutely no adverse material to implicate the
 assessee to the entire gamut of unwarranted allegations leveled by the ld AO against
 the assessee, which in our considered opinion, has no legs to stand in the eyes of law.
 We find that the ld DR could not controvert the arguments of the ld AR with contrary
 material evidences on record and merely relied on the orders of the ld AO. We find
 that the allegation that the assessee and / or Brokers getting involved in price rigging
 of SOICL shares fails. It is also a matter of record that the assessee furnished all
 evidences in the form of bills, contract notes, demat statements and the bank accounts
 to prove the genuineness of the transactions relating to purchase and sale of shares
 resulting in LTCG. These evidences were neither found by the ld AO to be false or
 fabricated. The facts of the case and the evidences in support of the assessee's case
 clearly support the claim of the assessee that the transactions of the assessee were
 bona fide and genuine and therefore the ld AO was not justified in rejecting the
 assessee's claim of exemption under section 10(38) of the Act. We also find that the ld
 CITA rightly relied on the decision of the Hon'ble High Court at Calcutta in the case
 of ALPINE INVESTMENTS in ITA No. 620 of 2008 dated 26th August 2008 wherein
 the Hon'ble Court held as follows: 9.4. We also find that the various other case laws of Hon'ble Jurisdictional High
 Court and other case laws also relied upon by the ld AR and findings given thereon
 would apply to the facts of the instant case. The ld DR was not able to furnish any
 contrary cases to this effect. Hence we hold that the ld AO was not justified in
 assessing the sale proceeds of shares of SOICL as undisclosed income of the assessee
 u/s 68 of the Act and therefore we uphold the order of the ld CITA and dismiss the
 appeal of the revenue. Accordingly the grounds raised by the revenue are dismissed." Applying the proposition of law laid down in all the above referred cases, the facts of this
 case, I find force in the submission of the assessee and there are backed by evidence. I also
 find that the revenue has not based its finding on in any evidence. In view of the above
 discussion the addition made u/s 68 of the Act is hereby deleted." 6. Learned Departmental Representative vehemently contends at this stage that the DIT(Inv)
 has carried out a detailed investigation in various entry operators cases. They have been found
 to have rigged such kind scrip's prices rise. There is not even a single material during the
 course of hearing which could suggest the assessee to have engaged in any kind of foul play.
 This tribunal's another co-ordinate bench decision in ITA No.2281/Kol/2017 Navneet
 Agarwal vs. ITO decided on 20.07.2018 has rejected Revenue's all these arguments as
 follows: Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 35 5. On 24.01.2013, the Hon'ble Bombay High Court approved the scheme of amalgamation
 of "Smart Champs IT and Infra Ltd." with "Cressanda Solutions Ltd." In accordance with
 the said scheme of amalgamation, the assessee was allotted 50000 equity shares of "M/s.
 Cressanda Solutions Ltd." The demat shares are reflected in the transaction statement of
 the period from 1st November 2011 to 31st December, 2013 (A copy of the scheme of
 amalgamation alongwith copy of order of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court and a copy of
 the letter to this effect submitted by "Cressanda Solutions Ltd". to Bombay Stock
 Exchange is placed in the Paper Book at page no 22 to 43.) 6. The assessee sold 50000 shares costing Rs. 500000/- through her broker "SKP Stock
 Broking Pvt. Ltd" which was a SEBI registered broker and earned a Long Term Capital
 Gain of Rs. 2,18,13,072/-. (Copy of the bank statement, brokers contract note together
 with the delivery instructions given to the DP and broker's confirmation is also placed in
 the paper book at page no 44 to 65). 7. Copy of Form No. 10DB issued by the broker, in support of charging of S.T.T. in respect
 of the transactions appearing in the ledger is placed in the paper book at page no. 66. 8. The holding period of the said scrip is more than one year (above 500 days) through in
 order to get the benefit of claim of Long Term Capital Gain the holding period is required
 to be 365 days. 12.The assessing officer as well as the Ld. CIT(A) have rejected these evidences filed by the
 assessee by referring to "Modus Operandi" of persons for earning long term capital gains
 which his exempt from income tax. All these observations are general in nature and are
 applied across the board to all the 60,000 or more assessees who fall in this category. Specific
 evidences produced by the assessee are not controverted by the revenue authorities. No
 evidence collected from third parties is confronted to the assesses. No opportunity of cross-
 examination of persons, on whose statements the revenue relies to make the addition, is
 provided to the assessee. The addition is made based on a report from the investigation wing. 13. The issue for consideration before us is whether, in such cases, the legal evidence
 produced by the assessee has to guide our decision in the matter or the general observations
 based on statements, probabilities, human behavior and discovery of the modus operandi
 adopted in earning alleged bogus LTCG and STCG, that have surfaced during investigations
 should guide the authorities in arriving at a conclusion as to whether the claim in genuine or
 not. An alleged scam might have taken place on LTCG etc. But it has to be established in
 each case, by the party alleging so, that this assessee in question was part of this scam. The
 chain of events and the live link of the assessee's action giving her involvement in the scam
 should be established. The allegation imply that cash was paid by the assessee and in return
 the assessee received LTCG, which is income exempt from income tax, by way of cheque
 through Banking channels. This allegation that cash had changed hands, has to be proved with
 evidence, by the revenue. Evidence gathered by the Director Investigation's office by way of
 statements recorded etc. has to also be brought on recording each case, when such a
 statement, evidence etc. is relied upon by the revenue to make any additions. Opportunity of
 cross examination has to be provided to the assessee, if the AO relies on any statements or
 third party as evidence to make an addition. If any material or evidence is sought to be relied
 upon by the AO, he has to confront the assessee with such material. The claim of the assessee
 cannot be rejected based on mere conjectures unverified by evidence under the pretentious
 garb of preponderance of human probabilities and theory of human behavior by the
 department. 14. It is well settled that evidence collected from third parties cannot be used against an
 assessee unless this evidence is put before him and he is given an opportunity to controvert
 the evidence. In this case, the AO relies only on a report as the basis for the addition. The
 evidence based on which the DDIT report is prepared is not brought on record by the AO nor
 is it put before the assessee. The submission of the assessee that she is just an investor and as
 Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 36

 she received some tips and she chose to invest based on these market tips and had taken a
 calculated risk and had gained in the process and that she is not party to the scam etc., has to
 be controverted by the revenue with evidence. When a person claims that she has done these
 transactions in a bona fide and genuine manner and was benefitted, one cannot reject this
 submission based on surmises and conjectures. As the report of investigation wing suggests,
 there are more than 60,000 beneficiaries of LTCG. Each case has to be assessed based on
 legal principles of legal import laid down by the Courts of law. 15. In our view, just the modus operandi, generalisation, preponderance of human
 probabilities cannot be the only basis for rejecting the claim of the assessee. Unless specific
 evidence is brought on record to controvert the validity and correctness of the documentary
 evidences produced, the same cannot be rejected by the assessee. The Hon'ble Supreme Court
 in the case of Omar Salav Mohamed Sait reported in (1959) 37 ITR 151 (SC) had held that no
 addition can be made on the basis of surmises, suspicion and conjectures. In the case of CIT(Central), Kolkata vs. Daulat Ram Rawatmull reported in 87 ITR 349, the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court held that, the onus to prove that the apparent is not the real is on the party who
 claims it to be so. The burden of proving a transaction to be bogus has to be strictly
 discharged by adducing legal evidences, which would directly prove the fact of bogusness or
 establish circumstance unerringly and reasonably raising an interference to that effect. The
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Umacharan Shah & Bros. Vs. CIT 37 ITR 271 held that
 suspicion however strong, cannot take the place of evidence. In this connection we refer to the
 general view on the topic of conveyance of immovable properties. The rates/sale price are at
 variance with the circle rates fixed by the Registration authorities of the Government in most
 cases and the general impression is that cash would have changed hands. The courts have laid
 down that judicial notice of such notorious facts cannot be taken based on generalisations.
 Courts of law are bound to go by evidence. 16. We find that the assessing officer as well as the Ld. CIT(A) has been guided by the report
 of the investigation wing prepared with respect to bogus capital gains transactions. However,
 we do not find that the assessing officer as well as the Ld. CIT(A), have brought out any part
 of the investigation wing report in which the assessee has been investigated and /or found to
 be a part of any arrangement for the purpose of generating bogus long term capital gains.
 Nothing has been brought on record to show that the persons investigated, including entry
 operators or stock brokers, have named that the assessee was in collusion with them. In
 absence of such finding how is it possible to link their wrong doings with the assessee. In fact,
 the investigation wing is a separate department which has not been assigned assessment work
 and has been delegated the work of only making investigation. The Act has vested widest
 powers on this wing. It is the duty of the investigation wing to conduct proper and detailed
 inquiry in any matter where there is allegation of tax evasion and after making proper inquiry
 and collecting proper evidences the matter should be sent to the assessment wing to assess the
 income as per law. We find no such action executed by investigation wing against the
 assessee. In absence of any finding specifically against the assessee in the investigation wing
 report, the assessee cannot be held to be guilty or linked to the wrong acts of the persons
 investigated. In this case, in our view, the Assessing Officer at best could have considered the
 investigation report as a starting point of investigation. The report only informed the assessing
 officer that some persons may have misused the script for the purpose of collusive
 transaction. The Assessing Officer was duty bound to make inquiry from all concerned parties
 relating to the transaction and then to collect evidences that the transaction entered into by the
 assessee was also a collusive transaction. We, however, find that the Assessing Officer has
 not brought on record any evidence to prove that the transactions entered by the assessee
 which are otherwise supported by proper third party documents are collusive transactions. 17. The Hon'ble Supreme Court way back in the case of Lalchand Bhagat Ambica Ram vs.
 CIT [1959] 37 ITR 288 (SC) held that assessment could not be based on background of
 suspicion and in absence of any evidence to support the same. The Hon'ble Court held: 18. We now consider the various propositions of law laid down by the Courts of law. That
 cross-examination is one part of the principles of natural justice has been laid down in the
 following judgments: b) Andaman Timber Industries vs. Commissioner of C. Ex., Kolkata-II wherein it was held
 that: 19. On similar facts where the revenue has alleged that the assessee has declared bogus
 LTCG, it was held as follows: b) The JAIPURITAT in the case of VIVEKAGARWAL[ITA No.292/JP/2017]order
 dated 06.04.2018 held as under vide Page 9 Para 3: c) The Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of PREMPAL
 GANDHI[ITA-95-2017(O&M)] dated18.01.2018 at vide Page 3 Para 4 held as
 under: The Court also held the following vide Page 3 Para 5 the following: d) The BENCH "D"OF KOLKATAITAT in the case of GAUTAM PINCHA [ITA
 No.569/Kol/2017]order dated 15.11.2017 held as under vide Page 12 Para 8.1: Further in Page 15 Para 8.5 of the judgment, it held: e) The BENCH "D" OF KOLKATA ITAT in the case of KIRAN KOTHARI HUF [ITA No.
 443/Kol/2017] order dated 15.11.2017 held vide Para 9.3 held as under: f) The BENCH "A"OF KOLKATAITAT in the case of SHALEENKHEMANI [ITA
 No.1945/Kol/2014]order dated 18.10.2017 held as under vide Page 24 Para 9.3: g) The BENCH "H" OF MUMBAI ITAT in the case of ARVINDKUMAR JAINHUF [ITA
 No.4682/Mum/2014] order dated 18.09.2017 held as under vide Page 6 Para 8: h)The Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of VIVEK MEHTA [ITA No. 894
 OF2010] order dated 14.11.2011 vide Page 2 Para 3 held as under: i) The Hon'ble Jurisdictional Calcutta High Court in the case of CIT vs. Bhagwati Prasad
 Agarwal in I.T.A. No. 22/Kol/2009 dated 29.04.2009 at para 2 held as follows: Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 43 j) The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of PCIT vs. Teju Rohit kumar Kapadia order dated
 04.05.2018 upheld the following proposition of law laid down by the Hon'ble Gujarat High
 Court as under: 20. Applying the proposition of law as laid down in the above-mentioned judgments
 to the facts of this case we are bound to consider and rely on the evidence produced
 by the assessee in support of its claim and base our decision on such evidence and
 not on suspicion or preponderance of probabilities. No material was brought on
 record by the AO to controvert the evidence furnished by the assessee. Under these
 circumstances, we accept the evidence filed by the assessee and allow the claim that
 the income in question is a bona fide Long Term Capital Gain arising from the sale
 of shares and hence exempt from income tax. 21. Under the circumstances and in view of the above discussion, we uphold the
 contentions of the assessee and delete the addition in question." 7. We adopt all this reasoning mutatis mutandis to conclude in this
 factual backdrop that both the lower authorities have erred in treating
 assessee's LTCG to be bogus. The impugned addition(s) of ₹93,19,895/-
 and ₹4,65,995/1- are deleted." 5. Coming to Revenue's arguments that department had searched / surveyed
 various entry operators alleged to have engaged in giving bogus LTCG
 regarding very scrip, I put a specific question to Mr. Bhattacherjee as to
 whether any of the said entry operators had ever quoted assessee's name or
 not. The replies is received in negative. Coupled with this, there is no substance
 in Revenue's argument that similar addition(s) stand affirmed in various
 judicial precedents (supra) for the reason that sec. 68 addition is a factual
 issue requiring the taxpayer to prove the identity, genuineness and
 creditworthiness of the relevant sum credited. I make it clear that all these
 assessees have placed sufficient materials on record indicating them to have
 derived the impugned LTCG form sale of shares held in M/s Unno Industries
 Ltd. only. I therefore delete the impugned addition(s) respectively. Brokerage
 commission disallowance, if any, thereupon shall automatic stood as a
 necessary corollary." 5. Coupled with this, I find that hon'ble jurisdictional high court's various
decisions in PCIT vs Bib Cables and Conductors ITAT No. 78 of 2017, GA
No.747/2017 decided on 19.06.2018, M/s Classic Growers vs. CIT ITA No.
129/2012, CIT vs. Lakshmangarh Estate and Trading Co. Ltd. (2013) 40 taxmann. Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 44

Commission 439 (Cal), CIT vs. Shreyashi Ganguli (ITA No. 196 of 2012 & CIT vs.
Reengla Properties ITA 105 of 2016 (supra) , have already declined Revenue's very
stand doubting genuineness of share purchased / sales transactions resulting in LTCG
and losses based as mere suspicious circumstances in absence of any evidence. 6. Mr. Singh at this stage has taken a lot of pains for filing the following written
statement:- 7. Coming to brokers statement recorded in presence of the assessee ( Pradeep
Kumar Pansari HUF vs. ITO Ward-48 (1) in ITA No.1649/Kol/2018 for AY 2014-15,
I find that the said broker nowhere supported the Revenue's case alleging any cash
component in the relevant transactions. So is the outcome of Revenue's latter appeals
alleging assessees' concession in ITA No.1629, 1630 & 1639/Kol/2018 as the
Assessing Officer took recourse to a detailed adjudication in support of the impugned
addition(s). This tribunal's co-ordinate bench's decision in ( 2017) 60 ITR (Trib) 1
(Bang) Canara Bank vs. JCIT holds that the estopple principle does not apply in
income tax proceedings. I therefore reject Revenue's arguments in support of
impugned addition(s). I take into account all the relevant facts and circumstances to
adopt the learned co-ordinate bench's detailed reasoning extracted in preceding
 Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 46

paragraphs mutatis mutandis to delete the impugned addition(s) forming subject-
matter of all the instant appeal(s). Commission expenditure disallowance; if any, shall
automatically follow suit as a necessary corollary. No other argument has been raised
before me during the course of hearing. 8. All these appeals are allowed in above terms. A copy of the instant common
order be placed in the respective case file(s). 1. आवेदक/Assessee-Aditya Saraf(HUF), CF-265, Salt Lake City, Sector-I, Kolkata-91/
 Rinki Agarwal, Flat No. 503, Ganga Apartment, Mangal Pandey
 Road, Siliguri, Darjeeling-734405/Rekha Agarwal, Central Plaza,
 Room No.5M, 5th Floor, 41, B.B.Ganguly Street, Kolkata-12/M/s
 M.P. Kedia HUF,29, R.N.Mukherjee Road, Windsor House, 2nd
 Floor, Room No.15, Kolkata-001/M/s Shrawan Kr. Agrawal HUF
 Level-3, Central Plaza, C-11, 41, B.B Ganguly Street, Kolkata-12/
 P.K. Agarwal(HUF), Block-3, Flat 6C, Avani Oxford, 136, Jessore
 Road, Lake Town-Kolkata-55/ Smt. Uma Jaria, H.No.2482, Sri Sri
 Kutir, Sector-79, Mohali-160055/Jaya Madhogaria, Vivek
 Madhogaria, Sandeep Madhogharia (HUF) C/o S.L. Kochar,
 Advocate, 5, Ashutosh Chowdhury, Avenue, Kolkat-19/Surendra
 Sharma "Vikram Vihar", Bunglow No.29/30, 3rd Fl, 493/B/61,
 G.T. Road, (South) Howrah-711102/Samir Baid, 3-B, Lal Bazar
 Street, 5th Floor, Kolkata-001/Smt. Payal Saraf, CF-265, Salt Lake
 City, Secdtoro-1, Kolkat-91/Smt. Rekha Patwari, 3rd Fl, R. No.190
 Metal Market, 157, Neteaji Subhas Road, Burrabazar, Kolkata-001/
 Shankar Lal Daruka (HUF), Sima Daruka 8, Peary Mohan
 Mukherjee Street, Bdelurmath, Howrah-711202/Effervescent
 Commercial Pvt. Ltd. C/o RSVPC & Co. 41A, A.J.C. Bose Rd. Suite No.613, 6th Fl. Kolkata-17/Shri Vineek Kanodia, Shri Vishal
 Kanodia, 2nd Fl, BD-76, Salt Lake, Kolkata-91/Shri Dilip Singha
 Roy, Smt. Sikha Singha Roy, Deepshikha, Khanro Sultanpur More,
 P.O. Memari, Burdwan-713146/Aloke Jain & Sunil Kr. Rander C/o
 Advocate Pradip Lakhotia, 2nd Fl, Metro Plaza, SF Rd., Siliguri-734005/
 Sri Vikash Goel, C/o S.C Baid & Ors. 4, Raja Woodmunt St. 2nd Fl. Kol-001/
 Ritu Gupta & Rashmi Gupta, C/o Subash Agarwal & Associates, Siddha
 Gibson Lane, Suite-213, 2nd Floor, Kolkata-69/Pradeep Kr. Pansari HUF,
 Sri Ganga Apartment, 23, Guha Park, 3rd Floor, Liluah, Howrah-711204/
 Dilip Kr. Agarwal, C/o Raj Singhania, Cental Plaza, 41, B.B.Ganguly St.
 Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 47

 5th Floor, Bowbazar, Kolkata-12/Om Prakash Soni, 29B, Ballygunge
 Circular Road, Kolakta-19/Smt. Neelam Jhunjhunwala-Smt Nita
 Jhunjhunwala 203, 204 Block No C/3 2nd Fl. Flower Valley, 493,
 G.T. Road, (South), Shbpur, Howrah-711102/Shree Niwas Lahoti/L/h
 Mohan Lal Lahoti 171, Ramkrishna Lane, Shibpur Op. Pally Math,
 Howrah-711102/Sunil Kr. Harbhajanka, L/h Lt Smt. Raj Kumari
 Harbhajanka, 260 Upendra Ch. Banerjee Rd, 4th Fl, Kolkata/Smt. Santosh
 Mundra, 5-B, Judges Court Road, Alipore, 6th Floor, Kolkata-27/Rohit
 Patwari, 3rd Fl, R.No.190, 157, N.S. Road, Kolkata-001/Mukesh Saraogi
 (HUF) 10, Clive Row, 6th Fl, R.No.IR, Rampuria Chamber, Kolkatka-001/
 Premier Tie-Up Pvt. Ltd. 30/1, S.M. Ali Rd. Barrackpore, Kolkataa-120/
 Narottamka Trading & Finvest Pvt. Ltd. 21, Bipin Behari Ganguli St. 2nd
 Floor, Kolkata-12/Dilip Kr. Sancheti/ C/o Advocate Pradip Lakhotia, 2nd
 Floor, Metro Plaza, SF Road, Siliguri-734005 2. राज%व /Revenue-ITO Wd-50(3), Uttarapan Complex, Maniktola Civic Centre,
 Ultadanga, Kolkata-54/ITO Ward-36(1)/ITO Wd-35(4)/ITO Wd
 36(3)/35(1) Ayakar Bhawan, (Poorva)110, Shantipally, Kol-107/
 ITO Wd-48(4), 3, Govt. Place, Kolakta-700001/ITO Wd-47(4)/
 ITO Wd-48(4), 3, Govt. Place, Kolakta-001/ITO Wd-36(3)/ ITO
 Wd-36(1)Poorva, 8th Floor, Shantipally, Kolkat-107/ITO
 Wd-50(3), Uttarapan Complex, Maniktola Civic Centre, Ultadanga
 Kolkata-54/ ITO Wd-48(4)/ITO Wd-46(4), 3, Govt. Place (West)
 Kolkat-001/ITO Wd-1(1), P-7 Chowringhee Sq. Kolkata-69/ITO
 Wd-64(4), Aayakar Bhawan, 169, A.J.C. Bose Road, Bamboo
 Villa, Kolkata/ITO Wd-2(3), Aaykar Bhawan, Court Compound,
 Burdwan-713101/ITO Wd-1(1) & 2-(2), Paribahan Nagar, Matigara
 Siliguri/ITO Wd-63(4), Aayakar Bhawan, Poorva, 110, Shantipally
 Kolkata-107/ITO Wd-47(1)/ ITO Wd-34(3)/ITO Wd-48(1)/ITO Wd-48(1)
 ITO Wd-34(3) 3, Govt. Place, Kolkata-001/ITO Wd-35(1), Aayakar Bhawan
 Poorva, 110, Shantipally, Kolkata-107/ITO 47(2)-ITO Wd-47(3), 3, Govt.
 Place (West), Kolkat-001/ITO Wd-36(1)/ITO Wd-35(4), Aayakar Bhawan
 110, Shantipally, Kolkata-107/ITO Ward-63(1), Poorva, 8th Fl. Aayakar
 Bhawan, AJC Bose Road, Bamboovilla, Kolkata-14/ITO Wd-1(2), P-7,
 Chowringhee Sq. 4th Floor, Kolkata-69/ITO Wd-1(3), Paribahan Nagar,
 Matigara, Siliguri 3. संबं&धत आयकर आयु(त / Concerned CIT 4. आयकर आयु(त- अपील / CIT (A) 5. )वभागीय ,त,न&ध, आयकर अपील य अ&धकरण कोलकाता / DR, ITAT, Kolkata 6. गाड. फाइल / Guard file. By order/आदे श से,
 /True Copy/
 उप/सहायक पंजीकार
 आयकर अपील य अ&धकरण,
 कोलकाता । Assessment Year(s) 2014-15 2015-16, 2013-14 & 2009-10 Page 48