% 11.08.2025 1. This hearing has been done through hybrid mode. 2. All these three petitions raise a common issue in respect of the powers
 of arrest exercised by officers of the GST Department under Sections 69 and 70 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (hereinafter " CGST Act "). This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/08/2025 at 22:21:19 3. In these writ petitions, allegations of tax evasion were raised against the
 Petitioners and investigations/searches were conducted by the CGST
 Department. In the said process, the Petitioners were even arrested but were
 granted bail by the concerned Courts. 4. The prayer in these writ petitions is for declaration, inter alia, that Sections 69 , 70 and 132 of the CGST Act are beyond the legislative competence
 of the Parliament and the same are ultra vires the Constitution of India. In one
 of the writ petitions compensation has also been sought. The prayers in these
 petitions are as under: W.P.(CRL) 2020/2020
 i. Issue an appropriate Writ, order(s) or direction(s)
 declaring Sections 69 & 132 of the Central Goods
 Service Tax Act, 2017, as unconstitutional and ultra
 vires to Article 21 of the Constitution of India and
 hence unconstitutional, illegal and unenforceable;
 ii. Issue an appropriate Writ, order(s) or direction(s) to
 the Respondent to comply with the mandatory procedure
 under Chapter XII of the Code of Criminal Procedure ,
 1973 including Section 154 , 157 , 167 , 172 etc for valid
 commencement of investigation into any offence qua the
 petitioner. iii. Declare the entire investigations erroneously
 commenced by the Respondents qua the Petitioner as
 non est, illegal, void ab initio for not following the
 mandatory procedure under Chapter XII of the of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 and therefore
 violative of the "procedure established by law".
 iv. Issue an appropriate Writ, order(s) or direction(s) W.P.(C) 5454/2020 & connected matters Page 2 of 13 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/08/2025 at 22:21:19
 declaring Section 70(1) of the Central Goods Service
 Tax Act, 2017, as unconstitutional and ultra vires to Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India and hence
 unconstitutional, illegal and unenforceable;
 v. Issue an appropriate Writ, order(s) or direction(s)
 declaring Section 67 (1) and S. 69 of the CGST Act are
 ultra vires and violative of the principles of nature
 justice, as the said Section does not provide for
 recording of reasons to believe in writing, unlike other
 statutes such as Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 vi. Issue an appropriate Writ, order(s) or direction(s)
 declaring Notification No. 14/2017 dated 1st July, 2017
 issued by the Government of India, Ministry of Finance
 investing the powers of Commissioner to Additional
 Director General, GST Intelligence as contrary to the
 settled principle of law as held by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in Ajaib Singh Vs. State of Punjab , AIR 1965 SC
 1619. vii. Issue an appropriate Writ, order(s) or direction(s)
 declaring Provisions of Section 137 of the CGST Act
 2017 contrary to the settled principles of law, which
 provide that there can be no fastening of vicarious
 liability for a criminal offence requiring mens rea,
 without there being an active role being proved by the
 prosecution. viii. Issue an appropriate Writ, order(s) or direction(s)
 declaring provisions of Section 135 of CGST Act, 2017,
 unconstitutional as it requires Accused to disprove the
 reverse burden of proof not by preponderance of
 probability but beyond reasonable doubt.
 ix. Issue an appropriate Writ, order(s) or direction(s)
 declaring provisions of Section 136 of the CGST Act
 2017 unconstitutional as it is contrary to section 32 & 33 of the Indian Evidence Act and is ultra vires as it is
 against the basic principle of law that no person shall
 be condemned on ex-parte evidence. x. Any other relief as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit W.P.(C) 5454/2020 & connected matters Page 3 of 13 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/08/2025 at 22:21:19
 and proper in view of the facts and circumstances of the
 present case. W.P.(CRL) 2064/2020
 A. Issue a writ, order or direction to set aside and
 declare the entire investigation of the Respondent No 2
 & 3 qua the Petitioner as non est, illegal, without
 jurisdiction and void ab initio and further as not in
 compliance with the mandatory requirements of
 Chapter XII of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973
 B. Issue a writ, order or direction to Respondent No.2 &
 3 to accept the payment of Rs. 1,00,00,000 made by
 Petitioner as under protest and to adjust the amount
 paid towards any liability incurred by the Petitioner
 after following due process of law
 C. Issue a writ, order or direction that any alleged
 undertaking signed by the Petitioner including to
 deposit Rs. 8,28,00,000/- (Rupees Eight Crore Twenty-
 Eight Lakhs Only) i.e. the input credit towards
 purchases and sales made in financial year 2018-2019
 in installments was under involuntary, made under
 coercion, and therefore non est, illegal and
 unenforceable
 D. Issue a write, order or direction that the Respondent
 No.2 and 3 conduct the investigation in accordance with
 the procedure established by law and restrain from
 insisting on compliance of the coerced undertaking
 signed by the Petitioner
 E. Issue an appropriate Writ, order(s) or direction(s) till
 the show cause notice is issued a fair opportunity is
 accorded to the Petitioner to present his side of version
 i.e., "Audi Alteram Partem" which is a settled
 proposition of law and following the law of natural
 justice, no coercive action be taken against the
 Petitioner; F. Pass any such other order(s) or direction(s) as this
 Hon'ble Court may deem fit in the facts and
 circumstances of the present case." This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/08/2025 at 22:21:19 5. The issue relating to the legislative competence and validity of Sections
 69 and 70 of the GST Act, has now been squarely decided by the Supreme
 Court in the case of Radhika Agarwal v. Union of India & Ors. , 2025 INSC
 272 wherein the powers of the CGST officials to summon as also to seize
 documents, seek production of documents, and arrest persons who may be
 suspected of evading tax, has been discussed in detail. The Supreme Court has
 also stipulated the safeguards qua arrest under the CGST Act in reference to Section 132 of the said Act. The relevant observations of the Supreme Court
 are as under: Accordingly, we are in agreement with the findings
 recorded in this decision to the extent that the power of
 arrest should be used with great circumspection and
 not casually. Further, as in the case of service tax, the
 power of arrest is not to be used on mere suspicion or
 doubt, or for even investigation, when the conditions
 of subsection (5) to Section 132 of the GST Acts are
 not satisfied. [...] 62. The circular also refers to the procedure of
 arrest and that the Principal
 Commissioner/Commissioner has to record on the file,
 after considering the nature of the offence, the role of
 the person involved, the evidence available and that he
 has reason to believe that the person has committed an
 offence as mentioned in Section 132 of the GST Act. The
 provisions of the Code, read with Section 69(3) of the
 GST Acts, relating to arrest and procedure thereof, must W.P.(C) 5454/2020 & connected matters Page 6 of 13 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/08/2025 at 22:21:19
 be adhered to. Compliance must also be made with the
 directions in D.K. Basu (supra). The format of arrest, as
 prescribed by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and
 Customs in Circular No. 128/47/2019-GST dated
 23.12.2019, has also been referred to in this Instruction.
 Therefore, the arrest memo should indicate the relevant
 section(s) of the GST Act and other laws. In addition,
 the grounds of arrest must be explained to the arrested
 person and noted in the arrest memo. This instruction
 regarding the grounds of arrest came to be amended by
 the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs
 (GSTInvestigation Wing) vide Instruction No. 01/2025-
 GST dated 13.01.2025 (GST/INV/Instructions/21-22).
 The circular dated 13.01.2025 now mandates that the
 grounds of arrest must be explained to the arrested
 person and also be furnished to him in writing as an
 Annexure to the arrest memo. The acknowledgement of
 the same should be taken from the arrested person at the
 time of service of the arrest memo. Instruction 02/2022-
 23 GST (Investigation) dated 17.08.2022 further lays
 down that a person nominated or authorised by the
 arrested person should be informed immediately, and
 this fact must be recorded in the arrest memo. The date
 and time of the arrest should also be mentioned in the
 arrest memo. Lastly, a copy of the arrest memo should
 be given to the person arrested under proper
 acknowledgement. The circular also makes other
 directions concerning medical examination, the duty to
 take reasonable care of the health and safety of the
 arrested person, and the procedure of arresting a
 woman, etc. It also lays down the post-arrest formalities
 which have to be complied with. It further states that
 efforts should be made to file a prosecution complaint
 under Section 132 of the GST Acts at the earliest and
 preferably within 60 days of arrest, where no bail is
 granted. Even otherwise, the complaint should be filed
 within a definite time frame. A report of arrests made
 must be maintained and submitted as provided in W.P.(C) 5454/2020 & connected matters Page 7 of 13 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/08/2025 at 22:21:19
 paragraph 6.1 of the Instruction. The aforesaid
 directions in the Circular/instruction should be read
 along with the specific directions outlined in the earlier
 judgments of this Court and the present judgment. [...] 72. The last issue for our determination concerns the
 constitutional validity of Sections 69 and 70 of the GST
 Acts which provide for the power to arrest and the
 power to summon. The petitioners assail the vires of
 these provisions on the grounds of legislative
 competence. It is submitted that Article 246-A of the
 Constitution while conferring legislative powers on
 Parliament and State Legislatures to levy and collect
 GST, does not explicitly authorize the violations thereof
 to be made criminal offences. Our attention was drawn
 to Lists I and II of the Seventh Schedule to the
 Constitution which demarcate the legislative fields for
 the Union and the States to enact laws and make
 violations of the enactments as offences. Referring to
 Entry 93 of List I to the Seventh Schedule, it is submitted
 that the Parliament can enact criminal provisions only
 for the matters in List I. It is further submitted that the
 power to summon, arrest and prosecute are not
 ancillary and incidental to the power of levying GST and
 therefore, are beyond the legislative competence of the
 Parliament under Article 246-A of the Constitution. 73. This argument, in our opinion, must be rejected. Article 246-A of the Constitution is a special provision
 defining the source of power and the field of legislation
 for the Parliament and the State Legislature with
 respect to GST: 74. This Court in Union of India and Others v. VKC
 Footsteps (India) Private Ltd. , 57 took note of the
 change brought about by Article 246-A of the
 Constitution and observed: (...)" 75. The Parliament, under Article 246-A of the
 Constitution, has the power to make laws regarding
 GST and, as a necessary corollary, enact provisions
 against tax evasion. Article 246-A of the Constitution is
 a comprehensive provision and the doctrine of pith and
 substance applies. The impugned provisions lay down
 the power to summon and arrest, powers necessary for W.P.(C) 5454/2020 & connected matters Page 9 of 13 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/08/2025 at 22:21:19
 the effective levy and collection of GST. Time and again
 this Court has held that while deciding the issue of
 legislative competence, entries should not be read in a
 narrow or pedantic sense but given their broadest
 meaning and the widest amplitude because they are
 intrinsic to a machinery of government. The ambit of an
 entry or article laying down the legislative field extends
 to all ancillary and subsidiary matters which fairly and
 reasonably can be said to be comprehended in it. This
 settled dictum regarding the interpretation of legislative
 entries equally applies to the special provision of Article
 246-A of the Constitution. In the context of the
 legislative power to levy and collect tax, a Constitution
 Bench of Seven Judges in R.S. Joshi, Sales Tax Officer,
 Gujarat and Others v. Ajit Mills Limited and Another ,
 60 held: Thus, a penalty or prosecution mechanism for the levy
 and collection of GST, and for checking its evasion, is
 a permissible exercise of legislative power. The GST
 Acts, in pith and substance, pertain to Article 246-A of
 the Constitution and the powers to summon, arrest and W.P.(C) 5454/2020 & connected matters Page 10 of 13 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/08/2025 at 22:21:19
 prosecute are ancillary and incidental to the power to
 levy and collect goods and services tax. In view of the
 aforesaid, the vires challenge to Sections 69 and 70 of
 the GST Acts must fail and is accordingly rejected. 76. In some of the cases, Section 135 of the GST Acts
 which relates to culpable mental intent has been
 challenged. We are not examining the said aspect as
 prosecution has not been initiated in any of these cases.
 If any person is aggrieved and is advised to challenge
 the said Section, he/she may do so before the High
 Court. 77. In view of the aforesaid discussion the challenge to
 the constitutional validity as also the right of the
 authorised officers under the Customs Act and the
 GST Acts to arrest are rejected and dismissed with
 elucidation and clarification on the pre-conditions and
 when and how the power of arrest is to be exercised." 6. Thus, the Supreme Court speaking through Hon'ble Justice Sanjiv
 Khanna and Hon'ble Justice M. Sundresh has clearly held that the Parliament
 has the legislative competence to enact the provisions under Section 69 and 70 of the CGST Act. 7. It would also be relevant to note that in a concurring judgment by
 Hon'ble Ms. Justice Bela M. Trivedi, it has also been observed as under: 8. In view of the above judgment of the Supreme Court, the challenges
 raised in present petitions no longer require adjudication. None of the other
 reliefs sought in these writ petitions are pressed. Accordingly, these writ
 petitions are disposed of in the above terms. All pending applications, if any,
 are also disposed of. PRATHIBA M. SINGH, J. SHAIL JAIN, J. AUGUST 11, 2025
 Rahul/msh W.P.(C) 5454/2020 & connected matters Page 13 of 13 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/08/2025 at 22:21:19