Brief facts of the prosecution case:- Necessary videography of the illegal tapping and connected load was done
 by videographer Sh. Satendra. Illegal wire was removed and seized at the
 spot. Following the guidelines of DERC, the complainant company
 assessed the demand to the tune of Rs.3,12,204/-. Accordingly, a theft bill
 was raised and sent to the accused but accused did not make payment of
 the theft bill. The CD of the said videography alongwith Certificate U/s
 65B of the Evidence Act was also submitted to the SHO, PS Jafrabad
 alongwith complaint. Thus, a prayer was made for registration of an FIR
 against the accused persons U/s 135/150 of the Act. 3. The SHO, PS Jafrabad handed over the said complaint
 (Ex.PW1/7) to HC Sushil for necessary action. Thereafter, HC Sushil
 made endorsement on the complaint and handed over the complaint to
 Duty Officer for registration of an FIR. Accordingly, the Duty Officer

FIR No.626/2019 State vs Mohd. Farooq 2 of 16
 registered the FIR No.626/2019 and handed over the investigation of the
 case to HC Sushil, the IO of the case. After registration of FIR, IO visited
 the inspected premises, prepared site plan, served the accused Mohd.
 Farooq with the notice U/s 41(A) Cr.P.C , interrogated the accused and
 prepared interrogation report. During investigation, it was revealed that the
 inspected premises belongs to accused Mohd. Farooq and accused Tasleem
 was his tenant in the inspected premises and said Tasleem has vacated the
 premises and went to an unknown place and his whereabouts are not
 known. IO also recorded the disclosure statement of the accused Mohd.
 Farooq and collected copy of his Aadhar Card as well as copies of
 documents pertaining to inspected premises. IO bound down the accused
 Mohd. Farooq vide Pabandinama. After completion of investigation, IO
 filed the charge-sheet U/s 135/150 of the Act against the accused Farooq. 4. On 02.04.2022, the notice for the commission of the offence U/s
 135 of the Act was given to the accused Mohd. Farooq to which he
 pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 5. In order to prove its case against the accused, the prosecution
 examined the following witnesses:- (5.4) PW4 HC Sushil Kumar is the IO of the case. This witness
 deposed that on 14.10.2019, the complaint (Ex.PW1/7) was marked to
 him. On 08.11.2019, he made endorsement Ex.PW4/1 on the said
 complaint and handed over the complaint to Duty Officer for registration
 of FIR. On the said complaint, FIR No.626/2019 was registered and
 investigation of the case was marked to him. The copy of FIR has been
 brought on record as Ex.PW4/2. PW4 further deposed that on 12.10.2020,

FIR No.626/2019 State vs Mohd. Farooq 5 of 16
 he visited the premises of accused and prepared site plan Ex.PW4/3. On
 06.01.2021, he served the accused Mohd. Farooq with the notice u/s
 41 .1(A) of the Cr.P.C /Ex.PW4/4. On the same day, accused Mohd. Farooq
 joined the investigation and he interrogated the accused and prepared
 interrogation report Ex.PW4/5. PW4 further deposed that he also recorded
 the disclosure statement of accused Ex.PW4/6. During interrogation,
 accused handed over copies of documents pertaining to the inspected
 premises and copy of his Aadhar Card and these documents have been
 brought on record as Mark A (colly). During investigation, it was revealed
 that Tasleem was tenant of accused Mohd. Farooq and he has already
 vacated the premises and he has gone to an unknown place and his
 whereabouts are not known. IO bound down the accused vide
 Pabandinama Ex.PW4/7. 6. After completion of prosecution evidence, statement of accused
 Mohd. Farooq was recorded U/s 313 Cr.P.C . Accused denied the factum of
 inspection of his premises on the aforesaid date and time but did not deny
 the fact that no electricity meter was available at the inspected premises.
 Accused did not deny the fact that said Tasleem was present at the time of
 inspection at the inspected premises. Accused also did not deny that the
 inspected premises belongs to him and Tasleem was his tenant at the
 relevant time. Accused denied rest of the allegations, however, he stated
 that he has already settled the matter and settlement amount has been paid
 and an NOC has also been issued. Accused did not to lead any evidence to
 his defence. 7. Final arguments have been heard from the Ld. Addl. PP as well

FIR No.626/2019 State vs Mohd. Farooq 6 of 16
 as Ld. Counsel for the accused. During the course of arguments, Ld. Addl.
 PP submitted that at the time of inspection, no electricity meter was
 available at the inspected premises. It is also submitted that inspected
 premises belongs to accused Mohd. Farooq and user/co-accused Tasleem
 was residing in the inspected premises as a tenant. Accused Tasleem was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity. It is further argued that the
 complainant company has proved its case against the accused beyond
 reasonable doubt through the testimonies of prosecution witnesses. 8. Ld. Defence Counsel submitted that accused is innocent and he
 has been been falsely implicated in the present case. Accused has not
 committed any theft of electricity. It is further submitted that matter has
 already been settled with the complainant company and settlement amount
 has already been paid and an NOC has already been issued by the
 complainant company. 9. Before proceeding further and before dealing with the factual
 aspects of the present case, it is deemed appropriate to firstly specify and
 discuss the relevant provisions of the Act which are required to be gone
 into for appropriate disposal of the case. The present case pertains to sections 135 / 150 of Electricity Act. The provisions of section 135 / 150 of
 the Electricity Act are reproduced as under:- 10. There is a presumption mentioned in the third proviso of Section
 135 (1) of the Electricity Act, 2003 which reads as follows:- 11. As per prosecution case, at the time of inspection, no electricity
 meter was available at the inspected premises and the user/accused
 Tasleem was found indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal
 wire. The inspected premises belongs to accused Mohd. Farooq and the
 user/co-accused Tasleem was residing there as a tenant. Thus, the onus
 was on the prosecution to prove these allegations against the accused
 persons beyond reasonable doubt. FIR No.626/2019 State vs Mohd. Farooq 9 of 16 12. PW1 Sh. S.M. Pareek (Manager), PW2 Sh. Satender Sharma
 (DET) and PW3 Sh. Satender are the material witnesses in this case. PW1
 and PW2 corroborated the allegations made in the complaint Ex.PW1/7
 and their testimony is in conformity with the documents namely inspection
 report Ex.PW1/2, load report Ex.PW1/3 and seizure memo Ex.PW1/4. 13. PW2 Sh. Satender Sharma (DET) corroborated the testimony of
 PW1 and deposed on the similar lines of testimony of PW1. PW2 also
 identified the user/tenant Tasleem featuring in the said video contained in
 the CD Ex.PW1/1. 14. PW3 Satender (Videographer) deposed that on 07.10.2019, at
 about 11.48 am, an inspection was conducted at the premises of the
 accused and during inspection, on the instructions of team leader Sh. S.M.
 Pareek, he did videography of inspection proceedings. During evidence,
 the CD was played and after seeing the video, he identified the video
 which was recorded by him at the time of inspection. 15. It is clear from the testimony of PW1 and PW2 that on
 07.10.2019, at about 11.48 am, an inspection was carried out at the
 premises of accused persons by the inspecting team members/officials of
 complainant company and at the time of inspection, no electricity meter
 was found installed there and this fact has not been disputed by the
 accused in the cross-examination of PW1 and PW2. It is further clear from
 the testimony of PW4 HC Sushil Kumar as well as statement U/s 313 Cr.P.C , that inspected premises belongs to accused Mohd. Farooq and
 user/tenant Tasleem (untraced) was residing there. PW1 and PW2 deposed

FIR No.626/2019 State vs Mohd. Farooq 10 of 16
 that at the time of inspection user/tenant Tasleem was present at the spot
 and accused has not disputed this fact in the cross-examination of these
 witnesses as well as in the statement U/s 313 Cr.P.C . PW1 and PW2 also
 deposed that the user/accused was indulged in direct theft of electricity
 through illegal wire and said illegal wire was removed by the lineman Sh.
 Shiv Kumar and these facts have not been disputed by the accused in the
 cross-examination of these witnesses. It is further clear from the testimony
 of prosecution witnesses as well as video contained in the CD Ex.PW1/1
 that the user/tenant Tasleem (untraced) was indulged in direct theft of
 electricity through illegal wire. Inspection proceedings were recorded by
 videographer and CD containing videography of the said inspection
 proceedings was brought on record as Ex.PW1/1. Perusal of cross-
 examination of PW1 and PW2 shows that though, the accused
 endevaoured to dispute the factum of inspection, preparation of inspection
 documents, seizure memo and videography of the inspection proceedings,
 however, he has not specifically disputed the factum of preparation of the
 relevant documents, the contents and authenticity of the inspection report
 and CD containing videography of the inspection proceedings. Accused
 has not specifically disputed the genuineness of assessment of load
 assessed by the complainant as mentioned in the load report (Ex.PW1/3).
 During evidence, PW1 and PW2 identified the video recorded by
 videographer/PW3 Sh. Satender. Accused has not disputed the identity of
 the inspected premises shown in the video contained in the CD
 (Ex.PW1/1). It is undisputed that no electricity meter was available there.
 Thus, inspection proceedings conducted at the time of inspection as well

FIR No.626/2019 State vs Mohd. Farooq 11 of 16
 as videography of inspection proceedings recorded by videographer/PW3
 Sh. Satender stand proved. 16. PW1 and PW2 have clearly deposed that user/accused was found
 indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wire. It is also clear
 from the statement of PW4 and statement of accused recorded U/s 313 Cr.P.C that inspected property belongs to accused Mohd. Farooq and user
 Tasleem was residing in the inspected premises as a tenant. PW1 and PW2
 have clearly deposed that at the time of inspection, user/tenant Tasleem
 was present and he was found indulged in direct theft of electricity through
 illegal wire and this fact has been well proved by the witnesses. Thus, in
 view of settled provision of section 150 of the Act, accused Mohd. Farooq
 being landlord of the inspected premises is liable for abetment of the
 offence as he let the user/accused Tasleem (untraced) commit direct theft
 of electricity through illegal wire. During evidence before the court, CD
 (Ex.PW1/1) containing video clip of inspection proceedings was played
 before the court which depicted the manner in which user/accused/tenant
 Tasleem (since could not be arrested) was indulged in direct theft of
 electricity through illegal wires. 17. As per testimony of PW4/IO and interrogation report Ex.PW4/5
 and disclosure statement Ex.PW4/6, the inspected premises belongs to
 accused Mohd. Farooq and user Tasleem was occupying the inspected
 premises. Thus, it was duty of accused Mohd. Farooq to ensure that no
 illegal activity is carried out at his premises. It is clear from the evidence
 of the prosecution witnesses that the user/tenant Tasleem was indulged in
 direct theft of electricity. It is not the case of the accused Mohd. Farooq

FIR No.626/2019 State vs Mohd. Farooq 12 of 16
 that he was not aware about the factum of direct theft of electricity being
 committed by the user/tenant. Rather, accused Mohd. Farooq has
 endeavoured to deny the factum of direct theft of electricity committed by
 the user/tenant Tasleem. Accused Mohd. Farooq has not specifically
 denied the fact that the user/tenant Tasleem was indulged in direct theft of
 electricity in the cross-examination of PW1 and PW2. Accused has stated
 that he has settled the matter qua the theft bill (Ex.PW1/6) with the
 complainant company and he has already paid the settlement amount and
 an NOC has also been issued. In case, accused Mohd. Farooq was unaware
 that user/tenant Tasleem has committed direct theft of electricity then he
 ought to have brought this fact to the notice of the complainant and he
 ought to have disassociated himself from the said illegal activity of the
 user/tenant Tasleem. However, it is clear that accused Mohd. Farooq did
 not take any action in this regard against the user/tenant and his aforesaid
 conduct speaks for itself that he was well aware of the illegal act of the
 user/tenant Tasleem. Thus, under these facts and circumstances, it can be
 very well said that once the accused Mohd. Farooq had come to know
 about the said illegal activity on the part of the user/tenant, he ought to
 have taken appropriate action against his tenant/accused Tasleem and he
 was also duty bound to inform the complainant about the same, however,
 he did not do the needful which shows that accused Mohd. Farooq was
 fully aware of the said illegal activity being committed by user/tenant. Thus, under these circumstances, it can be very well said that accused
 Mohd. Farooq has abetted the offence of direct theft of electricity and
 therefore, he is liable for the offence punishable U/s 135 r/w section 150 of

FIR No.626/2019 State vs Mohd. Farooq 13 of 16
 the Act. 18. In view of the statutory presumption mentioned in the third
 proviso of section 135 (1) of the Act, once the prosecution successfully
 establishes the charges against the accused regarding the theft of
 electricity, it is to be presumed that accused has committed theft of
 electricity unless accused brings some evidence on record to rebut the
 presumption. In view of the discussions made in the preceding paras, it is
 held that the prosecution has proved the charges that the user/tenant
 Tasleem (untraced) who was residing in the inspected premises, was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity, in connivance with accused Mohd.
 Farooq and therefore, in view of the third proviso of section 135 (1) of the
 Electricity Act 2003, it is to be presumed that user/tenant Tasleem was
 indulged in direct theft of electricity, in connivance with accused Mohd.
 Farooq, if accused Mohd. Farooq is unable to rebut the statutory
 presumption. 19. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case reported as '2001 (6) SCC
 16 titled as Hiten P. Dalal vs Bratindranath Banerjee ' has laid down
 the law related to the rebuttal of statutory presumption. Relevant portion
 of the para no.16 is reproduced as under:- 20. In view of the settled law, now it is to be seen if the accused has
 taken any defence to rebut the statutory presumption. Accused has simply

FIR No.626/2019 State vs Mohd. Farooq 14 of 16
 stated in his statement recorded U/s 313 Cr.P.C that he is innocent and he
 has been falsely implicated in this case. He stated that he has already
 settled the dispute and settlement amount has already been paid and an
 NOC has also been issued. Accused did not lead any defence evidence. If
 the accused Tasleem was not indulged in direct theft of electricity or that
 he was using the electricity through any legal means, then accused Mohd.
 Farooq was liable to rebut the statutory presumption by disproving the
 allegations made in the complaint. It is admitted position of fact that
 during relevant time, inspected premises belonged to accused Mohd.
 Farooq and he had given the inspected premises to user/tenant Tasleem on
 rent. It is clear from the evidence led by the prosecution that at the time of
 inspection, user/tenant Tasleem was indulged in direct theft of electricity
 through illegal wires. Accused has not brought any material on record or
 lead any evidence to disprove all these allegations. Thus, it is held that
 accused has failed to rebut the statutory presumption. In this regard, this
 court is supported by the judgment of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi
 reported as 'Mukesh Rastogi vs North Delhi Power Limited' 2007
 (99) DRJ108. The observations made by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi are
 reproduced as under:- 21. In view of aforesaid discussions, it is held that the prosecution
 has proved beyond reasonable doubt that user/tenant Tasleem (could not
 be traced) was indulged in direct theft of electricity through illegal wires.
 It is also proved on record that accused Mohd. Farooq was the landlord of
 the inspected premises and he had given the inspected premises to
 user/tenant Tasleem who was indulged in direct theft of electricity and
 accused Mohd. Farooq let the user/tenant Farhan commit direct theft of
 electricity. Thus, accused Mohd. Farooq is guilty of abetment of the
 offence of direct theft of electricity and accused Tasleem (since could not
 be traced out) being user is guilty of the offence U/s 135 of the Act.
 Accordingly Mohd. Farooq is convicted for the offence punishable U/s
 135 r/w section 150 of the Electricity Act 2003. File be taken up again
 as and when user/co-accused Tasleem is arrested.