The victim made a complaint to the police stating

 that she was in touch with accused no. 1-Raman Singh. He called

 her on 16.4.2019 at Café 69, Sector-7, Kurukshetra. Thereafter,

 he called her to various other places and he started proclaiming

 that he wanted to marry her. The petitioner and Raman came to

 Kangra on 16.2.2020. They took her to a hotel where accused no. Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 1 entered into sexual relations with the victim without her

 consent. The accused no. 2, the present petitioner, prepared the

 . obscene videos and took obscene photographs of the victim. The

 accused no. 1 started blackmailing the victim by saying that he

 would make the photographs and videos viral. He started calling

 the victim to his house. He maintained sexual relations with the

 of
 victim at Kurukshetra in different hotels and in the house of

 accused no. 2-present petitioner at Mohali and Manimajra. rt
 Accused No.1 also took money from the victim on the threat of

 making the video and photographs viral. On 2.9.2023, accused

 no.1 called the victim to the house of accused no.2 (the present

 petitioner) at Manimajra, where both of the accused maintained

 sexual relations with her by administering some intoxicant to

 her. The victim narrated the incident to her parents. The matter

 was reported to the police. The police registered zero FIR which

 was subsequently transferred to Police Station Kangra, where

 the present FIR was lodged. 2. The petitioner filed the present petition seeking bail. It has been asserted that the petitioner was never involved in the

 commission of any offence and he has no criminal antecedents. He has no relationship with the victim in any manner. He is the ::: Downloaded on - 22/12/2023 20:32:10 :::CIS 3 brother-in-law of the main accused Raman Singh. The victim

 had friendly relations with Raman Singh since 2019. The mother

 . of the main accused discovered that the victim had visited the

 house of Raman at Manimajra, to which she objected and told

 the victim that her (victim's) visit was against the moral values

 of her (mother of the accused no. 1's) family. She asked them to

 of
 get married. The petitioner was not present in the house of

 Raman Singh on 2.9.2023 and he was present at Kurukshetra. rt
 The parents of the victim threatened the mother of accused no. 2

 with dire consequences. The victim concocted a false story

 implicating the petitioner and the accused no. 1 by making false

 allegations of rape and preparing her obscene videos and taking

 her obscene pictures. The victim and her family members

 threatened the accused no. 1 on 11.102023 and snatched the

 electronic devices. They gave beatings to accused no. 1 and his

 mother. Accused no. 1 called the petitioner. The petitioner went

 to the workshop and contacted the accused No.1 and his mother. A complaint under Sections 107 and 151 of Cr.P.C. was registered

 at Police Station IT Park, Chandigarh. There was no mention of

 the sexual assault in this complaint. The accused no. 1 married

 on 15/16th October 2023. The victim lodged the zero FIR ::: Downloaded on - 22/12/2023 20:32:10 :::CIS 4 thereafter. The petitioner is the sole breadwinner of the family. The victim is aged 21 years. The prosecution story is false and no

 . case is made out against the petitioner. The FIR was lodged after

 the lapse of two years. No incriminating material is available

 with the petitioner. The petitioner would abide by the terms and

 conditions which may be imposed by the Court. Hence, it was

 of
 prayed that the present petition be allowed and the petitioner be

 released on bail. rt 3. A status report was filed reproducing the contents of

 the FIR. It was asserted that the statement of the victim was

 recorded in the Court of Learned ACJM, Kangra. The victim

 identified the room in the hotel and on verification of the record; the names of the victim and the accused were found in the

 register of the hotel. These entries were seized. The police

 arrested the main accused Raman Singh on 30.10.2023 and

 seized his laptop. The mobile phones of Raman Singh and the

 victim were sent to RFSL to retrieve the data contained therein. The call details of Raman Singh, petitioner and the victim have

 been obtained. The victim was found to be in touch with Raman

 Singh and the petitioner as per call details. The police searched

 for the present petitioner but could not apprehend him. The ::: Downloaded on - 22/12/2023 20:32:10 :::CIS 5 police have yet to recover the mobile phone and the laptop

 containing the obscene videos and photographs of the victim. . The custodial interrogation of the victim is required in the

 present case. Hence, it was prayed that the present petition be

 dismissed. 4. I have heard Mr. Yashveer Singh Rathore, learned

 of
 counsel for the petitioner and Mr. Jitender Sharma, learned
 rt
 Additional Advocate General for the respondent-State. 5. Mr. Yashveer Singh Rathore, learned counsel for the

 petitioner submitted that the contents of the FIR are false. No

 complaint was made for two years and even for one month and

 ten days after the incident dated 2.9.2023. The petitioner was

 not present at Manimajra and the receipts of the Toll Plaza

 (Annexure P-3) establish this fact. The victim is major and her

 silence for two years falsifies her version. A complaint was filed

 under Sections 107 and 151 of Cr.P.C. on 11.10.2023 and no

 complaint of sexual assault was made in it. Such a complaint

 was made for the first time on 13.10.2023, which shows that it is

 an afterthought and unreliable. He has relied upon the judgment

 of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Beerbal Prasad Rajoriya vs. State ::: Downloaded on - 22/12/2023 20:32:10 :::CIS 6 of Madhya Pradesh, MANU/SC/1105/2022 and the judgment of

 this Court in Criminal Appeal No. 217 of 2018, titled State of H.P. Vs.

 . Ved Prakash and others decided on 01.09.2023 in support of his

 submissions. 6. Mr. Jitender Sharma, learned Additional Advocate

 General for the respondent-State submitted that the petitioner

 of
 is involved in the commission of heinous offence. Specific
 rt
 allegations were made against the petitioner and recovery of the

 laptop and mobile phone is yet to be effected. Custodial

 interrogation of the petitioner is required for effecting the

 recovery. Therefore, he prayed that the present petition be

 dismissed. 7. I have given considerable thought to the rival

 submissions at the bar and have gone through the record

 carefully. 8. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in P.

 Chidambaram vs. Directorate of Enforcement 2019 (9) SCC 24 that

 the power of pre-arrest is extraordinary and should be exercised

 sparingly. It was observed: 9. The FIR specifically mentions that the accused no. 2,

 the present petitioner had prepared obscene photographs and

 videos of the victim, which were used for blackmailing her and

 calling her to different places by accused no.1. It further

 mentions that on 2.9.2023, petitioner and accused no. 1 had

 raped the victim after administering some intoxicant to her. These averments are to be accepted as correct at this stage. 10. It was submitted that the long silence of the victim

 for two years shows her consent. This submission is not

 acceptable. There is a presumption under Section 114-A of the

 Indian Evidence Act regarding the absence of consent when the

 victim states that she had not consented. It was laid down by the ::: Downloaded on - 22/12/2023 20:32:10 :::CIS 8 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Naim Ahamed vs. State (NCT of Delhi ),

 2023 SCC OnLine SC 89 that Section 114A of the Indian Evidence

 . Act provides that when the victim states in a case of rape that

 she had not consented, the Court has to presume that there was

 no consent. It was observed:- 11. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Yedla Srinivasa Rao v. State of A.P. (2006) 11 SCC 615, that in view

 of Section 114-A when the victim says that she had not

 consented, the Court has to presume the absence of the consent. It was observed:- rt 16. If sexual intercourse has been committed by the accused
 and if it is proved that it was without the consent of the

 prosecutrix and she states in her evidence before the court
 that she did not consent, the court shall presume that she
 did not consent. The presumption has been introduced by

 the legislature in the Evidence Act looking to atrocities
 committed against women and in the instant case as per
 the statement of PW 1, she resisted and she did not give

 consent to the accused at the first instance and he
 committed the rape on her. The accused gave her assurance

 that he would marry her and continued to satisfy his lust
 till she became pregnant and it became clear that the
 accused did not wish to marry her." 12. This judgment was followed in Anurag Soni Vs State of

 Chhattisgarh , 2019 (13) SCC 1. Therefore, in view of the binding

 precedents of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, the Court cannot infer

 consent, when the victim stated that she had not consented to

 the sexual intercourse. 13. The petitioner has relied upon the details of Toll ::: Downloaded on - 22/12/2023 20:32:10 :::CIS 10 Plaza dated 2.9.2023, in which the vehicle bearing registration

 No. CH01-BX-4019 has been shown to have crossed the Toll

 . Plaza on 02-09-2023 at 09:03:05 and 23:37:15 to establish that

 he was not present at Manimajra. This document will not assist

 the petitioner at this stage. First, there is no evidence that this

 vehicle was owned by the petitioner. Second, there is no

 of
 evidence that the petitioner was travelling in it. Thus, this

 document cannot be used to falsify the specific statement made
 rt
 by the victim in the FIR. 14. It was submitted that there was a delay in reporting

 the matter to the police which will make it highly improbable

 that the incident as asserted had taken place. Reliance was

 placed upon the judgment passed by this Court in Ved Prakash

 (supra), wherein it was held that in case of delay, the Court is

 required to see the contents of the FIR more carefully. There can

 be no dispute with this proposition of law. At the same time, it

 cannot be ignored that mere delay in sexual offence cases is not

 always fatal. The question is one of appreciation of the evidence

 keeping in mind the delay in reporting the matter to the police. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Satpal

 Singh v. State of Haryana , reported in (2010) 8 SCC 714 that in ::: Downloaded on - 22/12/2023 20:32:10 :::CIS 11 sexual offences, the honour of the family is involved and the

 delay should not be used to discard the prosecution case. It was

 . observed: of 15. Similarly it was held in State of Himachal

 Pradesh v. Prem Singh (2009) 1 SCC 420: AIR 2009 SC 1010, that
 rt
 the delay in sexual assault cannot be equated to other offences. It

 was observed:-- 16. The Bombay High Court noticed the condition of a

 rape victim in State of Maharashtra v. Savala Sagu 1997 Cri LJ

 786 and held that the victim can report the matter after

 overcoming the trauma of rape. It was observed: 17. In the present case, the victim was an unmarried girl. of
 She was being threatened with obscene videos and pictures. She

 could have complained after overcoming the fear. Hence, the
 rt
 delay in the present case cannot be held to be fatal. 18. Reliance was placed upon the judgment of the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Beerbal Prasad Rajoriya (supra) on

 behalf of the petitioner; however, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 had granted the bail due to delay and the "attending

 circumstances" which shows that the bail was granted in the

 peculiar facts of the case and the order cannot be treated as a

 precedent. Thus, no advantage can be derived from this

 judgment. 19. The petitioner has also relied upon the copy of the

 affidavit executed by him, in which he had stated that the

 images or videos are not contained in the electronic form in his ::: Downloaded on - 22/12/2023 20:32:10 :::CIS 14 device or mobile phone and if these are circulated, he is

 responsible. This affidavit is in the nature of an admission made

 . by a person in his favour and will be inadmissible because of section 21 of the Indian Evidence Act and no advantage can be

 derived from the same. 20. The victim stated that the present petitioner had

 of
 taken her obscene photographs and prepared her obscene
 rt
 videos. The recovery of the photographs and videos is essential

 to determine the truthfulness or otherwise of the prosecution

 case. Since the recovery of the obscene photographs and videos

 has not been effected, hence, the prayer of the prosecution for

 the custodial interrogation is justified. It was laid down by

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in State Versus Anil Sharma (1997) 7 SCC

 187 that where custodial interrogation is required, pre-arrest

 bail should not be granted. It was observed:- 21. A similar view was taken by the Delhi High Court in Mukesh Khurana v. State (NCT of Delhi ), 2022 SCC OnLine Del 1032
 rt
 wherein it was observed: 22. The petitioner has sought the pre-arrest bail in a

 rape case. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in MS. X versus State of Maharashtra and another , 2023 STPL 3386 SC,

 [2023(2) Crimes 66 (SC)] that in case of rape, the pre-arrest bail

 should not be granted. It was observed:- So has the financial stature, position and standing of the
 accused vis-a-vis the appellant/prosecutrix been ignored. . The High Court has granted anticipatory bail in favour of

 the respondent No. 2/accused in a brief order of three
 paragraphs, having been swayed by the 'star variations in
 the narration of the prosecutrix' implying thereby that

 what was originally recorded in the FIR, did not make out
 an offence of rape, as defined in Section 375 IPC, which is
 an erroneous assumption. Even if the first Supplementary

 of
 statement of the appellant/prosecutrix recorded in the
 evening hours of 6th August 2022, the date on which the
 FIR had been registered against respondent No.2/accused
 in the first half of the same day, her second
 rt
 Supplementary statement recorded on 6th September
 2022 and the Medico-Legal Report of the doctor who had

 examined the appellant/prosecutrix on 8th August 2022,
 are kept aside for a moment, we find that there was still
 sufficient material in the FIR that would prima facie attract
 the provision of Section 376 , IPC. In our opinion, these factors

 ought to have dissuaded the High Court from exercising its
 discretion in favour of respondent No.2/accused for granting
 him anticipatory bail. (Emphasis supplied) 23. Therefore, in view of the above, the petitioner is not

 entitled to pre-arrest bail. Consequently, the present petition

 fails and the same is dismissed. 24. The observations made hereinbefore shall remain

 confined to the disposal of the petition and will have no bearing,

 whatsoever, on the merits of the case. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge
 20th December, 2023
 (Chander) ::: Downloaded on - 22/12/2023 20:32:10 :::CIS