(1) The petitioners, 30 in number, have filed this petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India read with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Code for short) for quashing the orders of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI for short) directing the various banks, financial Institutions and Post offices with which the petitioners have their respective accounts, to freeze those accounts. The Cbi claims to have exercised such powers under Section 102 of the Code. The brief facts necessary for the disposal of this petition are that petitioners 1 and 4-who are brothers have been doing business of the manufacture and sale of phosphate fertilizers in Punjab. Initially they started this business in partnership with four others (not parties to the present petition) under the name and style of M/s Punjab Fertilizers & Pesticide Industries (PFPI for short) with its registered office at Amritsar. The firm continued its business up to 8.6.83 when it was dissolved and business taken over by a Private Limited Company known as the Punjab Phosphates (P) Ltd. (PPPL for short) again with its registered office at Amritsar. Petitioner No. I claims to be its Managing Director while petitioner No. 2, a Director. The Union of India, the first respondent introduced a scheme of subsidy to sustain and ensure the healthy development of phosphate industry in the year 1976. To reap the benefit of this scheme, the firm gave the required undertaking regarding the manufacture and sale of phosphate fertilizers. Although a copy of such undertaking is not available with the petitioners containing the material terms and conditions. One of its terms is claimed to be as follows:. "WE futher undertake that if the aforesaid amount is not credited by us in the time limits specified above, we shall pay interest at the rate of 2.5% above the ruling bank rate for working capital loans as prescribed in the Government of India specimen of Undertaking/ Agreement or at the rate as Fixed from time to time. We also undertake and promise to abide by the decisions of the Committee which is final and binding on all matters relating to the determination of the fair price." (2) An intimation regarding the business of the firm having been taken over by the Company is alleged to have sent to the concerned department of the State Government as well as the Union of India with a request to record the change, with the same Undertaking. In 1986, the Company shifted its factory from Amritsar to Bahadur Garh in the state of Haryana under intimation to the Union of India. Factory, however is alleged to be living closed since the end of 1987. The firm/Company, claimed amount of subsidy according to their entitlement in respect of the goods actually manufactured and sold from 1980 through May, 1987. Since no sales were carried out thereafter, no claim for any subsidy was prepared either at Amritsar or at Bahadur Garh. The Cbi lodged five FIRs during the course of investigation in respect of some transactions against some of the petitioners detailed in para 2.6 of the petition. The substance of one of such Fir No.11 of 11-11-1988 is as follows: "ON a reliable information received by it to the effect that the 1st petitioner during the year 1980, entered into a criminal conspiracy with certain unknown persons and started a firm under the name and style of M/s Punjab Chemicals & Fertilizers Limited with its registered office at Ram Bagh Gate, Opposite Church. Amritsar, Punjab in the same year for manufacturing of Super phosphate Fertilizer and the same was registered with the department of Industries, Arnritsar, Punjab on 10 July 1980. The name of the said firm was later on changed to Pppl, Amritsar with effect from 5th May, 1983. The factory is alleged to have been located at Nehru Park. Azad Road, Chheharata. Amritsar, Punjab. The Firm had an installed capacity of 36,000 -Metric tonnes and utilized capacity of 15,000 Metric tonnes of super phosphate. As per the policy of the Government of India, any firm producing super phosphate fertilizer was allowed to claim subsidy of Rs. 200.00 per metric tonne on the production of the unit and Ministry of Petroleum, Chemical & Fertilizers, Government of India. New Delhi vide their circular had prescribed procedure for filing the claims of subsidy by the manufacturing unit and such Units were required to file their claims supported by statements showing distribution of the fertilizers and that the Companies were also required to submit certificates signed by the Chartered Accountants of the Company. It was also required that the bills of subsidy claims be submitted through the State Government - in this case the Government of Punjab, to the office of the Director, Fertilizer Industries Coordination Committee. New Delhi. (DFICC for short). The prosecution learnt that in furtherance of the said criminal conspiracy, the first petitioner in his capacity as Managing Director of Pppl dishonestly and fraudulently submitted bogus subsidy claims in the office of Dficc from December, 1980 to March, 1983, with bogus certificates through the State Government of Punjab without manufacturing any such fertilizer in his above said factory and in this manner claimed and received a total amount of Rs. 2,64,55,776.00 on the strength of the bogus certificates of manufacture, sale etc. of fertilizer from DFICC. The Dficc is alleged to have dishonestly and fraudulently passed amounts against such bogus subsidy claims without verifying the genuineness of the supporting documents/certificates which they were required to do. In December, 1986 the Pppl itself registered with the District Industries Centre, Bahadurgarh, Haryana and showed its factory to be located in village Sankhal of District Rohtak where in fact, no manufacturing activities have taken place and for which subsidy claims were submitted and obtained. The Unit did not consume any required quantity of electricity for manufacture of such huge quantity of fertilizer. The above facts prima facie disclose the commission of offences under sections 120B Indian Penal Code read with 420,467,468 & 471 Ipc and the case is, therefore, registered and entrusted to Sh.D.K. Choudhary, Dy.SP,CBI,SPE/SIU Viii, New Delhi, turn investigation." (3) Petitioners 1 and 4 were arrested on 6.12.1988. Their residential as well as business premises were raided and all account books, correspondences. house hold articles, vehicles, bearer bonds. National Saving Certificates, Indra Vikas Patras, Jew- ellery, cash, licensed weapons etc. were seized and taken away. Their accounts in various Banks, post office etc, as detailed in para 2.8 are alleged to have been frozen and operation prohibited by the Cbi by writing letters to the aforesaid Banks etc. On enquiry by the State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur about the laws under which such directions were issued, Cbi clarified by writing to the following effect- (Page 116) "KINDLY refer to your letter dated......you had asked for specific authority vested by the relevant Act to freeze the account of Shri Prem Kumar Parmar. In this connection, I am to bring to your kind notice that the accused Shri P.K. Parmar in conspiracy had cheated the Government of India for 1980-87 to the tune of Rs. 2.64 crores. It is the responsibility of investigation Agency to recover such amounts. I have to bring to your kind notice that there is section in Criminal Procedure Code of India Section 102 and provision of criminal law amendment of Ordinance, 1944. At this stage of investigation, we are simple freezing the account of the accused person either in their own name, in the names of their relatives, family members or some benami names and also opening lockers etc. Yours faithfully, sd/- (D.K.Choudhary)" (7) In a nut shell the principle of law laid down in these authorities is that unless the discovery of a property leads to the suspicion of having been committed. Section 102 cannot be invoked for seizing such properties. Therefore, let us see whether there are any circumstances in the present case to indicate that it is the discovery of the frozen accounts or the seizure of the aforesaid articles that has led the Cbi to the suspicion, of substantive offences having been committed under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 and 471 read with Section 120B Indian Penal Code It is the specific allegation of the Cbi in the counter affidavit that petitioners 12 and 13 were paupers and living on old age pension and, therefore , seizure of various properties from the first petitioner alleged to be gifted by them to him prima facie indicates the fraudulent acquisition of such properties by the first petitioner. Similarly the discovery of an account in the name of Kishan Chand, petitioner No. 11 who is none else than the first petitioner himself in itself is an attending circumstance showing the commission of some offence by the petitioner. It defies common sense why the first petitioner should open a fictitious account as Kishan Chand. The allegations in para 2.9 of the petition that petitioners 5 to 30, were not in any way directly or indirectly concerned with the firm or the company or that their deposits and dealings with the financial institutions are independent dealings, has been factually found to be incorrect because petitioner No. 11, under a different name is the first petitioner himself. Similarly petitioner No. 27 is the same person as petitioner No. 5 under different name. The vary fact that the accounts are found either in the name of non-existent persons or in bogus names and all such accounts being allegedly operated by, the first petitioner himself immediately points an accusing finger upon the first petitioner. Similarly the allegations of the Cbi that the first petitioner has opened the accounts in the name of his wife, daughters and son by forging their signatures is in itself an attending circumstance which is sufficient to set the machinery of criminal law in motion against the first petitioner. (8) Besides that, during the investigation the prosecution also come to know that without actually manufacturing phosphate and fertilizers, the first petitioner withdrew as much as Rs. 3.39 crores as subsidy from the Govt. of India by producing bogus documents. The question, therefore, would arise that if the firm/company started by the petitioner did not in fact manufacture the fertilizer or even procure the raw material etc. and obtained huge amounts of subsidy from Govt. of India, where such amounts have been kept/invested by the first petitioner? It was only in consequence of such weighty suspicions against the petitioners, who are alleged to be none other than the show pieces of the first petitioner, that amounts of subsidies drawn by him were presumably kept in various bank accounts, lockers and invested in various policies by the first petitioner fraudulently in the name of all other petitioners. So the recovery of such assets links them prima facie with the commission of various offences with which they have been charged by the. CBI. The suspicion of Cbi is not that the sale proceeds of fertilizers have been held in various accounts by the petitioners. In fact according to Cbi, there was no manufacture of fertilizers by Pppl at all and all the documents regarding alleged purchase of raw material for the same and its sale were forged/fabricated solely with the intention of cheating the Govt and realize subsidies from it and invest the same in fake names by the first petitioner. The issuance of directions by the Cbi to various bankers/financial institutions freezing the accounts of the petitioners is based on a sound footing in the present case. There is no reason to interfere in the steps taken by the CBI. (9) However, before parting, it must be said that the Cbi should file the chargesheet now within the shortest possible period, preferably within a period of three months. The petitioners will also co-operate with the further investigations, if any, and they will make themselves available to the Investigating officer as and when they require.