1. By way of these appeals, the appellants challenge the common
 impugned judgment of learned Trial Court dated 9th October, 2018 and
 order on sentence dated 11th October, 2018 whereby the appellants were
 held guilty and were sentenced as under: Section 148 IPC Rigorous imprisonment for
 three years along with fine of
 ₹1,000/- each in default
 whereof simple imprisonment
 for one month. Section 325 r/w Rigorous imprisonment for Section 149 IPC seven years along with fine of
 ₹5,000/- each in default
 whereof simple imprisonment
 for six months. Section 302 r/w Rigorous imprisonment for life Section 149 IPC along with fine of ₹50,000/- each in default whereof simple
 imprisonment for two years. Section 149 IPC seven years along with fine of
 ₹5,000/- each in default
 whereof simple imprisonment
 for six months. 3. Akash, Section 147 IPC, Rigorous imprisonment for two
 Deepak @ years along with fine of
 Dutta, ₹1,000/- each in default
 Naushad, whereof simple imprisonment
 Suraj @ for one month. Section 302 r/w Rigorous imprisonment for life Section 149 IPC along with fine of ₹10,000/- each in default whereof simple
 imprisonment for one year. Section 452 r/w Rigorous imprisonment for Section 149 IPC seven years along with fine of
 ₹5,000/- each in default
 whereof simple imprisonment
 for six months. 2. As per the prosecution facts of the case are that on 29th March, 2017
 at about 12.00-12.15 PM, Rahul (injured/PW-21) was caught hold by
 appellant Anchal and his associates in D Block, Mukundpur, beaten up and
 taken to Anchal's house, where he was again beaten up. Under fear and
 threat, Rahul disclosed the whereabouts of Narender (deceased) to the
 assailants. Thereafter, PCR officials reached the spot and while some of the
 assailants/appellants ran away from the spot, three assailants/appellants

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Page 5 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 namely Dilip Mishra, Neelu and Sushma were taken to the police station by
 PCR officials along with injured Rahul (PW-21). Information about this
 incident was also given by one Chandan to the police which was recorded
 vide DD No.37B at about 12.50 PM that Rahul who was a murder suspect
 has been caught, however, when ASI Ramesh Chand (PW-25) along with
 HC Balu Palve (PW-7) reached the spot, they could not find anyone and
 were informed that Rahul and the three appellants were taken to the police
 station. These two police officers came back to the police station at about
 1.30 PM and at the police station, injured Rahul and the said three
 appellants were present and Rahul was taken to the hospital by Ct.Chander
 Prakash (PW-6) and at the same time the three appellants left the police
 station. In the meanwhile, at about 12.30-12.45 PM, two appellants Anchal
 and Akash along with appellants Deepak, Suraj, Jitender @ Guddu Passi
 and Naushad entered the house of deceased and assaulted the deceased.
 Thereafter, the deceased was dragged out of his house till Aam Aadmi
 Chowk, Gali No.8, where he was again beaten up. In respect to this
 incident, information was given to the police by one Pradeep, which was
 recorded vide DD No.43B on which PW-7 and PW-25 reached the Aam
 Aadmi Chowk where Dilip, Neelu and Sushma along with their associates
 were seen beating the deceased by the police officials. Police officials were
 able to apprehend and arrest five of the appellants at the spot namely
 Sushma (Ex.PW-22/A), Neelu (Ex.PW-22/B), Dilip Mishra (Ex.PW-
 19/A1), Anchal (Ex.PW-19/B1) and Akash (Ex.PW-19/C1). The deceased
 was taken to the hospital by PW-25 and at about 4.50 PM, the deceased died
 at the hospital. At the hospital, statement of father of the deceased Ram

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Page 6 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 Kishan (PW-11) was recorded (Ex.PW-11/A) and rukka (Ex.PW-16/B) was
 prepared on which FIR No.204/2017 dated 29th March, 2017 under Sections
 147 / 148 / 149 / 452 / 302 / 34 IPC was registered at PS Bhalswa Dairy (Ex.PW-
 9/A). 3. Dr.Anshul Saxena (PW-1) conducted the post-mortem on the dead
 body of Narender S/o Ram Kishan on 30th March, 2017 and tendered his
 report (Ex.PW-1/A). He opined: 4. Surgically sutured wound, with intact sutures, measuring
 2 cm in length, was present over left occipital region, situated 2
 cm below previous injury. Opening of the sutures revealed a
 lacerated wound. 5. Surgically sutured wound, with intact sutures, measuring
 3.5 cm in length, was present over left occipital region, situated
 3 cm away from external occipital protuberance. Opening of
 the sutures revealed a lacerated wound; 6. Surgically sutured wound, with intact sutures, measuring
 6 cm in length, was present over right occipital region.
 Opening of the sutures revealed a lacerated wound. 7. Surgically sutured wound, with intact sutures, measuring
 1.5 cm in length, was present over right parietal region,

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Page 7 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 situated 4 cm above previous injury. Opening of the sutures
 revealed a lacerated wound. 8. Surgically sutured wound, with intact sutures, measuring
 7 cm in length, was present over right occipital region, situated
 2 cm below external injury no. 6. Opening of the sutures
 revealed a lacerated wound. 9. Surgically sutured wound, with intact sutures, measuring
 2 cm in length, was present over right occipital region, situated
 3.5 cm below external injury no. 6. Opening of the sutures
 revealed a lacerated wound. 10. Surgically sutured wound, with Intact sutures, measuring
 3 cm in length, was present over right occipital region, situated
 4 cm below external injury no. 6. Opening of the sutures
 revealed a lacerated wound. 11. Surgically sutured wound, with intact sutures, measuring
 1 cm in length, was present over occipital region in midline,
 situated 7 cm below external occipital protuberance. Opening
 of the sutures revealed a lacerated wound. 12. Surgically sutured wound, with intact sutures, measuring
 3 cm in length, was present over right frontal region, situated 8
 cm above and 4 cm away from glabella. Opening of the sutures
 revealed a lacerated wound. 13. Surgically sutured wound, with intact sutures, measuring
 3.5 cm in length, was present, over left frontal region, situated
 3 cm away from previous injury. Opening of the sutures
 revealed a lacerated wound. 14. Surgically sutured wound, with intact sutures, measuring
 7 cm in length, was present over left fronto-parietal region,
 situated 4 cm away from previous injury. Opening of the
 sutures revealed a lacerated wound. 15. Abraded contusion, reddish in colour, measuring 7 x 4
 cm, was present over forehead and face in the midline, situated
 1 cm above glabella. 16. Abraded contusion, reddish in colour, measuring 5 x 2
 cm, was present over left side of face, situated 1 cm below outer
 canthus of left eye. 17. Superficial laceration, measuring 1 x 0.5 cm, was present
 over right side of face, situated 2 cm below and 1 cm away from
 inner canthus of right eye. 18. Surgically sutured wound, with intact sutures, measuring
 2.5 cm in length, was present over right mandibular region,
 situated 2 cm away from symphysis menti. Opening of the
 sutures revealed a lacerated wound. 19. Abraded contusion, reddish in colour, measuring 2.2 x
 1.5 cm, was present over left shoulder region. 20. Multiple abraded contusions, reddish in colour, over an
 area of 15 x 10.5 cm, were present over left shoulder and arm,
 starting at the shoulder tip. 21. Multiple contusions, reddish in colour, were present over
 back of entire right forearm and hand. 22. Multiple contusions, reddish in colour, were present over
 back of entire left forearm and hand. 23. Contusion, reddish in colour, measuring 10 x 4 cm, was
 present over back on the left side, situated 2 cm below and 6 cm
 inner to the left shoulder tip. 24. Multiple abraded contusions, reddish in colour, over an
 area of 12 x 2 cm, were present over back on the left side,
 ending 9 cm above left posterior superior iliac spine. 25. Abraded contusion, reddish in colour, measuring 4 x 1.8
 cm, was present over right shoulder region. 26. Multiple abraded contusions, reddish in colour, over an
 area of 13 x 5.5 cm, were present over back in the midline and
 on the right side, starting 15 cm above upper end of gluteal
 cleft. 27. Multiple abraded contusions, reddish in colour, over an
 area of 5 x 3.5 cm, were present over right knee. 28. Abraded contusion, reddish in colour, measuring 3 x 1.5
 cm, was present over right leg, situated 15 cm below right knee. 29. Vertically placed, wedge shaped, penetrating stab
 wound, measuring 2.2 x 0.3 cm, was present over front of right
 leg, situated 12 cm above right ankle. 30. Surgically sutured wound, with intact sutures, measuring
 3 cm in length, was present over left knee. Opening of the
 sutures revealed a lacerated wound. 31. Multiple abraded contusions, reddish in colour, over an
 area of 6 x 4 cm, were present over back left leg, starting 10 cm
 above left ankle. 32. Multiple superficial lacerations, over an area of 5 x 3
 cm, were present over left foot. The above mentioned injuries were ante-mortem in nature. OPINION: 19/A-3), Anchal (Ex.PW-19/B-3), Akash (Ex.PW-19/C-3) were recorded.
 On 25th April, 2017, on receipt of information regarding arrest of the other
 accused persons by special staff of crime team, Insp. Satish Kumar along
 with Ramji Lal went to Rohini Court Complex where after his application
 seeking permission for interrogation was allowed, Insp. Satish Kumar
 interrogated and arrested appellant Naushad, Suraj @ Tinda and Deepak @
 Dutta vide arrest memo Ex.PW-5/D, Ex.PW-5/E, Ex.PW-5/F respectively
 and their disclosure statements Ex.PW-5/G, Ex.PW-5/H and Ex.PW-5/I
 respectively were also recorded. After completion of investigation, charge-
 sheet was filed and all the nine appellants were charged as under: CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 11 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 Fifthly on the above said date at about
 12.30/12.45 PM from house no.33/354 Trilok Puri,
 Delhi to street no.8, Aam Aadmi Chowk, Mkand Vihar,
 Mukand Pur, Delhi you all in furtherance of the
 common object of unlawful assembly assaulted
 Narender and caused his death and thereby committed
 the offence punishable under Sec.302 read with Sec.149 IPC and within the cognizance of this court." To prove its case the prosecution examined 27 witnesses and defence
 evidence was led only by Jitender @ Guddu Passi by examining his sister
 Smt. Indu as DW-1, who claimed that in March, 2017 she visited the
 parental house at Patna and came back to Delhi on 27 th March, 2017 and her
 brother i.e. appellant stayed back at Patna and came to meet her at Delhi on
 4th April, 2017. 5. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of appellants Dilip Mishra,
 Neelu, Anchal, Akash and Sushma submitted that the appellants admit the
 first incident that occurred at their house with respect to beating Rahul and
 pleaded that they may be released on the period undergone under Section
 325 IPC. Learned counsel contended that the conviction of these appellants
 for the other two incidents of house trespassing and murder of Narender is
 untenable. It was submitted that it was untenable that ASI Ramesh Chand
 and HC Balu Palve went to three different places pursuant to DD No.37B,
 43B and 46B within a short span of time. It was further pointed out that the
 version of father of deceased Ram Kishan (PW-11) is also full of
 contradiction and is not believable. As per the testimony of PW-11, the
 house of the deceased was about 72 Sq. Yards in size with a bedroom of

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 12 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 10x12 feet having a double bed, dressing table, almirah, sofa and chairs
 despite which ten persons entered the said room, out of which 7-8 persons
 were carrying danda, saria and knife. Further, despite having been pushed
 away twice i.e. firstly, during the incident which took place inside the house
 and second, at the incident which took place at Aam Aadmi Chowk, he did
 not sustain any injury, which fact also creates doubt on his presence at the
 spot. It was further contended that statement of other eye-witness Rahul
 (PW-20) was recorded after about 1½ months for unknown reasons. Further,
 PW-20 deposed that statement of PW-11 was recorded at the police station
 while PW-11 deposed that his statement was recorded at the hospital itself
 and thereby, contradicting each other. It was further pointed out that neither
 of the eye-witnesses i.e. PW-11 and PW-20 made a call to the police which
 in itself is an unnatural conduct. Further, despite being a heavily populated
 area no member of the public was made a witness in the case. 6. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of appellant Naushad contended
 that the prosecution failed to establish guilt of the appellant beyond
 reasonable doubt and thus, he be acquitted. It was contended that PW-11 is
 the father of the deceased and PW-20 is the cousin of the deceased and are
 interested witnesses and cannot be relied upon. It was pointed out that it is
 on record that the deceased was a resident of Mukundpur and PW-11 was a
 resident of Trilokpuri and therefore, the sudden presence of PW-11 at the
 spot is doubtful. Further, as per PW-11's initial statement i.e. Ex.PW-11/A,
 the assailants were not known to him and he had given the names of the
 assailants on being told by PW-20. Furthermore, as per PW-11's version he
 had good look at the assailants, however, despite that, he did not give any

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 13 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 description of the assailants i.e. height, built etc. It was further contended
 that there is no evidence on record to show that the incident in fact took
 place inside the house of the deceased. The photographs taken by the crime
 team were in this regard not proved during trial. The version of PW-11 and
 PW-20 of Anchal inflicting knife injury on the deceased is not proved by the
 MLC of the deceased (Ex.PW-18/A). It was further contended that no public
 witness or resident of the locality was made witness despite the incident
 having been taken at the open place of the locality. It was argued on behalf
 of the appellant that the appellant being a resident of the same locality, his
 mere presence in the vicinity is insufficient to fasten any liability with the
 aid of Section 149 IPC and in this regard, reliance was placed on (2013) 16
 SCC 752 Ranjit Singh & Ors. vs. State of Punjab. Further, no specific role
 has been attributed to the appellant in the commission of the offence.
 Furthermore, the recovery of danda shown at the instance of the appellant is
 planted as the same was made from an open field after about 40 days of the
 incident and no blood was detected on the danda, and recovery from all the
 appellants arrested on 24th April, 2017, was shown from the same place i.e.
 Bhalswa Jheel Golf Course, and all these facts render the recovery
 unreliable. 7. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of appellant Jitender @ Guddu
 Passi contended that the case of the prosecution was based on the direct
 evidence in the form of testimony of PW-6, PW-7, PW-11, PW-19, PW-20
 and PW-25, however, all these witnesses had either not named the appellant
 or only a vague allegation had been made against the appellant. No specific
 role had been assigned to the appellant and no police official was able to

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 14 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 identify the appellant. It was further contended that presence of the key
 eye-witnesses PW-11 and PW-20 is itself doubtful as PW-6 and PW-19 who
 were the first who reached the spot categorically stated that they did not
 meet any family member of the deceased at the spot. Even otherwise, the
 conduct of PW-11 and PW-20 was doubtful as they neither sustained any
 injury nor tried to save the deceased nor informed the police. Furthermore,
 it was the police officials who had taken the deceased to the hospital and not
 PW-11 or PW-20. Statement of PW-20 was recorded after 1½ month of the
 incident. In this regard reliance was placed on the decision in 2010: 8. Learned amicus curiae appearing on behalf of appellant Deepak @
 Dutta submitted that neither any independent witness was made to join the
 investigation, when the disclosure statement of the appellant was recorded
 nor any witness was made to join the recovery of danda from Bhalswa
 Jheel. In this regard reliance was placed on the decision in 2022 SCC
 OnLine SC 1396 Ramanand @ Nandlal Bharti vs. State of U.P. It was

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 15 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 pointed out that as per the testimonies of IO (PW-26) and HC Karam Singh
 (PW-23), the dandas recovered from the Bhalswa Jheel area had bloodstains
 on them, however, as per the FSL report (Ex.PW-26/G), no blood was found
 on the dandas. Even otherwise, there is no evidence brought on record to
 link the alleged dandas recovered to the commission of the present offence,
 for which reliance was placed on the decision in ( 2017) 11 SCC 31
 Debapriya Pal vs. State of West Bengal . It was further contended that the
 testimony of two eye witnesses PW-11 and PW-20 is doubtful and does not
 inspire confidence and reliance was placed on the decision (2013) 4 SCC
 422 Sunil Kundu & Anr. vs. State of Jharkhand. Furthermore, it was
 submitted that the CDR of the mobile phone of the appellant was not placed
 on record by the IO which would have shown the exact location of the
 appellant. Learned counsel for the appellant relied upon the decision in
 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1454 Nandu Singh vs. State of Chhattisgarh and
 submitted that the prosecution even failed to establish any motive and this
 aspect was completely ignored by the learned Trial Court. It was further
 submitted that the appellant had refused to undergo TIP as the police had
 already taken his photographs and relied upon the decisions in (2021) 1
 SCC 118 Rajesh vs. State of Haryana and 2023 SCC OnLine Del. 1769 Azad vs. State of GNCTD & Anr . 9. On the other hand, learned APP for the State submitted that the
 impugned judgment of learned Trial Court is based on proper appreciation
 of evidence in the present case and there is no infirmity in the impugned
 judgment, and therefore, the present appeals are liable to be dismissed. To
 buttress his submissions, he relied upon the following facts. statements under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
 1973 (― Cr.P.C .‖) that they were taken by the PCR van to the police
 station along with injured Rahul (PW-21) which constitutes an
 admission of their involvement in the incident pertaining to injuries
 caused to Rahul. Rahul identified all the appellants and attributed
 specific roles to them i.e. Anchal caught hold of him and gave kick
 and fist blows, Akash gave kick and fist blows in his stomach, Neelu
 and Sushma beat him with bricks and stones and exhorted ―ise jaan se
 maar do‖, Deepak, Suraj and Jitender @ Guddu Passi gave beatings
 to him when he was tied with rope, Naushad gave him fist blows on
 his stomach and Dilip Mishra had also beaten him and threatened him
 not to depose to the police about the incident. ii. MLC of Rahul (Ex.PW-18/B) corroborates his version and the dental
 opinion recorded that ―injury is grievous from dental side‖.
 iii. Ram Kishan (PW-11) and Rahul Nishad (PW-20) were the eye
 witnesses to the incident and they correctly identified the appellants
 in the Court and attributed specific role of each of the appellants.
 Ram Kishan neither named nor identified appellant Suraj @ Tinda.
 Presence of both these eye witnesses at the spot was natural, being
 deceased's relative and living in the same locality.
 iv. Appellants Anchal Mishra, Dilip Mishra, Neelu, Sushma, Akash @
 Nakali and JCL ‗V' were arrested from the spot while remaining
 accused fled away from the spot. These remaining appellants namely
 Naushad, Deepak @ Dutta and Suraj @ Tinda were arrested on 24 th

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 17 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 April 2017 by officials of Special Team, Crime Branch on the basis
 of a secret information from service road near All Heavens Banquet
 Hall at Wazirpur Industrial Area vide arrest memo Ex.PW-13/A,
 Ex.PW-13/C and Ex.PW-13/E respectively. Appellant Jitender @
 Guddu Passi was arrested by another Special Team of Crime Branch
 on 6th May 2017 from near his resident at Village Amora
 (Ex.PW12/B). v. The prosecution witnesses i.e. PW-11, PW-20, PW-6, PW-7, PW-19
 and PW-25 have consistently deposed about the weapons carried by
 the appellants. Bloodstained wooden stick (Baans) was recovered at
 the instance of Dilip Mishra (Ex.PW-6/A), one bloodstained wooden
 stick (Danda) was recovered at the instance of Akash (Ex.PW-7/A),
 one bloodstained knife was recovered at the instance of Anchal
 Mishra (Ex.PW-7/B) and one bloodstained iron rod was recovered
 from JCL ‗V' (Ex.PW-7/C). And appellant Jitender @ Guddu Passi
 got recovered a knife from some bushes at Bhalswa Jheel Jungle.
 Furthermore, bloodstained clothes of Dilip Mishra (Ex.PW-19/A4),
 Anchal Mishra (Ex.PW-19/B4), Akash Nakali (Ex.PW-19/C4),
 Sushma (Ex.PW22/G) and Neelu (Ex.PW22/H) were recovered at the
 time of their arrest at the spot itself. vi. The post-mortem report of Narender (Ex.PW-1/A) recorded 32
 external injuries on the body of the deceased and it was opined that
 the cause of death was head injury sustained as a result of blunt
 trauma to the head. vii. As per DNA report (Ex.PW-26/G), deceased's blood/DNA was found
 on the clothes of the Dilip Mishra, Anchal Mishra, Sushma, Neelu
 and JCL ‗V'. Blood of the deceased was also found on the shirt of
 Ram Kishan (PW-11) which proves his presence at the spot. 10. Learned APP for the State further submitted that although there were
 improvements in the testimony of PW-21, PW-11 and PW-20 as compared
 to their respective statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C. (Ex.PW-21/D,
 Ex.PW-11/A and Ex.PW-20/D respectively), however, the same being
 minor in nature, do not affect the credibility of the witnesses. It was further
 submitted that the present case is based on direct evidence and the evidence
 of all the witnesses is cogent, corroborative and reliable and is also
 substantiated by medical and forensic evidence. Further, the evidence of an
 injured eye witness is held in high regard by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
 a catena of judgments and as such, Rahul (PW-21) has remained consistent
 in his statement. Learned APP further contended that refusal by the four
 appellants namely Naushad, Deepak @ Dutta, Suraj @ Tinda and Jitender
 @ Guddu Passi to participate in the TIP does not affect the credibility of
 their dock identification by PW-20 and other prosecution witnesses during
 trial and in this respect, reliance was placed on a judgment of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court reported as ( 2012) 7 SCC 646 Shyamal Ghosh Vs. State of
 West Bengal . 11. Having heard both the parties at length and perusing the record, the
 following evidence emerges. 12. Ram Kishan (PW-11) deposed that his son/deceased was residing at
 Gali No.4, D-Block, Janta Vihar, Mukundapur Delhi for the last five years. On 29th March 2017, he was on duty rest and at about 11:30-11:45 AM, he
 visited his son/deceased along with Rahul @ Nishad. At about 12:30-12:45
 PM, someone knocked the door which was opened by Rahul and three
 persons were found standing at the door who asked for a bottle of 20L
 water, as the deceased used to supply drinking water. Thereafter, all these
 three persons entered the house of his son/deceased and were followed by 4-
 5 other boys who also entered the house including Anchal whom he knew
 prior to the incident. Anchal said ―tune mere bhai ko mara hai, aaj tujhe
 khatam ker denge‖. He further stated that Anchal was carrying a knife in his
 hand and gave a blow with the same on the neck of his son/deceased, and as
 his son/deceased ducked, the deceased sustained injuries on his head. ‗V'
 alias ‗G' was carrying saria/iron rod and Akash was carrying danda in his
 hand and they gave blows with the same to his son/deceased. The deceased
 tried to run towards the staircase but he was covered by 4-5 boys and was
 not allowed to escape. He rushed to save his son, but Naushad pushed him
 aside and he being a heart patient, became semi-conscious. He further stated
 that his son was beaten with bricks, piece of silli/slab, danda, knife and
 sariya. After regaining consciousness, he asked about the whereabouts of
 his son/deceased and thereafter, he along with Rahul @ Nishad reached
 Aam Aadmi Chowk. At the Aam Aadmi Chowk, Dilip Misra, Neelu,
 Sushma, Jitender, Anchal, Deepak, Akash and Naushad and two more
 persons were seen beating his son/deceased lying on the ground. Someone
 informed the police, and when police came to the spot, Dilip Misra, Anchal,
 Akash, ‗G' @ ‗V', Neelu and Sushma were apprehended, and his
 son/deceased was taken to BJRM Hospital in an auto by the police. He and

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 20 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 Rahul also reached the hospital where his statement (Ex.PW-11/A) was
 recorded by the police. On the same day, his son died at the hospital. He
 identified the body of his son (Ex.PW-11/C) and handed over his
 bloodstained clothes to the police (Ex.PW-11/B). In his cross-examination,
 he stated that he does not remember if Naushad pushed him on which he
 was confronted with his statement. He further stated that he does not
 remember who dragged his son out of the house and also that he tried to
 save his son, but he was not allowed to reach upto him. He further stated
 that Rahul Nishad did not try to save his son. 13. Rahul Nishad (PW-20) stated that he along with his fufa Ram Kishan
 and deceased were residing in Mukundpur, Delhi. Deceased used to supply
 RO water and he was working under him. Another boy named Rahul was
 also working with him. On 29th March 2017, at about 12:30-12:45 PM,
 Anchal, Akash and ‗G' came to the house of the deceased, Akash knocked
 the door and asked for opening the door and asked for a water bottle.
 Thereafter, these three boys entered the house and were followed by
 Deepak, Suraj, Guddu Passi, Naushad and some other boys whose names
 were not known to him. Anchal said ―tumne mere bhai ko mare ho, tumhe
 hum nai chhodenge‖. Anchal gave a knife blow to the deceased, and as the
 deceased ducked, the knife hit the head of the deceased. The deceased tried
 to run towards the staircase, but Anchal, Akash, Deepak, ‗G' and other
 persons gave beatings to deceased at the staircase. Ram Kishan tried to save
 the deceased, but Naushad pushed Ram Kishan, who fell down and became
 unconscious, and regained consciousness after 2-3 minutes. Thereafter, he
 along with Ram Kishan went to Aam Aadmi Chowk where the above- named persons including Sushma, Neelu and Dilip Misra were beating the
 deceased with kick and fist blows, and Dilip Misra was giving beatings with
 danda. Ram Kishan tried to save the deceased but was pushed aside.
 Someone made a call at no.100 and police came and took the deceased to
 the hospital in a TSR. He along with Ram Kishan also reached the hospital
 and after sometime, the deceased was declared dead. Thereafter, he along
 with Ram Kishan went to the police station where statement of Ram Kishan
 was recorded and his own statement was recorded after about one and a half
 month of the incident. In his cross-examination, he stated that he used to go
 in the street where Dilip, Neelu and Sushma were residing to deliver water. 14. Rahul, son of Ramesh (PW-21) deposed that on 29th March, 2017,
 after supplying water to the customers, he reached D-Block at about 12:00-
 12:15 PM where he was caught hold by Anchal and his associates and was
 beaten by them and was asked about the whereabouts of his
 employer/deceased. He told them that he was unaware about the
 whereabouts of the deceased, on which he was beaten and was taken
 towards the house of Anchal and was tied. Two sisters of Anchal also
 reached there along with other persons and all those persons together beat
 him. He stated that he was beaten with bricks and stones and sister of
 Anchal exhorted ―maar do isse‖. Anchal and his associates brought bandook
 and sword from the house to kill him and after Anchal put bandook at his
 head, he told them that Narender was at his house. PCR reached there and
 he became unconscious. The above-named persons ran away from the spot
 and PCR officials took him to the police station from where he was taken to
 the hospital and was got medically examined. He identified Anchal as the

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 22 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 person who caught him on the way and gave him kick and fist blows; he
 identified Akash as the person who gave kick and fist blows in his stomach;
 he identified Neelu and Sushma as the ones who beat him with bricks and
 stones and said ―isse jaan se maar do‖; he identified Deepak, Suraj, Jitender
 @ Guddu Passi who had beaten him while he was tied with rope; he
 identified Naushad as the person who gave fist blows on his stomach and
 was not allowed to spit blood and he also identified Dilip Mishra as the
 father of Anchal and as the person who threatened him not to depose about
 the incident to the police. He further stated that Dalip Mishra was already in
 the police station when he came back to the police station from the hospital. 15. ASI Ramesh Chand (PW-25) deposed that on 29th March, 2017, he
 was on emergency duty with HC Balu Palve. At about 12.50 PM, duty
 officer informed him that one person has been caught in Gali No.21, D
 Block on suspicion of murder. On receipt of this information, he and HC
 Balu Palve reached the spot where he came to know that a boy named Rahul
 was beaten by 10-12 persons and two female and Rahul were taken by PCR
 van to the police station. He along with Balu Palve returned to the police
 station where he came to know that Rahul was injured and he also met
 Neelu, Sushma and Dilip Mishra, who informed him that Rahul was
 involved in the murder of Chanchal. Thereafter Rahul was sent to the
 BJRM Hospital. When Rahul returned from the hospital, Sushma, Neelu
 and Dilip were not present at the police station. After some time, he
 received a call with respect to a quarrel at Gali No.8, D Block, Janta Vihar.
 He reached the spot where, Neelu, Sushma, Dilip Mishra and 5-7 associates
 were beating one person with lathis, dandas, kicks and fist blows. In the

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 23 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 meanwhile, patrolling staff of PS Bhalswa Dairy, HC Mahesh, HC Deepak,
 ASI Vinod, Ct. Ramesh and Ct. Rajeev also reached there and all the police
 staff saved the injured. Dalip Mishra and Akash were carrying dandas in
 their hands, Anchal was carrying knife in his hand, JCL ‗V' @ ‗G' was
 carrying saria and Sushma and Neelu were throwing bricks. He further
 stated that four-five boys ran away from the spot out of which one was
 carrying a knife. All the above-named persons were caught at the spot and
 their weapons were taken by the police. Name of the injured was revealed
 as Narender (later deceased) whom he took to BJRM Hospital in an auto.
 Crime team was called at the spot. Danda found in the possession of Akash
 was having bloodstains and one end of the same was having shape of
 square, which was seized vide memo Ex.PW-7/A. Danda found in
 possession of Dilip Mishra was having five rounds and was of three feet and
 three inches in length which was seized vide memo Ex.PW-6/A. Knife
 found in the possession of Anchal was having bloodstains, its sketch
 (Ex.PW-7/M) was prepared and it was seized vide memo Ex.PW-7/B.
 Blood, bloodstained earth and earth control were seized vide memo Ex.PW-
 7/D and Ex.PW-7/E. Three bricks stained with blood were also seized vide
 memo Ex.PW-7/G. After all the exhibits were seized, SHO and Inspector
 Satish also arrived at the spot and information was received that the
 deceased died at the hospital. 16. Insp. Satish Kumar (PW-26) deposed that on 29th March, 2017, he
 came to know about the incident in respect whereof five persons were
 apprehended by the police and that the injured had expired. Thereafter, he
 reached Gali No.8, near Aam Aadmi Chowk, Mukundpur where the incident

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 24 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 took place and met ASI Ramesh Chand who briefed him about the case and
 handed over the sealed pullandas. He formally arrested the five
 apprehended persons namely Dilip Mishra (Ex.PW-19/A1), Anchal
 (Ex.PW-19/B1), Akash (Ex.PW-19/C1), Sushma (Ex.PW-22/A) and Neelu
 (Ex.PW-22/B). Clothes of the appellants were found stained with blood
 which were seized vide memo Ex.PW-19/A4, Ex.PW-19/B4, Ex.PW-19/C4,
 Ex.PW-23/G and Ex.PW-23/H. He also recorded the disclosure statement of
 the appellants. On 25th April, 2017, he along with Ct. Ram Swaroop and
 Ramji Lal went to Rohini Court Complex on receipt of information
 regarding arrest of appellants Naushad, Suraj @ Tinda and Deepak @ Dutt.
 Pursuant to permission for interrogation from the concerned Court, he
 interrogated the three appellants and thereafter arrested them vide memo
 Ex.PW-5/D, Ex.PW-5/E and Ex.PW-5/F respectively. Thereafter, disclosure
 statements of the appellants Ex.PW-5/G, Ex.PW-5/H and Ex.PW-5/I were
 also recorded. On 6th May, 2017, he along with HC Karam Singh were led
 by the three appellants in front of Bhalswa Jheel, Golf Court towards jungle
 where there were bushes and the appellants produced one danda each which
 were used by them in the commission of offence. All the three dandas have
 bloodstains which were seized vide memo Ex.PW-23/A, Ex.PW-23/B and
 Ex.PW-23/C. On 10th May, 2017, pursuant to permission for interrogation,
 he interrogated appellant Jitender @ Guddu Passi and thereafter, arrested
 him vide memo Ex.PW-5/C and recorded his disclosure statement Ex.PW-
 26/E, in pursuance whereof on 13th May, 2017, appellant Jitender led the
 police to Bhalswa Jheel, towards Mukundpur, D Block, Kaccha Rasta and
 from the bushes, one knife was produced, which was sketched (Ex.PW-8/A)

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 25 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 and was seized vide memo Ex.PW-8/B. Thereafter, after completion of
 investigation, he filed the charge-sheet. 17. In his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. appellant Jitender @
 Guddu Passi denied his presence at the spot. He stated that the FIR was
 anti-time and dated and was falsely registered on the false statement given
 by Ram Kishan. He further stated that his photographs were taken by the
 police when he was arrested from his residence and was shown in the police
 station. He further stated that knife was planted on him to create false
 evidence. He stated that he was innocent and was falsely implicated in the
 present case and that at the time of incident he was not in Delhi and also that
 he was arrested from his house at Village Amora, District Azamgarh, U.P.
 by the police. 18. Appellants Akash, Deepak, Suraj @ Tinda and Naushad in their
 respective statements under Section 313 Cr.P.C. denied their presence at the
 spot. They further stated that weapon of offence i.e. danda was planted on
 them. They further stated that they were arrested from their house and
 further stated that the bloodstained clothes did not belong to them. They
 further stated that they denied TIP for the reason that their photographs were
 shown to the complainant at the police station. 19. Appellants Anchal, Dilip Mishra, Neelu and Sushma in their
 respective statements under Section 313 Cr.P.C. stated that Anchal was not
 present at the spot and was at his house and that Neelu, Sushma and Dilip
 were at the police station. Anchal also stated that he was apprehended from
 his house and not from the spot. Dilip Mishra, Neelu and Sushma stated
 that they were detained in the police station and were arrested from the

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 26 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 police station itself. They also denied recovery of any bloodstained clothes
 from them and stated that the same were planted on them. They further
 stated that the witnesses in the case were planted by the IO as their family
 used to pressurize the IO to expedite the arrest of culprits who had murdered
 Chanchal, on which the IO had threatened them that they would be
 implicated in false murder case. 20. As noted above, according to the case of prosecution three incidents
 took place on 29th March, 2017 and all the appellants were at least present in
 the first incident and the third incident thereby warranting their conviction
 under Section 302 read with 149 IPC . It is the case of the prosecution that
 the murder of Narender/ deceased took place to revenge the murder of
 Chanchal that took place in December 2016 and appellants Dilip Mishra,
 Neelu, Sushma, Anchal are the father, sisters and brother of deceased
 Chanchal respectively and the other accused are the associates of Anchal,
 the brother of Chanchal. Since Narender was one of the accused in the
 murder of Chanchal, the family members of deceased Chanchal along with
 their associates were on search of Narender and after spotting him
 committed the murder and before that Rahul (PW-21), an employee of
 Narender, was beaten to find out the whereabouts of Narender in the first
 incident. 21. The three incidents that are the basis of conviction in the present
 appeals are as under: 22. Before analyzing the evidence of the witnesses to ascertain the role of
 each of the appellants in the three incidents, it would be appropriate to note
 the chronology of events on 29th March, 2017 as per the case of the
 prosecution: in the latter's house at a. PW-11 Ram Kishan (Narender's
 (approx.) Gali No. 4. father)
 b. PW-20 Rahul Nishad (Narender's
 (Second Incident) cousin)
 Incident: (as per PW-20)
 After being brought a. As per the eyewitnesses PW-11 and
 out of this house, 20, the accused had visited the house of
 Narender was
 Narender at 12:30-12:45 pm.
 assaulted and dragged
 till Aam Aadmi b. Two Appellants namely Anchal and
 Chowk, Gali No. 8 Akash along with the JCL ‗V' @ ‗G'
 where he was given had entered first. rescued by the police. Appellants namely Deepak, Suraj,
 (Third Incident) Jitender @ Guddu Passi, Naushad. d. Three Appellants namely Dilip
 Mishra, Neelu and Sushma have not
 been named by the eyewitnesses in
 respect of the Second Incident. They
 have been named only in respect of the
 Third Incident. 3) 12:41 pm PCR call by Neelu Filed with chargesheet but not exhibited
 Kumari stating that
 Rahul, a murder in evidence. suspect has been
 caught by her. (First
 Incident) 4) 12:50 pm DD No. 37-B lodged Filed with chargesheet but not exhibited
 on information by

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 29 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 Chandan that Rahul, a in evidence. not find anyone at the Incident spot where they came to know
 said spot and came to that Rahul had been beaten by 10-12
 know that Rahul had persons including two females and that
 been taken to the PS Rahul had been taken to the PS by PCR
 by the PCR. van. c. He fairly admitted during cross- examination that when he and PW-7
 reached the First Incident spot, they had
 not seen any accused giving beating to
 any person. quarrel at Gali No. 8. a. Even though the DD No.43-B has not
 (Third Incident) been exhibited, PW-7 HC Balu Palve
 has deposed regarding the same in his
 examination-in-chief. b. The said DD shows that the Second
 Incident at Narender's house had
 already taken place before 01:39 pm.
 c. This corroborates the version given
 by eyewitnesses namely PW-11 and 20
 that the Second Incident took place at
 12:30-12:45 pm.
 d. Further, as already stated above, the
 three Appellants namely Dilip Mishra,
 Neelu and Sushma left the PS at about
 01:30 pm. Hence, their presence at the
 Third Incident, which is reported much
 later at 01:39 pm, cannot be doubted
 and the eyewitness testimony to this
 effect stands corroborated. Incident spot at about DDNo. 43-B by PW-25, they came to
 01:55 pm. know about the Third Incident. At the
 Almost same time, PW-25 received another call
 simultaneously, beat and they reached the Third Incident
 officials ncluding spot. PW-19 Mahesh also
 reached the said spot. c. Both PW-7 and 25 deposed that beat
 staff including PW-19 HC Mahesh also
 The police officials reached at the said spot. present at the spot d. PW-7 and 25 deposed that on
 witnessed the reaching the spot, they saw the the three
 Appellants giving Appellants namely Dilip Mishra, Neelu
 beatings to Narender. and Sushma and their 5-7 associates
 giving beatings to Narender. They overpowered e. PW-19 also deposed that on reaching
 and arrested the the spot, he witnessed 10-12 persons
 following accused giving beatings to Narender.
 persons at the spot: f. PW-7, 19 and 25 deposed that the
 • The three police officials present at the spot
 Appellants namely overpowered the Appellants/assailants
 Dilip Mishra, Neelu and rescued Narender. and Sushma. Brought by PW-25 to the Hospital. The statement of PW-11
 ASI Ramesh Chand. was recorded at the Hospital. 17) 04:50 pm Time of death of Death Report (Ex. PW-26/B)
 Narender. 18) 04:55 pm DD No. 29A Proved by PW-16 vide Ex. PW-16/A
 regarding death of
 Narender at Hospital. 19) 5:40 pm Rukka was drawn on a. Rukka(Ex. PW-16/B)
 statement of PW-11
 b. Statement of PW-11 (Ex. PW-11/A)
 Ram Kishan recorded
 at the Hospitals. 23. As regards the incident of assault on Rahul at Gali No.21 is
 concerned, it may be noted that the place of incident was D Block,
 Mukundpur outside the house of the appellants Dilip Mishra, Neelu,
 Sushma and Anchal. The injured Rahul (PW-21) who was an employee of
 deceased Narender stated that when he reached at D Block at about 12.00 - 12.15 PM he was caught hold by Anchal and his associates and beaten for
 asking him to reveal the whereabouts of his employer, Narender. He stated
 that he was unaware of the whereabouts of Narender, so he was beaten,
 taken towards the house of Anchal and tied over there. The two sisters of
 Anchal i.e. Neelu and Sushma also reached there along with other persons
 and all those persons assaulted him. He alleged that he was beaten by bricks
 and stones and sister of Anchal exhorted ―Maar do isee". Anchal and his
 associates brought bandook and swords from the warehouse to kill him, so,
 he told him that Narender was at his house. The witness claims that he
 became unconscious thereafter. It may be noted that for this offence stated
 to have been committed at 12.00 - 12.15 PM on 29th March, 2017, PCR call
 was made by Neelu Kumari at 12.41 PM that Rahul, a murder suspect, has
 been caught and DD No. 37-B was lodged on the said information. Though
 both these documents i.e. PCR call and the DD No. were filed with the
 charge-sheet but not exhibited in evidence by the prosecution. The reason of
 non-exhibition of these documents appears to be that the timings of this DD
 entry and the sequence of events thereafter would show that some of the
 appellants were still present at D Block, Mukundpur and thereafter in the
 Police station, when the second and third incident took place, thereby partly
 falsifying the case of the eye-witnesses of the prosecution. 24. Even though DD No. 37-B and the PCR call of Neelu Kumari have
 not been exhibited, however HC Balu Palve (PW-7) in his examination-in-
 chief itself stated that on 29th March, 2017 he was posted at PS Bhalaswa
 Dairy and on receipt of DD No. 37-B regarding apprehension of one person,
 suspected to be involved in murder, he along with ASI Ramesh reached at

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 36 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 gali No.21, D Block, where they came to know that injured Rahul was
 beaten by some persons and females and he had been taken to the Police
 Station. They then returned to the Police Station where they met injured
 Rahul. In the Police Station Neelu, Sushma and their father Dilip Mishra
 were also present and informed that the boy Rahul along with others was
 involved in the murder of Chanchal son of Dilip Mishra and brother of
 Neelu, Sushma and Anchal. On inquiry, Rahul informed that these two
 girls, their father, brother and 6 - 7 other persons doubted that he along with
 his employer Narender were involved in the murder of Chanchal and that
 they had given beating to him. Thus, this witness HC Balu Palve reached the
 spot i.e. D Block, gali No.21, Mukundpur on receipt of DD No. 37-B, which
 was lodged at 12.50 PM and thereafter returned back to the Police Station as
 the injured had been taken back to the Police Station. 25. Further, even ASI Ramesh Chand (PW-25) in his deposition stated
 that he was on emergency duty from 8.00 AM to 8.00 PM on 29th March,
 2017 along with HC Balu Palve. At about 12.50 PM duty officer informed
 them that one person has been caught in gali No.21, D Block, Mukundpur
 on suspicion of murder. On receipt of this information he reached the spot
 with HC Balu Palve and at the spot they came to know that a boy named
 Rahul was beaten by 10 - 12 persons and 2 females and Rahul with others
 had been taken by PCR to the Police Station. Thus, he along with HC Balu
 Palve returned to the Police Station where they came to know that Rahul son
 of Ramesh was injured and in the Police Station they met Neelu, Sushma,
 Dilip Mishra who informed that Rahul was involved in the murder of
 Chanchal. Thereafter, injured Rahul was sent to BJRM hospital with Ct. Chander Prakash. He further stated that when he sent Rahul with Ct.
 Chander Prakash, Neelu, Sushma and Dilip Mishra were present in PS,
 however when Rahul returned from the hospital, Sushma, Neelu and Dilip
 Mishra were not present in the Police Station. 26. MLC of Rahul son of Ramesh Ex.PW-18/B notes the arrival of Rahul
 in BJRM hospital on 29th March, 2017 at 14.06 hours. It is thus evident
 from the evidence of the two witnesses ASI Ramesh Chand and HC Balu
 Palve and the time of arrival on the MLC of
 Rahul at the hospital that at least till 1.50 pm on 29th March, 2017 when
 Rahul was sent to hospital, Dilip Mishra, Neelu and Sushma were present in
 the Police Station. It is relevant to note these timelines, so as to ascertain
 who are the accused involved in the second and third incident. 27. Undoubtedly, Rahul is an injured victim and his testimony is required
 to be given credence, however, in a case of an unlawful assembly when
 there are five or more persons attacking, it is difficult to ascertain and/or
 remember the role of each of the accused. Further the chance of inclusion
 of bystanders is also not ruled out. This witness stated that he was caught
 hold by Anchal and the others gave him beatings and that Akash gave him
 kicks and fist blows on his stomach. Neelu and Sushma gave beatings to
 him with bricks and stones and exhorted ―isee jaan se maar do‖. Further
 Deepak, Suraj, Jitender @ Guddu Passi gave him beatings when he was tied
 with rope. He also stated Naushad gave him fist blows on his stomach and
 he was not allowed to spit blood from his mouth. As regards Dilip Mishra,
 he stated that after the other accused gave him beating, Dilip Mishra
 threatened him not to depose to the Police about the incident, when he was

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 38 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 brought to the Police Station from hospital when Dilip Mishra was already
 in the Police Station. In his cross-examination he denied the suggestion that
 when he reached the Police Station from hospital, Dilip Mishra, Sushma and
 Neelu were present in the Police Station. According to his MLC Ex.PW-
 18/B an abrasion and tenderness over left side mandible region was
 observed with loosening of the lower incisor tooth. The matter was referred
 to dental opinion as well, wherein fracture of the mandible was found,
 though no loss of any tooth was found. It is evident that due to the fracture
 of mandible being proved, the injury to Rahul (PW-21) was grievous in
 nature. However, as claimed by Rahul that eight accused assaulted him, that
 too with bricks and stones besides kicks and fists blows is not fortified from
 his MLC. From the evidence of this injured witness it has been however
 proved that an unlawful assembly was formed to cause grievous injury to
 Rahul. 28. As noted from the statement of Rahul (PW-21), he was in D-Block
 when Anchal and his associates caught hold of him. However, to know the
 whereabouts of Narender, he was beaten and forcibly taken towards the
 house of Anchal. Though he states that Anchal and all his associates had
 assaulted him but considering the nature and number of injuries, as noted
 above, the role assigned to each of the accused is required to be looked into.
 Anchal has been specifically named as the one who brought the injured
 outside his i.e. Anchal's house and tied him there. Thereafter, two sisters of
 Anchal namely Neelu and Sushma reached along with the other persons.
 Who are the other persons along with the two sisters have also not been
 named at that stage. However, according to this witness, after he was tied,

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 39 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 he was beaten with bricks and stones. Anchal asked Rahul „where is your
 employer, who is involved in the murder of my brother‟. Sister of Anchal
 exhorted and said „isse maar do‟. Anchal and his associates brought
 bandook and sword from their house in order to kill him. It is claimed that
 Anchal put bandook on his head and under the fear, he told them that
 Narender was at his house. In his further examination-in-chief, Rahul said
 that Anchal was the person who caught hold of him on the way and gave
 kick and fist blows. He revealed Akash as the person who gave kicks and
 fist blows in his stomach. It is alleged that Neelu and Sushma gave beating
 to him with brick and stones and said „isse jaan se maar do‟. It is stated that
 Deepak, Suraj, Jitender @ Guddu Passi gave beating to him when he was
 tied with rope and as regards Naushad is concerned, it is stated that he gave
 him fist blows on his stomach and he was not allowed to spit the blood from
 mouth. The role assigned to Dilip Mishra is that, after giving beatings by
 above-named persons, Dilip Mishra threatened him not to depose to the
 police about the incident at the time when he was brought to the police
 station. Thus, no overt act is attributed to Dilip Mishra and Dilip Mishra is
 also not the person who was stated to be the part of unlawful assembly. The
 threat given at the police station not to tell the facts to the police cannot
 make Dilip Mishra liable for the offence of being a part of unlawful
 assembly for catching hold of this witness and beating him. Further, this
 witness also stated that when he was brought back to the police station from
 hospital, Dilip Mishra was still in the police station. Hence, Dilip Mishra
 cannot be held to have participated in any of the three incidents, as noted

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 40 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 above. Consequently, the impugned judgment of conviction and order on
 sentence qua Dilip Mishra are liable to be set aside. 29. As per the order on charge noted above, though all the nine appellants
 were charged for the offence punishable under Section 325 read with 149 IPC for causing grievous injury to Rahul (PW-21) by forming an unlawful
 assembly, however, only Dilip Mishra, Anchal, Neelu and Sushma have
 been convicted for the said offence by the impugned judgment. In the
 absence of any conviction of appellants Naushad, Aakash, Suraj @ Tinda,
 Jitender @ Guddu Passi and Deepak @ Datta as also the absence of a State
 Leave to Apeal in regard to the offence of beating of Rahul (PW-21) i.e. for
 offence punishable under Section 325 read with 149 IPC , no finding is
 required to be returned by this Court. Since in the first incident, at least five
 persons were involved and the injury to Rahul (PW-21) was grievous in
 nature, this Court finds no infirmity in the conviction of the appellants
 Anchal, Neelu and Sushma for offence punishable under Sections 147 , 148 and 325 read with 149 IPC . 30. As regards second incident of 29th March, 2017 is concerned
 regarding house trespass with preparation to cause hurt to Narender at gali
 No.4, for which appellant Anchal, Akash, Deepak @ Dutta, Naushad, Suraj
 @ Tinda and Jitender @ Guddu Passi have been convicted for offence
 punishable under Section 452 read with 149 IPC , the prosecution relies
 upon the testimony of two witnesses i.e. Ram Kishan (PW-11) the father of
 the deceased Narender and Rahul Nishad (PW-20) a relative of Narender
 who was working with him. 31. According to Ram Kishan (PW-11) at about 12.30 - 12.45 PM
 someone knocked the door, which was opened by Rahul (PW-20) and three
 persons were found standing at the door who asked for a bottle of 20 litre
 water as the deceased used to supply drinking water. Thereafter, all these
 three persons entered the house of his son Narender followed by 4 - 5 other
 boys including Anchal, whom he knew prior to the incident. Anchal stated
 ―tune mere bhai ko maara hai, aaj tujhe khatam kar denge‖. Anchal was
 carrying a knife in his hand and gave blow with the same on the neck of his
 son and his son ducked. He received injuries on the head. Ram Kishan
 claims V @ G (the juvenile) was carrying an iron rod and Akash was
 carrying danda and they also gave blows with the same to his son. The
 deceased tried to run towards staircase but he was restrained by 4--5 boys
 and was not allowed to escape. He rushed to save his son, but Naushad
 pushed him outside and he being heart patient became semi-unconscious.
 According to him, his son was beaten by bricks, piece of slab, danda, knife,
 sariya, etc. When he regained consciousness and asked about the
 whereabouts of his son, he along with Rahul @ Nishad reached at Aam
 Aadmi Chowk, where Dilip Mishra, Neelu, Sushma, Jitender, Anchal,
 Deepak, Akash and Naushad and two more persons were seen beating his
 son, who was lying on the ground. Someone informed the Police and when
 the Police came at the spot, Dilip Mishra, Anchal, Akash, the juvenile,
 Neelu and Sushma were apprehended and his son Narender was taken to
 BJRM hospital in an auto by the Police. On the same day his son died.
 Rahul Nishad (PW-20) a relative of Narender/ deceased and who was
 working with him also reiterated this version. 32. Thus, for the second incident, as per Ram Kishan, the three persons
 who first entered the house of Narender were Anchal, Akash and the
 juvenile V @ G. Thereafter, 4-5 other persons surrounded his son and they
 assaulted him. However, in cross-examination, this witness admitted that
 the house of Narender was admeasuring 72 square yards and in half
 portion thereof, one bedroom, kitchen, toilet, bathroom, staircase were
 constructed and in other half area, the water treatment plant was installed.
 He further admitted that the bedroom measuring 10 x 12 ft. had a double-
 bed, dressing table, almirah, sofa and chairs. He also admitted in the cross-
 examination that in the room of Narender measuring 10 x 12 ft. with all
 these items noted above, there were 10 persons, out of which, 7-8 persons
 were carrying dandas, sariyas and knives. Thus, according to this witness,
 besides the 7-8 assailants, 3 of them were there, so, 10-11 persons were in
 the room of 10 x 12 ft. with the double-bed, dressing table, almirah, sofa
 & chairs and they were all assaulting Narender. This version is highly
 improbable in view of the size of the room and hence, the testimony of this
 witness is not reliable. 33. Further, the third incident was in sequel to the second incident after
 Narender was removed from his house at gali No.4 and taken to gali No.8
 Aam Aadmi Chowk where also he was assaulted resulting in his death. 34. As regards third incident DD No. 43-B was lodged by Pradeep
 regarding quarrel at gali No.8. Copy of this DD entry though filed with the
 charge-sheet was not exhibited. However, ASI Ramesh Chand (PW-25) in
 his cross-examination admitted that at about 1.45 PM he received the call
 DD No. 43-B and at 1.53 PM they reached gali No.8 where the third

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 43 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 incident had taken place. It is thus evident when this witness left the Police
 Station, Neelu, Sushma and Dilip were present in the Police Station and in
 any case by 1.45 PM when the DD No.43-B was received the injured
 Narender had already been assaulted. Further, the time when Narender was
 assaulted can be gathered from his MLC Ex.PW/18/A as he was got
 admitted at the hospital on 29th March, 2017 at 2.25 PM and died at 4.15
 PM. As per the version of Ram Kishan (PW-11) itself his son Narender was
 taken to BJRM hospital in an auto by the Police. Thus, as Narender was
 admitted to the hospital at 2.25 PM, it is apparent that the third incident took
 place between 1.15 PM to 1.45 PM because by 1.45 PM the DD Entry
 No.43-B had been lodged. Even though the eye-witnesses i.e. Ram Kishan
 and Rahul Nishad stated that Dilip Mishra, Sushma and Neelu were present
 and assaulted Narender in the third incident at Aam Admi Chowk, however,
 this portion of their testimony needs to be discarded in view of the cogent
 evidence available that by at least 1.50 PM, these three appellants were
 present in the Police Station as per the testimony of Rahul (PW-21), HC
 Balu Palve and ASI Ramesh. 35. From the conjoint reading of the evidence as noted above, it is
 apparent that Dilip Mishra, Neelu and Sushma were not present in the third
 incident and the version of Ram Kishan and Rahul @ Nishad about their
 presence and of the police officers that they were arrested at the spot of
 third incident is a false and concocted. As Dilip Mishra, Neelu and Sushma
 were in the police station, they were also named for the third incident and
 arrested therein. Thus Dilip Mishra, Neelu and Sushma are liable to be

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 44 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 acquitted for the offence in relation to the third incident i.e. Sections 302 read with 149 IPC . 36. Coming to the role of the remaining accused besides Dilip Mishra,
 Neelu and Sushma in the second and third incidents, it may be noted that no
 public witness has been associated with the two incidents despite the
 locality being populated and thus this Court is left with the testimony of
 Ram Kishan (PW-11) the father of deceased and Rahul Nishad (PW-20) the
 cousin of the deceased, who are claimed to be the eye-witnesses. 37. Learned counsel for the defence have claimed that Ram Kishan was
 not a resident of Mukundpur but residing in Trilokpuri and could not have
 all of a sudden reached his son's place. This Court finds merit in the
 submission of learned counsels for the defence as not only the version of
 Ram Kishan is false on the counts as noted above, it is also liable to be
 discarded as despite his not coming in contact with his son on both the
 occasions, he handed over his blood stained clothes, which seizure memo
 (Ex.PW-11/B) was not signed by Ram Kishan. 38. However Rahul Nishad (PW-20) was a natural witness as he was not
 only the cousin of Narender but he was also working with him by supplying
 RO waters, thus, his presence at the spot was natural. In his deposition
 Rahul Nishad (PW-20) has spoken about the second and third incident and
 claims that at about 12.30 - 12.45 PM on 29th March, 2017 Anchal, Akash
 and the juvenile came to the house of Narender. Akash knocked the door of
 Narender and asked for opening the door as he required water. He opened
 the door and Akash asked for the water bottle. As he was going towards
 Narender, Anchal, Akash and the juvenile entered the house of Narender

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 45 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 and they were followed by other boys, namely, Deepak, Suraj, Guddu Pasi,
 Naushad and others whose name he did not know. Firstly Anchal, Akash
 and the juvenile entered the room of Narender. Anchal said ―tumne mere
 bhai ko mara hai, tumhe hum nahi chhodenge‖. Anchal gave the blow of
 knife on Narender, who ducked the blow of knife which hit his head.
 Narender ran towards staircase when Anchal, Akash, Deepak, juvenile and
 other named persons gave beatings to Narender at staircase. His uncle Ram
 Kishan tried to save but Naushad pushed Ram Kishan, so he fell
 unconscious. He tried to save his uncle Ram Kishan and after he regained
 consciousness after 2-3 minutes, Ram Kishan asked him where was
 Narender taken. Thereafter, he along with Ram Kishan asked public
 persons where Narender was taken and reached Aam Aadmi Chowk. At the
 Aam Aadmi Chowk public persons had gathered. According to Rahul -
 Nishad, Sushma, Neelu, Dilip Mishra were giving beatings with kicks and
 fist blows to Narender. Dilip Mishra was giving beatings to Narender with
 danda. Ram Kishan tried to save but he was pushed. At the same time
 Police reached there, as someone had made a call at 100 number and the
 Police took the injured Narender in a TSR to the hospital. He along with his
 uncle Ram Kishan reached at the hospital at around 2.30 PM and at about
 4.15 PM Narender expired in the hospital. He admitted that his statement
 under Section 161 Cr.P.C. was recorded after one and a half month after the
 incident as he went to Trilokpuri and from there he went to his native place. 39. Version of this witness Rahul Nishad, as noted above, is full of
 contradictions and concoctions. Further improvements even in his
 statement recorded under Section 161 CrPC after one and a half month can

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 46 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 also be not ruled out. From the evidence of ASI Ramesh Chand and HC
 Balu Palve as also the injured victim Rahul, son of Ramesh (PW-21),
 Sushma, Neelu and Dilip Mishra were in the Police Station when till ASI
 Ramesh Chand left on receipt of DD No. 43-B at about 1.50 PM and thus
 would not have been present at the third incident at gali No.8. Further, as
 per the version of Rahul Nishad though Anchal was carrying a knife and
 when he gave a blow to Narender in the second incident, Narender ducked
 resulting in an injury on the head of Narender. However, as per the MLC of
 Narender Ex.PW-18/A the injuries on Narender were multiple contused
 laceration wounds over the head, knee, chin with swelling all over the body.
 Further, as per the opinion of Doctor the injuries i.e. contused laceration
 wounds or contusions were sustained as a result of blunt force trauma to the
 head. No injury has been opined to be caused by a sharp edged weapon.
 Further, appellant Anchal Mishra was apprehended at spot and as per the
 prosecution case his clothes, T-Shirt and jeans which he was wearing were
 found to be bloodstained. Though as per the disclosure statement of Anchal
 Mishra it is stated that knife in his hand was seized by the Police at the spot,
 however no seizure memo thereof has been exhibited nor does the knife
 form part of the personal search memo of Anchal. One rusty metallic knife
 was sent to the FSL, which was termed as Ex.3. Further one more rusty
 knife having metallic blade and wooden handle was also received at the FSL
 exhibited as Ex.1A. However, no blood was detected either on Ex.3 or
 Ex.1A thereby connecting the injuries caused to the deceased by the said
 knives. It is thus apparent that injuries though multiple were give only by
 danda blows. 40. As per the DNA analysis carried out, DNA profile generated from the
 bloodstained gauze cloth piece of deceased Ex.'21A' was found to be
 similar with the DNA profile generated from the clothes of Dilip Mishra
 ‗15a', ‗15b'; clothes of Anchal Mishra ‗16a', ‗16b'; lady's shirt of accused
 Sushma ‗17'; Frock of Neelu ‗18', clothes of juvenile ‗19a', ‗19b'; shirt of
 complainant Ram Kishan ‗20' and clothes of deceased ‗21a', ‗21b', ‗21c'.
 As noticed, the blood on the shirt of complainant Ram Kishan was not
 possible as it is not the case of Ram Kishan that when the injury was
 inflicted arising out of the second incident to his son, or at the time of third
 incident, he caught hold of his son or saved him for the reason he stated that
 on both the occasions when he tried to save him he was pushed. This
 witness also did not take Narender to the hospital and reached hospital only
 after Narender had been admitted in the hospital. Further as noted above,
 Dilip Mishra, Neelu and Sushma were in the police station when the second
 and third incident took place. Hence, this Court is not inclined to place
 reliance on this piece of evidence relied by the prosecution. 41. As regards second incident is concerned, from the testimony of Rahul
 Nishad only three persons have been identified to have entered the house of
 Narender in the first instance namely Anchal Mishra, Akash and the
 juvenile as they were the first ones to enter. Further, admittedly Rahul
 Nishad and Ram Kishan reached the spot much later for the third incident
 after the PCR call had already been made and police had arrived. Though
 this witness in his statement states that in the second incident subsequently
 Deepak, Suraj, Guddu @ Passi, Naushad and other boys also entered and
 Naushad pushed Ram Kishan; besides Anchal, Akash and juvenile other

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 48 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 persons gave beatings to Narender, however in view of the fact that
 Naushad, Guddu @ Passi, Suraj @ Tinda and Deepak @ Dutta were not
 arrested at the spot, this Court is required to look for corroboration in
 respect of their involvement. As per the case of the prosecution all these
 four appellants were arrested subsequently. It is evident from the evidence
 of the Police Officers that when they reached the spot, the incident of
 assaulting Narender was going on and there is no averment that the four
 appellants Suraj @ Tinda, Jitender @ Guddu Passi, Deepak @ Dutta and
 Naushad had run away. Further, the manner in which these three appellants
 have been arrested by HC Ajay Kumar of Crime Branch, Prashant Vihar on
 25th April, 2017 and thereafter leading to the recoveries of three dandas
 from the same place at the same time at the instance of three appellants also
 creates a doubt on the recovery. The disclosure statements of these three
 appellants, namely, Naushad, Suraj and Deepak have been exhibited as
 Ex.PW-5/G, PW-5/H and PW-5/I respectively. 42. Appellant Naushad, Deepak and Suraj @ Tinda were arrested by the
 Crime Brach official HC Ajay on 24th April, 2017 from Service Road, near
 All Heavens banquet hall, Wazirpur Indl. Area vide arrest memo Ex.PW-
 13/A, C and E respectively. Disclosure statements of Naushad, Deepak and
 Suraj @ Tinda (Ex.PW-13/G, H and I) were also recorded and the
 appellants stated that they could get the dandas used by them at the time of
 incident and the clothes worn by them. Thereafter, Naushad, Deepak and
 Suraj @ Tinda were formally arrested by IO/Insp. Satish when the
 appellants were produced before the Ld. Magistrate at Rohini Court vide
 memo Ex.PW-5/D, F and E. Another disclosure statement (Ex.PW5/G) of

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 49 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 appellant Naushad was recorded by Insp. Satish, wherein he stated that
 while running away from the spot, he threw the danda at the empty road at
 Gali No.8, Mukundpur. Similarly, in their disclosure statements (Ex.PW-5/I
 and H), appellant Deepak and Suraj @ Tinda respectively, also stated that
 while running away, they threw the dandas used by them at an empty plot.
 Pursuant thereto, the appellants Naushad, Deepak and Suraj @ Tinda got
 recovered the dandas from the bushes at Golf Course, opposite to Bhalswa
 Jheel, which was seized vide memo Ex.PW-23/B, A and C. It is not clear as
 to when dandas were thrown at the empty road and empty plot, how they
 reached inside the bushes. Thus the alleged recoveries of dandas being from
 open road and plot, and that too, after 27 days cannot be relied upon. 43. Further, dealing with joint disclosures and joint recoveries, Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the decision reported as AIR 2005 SC 3820 State Vs.
 Navjot Sandhu held: 44. Appellant Jitender @ Guddu Passi was arrested by Crime Branch
 official HC Sohan Lal (PW-12) on 9th May, 2017 from Village Amora,
 District Azamgarh, UP vide arrest memo Ex.PW-12/B. His disclosure
 statement Ex.PW-12/E was also recorded and the appellant stated that he
 could get recovered the knife used by him and the clothes worn by him at
 the time of incident recovered. Thereafter, he was formerly arrested by
 IO/Insp. Satish when the appellant was produced before the Duty Magistrate
 at Gulabi Bagh vide arrest memo Ex.PW-5/C. Another disclosure statement
 Ex.PW-6/C of the appellant was recorded by IO/Insp. Satish wherein the
 appellant stated that while running away from the spot, he threw the knife
 used by him at the Bhalswa Jheel Jungle. Pursuant thereto, the appellant got
 recovered the knife from the Bhalswa Jheel Jungle vide site plan Ex.PW-
 26/F and sketch (Ex.PW-8/A) of the said knife was prepared. 45. The dandas recovered at the instance of the appellants Naushad,
 Deepak and Suraj @ Tinda and the knife recovered at the instance of
 appellant Jitender @ Guddu Passi were sent for FSL examination, as per
 which no blood was found on these exhibits. Further, there is no evidence
 that these dandas and the knife were sent to the doctor conducting the
 postmortem examination for his opinion. Hence, the purported recoveries of
 dandas and knives cannot be used in evidence against appellants Naushad,
 Deepak, Suraj and Jitender @ Guddu Passi. 46. Thus, from the evidence on record, it is clear that the appellants
 Naushad, Deepak, Suraj @ Tinda and Jitender @ Guddu Passi were not
 arrested from the spot and there is no corroborative evidence to support the
 case of the prosecution qua these four appellants and therefore, benefit of
 doubt must be given to these appellants. Conclusion 47. In terms of the aforesaid discussion, this Court concludes as follows: The sentence of Neelu and Sushma is modified to the period
 already undergone. They be released forthwith, if not required
 in any other case. Crl.A.1082/2018 and Crl.A.1086/2018 are
 accordingly disposed of. c) Appellants Naushad, Deepak @ Dutta, Suraj @ Tinda and
 Jitender @ Guddu Passi are entitled to benefit of doubt in the
 absence of any firm evidence establishing their role in the
 commission of the offences in the second and third incidents
 for which they were convicted. The impugned judgment
 convicting them for offences punishable under Sections 147 , 148 , 302 / 149 and 452 / 149 IPC and the order on sentence to this
 extent are set aside. The appellants Naushad, Deepak @ Dutta,
 Suraj @ Tinda and Jitender @ Guddu Passi are thus, acquitted
 and they be released forthwith, if not required in any other
 case. Crl.A.1230/2018, Crl.A.268/2019, Crl.A.76/2019 and
 Crl.A.798/2019 are accordingly disposed of. d) From the evidence on record, as regards the offence punishable
 under Section 325 / 149 IPC, it is evident that the appellants
 Neelu, Sushma and Anchal and juveniles were present and
 some unknown persons were also involved, and thus, there is

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 54 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA
 2023:DHC:4294-DB

 no infirmity in conviction of appellant Anchal for offences
 punishable under Section 147 IPC, Section 148 IPC and Section 325 / 149 IPC and thus, the conviction of appellant
 Anchal qua these offences is upheld. e) As regards the second and third incident, i.e. for offences
 punishable under Section 452 / 149 IPC and Section 302 / 149 IPC, the prosecution has failed to conclusively establish the
 presence of five or more persons so as to attract Section 149 IPC. Thus, the conviction of the appellants Akash and Anchal
 for offences punishable under Sections 452 / 149 IPC is
 modified to offence punishable under Sections 452 / 34 IPC and
 the conviction for offences punishable under Sections 302 / 149 IPC is modified to offence punishable under Sections 302 / 34 IPC. However, the sentence as awarded by the learned Trial
 Court will remain the same. Crl.A.1088/2018 and
 Crl.A.1096/2019 are accordingly disposed of. 48. Copy of the judgment be uploaded on the website of this Court and be
 also communicated to the Superintendent Tihar Jail for updation of records,
 intimation to the appellants and compliance. (MUKTA GUPTA)
 JUDGE

 (POONAM A. BAMBA)
 JUDGE
 JUNE 26, 2023/‗vn/ga'

 CRL.A. 1087/2018 & connected appeals Signature Not Verified Signature Not VerifiedPage 55 of 55 Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:JUSTICE MUKTA By:POONAM BAMBA
GUPTA