1) The date of commission of offence : 05.05.2022 2) The name of the complainant : Ct. Bijender 3) The name & parentage of accused : Nirmal Gautam s/o Sh. Dev Dutt 4) Offence complained of : Section 12 / 9 / 55 Delhi Public
 Gambling Act. 1. The case of the prosecution against the accused Nirmal Gautam is
that on 05.05.2022 at about 8.20 pm. Gautam Gali, Kabir Basti, Malka Ganj,
Delhi, he was found placing bets by selling satta slips, pen, note pad and
Rs.2140/- were recovered from accused Nirmal Gautam thereby alleged to
have committed offence under punishable under Section 12 of Delhi Public
Gambling Act. 2. After investigation, charge-sheet was filed against the accused.
The copy of charge-sheet was supplied to the accused in compliance of Section
207 Cr. P.C. Thereafter, notice was served upon the accused under Section 12 Delhi Public Gambling Act to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 3. In support of its version, prosecution has examined two witnesses.
accused did not disputed the factum as to the registration of the present FIR.
After conclusion of prosecution evidence, statement of accused was recorded
separately wherein he claimed to be innocent and denied the allegations against
him. accused opted not to lead any DE. 4. I have heard Ld. APP for State and Ld. Counsel for accused. I have
perused the record. 5. The testimonies of prosecution witnesses are hereby discussed, in
brief, as follows:- 6. It is the cardinal principle of Criminal Justice delivery system that
the prosecution has to prove the guilt of accused person beyond reasonable
doubts. No matter how weak the defence of accused is but, the golden rule of
the Criminal Jurisprudence is that the case of the prosecution has to stand on its
own leg. 7. As per the prosecution version, there is recovery witness namely
HC Bijender Kumar deposrd in his testimony that on 05.05.2022, he was on
patrolling duty along with Ct. Sandeep in the beat area, however, no DD entry
has been brought on record by the prosecution. For knowing the importance of the DD entry of arrival and
departure of the police officials from the police station, I have perused Chapter
22 Rule 49 of Punjab Police Rules, 1934 which reads as under: Note: The term Police Station will include all places such as Police Lines and
 Digitally
 signed by
 CHATINDER
 CHATINDER SINGH
 SINGH Date: The number of the said DD entry made in Register No.II has not even been
brought on judicial record. In my opinion prosecution was under an obligation
to prove on record, the above said DD entry vide which above said police
officials had left the PS for FIR No. 277/2022 patrolling duty, so as to prove the
possibility of availability of prosecution witnesses at the place of apprehension
of the accused. In the facts and circumstances of the case, the prosecution
ought to have proved the DD entry by which the above said police officials had
left the PS so as to inspire the confidence regarding their availability / presence
at the place of apprehension of the accused. 9. At this juncture, it would be relevant to refer to a case law reported
as Rattan Lal versus State 1987 (2) Crimes 29 the Hon'ble Delhi High Court
wherein it has been observed that: 12. In the case of Hem Raj v. State of Haryana AIR 2005 SC 2110, it
has been observed that: In a case law reported as Anoop Joshi Vs. State 1999(2) C.C.
Cases 314 (HC), Hon'ble High Court of Delhi has observed as under: 13. Further, the seal after use was not handed over to any independent
person. Seal after use was handed over to Ct. Sandeep only. It appears that no
efforts were made to hand over the seal after use to independent person. I am
conscious of precedent laid down by Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Safiullah v.
State , 1993 (1) RCR (Criminal) 622, that: The Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court also held in Ramji Singh v. State of
Haryana , 2007 (3) RCR (Criminal) 452, that
 "7. The very purpose of giving seal to an independent
 person is to avoid tampering of the case property." There was the space for tempering of the case property as the case
property was lying in the same malkhana where the police officials having the
possession of seal posted. Moreover, no seal handing over memo was brought
on record by the prosecution to support their version. Hence, considering the Digitally signed by CHATINDER SINGH CHATINDER Date: SINGH 2025.05.07
 19:14:45
 +0530

Cr.C No.13436/2022 PS Subzi Mandi FIR No.277/2022 State Vs. Nirmal Gautam 9/12
 legal position, the benefit of doubt should be given to the accused. 14. Moreover, the satta slips and diaries were not sent to FSL for
fingerprint examination. The reason for that lapse was not explained by the
prosecution. In the judgment titled as " S.L.Goswami v. State of M.P " reported as 1972
CRI.L.J.511(SC) the Hon'ble Supreme Court held:- 15. There are other inconsistencies on the record which have not been
explained. According to the deposition of prosecution witnesses, the case
property was first seized and then rukka was prepared for registration of FIR.
Thus, according to the witnesses FIR was registered after seizure of recovery
memo. However, the seizure memo bears the FIR number. At the time of the
seizure, FIR number was not available and therefore, FIR no. could not have
figured on the seizure memo. The existence of FIR no. on seizure memo
suggests that the seizure memo was prepared after the registration of FIR and is Digitally signed by CHATINDER CHATINDER SINGH
 SINGH Date: 16. The onus and duty to prove the case against the accused was upon
the prosecution and the prosecution must establish the charge beyond
reasonable doubt. It is also a cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence that if
there is a reasonable doubt with regard to the guilt of the accused the accused is
entitled to benefit of doubt resulting in acquittal of the accused. Reference may
also be made to the judgment titled as Nallapati Sivaiah v. Sub Divisional
Officer, Guntur reported as VIII(2007) SLT 454(SC). 17. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the considered view
that prosecution has failed to prove the guilt of the accused Nirmal Gautam
beyond reasonable doubt. I hold that the accused Nirmal Gautam are not found
guilty of the charge framed against him and he is acquitted of the charge Digitally signed by CHATINDER CHATINDER SINGH
 SINGH Date: 18. Bail bond of accused and his surety be discharged after six months
in view of the Section 437 A CrPC/ Section 482 BNSS. After compliance file
be sent to record room. Case property be confiscated to State as per rules and
same be destroyed.