. Thereafter cognizance was taken by the learned

 Chief Judicial Magistrate on 02.09.2019 of the aforesaid

 offences against this appellant and his wife who are named in the

 FIR. Subsequently charges were framed by the trial court against

 the appellant and his wife, as has been mentioned hereinabove.
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 8/27 7. Five witnesses came to be examined at the trial by

 the prosecution to establish the charges against the appellant and

 the co-accused. PW-1 is the husband of the prosecutrix whereas

 PW-2 is the prosecutrix herself. PW-3, at the relevant point of

 time was posted as Incharge Technical Cell in Confidential

 Section of the office of Superintended of Police, Saharsa on the

 date of registration of the FIR. He had taken out the printout of

 WhatsApp messages which contained threatening and

 blackmailing messages which he had handed over to the

 Investigating Officer. PW-4 is the IO whereas PW-5 is the

 Magistrate, who had recorded the statement of the prosecutrix

 under Section 164 of the CrPC and proved the statement so

 recorded, which came to be marked as Exhibit-7. The

 prosecution, in addition to the oral evidence of the witnesses,

 brought on record following documentary evidences in support

 of the charge :- 2. Statement recorded under Section 164 of the Exhibit-2 CrPC of the prosecutrix 3. Endorsement of the Officer-in-Incharge of Exhibit-3
 the Police Station on the written report 4. Search/Seizure list of mobile phones from Exhibit-4
 the possession of the appellant 5. Search/Seizure list regarding seizure of Exhibit-4/1
 mobile phones from the possession of the co- accused, i.e., the appellant's wife
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 9/27 6. Charge-sheet Exhibit-5
 7 Case diary Exhibit-6
 8 Signature of PW-5 on the statement recorded Exhibit-7
 under Section 164 of the CrPC 8. Further, following material exhibits were produced

 at the trial:- 9. After closure of the evidence of the prosecution's

 witnesses the trial court examined the appellant and the co-

 accused under Section 313 of the CrPC so as to give them an

 opportunity to explain the incriminating circumstances which

 emerged against them based on the evidence of the prosecution's

 witnesses. We consider it beneficial to reproduce the

 circumstances brought to the notice of the appellant which,

 according to the trial court, were incriminating in nature against

 the appellant:- 10. The defence got examined four witnesses at the

 trial to make out a case that the appellant was working on

 temporary basis at Gaya under Power Grid Corporation and for

 making his employment permanent, the husband of the

 prosecutrix had demanded some money from him which the

 appellant had paid after borrowing loans from his friends and

 relatives. Since, despite the assurance, the appellant's

 employment could not be made permanent, on persistent

 demand, the prosecutrix/her husband had returned part of the

 said amount through bank transactions. 11. As has been noticed hereinabove, the trial court,

 after having appreciated the evidence adduced at the trial has

 convicted the appellant of the charge punishable under Sections

 376 and 384 of the IPC and has acquitted him of rest of the

 charges. 12. Mr. Sanjeev Kumar, learned counsel appearing on

 behalf of the appellant has submitted that there are material

 contradictions in the narration of the prosecution's case in the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 11/27 written report, which is the basis for registration of FIR, her

 statement recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC and her

 evidence adduced at the trial. He has argued that the prosecutrix

 has been found to be untruthful in her deposition on oath at the

 trial on the point as to who had typed the written report. He

 contends that it is evident from her deposition that the

 prosecutrix was incapable of typing on computer, inasmuch as,

 she was not knowing as to which buttons on the keyboard were

 to be pressed for typing her own name in Hindi, though she

 deposed at the trial that the written report was typed by her on a

 computer. He accordingly contends that the prosecutrix is not a

 sterling witness and conviction based on the sole evidence of the

 prosecutrix uncorroborated by any other evidence, for offence

 punishable under Section 376 of the IPC, is not at all sustainable.

 He has further argued that it is the prosecution's case that the

 prosecutrix was blackmailed and exploited under the threat of

 making the photos and videos viral. The said photos or videos

 were never produced by the prosecution at any stage. He further

 submits that the place of the alleged occurrence of rape was

 located at Gaya, according to the prosecutrix where she was

 residing with her family in a multistorey building in which many

 families resided. It is evident that the said place of occurrence
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 12/27 was not even visited by the Investigating Officer, much less the

 same having been proved at the trial. On the point of conviction

 of the appellant for the offence punishable under Section 384 of

 the IPC he has submitted that the learned trial court has referred

 to two transactions each of Rs. 50,000/- deposited in the account

 of the appellant. He contends that the said amounts were

 deposited in the account of the appellant as part re-payment of

 the amount which the husband of the prosecutrix had taken an

 assurance that the appellant's employment would be made

 permanent. He further submits that it is highly improbable that

 someone will obtain extortion money through bank transactions.

 He further argues that in order to convict the appellant for the

 offence punishable under Section 384 of the IPC the trial court

 has relied on the screenshots of the WhatsApp messages which

 form part of the FIR. He submits that the trial court ought not to

 have taken in evidence the said messages/screenshots in the

 absence of non-compliance of the requirement of Section 65B of

 the Indian Evidence Act. An argument has also been made that

 the bank statements were obtained on 29.06.2019 which have

 been made part of the FIR registered on 28.06.2019. He

 contends that the bank's statements obtained on a date

 subsequent to lodging of the FIR could not form part of the FIR
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 13/27 and, therefore, the entire case of the prosecution becomes

 unreliable. 13. Mr. Dilip Kumar Sinha, learned Additional Public

 Prosecutor appearing on behalf of the State has defended the

 finding recorded by the trial court. He has submitted that there is

 no reason why the prosecutrix would make false accusation

 against the appellant of such nature at the risk of her social

 reputation, prestige and dignity. He contends that the minor

 inconsistencies in the statement of the prosecutrix may not be a

 reason for this Court to interfere with the finding of conviction

 since she has been substantially consistent in her evidence and

 the fact that the prosecutrix was being constantly blackmailed

 and successfully exploited under the threat of making

 inappropriate photographs and videos viral, corroborated by the

 bank transaction, do not render the finding of conviction

 recorded by the trial court untenable. He has submitted that the

 trial court upon due appreciation of evidence on record has

 rightly convicted the appellant of the offences under Sections

 376 and 384 of the IPC. 14. Mr. Shashank Shekhar Sinha, learned counsel

 representing the informant has submitted that there is no material

 discrepancy in the evidence of the prosecutrix which is
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 14/27 trustworthy and is of sterling quality. He contends that the texts

 of WhatsApp messenger indicating threatening and blackmailing

 of the prosecutrix by the accused go to prove that the

 prosecutrix was put in the fear of harm to deliver money which

 falls within the definition of extortion under Section 383 of the

 IPC. He has argued that the trial court ought to have framed

 charge for the offence punishable under Section 506 of the IPC

 also, there being sufficient material for the same and, therefore, a

 de novo trial or adducement of additional evidence is required.

 He further submits that the three seized mobile phones of the

 accused persons were exhibited as Exhibit-1, Exhibit-2 and

 Exhibit-3 and seizure-list of the mobile phones by way of

 Exhibit-4 and Exhibit-4/1 respectively. The analysis of Call

 Detail Record (CDR) and analysis of Customer Acquisition

 Form (CAF) including the printout of the text of WhatsApp

 messages were handed over to the IO by PW-3 but the same

 were not duly appreciated by the trial court. He has argued that

 the primary evidence (mobile phones) from which electronic

 messages i.e. WhatsApp messages originated in the original

 form and the same were preserved and available for inspection

 of learned trial court, there was no requirement to prove the

 WhatsApp text in accordance with the provisions of Section 65B
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 15/27 of the Indian Evidence Act . He has relied on the Supreme

 Court's decision in case of Anvar P.V. vs. P.K. Basheer & Ors. reported in (2014) 10 SCC 473. He has argued that non-

 production of certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act

 at an earlier stage is not fatal and it is a curable defect. He

 contends that the persons facing trial do not deny their

 connection with the mobile numbers used in the said mobile

 phones. He has emphatically argued that the analysis report

 prepared by PW-3 is a public document in terms of Section 35 of

 the Evidence Act and, therefore, the court should presume

 genuineness of the said document under Section 80 of the

 Evidence Act. He has also argued that the trial court has rightly

 noted absence of any denial as regards transfer of a sum of Rs.

 50,000/- by PW-1 in the account of the appellant. As no question

 or suggestion was put to PW-1, it amounts to admission that the

 said amount was received in the account and some other amount

 was received by him in cash. 15. Written notes of arguments have been submitted

 on behalf of the appellant and the informant, which are there on

 record. 16. We have carefully perused the impugned judgment

 and order of the trial court as well as the lower court's records.
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 16/27 We have given our thoughtful consideration to the rival

 submissions advanced on behalf of the parties. We have also

 perused the written notes of arguments submitted on behalf of

 the appellant and the prosecutrix. 17. In the present case, the appellant has been

 convicted of the offences punishable under Sections 376 and 384 of the IPC and has been acquitted of other charges which were

 framed against him. In our considered view, the foremost

 question which requires consideration in the present appeal is as

 to whether the prosecutrix can be said to be trustworthy and

 reliable and she can be said to be sterling witness of a very high

 quality and caliber, whose version, for the said reason, cannot be

 said to be unassailable; in peculiar facts and circumstances of the

 present case, for sustaining the appellant's conviction under Section 376 of the IPC. 18. It is her own disclosure in the FIR that the

 occurrence had taken place at Gaya when her husband was

 posted at Gaya. She disclosed in her written report that she had

 become unconscious after taking tea given by the appellant. On

 regaining consciousness she realised that some wrong was

 committed with her, apparently during the state of her

 unconsciousness. On the next day, the appellant showed to the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 17/27 prosecutrix her inappropriate photographs and videos. Under the

 threat of making them viral on social media, according the

 prosecutrix, the appellant raped her again, prepared photographs

 and videos and continued doing so repeatedly during subsequent

 days. In the meanwhile, he would extort money from the

 prosecutrix. It is also her disclosure that she had given a sum of

 Rs. 30,000/- to the appellant when he was going to his native

 place. The FIR is totally silent on the date or month when the

 first occurrence had taken place. From what has been alleged in

 the FIR, it appears that there was nothing to the fore till the

 husband of the prosecutrix was transferred from Gaya to Saharsa

 and the appellant had gone to his native place in West Bengal.

 What is culled out from the FIR is that after the appellant

 reached his native place, he and his wife both started

 blackmailing the prosecutrix under the threat of making the

 photographs and videos viral, whereafter certain amount was

 transferred in the account of the appellant from Saharsa. 19. It has been rightly pointed out by the learned

 counsel for the appellant that the story of the prosecutrix as

 narrated in the FIR is materially different from what she alleged

 in her statement recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC.

 Whereas in the FIR the prosecutrix alleged that after the first
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 18/27 occurrence of rape committed by the appellant when she was

 unconscious, the prosecutrix was raped multiple times and

 thereafter the prosecutrix was compelled to have sexual

 intercourse with the appellant under the threat of making the

 photographs and videos viral; there is no such allegation in the

 statement recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC. There is no

 allegation in the statement made under Section 164 of the CrPC

 that after the first alleged act of the appellant the prosecutrix was

 subsequently compelled to agree for sexual intercourse under the

 threat of making the photographs and video viral. In her

 deposition at the trial, the prosecutrix reiterated what he had

 disclosed in the FIR of commission of rape multiple times by the

 appellant after the first occurrence under the threat of making the

 photographs and video viral. She alleged that the appellant had

 videographed subsequent events of sexual intercourse which the

 appellant had committed. She also deposed that she had paid the

 appellant two times sums of Rs. 50,000/- and subsequently Rs.

 30,000/-. Thereafter he had gone to his native place, in the

 meanwhile, the husband of the prosecutrix was transferred to

 Saharsa and from Saharsa sums of Rs. 50,000/- were deposited

 in two accounts of the appellant maintained in State Bank of

 India and Punjab National Bank. The appellant would further
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 19/27 make demand of payment of Rs. 3 lakhs whereafter she had

 decided to commit suicide. When her husband had noticed the

 prosecutrix weeping, he enquired from her, whereafter she

 explained to her husband the entire fact. She further deposed that

 after knowing these facts the husband of the prosecutrix also

 attempted to convince the appellant and his wife that what they

 were doing was not correct. They, however, did not give any

 heed to the advice of her husband (PW-1) and told him that by

 26.06.2019 he must pay a sum of Rs. 3 lakhs, whereafter they

 met the Superintendent of Police, explained to him all the

 circumstances and got the FIR registered. 20. It is also worthwhile mentioning that in the FIR the

 prosecutrix alleged that the wife of the appellant (co-accused)

 was demanding a sum of Rs. 3 lakhs to be deposited in her

 account by 26.06.2019, in her statement under Section 164 of the

 CrPC she described the said amount to be four lakhs. In her

 evidence at the trial, the prosecutrix deposed that a sum of Rs. 3

 lakhs was being demanded by the co-accused to be deposited in

 her account by 26.06.2019. 21. In her cross-examination, the prosecutrix

 categorically deposed that she herself had typed the written

 report and when she was typing the written report neither her
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 20/27 husband nor anyone else was there. On further cross-

 examination, she deposed that she was not in a position to say as

 to which button of the keyboard was to be pressed for typing her

 own name in computer. Further, she denied the suggestion that

 she had not stated before the police and in her statement under Section 164 of the CrPC that the appellant had committed rape

 upon her several times. She was not able to disclose her own

 mobile phone number. She admitted that though the appellant

 was threatened to make objectionable photographs viral on

 social media, he did not ever do so. It is pertinent to mention that

 even at the trial the prosecutrix did not disclose the date or

 month when the occurrence had taken place at Gaya. 22. From the original trial court's records we notice

 that the photostat copies of the screenshots of WhatsApp chats

 between the prosecutrix and the co-accused Parma was made

 part of the FIR by way of enclosures. The contents of the

 WhatsApp chats have, however, not been duly proved at the

 trial. Further, the photostat copies of the three bank account

 statements were made part of the FIR which was registered on

 28.06.2019. The said bank account statements were enclosed

 with the FIR to make out a case that from the account of the

 prosecutrix amounts were transferred in the account of the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 21/27 appellant. 23. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

 appellant, in our opinion, is correct in his submission that the

 said bank statements were issued on 29.06.2019. The detailed

 account statement issued by ICICI bank in the name of the

 prosecutrix is apparently dated 29.06.2019 and the transaction

 period is from 09.05.2019 to 29.06.2019. Similarly, statement of

 SBI account of the husband of the prosecutrix (PW-1) was

 issued on 29.06.2019. The third statement of account issued by

 the State Bank of India in relation to the account of the

 prosecutrix is also dated 29.06.2019. The act of annexing bank

 statement of bank accounts dated 29.06.2019 with the FIR said

 to have been registered on 28.06.2019 itself, in the Court's

 opinion, is apparent an act of interpolation and fabrication. By

 no means statement of bank accounts issued on 29.06.2019

 could form part of the FIR registered on 28.06.2019 without

 acts, interpolation and fabrication. In the aforesaid background,

 if the contents of the FIR, statement of the prosecutrix recorded

 under Section 164 of the CrPC and her deposition at the trial are

 considered together, in our opinion, PW-2, the prosecutrix does

 not appear to be a sterling witness. It is settled law that the

 solitary evidence of victim of rape without any corroboration can
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 22/27 be the basis for conviction but it is subject to the condition that

 the victim should be a sterling witness. 24. In case of Rai Sandeep v. State (NCT of Delhi )

 reported in (2012) 8 SCC 21, the Supreme Court elucidated that

 a sterling witness should be of high quality and caliber and the

 Court considering the version of such witness should be in a

 position to accept for its face value without any hesitation. To

 test the quality of such a witness, the status of the witness would

 be immaterial and what would be relevant is the truthfulness of

 the statement made by such a witness. What would be more

 relevant would be consistency of the statement right from the

 starting point till the end, namely, at the time when the witness

 makes the initial statement and ultimately before the court, the

 Supreme Court observed. 25. The Supreme Court further held in case of Rai

 Sandeep (supra) that such witness should be in a position to

 withstand the cross-examination of any length and howsoever

 strenuous it may be and under no circumstance should give room

 for any doubt as to the factum of the occurrence, the persons

 involved as well as the sequence of it. The said version should

 constantly match with the version of every other witness. It can

 even be stated that it should be akin to the test applied in the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 23/27 case of circumstantial evidence where there should not be any

 missing link in the chain of circumstances to hold the accused

 guilty of the offence alleged against him. The Supreme Court

 emphasized "...... only if the version of such a witness qualifies

 the above tests as well as all other such similar tests to be

 applied, can it be held that such a witness can be called as a

 sterling witness whose version can be accepted by the Court

 without any corroboration and based on which the guilty can be

 punished". The Supreme Court concluded in case of Rai

 Sandeep (supra) as under:- 26. The said decision in case of Rai Sandeep (Supra)

 has been followed in case of Santosh Prasad v. State of Bihar ,

 reported in (2020) 3 SCC 443. 27. What is noticeable in the present case is that

 according to the prosecutrix, the first occurrence of rape had

 taken place at Gaya when she had become unconscious. The

 appellant had taken her semi-nude photographs and videos while

 committing the offence of rape. Subsequently, under the threat of
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 24/27 making the photos and videos viral, he committed rape on the

 prosecutrix at Gaya multiple times and extorted money from her

 several times under the same threat of making the videos and

 photos viral. After the prosecutrix left Gaya for Saharsa on

 transfer of her husband and the appellant left for his native place

 in West Bengal, appellant and his wife joined together for

 extortion of money from the prosecutrix under the threat of the

 photographs and videos being made viral. 28. In the First Information Report, the prosecutrix

 alleged that she was going to commit suicide which was noticed

 by her husband, who rescued her. In her evidence at the trial,

 there is no deposition of the prosecutrix to the effect that she had

 made any attempt to commit suicide. She rather deposed at the

 trial that her husband had seen her weeping and upon inquiry she

 had disclosed the entire fact to him. 29. In our opinion, the prosecutrix, in the above

 mentioned circumstance, cannot be said to be a sterling witness

 whose solitary evidence could be the basis for convicting the

 appellant for commission of rape in the peculiar facts and

 circumstances of the present case emerging from the First

 Information Report, the statement of the prosecutrix under Section 164 of the CrPC and her deposition at the trial.
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 25/27 30. There is another glaring aspect in the present case.

 According to the prosecutrix, the rape upon her was committed

 by the appellant at Gaya. The IO (PW-4) in his cross-

 examination at the trial has clearly stated that he had not visited

 the place of occurrence at Gaya. Thus, neither the date(s) of the

 occurrence, months of occurrence nor the place of occurrence of

 rape said to have been committed by the appellant can be said to

 have been proved at the trial. 31. On careful scrutiny of the evidence adduced at the

 trial, we are of the considered view that the trial court has rightly

 acquitted the appellant of the charge of offences punishable

 under Sections 67 and 67A of the IT Act. 32. The husband of the prosecutrix (PW-1) is a hearsay

 witness on the point of sexual exploitation by the appellant on

 the threat of making objectionable photographs and videos viral.

 From his (PW-1) deposition it appears that he was holding a

 managerial position in Power Grid Corporation at Gaya and was

 posted as Chief Manager, Power Grid at Saharsa when the FIR

 was lodged. 33. Taking into account a holistic view of the entire

 facts and circumstances, we are of the considered opinion that it

 would be unsafe for this Court to uphold the finding of the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 26/27 appellant's conviction recorded by the trial court for commission

 of the offence punishable under Section 376 of the IPC based on

 uncorroborated evidence of the prosecutrix who does not appear

 to be a sterling witness, taking into account the patent

 inconsistencies in the prosecution's case. 34. As regards the appellant's conviction for the

 offences punishable under Section 384 of the IPC, we are of the

 view that the same is also unsustainable. Section 383 of the IPC

 defines 'extortion' as under:- 35. Though there is evidence that certain amount was

 deposited in the account of the appellant by the prosecutrix, the

 prosecution, in the Court's opinion, cannot be said to have

 established beyond all reasonable doubts that the prosecutrix

 was put by the appellant in fear of any injury to her and thereby

 dishonestly induced her to deliver the said amount in the

 account. The entire case of the prosecution becomes doubtful

 right from the very beginning, i.e., the registration of the FIR, as

 has been noted above. The evidence only to the effect that some

 amount was deposited in the account of the appellant by or at the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.304 of 2021 dt. 06-12-2023 27/27 instance of the prosecutrix, in the Court's opinion, cannot be the

 basis for upholding the appellant's conviction for the offence

 punishable under Section 384 of the IPC. 36. Accordingly, the impugned judgment of conviction

 and order of sentence dated 27.01.2021/ 30.01.2021, passed by

 learned Additional Sessions Judge-1-cum-Special Judge,

 Saharsa, in S.T. No. 180 of 2019, arising out of Saharsa P.S. Case No. 576 of 2019 are set aside. The appellant stands

 acquitted of the charge of offence punishable under Sections 376 and 384 of the Indian Penal Code by giving him benefit of

 doubt. 37. This appeal is allowed accordingly. 38. The appellant is in jail custody. Let him be

 released forthwith, if he is not required in any other case. (Chakradhari Sharan Singh, J)

 I agree.