Aforesaid appeal and cross appeal are being decided by way of
consolidated order as common question for determination has been raised,
to avoid repetition of discussion. 2. The appellant, ACIT, Circle 16(1), New Delhi (hereinafter referred
to as 'the Revenue') by filing the present appeal, sought to set aside the 2 I.T.A.No.1060/Del/2013 C.O.93/Del/2013

impugned order dated 18.12.2012 passed by Ld. Ld. CIT(A) XX, New
Delhi qua the Assessment Year 2008-09 on the ground that: 3. At the same time, appellant M/s. Tech Book Electronics Services
Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as 'the assessee') by filing the present
appeal sought to set aside the impugned order dated 18.12.2012 passed by
Ld. Ld. CIT(A) XX, New Delhi qua the Assessment Year 2008-09 on the
grounds inter alia that: C.O.93/Del/2013 4. The short question to be determined in the appeal preferred by the
Revenue is, deletion of addition of Rs.18,77,813/- made by the Assessing
Officer on account of Transfer Pricing Adjustment (TPA) in computation
of Arm's Length Price (ALP) in the international transaction. On the
other hand, the assessee, in the cross appeal, challenged the exclusion of
e-Clrex Services Ltd. and sought inclusion of Cosmic Global Ltd. for the
comparables chosen by the Transfer Pricing Officer (TPO) and accepted
by the Ld. CIT(A). 5. Brief facts of this case are: Assessee Company is wholly owned
subsidiary of Aptara. During the processing of return of income filed by
the assessee for the Assessment Year 2008-09, the case was subjected to
scrutiny and consequently, notices u/ss 143(2) and 142(1) of the Act along
with questionnaire were served upon the assessee and in response thereto,
Shri B. R. Mehra, FCA /AR appeared and the case was discussed with
him. 6. During the year under assessment, the assessee company being into
the business of software / I T enabled services, has entered into
international transaction with associated enterprises (AE) and form 3CEB
has been filled and consequently reference has been made to the TPO to
determine the ALP of international transaction. 7. The assessee determined the Arm's Length Price of International
Transaction of I T enabled services provided to its AE by using TNMM
method. The operating profit to the total cost (OP/TC) ratio, taken as the
profit level indicator (PLI) was computed at 15.50% which was shown as 4 I.T.A.No.1060/Del/2013 C.O.93/Del/2013

at ALP by comparing with the similar PLI of 20.33% of 15 comparables
taken at an average. 8. The TPO passed the order u/s 92CA(3) of the Act after making
transfer pricing (TP) adjustment of Rs.18,77,813/- on account of ALP by
determining arms length margin of comparables @ 23.29% on the ground
that there is variation in the prices charged by the assessee by more than
5% for the value of international transaction, an adjustment of
Rs.18,77,813/- for provisions of I T enabled services has been made to
the income of the assessee for difference between ALP and price charged
by the assessee from its AEs. 9. It is noticed that the comparable companies having worked out by
adopted weighted average for the current year and the immediately
preceding two years and thereafter, the arithmetic mean of weight average
has been taken for computation of ALP. PLI and comparable has been
arrived at by considering the data for the Assessment Years 2005-06,
2006-07 and 2007-08. 10. TPO after examining 15 comparables selected by the assessee as
well as submissions made before him, found comparables in 8 companies
out of 15 comparables taken by the assessee and finally selected 15
comparables tabulated at page 16 of his order by highlighting their OP/TC
percentage. For ready reference, 15 finally selected comparables are
tabulated as under: 11. The TPO accepted the computation made by assessee of OP/TC
@15% detailed as under: 12. The TPO by considering the Arms Length Margin of the
comparables @ 23.36% worked out the TP Adjustment to the tune of
Rs.18,77,813/- and consequently, Assessing Officer made this addition by
virtue of order dated 21.02.2012 u/s 143(3) of the Act. C.O.93/Del/2013 13. The assessee carried the matter before Ld. Ld. CIT(A) by filing the
appeal who has deleted the addition by excluding BNR Udyog Ltd. (Seg),
Datamatics Financial Ltd. (BPO division), Genesis International
Corporation Ltd., Maple E Solutions Ltd., Mould Tek Technologies Ltd.
and Triton Corp. Ltd. 14. On the other hand, assessee by filing the cross appeal, sought
exclusion of eClerx Services Ltd. from the list of final comparables and
sought inclusion of Cosmic Global Ltd. and C G Glack Software. 15. We have heard both the Ld. Authorized Representatives, gone
through the material placed on record in the light of facts and
circumstances of the case and orders passed by lower authorities. 16. Undisputedly, though the assessee as well as TPO selected TNMM
as most appropriate method for computation of TP adjustment of
international transaction at assessee's own ALP with its OP/TC @
15.50%. The revenue by filing the appeal challenged deletion of addition
of Rs.18,77,813/- made by Ld. CIT(A) on account of TPA by excluding
BNR Udyog Ltd. (Seg), Datamatics Financial Ltd. (BPO division), Genesis

International Corporation Ltd., Maple E Solutions Ltd., Mould Tek
Technologies Ltd. and Triton Corp. Ltd. On the other hand, assessee by
filing cross objections sought exclusion of eClerx Services Ltd. and
inclusion of Cosmic Global Ltd. and C G Glack Software. 17. The issue as to the comparability and disagreement between the
parties is to be determined on the basis of TP study report of the assessee,
available on the record, which has been incorporated in the TPO order. A
perusal of the master service agreement dated 01.10.2003 valid for the
year under assessment available at pages 263 to 276 of the Paper Book 7 I.T.A.No.1060/Del/2013 C.O.93/Del/2013

shows that assessee company is engaged in providing electronic
publishing services for any media format, including web, online
database, e-books or even wireless devices. TBES specializes in
provision of technical servsics such as data conversion, web page
construction, data entry / keyboarding New Delhi software
development. TBES will provide such services to the Company,
where and when requested. Under the agreement, the assessee has
undertaken its stand and included services described in exhibit which
statement of work embodying the terms and relationship between the
assessee and Tech Enterprises Inc. Para 2 of the Exhibit A clarifies that
the assessee is responsible for providing services described in para 3
which reads as under: 18. The services made available by the asessee's AE, and the list of the
customers is given in para 3.2 of the agreement, which include Blackwell
Publishing, John Willey and Sons Ltd., Elsevier Science, Cambridge
University Press, Springer SBM, I Achieves and Pearson Education. Para
5 of the agreement explains the manner of remuneration to be paid to the
assessee @ 100% of all costs and expenses incurred in the provisions of
such services plus an appropriate amount of mark up on the utilized 8 I.T.A.No.1060/Del/2013 C.O.93/Del/2013

capacity cost. The work carried out by the assessee is electronic
publishing and pre-press service including print ready files to printers and
electronic deliverables for online publishing by converting data from one
file to another format and storing of such data for the ultimate use as
required by the customers. In the backdrop of the aforesaid functional
profile of the assessee, ground raised by the Revenue as to the deletion of
addition of Rs.18,77,813/- on account of TPA by excluding BNR Udyog
Ltd. (Seg), Datamatics Financial Ltd. (BPO division), Genesis
International Corporation Ltd., Maple E Solutions Ltd., Mould Tek
Technologies Ltd. and Triton Corp. Ltd. are taken for discussion as under: A. BNR Udyog Ltd. (seg): This comparable has been chosen by TPO but excluded by Ld.
CIT(A) from the list of comparables to determine the Transfer Pricing
Adjustment (TPA) of international transaction. The Revenue challenged
exclusion of this comparable on the ground that this comparable has been
excluded by Ld. CIT(A) arbitrarily and on the basis of related parties
transaction (RPT) without making any investigation nor Ld. CIT(A) called
any evidence to arrive at the impugned decision. The assessee has
challenged this comparable on the ground that this comparable company
has RPT of 75% and as such, is liable to be rejected. TPO rejected the contentions raised by the assessee on the ground
that as per annual report, the comparable company has total turnover of
only Rs.1.98 crores, which includes Rs.1.33 crores in the segment of
medical transcription. TPO further stated that as per AS-18 at page 33 of
the Annual Report explaining the related party's transactions during the
year under consideration. There were purchases, sales and services with 9 I.T.A.No.1060/Del/2013 C.O.93/Del/2013

enterprises having common management personnel at Rs.14.97 crores and
as such this is not a related party transaction. On the other hand, Ld.
CIT(A) by giving general observations, without going into any evidence,
relied upon by the TPO, held that in view of abnormal RPT, this company
cannot be taken as a comparable company. We are of the considered view that when the assessee has raised
objection to the inclusion of this company as comparable company on the
ground that it's RPT is 75%, which was required to be decided by
examining the RPT percentage, which is undisputedly not available on
record. CIT(A) has erred in excluding the same without examining the
data. TPO as well as CIT(A) were empowered to call the data by
exercising powers u/s 133(6) of the Act, which they have not exercised to
decide the RPT of comparable company alleged to be @75% by the
assessee on the basis of RPT percentage only. CIT(A) has failed to point
out the material on the basis of which he has arrived at the conclusion as
to RPT of 75% of the comparable company. So, we are of the considered
view that when functional comparability of this company is not in dispute
and RPT percentage is required to be determined on the basis of data, if
available, the matter is required to be restored to the file of TPO to decide
the issue afresh on the basis of RPT of BNR Udyog Ltd. as comparable
company. B. Datamatix Financial Ltd. : TPO has chosen this company as comparable by making following
observations: C.O.93/Del/2013

 The assessee challenged the inclusion of this company as
comparable company on the grounds inter-alia that this is a functionally
different company; that its segmental information is not available and this
company had shown 450% profits in its P & L account meaning thereby,
it is highly profitable business; that assessee has not been provided with
any opportunity to cross examine the evidence taken on record; that there
is no material to reach out at the conclusion that as to how 34.8% profit
has been computed by the TPO. Ld. CIT(A) by accepting the contention
of the assessee, excluded this comparable company on account of
functional disparity as well as on ground of non availability of the audited
segmental information. From the perusal of material available on record relied upon by the
TPO in arriving at the decision to include the Datamatix Financial
Services as comparable company, it is apparently clear that the TPO has
chosen this comparable on the basis of assumptions and presumptions by
ignoring the fact that the comparable company has shown 450% profit and
falls in the category of highly profitable business and as such, is liable to
be excluded from the list of comparable company. TPO in his analysis for
finally choosing this company as comparable, has categorically taken
Datamatix Financial Ltd. as BPO division. There is no segmental
information available on the file to make out if this comparable company
is a BPO division. This is a mystery as to how the TPO has shown OP/TC
@ 34.87% of this comparable company as shown in para 3.7 of the order.
Even Ld. D.R. has failed to answer as to how this figure has come out on
record. When the segmental information regarding IT Enabled Service is 11 I.T.A.No.1060/Del/2013 C.O.93/Del/2013

not available, it is beyond comprehension, as to how the TPO has chosen
this company as comparable company. At the same time, CIT(A) has also
summarily excluded this comparable as per contention of the assessee
without examining if this company is a BPO division. So, we are of the considered view that the matter is required to be
restored to the TPO to verify if the figures relied upon by him are of BPO
division. If the comparable company is not ascertained as BPO division
then it is to be excluded and in case figures relied upon by TPO are of
BPO division then it is to be included as a comparable company. In case,
the figures are of entity level, it is to be excluded. C. Genesys International Corporation Ltd: This comparable is also chosen by TPO by taking OP/TC
@51.91%. TPO has chosen this company as comparable on the basis of
annual report by stating that the functions of this company is comparable
to the assessee and it passes all the filters. Even otherwise, this
comparable company is having OP/TC @ 51.91% and falling in the
category of super profit making company. TPO rejected this argument of
assessee by applying the logic that super normal profit making companies
are also part of the industry and hence, cannot be rejected merely because
they have earned such profit unless peculiar economic circumstances of
such company are pointed out. It is settled principle that for TP
adjustment, two companies can only be considered as comparables when
both are having over all similar functions and their OP/TC margin is also
near to each other. However, Ld. CIT(A) by accepting the contention of the assessee,
excluded this comparable from TP Study on the ground of functional 12 I.T.A.No.1060/Del/2013 C.O.93/Del/2013

dissimilarity between the assessee company and comparable company.
The comparable company, Genesys, has been using highly specialized
work force comprising of urban planner, cartographers, remote
sensing scientists, photogrammetrists, civil engineers, field survey
personnel and rocket scientists and related computer based services
and it has been making substantial investment in research and
development. Even from the perusal of annual report of the comparable
company for the year 2007-08 brought out on record by Ld. A.R., it is
proved that skill and expertise of the employees of the comparable
company i.e. Genesys is diametrically opposite to the skill and expertise
of employees of the assessee company as the assessee company is
primarily having graduates vis-à-vis the most skilled workforce with the
comparable company. Annual report of Genesys for the Assessment Year
2007-0-8 describes it s workforce as under: However, on the other hand, assessee company is into the business
of electronic publishing services like data conversion and copying in
different formats which are classified as I T enabled Services (ITES).
From the bare perusal of functional profiles of the assessee company vis a
vis comparable company it is proved that both are functionally dissimilar
and as such, cannot be taken a comparable company for TPA. So, we
hereby affirm the findings returned by Ld. CIT(A). "The comparable has been rejected while providing the current
 year margins on the ground that it has nil service income during
 the year. However the annual report of the comparable shows that
 the functions of this company are comparable to the assessee. The
 company passes all the filters. It can be used as a comparable."
 However, the assessee challenged the inclusion of this company on
the grounds inter alia that this company does not qualify 75% service
income filter and is performing non comparable services like trading in I
T peripherals and I T software and distribution of wireless
communication. Ld. CIT(A) by relying upon the order passed by ITAT in
the case of CRM Services India Pvt. Ltd. Vs ITO (I.T.A.No.
4796/Del/2010), rejected this comparable for the following reasons: We are of the view that this company has been rightly excluded as
comparable company on the ground that this company is under severe
indictment as has been held by the Coordinate Bench of ITAT in the
judgement in case of CRM Services India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) and also on
the ground that out of the total sale of 33.64 crores, Rs.13.66 crores is
from I T peripherals and Rs.2.21 crores from IT software and its
segmental profitability is not available in the annual report. So, keeping 14 I.T.A.No.1060/Del/2013 C.O.93/Del/2013

in view the low credibility of the comparable company, which is under
serious indictment, the same is functionally dissimilar to the assessee
company, we hereby affirm the findings of Ld. CIT(A) to exclude this
company as comparable company for TPA. D. Mold-Tek Technologies Ltd.: TPO has chosen this company as comparable by making following
observations: The assessee challenged this comparable on the grounds inter alia
that the company is engaged in providing high end engineering
consultancy services; that this company has also exceptional year of
operation due to the acquisition of Crossroads Detailing Inc. USA and is
earning super normal profits. But the TPO stated to have applied broader
criteria while accepting or rejecting the company as comparable so far as
functional comparability of the company is concerned. Ld. CIT(A) has excluded this company from the list of comparables
by making following observations: When undisputedly, the comparable company has two segments
one ITES and another Plastic Divisions and ITES division is having 100%
exemption and the company has only to pay tax on the profits of its plastic
division and thus earning profits @ 106.82% for the financial year 2007-
08 it falls in the category of units earning extra ordinary profits. Even
otherwise, comparable company is functionally dissimilar to the assessee
company because comparable company is dealing in engineering designs
and detailing services, web designing services, software testing, in house
software development etc. whereas, functionally the assessee company is
providing electronic publishing services such as computerized data 16 I.T.A.No.1060/Del/2013 C.O.93/Del/2013

conversion, we page construction, data entry / key boarding, copy editing
and CAD / civil mapping services to its AEs, which are diametrically
dissimilar to each other. So, we are of the considered view that this company cannot be
taken as a comparable company, consequently findings returned by Ld.
CIT(A) qua this company are hereby affirmed. E. Triton Corp. Ltd.: This is assessee's own comparable and the TPO has accepted it
without assigning any reasons. However, Ld. CIT(A) excluded this
comparable on the ground that the TPO without having any segment
profitability considered that the comparable company sold I T Peripherals
of Rs.61.578 crores and other at Rs.4.03 crores of the total sale of
Rs.145.76 crores. Since the comparable company does not qualify for
service income filter applied by the TPO, the Ld. CIT(A) has rightly
considered the same as uncomparable company vis-à-vis assessee
company. However apart from functional dissimilarity, this company is
also liable to be excluded on the ground that this company is a fraud
company as has been held by ITAT Delhi Bench 'B' New Delhi in case
entitled ITO Vs CRM Services India (P) Ltd in I.T.A.No.
4068/Del/2009, operative part of which for ready reference, is reproduced
as under: So, we are of the considered view that this comparable company
being a fraud company cannot be taken as comparable and as such,
findings returned by Ld. CIT(A) are hereby affirmed. 19. The assessee, by filling the cross objections, sought exclusion of
eClerx Services Ltd. and sought inclusion of Cosmic Global Ltd. from the
final list of comparables. Now, in order to decide the cross objections filed
by the assessee, we are to examine as to whether eClerx Services Ltd. is
liable to be excluded from the list of comparable companies and Cosmic
Global Ltd. and CG Glack Software are liable to be included in the list of
comparables as contended by the assessee. Ld.A.R. relied upon the order passed by ITAT Delhi Bench 'I' in
I.T.A.No.5207/Del/2013 order dated 10.06.2015, in case cited as Xchanging Technology Services India Pvt. Ltd. Vs ACIT and referred
para 17 & 18, which is reproduced for ready reference as under: 18. While, we considered the functionally comparability issue of
Cosmic Global services with the present assessee company then we
find ourselves view taken by the Tribunal in its order in the case of 20 I.T.A.No.1060/Del/2013 C.O.93/Del/2013

 United Health Group Information Services Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ACIT
 (Supra) wherein for the same A Y 2008-09 it was held that the
 major part of income from translation charges is amounting to
 Rs.5.59 crores out of total revenues of Rs.5.86 crore, which is
 totally dissimilar to that of the assessee of that case. In the present
 case, the DRP/AO has only disputed the International transaction
 of the present assessee only ITES segment whereas as per annual
 report of Cosmic Global Ltd. at page 578 of assessee paper book
 Vol.-II, we clearly note that the Revenue from ITES segment is very
 low which creates a great functional difference from present
 assessee as the present assessee is not indulged into translation
 segmental business. Hence, we are inclined to accept the contention
 of the assessee that the Cosmic Global Ltd. is functionally
 dissimilar to the present assessee and Cosmic Global Ltd. is not a
 suitable comparable to the present assessee for benchmarking and
 determining the arm's length price (ALP) of present assessee ITES
 segmental international transactions for A Y 2008-09. Accordingly,
 we hold that Cosmic Global Ltd. was wrongly included in the final
 set of comparables which deserves to be deleted. We ordered
 accordingly. In the case cited Exchanging Technology Services India Pvt. Ltd. (supra), the Tribunal relied upon the case cited as Toluna India Pvt. Ltd.
vs ACIT I.T.A.No. 5645/Del/20123 dated 26.08.2014, wherein it was
held that merger/demerger in a company makes such company as unfit for
comparison and the same cannot be considered as suitable comparable
because of the exceptional final result due to merger and demerger. Findings returned by the Tribunal in para 15 of the order in case entitled Xchanging Technology Services India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) are further
reproduced as under: 15. In view of above, we note that the eClerx Services Ltd. is
 engaged in providing data analytics and customized process to its
 host of global clients which also provides services to the banking,
 manufacturing, retail, travel and hospitability business entities. Ld.
 DRP has not disputed this fact that the ITES segmental solutions
 offered by it also include data analytics operation management,
 audit and reconciliation, metrics management and reporting
 services. Apparently, this company provides tailored process
 outsourcing and management services in addition to multitude of
 the data aggregation, and mining and maintenance services from
 vigilant reading of annual report available at Page 659 to 738 of
 the assessee paper book Volume-II, it can be easily seen that it is
 not closed to the assessee ITES segmental services transaction
 which are impressed by the manual process ITES services. We are
 also not in agreement with the conclusion of the DRP that no
 comparable can be excluded on the ground of abnormal margin if
 its functionally comparable to the tested party because
 mergers/demergers brings exceptional financial result which make
 a such order as unfit for comparison. In view of our foregoing
 discussion, we reach to a logical conclusion that the eClerx
 Services Ltd. is not a suitable comparable to the assessee company
 for A Y 2008-09 due to high pitched financial result and the same
 deserve to be deleted from the final set of comparables. We ordered
 accordingly." So, in view of what has been discussed above and following the
order passed by the coordinate Bench of ITAT, the eClerx Services Ltd.
cannot be taken a comparable on the ground of issue of amalgamation and 23 I.T.A.No.1060/Del/2013 C.O.93/Del/2013

on ground of earning super normal profit @ 66.25% as discussed by the
Tribunal in the judgement cited as Exchanging Technology Services India
Pvt. Ltd. (supra). So, we hereby reverse the findings returned by Ld.
CIT(A) retaining this company as comparable and the same is ordered to
be excluded from the list of comparables. (ii) Cosmic Global Ltd.: