Index to the Judgment
 FACTUAL BACKGROUND .............................................................................. 2
 ARGUMENTS ADDRESSED BY BOTH THE PARTIES ............................. 6
 ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS ............................................................................. 9
 USE OF DEROGATORY LANGUAGE IN PLEADINGS ........................... 14
 i. Necessity of Reasonable Diligence While Drafting Pleadings ................. 18
 ii. Balancing the Use of „Strong Language‟ with the Cause of Justice ......... 19
 CONCLUSION AND DIRECTIONS .............................................................. 21 Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 1 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J. 1. The present petition under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973 (' Cr.P.C ') has been filed by the petitioner seeking
 setting aside of order dated 13.10.2020, passed by learned Additional
 Sessions Judge-02, South-West, Dwarka Courts, Delhi ('learned
 ASJ') in B.M.4006/2020 whereby anticipatory bail has been granted
 to accused/respondent no. 2. FACTUAL BACKGROUND 2. Brief facts of the case are that the present FIR bearing no.
 574/2020 was registered on 19.08.2020 under Sections 376 / 506 of
 Indian Penal Code, 1860 (' IPC ') at Police Station Palam Vihar, on
 the basis of a complaint lodged by the petitioner/complainant alleging
 therein that respondent no. 2 had committed rape upon her on false
 pretext of marriage and had cheated the complainant. It is alleged that
 the complainant/petitioner is a single mother of two children and is
 doing her own business in Punjab, and the respondent no. 2 used to
 send messages to petitioner on regular basis since August, 2019 on
 her WhatsApp number, however, she never used to reply to the same.
 It is stated that the complainant always wanted to settle down in her
 life and get married to a responsible person as she did not want to
 involve herself in a fake relationship, and she had conveyed this fact
 to respondent no. 2. As mentioned in the complaint, the complaint
 had provided the screenshots of the WhatsApp conversation between
 her and the accused/respondent no. 2. It is further alleged that in the Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 2 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 very first audio and video call, she had informed the respondent no. 2
 that she has two children, however, the accused always insisted to
 meet her in person, but the complainant had refused to meet him. It is
 stated that on 27.10.2019, respondent no. 2 had again started sending
 WhatsApp messages to her on one pretext or the other and had also
 started making video calls to her which she never used to answer. He,
 however, always pressurized her to attend the video calls. It is alleged
 that respondent no. 2 had allured the complainant and had told her
 that he was in love with her and wanted to get married to her. She,
 however, alleges that he had disclosed his name as Akash Thakur and
 not Ashish Thakur. It is also alleged that she used to visit her native
 home at Haryana and during that time, respondent no. 2 had made a
 WhatsApp video call alongwith routine ordinary calls to the
 complainant and had also spoken to her sister, sister-in-law and her
 children, and he had tried to convince family members of the
 complainant that he was interested to get married to her. It is stated
 that the family members of the complainant had tried to make him
 understand that his family will not accept the complainant as she
 already has two children, however, he had convinced sister of the
 complainant that he will handle this issue himself and will convince
 his family. The victim was allured and the accused/respondent no. 2
 had succeeded in making the petitioner fall in love with him,
 however, he had exploited the emotions and feelings of the petitioner.
 As alleged, the respondent no. 2 had requested the complainant that
 she should inform him whenever she will visit her residence at Delhi
 as he wanted to visit Delhi to meet her. Allegedly, he had again Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 3 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 started calling her during day and night and had tried to convince her
 that she should personally meet him to know him better. Therefore,
 the complainant had gone to meet him in Delhi on 27.01.2020 and
 had informed Ashish Thakur that she was in Delhi. The respondent
 no. 2 had also reached Delhi at her residence where he had again
 convinced the complainant that he considered her as his legally
 wedded wife and he had started addressing her as not R. Devi but R.
 Thakur. It is alleged that at Delhi, accused/respondent no. 2 had made
 physical relations with the complainant on the pretext of getting
 married to her, at the earliest. Thereafter, he had stayed with the
 complainant in Delhi for two days i.e. on 28.01.2020 and 29.01.2020
 at her residence and had continued to make physical relations with
 her. On 02.02.2020, he had again visited Delhi and had again made
 physical relations with her at her home in Delhi on the pretext of
 getting married to her at the earliest. It is stated that the complainant
 had no reason to suspect the intention of the accused, and in case she
 would have doubted his intention, she would have never indulged in
 emotional and physical relationship on the pretext and assurance of
 marriage given by him. It is also stated that he had again asked her to
 meet him on 05.02.2020, however, she had refused to meet him for
 the purpose of physical relationship as she wanted a commitment of
 marriage from the accused and had given 20 days time to him for the
 purpose of finalizing the marriage proposal with his family members.
 It is stated in the complaint that in the meantime, she came to know
 that the name disclosed by the accused as Akash Thakur was not his
 real name and his actual name was Ashish Thakur. He always used to Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 4 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 assure her that she and her children are his sole responsibility and it
 was their family tradition to send children outside the city for higher
 education and he will also send the children outside the city for the
 purpose of education after getting married to her. It is alleged that the
 accused had assured her the same for the purpose of indulging into
 physical relationship, and he also used to talk to the complainant
 from 6:00 PM till 3:30 AM every day, and also used to send
 messages to her family members. On 16.03.2020, he had requested
 the complainant that he was going to Gujarat for some urgent work
 and she should meet him at Delhi. On 16.03.2020, he had met her at
 her residence and he had formatted the mobile phone of the
 complainant on the pretext of calling some other person. He had done
 so with ulterior motive to delete the entire data including
 photographs, messages, chats etc. of respondent no. 2 from time to
 time with the complainant and her family members. It is alleged that
 after formatting the mobile of the complainant, his behaviour towards
 her traumatically changed and he blamed her that she had allured him
 in the love affair. It is alleged that the accused had misused her
 physically and emotionally with ulterior motive of only sexually
 exploiting her on the pretext of marriage whereas he never intended
 to get married to her. Thereafter, whenever the complainant used to
 make phone calls to him, he used to threaten her to destroy her family
 in case she will take any legal action against him, and always used
 abusive language with her and threatened her with dire consequences.
 As alleged, he had also offered her money so that she will not take
 legal action against him, however, she had told him that money Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 5 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 cannot buy her as she is an emotional person and will take legal
 action against the wrong acts committed by him. On these
 allegations, the present FIR was registered. Thereafter, vide order
 dated 13.10.2020, the learned ASJ was pleased to grant anticipatory
 bail to the accused/respondent no. 2. ARGUMENTS ADDRESSED BY BOTH THE PARTIES 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner/complainant states that the
 learned ASJ has committed an error in granting anticipatory bail to
 the accused without taking into account the fact that the case is
 serious in nature and that accused used to regularly send messages to
 the complainant pretending that he was seriously willing to get
 married to her. It is argued that the accused had also spoken to the
 entire family members of the petitioner/complainant and had won her
 trust, and with dishonest intention, he had sexually exploited her. It is
 also stated that the accused used to speak to her for long hours on
 phone and he had induced her to meet him in person in Delhi and had
 expressed his desire to get married to her. It is submitted that the
 learned ASJ also failed to take into account that in the first few
 conversations, complainant had herself told the accused about her
 previous marriage, children and Panchayati divorce, and the accused
 through his persuasive tricks had made the complainant believe that
 with her Panchayati divorce, she can validly marry the accused. It is
 also stated that the learned ASJ failed to take into account the fact
 that the accused was an army man and therefore, the complainant
 believed his words under the impression that he would marry her. It Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 6 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 is argued that the accused had continuously made physical relations
 with her on 27.01.2020, 28.01.2020, 29.01.2020 and 02.02.2020 by
 putting her under misconception of fact that he wanted to marry her.
 It is argued that the learned ASJ also failed to take into account the
 fact that the accused had managed to format the mobile phone of the
 complainant and delete proofs of conversation, photographs and
 video recordings between them with ulterior motive to destroy
 evidence. It is stated that the impugned order is perverse, erroneous,
 without any reasons and has resulted in gross miscarriage of justice to
 the petitioner/complainant. It is also stated that the reasoning of the
 learned ASJ that since she was not divorced from her earlier husband,
 she cannot be said to be guilty of committing sexual intercourse with
 her on the pretext of marriage is ex-facie perverse and erroneous. It is
 stated that the learned ASJ failed to consider that if a man commits
 sexual intercourse with a girl on false pretext of marriage, it amounts
 to offence of rape. It is stated that the accused already knew that the
 complainant was married and had children which is apparent from
 the conversations between the parties. However, he had still
 deceitfully induced her to have sexual intercourse with him,
 misrepresenting that since she has already obtained the Panchayati
 divorce, she can validly marry him at any point of time and he will
 handle the issue of first marriage being an army man and had thus,
 sexually exploited her. It is also argued that the false promise itself
 was of immediate relevance and had direct nexus with complainant‟s
 decision to engage in sexual acts. It is stated that the wrong
 observations on the merits of the case at the time of grant of Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 7 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 anticipatory bail have resulted in causing injustice to the
 complainant, and the learned ASJ has shown unwarranted sympathy
 to the accused who had sexually exploited a woman on false pretext
 of marriage. It is therefore stated that the order dated 13.10.2020
 passed by learned ASJ be set aside. 4. It is also stated that by learned counsel for the petitioner/
 complainant the learned ASJ failed to take into account that by
 making observations on merits of the case against the complainant,
 while passing an order for grant of anticipatory bail, had virtually
 exonerated the accused of the charges levelled against him. It is
 therefore argued that such observations be expunged from the
 impugned order. 5. Learned APP for the State has also submitted that the
 observations made in the anticipatory bail order against the
 complainant on the merits of the case were unwarranted and have a
 bearing on the trial of the case and those observations need to be
 expunged. 6. On the other hand, learned Senior counsel for the accused/
 respondent no. 2 argues that there are no reasons to interfere with the
 impugned order as the learned ASJ had rightly granted anticipatory
 bail to the accused after taking into account all the facts and
 circumstances of the case and the conduct of the complainant herself.
 Therefore, it is prayed that the petition be dismissed. 7. This Court has heard arguments addressed by learned counsel
 for petitioner/complainant as well as learned APP for the State, and
 has perused the material on record. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 8. In the present case, learned ASJ has passed the anticipatory
 bail order dated 13.10.2020, and the relevant portion of the order
 which is primarily challenged, alongwith the decision of grant of
 anticipatory bail, reads as under: Ld. Additional PP for State has opposed grant of anticipatory
 bail to accused as investigation in the matter is still pending.
 Keeping in view the circumstances as discussed above, without
 commenting on merits, I deem it appropriate to allow
 anticipatory bail application of accused." 9. This Court notes that the case was under investigation when
 the impugned order granting anticipatory bail to the
 accused/respondent no. 2 was passed. As per Status Report filed on Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 9 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 record, the complainant was medically examined vide MLC No.
 223/2020 dated 19.08.2020 wherein it was recorded that the
 complainant had been in relationship with the accused for one year
 and was in sexual relationship with him for six months on promise of
 marriage. The complainant had also informed the doctor concerned
 that she was divorced and had two children. She was also pregnant
 with the child of the accused but had undergone MTP as he had
 refused to get married to her and to accept the child. In the status
 report, it is mentioned that the complainant had corroborated her
 version in the statement recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. The
 MLC has also been filed alongwith the Status Report. It has also been
 mentioned in the Status Report that during investigation, Call Detail
 Records of phone numbers of petitioner and respondent no.2 revealed
 that they were in touch with each other and that complainant had also
 submitted screenshots of chats with respondent no. 2 to support her
 allegations. The same were also placed on record, and have also been
 annexed with the present Status Report. It is also stated that the
 petitioner/complainant had not been able to produce any document
 regarding her divorce from her previous husband and had informed
 that she had lost the documents. As informed to this Court, all these
 facts and the material collected during investigation were brought to
 the attention of learned ASJ at the time of hearing of anticipatory bail
 application filed by the accused/respondent no. 2. 10. This Court while going through the impugned order notes that
 the learned ASJ has made observations on the merits of the case and
 while granting anticipatory bail to the accused, has commented on the Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 10 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 merits of the case at the stage of grant of anticipatory bail itself when
 the matter was still under investigation. The observations of the
 learned ASJ that the complainant was still married and not divorced
 were yet to be tested during trial. The fact as to whether she actually
 had been divorced or not could have been proved only after leading
 evidence, and the prosecution collecting evidence as to whether
 customary divorce was valid or not, and the other connected issues
 regarding this fact being in the knowledge of the accused or not, in
 the face of the specific allegations in the complaint itself that the
 conversation between the accused and the complainant pointed out
 towards the accused convincing the complainant that he will handle
 in case any issue arose regarding her Panchayati divorce, was placed
 before the learned ASJ. Moreover, the complainant has alleged in her
 statement before the police as well as under Section 164 of Cr.P.C.
 that she had informed about the Panchayati divorce to the accused
 and he had convinced her that it was valid and he will deal with it and
 he was ready to get married to her. The focal point, therefore, for
 consideration was such conversations which finds no mention in the
 bail order. It was crucial to at least refer to those conversations when
 the status report and the complaint of the complainant stated so, since
 the learned ASJ was heavily relying on this fact that she was still
 married and therefore, there could not have been any false promise of
 marriage. 11. The learned ASJ has further observed at the time of granting
 anticipatory bail that since there was no legal divorce of complainant, Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 11 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 she could not have been lured by accused on pretext of marriage. The
 observations in this regard read as under: 12. Further, the learned ASJ also observed that though it is alleged
 by the complainant that accused had refused to marry her, however,
 legally the accused could not have married the complainant on
 account of complainant herself being already married. In this Court‟s
 opinion, the learned ASJ could not have commented on the same and
 should have refrained from saying so while passing anticipatory bail
 order since it was neither the matter in issue before him, nor the
 Court was giving a finding for the purpose of charge etc. The learned
 ASJ further notes that: 13. The impugned order records that it appears that the
 complainant is trying to harass the accused/respondent no. 2, though
 he has clean antecedents. The learned ASJ should have refrained
 from saying so at the time of passing of a bail order or even
 otherwise. Though the Courts have to pass a reasoned order while Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 12 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 granting or denying bail, but they are not required to decide the
 merits of the case or of the contentions in detail without mentioning
 in the order that the same will not be considered as opinion on the
 merit of the case. When the issues in question are still under
 investigation, regarding which evidence is yet to be collected by the
 prosecution; it would be a dangerous trend to give a categorical
 opinion about the same at the stage of grant of anticipatory bail, that
 too after two months of the registration of the FIR in question. In
 such circumstances, this Court observes that the categorical
 observations made at the time of passing of the anticipatory bail order
 were uncalled for and should have been avoided. 14. Therefore, this Court directs that nothing expressed in the
 impugned anticipatory bail order dated 13.10.2020 shall have any
 bearing on the merits of the case when the concerned learned Trial
 Court will decide the present case, at the stage of passing of final
 judgment. The learned Trial Court will decide the case irrespective of
 these observations, without being influenced by the same, on the
 strength of merit of the case as per law. 15. However, at the same time, this Court notes that the accused
 was granted bail in the year 2020 and the evidence of the
 petitioner/complainant has already been concluded before the learned
 Trial Court. There are no reports of accused having approached the
 complainant in any manner or having influenced her or threatened
 her during the last three years. Therefore, at this stage, there is no
 ground for cancellation of anticipatory bail granted to the
 accused/respondent no. 2. USE OF DEROGATORY LANGUAGE IN PLEADINGS 16. Before parting with this case, this Court is constrained to note
 that the language used in the Counter affidavit filed on behalf of the
 accused/respondent no.2 includes certain derogatory terms when
 referring to the complainant, including phrases such as 'art of
 seduction,' which this Court strongly condemns. 17. The relevant portion of counter affidavit submitted on behalf
 of the accused/respondent no. 2 reads as under: (Emphasis supplied) 18. It is stated in the counter affidavit that the accused/respondent
 no. 2 was a simple young person serving in Indian Army and had
 intention to marry a 'faithful girl of his choice' in order to live a
 happy married life and this is why he had proposed to the petitioner
 for marriage. The respondent no. 2 has also stated that the petitioner
 used to chat with him and soon took the respondent. 2 into full
 confidence, and he developed a liking for the petitioner without
 knowing about her 'extremely wicked or villainous designs' who
 by her 'seductive acts' made the respondent. 2 to propose her for
 the marriage. He has also stated that the petitioner had disclosed that
 she was a „virgin‟ and looking for a suitable match and belongs to a
 suitable family. He also stated that the petitioner had not disclosed to
 him that she had children and was previously married, and she had Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 15 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 started making excuses when the accused had asked that he wanted to
 meet her parents, and she had told him that it was not possible since
 her mother was ill. It is stated that he was shocked to know that the
 petitioner was not a virgin and was a divorcee. It is also stated by
 respondent no. 2 that he always wanted to marry a simple virgin
 girl and never wanted to marry a divorcee but the petitioner was
 a cunning person who had emotionally blackmailed him through
 her chats and phone calls by telling him that her love was true for
 him and had not disclosed her marital status to him and that through
 her 'art of seduction' had made respondent no. 2 to agree to
 marry her despite being a divorcee. It is further stated by
 respondent no. 2 that the petitioner was not even divorcee but also
 a mother of two children, and he had felt betrayed as she had
 played with his emotions, and thus, he had told her that their
 marriage was not possible. It is stated that she had again tried to
 convince respondent no. 2 by her 'seductive talks', but he told
 her clearly that he was not interested to marry a divorcee with
 two children and to take responsibility by forgetting the chances
 of having his own children in further, and even the same shall not
 be acceptable to his family. It is further stated that he had also told
 her that he would have never proposed to the petitioner if she would
 have disclosed the truth to respondent no.2 that she is divorcee with
 two children from her ex-husband. He has also stated in his counter
 affidavit that the complainant had falsely claimed herself to be the
 legally wedded wife of respondent no. 2, and had threatened him that
 she will force him to marry her and accept her two children, and had Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 16 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 also demanded Rs.5,00,000/- or to marry her sister. It is further stated
 that she had made defamatory comments on social media about
 respondent no. 2, and had also uploaded pictures of the house of
 respondent no. 2 on her facebook account with a comment "Mujhe
 Saajjan Kay Ghar Jaana Hai..." due to which many of local friends
 and relatives of respondent no. 2 who reside in Doda in Union
 Territory of Jammu & Kashmir had come to know about the same
 and had raised questions about it. It is stated that he had lodged
 several complaints at Doda, Jammu & Kashmir. It is further stated
 that it is a typical case of misuse of law, particularly Section 376 of IPC, by a lady like present petitioner as a tool to pressurize
 men like respondent no. 2 to surrender before her and to accept
 her illegitimate demands. It is stated that he had never made
 physical relations with her, without her consent, and even she has not
 mentioned about any kind of resistance by her. It is stated that the
 petitioner is still married to her previous husband. He states that it is
 shocking that she had earlier projected herself as a virgin but
 divorcee, and then informed that she was a mother of two children
 but still, she is not even divorced till date. 19. Having gone through the contents of counter-affidavit filed on
 record on behalf of accused/respondent no. 2, this Court is of the
 opinion that use of inappropriate and derogatory language,
 undermining the dignity of individuals, based on their gender, falls
 beyond the permissible bounds of language expected in legal
 pleadings. i. Necessity of Reasonable Diligence While Drafting Pleadings 20. In this Court‟s opinion, reasonable diligence must be followed
 while drafting pleadings. This necessitates refraining from the use of
 derogatory or offensive language against the opposite party. The goal
 is to ensure that all legal pleadings maintain the highest standards of
 respect, and legal ethics as well as promote the goal of justice for the
 person filing it, thereby fostering a legal system that is not just
 equitable, but respectable too. 21. By actively challenging and discarding gender stereotypes in
 their language, actions, and interactions, legal fraternity can
 contribute to dismantling entrenched and hidden biases that have
 persisted in our society for far too long. This necessitates avoiding
 the use of derogatory terms that perpetuate stereotypes and
 undermine the dignity and rights of individuals based on their gender.
 It is incumbent upon the legal community to champion a culture of
 gender sensitivity, embracing the values of fairness and respect in
 both their professional conduct and the legal documents they create
 with their hard work and art of drafting at their command. 22. In this regard, this Court is also of the opinion that use of such
 language in the pleadings goes against the basic minimum standard
 expected for promoting a gender just environment as has been
 also been reiterated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court by releasing
 the 'Handbook on Combating Gender Stereotypes' which aims to
 assist judges and the legal community in identifying,
 understating, and combating stereotypes about women which Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 18 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 may be used while drafting pleadings as well as orders and
 judgments. ii. Balancing the Use of 'Strong Language' with the Cause of
 Justice 23. The adversarial nature of our criminal legal system can
 sometimes lead one of the parties to employ strong language in an
 attempt to advance their interests. Lawyers are entitled to present
 their clients' cases to the best of their abilities while maintaining
 fairness. However, this does not justify the use of offensive, abusive,
 disrespectful, derogatory, and misogynistic language in pursuit of this
 goal. This case serves as a gentle reminder to all involved in the
 judicial process that they should refrain from using such derogatory
 and demeaning language. Such language is not only offensive but
 also damaging to the honor and reputation of the parties involved. 24. While strong language may be necessary at times in legal
 pleadings to further the cause of justice, it must not cross the line into
 offensiveness and should always be in keeping with the dignity of the
 legal profession. The pleadings should, as far as possible, maintain a
 dignified tone. 25. However, in furthering his cause, the respondent no. 2 herein
 became unmindful of the fact that he used disrespectful and
 stereotypical language in the counter affidavit. The case of the
 accused and the pleadings could have been equally forceful without
 resorting to use of derogatory phrases such as „art of seduction‟, Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 19 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 „wicked or villainous designs‟, and „seductive talks full of fake
 affection.‟ 26. This Court, while respecting the rights of parties to present
 their arguments, emphasizes that both litigating parties and their
 counsels have a responsibility to comment in a manner that upholds
 the cause of justice. As officers of the Court, they should hold the
 pleadings to a higher standard. The content as incorporated in the
 counter affidavit should have been avoided, as the same exceeds the
 limits of propriety which must be maintained while drafting of
 pleadings. The use of such derogatory words as mentioned in the
 preceding paragraphs should have been avoided as even sans them,
 the force and effect of the pleading would have been the same. 27. The use of infelicitous language transgressing on the character
 of the woman and to state that her marital status made her lesser than
 a person or a woman and the marital status of the man in question
 entitled him to a virgin woman and an unmarried person could not
 have had sexual relationship with a woman already married was not
 only derogatory but affront to the principles of equality, dignity and
 respect. 28. While exercising judicial restraint, this Court refrains from
 recording additional observations on this issue. However, it
 emphasizes the importance of exercising caution when drafting and
 filing pleadings or documents in a Court of law, irrespective of the
 gender of the individuals involved. CONCLUSION AND DIRECTIONS 29. In the present case, in addition to challenging the grant of
 anticipatory bail to the accused, the complainant was also aggrieved
 by the fact that the learned ASJ vide order dated 13.10.2020 had
 given certain findings on the merits of the case at the stage of grant of
 anticipatory bail itself, thereby virtually exonerating the accused of
 all charges and rendering the trial a mere formaility. 30. As already taken note of in preceding discussion, the learned
 ASJ in the impugned order, while granting anticipatory bail to the
 accused, had recorded several findings on the merits of the case
 including observations that it appeared that the complainant was
 trying to harass the accused, without expressing that such
 observations were solely for the purpose of deciding bail application
 and were not to be considered as its opinion on the merits of the case. 31. In this Court‟s opinion, the situation could have unfolded
 differently had the case been at the stage of charge or final disposal
 after evidence had been led and after the prosecution agency had
 collected evidence and filed a chargesheet. However, the impugned
 order pertains to grant of anticipatory bail to the accused, merely
 within a period of two months from the date of registration of FIR. 32. While there is no dispute on the proposition that the Courts are
 authorized as well as judicially required to record reasons while
 granting or denying bail, drawing conclusive findings even before the
 investigation is complete and evidence is collected, solely based on
 the contents of FIR and arguments addressed before the Court at the
 time of hearing of anticipatory bail application, should be avoided. 33. In this background, this Court deems it appropriate to issue the
 following directions/guidelines: 34. Recording such an observation is necessary since at the
 preliminary stages, such as at the time of grant of anticipatory bail
 and when the investigation is not complete, the concerned Judge will
 not have the advantage of the investigation carried out by the
 prosecution and the material collected in support thereof including
 documents, evidence and statements of witnesses, and thus, only
 prima-facie observations are made for the purpose of deciding such Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 22 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50 bail applications. This would also ensure that none of the parties use
 the observations recorded by the concerned Court in an order to their
 advantage at the stage of final disposal of the case. 35. Insofar as the prayer regarding cancellation of bail is
 concerned, for the reasons recorded in paragraph no. 15, there are no
 grounds for cancellation of anticipatory bail granted to the
 accused/respondent no. 2 by virtue of impugned order. 36. Thus, in view of aforesaid observations and directions, the
 present petition stands disposed of. 37. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
 SEPTEMBER 13, 2023/ns Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C.2159/2020 Page 23 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:22.09.2023 20:16:50