1 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH,
 SHIMLA

 . Cr.MP(M) No. 596 of 2020. Date of Decision : May 04, 2020. The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Anoop Chitkara, Judge. COURT PROCEEDINGS CONVENED THROUGH VIDEO

 CONFERENCE

Anoop Chitkara, Judge. For possessing 8.88 grams of Herion

(Diacetylmorphine), the petitioner, who is under arrest, on being
arraigned as accused in FIR Number 19 of 2020, dated

17.3.2020, registered under Section 21 of the Narcotic Drugs
and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (after now called " NDPS
Act "), in Police Station Swarghat, District Bilaspur, HP, disclosing
non-bailable offences, has come up before this Court under Section 439 CrPC, seeking regular bail. 2. While issuing notices to the State, the Court had
requested Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, Additional Advocate General to
have telephonic instructions in the matter from the concerned 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Police Station, and to procure status report immediately, either
through WhatsApp/ e-mail and forward the same to this Court on
e-mail id [email protected] and also send the scanned copy or

 . PDF copy of the status report to the learned Counsel for the
petitioner on his WhatsApp number. 3. Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, learned Additional Advocate

General has filed the status report through e-mail, printout
whereof has been placed on record. He further submits that he
has sent a copy of the status report to Mr. Kirti Singh Thakur,

Advocate, learned Counsel for the petitioner on his WhatsApp
number. 4. I have read the status report(s) and heard counsel for

the parties through video conference. 5. The petitioner did not file any power of attorney. To
contain the spread of Novel Corona Virus, the Epidemiologists

have advised to maintain social distancing in the entire world.
Consequently, to avoid unnecessary congregation, this Court
exempts the petitioner from filing the power of attorney. 6. Prior to the present bail petition, the petitioner had filed

bail petition under Section 439 CrPC, before learned Special
Judge, Bilaspur. However, vide order dated 24.4.2020, passed in

Bail Application No.66/22 of 2019, the Court had dismissed the
petition. FACTS 7. The gist of the First Information Report and the status
report is that on 17.3.2020, when the police party was on
patrolling duty at Swarghat Chowk, then HRTC bus came from
Kiratpur side. The I.O. signaled the driver to stop the bus. When
the Police party was conducting the search of the luggage of the
passengers, one boy on seat No.9, on seeing the police became ::: Downloaded on - 04/05/2020 20:22:57 :::HCHP 3 perplexed and threw a packet, which he was carrying in his
hand, on the floor. On this the police, after associating the
driver and conductor of the bus, conducted inquiry and he could

 . not give satisfactory reply. Upon this the police picked up the
packet and on opening the same, yellow coloured substance was
recovered, which based upon the experience of the I.O., was

heroin. The police tested the same with the help of drug
detection kit, which detected positive for heroin. On weighing
the same, it measured 8.88 grams. Subsequently, the Police

party also complied with the procedural requirements under the NDPS Act and the CrPC and arrested the petitioner.
PREVIOUS CRIMINAL HISTORY 8. As per the counsel for the petitioner as well as the
status report the following cases are registered against the
petitioner: - 18-29, NDPS Act , Police Station Ghumarwin, District
 Bilaspur, H.P.

SUBMISSIONS: 9. The learned counsel for the bail petitioner submits that

the allegations against the petitioner are false and he has
nothing to do with the said allegations. He further states that
petitioner has to shoulder responsibility of his family and also
submitted that his bail petition be considered on humanitarian
grounds in view of the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.
ANALYSIS AND REASONING: 10. Pre-trial incarceration needs justification depending
upon the heinous nature of the offence, terms of the sentence
prescribed in the Statute for such a crime, probability of the ::: Downloaded on - 04/05/2020 20:22:57 :::HCHP 4 accused fleeing from justice, hampering the investigation, and
doing away with victim(s) and/or witnesses. The Court is under
an obligation to maintain a balance between all stakeholders

 . and safeguard the interests of the victim, accused, society, and
State. 11. Section 2 (vii-a) of the NDPS Act defines commercial

quantity as the quantity greater than the quantity specified in
the schedule, and S. 2 (xxiii-a), defines a small quantity as the
quantity lesser than the quantity specified in the schedule of NDPS Act . The remaining quantity falls in an undefined category,
which is now generally called as intermediate quantity. All
Sections in the NDPS Act , which specify an offense, also mention

that minimum and maximum sentence, depending upon the
quantity of the substance. Commercial quantity mandates
minimum sentence of ten years of imprisonment and a minimum

fine of Rupees One hundred thousand, and bail is subject to the
riders mandated in S. 37 of NDPS Act. 12. The following aspects are relevant to decide the present

bail petition: Resultantly, the present case has to be treated like any
 other case of grant of bail in a penal offence. c) Although there is criminal history of the bail

 . petitioner and on this ground previously the Court
 below had rejected the bail application of the petitioner.
 But keeping in view the current Covid-19 pandemic, the

 petitioner has come up again before this Court on the
 grounds that his family is facing extreme financial
 difficulty and the family is extremely concerned about

 each other. Without this case being cited as a
 precedent, keeping in view the peculiar
 circumstances coupled with the fact that the

 Heroin recovered from the petitioner was just
 8.88 grams, whereas, small quantity is lesser
 than 5 grams, and consequently the quantity

 involved in this case is extremely close to small
 quantity with difference of just below four grams,
 this Court is inclined to afford last opportunity to

 the Petitioner to mend his ways, making it very

 clear that in case, the petitioner repeats the
 offence, then this bail shall automatically stand

 cancelled and it shall also be a factor for future
 bail applications by the petitioner. (d) The material aspect of the investigation is
 complete. (e) The petitioner is in judicial custody since
 17.3.2020. (f) The petitioner is a permanent resident of
 address mentioned in the memo of parties; therefore,
 his presence can always be secured. (g) Before releasing the petitioner from custody,
 her/his AADHAR and other proofs of identity to secure
 presence during trial. . 8. Given the above reasoning, in my considered opinion, the
judicial custody of the petitioner is not going to achieve any

significant purpose. Thus, the Court is granting bail, subject to
the following conditions, irrespective of the contents of the bail
bonds, and the furnishing of personal bond shall be deemed

acceptance of all stipulations, terms and conditions of this bail
order: . (c) The petitioner shall join investigation as and when
 called by the Investigating officer or any superior
 officer. Whenever the investigation takes place within

 the boundaries of the Police Station or the Police Post,
 then the petitioner shall not be called before 8 AM and
 shall be let off before 5 PM. The petitioner shall not be

 subjected to third-degree treatment, indecent language
 etc. (d) The petitioner shall fully co-operate in the

 investigation and shall not hamper it, in any manner
 what so ever. (e) The petitioner shall not influence, threaten,

 browbeat or pressurize the complainant, witnesses, and
 the Police official(s). (f) The petitioner shall not make any inducement,

 threat, or promise, directly or indirectly, to the

 Investigating officer, or any other person acquainted
 with the facts of the case, to dissuade her from

 disclosing such facts to the Police, or the Court, or
 tamper with the evidence. (g) The petitioner shall appear before the trial Court,
 on issuance of summons/warrants by such Court. (h) There shall be a presumption of proper service to
 the petitioner about the date of hearing in the trial
 Court, even if such service takes place through
 phone/mobile/SMS/WhatsApp/E-Mail/Facebook or any
 other similar medium, by the trial Court, or by the ::: Downloaded on - 04/05/2020 20:22:57 :::HCHP 8 Prosecution. In case the petitioner does not appear
 before the trial Court on such date of hearing, then the
 trial Court may issue bailable warrants, and if the

 . petitioner still fails to put in appearance, then the trial
 Court may issue Non-Bailable warrants to procure the
 presence of the petitioner, and send the petitioner to

 the Judicial custody for the period for which the trial
 Court may deem fit and proper, without being unduly
 harsh towards him. (i) The petitioner shall attend the trial on each date,
 unless exempted. (j) In case of Non-appearance on the intimated date,

 then irrespective of the contents of the bail bonds, the
 petitioner undertakes to pay all the expenditure (only
 the principal amount without interest), that the State

 might incur to produce him before such Court, provided
 such amount exceeds the amount recoverable after
 forfeiture of the bail bonds, subject to the provisions of Sections 446 & 446-A of CrPC. The failure of the

 petitioner to reimburse the State shall entitle the trial
 Court to order transfer of money from the bank

 account(s) of the petitioner. However, this recovery is
 subject to the condition that the expenditure incurred
 must be only to trace the petitioner and relates to the
 exercise undertaken solely to nab the petitioner in that
 FIR, and during that voyage, the Police had not gone for
 any other purpose/function what so ever. (k) The petitioner shall abstain from all criminal
 activities, if he does so, then in the fresh FIR, the Court ::: Downloaded on - 04/05/2020 20:22:57 :::HCHP 9 shall take into account that even earlier the Court had
 cautioned the accused not to repeat the offence. (l) During the pendency of the trial, if the petitioner

 . commits any offence under NDPS Act , even if it involves
 small quantity or if he commits any offence where the
 sentence prescribed is seven years or more, then this

 bail order shall stand cancelled automatically. In such a
 situation, the bail already granted to the petitioner in
 previous case registered against him, (as mentioned

 supra), vide FIR No.16/2020, shall be liable to be
 cancelled and the State shall move appropriate
 application for its cancellation. (m) The petitioner shall surrender all firearms along
 with ammunitions, if any, and the arms license to the
 concerned authority within 30 days from today. (n) The petitioner shall inform the SHO about the place
 of residence during trial. The petitioner shall intimate
 about the change of residential address, within two

 weeks from such change, to the police station, and after

 filing of the Police report also to the trial Court. (o) In case of violation of any of the conditions as

 stipulated in this order, the State/Public Prosecutor may
 file an application for cancellation of bail of the
 petitioner, and even the trial Court shall be competent
 to cancel the bail. 16. In case the petitioner finds the bail condition(s) as violating
fundamental or other rights, including any human rights, or
faces any other difficulty due to any condition, then for
modification of such term(s), the petitioner may file a reasoned ::: Downloaded on - 04/05/2020 20:22:57 :::HCHP 10 application before this Court, and after taking cognizance,
before the Court taking cognizance or the trial Court, as the case
may be. . 17. The Counsel representing the accused and the Judicial
officer accepting the bail bonds, shall explain all conditions of
this bail order to the petitioner, in vernacular. 18. The petitioner undertakes to comply with all directions
given in this order, and the furnishing of bail bonds by the
petitioner is acceptance of all such conditions. 19. Consequently, the petitioner shall be released on bail in
the present case, in connection with the FIR mentioned above,
on his furnishing personal bond in the aforesaid terms. 20. The Court attesting the personal bonds shall ascertain the
identity of the bail-petitioner, his family members, through
AADHAR Card. The petitioner shall give details of AADHAR Card,

phone number(s), WhatsApp number, e-mail, Facebook account,
etc., Pan Card and Passport if available, on the reverse page of
the personal bonds. The petitioner shall also furnish details of

personal bank account(s). 21. This order does not, in any manner, limit or restrict the
rights of the Police or the investigating agency, from further

investigation. 22. The present bail order is only for the FIR mentioned above.
It shall not be a blanket order of bail in all other cases, if any,
registered against the petitioner. 23. The SHO/Additional SHO of the concerned Police Station or
the Investigating Officer shall send a copy of this order,
preferably a soft copy, to the complainant. 24. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an
expression of opinion on the merits of the case, nor shall the
trial Court advert to these comments. . 25. The petition stands allowed in the terms mentioned above. 26. The Court Master shall handover this order to the
concerned branch of the Registry of this Court, and the said

official shall immediately send a copy of this order to the District
and Sessions Judge, concerned, by e-mail. The Court attesting
the personal bonds shall not insist upon the certified copy of this

order, and shall download the same from the website of this
Court, which shall be sufficient for the purposes of the record. The Court Master shall handover an authenticated copy of 27.

this order to the Counsel for the Petitioner, and to the Learned
Advocate General, if they ask for the same. (Anoop Chitkara),
 Judge. May 04, 2020 (ps) ::: Downloaded on - 04/05/2020 20:22:57 :::HCHP