1. Apprehending arrest in connection with Alipore Police
Station Case No.15 of 2021 dated 17th February, of 2021 under
Sections 498A/306/34 and later added Sections 406 / 304B of the
Indian Penal Code (in short, IPC ), the present application has
been preferred. 2. Shorn of unnecessary details, the facts are that upon
negotiation between two families, the petitioner's marriage with
the victim was held on 9th February, 2020 at Umaid Bhawan
Palace, Jodhpur. After marriage the couple immediately left for
honeymoon to Dubai and Oman for about six days. Upon
returning to India, the petitioner's family arranged a post
marriage celebration on 23rd February, 2020 in their ancestral
house at Purulia. Thereafter the couple attended various parties
and ceremonies together. From November, 2020 till 11th
February, 2021, the couple visited different places. But
unfortunately thereafter on 16th February, 2021 the victim fell
down from the 3rd floor of her matrimonial house and succumbed
to her injuries. On 17th February, 2021 the victim's father lodged
a complaint and the present case was registered under Sections
498A / 306 / 34 of IPC. In continuation with the said complaint,
the victim's father submitted a further representation dated 25 th
February, 2021. In course of investigation, Sections 406 / 304B of
IPC were added at the behest of the investigating agency.
Alleging inter alia that the victim's family members were
publishing disturbing and defamatory statements, the petitioner's 3 father preferred a Title Suit No.208 of 2021 and in an application
under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 read with Section 151 of the Civil
Procedure Code filed in connection with the said suit an order
was passed on 25th June, 2021 restraining the defendant nos.2
to 4 therein from publishing any defamatory and derogatory
statements or news, posts, videos. Alleging inter alia that the
victim's father had operated a bank locker, jointly held by him
and the victim, suppressing the fact that the victim had already
expired, petitioner's cousin, namely, Rahul Agarwal lodged a
complaint on 22nd July, 2021 and the same was registered as
Kalighat Police Station Case No.78 of 2021 dated 22nd July, 2021
under Sections 404 , 406 , 409 , 388 , 506 and 120B of IPC. In the
same a progress report was submitted by the Sub-Inspector of
Kalighat Police Station on 8th September, 2021. In the midst
thereof, on 17th April, 2021 a non-bailable warrant of arrest was
issued against the petitioner and an anticipatory bail application
was initially preferred before the learned Court below on 24th
May, 2021 when the case diary was called for. On 29 th May,
2021 though the case diary was produced the petitioner's
advocate prayed for repeated adjournments on 2nd June, 2021
and on 9th June, 2021. Surprisingly on 15th June, 2021 the
petitioner withdrew the said application with liberty to file afresh.
Thereafter the present application was filed before this Court in
the month of October, 2021. The application was heard on 8th
November, 2021 and a coordinate Bench of this Court observed
that 'since we are in the process of hearing this application for
anticipatory bail, we trust and hope that no adverse action shall be
taken against the petitioner till the disposal of the application'. 3. Mr. Luthra, learned senior advocate appearing for the
petitioner submits that the relationship between the victim and
her in-laws was cordial throughout. There was no demand for
dowry and the victim was never treated cruelly. Even in the first
complaint lodged by the victim's father on 17th February, 2021,
there is no allegation to the effect that there was any demand for
dowry. About a week thereafter on 25th February, 2021, a further
representation was submitted by him alleging that there had
been incessant demand of various articles from the victim and
her family. There is no proximate nexus between the death of the
victim and cruelty based on dowry and the ingredients of Section
304B of IPC are not attracted. In support of such contention
reliance has been placed upon the judgments delivered in the
cases of Satbir Singh versus State of Haryana , reported in (2021)
16 SCC 1 and Bansi Lal versus State of Punjab, reported in (2011)
11 SCC 477. 4. He further argues that the petitioner had not in any
manner instigated or facilitated to cause the unfortunate death of
the victim and as such the ingredients of Section 306 are also not
attracted. A composite consideration of the factual sequence
would reveal that the victim committed suicide in which the
petitioner or his family members had no role to play. 5. Drawing the attention of this Court to various documents
annexed to the application, Mr. Luthra submits that in the
month of June, 2020 the victim began complaining about issues
concerning her vision and accordingly the petitioner immediately
consulted an ophthalmologist at Fortis hospital on 9th September, 5 2020 and it was diagnosed that the victim was suffering from a
condition medically termed as CSR (Central Serous Retinopathy).
Thereafter the victim herself consulted one Dr. Rajdip Hazra, who
in his prescription dated 16th June, 2020 observed that she was
suffering from depression and was advised to consult a
psychiatrist. In the month of November, 2020 the victim also
consulted a gynaecologist, namely, Dr. Pallavi Daga, who advised
her to consult a psychiatrist for her stress related depression.
The victim also consulted one Piya Banerjee, a counsellor and a
psychotherapist. In the said conspectus it cannot be ruled out
that the victim was suffering from psychiatric problems and there
is a proximate nexus between such problems and her
unfortunate death on 16th February, 2021. 6. Drawing the attention of this Court to several seizure lists
annexed to the application, Mr. Luthra submits that during the
period from 16th February, 2021 till 28th July, 2021 seizure was
conducted on several occasions and various articles were seized.
Referring to the documents annexed to a supplementary affidavit,
he apprises this Court that the petitioner himself wrote to the
police authorities on 11th November, 2021 and stated that he
would be present for investigation purpose. In reply thereto, the
investigating authority called the petitioner on 17th November,
2021, 23rd November, 2021 and 29th December, 2021. He duly
appeared and cooperated with the investigation and his
statements were recorded. 7. He argues that the victim's family members were
publishing disturbing and defamatory statements to tarnish the 6 reputation of the petitioner and his family by launching a
vilification campaign and as such the petitioner's father was
constrained to prefer a Title Suit No.208 of 2021 and in an
application for interim relief an order was passed on 25th June,
2021 restraining the defendant nos.2 to 4 therein from
publishing any defamatory and derogatory statements or news,
posts, videos. 8. Referring to a progress report submitted by the Sub-
Inspector of Kalighat Police Station in the Kalighat Police Station
Case No.78 of 2021 on 8th September, 2021, Mr. Luthra submits
that all the jewellery in the victim's locker in Axis Bank had been
fraudulently misappropriated by the de facto complainant. 9. He contends that the provision towards grant of
anticipatory bail is a part of fair procedure and is pro-liberty. As
the circumstances of the present case do not indicate any
behaviour on the part of the petitioner that he would flee from
justice or that he may influence the witnesses, he may be granted
anticipatory bail on any stringent condition. In support of such
contention reliance has been placed upon the judgment delivered
in the case Sushila Aggarwal versus State (NCT of Delhi ), reported
in (2020) 5 SCC 1. 10. He argues that the victim's advocate cannot make oral
arguments upon placing reliance upon documents which are not
in the case diary inasmuch as such act goes beyond a mere
assistive role and constitutes a parallel prosecution proceeding
by itself. In support of such contention reliance has been placed
upon the judgments delivered in the cases of Rekha Murarka 7 versus State of West Bengal and another , reported in (2020) 2
SCC 474 and Rakesh Bairagi versus State of West Bengal. 11. Mr. Mukherjee learned Public Prosecutor opposes the
petitioner's prayer drawing our attention to the statements
recorded by the witnesses, including the doctors and submits
that the couple was having a strained relationship which affected
the victim's state of mind and she could not overcome the
consequential depression and trauma in spite of her best
endeavour and in view thereof, the link between such
matrimonial discord and her sudden death cannot be ruled out. 12. He argues that many witnesses including Bikas Yadav, a
driver and Sagar Munda, a cook are the employees of the
petitioner and there is every possibility that they would be
tactically groomed and pressurised by him and his family
members to give statements in their favour. 13. He argues that investigation is still in progress and
grant of any protection against custodial interrogation would
render questioning the suspect being the petitioner herein, to be
a mere ritual. The answers given by the petitioner in course of
interrogation on 17th November, 2021, 23rd November, 2021 and
29th December would reveal his non-cooperation with the
investigation. 14. Mr. Kalyan Bandyopadhyay, learned advocate appearing
for the de facto complainant submits that on 16th February, 2021
the de facto complainant's daughter expired and he was not in a
position to comprehend and narrate all the facts and incidents in
a nutshell on 17th February, 2021 and as such a further 8 representation was submitted on 25th February, 2021 detailing
all the facts pertaining to dowry demand and other instances of
cruelty and harassment. Non-incorporation of the details in the
initial complaint dated 17th February, 2021 cannot be construed
to be any flaw more so when, FIR is not meant to be an
encyclopaedia nor is expected to contain all the details. In
support of such contention reliance has been placed upon a
judgment delivered in the case of V.K. Mishra -vs- State of
Uttarakhand, reported in 2015 (9) SCC 588. According to him,
the investigation had been conducted in a perfunctory manner.
Immediate steps were not taken by the Investigating Officer (in
short, I.O.) to recover all incriminating materials. Placing reliance
upon judgments delivered in the cases of State of Rajasthan
versus Jaggu Ram , reported in ( 2008) 12 SCC 51, Dr. Naresh
Kumar Mangla versus Anita Agarwal and others , reported in 2020
SCC Online SC 1031 and some WhatsApp messages, he submits
that the victim had always been taunted and mentally tortured
by her husband and her other in-laws for which she was
depressed and was instigated to commit suicide. The petitioner is
a drug addict and he always used to communicate with his ex-
girlfriends stating that he was forced to marry the victim. The
death occurred otherwise than under normal circumstances and
as such the ingredients of Section 304-B are clearly attracted.
Grant of anticipatory bail in such a serious offence would operate
to obstruct the investigation. In support of such contention
reliance has been placed upon a judgment delivered in the case
of Dr. Naresh Kumar Mangla versus Anita Agarwal and others ,
reported in 2020 SCC Online SC 1031. 15. He submits that though the warrant of arrest was
issued on 17th April, 2021, no steps were taken by the I.O. to
arrest the petitioner and thereafter on the basis of the
observations made by a co-ordinate Bench of this Court on 8th
November, 2021, the warrant was recalled on 10th November,
2021. A party cannot be allowed to take advantage on the basis
of such act of the Court. In support of such contention, reliance
has been placed upon the judgments delivered in the cases of Cantonment Board v. K.P. Singh reported in (2010) 2 SCC 518,
Kala Bharati Advertising v. Hemant Vimalnath Narichania,
reported in ( 2010) 9 SCC 437, Prasanna Kumar Roy Karmakar v.
State of West Bengal & Ors. , reported in (1996) 3 SCC 403. 16. He submits that the petitioner wields influence upon the
witnesses, as would be explicit from the report of the I.O. dated
15th August, 2021 wherein it has inter alia been stated that the
witnesses, who were employees of the petitioner, were being
tactically groomed and pressurised by the accused family to give
statements in their favour. 17. He argues that there can be no manner of doubt that
right from the occurrence of the incident till the decision of the
trial, the victim's family is as much interested in the decision as
is the accused or the State. At the time of hearing of an
application for anticipatory bail, the complainant's advocate
cannot be debarred from pointing out the factual details. In
support of such contention, reliance has been placed upon the
judgments delivered in the cases of Kanaka Rekha Naik v. Manoj
Kumar Pradhan, reported in (2011) 4 SCC 596, Debasish Bose v. State of West Bengal, reported in 2015 SCC OnLine Cal 163 and
Vinay Poddar v. State of Maharashtra, reported in 2008 SCC
OnLine Bom 1389. 18. In reply, Mr. Luthra submits that the mobile phones of
the victim and other mobile phone pertaining to the de facto
complainant were seized in the month of March, 2021. At the
time of such seizure the passwords were not disclosed, as would
be explicit from the seizure list itself and as such, a Section 91 notice was issued to provide the passwords and other particulars.
Placing reliance upon a progress report dated 6th February, 2022
filed by the I.O. in the Kalighat P.S. Case No.78 dated 22nd July
2021, he submits that the allegation that the petitioner may
influence the witnesses, namely, Bikash Yadav and Sagar Munda
is absolutely unfounded. Let the certified copy of the said report,
as produced, be kept on record. 19. In the case of Rekha Murarka (Supra) it has inter alia
been observed that the extent of assistance by the victim's
counsel would depend on the facts and circumstances of each
case. There is no absolute bar that the victim's counsel cannot be
heard in an application for anticipatory bail. However, we have
not considered the WhatsApp messages, upon which reliance was
placed by Mr. Bandyopadhyay, since the said documents are not
there in the case diary. 20. We do not find any application of the maxim actus
curiae neminem gravabit in the facts of the present case and the
judgments delivered in writ appeals in the cases of Cantonment
Board (Supra), Kala Bharati Advertising (Supra) and Prasanna 11 Kumar Roy Karmakar (Supra), upon which reliance has been
placed by Mr. Bandyopadhyay, are not applicable. There is no
dispute as regards the proposition of law as laid down in the
other judgments upon which reliance has been placed by the
respective parties. However, a decision is an authority for what it
decides and not what can logically be deduced therefrom. Even a
slight difference in fact or an additional fact may make a lot of
differences in the decision making process. The grant or rejection
of anticipatory bail will almost always be based upon the given
sets of facts and situations. 21. In the decision of the Hon'ble Constitution Bench in Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of Delhi ) [(2020) 5 SCC 1], upon
which reliance has been placed on behalf of the petitioner, the
considerations which ought to weigh with the Court in deciding
an application for the grant of anticipatory bail have been
reiterated. The final conclusions of the Court indicate that: 22. The death of the victim occurred otherwise than under
normal circumstances within a year and a week after her
marriage. The offence is of serious nature. In the case diary
there is a Whatsapp message sent by the victim just before her
death to her father on 16th February, 2021 at 2.03 pm which
appears to be incriminatory in nature. A composite reading of
the statements of Dr. Rajdip Hazra, Dr. Pallavi Daga and Piya
Banerjee prima facie reflect that there was a matrimonial discord
and such strain relationship was contributory towards the
victim's low mood depression. In the complaint and the
statements of the complainant and his other family members, as
recorded under Sections 161 and 164 of the Code, specific
allegations have been levelled against the petitioner. Facts and
figures of the incessant demands have been detailed involving
crores. The mobile phones, one iPad and two laptops, as seized
by the I.O. have been sent for forensic examination with a prayer
to provide the details of storage items like the contacts, photos,
SMS, Whatsapp chat and other details. The final report is still
awaited. 23. In their statements as recorded on 5th August, 2021
under Section 161 of the Code, one Bikas Yadav, who is the
driver and one Sagar Munda, who is the cook, employed by the
petitioner's family, had stated inter alia that they are under
pressure of losing their jobs. Thereafter they were served notices 13 for recording their statements under Section 164 of the Code but
they refused to record their statements. However, from the
progress report in the Kalighat P.S. Case No.78 dated 22nd July
2021 preferred against the de facto complainant and others it
appears that Bikash Yadav and Sagar Munda volunteered to give
their statements under Section 164 of the Code and such
statements were also recorded. Contrary stand has been taken by
Bikas Yadav and Sagar Munda in the present case and in the Kalighat P.S. Case No.78 dated 22nd July 2021 preferred against
the de facto complainant and others. In view thereof, prima facie,
it cannot be ruled out that the petitioner wields influence upon
the said witnesses. 24. The records further reveal that on the basis of the
materials collected, the I.O. submitted a prayer for inclusion of Section 304-B and 306 of IPC. Such prayer was considered and
allowed by the learned Court below. Even after search was
conducted at different places, the petitioner could not be arrested
and as such the warrant of arrest was issued against the
petitioner on 17th April, 2021. Raid was also conducted on 21st
April, 2021 by the I.O. in the native place of the petitioner at
Purulia but the petitioner could not be arrested. The anticipatory
bail application was initially preferred before the learned Court
below on 24th May, 2021 when the case diary was called for. On
29th May, 2021 though the case diary was produced, the
petitioner's advocate prayed for repeated adjournments on 2nd
June, 2021 and on 9th June, 2021. Surprisingly on 15th June,
2021 the petitioner withdrew the anticipatory bail application
with liberty to file afresh. Pursuant to such liberty, the petitioner 14 did not approach the learned Court below but simply waited and
filed the present application before this Court in the month of
October, 2021. Thereafter on the basis of the observations made
by co-ordinate Bench of this Court on 8th November, 2021, the
warrant was recalled on 10th November, 2021. It is only thereafter
that the petitioner met with the I.O. and recorded his statements
under Section 161 . Such statements have been brought on
record by way of a supplementary affidavit. From such sequence
of facts it appears that the petitioner was not available for
interrogation and investigation for about nine months from the
date of the alleged incident till the month of November, 2021. 25. In a case like this effective interrogation of suspected
person is of tremendous advantage in disinterring useful
information. Success in such interrogation would elude if the
suspected person know that he is well protected and insulated by
a pre-arrest bail order during the time he is interrogated. Very
often interrogation in such a condition would be a mere ritual. 26. Applying the parameters for grant of anticipatory bail,
as discussed in the Constitution Bench judgment in Sushila
Aggarwal v. State (NCT of Delhi ) [(2020) 5 SCC 1, to the facts of
the case, we are not inclined to exercise our discretion in favour
of the petitioner and his prayer for anticipatory bail is refused. 27. The application being, CRM No.7164 of 2021, is
dismissed. 28. The case diary be returned to Mr. Mukherjee, the
learned Public Prosecutor appearing for the State. 29. Urgent photostat certified copy of this order, if applied
for, be supplied to the parties, upon compliance of all requisite
formalities. 30. All parties shall act on the server copies of this order
duly downloaded from the official website of this Court. (Sugato Majumdar, J.) (Tapabrata Chakraborty, J.)