1. The criminal complaint bearing CC No. 133/2010, pending
before the Special Electricity Court, Saket, New Delhi has been filed
by the BSES/respondent No.1 against the petitioner alleging that
direct theft of electricity was detected at the petitioner's premises
bearing No. Flat 1260, Sector D, Pocket I, Vasant Kunj, Delhi. 2. It is alleged in the complaint that after the inspection of the
petitioner's premises on 30th June, 2010, by a team from the
Enforcement Department of the respondent no.1, duly authorised to
conduct inspections, and the issuance of the Theft Bill on 3rd July, Crl.MC No.1002/2011 Page 1 of 9 2010, the petitioner had filed a criminal writ petition bearing W.P.
(CrI.) No. 1116/2010 before this Court, which was dismissed vide
order dated 2nd August, 2010. Against the said order dismissing the
writ petition, the petitioner then filed a Letters Patent Appeal bearing
L.P.A. No. 649/2010. The said appeal with the leave of this Court
was dismissed as withdrawn. It is alleged by the BSES/respondent
No.1 that the petitioner, instead of presenting her defence before the
Trial Court, she has filed the present petition which is not
maintainable. 3. The BSES/respondent No.1 had alleged that the petitioner
admits that there was no electricity supply to her premises since 30th
July, 2007. The team from the Enforcement Department of the
respondent No.1, duly authorised to conduct inspections, had
inspected the premises of the petitioner on 30th June, 2010. The team
found that the electricity supply to the petitioner's premises was
running directly through 2 numbers illegal D.T. wires from BSES BUS
BAR, and the entire load of the said premises was connected to it.
The petitioner did not have a regular connection and no meter was
found at the site. The petitioner was present at site during the
inspection and she created a huge ruckus and started abusing the
enforcement team members. Faced with this opposition, the
enforcement team members called for police assistance, and with
great difficulty were able to record the load of the premises, which
was found to be 14.383 KW for domestic use, which included load for
three numbers window air conditioners. However, they failed to carry Crl.MC No.1002/2011 Page 2 of 9 out videography of the proceedings, except whatever could be
managed from outside the premises. The petitioner in the present
case has filed only some of the pages of the inspection proceedings,
although she has in her possession the complete copies. The
complete copy of the inspection report, the meter report, the load
report and the seizure memo has been filed by respondent No.1. 4. It is also the case of BSES/respondent No.1 that as the
electricity was being drawn directly and the petitioner was the
beneficiary of direct theft, the petitioner was booked for theft of
electricity. Accordingly, an assessment bill for theft of electricity for an
amount of Rs.1,61,830/- was issued to the petitioner. 5. As the petitioner failed to pay the theft bill, a complaint under Section 135 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as the
"Act") was initiated against the petitioner before the Special Electricity
Court, Saket, New Delhi. 6. The petitioner who appeared in person was asked to pay
reasonable amount without interest to the complainant in order to
resolve the issue in hand but she was not agreeable for the same.
Even learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent No.1
upon instruction has informed the Court that new connection has
been installed and she has been paying the electricity charges as per
consumption regularly and in order to settle the dispute for previous
period, his client may agree to receive a sum of Rs.50,000/- as full
and final settlement but the petitioner is not agreeable for the same.
She has levelled various allegations against the respondents and Crl.MC No.1002/2011 Page 3 of 9 insisted that the matter be decided on merits. Left with no other
option the matter was heard. 7. Her first submission is that the user of electricity at the DDA
Flat No. 1260, Sector-D, Pocket-I, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi is the
'Registered Consumer' with BSES/respondent No.1 who lives in
Bihar and is only a paying guest in the premises. 8. Her next submission is that there is no direct theft of electricity
at the said premises on the following reasons:- Respondent No.1 has been receiving monthly payments by
 cheques from Aglomed Pharmaceutical Company for supplying Crl.MC No.1002/2011 Page 4 of 9 electricity without a meter at the said premises. Thus, there is no
 direct theft of electricity at the said premises. 9. Her next submission is that she has no legal liability towards
electricity consumption at the said premises in face of the following
facts: paying guest in the guest house in the said premises. (c) The Aglomed Pharmaceutical Company is running the guest
 house in the said premises since a very long period for doctors
 for its own promotion and the Company is showing the same in
 the Income Tax Ledger as a charity for doctors in need. (d) The owner of the said premises is Shri Brahma Nand Sharma. The electricity bills were regularly furnished by the
 BSES/respondent No.1 in the name of Shri Brahma Nand
 Sharma. (e) The Aglomed Pharmaceutical Company has been regularly
 paying the electricity bills and water bills for the said premises
 by cheques in favour of BSES/respondent No.1 and Delhi Jal
 Board respectively. 10. She has also denied that there is any site inspection or any
video recording by BSES/respondent No.1 at the said premises at
any point of time rather on 30th June, 2010 men of BSES/respondent
No.1 again came to extort money from the petitioner without any
written authority from BSES/respondent No.1 and without an
authorized Identity Card and threatened to cut the electric supply Crl.MC No.1002/2011 Page 5 of 9 without any reason under the law. Thereafter, she called PCR and
the local police. The local police did not allow cutting of electric
supply or site inspection or videography at the said premises by the
BSES/respondent No.1 because they were not allowed to enter in the
premises. There is no evidence of recording of site-inspection by
BSES/respondent No.1 men at the said premises at any point of time.
From 30th July, 2007 till the year 2010, the BSES/respondent No.1
had been receiving monthly payments by cheques from Aglomed
Pharmaceutical Company in the name of Nand Sharma and send it to
E-2, Green Park, New Delhi, for supplying electricity without a meter
at the said premises. Therefore, there is no direct theft of electricity at
the said premises. 11. Therefore, it is a fictitious and forged penalty charges raised by
BSES/respondent No.1 without direct theft of electricity and without
inspection and evidence of the said premises. The fake penalty
raised by BSES/respondent No.1 against the petitioner on the basis
of a fake and forged site-inspection report, without disclosing the total
records of past payments of provisional fixed rate electric bills
furnished by BSES/respondent No.1 for supplying electricity without a
meter since after 30th July, 2007 till 30th June 2010, stands extortion
and damage to reputation of the petitioner by the men of
BSES/respondent No.1 through forgery and intimation. The average
monthly bills for two months comes to Rs.640/- only. 12. It is submitted that on 7th March, 2011 the petitioner on her
return from U.K. landed at Delhi Airport at 3.00 a.m. The petitioner
suffered profound disability of jetlag. Due to jet-lag brain faculties Crl.MC No.1002/2011 Page 6 of 9 remain unresponsive, dormant and confused. The petitioner
appeared before Additional Sessions Judge/ Electricity on the same
day. Due to lack of time, mental and physical exhaustion and jet-lag
the petitioner could not follow the intents of the Court which passed
the order without explaining the contents of the order.
As no case of theft of electricity under Section 135 of the Act could be
booked against the petitioner when admittedly the meter from the
said premises had been removed by the men of BSES/respondent
No.1 and the supply was made direct at the said premises by the
men of BSES/respondent No.1 and electricity was being supplied by
BSES/respondent No.1 at the said premises without a meter. None of
the actions under clause (a) to (e) of sub-Section (1) of Section 135 of the Act has been committed by the petitioner at the said premises. 13. Learned counsel for the respondent has not disputed the fact
that the average monthly bills for two months comes to Rs. 640/-
only. The petitioner is stated to consume the electricity without a
meter from the period July, 2007 till 30th June, 2010. 14. This court while exercising the power under Section 482 Cr.P.C. is not inclined to decide the matter on merit in the nature of
rival claims of the parties as the disputes are pending before the
special Tribunal dealing with such disputes. The offer was given by
the respondent to the petitioner to pay a sum of Rs.50,000/- as full
and final settlement without prejudice in order to resolve the disputes
which is not acceptable to the petitioner. If the stand of petitioner is
still rigid then she should contest the matter before the Tribunal on
merit. 15. As far as the jurisdiction to hear the matter by the trial court is
concerned on the grounds that the petitioner is not the registered
consumer, the said argument has no force and is rejected in view of
specific provision of Section 135 of the Act. Even otherwise under the
provision of Section 135 of the Act under the head of "Direct Theft of
Electricity', the same can be raised against the petitioner under the
provisions of clause (i) of sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Delhi
Electricity Regulatory Commission (Performance Standards -
Metering and Billing) Regulation, 2002. 16. Under these provisions, under the Chapter of Offences and
Penalties, Section 135 of the Act stipulates that the theft of electricity
would apply to "whoever dishonestly taps, makes or causes to be
made any connection with overhead, underground or under water
lines or cables, or service wires, or service facilities of a licensee or
supplier, as the case may be; or (b) tampers a meter, installs or uses
a tampered meter, current reversing transformer, loop connection or
any other device or method which interferes with accurate or proper
registration, calibration or metering of electric current or otherwise
results in a manner whereby electricity is stolen or wasted; or (c)
damages or destroys an electric meter, apparatus, equipment, or
were or causes or allows any of them to be so damaged or destroyed
as to interfere with the proper or accurate metering of electricity; or (d) uses electricity through a tampered meter, or (e) uses electricity
for the purpose other than for which the usage of electricity was
authorized. ....Provided also that if it is provided that any artificial
means or means not authorized by the Board or licensee or supplier, Crl.MC No.1002/2011 Page 8 of 9 as the case may be, exist for the abstraction, consumption or use of
electricity by the consumer, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is
proved, that any abstraction, consumption or use of electricity has
been dishonestly caused by such consumer." 17. Under these circumstances, it is immaterial if the name of the
Registered Consumer with the respondent is Brahma Nand Sharma.
The petitioner, who is enjoying the facility, is therefore liable to pay
the electricity charges. 18. In view of the above, this Court is of the considered view that
either the petitioner settles the matter as per offer given by the
counsel for the respondent and deposit the amount within four weeks
from today, otherwise in failure to do so, the present petition shall be
treated as dismissed. However, the petitioner would be entitled to
contest the matter before the Tribunal who would decide the same
without the influence of this order. 19. The petition is disposed of accordingly with these directions. 20. No costs. (MANMOHAN SINGH)
 JUDGE
MAY 12, 2015 Crl.MC No.1002/2011 Page 9 of 9