Heard counsel for the parties. This bail application has been filed by the applicant,
who has been arrested on 23.1.2015 and is in Jail in
connection with Crime No.266/2012 registered with Police
Station Gopalganj, District - Sagar - commonly known as
VYAPAM Examination Scam cases - for the offence
punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 474 , 417 , 120-B of IPC and also under Section 3 (d) 1 , 2 / 4 of the
M.P. Manyata Prapt Pariksha Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicant by the prosecution is
that of an "impersonator". The applicant appeared in the said
examination in place of one Ravi Gotel to commit unfair
means during the examination conducted by VYAPAM. It is, fairly, stated by the learned counsel for the State, on
instructions, that custodial interrogation of the applicant is no
more required. Charge-sheet has also been filed against the
applicant on 17.4.2015. Further, the investigation against the
applicant is complete in all respects as of now and, therefore, the
presence of applicant is no more required. The beneficiary - ---2--- Ravi Gotel and middleman - Niraj Rajput and Pawan Rajput
have already arrested. In that sense, the investigation regarding
the link between the accused persons is already complete.
Further, the applicant is not involved in any other crime of
similar type. Besides, the applicant through counsel undertakes
to appear before the Investigating Officer as and when called for
further investigation including against him as also to punctually
appear before the trial Court to ensure early disposal of the
criminal trial. In the interest of justice, taking overall view of the
matter, we deem it appropriate to grant bail to the applicant
on following strict conditions:- ---3--- Jonpur, Uttar Pradesh, once a week on
 every Sunday between 10:00 a.m. to 12:00
 noon unless required to attend the office of
 the Investigating Officer at Bhopal on that
 day; and
 (4) The applicant will deposit his passport, if
 available, with the Investigating Agency,
 else file affidavit in this Court declaring
 that the applicant does not have any
 passport of any country. This compliance
 will be condition precedent for release on
 bail. The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.