responsive, influencing each other in ways that are only minimally
 predictable; general changes in the political and socio-economic
 climate will affect both crime and the criminal justice system in a
 similar manner". Alfred Blumstein in Encyclopedia of Crime and
 Justice, Khadish (ed.). 2 This Criminal Appeal under Section 21 of the National
 Investigation Agency Act, 2008 (for short, "the N.I.A. Act ") read with Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, "the
 Code") is at the instance of an undertrial accused questioning the
 legality and validity of the order passed by the Special Judge (NIA), City
 Sessions Court, Ahmedabad, dated 4th March 2020 rejecting the bail
 application filed by the accused in connection with the First Information
 Report registered with the Rajkot 'A' Division Police Station, Rajkot, vide
 I-C.R. No.51 of 2017, and later, re-registered vide R.C. No.06-2017/NIA/
 DLI with the National Investigation Agency for the offences punishable
 under Sections 120B , 201 , 406 , 420 , 489A , 489B , 489C , 489D , 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code. 3 It appears from the materials on record that the accused appellant
 was arrested on 24th February 2017. Upon completion of the
 investigation, chargesheet was filed on 3 rd June 2017 against in all six
 persons including the appellant herein for the alleged offences
 enumerated above. The filing of the chargesheet culminated in the
 Special Case (NIA) No.1 of 2017 in the Court of the Special Judge (NIA), Page 2 of 44 Downloaded on : Thu Sep 09 06:52:32 IST 2021 R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

Ahmedabad. 4 We also take notice of the fact that in the past, the appellant
herein had preferred the Criminal Appeal No.909 of 2017 before this
Court with a plea that he may be released on bail. The Criminal Appeal
No.909 of 2017 was disposed of by a Coordinate Bench vide order dated
4th April 2018, which reads as under: 5 We also take notice of the fact that the prosecuting agency
proposes to examine 77 witnesses in support of its case. Considering the
fact that the appellant herein is in jail past almost five years, we thought
fit to pass the following order dated 16th July 2021: 4. In view of the aforesaid, we would like to know the status of the NIA
 Special Criminal Case No.1 of 2017 pending as on date in the NIA
 Special Court at Ahmedabad. We would like to know from the NIA
 Judge that how much time he is likely to consume before the oral
 evidence is closed. 5. The Registry shall call for the report in the aforesaid regard from the
 NIA Special Court at Ahmedabad so as to reach this Court on or before
 29.07.2021. Post this matter on 30.07.2021." 6 In response to the aforesaid order passed by this Court, the
Principal and Special Judge (NIA), Ahmedabad addressed the following
letter dated 28th July 2021: Sub : Status of NIA Special Case No.1 of 2017 pending before this
 Court. Ref : Order dated 16/07/2021 passed by the Hon'ble High Court of
 Gujarat (Coram : Hon'ble Mr. Justice J.B. Pardiwala and Hon'ble Ms.
 Justice Vaibhavi D. Nanavati) in R/Criminal Appeal (Regular Bail)
 No.961 of 2021. Dear Sir,

 With reference to the above subject, I have the honour to sate that the
 Hon'ble High Court of Gujarat has, vide the referred order the writ
 whereof was received by this Registry only on 28/07/2021, called for
 the report regarding status of NIA Special Case No.1/2017 pending
 before the Special NIA Court of the City Civil Court at Ahmedabad, as
 also the details with regard to time likely to be consumed before the
 oral evidence is closed in the proceedings. In connection with the above, I have the honour to further state that the
 undersigned is presiding over one of the two special Courts for NIA
 cases, in the City Civil & Sessions Court, Ahmedabad, and the original
 proceedings relating to the proceedings under consideration of the
 Hon'ble High Court, i.e. NIA Special Case No.1/2017 are pending
 before the Court of the undersigned. I may further humbly state that the prosecution has produced a list of in
 all 70 witnesses to be examined on the part of the prosecution,
 wherefrom till date 20 witnesses have been already examined by this
 Court during the course of trial which has progressed so far in NIA
 Special Case No.1/2017. It is humbly further stated that considering the
 fact that 50 more prosecution witnesses are yet to be examined, in my
 humble and considered opinion, the process of examining these
 remaining 50 witnesses would consume time of not less than 1 ½ years
 before closure of such oral evidence. In the circumstances, I am to request you to be so good as to place this
 letter before Hon'ble Mr. Justice J. B. Pardiwala and Hon'ble Ms. Justice
 Vaibhavi D. Nanavati for their kind perusal, information and due
 consideration. The R/Criminal Appeal No.961/2021 is listed before the
 Hon'ble High Court of Gujarat on 29/07/2021. Your sincerely,
 sd/- (Shubhada K. Baxi)
 Principal Judge & Special Judge (NIA)" witnesses had been examined and 50 more witnesses are yet to be
examined. The Special Judge is of the view that it would take atleast one
and half years before the evidence is closed. 8 Mr. Chetan Pandya, the learned counsel appearing for the
appellant vehemently submitted that its been almost five years that his
client is in judicial custody as an undertrial accused and the trial is not
likely to come to an end in near future. He would submit that if the
prosecuting agency intends to examine 50 more witnesses, then the pace
at which the trial is progressing, it would take another 2 to 3 years
before the evidence is closed by the prosecution. 9 Mr. Pandya would submit that the fundamental right of his client
to have a speedy trial, as enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution
of India, could be said to have been infringed and on this count alone,
irrespective of the merit of the case or the nature of the charge, his client
may be released on bail subject to the strictest of the terms and
conditions. 10 Mr. Pandya would submit that in the entire State of Gujarat, there
is only one NIA Court. The Principal Judge of the City Civil and Sessions
Court, Ahmedabad has been designated as the Special Judge (NIA). Mr.
Pandya pointed out that the learned Special Judge is not able to devote
sufficient time to conduct the trials under the NIA as the learned Special
Judge is busy with the trial of Naroda Patia case. According to Mr.
Pandya, there are other trials also under the NIA in progress. 11 In such circumstances referred to above, Mr. Pandya prays that his
client may be released on bail subject to the terms and conditions that
this Court may deem fit to impose. Mr. Devang Vyas, the learned Additional Solicitor General of India
appearing for the National Investigation Agency. Mr. Vyas would submit
that having regard to the serious nature of the crime alleged to have
been committed by the appellant, this Court may not entertain the plea
of bail only on the ground of violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of
India. Mr. Vyas would submit that the serious nature of crime should
also be taken into consideration while considering the right of the
accused to have a speedy trial, as enshrined under Article 21 of the
Constitution of India. Mr. Vyas very fairly submitted that the trial is not
likely to be completed in next two to three years as almost 50 witnesses
are yet to be examined. However, Mr. Vyas assures this Court that all
necessary steps shall be taken to ensure that there is no undue delay in
the examination of the prosecution witnesses. 13 In such circumstances referred to above, Mr. Vyas, the learned
Additional Solicitor General of India prays that there being no merit in
the present appeal and also in the plea of bail as raised by the accused,
the appeal may be dismissed. 14 We should also give a fair idea as regards the case of the
prosecution against the accused appellant herein and the other co-
accused. We may quote the gist of the offences as contained in the last
part of the chargesheet: r/o Vishakha, Shri Ram park-2, Opp. Navneet Hall, Sheri No.03,
 Kotharia Road, Rajkot lodged complaint at A-Division Police Station, Page 7 of 44 Downloaded on : Thu Sep 09 06:52:32 IST 2021 R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

 Rajkot city, Gujarat against Ketan Suryakant Dave, Shailesh Narshibhai
 Barvadiya and 6-7 unknown persons. The incident took place on
 23.02.2017 in the office of Devashree Account & Finance, Rajkot
 sitauted on 4th floor, 421/422, Nakshtra-6, Building, Gondal Road,
 Rajkot, Gujarat. As per the said complaint, the accused Ketan S. Dave in
 this case gained confidence of the complainant, partner of Balaji
 Enterprise, Rajkot and told him to transfer Rs. 50 lakh by RTGS (Real
 Time Gross Settlement which is one Of the modes Of transfer of funds
 through banking channel) from the account of his firm viz. Balaji
 Enterprise in the bank account B.K. Enterprise and he assured that once
 the amount is credited, he will handover Rs. 50 lakh In cash on the
 same day. However, the accused did not hand over Rs. 50 lakh to the
 complainant in spite of receiving the fund in his designated bank
 account. As he had planned not to handover cash to the complainant.
 Consequently,the present Crime No. 51/2016 was registered at A-
 Division Police Station, Rajkot City on 24.02.2017 u/s. 406 , 420 , 120B of IPC 1860. ii) During investigation, Fake Indian Currency Notes of face value
 of Rs. 57.16 Lakh was recovered from the above said Office of the
 accused Ketan Suryakant Dave (A-1). On 25.02.2017 provisions of
 sections 489B & 489C Of IPC 1860 were also invoked in the said crime. iii) During the course of investigation, it was revealed that
 Kishorbhai Kanjibhai Ranpariya (A-3) and Anvarbhai Ibrahimbhai
 Tayani were also involved in the said crime. Accordingly, both were
 arrested On 27.02.2017 iv) During the course of further investigation, it was revealed
 Umang Bipinbhai Adivecha (A-5) and Parth Jagdishbhai Teraiya (A-6)
 were also involved in the Said crime. Accordingly both were also
 arrested on 28.02.2017. v) On 01.03.2017, at the instance of accused Umang Adiyecha (A- 5). The material used for printing the said fake notes were seized from
 a Ritz Car of Ketan Dave (A-1) parked near Mahadeve Temple, Punit
 Nagar, Rajkot. The said car is owned by Jayesh Meghan, but the vi) On 01.03.2017, accused Parth Teraiya (A-6) revealed the place
 Where he had burnt 2-3 bundles Of fake currency notes as per the
 direction Of accused Ketan Dave (A-1) three to four days prior to the
 incident on 23.02.2017 at open area, Near Sandniya pul, Jamnagar
 Road, Rajkot. Subsequently, provision of sections 201 of IPC 1860 was
 also invoked in the said crime on 01.03.2017. vii) At the instance of accused Umang Adiyecha (A-5), Skoda Car car
 no. G)-1-KA-8551 parked in open space in front of Akhil-A Apartment,
 Sukhsagar, Behind Punit Nagar, Rajkot was searched on 03.03.2017 by Page 8 of 44 Downloaded on : Thu Sep 09 06:52:32 IST 2021 R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

 using key provided by Mrs. Kiranben Dave (mother of accused Ketan
 Dave), which resulted in seizure of fake Indian currency notes of face
 value of Rs. 3.92 Crore and other material used for printing/packing of
 the said fake notes. The said Skoda car is owned by Mrs. Nitaben D.
 Raval, maternal aunt of accused Ketan Dave, but the said car mostly
 used by accused Ketan Dave. viii) The Central Government having regard to the facts and gravity
 of the said offence and in exercise Of the powers conferred under sub
 section (5) of Section 6 read with Section 8 Of the National
 Investigation Agency Act 2008, Suo motu directed the National
 Investigation Agency to take up the investigation of the case vide an
 Order NO. 11011/16/2017-IS.IV dated 15/03/2017 of Ministry of
 Home Affairs, New Delhi. Pursuant to the Said order, N.1.A., New Delhi
 P.S. re-numbered the crime as case No. RC06/2017/NIA/DLI on
 16/03/2017 and the investigation of the said case was taken up by
 N.1.A, Branch office Mumbai. 17. Facts Disclosed during investigation: Accused Ketan Dave (A-1) and accused Umang Adiyecha (A-5) scanned
 legal tenders Of Indian rupees in the denomination of 2000 and printed Page 9 of 44 Downloaded on : Thu Sep 09 06:52:32 IST 2021 R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

 Fake Indian Currency Notes by using printer, scanner and laptop in
 their Office at Nakshatra-6 building itself. Subsequently, they started
 printing the FICN at the Sadhu Vaswani house of accused Ketan Dave
 and found that the printing speed of the printer was slow and was
 consuming more ink. As the cartridge was costly and was not readily
 available, another colour printer of Canon Company was purchased on
 06.12.2016 from a shop named Printer House, Rajkot and ink bottles
 required for refilling were purchased from the said shop from time to
 time, by both Of them. Accused also purchased JK bond white papers,
 paper cutting machine, scale, packing clips, packing machine, plastic
 packing tapes etc. from different shops located in Rajkot required for
 printing, cutting, packing of FICN. 17.5 Thereafter, to maintain the confidentiality, the accused took a
 flat No.102, Prayag Apartment, Rajkot on rent of Rs.10000/per month
 and started printing the FICN. 17.6 After completion of printing of FICN Of face value of Rs. 5 crore,
 accused Ketan Dave (A-1) started searching for people who were
 interested in exchanging the unaccounted demonetised currency notes
 or wanted hard cash against transfer of funds by RTGS. 17.7 Accused Ketan Dave (A-1), in order to gain the confidence of
 customers and show it to them, that he is really in possession of hard
 cash, took photographs of 25 bundles of FICN in his mobile phone, as a
 token of assurance of having cash in new currency of 2000
 denomination. 17.8 Accused Ketan Dave (A-1) approached one Pravin Thakkar
 resident of Ahmedabad and told him to inform names of parties who
 are ready to do RTGS and take back their money in cash. This deal did
 not materialise as Pravin Thakkar could not provide any such customer. 17.9 Thereafter, in January 2017, accused Ketan Dave (A-1) requested
 one Dipen Dave resident of Raikot to suggest name of persons ready to
 do RIGS and take money in hard cash. Dipen Dave suggested to contact
 one Deepak Dave resident of Rajkot and said that he might have some
 party for the same. Accordingly, Ketan Dave (A-1) contacted Deepak
 Dave, who suggested name of one Mahesh Trivedi from Ahmedabad.
 Thereafter, Ketan Dave (A-1), Dipen Dave & Deepak Dave visited
 Ahmedabad and as referred by Mahesh Trivedi, they met his friend
 Shailesh Trivedi at Ahmedabad. Accused Ketan Dave (A-1) told
 Shailesh Trivedi to give reference of any person ready to do RTGS and
 take money in hard cash. Shailesh Trivedi replied that he does not have
 any such reference and will revert back if any person approaches them. 17.10 Accused Ketan Dave (A-1) assited accused Kishorbhai Ranpariya
 (A-3) in opening a current bank account in the name Of B.K. Enterprise Page 10 of 44 Downloaded on : Thu Sep 09 06:52:32 IST 2021 R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

 by providing address proof of one Pratik Dave from Ahmedabad. A rent
 agreement in the name of Pratik Dave and Kishorbhai Ranpariya (A-3),
 for renting office premises of Pratik Dave was prepared which was
 signed by Umang Adiyecha (A-5) on behalf of Pratik Dave and instead
 of Pratik Dave's photo, he had put his own photo on the said rent
 agreement and got it notarized from Ahmedabad. 17.11 Accused Ketan Dave(A-1) was constantly making efforts but, he
 was not getting any customer ready to take cash in new currency in lieu
 of exchange of unaccounted demonetized old currency. So, he started
 searching for people who would transfer money by RTGS through
 banking channel, however take back the said money in cash. Accused
 Ketan Dave (A-1) contacted Sanjay Sorathiya resident of Rajkot and
 requested him to suggest any party for the said purpose. Sanjay
 Sorathiya referred name of one Bhaveshbhai Harsoda, partner of Balaji
 Enterprise, Rajkot. 17.12 Initially, in order to gain confidence, Ketan Dave (A-1)
 told Bhaveshbhai, partner of Balaji Enterprise through Sanjay Sorathiya
 to transfer Rs.10 Lakh by RTGS in the bank account of Poonam
 Industries owned by accused Kishor Ranpariya (A-3). After receiving
 RTGS of said Rs.10 Lakh, Ketan Dave (A-1) returned the said amount in
 cash on 17.02.2017. Similarly, Ketan Dave (A-1) told to transfer Rs.10
 Lakh each on 18.02.2017 and 21.02.2017 in the bank account of
 Poonam Industries. Every time, accused further transferred said amount
 in bank account of some other firm without their knowledge and after
 withdrawing it from their accounts, returned the said amount in cash to
 Bhaveshbhai Harsoda, partner of Balaji Enterprise against the RTGS
 made by them, in fair manner. 17.13 Meanwhile, Deepak Dave suggested name of one Nitin
 Bumtaria, working as manager in Jamnagar Dist. Cooperative Bank
 Rajkot who is ready to do RTGS and take money in cash. In the
 morning of 23.02.2017, Ketan Dave (A-1) showed them hard cash in
 his office. Nitin Bumtaria called another person viz. Mukeshbhai Soni to
 office of Ketan Dave (A-1) to check the cash. Accused Ketan Dave
 offered him to take the cash against RTGS. Mukeshbhai Soni said that
 he will do RTGS only after receiving money in angadia (private money
 transfer channel), When Ketan Dave (A 1) did not agree for the same,
 the said deal could not be executed,

 17.14 By returning cash after doing RTGS on three Instances,
 Ketan Dave (A-1) had gained the confidence of Bhaveshbhai Harsoda,
 partner of Balaji Enterprise. Now, Ketan Dave (A-1) planned for RTGS
 transaction of big amount to accomplish his plan of cheating by using
 FICN and for the said purpose he convinced Bhaveshbhal Harsoad,
 partner of Balaji Enterprise to do RTGS of big amount, In a meeting
 held in his office on 22.02.2017 In presence of Sanjay Sorathiya. R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

 Finally, it was decided that first cash will be shown to the
 representative of Balaji Enterprise and then RTGS of Rs.50 Lakh will be
 done from the account of Balaji Enterprise to that of B. K. Enterprise. 17.15 Accordingly, In the morning of 23.02.2017, Ketan Dave
 (A-1) contacted Sanjay Sorathiya and told him that cash will be brought
 by the representative of his Ahmedabad party and told him to come to
 his office to verify the cash. Accordingly, Ketan Dave (A-1) first Showed
 three bundles of hard cash to Sanjay Sorathiya and then to Nitinbhai
 Ajani, partner of Balaji Enterprise and convinced them for the deal by
 projecting that he has hard cash of Rs.60 Lakh with him, and told them
 to do RTGS of Rs.50 Lakh in the account of B.K. Enterprise. Prima facie,
 Nitinbhai Ajani, the complainant got convinced that Ketan Dave (A-1) is
 in possession of hard cash in denomination of Rs.2000 so, he directed
 his employee to transfer Rs.50 lakh from the account of Balaji
 Enterprise to that of B.K. Enterprise through RTGS. Ketan Dave (A-1)
 was informed that RTGS has been done, but he kept on delaying on one
 or the other pretext. Even after confirming about receipt of Rs.50 Lakh
 in the account of B.K. Enterprise, through the local branch at Central
 Bank of India, Ketan Dave (A-1) did not hand over the said cash which
 was shown by him to. the complainant, prior to doing RTGS. Ketan
 Dave (A-1) sought time by saying that his Ahmedabad party had to
 receive payment of Rs.10 Lakh from another party and till the same was
 received he had been told not to hand over the cash to complainant.
 Meanwhile, as per plan accused Ketan Dave (A-1) sought help of
 accused Anvarbhai Tayani (A-4) who came to office of accused Ketan
 Dave (A-1) and made an attempt to take away accused Shailesh
 Barvadiya(A-2) from the spot along with the bag containing FICN under
 the pretext that he had to receive payment of Rs.10 Lakh and he was
 taking the said cash along with Shailesh Barvadiya (A2) to settle the
 said matter. However, complainant Nitinbhai Ajani and his men did not
 allow them to do SO and sought police help. Thus. the instant case was
 registered. 17.16 Thereafter, during investigation, FICN of face value of
 Rs.57.16 Lakh was recovered from the office of the accused. The
 provisions of sections 4896 & 489C Of IPC 1860 were also invoked in
 the said crime on 25.02.2017. 17.17 uring the course of investigation, was revealed that
 Kishorbhai Kanjibhal Ranpariya (A-3) and Anvarbhai Ibrahimbhai
 Tavani (A-4) were involved in the sad crime. Accordingly both were
 arrested on 27.02.2017. 17.18 During the course of investigation, it was revealed Umang
 Bipinbhai Adyecha (A-5) and Parth Jagdishbhai Teraiya (A-6) were
 involved in the sad crime. Accordingly, both were arrested on 28.02.
 2017. Adiyecha (A-5) the material used for printing the said fake notes were
 seized from Ritz Car of Ketan Dave (A-1) parked near Mahadeve
 Temple, punit Nagar, Rajkot. 17.20 On 01.03.2017, accused Parth Teraiya (A-6) revealed the
 location of place where he had burnt 2-3 bundles of fake currency notes
 as per the direction of accused Ketan Dave (A-1), three to four days
 prior to the incident on 23.02.2017 at open Area, Near Sandhiya Pul,
 Jamnagar Road, Rajkot. Subsequently, provisions of sections 201 of IPC
 were also invoked in the said crime on 01.03.2017. 17.21 During the investigation all the suspected fake Indian
 Currency notes recovered from the accused persons were sent to the
 Currency Note press (CNP), Nashik, Maharashtra for expert opinion.
 Their reports have since been received confirming that the notes are
 counterfeited. 17.22 At the instance of accused Umang Adiyecha (A-5), fake
 Indian currency notes of face value Of Rs. 3.92 Crore and Other
 material used for printing/packing the said fake notes were recovered
 from a Skoda Car car no. GJ-1-KA-8551 parked in open space in front of
 Akhil-A Apartment, Sukhsagar, Behind Punit Nagar, Rajkot on
 03.03.2017, by using key provided by Mrs. Kiranben (mother of
 accused Ketan Dave). 17.23. The duplicate copies of invoices & entries made on register
 related to sell of printers to accused were taken over from the owner of
 shop viz. 'Printer House', Rajkot. Similarly, duplicate copies of invoices
 related to sell of one printer of HP Company was taken over from the
 Manager of Croma Showroom, Rajkot. The said printers have been
 seized on 01.03.2017 from above said Ritz car used by accused Ketan S.
 Dave (A-1) and one printer was taken over under production cum
 seizure memo from the owner of shop viz. 'Printer House', Rajkot. 17.24 Accused Ketan Dave (A-1) had informed that photograph
 of bundles of FICN was taken in his mobile phone along with his right
 hand fingers showing three rings worn by him and so that he can show
 the said photo to prove that he has so much of cash with him to gain
 confidence Of the person ready to do RTGS. The said three rings were
 handed over to family Of accused Ketan S. Dave (A-1) after his arrest
 by arresting officer. However, for further investigation, as directed by
 I.0, Mrs. Kiranben, mother Of accused Ketan Dave (A-1) produced the
 said three rings & the same were seized under panchanama on
 11.03.2017. taking sample photographs of accused Ketan Dave (A1) after wearing
 said three rings was drawn in presence of independent witnesses on
 18.03.2017. Subsequently, printout of the photographs was taken from
 Colour Lab, Rajkot On 18.03.2017. 18. Charge: 7. It was held that the decisions in the two "Common Cause" cases and Raj Deo Sharma v. State of Bihar and Raj Deo Sharma (II) v. State of
 Bihar, were not correctly decided on certain aspects. It is neither
 advisable nor feasible, nor judicially permissible or draw or prescribe an
 outer limit for conclusion of all criminal proceedings. The
 time-limits or bars of limitation prescribed in the several directions
 made in the aforesaid four cases could not have been so prescribed or
 drawn and, therefore, are not good law. Criminal courts are not obliged
 to terminate trial of criminal proceedings merely on account of
 lapse of time, as prescribed by the directions made in the
 aforesaid cases. 8. As was observed in P. Ramchandra Rao 's case (supra), at the most
 periods of time prescribed in those decisions can be taken by the Courts
 in seisin of the trial or proceedings to act as reminder when they may
 be persuaded to apply to their judicial mind to the facts and
 circumstances of the case before them and determine by taking into
 consideration several relevant factors as pointed in A.R.
 Antulay's case (supra) and decide whether the trial or proceedings
 have become so inordinately delayed as to be called oppressive and
 unwarranted. Such time limits cannot and will not be treated by any
 court as a bar to further trial or proceedings and as mandatorily
 obliging the court to terminate the same and acquit or
 discharge the accused. 9. While considering the question of delay the court has a duty to see
 whether the prolongation was on account of any delaying tactics
 adopted by the accused and other relevant aspects which contributed to
 the delay. Number of witnesses examined, volume of documents
 likely to be exhibited, nature and complexity of the offence
 which is under investigation or adjudication are some of the relevant
 factors. There can be no empirical formula of universal application in
 such matters. Each case has to be judged in its own background and
 special features if any. No generalization is possible and should be
 done. It has also to be borne in mind that the criminal courts exercise
 available powers such as those under Sections 309 , 311 and 258 of
 the Cr.P.C. to effectuate right to speedy trial. 18 The Supreme Court in the case of Mahendra Lal Das vs. State of
Bihar and others reported in (2001) Cri.L.J. 4718 has observed as
under: R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

 " Abdul Rehman Antulay & Ors. v. R.S. Nayak & Anr , [ 1992] 1 SCC 225
 while interpreting the scope of Article 21 of the Constitution held that
 every citizen has a right of speedy trial of the case pending against him.
 The speedy trial was considered also in public interest as it serves the
 social interest also. It is in the interest of all concerned that guilty or
 innocence of the accused is determined as quickly as possible in the
 circumstances. The right to speedy trial encompasses all the stages,
 namely, stage of investigation, enquiry, trial, appeal, revision
 and re-trial. While determining the alleged delay, the court has to
 decide each case on its facts having regard to all attending
 circumstances including nature of offence, number of accused and
 witnesses, the work-load of the court concerned, prevailing local
 conditions, etc. Every delay may not be taken as causing prejudice to
 the accused but the alleged delay has to be considered in the totality
 of the circumstances and the general conspectus of the case.
 Inordinate long delay can be taken as a presentive proof of prejudice." 22. In Hussainara Khatoon's case (AIR 1979 SC 1360) (supra), the
 Hon'ble Apex Court gave anxious consideration to the pathetic plight of
 under trial prisoners languishing in jail for years together and held that
 any procedure which would not ensure a speedy trial could not be
 regarded as reasonable, fair or just and that the right of an accused to
 speedy trial rather 'a reasonably expeditious trial' is imbibed in Article
 21 of the Constitution of India. In paragraph 5 thereunder, it was held
 thus :- Right to speedy trial is the right of the accused. The fact that a speedy
 trial is also in public interest or that it serves that social interest also,
 does not make it any the less the right of the accused. It is in the
 interest of all concerned that the guilt or innocence of the accused is
 determined as quickly as possible in the circumstances. (2) Right to speedy trial flowing from Article 21 encompasses
 all the stages, namely the stage of investigation, inquiry, trial, appeal,
 revision and re-trial. That is how, this Court has understood this right
 and there is no reason to take a restricted view. (3) The concerns underlying the right to speedy trial from the point of Page 19 of 44 Downloaded on : Thu Sep 09 06:52:32 IST 2021 R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

 view of the accused are : Very often these stays are obtained on ex parte representation. (5) While determining whether undue delay has occurred
 (resulting in violation of Right to Speedy Trial) one must
 have regard to all the attendant circumstances, including nature of
 offence, number of accused and witnesses, the workload of the
 Court concerned, prevailing local conditions and so on - What is
 called, the systemic delays. It is true that it is the obligation of the State
 to ensure a speedy trial and State includes judiciary as well, but a
 realistic and practical approach should be adopted in such matters
 instead of a pedantic one. (6) Each and every delay does not necessarily prejudice the accused.
 Some delays may indeed work to his advantage. As has been observed Page 20 of 44 Downloaded on : Thu Sep 09 06:52:32 IST 2021 R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

 by Powell, J. in Barker (1972) 33 Law Ed "it cannot be said how long a
 delay is too long in a system where justice is supposed to be swift but
 deliberate". The same idea has been stated by White, J. in U.S. v. Ewell
 (1966) 15 Law Ed in the following words : 19 In P. Ramachandra Rao 's case (AIR 2002 SC 1856) (supra), a
Seven Judges Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the criminal
Courts should exercise their available powers, such as those
under Sections 309 , 311 and 258 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure to effectuate the right to speedy trial. In paragraph 29 in P.
Ramachandra Rao 's case (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court upheld and
reaffirmed the propositions laid down in the matter of speedy
trial in Abdul Rehman Autulay 's case (AIR 1992 SC 1701) (supra). It
was held thus : "The propositions emerging from Article 21 of the
 Constitution and expounding the right to speedy trial laid down as
 guidelines in A. R. Antulay case adequately take care of right to speedy
 trial. We uphold and reaffirm the said propositions." In paragraph 29(5) thereunder, it was held : 20 In Pankaj Kumar's case (AIR 2008 SC 3077) (supra), the Hon'ble
Supreme Court even considered the question of the duty of the Court on
infringement of the right to speedy trial. In the light of the aforesaid
decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, the contra contention of the
National Investigation Agency to the appellant's contention that the right
to speedy trial is a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 21 of the
Constitution of India can only be a claptrap and therefore, it must fail. In
short, speedy trial is undoubtely a right flowing from Article 21 of the
Constitution of India. In A. R. Antulay 's case (AIR 1992 SC 1701) (supra), the Hon'ble
Supreme Court observed that the very fact of being accused to a crime is
a cause for concern and it affects the reputation and the standing of the
person among his colleagues and in the society. It is a cause for worry
and expense. It is more so, if he is arrested. It is a serious offence, the
man may stand to lose his life, liberty, career and all that he cherishes.
Right to life means right to live with full human dignity,
without humuliation and deprivation or degradation of any sort. The
impact of being an accused is evident from the aforequoted observations
of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and therefore, there can be no doubt that
the tag of 'accused' would deprive a man the right to live with full
human dignity. It is these facets and factors that fetched 'fair
trial' the recognition as a human right. Speedy trial is an integral part
of fair trial. Therefore, we are of the view that the right to speedy trial is
also a human right and no civilized society can deny the same to an
accused. Furthermore, it should always be the concern of the society to
see that a real culprit is given the condign punishment at the earliest and
also to see that an accused is given an early opportunity to clear the
cloud of suspicion shrouded around him and to remove the tag of 'accused'.
The said purpose in view that is founded on social interest could not be Page 23 of 44 Downloaded on : Thu Sep 09 06:52:32 IST 2021 R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

achieved if trial is unduly delayed as trial is the sole device to decide the
guilt or innocence of an accused. Therefore, while considering the
grievance of denial of speedy trial, the decision in Zahira Habibulla H.
Shaikh's case (AIR 2004 SC 3114) (supra) has to be borne in
mind. At the same time, the propositions laid in the form of
guidelines, as observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, in A. R. Antulay's
case (AIR 1992 SC 1701) (supra), more particularly, the first and eighth
propositions are also to be borne in mind. At the risk of repetition we
may advert to and quote the said propositions. They read thus : Right to speedy
 trial is the right of the accused. The fact that a speedy trial is also in
 public interest or that it serves the social interest also, does not make it
 any the less the right of the accused. It is in the interest of
 all concerned that the guilt or innocence of the accused is
 determined as quickly as possible in the circumstances. (8) Ultimately, the Court has to balance and weigh the several relevant
 factors - 'balancing test' or 'balancing process' - and determine
 in each case whether the right to speedy trial has been denied in a
 given case." 21 We may also refer to and rely upon a recent pronouncement of the
Bombay High Court in the case of The National Investigation Agency vs.
Areeb Ejaz Majeed [Criminal Appeal No.389 of 2020 decided on 23 rd
February 2021], wherein the Court observed as under: 39. Apart from the fact that the Constitutional Courts can certainly take
 note of violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III of the
 Constitution of India, particularly the right to life under Article 21 of
 the Constitution in the context of right to speedy trial, it is specifically
 held that the rigours of stringent provisions of bail as found in Section
 43D(5) of the UAPA would melt down where there is no likelihood of
 the trial being completed in a reasonable time and the period of
 incarceration already undergone exceeds substantial part of the
 prescribed sentence. This is an aspect which becomes significant in the
 facts of the present case. We are conscious of the fact that even a
 sentence of life imprisonment can be imposed for the offence with
 which, the respondent has been charged under the UAPA and the IPC but, we cannot ignore the fact that the sentence could range between
 five years to imprisonment for life. This is particularly significant in the
 backdrop of the fact that the respondent has admittedly already
 undergone incarceration for more than six years while the trial is Page 27 of 44 Downloaded on : Thu Sep 09 06:52:32 IST 2021 R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

 underway before the NIA Court. Looking to the pace at which about 51
 witnesses have been examined, which took more than five years for the
 NIA Court, there is clearly no likelihood of the trial being completed
 within a reasonable time in the near future. Therefore, we are of the
 opinion that on this aspect, no error can be attributed to the impugned
 judgment and order passed by the NIA Court, while holding in favour of
 the respondent. 40. The other aspect of the matter is, as to whether it can be said that
 releasing the respondent would amount to prejudicially affecting the
 trial and whether there would be possibility of influencing the witnesses
 and tampering with the evidence. We have observed that the
 respondent is an educated person, who was completing his graduation
 in Civil Engineering when he left for Iraq at the age of 21 years. He
 categorically stated before us that as a 21 year old, he was carried away
 and that he had committed a serious mistake, for which he had already
 spent more than six years behind bars. In the past more than six years
 of his incarceration, the respondent has argued his case on his own
 before the NIA Court. He represented his own case before this Court as
 well as the NIA Court and we could find that he was presenting his case
 by maintaining decorum and in a proper manner. During the course of
 hearing, it transpired that his father is a doctor of Unani medicine and
 his sisters are also doctors. His brother is an engineer. This shows that
 he comes from an educated family and that if stringent conditions are
 imposed upon him, with an undertaking to cooperate with the trial
 proceedings before the NIA Court, his release on bail may not be
 harmful to the society at large and it would not adversely affect the trial
 proceedings before the NIA Court. 41. Therefore, we are of the opinion that on the second aspect of the
 matter, the findings rendered by the NIA Court need to be upheld. In
 view of the above, although we have held that the findings rendered by
 the NIA Court on the merits of the matter in the impugned judgment
 and order are unsustainable and consequently they are set aside, on the
 second aspect of the matter pertaining to the long pendency of the trial
 and the respondent having already undergone incarceration for more
 than six years, we are inclined to uphold the impugned order on the
 said ground. Yet, we intend to impose further stringent conditions on
 the respondent while upholding his release on bail. Consequently, part
 of the impugned order deserves to be modified by imposition of further
 conditions. Hence, the following order:" The appeal is accordingly dismissed subject to above-stated directions." 24 Thus, the Supreme Court held that although it was conscious of
the fact that the charges levelled against the Najeeb are grave and a
serious threat to societal harmony and the plea of bail could have been
declined at the threshold, yet keeping in mind the length of the period
spent in the custody and the unlikelihood of the trial being completed at
any time in near future, the High Court was justified that it was left with
no other option, except to grant bail. K.A. Najeeb was one of the co-
accused along with the other members of the Popular Front of India. He
was allegedly involved in an incident in 2010 where a group chopped off
the hand of a Malayalam Professor and hurled bombs at the bystanders.
The attackers believed that the question paper set by the Professor for
his college exam was blasphemous and offended Holy Prophet
Mohammed. After absconding from the police for five years, Najeeb was
finally arrested in 2015. His bail applications between 2016 and 2021
were repeatedly rejected. Finally, the Kerala High Court granted him bail
as he had already served four years as an undertrial prisoner. The speedy
trial mandated under the National Investigative Agency Act, 2008 was
not met. The State in its appeal before the Supreme Court asserted that
the High Court was wrong in granting bail to Najeeb. On behalf of Union
of India, it was argued that the normal bail granting standards under the
criminal law would be inapplicable for the offences under the UAPA or Page 32 of 44 Downloaded on : Thu Sep 09 06:52:32 IST 2021 R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

other special laws. It was further argued that the National Investigative
Agency ('NIA') had prima facie evidence of Najeeb's involvement and
culpability. It was argued on behalf of Najeeb that most of the co-
accused, in the case, were acquitted. Even those who were found guilty
did not get sentence of more than eight years. Najeeb had been kept in
prison for over five and a half years without a trial. This violated his
fundamental right to a speedy trial and access to justice. The five and
half years Najeeb spent as an undertrial prisoner became a crucial factor.
The Court invoked Shaheen Welfare Association v. Union of India (supra) to hold that the 'gross delay' in trial violates the right to life and
personal liberty under Article 21. A fundamental right violation could be
used as a ground for granting bail. Even if the case is under a stringent
criminal legislation including the anti-terror laws, prolonged delay in a
trial necessitates granting of bail. 25 We may also refer to and rely upon a recent order passed by a
Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court passed in the C.R.M. No.9314
of 2020 decided on 27th November 2020. In the said case, the Court
considered the question whether the restrictions imposed by Section 37 of the NDPS Act are over ridden by the operation of the directions issued
by the Supreme Court in Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee vs. Union
of India (1994) 6 SCC 731 in the matter of grant of bail to the
undertrials in the NDPS cases. In the said case, the accused was in
custody past five years and six months and only two witnesses had been
examined till the date the High Court passed the order of bail. Relying
on the ratio laid down in Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee (supra),
the accused therein pressed for bail. It was argued on behalf of the
Union of India that no law under Article 141 of the Constitution was
declared in the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Supreme
Court Legal Aid Committee (supra) and only "one time direction" was Page 33 of 44 Downloaded on : Thu Sep 09 06:52:32 IST 2021 R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

issued. It was further argued that the inordinate delay in trial may
entitle the undertrials to apply for bail only after due compliance of the
requirements under Section 436A of the Code of Criminal Procedure and
not otherwise. The Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court, while
releasing the accused on bail, held as under: 2. The limitations on granting of bail specified in clause (b) of
 sub-section (1) are in addition to the limitations under the Code
 of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974) or any other law for the
 time being in force, on granting of bail." As per the provision, if the prosecutor opposes the prayer for bail, an
 onerous duty is cast on the accused to satisfy the Court there are Page 34 of 44 Downloaded on : Thu Sep 09 06:52:32 IST 2021 R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

 reasonable grounds to believe that he is not guilty of the alleged offence
 and shall not commit similar offence while on bail. The Apex Court has
 unequivocally held the expression "reasonable ground" must mean
 "prima facie ground". [See State of Kerala vs. Rajesh . AIR 2020 SC 721
 (Para 21)]. Charge in this case involves possession of narcotic
 substances above commercial quantity. Hence, to obtain bail on merits,
 the petitioner would require to overcome the hurdle of satisfying the
 Court with regard to the twin requirements, as aforesaid. However, in
 the present case, the petitioner has sought bail not on merits but on the
 score of inordinate delay in trial which infracts his fundamental rights
 under Sections 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India. In rebuttal, it has
 been argued unless the petitioner has undergone half of the maxim
 sentence as envisaged under Section 436A of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, no such right can be said to have fructified in his favour.
 That apart, contribution of the petitioner and other accused persons in
 the delay must also be taken into consideration. In this regard learned
 Additional Solicitor General drew our attention to the observation of
 the Apex Court in the cited decision holding deprivation of liberty by
 the accused persons who have suffered half of the maximum
 punishment provided for the offence can be held to be violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. We are unable to accept the contentions of the learned
 Additional Solicitor General for the following reasons. The Apex Court while dealing with the issue of grant of bail on
 the score of inordinate delay in disposal of trials, had taken into
 consideration the statutory restrictions under Section 37 of the NDPS
 Act and held as follows : Aforesaid ratio clearly curves out a separate niche for grant of
 bail to under trials on the score of inordinate delay in contradistinction
 to bail on merits. Exercise of judicial discretion in this domain stands on
 a completely different footing from grant of bail on merits which is
 circumscribed by the restrictions envisaged under section 37 of the Act. Observation of the Court with regard to the under trials suffering
 half of the maximum sentence (as referred to by learned ASG) has to be
 read in the light of the subsequent directives issued by the court in
 NDPS cases. After analysis of the impact of inordinate and inexplicable
 delay on the fundamental rights of prisoners, the court explored the
 reliefs which may be made available to the incarcerated persons booked
 under NDPS Act :- It is argued that such directions were intended to operate as an
 "one time measure" in the State of Maharashtra. We, however, note
 that the directives were subsequently extended to the State of West
 Bengal and other States vide order dated 17th April, 1995 reported in
 1995(4) SCC 695. We are of the view that the aforesaid directives of
 the Apex Court in the matter of grant of bail due to inordinate delay are
 required to be taken into consideration and similar relief is to be
 extended to all undertrials who stand on the same footing. Liberty is an
 inalienable right of every individual guaranteed by our Constitution and
 cannot be whittled down by arbitrary categorisation. "Procedure
 established by law" under Article 21 cannot be viewed in isolation from
 the principles of "equal justice" or "equality before law" enshrined
 under Article 14. To achieve such universal equality it is imperative that
 the directives laid down by the Court in the said report be extended to
 all undertrials who are similarly circumstanced and are suffering
 protracted detention throughout the length and breadth of the country.
 Selective approach to personal liberty is an anathema to our
 constitutional scheme. Hence, it is the duty of every Court including the
 High Courts when faced with the question of "bail or jail" to bear in
 mind the beholden principles of parity and equal access to justice.
 Courts need to rise above petty technicalities to preserve and restore
 liberty to all similarly circumstanced persons. Failure to do so, would
 create privileged oases of liberty accessible to few and denial of
 freedom to most. This concern is poignantly highlighted by the Apex Court in Arnab Manoranjan Goswami Vs The State of Maharashtra & Ors. in
 Criminal Appeal No. 742 of 2020, wherein the Court held that the High
 Courts and the District Judiciaries are required to enforce the principle
 of "bail and not jail‟s discretion to in practice and not leave the court of last resort to
 intervene at all times. The Court observed that the remedy of bail is "an
 expression of the humanness of the criminal justice system" and it
 cannot be applied in an inverted manner. If we do not extend the
 wholesome directives in Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee (Supra) Page 37 of 44 Downloaded on : Thu Sep 09 06:52:32 IST 2021 R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

 to all under trials (in NDPS case) incarcerating in jail for more than five
 years, we would fail to discharge our constitutional duty to preserve
 personal liberty of citizens and apply the balm of humanness to those
 unfortunate undertrials who have failed to knock the door of the Apex
 Court. We are conscious that delay may also be caused by an accused
 and it is nobody's case that such a litigant can derive benefit out of his
 own wrong. However, the principle of apportionment of responsibility
 in the matter of delay in trial must be counteracted in the backdrop of
 the constitutional duty of the State to ensure effective and speedy
 prosecution. The Constitution assures every individual the precious
 right of personal liberty and when it is forfeited by the State to ensure
 administration of criminal justice a heavy corresponding duty is cast on
 it to ensure speedy conclusion of trial minimizing under trial detention.
 Directives in Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee (Supra) are to be
 viewed from such perspective. These directions cannot be whittled
 down or restricted by the operation of Section 436 A Cr.P.C. The said
 provision is an expression of similar anxiety of the legislature to
 minimize under trial detention. The directives of the Apex Court
 relating to bail and section 436A operate in the same field and are
 supplementary to one another. To read one in derogative of the other
 would amount to restricting the right of under-trials to bail in the face
 of inordinate delay in trials and would frustrate the very spirit of the
 aforesaid law. In this backdrop, we have gone through the records of the case
 and we do not find any special feature relating to contributory role of
 the petitioner in the inordinate delay in trial. Absence of forensic
 laboratories, under staffing in those laboratories, inadequate number of
 prosecutors and frequent transfer of official witnesses cause chronic
 delay in trial of narcotic cases. Adverting to such issues, the Apex Court
 in Thana Singh Vs. Central Bureau of Narcotics , (2013) 2 SCC 590
 issued various directions to ensure speedy trial. Thana Singh (Supra)
 quoted with approval the directives Supreme Court Legal Aid
 Committee (Supra). In spite of such directions, there is little progress in
 the ground and the bleak picture of delay persist to haunt under trials. In light of the aforesaid discussion, we are of the view that the
 directives in Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee (Supra) applies with
 full force to the facts of this case and the petitioner ought to be released
 on bail on the score of inordinate delay in trial infracting his
 fundamental rights under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. Accordingly, we direct that the petitioner shall be released on
 bail upon furnishing a bond of Rs. 2,00,000/- with ten sureties of Rs.
 20,000/- each, one of whom must be local, to the satisfaction of the
 learned Judge, Special Court under NDPS Act , North 24 Pargans, Page 38 of 44 Downloaded on : Thu Sep 09 06:52:32 IST 2021 R/CR.A/961/2021 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/08/2021

 subject to the conditions that petitioner shall appear before the trial
 court on every date of hearing until further orders and shall not
 intimidate the witnesses and/or tamper with evidence in any manner
 whatsoever and on further condition that the petitioner, while on bail,
 shall remain within the jurisdiction of Gardenreach Police Station until
 further orders except for the purpose of investigation and/or for
 attending Court proceedings and shall report to the Officer-in-Charge of
 the concerned police station and Mr. Kalyan Das, Superintendent,
 Customs, AIU, Legal Section, Customs House, 15/1, Strand Road,
 Kolkata- 700 001, once in a week until further orders. In the event the petitioner fails to appear before the trial court
 without justifiable cause, the trial court shall be at liberty to cancel his
 bail in accordance with law without further reference to this Court. Under-trial detention in India is a chronic malady in the
 administration of criminal justice. 25th Edition of the Prison Statistics
 in India as per NCRB Report, 2019 shows that 69.5 per cent of
 prisoners in Indian jail are undertrials. Under such circumstances and to ensure that equal justice is
 extended to all under trials who are incarcerated in jail for five years
 and more in NDPS cases, we direct the learned ASG as well as the
 learned Public Prosecutor, High Court, Calcutta to submit reports
 enumerating cases under NDPS Act where accused persons are in
 detention for five years or more." 26 We may also refer to the decision of the Supreme Court in the
case of State of Kerala vs. Rasheed reported in (2019) 13 SCC 297,
wherein the Supreme Court has laid down guidelines to be followed by
the Trial Courts in the conduct of a criminal trial as far as possible: 27 After the receipt of the report forwarded by the Special Judge
(NIA), Ahmedabad dated 28th July 2021 referred to above as regards the
status of the Special Case No.1 of 2017, we once again called for some
more information from the learned Special Judge (NIA). We have been
informed by the learned Special Judge (NIA) that as on date, she is in-
charge of almost seven trials under the NIA. We are further informed
that the Special Judge is in the midst of the sensational Naroda Patia
trial. This Naroda Patia trial has something to do with the riots of the
year 2002 and is going on past couple of years. We have also been
informed that besides being a Special Judge (NIA), she has to do other
judicial work as a City Civil Judge and also the administrative work of
the City Civil and Sessions Court. option, but to make a humble request to Honourable the Chief Justice to
consider recommending the Central Government to appoint at least two
Additional Judges to the Special Court as provided under Section 11(6) of the Act, 2008. We quote Section 11 of the Act, 2008, which falls in
Chapter IV titled "Special Courts" as under: 29 We make a humble request to Honourable the Chief Justice to
consider our aforesaid request so that the trial can proceed expeditiously
and the undertrial accused may not have to languish in jail for a long
period. 30 We also take notice of the fact as pointed out by Mr. Pandya that
the main accused in the present case is on bail. We may clarify that the
main accused got the benefit of default bail as the chargesheet could not
be filed within the statutory time period. However, the fact remains that
out of six accused chargeseheeted, three are on bail and one of those is
the main accused. 31 We were inclined to release the accused appellant on bail by
imposing appropriate conditions, however, we would like to observe for
three more months how the trial progresses further. On expiry of three
months, if we find that the status is the same, we will have to consider
releasing the accused appellant on bail. which, in our opinion, is very essential. We fail to understand why the
prosecuting agency has to examine 40 - 50 - 60 witnesses in a trial. We
are conscious of the fact that the special public prosecutor could be said
to be in-charge and master of the trial, but, at the same time, it is
expected of the Special Public Prosecutor to exercise his discretion when
it comes to examination of the prosecution witnesses. It is well settled
that it is the quality of the evidence that matters and not the quantity. If
the case of the prosecution could be established by examining 10
witnesses, then what is the need to examine 30 witnesses. At the cost of
repetition, we state that it is not the quantity but quality of the evidence
which matters. In the matter of appreciation of evidence of witnesses, it
is not the number of witnesses but quality of their evidence which is
important, as there is no requirement of law of evidence that any
particular number of witnesses is to be examined to prove / disprove a
fact. The guilt of an accused may be proved even by the testimony of a
single witness, if such witness is found to be wholly reliable. There is
another danger in insisting on plurality of witnesses. Irrespective of the
quality of the oral evidence of a single witness, if the Courts were to
insist on plurality of witnesses in proof of any fact, they will be indirectly
encouraging subordination of witnesses. 33 Where the number of witnesses is large, it is not, in our opinion,
necessary that everyone should be produced. In this connection, we may
refer to Malak Khan vs. Emperor [AIR 1946 Privy Council 16] where
their Lordships observed as follows at page 19 : 34 In this regard, the role of the Special Judge (NIA) would also
assume importance. The Special Judge should inquire with the Special
Public Prosecutor why he intends to examine a particular witness if such
witness is going to depose the very same thing which any other witness
might have deposed earlier. We may sound as if laying some guidelines,
but time has come to consider this issue of delay and bail in its true and
proper perspective. If an accused is to get a final verdict after
incarceration of six to seven years in jail as an undertrial prisoner, then,
definitely, it could be said that his right to have a speedy trial under Article 21 of the Constitution has been infringed. The stress of long trials
on accused persons - who remain innocent until proven guilty - can also
be significant. Accused persons are not financially compensated for what
might be a lengthy period of pre-trial incarceration. They may also have
lost a job or accommodation, experienced damage to personal
relationships while incarcerated, and spent a considerable amount of
money on legal fees. If an accused person is found not guilty, they have
likely endured many months of being stigmatized and perhaps even
ostracized in their community and will have to rebuild their lives with
their own resources. 35 We would say that [delays] are bad for the accused and extremely
bad for the victims, for Indian society and for the credibility of our
justice system, which is valued. Judges are the masters of their
Courtrooms and the Criminal Procedure Code provides many tools for
the Judges to use in order to ensure that cases proceed efficiently. three months so as to observe how the trial progresses further in next
three months. Post this matter on 22nd November 2021 before this Bench
(Coram : J. B. Pardiwala and V. D. Nanavati, JJ.). We treat this matter as
part heard. 37 We direct the Registry to call for the report as regards the status of NIA Special Case No.1 of 2017 from the Special Judge (NIA) one week
before the next listing. The report should reach the Registry by 18 th
November 2021. We also direct the Registry to place this judgement
before Honourable the Chief Justice. (J. B. PARDIWALA, J)

 (VAIBHAVI D. NANAVATI,J)
CHANDRESH Page 44 of 44 Downloaded on : Thu Sep 09 06:52:32 IST 2021