1. Heard learned counsel for the applicant and learned Additional Government Advocate representing the State. 2. The instant bail application under Section 483 of B.N.S.S. has been filed on behalf of the applicant with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No.11 of 2024, under Sections 376 IPC, Police Station Mahila Thana, District Gautam Buddh Nagar, during the pendency of trial. 3. Brief facts of the case, which are required to be stated are that victim lodged F.I.R. on 27.08.2024 against the applicant- Rohit Chaudhary and co-accused namely Jaiveer and Irshad alleging inter alia that She lived with her husband and children in Tal Residencia Society. A boy used to live in front of her flat, who used to stare at her from balcony. This went o for few days. On 20.03.2023, when she was going to drop her children to school, he showed her a video, which was of her changing cloths. He threatened to make it viral. In exchange for deleting it, he asked her to meet him. The next day he met her in a market and she sat in the car, he said that he would delete the video. She started crying, then he gave her water and said that he was deleting video. She became unconscious after drinking water. When she regain consciousness, she came to know that something wrong had happened to her. When she asked, he showed her the video after raping her, in which she had no cloths on her body and he threatened to make the video viral. Thereafter whenever he felt like it, he would call her. On 26.04.2023 and 30.04.2023 applicant took her to the flat of Jaiveer, where he and Jaiveer committed rape on her. Thereafter he sent her video to Irshad, then on the basis of said video Irshad has also raped her. On the basis of said video, they used to call her and blackmailing her raped her and also grabbed eighty thousand rupees. She has also stated that applicant used to call her in the car and made her drink water every time, after which she used to faint, so that she would not know that where he was taking her. On 01.10.202319 and 10.2023 she was called and raped by Irshad. On 26.10 2023, 30.10.2023 and 08.11.2023 she was raped by the applicant. Thereafter she narrated the entire story to her husband. 4. Main substratum of argument of learned counsel for the applicant is that applicant has been falsely implicated in the present case due to monitory dispute. In this regard, it is pointed out that applicant is close acquaintance gave Rs.1.5 lakh to Sandeep (husband of victim) for the treatment of the victim but the same was not returned. On making demand of said amount, victim in order to escape the said liability moved an application to the in charge of police station Bisrakh, Noida stating therein that applicant is her friend and she on her own volition several time made physical relation with him but he has her obscene video. On asking to delete the said video, he eaten her. After few days she gave another application making allegation of rape against the applicant. Both the said applications have been brought on record as annexure S.A.1 and 2. On the said applications of victim, an enquiry was conducted by the police and a report dated 20.11.2023 was submitted by the police mentioning therein that in and confidential enquiry, it was revealed that Vandana and Sandeep used to live on rent in some other society. In smilier manner Sandeep had filed a false complaint in the name of his wife and demanded money by pressurizing them.The allegation levelled by the victim against the applicant has been found false is false. The case is a money dispute between the applicant and victim?s husband, hence, no police action is required. The said report has been annexed as annexure no.3 to the supplementary affidavit dated 15.01.2024. Thereafter victim moved an application to the police, now she has compromised the matter, hence she does not wants any action against the applicant. The said fact has been incorporated by the investigating officer in CD N.23 dated 09.10.2024 stating inter alia that victim had extra- marital affairs with the applicant. It is also submitted that on the pretext of false F.I.R. victim and her husband demanded Rs. Five lakhs from the applicant. It is further pointed out that the mobile phone of the applicant was also taken by the Investigating Officer and it was sent for forensic examination but nothing has been found to corroborate the allegation of the prosecution, therefore, the Sections 66-E & 67 of Information Technology Act as mentioned in the F.I.R. has been deleted and other two co-accused persons, namely, Jayveer and Irshad have also been exonerated. The charge sheet has been submitted against the applicant only for the offence under Section 376 IPC. The victim was medically examined on 28.08.2024 but no opinion about the sexual assault has been given by the doctor. Lastly, it is submitted by learned counsel for the applicant that there is no chance of the applicant of fleeing away from the judicial process or tampering with the prosecution evidence. The applicant is languishing in jail since 31.08.2024 having no criminal history to his credit and in case he is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail and will cooperate in the early disposal of the case. 5. Per contra, learned Additional Government Advocate for the State opposed the prayer for bail of the applicant but could not dispute the above factual aspect of the matter as argued on behalf of the applicant. 6. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and examined the matter in its entirety, I find that it is not in dispute that the victim is married lady and is the mother of two children. She in the F.I.R. had made allegation inter alia that the applicant, Jayveer and Irshad have made physical relation with her several times by showing her video, whereas no such video has been found by the Investigating Officer and part of the prosecution case with regard to the making video and blackmailing the victim by showing said video has been found false, hence, no charge sheet under the I.T. Act has been submitted. Victim is a married woman. She has adequate intelligence and maturity to understand the significance and morality associated with the act of sexual intercourse, for which she was consenting to. Despite first act of alleged rape she did not make complaint to her husband and behind the back of her husband, she kept going to the accused persons and having physical relations with them. The facts of the case prima facie indicates that it is not a case of rape but a case of consensual relation of the applicant with the victim as noted by the investigating officer in the case dairy no. 23. There are several facts which are required to be proved by the prosecution before the trial Court in accordance with law at the appropriate stage, hence there is no need to discuss the same in this order in exercise of powers under Section 439 Cr.P.C. 7. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case as well as keeping in view the nature of the offence, evidence, complicity of the accused and submissions of the learned counsel for the parties, as noted above. I am of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. Hence, the bail application is hereby allowed. 8. Let the applicant- Rohit Chaudhary, be released on bail in the aforesaid case crime number on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions: 9. In case of breach of any of the conditions mentioned above, court concerned will be at liberty to cancel the bail of the applicant. 10. It is made clear that the observations contained in the instant order are confined to the issue of bail only and shall not affect the merit of the trial. Order Date :- 15.1.2025
 
Sanjeet