Heard over anticipatory bail application under Section 438 of Code of Criminal Procedure, moved by Maheshwar Dutt Sharma, in Case Crime No. 533/2014, under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 406 , 120-B, Police Station Shahibabad, District Ghaziabad. Prior notice of this bail application was served in the office of Government Advocate and as per Chapter XVIII, Rule 18 of the Allahabad High Court Rules and as per direction dated 20.11.2020 of this Court in Criminal Misc. Anticipatory Bail Application U/S 438 Cr.P.C . No. 8072 of 2020, Govind Mishra @ Chhotu Versus State of U.P., hence, this anticipatory bail application is being heard. Grant of further time to the learned A.G.A as per Section 438 (3) Cr.P.C. (U.P. Amendment) is not required. Learned counsel for the applicant argued that applicant is innocent. He is of 80 years old. He is of no concern with alleged offence. Two co-accused were responsible for above offence but both of them had died. A bailable warrant has been issued against applicant. Hence instant fear of arrest of applicant is there and he is suffering with old age diseases. Hence, this application with above prayer. Learned AGA has vehemently opposed, but could not oppose this fact that initially a Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 15109 of 2015 ( Maheshwar Dutt Sharma Vs. State of U.P. through S.S.P. and two others) was filed before this Court and this Court after hearing, has granted a protection till submission of police report, under Section 173(2) of Cr.P.C. and in the present case, chargesheet has been filed, wherein, bailable warrant has been issued. Applicant is not appearing before above Court and once there is bailable warrant, then no apprehension of arrest is there. Applicant may appear before the Court which had issued bailable warrant and make attempt to get bail. Accused- applicant is not amenable to the process of Court as well as interim protection previously given. Hence, this application be dismissed. Having heard and gone through the material placed on record, considering the principles laid down in Sidharam Satlingappa Mhetre versus State of Maharashtra and others , reported in (2011)1 SCC 694 as well as constitution Bench of Apex Court decision in Sushila Aggarwal versus State (NCT of Delhi ) reported in (2020) 5 SCC 1 and decision of Apex Court in Myakala Dharmarajam versus The State of Telangana , reported in 2020 (2) SCC 743, propounded that at the time of considering an application for grant of anticipatory bail, nature and gravity of the accusation and the exact role of the accused; the antecedents of the applicant including the fact as to whether the accused has previously undergone imprisonment on conviction by a Court in respect of any cognizable offence; from the possibility of the applicant fleeing from justice; likelihood of applicant repeating similar or other offences; where the accusations have been made only with the object of injuring or humiliating the applicant by arresting him or her; impact of grant of anticipatory bail particularly in cases of large magnitude affecting a very large number of people as well as consideration of Court; the entire available material against the accused and comprehensive exact role of accused in alleged offence is to be appreciated. The application seeking anticipatory bail should contain bare essential fact relating to offence and why the applicant reasonably apprehends arrest as well as his side of story is the essential for the Court to consider application and to evaluate the threat or apprehension, its gravity or seriousness and the appropriateness of any condition that may have to be imposed. While considering an application for grant of anticipatory bail, the Court has to consider the nature of offence, the role of the person, the likelihood of his influencing the course of investigation or tempering with evidence (including intimidating witnesses), likelihood of fleeing justice (such as leaving the country etc.) should also be considered. The Courts ought to be generally guided by consideration such as the nature and gravity of the offences, role attributed to the applicant and the fact of the case, while considering whether to grant anticipatory bail or refuse it. Whether to grant or not is a matter of discretion; equally whether and if so, what kind of special conditions are to be imposed (or not imposed) are dependent on facts of the case, and is subject to the discretion of the Court. In the present case informant has got this case crime number registered, under aforesaid sections of Indian Penal Code , against Surendra Kumar Parchuri, Ravindra Kumar Bagga and Maheshwar Dutt Sharma, at police station Shahibabad, District Ghaziabad, for offences of deceit, fraud, manufacturing of forged and fictitious documents and thereby receiving huge amount of money from informant. The same is a payment made through RTGS in the tune of Rs. 5,50000/-, on 15.3.2013 as well as amount of Rs. 5 lacs through cheque No. 98370 by RTGS. The total amount of Rs. 10,50000/-, was received by way of bank transaction. Subsequently, alleged loan was not sanctioned nor money was returned back. Meaning thereby, it was a financial scam by way of mis- representation, impersonation, deceit, wherein, huge amount of Rs. 10,50000/-, was received by way of RTGS. But neither terms were complied with nor money was paid back and this Court by Division Bench in aforesaid proceeding considered the matter and granted relief till submission of police report under Section 173(2) of Cr.P.C. Meaning thereby, after that no protection was there. A report under Section 173(2) of Cr.P.C. has been filed before Court. Admittedly, cognizance has been taken by Court and a bailable warrant has been issued against applicant. It is not a non bailable warrant and there is no instant apprehension of arrest because the warrant is bailable warrant. Hence, considering above legal proposition and the facts of present case, heinousness of offence, no ground for anticipatory bail is there. Accordingly, this application is rejected. However, trial Court may not be prejudiced by any finding given by this Court, as above, in disposing bail application of accused, if being moved before trial Court. Order Date :- 9.7.2021
 
Kamarjahan