1.1 Inordinate delays in the investigation and prosecution of criminal cases
involving serious offences and in the trial of such cases in the Courts is a blot
on justice system. The objective of penal law and the societal interest in
setting the criminal law in motion against the offenders with reasonable
expedition is thereby frustrated. The adverse effect of delay on the society at
large is immeasurable. The fear of law and the faith in the criminal justice
system is eroded irretrievably. 1.2 The case referred to in this Writ Petition is an extreme example of the
slow-motion of criminal justice process and the extent to which it can be
subverted. It unfolds the apparent apathy on the part of all those concerned
with administration of criminal justice. The fact that influential political
personalities and their henchmen are involved in this case presents an added
dimension to the issue and raises questions on the efficacy of the existing
systems and practices to counter the moves of such influential persons facing
serious criminal charges. 1.3 Public interest demands that the criminal cases especially those related
to serious crimes are concluded within a reasonable time so that those guilty
are punished. Further, from the point of view of accused also, the right to
speedy trial is a fundamental right. People get frustrated in the system if at
every stage there is delay and the process of justice is not allowed to take its
normal course, more so, when deliberate attempts are made to subvert and
delay the process. Further, with the long passage of time, whatever evidence is
there, it will vanish or eclipse. Oral evidence which in most of the cases is vital
to the prosecution, will take a devious or distorted course. Hostile witnesses
and witnesses with faded memories will be writ large in the system, with the
long passage of time. Heavy reliance on oral evidence has telling drawbacks.
Lack of expertise and sustained effort in investigation and non-utilization of 5 scientific methods of investigation is resulting in low rate of convictions and
even implication of innocent accused persons. 1.4 Before the specifics of the problem are discussed, it would be useful to
refer to certain data touching on the general scenario of criminal justice in the
country with special reference to the cases pending in the District and
Subordinate (D&S) courts. 1.5 The total number of criminal cases pending before D&S Courts is about
1.90 crore (190 lakh) cases, about 82¼ lakhs civil cases are pending. That
means, the number of criminal cases is about 2 ½ times more than civil cases.
The largest number of criminal cases are from the States of UP, Maharashtra,
West Bengal, Gujarat, Bihar, Rajasthan and Odisha. 1 In 12 States, out of
which there are eight major States, the disposals are less than the institutions.
However, on the whole, the institutions and disposals are almost matching in
the year 2010. Out of the pending criminal cases, about 25% of the cases are

pending for five years and more in many States. 1.6 At the end of the year 2010, 72.58 lakh cognizable criminal cases under IPC were pending trial2 and 48.54 lakh cognizable criminal cases under Special
and Local Laws were pending trial.3 Trials were concluded in about 55.88 lakh
cases (both IPC & SLL cases) during that year. 1.7 According to the data compiled by National Crime Records Bureau
(NCRB), in its Publication relating to the year 2010 , over 1.78 crore
cognizable criminal cases, including cases registered under IPC and
special/local laws (SLL), were pending for trial at the beginning of 2010 in
various criminal courts.4 67.51 lakh cognizable crimes comprising 22.25 lakh

1 Data received from High Courts. 2 Table 4.9, Crimes in India, 2010 Statistics, published by National Crime Records Bureau, Ministry of Home
Affairs, Government of India. 3 Ibid, Table 4.13

4 Ibid, Tales 4.9 and 4.13 6 IPC Crimes and 45.26 lakh crimes under SLL were reported in 2010. 5 The
figures relating to cases pending trial do not apparently tally with the
statistics shown in 'Court News' published by Supreme Court and the data
furnished by the High Courts to Law Commission of India and this aspect is
being rechecked. 1.8 6330 cases have been pending investigation from previous year under
the Prevention of Corruption Act (PoCA) & related sections of the IPC in 2010
and 3822 cases were registered during the year. Therefore, a total of 10152
cases were pending investigation in 2010 out of which chargesheet was filed for
2929 cases.6 In relation to these cases, 4578 persons were chargesheeted.
Trial was completed for 3379 persons, out of whom 891 persons were
convicted. Hence, the conviction rate vis-à-vis persons accused under PoCA in
2009 is 26.4%.7
1.9 Conviction rate in 2010 for violent crimes such as attempt to commit
murder, rape, riots etc., is 27.7%. Conviction rate for crimes against women
( IPC and SLL cases) for 2010 is 27.8%. 8 Conviction rate for all cognizable cases
under IPC is 40.7%.9
1.10 In the State of Jharkhand (which needs special mention as specific
reference has been made to that State in this W.P.), about 2.41 lakh criminal
cases are pending. The total pendency of Civil and Crl. Cases in that State is
about 2.93 lakh. Out of the Criminal cases, 60,500 including sessions cases
are more than five years old.10 There were as many as 192 vacancies in
District & Subordinate Judiciary in the State of Jharkhand as on 31 ST
December, 2010. 5 Ibid, Figures At A Glance - 2010

6 Ibid, Table 9.1

7 Ibid, Table 9.2

8 Ibid, Figures At A Glance - 2010

9 Ibid, Table 4.11

10 Data received from High Court of Jharkhand 7 1.11 Year to year, the trend of increase in pendency of criminal cases
including old cases is noticed except in a few States. 1.12 The total number of Jails (upto 2009) is 1374 and the total capacity of all
jails in India is 3,07,052. However, the total number of inmates as on
31.12.2009 are 3,76,969. This shows that the number of jail inmates far
exceeds the capacity of the jails in India. Out of them, 2,50,204 inmates
representing 66.4% of the jail population are undertrial prisoners. Among
them, the highest percentage (20%) of undertrials were charged with murder.
2422 (1%) undertrials were detained in jails for more than 5 years at the end of
the year 2009.11 2. Causes For Delay - An Overview
2.1 The causes for delay in investigation and slip-shod investigation need to
be taken stock of first in order to appreciate the problem in the proper
perspective and to devise ways and means of checking the malady. Though the
judiciary is not responsible for many delays that occur, in the public
perception, it is the judiciary that is mainly responsible. Judiciary is mostly
blamed without appreciating the real reasons. The judiciary, on its part,
remains silent and refrains from conveying to the public that certain delays are
beyond its control. This being the ground reality, what the judiciary is
expected to do, is to introspect on the delays attributable to it and to vigorously
undertake such measures, as are essential, to put its house in order. It is in
this background that some essential remedial measures to be adopted by the
judiciary are highlighted and they have direct or indirect bearing on the
prosecution and trial of influential public men. 2.2 The causes for delay before the case reaches the Court for trial 1. Apathy and inaction on the part of the police in registering the FIRs and
 taking up the investigation in right earnest for various reasons. (This is
 so inspite of Police Manuals emphasizing the need for speedy and prompt
 investigation.)

11Snapshots - 2009, Prison Statistics India 2009, National Crime Records Bureau, Ministry of Home Affairs,
Government of India 8 2. Police are either hesitant to proceed with the investigation against
 important/influential persons or they are under pressure not to act
 swiftly especially if the person accused is in power or an active member
 of the ruling party. They adopt a pusillanimous attitude when the
 accused are such persons. 3. Corruption at Police Station level is affecting the timely and qualitative

 investigation. Further, the Police Stations are understaffed and the police
 personnel lack motivation to act without fear or favour. 4. When the FIR is not registered within a reasonable time or the pace of
 investigation is tardy, there is no internal mechanism to check this
 effectively. Even in States where Addl. SPs are posted in every District to
 be mainly in charge of crimes (as distinct from general law and order
 duties) the situation has not improved, except marginally. 5. There is no periodical exercise to upgrade the skills of investigation. There is no intelligence network worth the name to get the inputs of
 crime and corruption and to take up preventive measures. 6. Sufficient priority is not given for investigation of crimes. The diversion
 of personnel from the Police Stations for various relatively unimportant
 duties such as 'Bandobust' is a common phenomenon. In most of the
 States, the existing police force attached to police stations is utterly
 inadequate and even the sanctioned strength always remains in deficit. 7. Sanctions for prosecution are unduly delayed by the Governments. These reasons are not peculiar to cases of public men - they are all
 problems surrounding the Criminal Justice system as a whole.
2.3 Quality of investigation and documentation: The result is that Police heavily lean towards oral evidence, instead of
 concentrating on scientific and circumstantial evidence. (ii) Sufficient care and effort is not devoted for examining and recording
 the statements of witnesses. Further, promptness in this regard is found
 to be wanting. (iii) The statements/FIRs/reports recorded are not fed to the computer
 immediately either because there is no computer network or there is no
 personnel trained in the job or for want of specific instructions. (iv) Sufficient care and time is not bestowed in drafting the final
 reports/charge- sheets. Defective charge-sheets without narration of all
 relevant facts and charge-sheets unaccompanied by annexures are
 reported to be very common and tend to delay the proceedings. This
 important document which is normally prepared by a 'Writer' at the
 Police Station, is not carefully scrutinized by the Station House Officer.
 The 'Writer' posted at heavy Police Stations is overworked and can hardly
 spare the needed time. (v) The photographs of accused (not to speak of witnesses) are not affixed
 to the charge-sheets/arrest Memos etc. nor even the identification marks
 are noted, making it difficult to identify the accused in the course of trial
 or to trace the absconding accused. 2.4 Causes for delay in the progress of Crl. cases in trial Courts 1) Absence of some or all the accused or non-production of undertrial
 prisoners at the stage of framing of charges and during trial. Earnest
 efforts are not being made by the Police in apprehending and producing
 the absconding accused. Execution of warrants has become the least
 priority for the police who have their own reasons - genuine as well as
 artificial. Where there are large number of accused, the delays on this 10 account have become a routine feature. If the accused are residing
 outside the District or the State, it compounds the problem further. 2) Police fail to ensure that prosecution witnesses turn up in time and quite
 often, even I.Os are defaulters. Trial cases are adjourned quite often for
 non-attendance of official witnesses. 3) One or the other advocate appearing for the accused seeking
 adjournments without adequate justification mainly to delay the trial or
 to give handle to the accused party to win over the witnesses. The heavy
 workload in the courts is taken advantage of by the advocates to press
 for adjournments. The witnesses are often constrained to leave the court
 without being examined. Sometimes, the Prosecution also seeks
 adjournment without prior notice to the advocate for the accused. 4) Lack of proper witness protection measures and the Court failing to act
 promptly in cases of complaints of harassment/inducement of witnesses. 5) Trial Judges not putting in place effective case management measures
 such as fixing up proper time-schedules and ensuring continuity in trial
 and dealing with the advocates with firmness and tact. Further, there is
 a tendency on the part of some of the Judges to be complacent, once they
 reach the prescribed number of units (i.e. required number of disposals
 per month). 6) Judges trying serious offences under the special Acts such as PC Act,
 NDPS Act , Economic offences being transferred (even when there are no
 specific complaints) before they complete their three year term. 7) Trial Judges not effectively availing of certain provisions of Cr. PC viz,
 Sections 293, 294 and 296. Section 299 (recording of evidence in
 absence of accused) being resorted to belatedly. So also delays are
 noticed in issuing proclamation orders against absconding accused. 8) Inadequate number of Courts especially in some major States. 9) Inadequate staff strength and deficient recruitment process. 10) Absence of effective mechanism at the High Court level to identify old
 matters especially Session cases and to take necessary remedial
 measures on regular basis. 11) District Judges not bringing to the notice of the High Court extraordinary
 delays being caused in specific cases while furnishing monthly/quarterly
 statements to the High Court. 12) Trials are often held up on account of pendency of quash proceedings in
 the High Courts after the charges are framed. In the recent judgment of
 Supreme Court in Imtiyaz Ahmad's Case [2012(2)SCALE 81], this problem has been
 dealt with and appropriate directions given. 2.5 Public Prosecutors: There is no effective mechanism to oversee the functioning of Public
 Prosecutor. The recruitment process is either deficient or politically
 manipulated. The provision in Section 24(4) of Cr.P.C. which requires the
 District Magistrate to prepare a panel of names fit to be appointed as
 PPs/Addl.PPs for the district in consultation with the Sessions Judge,
 has been deleted or amended by many States. It is the sole prerogative
 of State Government to appoint PPs and Addl.PPs of their choice in many
 States. (ii) Though the Cr.P.C . enjoins the constitution of Directorate of Prosecution
 and normally a Director of the rank of District Judge is appointed as
 Director, he is required to function under the administrative control of
 the Home Secretary vide Section 25A(3). Home Secretary hardly evinces
 any interest in matters related to Directorate of Prosecution. The Director
 and Deputy Director have no functional independence and they can only
 exercise peripheral supervision over the PPs/APPs. (iii) Lack of coordination between the Police and Public Prosecutor. The
 assistance of concerned Police Officers is seldom available to Public
 Prosecutors. Prosecutors often feel helpless. 2.6 The principal causes of low rate of conviction are: (ii) Is it desirable and practicable to define or give a long list of such
 influential persons ? Should it not be left to the Police Officer or
 the Court concerned or the supervisory authority to identify cases
 of such persons and take necessary measures? (iii) What steps are to be suggested to avoid delays and to ensure
 unhindered investigation and trial? How the monitoring
 mechanism has to be evolved? What role should the District
 Judges and High Courts play in this regard as well as in the
 clearance of old cases? 3. Influential persons in public life - illustrative list. The question whether the term 'influential person in public life' needs to
be defined has engaged the attention of the Law Commission. The Commission
feels that such definition is not feasible and it does not serve any purpose. The
influential persons are not merely those who are holding or who have held
public offices; even their henchmen and close relations, the rich and powerful
and men with muscle power having links with one or the other political party
are quite influential in their own way and they have the potential to create
stumbling blocks for smooth investigation and effective trial. Moreover, it is
not desirable to give too much of an expansive meaning to this term so as to 13 include elected representatives at the Panchayat level or all the office-bearers of
various political parties. To specify with precision the term 'influential person
in public life' is a complex task. It is a wide and nebulous term. The whole
object of specifying influential persons in public life as a category is to enable
the Police and Judicial Officers concerned to keep track of cases involving
such persons and to endeavour avoidance of delays and bottlenecks in the way
of speedy investigation and trial. It must be left to the Police/Judicial Officers
concerned to identify such persons creating delays and obstacles. Instead of
drawing up an exhaustive list of the so-called influential persons, a broad
indication as to whose cases should come up for special attention is sufficient.
An illustrative list of the influential persons in public life is perhaps more
appropriate. Accordingly, MPs, MLAs/MLCs including Ministers (former or
present), Mayors, Chairpersons of Municipalities/Zila Parishads, elected or
nominated Chairpersons (non-officials) of other State-level Public bodies and
important office bearers of political parties at State level can be treated as
influential persons in public life. 4. Cases against high Government officials: Public interest demands that investigation, prosecution and trials ought not to
be allowed to drag on for years together. The bottlenecks coming in the way of
prompt investigation and speedy trial should be removed. Old cases,
irrespective of who the accused is, should not be allowed to clog the system.
The causes for delays should be identified and remedial measures should be
taken to remove all bottlenecks coming in the way of speedy investigation and
trial. Special Courts for the so-called influential persons cannot be constituted
without reference to nature of offences or class of offences as it would be
against the basic principles of criminal justice. Any such differential treatment
would attract the wrath of Article 14. There shall be uniform application of
criminal law irrespective of the status of the accused. If there is material
suggestive of the fact that the investigation is not being done swiftly at the
instance of such influential public men or they are resorting to dilatory or
intimidatory acts, that may be a ground to put in place such measures as are
necessary to remove obstacles, but not to place all the cases involving Public
men en bloc on fast-track irrespective of the age of the case. 4.3.3 On the other hand, it is argued with much force that the cases of those
who are in a position of authority or those who can wield considerable
influence by virtue of their political affiliations and proximity to ruling party
create the need to bestow special attention by the police and the Court system.
Needless to say that such cases have social ramifications, because those persons
in spite of their criminal disposition can pervasively enter and influence the political and
democratic process. It hardly needs emphasis that the criminalization of politics is a malady that
is seriously bothering the society at the present juncture. According to the civil society alliance
of the Association for Democratic Reforms and the National Election Watch, 153 Members of
Parliament are accused in criminal cases, out of them 74 are accused of serious offences such as
murder, attempt to murder, abduction, etc.12 If this situation is allowed to remain, the
fundamental right of citizens to have a clean democratic process will be in
jeopardy. It is, therefore, necessary to keep a tab on such cases only to ensure
that the course of justice is not obstructed or deflected by extraneous
influences. If the accusations against such persons remain uninvestigated or
investigated in a slip-shod manner, it gives rise to a reasonable suspicion that
the police is in the grips of their influence. If the things are left out to take
their own course without any scrutiny or monitoring at higher levels, the
criminal justice process will take a devious course and throw up a challenge to
the rule of law. Such situations should, therefore, be taken care of and in
doing so, the authorities concerned do not adopt any discriminatory treatment.
On the other hand, the community faith in the administration of criminal
justice is thereby enhanced. 4.3.4 So also, at the stage of trial of criminal cases involving the aforesaid
persons, it is expedient and desirable to keep an eye over such cases to make
sure that undue delays are not caused by reason of the attempts made by them
to protract the trial or to make the witnesses scarce. It is only for this limited
purpose, special attention must be bestowed on such cases so that the trial will
progress unhindered, as is expected of the system and nothing more. 12 http://news.bbc.co.uk, visited 24.02,2012 17 4.3.5 The Commission is of the view that the cases of influential persons in
public life need to come up for special focus for the reason that the experience
shows occurrence of long delays both in investigation and trial. This is
because of the influence they can wield with the Police and witnesses. Delays
are also often caused by their prolonged abstinence from the court proceedings
and the Police not taking effective steps to produce them in Court. Secondly,
the persons holding public offices have a role to play in democratic governance
and the people have legitimate expectation that the elected representatives are
clean and free from criminal misconduct. Thus, public are equally interested in
early conclusion of trial. The cloud cast on them should not linger on for years
and decades. 4.3.6 In this context, it is useful to refer to the pertinent observations made by
the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court in Ganesh Narayan vs. S.
Bangarappa,13 observed: "the slow motion becomes much slower motion when
politically powerful or high and influential persons figure as accused". The
Supreme Court cited with approval the following observations of Krishna Iyer,
J. in Re Spl. Courts Bill, 197814: "Courts are less to blame than the Code made
by Parliament for dawdling and Government are guilty of denying or delaying
basic amenities for the judiciary to function smoothly. Justice is a Cinderella in
our scheme. Even so, leaving V.V.I.P. accused to be dealt with by the routinely
procrastinating legal process is to surrender to interminable delays as an
inevitable evil. Therefore, we should not be finical about absolute processual
equality and must be creative in innovating procedures compelled by special
situations". 4.3.7 In that reference under Article 143 of the Constitution, the legality of
setting up of Special Courts to investigate the offences committed by persons
who held high public or political offices had come up for consideration before
the Supreme Court. The Special Courts were ordained to be set up to try the
offences alleged to have been committed during Emergency (in 1976) and some
months prior to that. The constitutional validity of that provision was
substantially upheld. However, in so far as the offences committed prior to

13(1995) 4 SCC 41

14(1979) 1 SCC 380 18 Emergency is concerned, the Supreme Court did not approve the rationality of
such classification.15 5. Special Courts
 Special Courts are set up quite often in cases involving large scale
financial scams and diversion of public funds by those in public offices or
corporate management. Crimes having inter-state criminal communal
ramifications imperiling the security of society or terrorist crimes are also tried
by Special Courts set up on ad hoc basis by the Governments. These are apart
from regular Special Courts in vogue to try offences under the P.C. Act, the SC
& ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act , Economic offences etc. Large number of
accused and the serious nature of crimes said to have been committed by them
also afford justification to set up Special Courts. In this category falls the
Jharkhand Case cited in the Writ Petition. The extraordinary delay in that
case and a host of other cases and the causes that led to the delay reveal the
need to set up a special court and the High Court supervising the progress of
trial. Creation of more special courts to deal with corruption cases is an area
which is engaging the attention of Central Government and High Courts.
Crimes allegedly committed by influential persons holding high offices in
extraordinary situations such as Emergency was held to be a justifiable ground
to set up Special Courts. But, any blanket direction to set up Special Courts
wherever influential public personalities are involved ought to be avoided,
especially viewed from Article 14 angle. Special and extra-ordinary situations
should be present, apart from the accused being in an influential position in
public life. 6. Approach to be adopted: 7. Some measures that may be directed to be taken by the
 Police after FIR is received/recorded (i) A copy of FIR concerning the involvement of influential public men in
 cognizable crimes, apart from being sent to the Magistrate, should also
 be forwarded to SP/SSP concerned. (ii) The investigation should be taken up promptly and with expedition
 [unless the police officer concerned forms an opinion under clause (b) of
 the proviso to Section 157(1) Cr.P.C]. The SP/SSP shall, from time to
 time, get reports from the SHO regarding the course and progress of
 investigation and issue suitable instructions. He may render such
 assistance as may be required by the SHO in this regard, to wit,
 providing additional police force, securing reports from the forensic
 science laboratories expeditiously etc. (iii) The investigation shall be completed as far as possible within three
 months and at any rate not later than six months. The charge-sheet
 shall be filed within a month thereafter along with requisite documents
 properly indexed. A copy of the draft charge-sheet to be sent to SP/SSP
 for vetting. (iv) The FIR, the statement of accused and witnesses examined and the
 record prepared by I.O. from time to time should be computerized so 20 that they could be made available to all concerned in an electronic form
 (non-re-recordable compact disc). (v) The I.O., SP/SSP should be held personally responsible for the failure to
 ensure that the investigation is completed within the specified time limit
 and they shall face disciplinary proceedings for non-compliance, unless
 they establish that reasonably diligent steps were being taken by them.
 The responsibility lies with the DGP to initiate such disciplinary action as
 may be warranted. (vi) The SP/SSP should maintain a record of FIRs in respect of influential
 public persons so as to enable him to keep track of such cases from time
 to time. (vii) In cases involving influential public personalities, resort to S. 164 Cr. P.C. should be made more frequently. (viii) While investigation of offences under the provisions of Cr. P.C. is the
 exclusive domain of the police, the Judl. Magistrate should have limited
 role to play to counter the moves of persons in influential positions to

 subvert the effective process of investigation. Accordingly, the I.O.
 shall bring to the notice of Magistrate the bottlenecks, if any, that are
 coming in the way of speedy investigation including the attempts being
 made by the accused to hinder the investigation. The Magistrate shall,
 apart from taking such steps as are permissible under law, for example,
 issuing summons for the production of documents in the custody of
 suspect/accused/or a third party, may also send up a report to the
 District Judge for appropriate action on the administrative side to
 eliminate delays.. (ix) In respect of serious crimes i.e. cognizable and punishable with
 imprisonment of 5 years or more irrespective of whether public men are
 involved, if investigation has not been completed within 6 months, a
 report has to be submitted by the I.O. to the SP/SSP who shall take
 necessary action to ensure completion of investigation. The SPs/SSPs 21 should maintain a register of such cases where there are delays in
 investigation and should take remedial steps to remove the bottlenecks. (x) The photograph of the accused and full address/phone numbers, e-mail
 I.D. if any, shall be obtained and the photos be affixed to the arrest
 Memo and charge-sheet. (This is being done in some States e.g.
 Maharashtra). (xi) The Police should take requisite steps to ensure proper and prompt
 maintenance of medico-legal registers maintained at the hospitals.
7.1 Duty of police in cases where there are no formal complaints: Normally, it should be done within 3 or 4 months. 17 The Secretary in charge of
the Department should ensure this. 8. Measures to be taken after the Court is seized of the matter
 (during trial): b) In Sessions cases, if there are inordinate delays attributable to the
 accused/police/prosecution, and the ADJs trying the case feel helpless,
 it should be brought to the notice of District Judge who shall apprise the
 SP/SSP of the problem at the earliest and alert them to initiate necessary
 action by way of apprehending the accused or producing the witnesses.
 Inspite of that if the Police do not respond, the District Judge shall send
 up a special report to the High Court especially if the case relates to an
 influential public person. c) Similarly, the District Judge should inform the High Court wherever
 inordinate delays are experienced by the District Judge in the trial of
 Sessions cases and the SP/SSP is not taking sufficient action. d) There must be special drive to secure the attendance of Proclaimed
 offenders. e) Applications for witness protection should be promptly disposed of by the
 trial Courts by giving appropriate directions to the Police. f) There must be a Special Cell in the High Court exclusively to take stock
 of old pending Sessions cases. The Cell headed by a Registrar level
 officer should promptly bring to the notice of the concerned
 Administrative/Portfolio Judge or any other Judge/Committee
 nominated by the Chief Justice for this purpose, the factum of pendency
 of such cases, the District Judge's report, if any, and the reasons
 furnished for prolongation of the cases. It is desirable that the Judges of
 High Court who have comparatively less administrative work, are
 entrusted with the job of taking effective measures to check the delays 23 and pave the way for early conclusion of criminal trials. In this process,
 the concerned Administrative/Portfolio Judge may also be associated.
 The Special Cell should regularly coordinate with the Committee. The
 said Committee based on the information received from the District
 Judge in the quarterly statement or otherwise, should take necessary
 measures on the administrative side to remove the bottlenecks in the
 progress of trial, for instance, by way of giving necessary instructions to
 the DGP/DIG/SP. g) In the quarterly statements also, the District Judges should record brief
 reasons for the delay in Sessions cases which are more than 3 years old
 from the date of framing the charges and inter-alia they must state
 whether the case relates to an influential public person. h) Top priority should be given to the Sessions cases especially those
 related to influential public persons which are more than 5 years old (or
 even less depending on the workload position). The concerned High
 Court Committee should bestow special attention to such cases and
 review the progress from time to time so that the trial concludes most
 expeditiously. If necessary, the Committee may take steps for the
 transfer of such cases to the Court having less workload. Obviously,
 however, the Committee of High Court ought not to say anything even
 indirectly on the merits of the case, even if obstructionist tactics are
 adopted by the accused for some reason or the other. i) The norm of continuity of trial shall be strictly observed in all cases
 (above 5 year old or even less depending on the workload positron), more
 especially in the cases related to important political persons. As a part of
 case management process, a calendar of dates should be drawn up for
 trial in consultation with the learned advocates and PP and the time-
 schedule shall be substantially adhered to. The High Court may, from
 time to time issue circulars stressing the need to adhere to the time-
 schedule and refusal of adjournments (unless there are special and 24 exceptional reasons) and they shall be exhibited on the notice-board of
 the Court and Bar Association. By assuming a more proactive role in taking various measures as
 stated above, the High Courts will only be acting within the purview of
 the jurisdiction and authority conferred on them under Articles 235 and 227 of the Constitution of India as well as Section 483 of Cr. P.C.
 However, to make the position more clear, certain amendments to Cr.
 P.C. as per Annexure are desirable. High Courts have to frame Rules or
 issue Circulars in exercise of the powers conferred by the proposed
 provisions in Annexure. In any case, the High Courts can very well
 invoke Art. 235 of the Constitution to play their due role in ensuring
 speedy disposal of criminal cases. j) The High Court, on the judicial side, should give top priority to the
 disposal of quash petitions/revisions in the pending trial matters.
 Records are not to be called for in such cases unless the perusal of any
 original document is found necessary. The trial can go on unless there is
 specific order of stay and this can be made clear by a circular issued by
 High Court. k) The Special Cell should bring to the notice of Chief Justice from time to
 time the Sessions and other cases involving major crimes pending trial in
 which proceedings are stayed or the records are called for. In this
 connection, the recent judgment of Supreme Court in Imtiyaz Ahmed Vs.
 State of U.P.18 is quite relevant. l) Any representation by the aggrieved persons or victims regarding undue
 delay in the disposal of criminal cases shall receive due attention of the
 District Judge as well as the High Court Committee. Any such
 representations received by the Registry should be forwarded to the
 Special Cell. 18 2012(2) SCALE 81 25 m) The Special Cell should also keep record of Sessions Cases or other cases
 punishable with imprisonment of more than 3 years against the
 advocates, as pointed out by the Law Commission of India in its written
 submissions to the Allahabad High Court (Lucknow Bench) in W.P. No.
 9925 (M/B) of 2010, and place the information before the Committee of
 Judges so that appropriate directions may be given by the Committee to
 ensure early disposal of such cases. 9. Need for ear-marked Police personnel for Court duties: The fact remains that Police do not consider it as a priority item and they act in
a casual and routine manner. Even the prominent accused (holding a public
position or leading a political party) are shown as absconding or not available
for contact, as demonstrated by the case on hand. There is only one Police
Constable attached to each Criminal Court and some times that single
Constable attends to the work of two courts. He acts as a post office to carry
the summons/warrants to the Police Station and leave it to the SHO to act on
it. There are innumerable instances in which the Police Officer concerned does
not even send up a report to the Court as to the stage of NBW and the specific
reason for non-apprehension of the accused. In the State of Jharkhand, the
feedback is that warrants remain unexecuted for months and years as the
Police personnel are not available for attending to this work, inasmuch as they 26 are deployed on duty in remote and sensitive areas to cope up with the
extremist menace etc.
9.2 In almost all the States, periodical meetings of District Judge with
SSP/SP take place and in such meetings, the pendency of unexecuted NBWs
and the progress made since the last meeting, are reviewed. So also, when the
Administrative/Portfolio Judges go on visits to the concerned districts, the
Supdts. of Police are instructed to expedite the execution of warrants. Such
meetings convened by the District Judge and the instructions of the High
Court Judge during his/her occasional visits do yield some results. Still, the
problem substantially remains. The responses of the Police Officers are, by
and large, ad hoc. Whenever there is pressure from the side of the judiciary, a
special squad will be set up to apprehend the accused, but the tempo subsides
after some time. In the State of U.P., it appears that there is a Summons Cell
of Police in every district which is assigned the work of executing the
summons/warrants. But, either the force attached to that Cell is inadequate
or their services are diverted quite often to other jobs. Needless to state that
the execution of warrants needs constant attention and surveillance. The
Police plead genuine difficulties to devote the required attention for this item of
work. It is a well known fact that Police Stations are understaffed and ill-
equipped. Having regard to these problems and keeping in view the inputs
received from the District Judges and other Judicial officers of various States,
the Law Commission is of the view that dedicated Police personnel should
be put in place to attend exclusively to Court-related duties viz ., service of
summons and execution of warrants. The number of personnel required for
each Court may be in the range of 2 to 4. Such police personnel should work
under the supervision of an Inspector of Police (exclusively deployed for this
purpose) and the Inspector should report to the District Judge every month.
They must be imparted training for atleast 4 weeks and should be provided
with necessary infrastructure. SP level officer should monitor the work of this
Police force attending to court-related duties. Such senior Police Officer should 27 be nominated for a region or a group of districts. Posting of such senior Police
Officer shall be in consultation with the Registrar-General of High Court. Alternatively, each police station should have sufficient number of Head
Constables and Constables exclusively deployed for Court-related duties. They
should have sufficient infrastructure such as additional accommodation with a
lock-up cell. The SHO should send monthly or bi-monthly reports to the
concerned courts stating details of progress made. 9.3 There was a suggestion from some quarters that armed reserve Police
who do not have much of work may be drafted for these duties till a regular
cadre is constituted. This can be examined. However, the regular Police shall
not shed their responsibility of extending necessary cooperation to the special
Police personnel. 9.4 Before giving any direction in this regard, it is perhaps necessary that
the State Governments shall be put on notice and their views, if any, are
ascertained. Thereafter, the DGPs should be directed to initiate action in this
behalf without delay. 9.5 There is one more aspect related to the same problem which needs to be
tackled particularly. There are consistent reports that the execution of
warrants against the accused, residing or staying in other States, has become a
formidable problem. For years together, the warrants remain unexecuted and
the out-of-State accused remain absent. The requisitions sent by the CJM or
the Sessions Judge to the Police Officer and/or the CJMs of other States
evoke no response from the police and Judicial officers of other States. In a few
cases, the Police personnel of the State in which the case is pending, are sent
to the other State to trace and arrest the accused. Even then, they can effect
the arrest of the wanted person only with the cooperation of the Police of the
other State. Quite often, even that cooperation will not be forthcoming. The
Law Commission is of the view that the concerned SSP/SP of the other State
should be made responsible for complying with the requisition sent by the
Court in which the case is pending and it shall be made mandatory to send 28 reports on the steps being taken by the Police at least once in a month to the
Court which has issued the warrant. The communication should be sent
electronically or by fax. The Court concerned shall be required to furnish the
fax and e-mail particulars. The District Judges of other States during their
conferences with senior Police Officers, should review the steps taken to
execute NBWs issued by the Courts of Magistrates/Sessions Judges of the
State in which the case is being dealt with. The District Judges should
maintain a record of such requisitions received on the basis of the information
furnished by CJMs/Magistrates. 10. Strengthening Prosecution Machinery
 As already pointed out, the prosecution machinery is in shambles. There
is need to empower the Directorate of Prosecution with independent powers for
effectively supervising the working off PPs/APPs. The recruitment/appointment
process should be transparent and objective based on merit and experience.
Their conditions of service need to be improved considerably. There must be
intensive training and refresher courses and periodical review meetings. It is of
utmost importance that vacancies of PPs/APPs are filled up promptly. There is
every need to create additional posts as well. 11. Increase in the number of courts and filling up of vacancies
 promptly: Many State Governments plead financial difficulties for the creation of so many
courts. The proportion which the present sanctioned strength of judges bears
to the total population is about 15 per one million. The docket ratio per Judge
in the District and Subordinate Judiciary is approximately 1630 cases. This is
based on sanctioned strength. The unfortunate part of it is that at any given
point of time, about 20% of the vacancies of Judl. Officers remain unfilled.
This is on account of lack of proper planning on the part of the High Courts,
coupled with inordinate delays in recruitment process and promotions.
Further, delayed promotions naturally give rise to considerable heartburn
among the members of the service. 11.2 It may be stated that with the setting up of Fast Track Sessions Courts
in most of the States, lot of pendency has been cleared, as far as the Sessions
cases are concerned. The Central Government has stopped funding such
courts from April 2011. However, in many States, FT Sessions courts are
continuing with State funding up to March 2012. While much progress has
been achieved in the disposal of sessions cases, the pendency has increased in
Magistrates courts. This is by reason of quicker promotions earned by Jr. Civil
Magistrates' as a result of setting up of Fast Track Sessions Courts and the
resultant vacancies in that cadre adding to the existing vacancies. The
pendency in some of the courts of First Class Judicial Magistrates and Chief
Judicial Magistrates runs into thousands and it is at an unmanageable level.
Keeping this in view, the 13 th Finance Commission has evolved a scheme for
setting up of a large number of Fast Track Special Magistrates Courts (Evening
courts/shift courts) to deal with the cases involving minor offences and
simpler matters. Summary trial cases, cases under section 125 Cr. P.C., cases
under section 138 of NI Act, traffic offences (other than those under MV Act )
are to be assigned to these Magistrates. The Central Government meets the
expenditure initially. There is a huge financial provision made for Gram
Nyayalayas also. Certain practical difficulties are being experienced in making 30 these courts operational. The dearth of judicial officers and staff is being felt
and in some States like UP, it is reported that the lawyers are not in favour of
Evening/Morning Courts. 11.3 There is an allied problem of inadequate staff strength in the Courts,
inefficient staff and large number of vacancies of essential posts like
stenographers and staff having knowledge of computer operation. Further, the
data posted on the website is not updated promptly. The lack of proper
servicing facilities in the District and moffusil areas is resulting in the
computers remaining in disrepair, un-rectified for months together. Moreover,
the recruitment process followed by the courts needs to be refined so as to
facilitate induction of efficient and competent candidates. 12. Other Issues
12.1 The issues relating to setting up of new courts and filling up of vacancies
is engaging the attention of this Hon'ble Court before a Bench presided over by
Hon'ble Justice D.K. Jain in two matters [W.P. (C) No. 122 of 2008 Janhit
Manch vs. UOI and C.A. No. 1867 of 2006 ( Malik Mazhar Sultan vs. Union Public
Service Commission )]. The subject related to infrastructure for the Courts is
being monitored by another Bench headed by Hon'ble Chief Justice of India in
W.P. No1022 of 1989. Further, in a recent judgment ( Imtiyaz Ahmed Vs. State
of U.P.22 ) of this Hon'ble Court, the Law Commission of India has been
entrusted with the task of ascertaining the number of additional Courts needed
in the country after consulting the concerned Stake-holders. In view of this, there is perhaps is no need for this Hon'ble Bench to go
into the issue relating to inadequate number of courts and infrastructure in
depth. 12.2 The need for dedicated police personnel attached to the criminal
courts for service of summons and warrants has been dealt with in paragraph
9.1, page 26 above. It is necessary that having regard to the magnitude of the
problem and the imminent need to speed up criminal justice, this Hon'ble

22 Supra note 18, at 25 31 Court be pleased to give appropriate directions to the State Governments and
Governments of Union Territories in this regard. 12.3 Separation of investigation from law and order duties: Directions given
in Prakash Singh's case23 have not so far complied with except in a few Police
Stations. The Commission does not propose to discuss this aspect firstly, for
the reason that there is already a direction of the Supreme Court, secondly,
there is already the report of Law Commission (154th report)
recommending such separation, and thirdly, it involves interaction with both
senior and junior level police officials, which is a time consuming process. 13. Other important measures to improve Crl. Justice: These steps have to be taken up in a phased manner after due planning. The detailed suggestions under the above two heads are as under: A. Deployment of technology at the Police Stations a) Recording of FIRs: It is found that many of the acquittals are due to the
delay, ante timing and absence of the necessary details of the incident in the
FIRs. This one single factor can be eliminated by providing for compulsory and
automatic recording of all landlines provided in the Police Stations. There
should also be a provision for automatic relay of the telephone conversation
between the caller and Police Station operator to all the Patrol vehicles of the
police deployed in the area to reduce the response time of police. The patrol
vehicles should also have connectivity with the police net for knowing the
antecedents of the suspects/vehicles/documents etc. on the spot and
instantly. FIRs shall be recorded on the computer and they shall be instantly
sent to the Magistrates' Courts by e-mail. The practice of sending FIR through

23 (2006) 8SCC 1 32 e-mail should be legally recognized. Similarly, section 161 statements should
also be placed on the computer and posted on the website of the concerned
court. b) Police Stations: Modernization: B. Strengthening criminal courts' infrastructure & upgrading facilities
 therein: As regards official witnesses, in order to avoid delays in service, the
summons can be sent through email or if the email ID is not ascertainable, the
summons can be sent to the Head of Office (for instance, District Medical
Officer who has administrative control over the hospitals.)
 All bail orders to be communicated to the Jail through e-mail for delivery
to the undertrial prisoners. 3. Recording of evidence: All criminal courts ought to be provided with Audio
recording through tamper-proof technology for recording of statements of
witnesses so that the appellate courts can also refer to the same for
determining the exact statement made by the witnesses. 4. Machines: All criminal courts ought to be provided with transcription
machines with the help of which the Audio-recorded statements can
automatically be transcribed and supplied to the counsel & witnesses on the
same day. 5. Conferencing: In order to interact with undertrial prisoners and police
officials, video-conferencing facility needs to be provided. So also, video-
conferencing will be very useful for the interaction between High Court and
District Judges. It would save lot of time and resources and help in fulfilling
the formalities without delay. 6. Witness Rooms: All criminal courts ought to be provided with a separate
witness room where witnesses, who have been summoned in different courts,
be provided with the facilities of comfortable seating, drinking water, urinals,
tea/coffee machine & some reading material. It needs to be appreciated that
witnesses are the eyes and ears of the court and the court needs them more for
dispensing justice than they need the court. This will also enable them to be
saved from the harassment they have to face at the hands of the accused as
they also wait in the same corridors. 7. Centralized Registry: All criminal courts located in a single or nearby
complex must have a centralized record room instead of separate record
keeping for each court. The centralized record keeping will ensure that the
relevant part of the file is placed before the concerned court as and when
required. 8. Stenographers: Competent stenographers with good knowledge of computer
operation and maintenance to be attracted to judicial service by offering higher
pay and facilities. Annexure (additions of certain provisions to Cr. P.C.)
 (See page 24)
Amendment to Section 477 Cr.P.C. [e] providing for supervision and monitoring towards expeditious disposal of
cases pending over a long period, or such categories or classes of cases having
regard to their impact on administration of Justice or public interest. [The rules may provide both for administrative and judicial supervision.]
Amendment to Section 483 Cr.P.C: