, on receiving secret information that some notorious

 criminals were assembled at village Rampur with intention to

 commit dacoity, he along with D.S.P., Buxar O.P. Kher (PW-2)

 and with several other police personnel, proceeded to Rampur at

 about 12:30 A.M., and reached at 1:30 A.M. near the village

 Rampur, Nonia Tola. There, in the moonlight, they saw 8 to 10

 persons sitting and talking in nearby sugarcane field. Out of

 them it was heard saying that Durjanwa had gone to watch

 dance, he should be called back otherwise it would be too late

 for committing dacoity. At that point, one person, from the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 3/20 group proceeded towards the dance venue to call him. On seeing

 the police party he asked them who they were, when the police

 party replied that they are police, then someone from who were

 sitting in the sugarcane field opened fire on the police party. The

 police party apprehended five persons while other managed to

 flee. On personal search of apprehended persons, in presence of

 two witnesses, namely, Sheobachan Singh and Bans Ropan

 Singh, who had come from near Tola on hearing of the firing. A

 country made Rifle with loaded one cartridge was recovered

 from Harbansh Bhar @ Sokha, one D.B.B.L. Gun with one

 loaded cartridge from Harbansh Noniya, 16 cartridges from

 Pramod Kumar Chaudhary, three wrist watches from Rambali

 Chaudhary and nothing was recovered from Lal Bahadur

 Chaudhary (Appellant No. 1) on their personal search. The

 seizure list was prepared. The apprehended persons disclosed

 that they were assembled for commission of dacoity and with

 intention to cause death they opened fire on the police party. 5. On the basis of the written application, F.I.R.

 was registered bearing Dhansoin P.S. Case No. 87 of 1987 and

 Sudhir Kumar Verma, Officer In-charge entrusted investigation.

 After investigation, charge-sheet was submitted against the

 accused persons. On 06.02.1988, cognizance of offence was
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 4/20 taken under Sections 399 , 402 , 307 , 414 of the Indian Penal

 Code and Section 25(b) Arms Act and case was committed to

 the Court of Sessions on 23.06.1988. The aforesaid charges

 were framed against accused persons on 18.12.1989 who

 pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 6. Haribansh Bhar, Haribansh Nonia and Rambali

 Chaudhary were declared absconder and their case was

 separated from the appellants herein. 7. Prosecution has examined altogether seven

 witnesses (who are police personnel) in this case. As documentary evidence, only formal F.I.R. was

 exhibited as Exhibit-1. 8. After prosecution evidence, the statement of the

 accused persons were taken u/s 313 Cr.P.C. on 19.11.2005 who

 denied the same and stated that they are innocent and committed
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 5/20 no offence. 9. PW-1, Kameshwar Prasad, Officer-in-charge of

 Indrapuri P.S., PW-2, O.P. Kher was then D.S.P., Buxar and PW-

 4, Grijesh Kumar, Officer-in-charge of Karakat P.S. are police

 personnel who claimed in their deposition before the Trial Court

 that they were members of the raiding party, apprehended the

 accused persons on spot and were eye-witnesses. The informant

 and I.O. in the case as well as the seizure list witnesses have not

 been examined by the prosecution. 10. The learned Trial Court on considering the

 evidence on record given findings that: (iv) The evidence of prosecution fully
 established that accused persons were arrested from the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 6/20 spot and recovery of arms were made from their
 possession and conversation made in between them,
 which was heard by the police party shows that they
 had assembled for committing dacoity and in
 furtherance of that they opened fire on the raiding party
 which did not hit any members of the police party. 11. The learned Trial Court on the basis of

 aforesaid findings came to the conclusion that prosecution is

 able to bring home charges which is levelled against accused

 persons beyond all reasonable doubt, hence the appellants were

 found guilty and sentenced them as stated above. 12. Being aggrieved by the said judgment of

 conviction and sentence, appellants preferred the present appeal. 13. Sh. Ravi Shankar, learned counsel for the

 appellant no.1, Lal Bahadur Chaudhary, submitted that the

 conviction and sentence passed against the appellant no.1 is bad

 in law and facts. There are serious contradictions between the

 evidence of prosecution witnesses. The learned Trial Court

 failed to consider that no any independent witnesses of the case

 has supported the prosecution case. Further, it is submitted that

 in absence of station house entry regarding alleged receiving

 secret information, formation of raiding party and their

 departure from police station creates serious room of doubt of

 the prosecution case. Non-production of articles seized and

 seizure-list prepared with regard to them in the Trial Court and
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 7/20 absence to prove the same by independent seizure list witnesses

 creates serious doubt in prosecution case. Learned counsel for

 appellant no.1 further submitted that informant who is also I.O.

 of the case having personal grudge to show the arrest of fake

 criminals in a fake manner on the basis of local influential men,

 who, having personal grudge against the appellant no.1, has not

 been examined without any plausible reason also creates doubt

 in prosecution case. It is further submitted that none of the

 independent witnesses as well as material witnesses have come

 forward to support the prosecution case and the witnesses who

 are police personnels whose status have been held to be

 interested witnesses. He further submitted that no injury was

 sustained by any one and there is no report on record with

 respect to any firing by any arms/gun by any expert person or

 Forensic test office, and in absence thereof, the prosecution

 failed to prove the case against appellant no.1 either under

 Sections 399, 402 or 307 I.P.C . 14. Learned counsel for the appellant relied on the

 judgment of this Court delivered in Shridhar Koeri v. State of

 Bihar reported in (2000) 3 PLJR 295 to support his argument

 that mere fact that accused-appellant was arrested on spot and

 some articles including firearms were recovered from his
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 8/20 possession would not be sufficient to prove the charge that he

 had assembled for making preparation for commission of

 dacoity. 15. Learned counsel further submitted that

 adverse inference ought to have been drawn against the

 prosecution as admittedly, the persons who were caught on the

 spot were caught without any resistance or struggle from their

 side. On this point, he relied upon the judgment of Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in case of State of U.P. v. Punni & Others reported in AIR 2008 SC 932; (2008) 11 SCC 153. 16. On the other hand, learned A.P.P. for the State

 supported the impugned judgment of conviction and sentence

 and submitted that the prosecution has proved charges against

 the appellant and learned Trial Court has rightly passed the

 impugned judgment of conviction and sentence and are not

 liable to be interfered by this Court in this appeal. It is further

 submitted that some minor discrepancies are bound to occur in

 the evidence of witnesses examined by the prosecution. Further,

 the prosecution witnesses are all official witnesses who are

 reliable witnesses having no material contradictions appearing

 in their evidence. The facts proved by prosecution witnesses

 give rise to a reasonable inference of the fact that the appellant
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 9/20 no.1 and other accused persons had assembled for the purpose

 of committing dacoity and that in preparation for the same, they

 had brought arms with them and the said inference does not

 appear to have been rebutted by the appellant no.1. If the

 appellant no.1 had assembled there for any other purpose, it was

 within his knowledge which he could have explained, but the

 appellant no.1 has not adduced any evidence to show that it was

 his lawful assemblage at that place. The appellant no.1 did not

 show that the object for which he had assembled was not that of

 committing dacoity and therefore, his appeal should be

 dismissed. 17. I have carefully perused the record and

 considered the submissions advanced by the learned counsel for

 the parties. At this stage, I would like to appreciate the relevant

 extract of entire evidence led by the parties before the learned

 Trial Court. (i) PW-1 Kameshwar Prasad is Officer-in-Charge

 of Indrapuri P.S. He deposed that, on instruction of the

 Inspector, on 10.11.1987 he was present at Dhansoin P.S. and

 they alongwith the armed force ASI Mudrika Singh, ASI

 Girjendra Kumar Singh, they went for a raid and reached at

 sugarcane field at about 1.30 AM. There, were 7 to 8 persons
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 10/20 murmuring. The police party had taken position in paddy field

 and heard that one person was saying that "Durjanwa had gone

 to watch the dance and the time for dacoity is passing, therefore

 send someone to bring back Durjan". When one person came

 out, and asked, the Inspector stated that they are police

 personnel. On hearing the same gun fire had been discharged

 from the sugarcane field but no bullet hit anyone. In the

 meantime, many people of the village came there and five

 people from the sugarcane field were apprehended. The

 apprehended people disclosed their name. From Haribansh

 Bhar, a rifle and a cartridges, were seized. From Haribansh

 Nonia one DBBL gun, from barrel, one fired cartridge, and one

 live cartridge were recovered. From Pramod Chaudhary 16

 cartridges of 12 bore were recovered. From Raj Bali Chaudhary,

 3 wristwatch were recovered. A seizure list was prepared. In his

 cross-examination he has stated that he had no knowledge about

 the accused persons and no TIP was conducted. He further

 stated that the police party had encircled the sugarcane field and

 taken position five minutes earlier from the firing. He was

 present at 10-15 yards and from there after some distance the

 DSP was present. After, the villagers arrived, the accused

 persons were apprehended. He further stated that in the process
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 11/20 of apprehending the accused persons, the police party has not

 got any injury. The simple injury was sustained by the accused

 persons. He cannot say who was talking about the dacoity, he

 had no knowledge about to whom the accused had to make

 dacoity. (ii) PW-2 is O.P. Kher who was the S.D.P.O. on

 09.11.1987 and has deposed that he received a secret

 information from the then Inspector Indu Bhushan Prasad that

 some miscreants with the intention to commit some crime are

 meeting near Rampur Nonia Tola and they conducted raid with

 the armed force. They reach Dhansoi P.S. at about 12.30 hour at

 night and after taking Chaukidar and local officer they went to

 Rampur village on foot and at about 01.30 AM they reached at

 sugarcane field and beside the same there was paddy field.

 Some sound was heard from the sugarcane field, thereafter torch

 was flashed and a sound was heard that Durjanwa had gone to

 watch the dance and the time for dacoity is passing, therefore,

 send someone to bring back Durjan. He asked the Inspector

 about their identity who said that they are Police, then the said

 person fled away from the field, they encircled, one gunfire was

 discharged on the police party. On search, five persons were

 apprehended, while 8 to 9 peoples fled. The apprehended
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 12/20 persons disclosed their names. On search, from Haribansh Bhar

 a loaded country made rifle and the cartridges were recovered.

 From Haribansh Nonia, one DBBL gun was recovered and from

 barrel one fired cartridge and one live cartridge were found. One

 accused person who named himself as Pramod Chaudhary from

 whose belt 16 bullets of 12 bore were recovered. From Raj Bali

 Chaudhary 3 HMT watches were found and from Lal Bahadur

 Chaudhary (Appellant No. 1) nothing was recovered. In the

 meantime villagers came there. In the presence of two witnesses

 namely Bansh Ropan Singh and Shiv Bachan Singh Inspector

 had made the seizure list. In his cross-examination he has stated

 that Nonia Tola was situated at about 150-200 yards from the

 place of occurrence near the sugarcane field. In the west side

 there was open field where the dance was organized. He further

 stated that Rampur and Nonia Tola is situated nearby. He had no

 knowledge on which particular place the accused had

 assembled. He has not asked from any person of the Rampur

 Village that where the dance was organized. He has not made

 sanha entry of the secret information. He further stated that after

 arrest of the accused persons, the villagers came there. He

 denied the suggestion that the accused persons were not arrested

 on the spot and nothing was recovered from them and only for
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 13/20 getting the promotion the said case was registered. (iii) PW-3 Raj Bansh Singh has been tendered for

 cross-examination. (iv) PW-4 Girijesh Kumar also supported the

 prosecution case in his deposition. In his cross-examination he

 has stated that a dance program was held at about 150 yard from

 the place of occurrence and 100-200 people were present there.

 He further deposed that some people were arrested from the

 sugarcane field and some arrested from outside. From the

 accused conversation they came to know that they were

 assembled for committing dacoity. He also deposed that the

 sugarcane was of about 4 feet height and the accused persons

 had not thrown their arms at the time of chasing them. He

 denied that they have apprehended the people who were seeing

 the dance. (v) PW-5 Madan Pandey who is an Advocate

 Clerk is a formal witness who exhibited Exhibit 1 (Formal

 F.I.R.) (vi) PW-6 Lalita Singh who is retired Dafadar

 deposed that he does not know about the incident and he has not

 given any statement before the Police. (vii) PW-7 Sheo Narain Singh who is Chaukidar
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 14/20 also deposed that he does not know anything about the case. 18. It is pertinent to note that PW-3 has been

 tendered by the prosecution for cross-examination by the

 defence without his examination-in-chief by the prosecution.

 The procedure of tendering witness has been deprecated by the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sukhwant Singh v. State of Punjab reported in (1995) 3 SCC 367 wherein it was held that after

 amendment in Cr.P.C . tendering of witness for cross-

 examination is not permissible. 19. In this appeal the issue which comes up for

 consideration is "whether on the basis of available materials on

 record the prosecution has proved the charged against the

 appellant no. 1 beyond reasonable doubt or not?" 20. In the present case, the informant Indra

 Bhushan Prasad Singh, Inspector of Police, Buxar (Sadar) on

 whose written report the case has been registered and who had

 received the information on 09.11.1987 with respect to assembly

 of criminal with intention to commit dacoity has not been

 examined by the prosecution without any satisfactory

 explanation. He was the most material witness who proceeded

 to place of occurrence, arrested the accused persons on spot and

 prepared the seizure-list. None examination of the informant is
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 15/20 fatal for the prosecution case. The informant who led the

 foundation on which the prosecution case is based and was the

 architect of the facts of the case has not been examined. This is

 a great laches on the part of the prosecution. 21. It is also relevant to note that I.O. of the case

 has also not been examined. It is well settled that mere non-

 examination of I.O. does not discredit the prosecution version.

 However, the right of bringing on record, the contradictions in

 the statement of witnesses made before I.O. is a very valuable

 right of the accused and by showing that, the witnesses have

 made improvements or have given evidence, which contradicts

 their earlier statement, the accused is able to satisfy the Court

 that the witness is not a reliable witness. The I.O., in the facts

 and circumstances of the case, is a material witness and his non-

 examination has prejudiced Appellant no. 1. 22. The seizure-list witnesses, namely, Bans

 Ropan Singh and Shiv Bachan Singh and other persons were

 assembled at the place of occurrence who were the independent

 witnesses have been withheld from the Trial Court and were not

 examined by the prosecution and the Trial Court would draw

 adverse inference against the prosecution case. The prosecution

 failed to prove the seizure-list which creates doubt in the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 16/20 prosecution case. The seized material objects have not been

 brought before the Trial Court for identification and the

 prosecution failed to prove the recovery from the accused

 persons. 23. It is pertinent to note that Section 399 of the

 Indian Penal Code deals with making preparation to commit

 dacoity and Section 402 of the Indian Penal Code deals with

 assembling for purpose of committing dacoity. The offence

 under Section 402 of the Indian Penal Code is complete as soon

 as five or more persons assemble together for the purpose of

 committing a dacoity. Preparation to commit dacoity may take

 place before or after the dacoits assemble together. Preparation

 consists in devising or arranging the means necessary for the

 commission of an offence. Though, offence falling under Section 399 and 402 of the Indian Penal Code involve almost

 similar ingredients, the difference is that under Section 402 of

 the Indian Penal Code mere assembly without any preparation is

 enough to attract the offence, whereas Section 399 of the Indian

 Penal Code is attracted only if some additional steps are taken in

 the course of preparation. 24. As per the prosecution evidence, the place of

 occurrence was quite close to the place where dance program
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 17/20 was going on. It is difficult to believe that appellant no. 1 with

 other accused persons would have assembled at such a

 conspicuous place with the intention of committing a dacoity

 and would take such a grave risk. The statement of accused

 persons before the police, who were caught hold by the police

 party that they were going to commit a dacoity being clearly

 inadmissible has to be excluded from consideration. The

 possibility that accused persons may have collected for the

 purpose of committing some other offence cannot be safely

 eliminated. It cannot be said that the articles seized from

 possession of the co-accused persons can be utilized only for the

 purpose of committing dacoity and for no other offence. The

 prosecution must have proved from the evidence directly or

 indirectly or from attending circumstances that the accused

 persons had assembled for no other purpose than to make

 preparation for commission of dacoity. 25. Though, merely because independent

 witnesses were not examined, the evidence of the official

 witnesses cannot be discarded. Even if the prosecution has

 successfully established that the appellant along with four other

 persons assembled in a lonely place i.e. sugarcane field in the

 odd hours of night i.e. around 1.30 A.M. on 09.11.1987 and
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 18/20 from possession of co-accused persons arms were seized, in my

 humble view, that by itself cannot be sufficient to hold that the

 appellant no. 1, from whom no arms were recovered, had

 assembled there for the purpose of committing dacoity or was

 making preparation to accomplish that object. It cannot be said

 that the articles seized from the possession of the co-accused

 persons can be utilized only for the purpose of committing

 dacoity and for no other offence. As stated above, neither

 seizure-list was prepared nor seized material objects were

 produced in the Trial Court by the prosecution and seizure-list

 witnesses were also withheld by the prosecution. The aid of Section 106 of the Evidence Act can be taken in criminal trial

 only when the prosecution has led evidence which, if believed,

 will sustain conviction or which makes out a prima facie case.

 Unless this is done, no burden of proving anything would lie on

 the accused. If there is any fallacy in explaining his position on

 the part of the appellant no. 1, that would not absolve the

 prosecution from its primary obligation to make out a prima

 facie case under Sections 399 , 402 and 307 / 34 of the Indian

 Penal Code against the appellant no. 1. 26. The prosecution witnesses deposed that the

 accused persons were positioned at a distance of 20-30 yards.
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 19/20 From such distance, it was difficult for the police party to have

 heard the conversation going on amongst the dacoits. It is

 nobody's case that the dacoits were shouting. After all they had

 to remain silent, conceal themselves and watch the passersby in

 order to commit dacoity. Therefore, they would not have

 shouted, otherwise that will frustrate the very purpose of

 assembly. The result is that this part of the prosecution story is

 not acceptable that conversation going on amongst the dacoits

 could have been audible to police party. This way, the very basis

 of the prosecution story falls. 27. In a criminal trial, the burden lies heavily on

 the prosecution to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. The

 evidence on record falls short of this standard. The prosecution

 case is riddled with material contradictions, procedural

 irregularities, and lack of substantive evidence linking the

 accused directly with the alleged offence. 28. In view of the above, this Court is of the

 considered opinion that the prosecution has failed to bring home

 the charge against the accused. The benefit of doubt must,

 therefore, go with the accused as the prosecution failed to

 establish the guilt of appellant no. 1 by adducing clear, cogent,

 trustworthy and clinching evidence. Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.183 of 2006 dt.27-08-2025 20/20 29. Accordingly, the judgment/order of conviction

 and sentence dated 22.02.2006 passed by the learned Trial Court

 in S.T. No. 315 of 1988 arising out of Dhansoin P.S. Case No.87

 of 1987 against appellant no. 1, Lal Bahadur Choudhary is set

 aside. The accused, Lal Bahadur Choudhary is hereby acquitted

 of the charge. He is on bail and his bail bonds, if any, shall stand

 discharged. 30. The appeal of appellant no. 1 is allowed

 accordingly. 31. Let the Trial Court record be returned to the

 Court concerned. (Sunil Dutta Mishra, J)
rakhi/-