1. The petitioner a Commissioned Officer of Indian Army

promoted to the rank of Lt. Col. was served with a charge sheet

dated 15.5.1997 containing five charges alleging supply of

unhygienic meat to the troops and management by mixing water

in the carcasses. The charge sheet read as under:- However vide order dated 9.3.1999 the GCM reiterated its earlier

stand and again declared the petitioner „Not Guilty‟ of all the

charges. The respondents again decided not to confirm the

report of GCM and issued a notice to the petitioner to show

cause, as to why administrative action to convey appropriate

censure of the GOC in C be not taken against him. The petitioner

sent a reply objecting to the proposed action yet the respondents

awarded him Censure of „Severe Displeasure (recordable)‟ vide WP (C) No.2003/2006 Page 3 of 27 order dated 8.11.99. 3. The petitioner pleads that such a course of action was not

available to the respondents having no sanction of law and was a

time barred action. It is also his case that the aforesaid

punishment came in the way for his promotion to the rank of Lt. Colonel which was delayed considerably. A petition filed by the

petitioner challenging the aforesaid action under Section 164(2) of the Army Act was rejected by the Competent Authority vide

order dated 22.7.2003. Hence the petitioner filed the present

writ petition with the following prayers: Selection Grade as a fresh candidate with
 retrospective original seniority (iii) Pass such other and further exemplary
 orders/directions as may be deemed just and
 proper by this Hon‟ble Court for the
 consequential benefits of the petitioner in the
 circumstances of the case." 4. The show cause notice issued to the petitioner on 6th July,

1999 proposing administrative action reads as under: (d) That you failed to ensure correct maintenance of documents
 by you subordinates in the butchery. (e) That you had been casual in dealing with the units in the
 issuance of meat during your tenure and making such remarks
 as "Nobody could do a thing to us" or words to that effect. 2. In view of the above mentioned lapses on your part, you are
hereby afforded an opportunity to explain your conduct on the said
counts and to explain as to why administrative action by way of
appropriate ensure of GOC-in-C, Central Command not be conveyed to
you. 3. You should submit your reply to show cause notice through
normal staff channel within 30 days of its receipt failing which it
would be assumed that you have no ground to urge against the
proposed action and an ex parte decision will be taken. Sd/XX

 Brig „A‟, for GOC in C" It is submitted that it was not a case covered by the

aforesaid paragraph. 9. It is stated that even though the award of censure does not

debar a person from being considered for promotion, yet it is

taken cognizance of while looking to the officer‟s overall record of

service in assessing his performance. A recordable censure

writes off the officer‟s career by such an order. It is thus pleaded

that on account of the impugned award Selection Board No. 4

was totally prejudiced against the petitioner and delayed his

promotion till 17th December, 2002 though it was due much

earlier. 10. On the other hand, the respondents have opposed the

petition by filing a counter affidavit. It has been stated that the WP(C) No. 2003/2006 Page 8 of 27 petition is completely misconceived, denying that the impugned

order issued by the General Officer Commanding is an order

which can be termed as unprecedented one way or the other. It

has been submitted that every sentence "holding the accused

guilty or not guilty" by a Court Martial is liable to be revised in

accordance with Section 160 of the Army Act. However, when

the proceedings are not confirmed, the competent authority can

proceed under section 19 of the Army Act read with Army Rule

14(2). It is submitted that Section 122 of the Army Act is not

applicable in the present case being a case of administrative

action. It was pointed that the Judgment delivered in the Case of

Radha Krishnan (supra) stands overruled by the Supreme Court in

the case of UOI Vs. Harjeet Singh Sandhu reported in JT 2001 (4)

Sc 597. Besides placing reliance on the Judgment of the Apex

Court in Harjeet Singh Sandhu‟s case (supra), reliance has also

been placed upon the decision given by the Apex Court in the

case of Chief of Army Staff and Ors. Vs. Major Dharam Pal Kukrety as reported in [(1985) 2 SCC 412] and another Judgment

delivered by the Apex Court in Union of India and Ors. Vs.

J.S.Sivia, MLJ 1996 SC 3 where award of censure has been held as

Custom of Service. 11. It may be appropriate to take note of following paragraphs

of the judgment in the case of Major Dharam Pal Kukrety (supra)

as observed after taking note of the provisions of the Army Act in WP (C) No.2003/2006 Page 9 of 27 Chapter IV and rule 14 of the rules framed thereunder ; martial. The finding and sentence which were not
 confirmed by the Chief of Air Staff were
 promulgated after the lapse of about ten months. A
 fresh general court-martial was convened to retry
 the office. On enquiry the officer was informed that WP(C) No. 2003/2006 Page 10 of 27 the findings and sentence of the general court-
 martial had not been confirmed as it was found that
 the proceedings were not in order and, therefore,
 there was no valid order convicting or acquitting the
 officer. After considering the relevant provisions of
 the Air Force Act and the Air Force Rules, 1969,
 which are in part materia with the corresponding
 provisions of the Army Act and the Army Rules, a
 learned Single Judge of the Allahabad High Court
 held that the effect of non-confirmation was that
 though the finding and sentence passed by the
 court-martial existed, they could not be put into
 effect unless they had been confirmed under the
 provisions of the Air Force Act , and that in such a
 case Section 120 of the Air Force Act (which is in
 pari materia with Section 121 of the Army Act)
 barred a second trial by a court-martial. In Major
 Manohar Lal v. The Union of India and Anr. 1971 (1)
 S.L.R. 717 the petitioner was tried by a general
 court-martial which found him not guilty. The
 General Officer Commanding-in-Chief held the
 proceedings to be null and void on the ground that
 one of the members of the court-martial was of the
 rank of Captain and was thus lower in the rank to
 the petitioner and no certificate had been recorded
 by the officer convening the court-martial as
 required by Rule 40(2) of the Army Rules, that an
 officer of the rank of the petitioner was not available
 and he, therefore, ordered a retrial. A learned Single
 Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court held
 that under the Army Act and the Army Rules, a
 Captain was eligible to be made a member of a
 general court-martial and the mere fact that the
 convening officer did not append the certificate that
 an officer of the rank of the petitioner was not
 available did not make the Constitution of the
 general court martial invalid or the finding given by
 it to be without jurisdiction or the proceedings of the
 trial before it to be null and void. He further held
 that as the petitioner had no say in the Constitution
 of the general court-martial and had suffered the
 trial before it, the proceedings could not have been
 declared null and void on a highly technical ground.
 The learned Single Judge, therefore, came to the
 conclusion that the second trial of the petitioner was
 without jurisdiction and the sentence imposed upon
 him in consequence of that trial was wholly illegal. In J.C. 13018 Subedar Surat Singh v. The Chief
 Engineer Projects (Beacon ). Co. 56 A.P.O. A.I.R.
 1970 J. & K. 17. A Division Bench of the Jammu and
 Kashmir High Court held that though every finding
 of a general court-martial, whether of acquittal or of
 guilt, cannot be recorded as valid unless it is WP (C) No.2003/2006 Page 11 of 27 confirmed by the competent authority, the
 Legislature could not have reasonably intended that
 an officer convening a general court martial can go
 on dissolving such court-martials and re
 reconstituting them ad infinitum until he obtained a
 verdict or a finding of his own liking. The Division Bench further held that such a position would not
 only be against public policy and the ancient maxim
 "nemo debet bis vexari pro una et eadem causa" (no
 man ought to be twice vexed for one and the same
 cause) but would also reduce the provisions of the Army Act to a mockery and give an appearance of
 mala fides. According to the Jammu and Kashmir
 High Court, in such a case the proper course for the
 confirming authority would be to refer the case to its
 superior authority for confirmation. 15. This being the position, what then is the course
 open to the Central Government or the Chief of the
 Army Staff when the finding of a court-martial even
 on revision is perverse or against the weight of
 evidence on record? The High Court in its judgment
 under appeal has also held that in such a case a
 fresh trial by another court-martial is not
 permissible. The crucial question, therefore, is
 whether the Central Government or the Chief of the
 Army Staff can have resort to Rule 14 of the Army
 Rules. Though it is open to the Central Government
 of the Chief of the Army Staff to have recourse to
 that Rule in the first instance without directing trial
 by a court-martial of the concerned officer, there is
 no provision in the Army Act or in Rule 14 or any of
 the other rules of the Army Rules which prohibits
 the Central Government or the Chief of the Army
 Staff from resorting in such a case to Rule 14. Can
 it, however, be said that in such a case a trial by a
 court-martial is inexpedient or impracticable? The
 Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, Third Edition,
 defines the word "inexpedient" as meaning "not
 expedient; disadvantageous in the circumstances,
 unadvisable, impolitic". The same dictionary defines
 "expedient" inter alia as meaning "advantageous; fit,
 proper, or suitable to the circumstances o the case".
 Webster's Third New International Dictionary also
 defines the term "expedient" inter alia as meaning
 "characterized by suitability, practicality, and
 efficiency in achieving a particular end: fit, proper,
 or advantageous under the circumstances". 16. In the present case, the Chief of the Army Staff
 had, on the one hand, the finding of a general court-
 martial which had not been confirmed and the Chief
 of the Army Staff was of the opinion that the further
 retention of the Respondent in the service was WP(C) No. 2003/2006 Page 12 of 27 undesirable and, on the other hand, there were the
 above three High Court decisions and the point was
 not concluded by a definitive pronouncement of this
 Court. In such circumstances, to order a fresh trial
 by a court-martial could certainly be said to be both
 inexpedient and impracticable and the only
 expedient and practicable course, therefore, open to
 the Chief of the Army Staff would be to take action
 against the Respondent under Rule 14, which he did.
 The action of the Chief of the Army Staff in issuing
 the impugned notice was, therefore, neither without
 jurisdiction nor unwarranted in law." 12. Some of the paragraphs in case of Harjeet Singh Sandhu (supra) which also throws light on the controversy relevant for

our decision are reproduced hereunder: 13. The Apex Court answered the aforesaid questions in the

following manner: 14 shall be available to be exercised in such
 a case though in an individual case the
 exercise of power may be vitiated as an
 abuse of power. The option to have a
 delinquent officer being tried by court
 martial having been so exercise and finding
 as to guilt and sentence having been WP(C) No. 2003/2006 Page 14 of 27 returned for or against the delinquent
 officer by the court martial for the second
 time, on just and legal trial, ordinarily such
 finding and sentence should be acceptable
 so as to be confirmed. Power to annul the
 proceedings cannot be exercised repeatedly
 on the sole ground that the finding or the
 sentence does not meet the expectation of
 the confirming authority. xxx xxx xxx 41. Having thus explained the law and
 clarified the same by providing resolutions to
 the several illustrative problems posed by the
 learned ASG for the consideration of this Court
 (which are illustrative and not exhaustive), we
 are of the opinion that the expiry of period of
 limitation under Section 122 of the Act does not
 ipso facto take away the exercise of power
 under Section 19 read with Rule 14. The power
 is available to be exercised though in the
 facts and circumstances of an individual
 case, it may be inexpedient to exercise such
 power or the exercise of such power may
 stand vitiated if it is shown to have been
 exercised in a manner which may be called
 colorable exercise of power or an abuse of
 power, what at times is also termed in
 administrative law as fraud on power. The
 misconduct committed a number of years
 before, which was not promptly and within the
 prescribed period of limitation subjected to trial
 by court martial, and also by reference to which
 the power under Section 19 was not promptly
 exercised may cease to be relevant by long
 lapse of time. A subsequent misconduct though
 less serious may aggravate the gravity of an
 earlier misconduct and provide need for
 exercise of power under Section 19 . That would
 all depend on the facts and circumstances of an
 individual case. No hard and fast rule can be laid down in that behalf. A broad proposition
 that power under Section 19 read with Rule 14
 cannot be exercised solely on the ground of
 court martial proceedings having not
 commenced within the period of limitation
 prescribed by Section 122 of the Act, cannot be
 accepted. In the scheme of the Act and the
 purpose sought to be achieved by Section 19 read Rule 14, there is no reason to place a
 narrow construction on the term `impracticable'
 and therefore on availability or happening of
 such events as render trial by court-martial WP (C) No.2003/2006 Page 15 of 27 impermissible or legally impossible or not
 practicable, the situation would be covered by
 the expression-the trial by court-martial having
 become `impracticable'. 42. Exercise of power under Section 19 read
 with Rule 14 is open to judicial review on well
 settled parameters of administrative law
 governing judicial review of administrative
 action such as when the exercise of power is
 shown to have been vitiated by mala fides or is
 found to be based wholly on extraneous and/or
 irrelevant grounds or is found to be a clear case
 of extraneous and/or abuse to power or what is
 sometimes called fraud on power, i.e. where the
 power is exercised for achieving an oblique end.
 The truth or correctness or the adequacy of the
 material available before the authority
 exercising the power cannot be revalued or
 weighed by the court while exercising power of
 judicial review. Even if some of the material, on
 which the action taken is found to be irrelevant,
 the court would still not interfere so long as
 there is some relevant material available on
 which the action can be sustained. The court
 would presume the validity of the exercise
 of power but shall not hesitate to interfere
 if the invalidity or unconstitutionality is
 clearly demonstrated. If two views are
 possible, the court shall not interfere by
 substituting its own satisfaction or opinion
 for the satisfaction or opinion of the
 authority exercising the power. xxx xxx xxx" 14. In the present case one of the point urged by the petitioner

was that Army Act does not speak anything about the Award of

Censure. However this issue is also governed by their policy letter

No.32908/AG/DV-I. The relevant extract of the same is

reproduced hereunder: 15. We have heard the submissions on behalf of both the

parties and have gone through written submissions and have also

examined the original record produced before us regarding the

steps taken by the respondents before awarding the impugned

punishment to the petitioner. 16. At the outset, it may be mentioned that merely because the

proceedings have not been confirmed regarding the findings

returned by the Court Martial does not prevent the authorities to

take administrative action which according to the respondent

has been passed by the Competent Authority after taking into

consideration the reply of the petitioner as also after doing

detailed analysis of the evidence brought before the GCM

including the documents and rule position before sending the

matter to the Competent Authority which awarded the

punishment of Censure of „severe displeasure recordable‟ in the

peculiar facts of the case. 17. At this juncture, it would also be relevant to quote few

paragraphs from the judgment delivered by the Apex Court in

case of Union of India Vs. Brig . J. S. Sivia (supra), where it has

been held: Similarly Regulation 9 which lays down the duties of the
 Commanding Officer, specifically says that the
 Commanding Officer has to discharge his functions
 keeping in view the regulations and the „customs of the
 service‟. From the scheme of the Act, Rules, Regulations
 and the various Army orders issued from time to time, it is WP(C) No. 2003/2006 Page 18 of 27 clearly beyond doubt that the award of censure is a part of
 the custom of the Army and has the binding force. 9. Even otherwise, keeping in view the status,
 responsibility and functions of the Chief of the Army Staff,
 it would be permissible for him under law to issue Army
 Orders from time to time for the maintenance of discipline
 and keeping control of the Army which is under his
 command. A bare reading of Rule 15 shows that it is the
 satisfaction of the Chief of the Army Staff on the basis of
 which an Officer can be declared unfit to be retained in
 the service due to inefficiency. The Chief of the Army
 Staff can lay down criteria by way of Army Orders to guide
 his discretion under Rule 15 of the Rules." 18. We have already taken note of the judgments delivered in

the case of Maj. Dharam Pal Kukrety and Harjeet Singh Sandhu (Supra). We can now sum up the circumstances and the manner

along with the curbs which are there in taking administrative

action upon the respondents, in cases where it is decided not to

confirm the findings of the Court Martial even on the 2 nd occasion

but to take administrative action. They can be as follows: h) Exercise of such power may be vitiated as an

 abuse of power in a given case. Such power

 cannot be exercised only because the findings or

 the sentence does not meet the expectations of

 the Confirming Authority. The power available to

 the Authorities under Section 19 read with Rule

 14 stands vitiated if it is shown to be a colorable

 exercise of power or an abuse of power which at

 times has been described in administrative law as

 fraud of power, or is only an attempt to enforce

 will of superior authorities without justification. i) A misconduct committed number of years ago, for

 which action was not taken promptly within the

 prescribed period of limitation may also be a

 factor to vitiate such proceedings. However that

 would all depend on the facts and circumstances

 of the case and no hard and fast rules can be laid

 down in this behalf. j) Exercise of such power is always subject to

 judicial review in accordance with the well settled

 principles of law governing review of

 Administrative action. As and when it is shown

 that the exercise of power is vitiated by mala fide

 and found to be based upon irrelevant

 consideration, or is found to be a clear case of

 externs or what is sometimes called fraud of

 power it may be set aside. k) Normally the discretions so exercised must be

 presumed to have been rightly exercised and is

 not to be readily interfered with, even if two

 views are possible. l) In terms of policy letter No. 32908/AG/DV-I power

 of awarding of censure is very much available to

 the Chief of Army Staff/GCC in appropriate case

 where it is not practicable or expedient to hold a WP(C) No. 2003/2006 Page 22 of 27 fresh Court Martial; provided the offence alleged

 to have been committed are offences involving

 moral turpitude, fraud or dishonesty and must be

 tried by Court Martial or by a Civil Court. m) Award of Censure has also been described as

 Custom of Service even though such award is not

 part of statute but the award of the same would

 also be guided by the Policy framed in this regard

 and is subject to para 5 and 6 of the same. 19. Taking into consideration the pronouncements of the Apex

Courts, we have no hesitation but to hold that none of the

Judgments cited by the petitioner comes to his rescue. The

Judgment in Radha Krishnan‟s case (supra) is an overruled

Judgment specifically on the point that Section 122 of the Act

bars taking administrative action on the ground of limitation. 20. However the rule position, the policy issued by the Chief of

Army Staff with respect to the award of censure and the law laid

down in the cases of Major Dharam Pal Kukrety, Harjeet Singh

Sandhu and J.S. Sivia (supra) permits the respondents to pass the

impugned order despite findings returned by the court martial

holding the incumbent not guilty of the charges even for the 2nd

time provided such a punishment is justified for the reasons

available on record as an administrative action which is also

described as "custom of service". 21. Thus the only question which needs consideration by us is

as to whether the competent authority had sufficient material

before it to arrive at the satisfaction to award such a punishment

on administrative side in the facts of the present case and that

the case is not a case of exercising fraud in Administrative Action. 22. In this regard we have examined the original records and

found that the decision to recommend awarding administrative

punishment on the petitioner despite his exoneration by the court

martial even after remand is based upon relevant consideration. In the aforesaid case the Deputy Judge Advocate General, after

analyzing the evidence including the additional evidence

recorded by the GCM on remand of the case has made certain

observations which were accepted by the competent authority. These observations explain the process of reasoning in coming to

a conclusion to award punishment to the petitioner on

administrative side. Those conclusions are: The aforesaid conclusions were accepted by the

competent authority while passing the impugned order. 23. On having gone through the original record which contains

the process of reasoning as well as analysis of evidence and

reference to relevant instructions which were not followed and

have been simply ignored by the Court Martial in returning the

findings of Not Guilty, we are of the view that the respondents

were justified in forming the opinion to award the punishment of

censure to the petitioner in respect of the subject matter of the

present writ petition. We are satisfied that in the present case the

reasons which have been gone into in the minds of the concerned

Army authorities are sufficient to have adopted the course of

action in passing the impugned order more so because the Show

Cause Memo has been issued about the administrative lapses

and lack of supervision on the part of the petitioner. The case is

clearly covered by para 6 of the Policy Guidelines for imposition WP(C) No. 2003/2006 Page 26 of 27 of Censure in such cases. Even otherwise the office memorandum

goes to show that the punishment of "severe displeasure

(recordable)" is only a temporary punishment which goes off the

record after a period of three years. The petitioner has already

been promoted to the next rank after the expiry of three years

and thus it has not come in his way for his further promotion. 24. Moreover, the petitioner has approached this Court in the

year 2006 while the award of censure was made in 1999. The

promotion of the petitioner has been effected in the year 2002. Thus, the petition is barred by the principles of delay and laches. 25. Thus, we do not find any infirmity in the approach of the

authorities for exercising our jurisdiction under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India. The writ petition is dismissed with no orders

as to costs. MOOL CHAND GARG,J

 SANJAY KRISHAN KAUL,J
OCTOBER 16, 2008
sv/dc WP (C) No.2003/2006 Page 27 of 27