Heard counsel for the parties. This bail application has been filed by the applicant, who has
been arrested on 06.02.2015 and is in Jail in connection with Crime
No.390/2011 registered with Police Station Gopalganj, District
Sagar - commonly known as VYAPAM Examination Scam cases -
for the offence punishable under Sections 417 , 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 472 , 474 and 120-B of IPC and also under Section 3(Gha) 1 , 2 / 4 of the M.P. Manyata Prapt Pariksha Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicant by the prosecution is that
with the help of Impersonator, the applicant committed unfair
means during the examination conducted by VYAPAM. The
applicant has been arrested on 06.02.2015 and is in jail since then.
Charge-sheet has been filed on 11.03.2015 against the applicant.
The Investigating Officer has not been able to track the link with
whom the applicant had interacted, either to arrange for
impersonator or the impersonator himself. In that sense, the
investigation of the crime is still not complete and may require
further investigation. At the same time, we find that from the
investigation done so far that the photograph of the applicant has
been found to be matching with the photograph on the OMR sheet.
Unless, the Investigating Agency is in a position to bring on record 2 the fact that some other candidate had infact appeared in the
examination in place of the applicant, it is not possible to presume
to the contrary. Further, the hand-writing of the applicant has been
analyzed by the expert. In the first round it was found that hand-
writing was mismatching while the second opinion of the hand
writing expert obtained by the Investigating Officer suggests that
the hand-writing was partly matching and partly mismatching.
Thus, from the material produced along with the charge-sheet
already filed, it is difficult to comprehend as to how the applicant
can be kept in custody indefinitely merely on some suspicion and
the linked person is still not tracked. Learned counsel for the State on instructions of Investigating
Officer (Inspector Manju Singh), in all fairness, submits that the
custodial interrogation of the applicant may not be necessary. Since
charge-sheet has already been filed and for the nature of evidence
that has come on record so far, in the interest of justice we deem it
appropriate to grant bail to the applicant in view of the assurance
given by the applicant through counsel that he will extend full
cooperation for further investigation including against himself and
punctually appear before the Trial Court to ensure early conclusion
of the criminal trial. In the interest of justice, taking overall view of the matter, we
deem it appropriate to grant bail to the applicant on following strict
conditions:- The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.