% 10.04.2020 1. The hearing has been conducted through Video Conferencing. 2. By this application the petitioner seeks regular bail in case FIR No.57/2020
registered at Police Station Dayal Pur for offences punishable under Section
147 / 148 / 149 / 427 IPC and Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public
Property Act, 1984 (PDPP Act ). 3. The case of the petitioner is that the petitioner has not been arrested in any
other FIR and is not involved in any other offence. As per the status report now
filed, the witness who gave the source information also signed the arrest memo.
However, till date, copy of the Arrest Memo has not been supplied to the petitioner
or his family members. As a matter of fact, on 28th February, 2020, an BAIL APPLICATION NO. 755/2020 Page 1 of 7 application was filed on behalf of co-accused Mohd.Raees and Nadeem alleging
that several persons including Mohd.Rahis and Mohd. Nadeem were in illegal
detention since 24th February, 2020 and they cannot be illegally detained like this
and they be released. The learned Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate called
a report on the said application for 29th February, 2020. Once the said application
was received, petitioner alongwith other nine persons were shown to be arrested on
28th February, 2020 in early morning and were produced for judicial remand
before the learned Duty Magistrate on 28th February, 2020 itself. No police
remand was sought before the Duty Magistrate, hence the accused were remanded
to Judicial Custody. As the accused alleged illegal confinement since 24th
February, 2020, the learned Duty Magistrate while granting judicial custody
directed the Jail authorities to conduct their medical examination. Though the
MLC got prepared by the police of the petitioner on 28th February, 2020 stated no
fresh injury and that there were old injuries over the back, the medical
examination of the petitioner conducted at the jail revealed bruise marks on the
back, buttock and thighs. No video footage of nearby places have been collected by
the police till date. There has been no recovery from the personal search of the
petitioner and thus there is no physical evidence of the involvement of the
petitioner in the alleged offence. However, there is no evidence till date that the
petitioner participated in the offences alleged.. The petitioner works with a
pharmaceutical shop where one Naved was also working and both of them were
arrested together on the evening of 24th February, 2020 from the shop. The video
footage of the shop shows police coming to the shop on the 24th February, 2020. A
PCR call in this regard was made by the father of Naved on 25th February, 2020.
When the first remand application was filed, Section 436 IPC was added. There is
no evidence till date that the petitioner is involved in the offence of Section 436 BAIL APPLICATION NO. 755/2020 Page 2 of 7 IPC which has been added lateron. Thus, there is no evidence as yet against the
petitioner showing his involvement for any offence punishable with more than
seven years of imprisonment and hence the petitioner is not only entitled to the
benefit of bail as per the decision of the Supreme Court in Arnesh Kumar vs. State
of Bihar , (2014) 8 SCC 273, but also in view of the decision of the High Power
Committee of this Court. In any case, by the subsequent meeting, the Committee
has relaxed and directed release of the prisoners who are alleged to be involved in
offences punishable upto ten years imprisonment. Though the petitioner is not
seeking any benefit from the decision of the High Power Committee, however,
seeks exercise of judicial discretion in view of the evidence collected by the
investigating agency till date. The petitioner also does not claim benefit due to the
prevailing lockdown situation as the bail application of the petitioner was filed
even prior to the lockdown being directed however, since there is lockdown, the
petitioner cannot go anywhere or tamper with any evidence. Further, Section 3 of
the PDPP Act has been wrongly invoked for the reason even as per the FIR and
the recoveries made, the Scooty, motorbikes, TSR and the Maruti Alto car
allegedly burnt were not "public property" in terms of Section 2(b) of the PDPP
Act as the same do not belong to the Government or any other authority controlled
by the Government. Reliance is placed on the decision in case of Munir Babu vs.
State of Kerala . It is further contended that Section 436 IPC is also not applicable
as no dwelling house has been burnt. In any case, there is no witness or no CCTV
footage showing that the petitioner was the one who set on fire the vehicles or the
shops. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner states that immediately after FIR
No.57/2020 was registered wherein the petitioner is allegedly involved, FIR
No.58/2020 was registered at Police Station Dayal Pur where ten persons were BAIL APPLICATION NO. 755/2020 Page 3 of 7 arrested and all those persons have been granted bail. The impugned order passed
by the learned Sessions Judge is erroneous for the reason it notes that the petitioner
was arrested at the spot, whereas even the case of the prosecution is not that the
petitioner was not arrested at the spot on the intervening night of 23rd - 24th
February, 2020. 5. Ld.APP for the State, on instruction from SHO, P.S.Dayal Pur, who is also
available alongwith the file through video conferencing, states that during the
course of investigation statements of two shop owners in the area have also been
recorded as per which 4-5 shops were vandalized and later burnt. Statement of
Mohd. Mumtaj of Sanjar Hotel Chicken has been recorded who stated that at 8.00
p.m. on 23rd February, 2020 his shop was first vandalized and thereafter torched.
The eye witness has signed the arrest memo indicating his identification and the
petitioner being involved in the offences. Father of the petitioner was
telephonically informed of the arrest of petitioner by ASI Hukum Singh. Even if
the motorcycles/car do not fall in a dwelling unit, by burning shops in the area, the
petitioner and co-accused have been found to be involved in offence under Section
436 IPC which is punishable upto ten years of imprisonment. The spot referred to
by the learned ASJ in the impugned order means the spot where the petitioner and
other co-accused persons were planning to commit further offence on 28th
February, 2020. It is submitted that since the investigation is still going on, no bail
be granted to the petitioner at this stage. 6. Heard learned counsel for the parties. 7. The above noted FIR was registered on 24th February,2020 after large scale
riots took place in the area of Police Station Dayal Pur. This particular FIR relates
to the incident which took place on the intervening night of 23rd -24th February,
2020 at Sherpur Chowk wherein the allegations are as under:- 8. As per the prosecution case, the petitioner along with eight other accused
were arrested when a source information was received that people who did rioting
on the intervening night of 23rd-24th February, 2020 were present at Sherpur
Chowk, Karawal Nagar Road and were planning to execute another riot. At the
instance of the said eye witness, the petitioner and other eight other persons were
arrested on 28th February, 2020 and are since then in custody. No police custody
was sought and on being produced before the Duty Magistrate on the same day,
they were sent to judicial custody. 9. The above noted FIR is one of the FIRs registered in the aftermath of riots
which took place in the area of Police Station Dayal Pur from the intervening night
of 22nd - 24th February, 2020. This FIR was registered after a PCR call was
received and the Head Constable on reaching the spot found the vehicles, as noted
above, have been put on fire. As per the prosecution statement of two eye
witnesses were recorded one of whom signed the arrest memo. Statement of only
one witness who had also signed the arrest memo has been produced before this
Court. The statement of eye witness was recorded only on 28th February, 2020
which is an omnibus statement and does not identify any accused. There is
undoubtedly a mystery surrounding the arrest of the petitioner and co-accused
which is further fortified by the nature of injuries received by the petitioner as
would be investigated in the course of events. It is also strange that even as per
the prosecution, the petitioner and co-accused were arrested on the 28th February,
2020 and produced before the Magistrate on the same day and no police custody
remand was sought, nor was an application filed for conducting TIP by the other
witness who was not present at the time of arrest. Statement of this witness BAIL APPLICATION NO. 755/2020 Page 6 of 7 recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. has also not been produced. The petitioner has
also pressed into service the CCTV footage of 24th February, 2020 when the
petitioner claims to have been arrested alongwith one Naved by the police and kept
in illegal confinement and only when the application was filed by the co-accused
persons alleging illegal detention since 24th February, 2020 the arrest of the
petitioner have been shown in the present FIR. In the statement of Mohd. Mumtaz
of Sanjar Halal Chicken Shop, whose shop had been burnt, the petitioner and co-
accused have not been named. Statement of the eye witness is also vague. No
doubt, as stated by the learned counsel for the petitioner, no offence under Section
3 of the PDPP Act is made out for the reason all the properties which have been
alleged to be torched or rioted were not the government property, however, as
regards Section 436 IPC is concerned, the investigation is at crucial stage as the
SHO states that the video footages have been preserved and are yet to be
examined. Since the investigation is going on and the persons who were present at
the spot are required to be ascertained by scientific evidence and even if found that
the petitioner is part of the unlawful assembly even though he may not have
individually torched any vehicle or the shops he would be liable for the offences, at
this stage this Court finds no ground to grant bail to the petitioner. 10. Application is dismissed. 11. It is however clarified that any observations made hereinabove may not be
read as final expression of opinion during the trial. MUKTA GUPTA, J. APRIL 10, 2020
skb BAIL APPLICATION NO. 755/2020 Page 7 of 7