The petitioner in writ petition No.66630/2012 and

writ petition No.66631/2012, are the same petitioners

and by invoking articles 226 and 227 of the

Constitution of India r/w Section 482 of Cr.P.C. In writ

petition No.66630/2012 sought for a writ in the nature

of certiorari quashing the charge sheet dated

29.12.2010 filed by the respondent No.1-CBI vide

Annexure-B in CBI C.C.No.5/2011 and now numbered

as Spl. CBI C.C.No.76/2012 on the file of the XLVIII

Addl. City Civil & Sessions Judge, Bengaluru and also

sought a writ in the nature of prohibition and also to

quash the entire proceedings in the above said

proceedings and pass such other relief/s as this Court

deems fit in the facts and circumstances of the case. In

writ petition No.66631/2012 prayed this Court to issue

writ in the nature of certiorari quashing the charge

sheet dated 10.05.2011 filed by the respondent No.1-

CBI vide Annexure-B, in CBI C.C.No.1/2011 now 5 numbered as Spl. CBI No.81/2012 on the file of the

XLVIII Addl. City Civil & Sessions Judge, Bengaluru and

also sought a writ in the nature of prohibition and also

to quash the entire proceedings in the above said

proceedings and pass such other relief/s as this Court

deems fit in the facts and circumstances of the case. 2. The petitioner writ petition No.66630/2012

in the petition has contended that the petitioner has

approached the respondent No.2 on 17.05.2006 that the

petitioner No.1 is prepared to pledge the sugar stock in

independent and successive godown in favour of

respondent No.2 for the working capital for the sanction

of loan and in pursuance of the said request on

12.06.2006 the Sr.Manager, Belagavi of respondent

No.2 recommends the KCC limit of Rs. 1,20,25,500 Kg

of sugar and subsequently issued the sanction

memorandum on 21.07.2006 subject to the EMT of land

and buildings and hypothecation of all moveable both 6 present and future as first charge basis with the BDCC

bank and accordingly on 16.08.2006 Sri R.V.

Madhususan and Ashok R Patil, have executed the

security documents such as demand promissory under

letter of undertaking regarding loans/advance,

agreement regarding collateral security hypothecated

plant and machinery of the sugar and consequently the

respondent No.2 bank released the amount of Rs.700

crores on 17.08.2006 and on again on 27.07.2006 the

Managing Director of the petitioner makes a

representation to respondent No.2 for a sanction of

adhoc KCC limits of Rs.2.50 crores for a period of two

months for the purpose of making sugar cane bills.

That on 31.10.2007, the Managing Director of the

petitioner executes loan documents for availing the

adhoc KCC limit of Rs.2.50 crores and also letter of

pledge regarding cash credit towards pledging

Rs.2626,500 Kgs of sugar and the petitioners have

failed to repay the amount and when the respondent 7 No.2 comes to know about that the petitioners have

hatched a conspiracy with other accused and also with

the officers of the respondent No.2 bank and come to

know that they made a false representation that the

plant and machinery of the petitioner is not

hypothecated to any bank, as a matter of fact same was

hypothecated to BDCC Bank, Belagavi and there was a

shortage of sugar that was pledged to respondent No.2

bank and the officers of the petitioner have removed and

sold the pledged sugar stock from the godown without

obtaining the consent of the bank and the second

respondent bank has lodged a complaint with the first

respondent that the petitioners have played fraud on

the bank and as a result, the bank has suffered the loss

of Rs.10.37 crores. Based on the complaint a case has

been registered in FIR and investigation has been

completed and filed the charge sheet. Hence, the

petitioner has approached this Court contending that

they have no other effective and efficacious remedy and 8 invoked the writ jurisdiction praying this Court to

quash the proceedings initiated against the petitioner

and others. 3. In writ petition No.66631/2012, the

petitioner contended that on 10.02.2007 the petitioner

No.1 given a request letter to respondent No.2 for a cash

credit (pledge loan of Rs.10 crores) and respondent No.2

bank processed and recommended the proposal to the

Regional Office on 22.10.2007 and Regional Office in

turn recommended and submitted the proposal to the

General Office Chennai for sanction of Rs.20.00 crores

and Office of the General Manager, UBI Chennai, writes

to the AGM, Belagavi so as to why the security of

hypothecation of plant and machinery is not stipulated

on 11.03.2007 and in turn the accused No.2 in the

complaint writes to the AGM, Belagavi on 12.03.2007,

the plant and machinery of the petitioner factory has

not been hypothecated to the Canara bank or to any 9 other bank and in pursuance of the said letter on

22.03.2007, the office of the General Manager, UBI

Chennai, sanctioned the loan i.e. cash credit (pledge

loan limit of Rs.10 Crores), when the respondent No.2

comes to know about the prior charge has been created

in favour of the Canara bank and a fraud has been

committed by the petitioners and other accused

persons. The respondent No.2 has filed a complaint with

respondent No.1-CBI that the petitioners herein and

other accused have committed the fraud on the

respondent No.2 bank and made the accusation in the

complaint that accused No.2 has made a false

representation that the plant and machineries of the

petitioner No.1 is hypothecated to any bank, as a matter

of fact the same was hypothecated to BDCC Bank,

Belagavi and to Canara Bank. Further, it is alleged that

accused Nos.2 to 7 have hatched a conspiracy with

accused No.1 and because of which the accused No.1

has recommended the proposal of petitioner No.1 herein 10 without obtaining the prior permission of the Joint

Registrar Co-operative Societies to avail the loan as

regard under the Bye-laws of petitioner No.1 society

without obtaining the credit report of petitioner No.1

herein from the BDCC Bank, Belagavi and Canara Bank

and also did not ensure the quality of the sugar and

further accusation is that accused No.1 at the instance

of other accused has not got the hypothecation

registered with the appropriate authority and has not

submitted the compliance report of the sanction

stipulated. Further alleged that accused Nos.2 to 7

removed and sold the pledged sugar stock from the

godown without obtaining the consent of the bank and

thereby they have pledged a fraud on the bank and for

the said reason the bank suffered the loss of Rs.10.72

Crores and respondent No.2. 4. The petitioner in the writ petition contended

that the respondent No.2 without the necessary 11 concurrence and sanction of the Karnataka Government

as required under the provisions of Delhi Special Police

Establishment Act, 1946 and without there being any

justifications have launched the criminal prosecution

against the petitioner and respondent No.1 and also

filed the charge sheet against the petitioner and other

accused persons and hence invoked the writ jurisdiction

and filed the present petitions. 5. In both the writ petitions, it is contended

that the respondent herein in the complaint before the

Hon'ble Court do not bring surface of the record any

substratum to infer presence of dishonest intention of

the petitioners herein or any act of the petitioners which

is illegal or offensive and prima facie the allegations

made by the respondent herein are mere bald

allegations and assertions and as such, the complaint

deserves to be rejected in limine. The other contentions

that respondent No.1 has not even obtained the 12 sanction to prosecute the petitioners from the

appropriate authority i.e. from Registrar of Co-operative

Societies, and thus, the sanction, which is a sine qua

non, for initiating the prosecution, not having been

obtained, the filing of the charge sheet is preposterous,

and hence the charge sheet deserves to be quashed in

limine. 6. The counsel for petitioner also enclosed the

documents for having approached the concerned bank

and there after sanction letters are issued and pledging

of the stock and sugar and contended that the

allegation of petitioners have played fraud is not

sustainable and alleged removal of pledged and

hypothecated goods and non payment of the loan, at the

best is a breach of contract simpliciter, and will not

qualify to be called as an offence and the offences which

are invoked against the petitioners does not attract the

ingredients of the offences invoked against the 13 petitioners. It is further contended that it is well settled

law that it is only a breach of civil law and not a

criminal offence and hence the same is liable to be

quashed and further contended that even the offence

under Sections 120B r/w 13(2) and 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 is also not

sustainable and there is absolutely no evidence to

continue the proceedings. Hence, the very initiation of

the criminal case against the petitioners liable to be

quashed. 7. The respondent-CBI has filed its detailed

objections in writ petition No.66630/2012 and

contended that the writ petition is filed in belated state

of proceedings and petitioner tried for his discharge

before the trial Court and when the petitioner did not

succeed, the petitioner preferred this petition before this

Court. It is contended that based on the complaint of

respondent No.2, a case has been registered and 14 investigation has been conducted and during the course

of investigation found that the petitioners and other

accused persons have committed the fraud against the

respondent No.2 and the investigation reveals about the

availing of loan from respondent No.2 and with the

dishonest intention removed the stock which has been

pledged without the consent of the bank and all the

accused persons were involved in committing the fraud

and in detail filed the objections, the role of each of the

accused persons in committing the fraud. Further, it is

specifically contended that investigation revealed that

officials and office bearers of petitioner's society had

fraudulently removed the available sugar stock from the

godown No.B1B2, contending the pledged sugar stock

under the lock and key of Canara Bank by using the

duplicate keys, during October 2008. Investigation

revealed that sugar stock of 3,78,000/- Kg was removed

from godown No.B1B2 and sold during October 2008,

without the knowledge or consent of Canara Bank and 15 further investigation reveals that books of accounts of

M/s GSSKN, Gokak were manipulated/falsified to show

credit sale of sugar, though sales were made against

advance payment/direct payment. The proceeds of sale

sugar stock were not credited to the loan account held

at Canara Bank and defaulted in making payment and

thus caused a wrongful loss of Rs.10,72,24,382/- as on

26.01.2011 to the bank and denied the other allegations

made in respective paragraphs of the writ petitions and

further contended that evidence cited in the charge

sheet will clearly establish the offence alleged against

the petitioners and other accused. Hence, this Court

cannot invoke the writ jurisdiction to quash the

proceedings and the offences alleged against the

petitioners and other accused are well founded and the

same would be established by the evidence cited in the

charge sheet and prayed this Court to dismiss the

petition. 8. In writ petition No.66631/2012 also the

respondent No.1-CBI has filed the detailed objections

and in the objections also reiterated the objections filed

in writ petition No.66630/2012 with regard to the

attempt is made to get an order of discharge and when

they did not succeed, filed the present petition. The

respondent in detail filed the objection contending that

the investigation has revealed that the petitioner though

hypothecated plant and machinery and sugar stock in

favour of the Canara Bank and suppressing the fact of

hypothecation made to the Canara Bank indulged in

creating the false documents stating that no

hypothecation is made to other Canara Bank or any

other bank and availed the loan from respondent No.2

and the petitioners have played fraud on the second

respondent and by playing fraud in 2008 have availed

the loan representing that no hypothecation is made in

favour of any of the bank and removed the stock and

sold the stock during October 2008 without the 17 knowledge or consent of the Union Bank of India. The

proceeds of sales sugar stocks were not credited to the

loan account held at Union Bank of India. The books of

accounts are also manipulated/falsified to show credit

sale of sugar in the name of non existent entities. The

respondent also denied the averments made in the writ

petition in detail parawise and contended that the

evidence both oral and documentary cited in the charge

sheet will clearly establish the offence alleged against

the petitioners. The averments of the petitioners that

complaint is unsustainable and initiation of criminal

prosecution by the CBI and pending before the Special

Court is without the authority of law etc., are absolutely

false and without appreciating the facts. At the outset it

is contended that the petitioners had made false

representation to Union Bank of India thereby induced

the bank to part with the funds. Further, the stock

pledged to the bank and kept under the lock and key of

the bank was fraudulently opened forged keys and 18 removed the available stock and did not pay the sale

proceeds to the bank. Hence, this Court cannot invoke

482 of Cr.P.C . to quash the charge sheet filed against

the petitioners and other accused and hence the very

petition filed by the petitioner are liable to be dismissed. 9. Learned counsel appearing in both the cases

contended that after the registration of the crime,

investigation and filing the charge sheet, the petitioners

have approached the respondent No.2 bank in

WP.No.66630/2012 for one time settlement and matter

has been settled between the parties and respondent

No.2. In support of the contention of the petitioners,

petitioners also produced the letter of the second

respondent bank dated 26.03.2013 confirming that the

bank has received the payments from the petitioner in

terms of one time settlement (OTS) amount of

Rs.13,50,00,000/- and interest of Rs.3,05,890 and legal

fees of Rs.4,99,000/- and further confirming that the 19 two loan accounts stand closed under one time

settlement. 10. The learned counsel also produced the copy

of the settlement letter along with memo with the

second respondent and second respondent-Union Bank

of India issued the settlement certificate dated

30.12.2011, that they have received an amount of

Rs.11,20,00,000/- as full and final settlement against

the total due of Rs.17,19,11,526/- and relieved the

persons who are the parties to compromise settlement

and security created by them from the liabilities in the

above account i.e. petitioner herein. The counsel

appearing for the petitioner by producing these two

payments of settlement entered into between the

respondent bank of Canara Bank as well as Uninon

Bank of India, contends that the matter has been

settled between the parties and there is no any objection

on the part of the respective bank who have been 20 arrived as second respondent in the case and they have

also not filed any objections and contends that, in view

of the settlement entered between the parties the

proceedings has to be quashed and no purpose would

be served in continuing the proceedings. In support of

his contention he relied upon the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Gian Singh Vs

State of Punjab and Another reported in 2013 (1)

SCC (Cri)160, and brought to my notice the relevant

paragraph of the Apex Court i.e. paragraph No.52, 53,

57, 58, wherein the Apex Court in paragraph No.58 held

that; 11. In other words, the High Court must

consider whether it would be unfair or contrary to the

interest of justice to continue with the criminal

proceeding or continuation of the criminal proceeding

would tantamount to abuse of process of law despite

settlement and compromise between the victim and the

wrongdoer and whether to secure the ends of justice, it

is appropriate that the criminal case is put to an end

and if the answer to the above question(s) is in the 23 affirmative, the High Court shall be well within its

jurisdiction to quash the criminal proceeding. 12. The counsel for the petitioners also relied

upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the

case of Infrastructure Leasing and Financial

Services Limited Vs B.P.L. Limited reported in

2015(3) SCC 363, with regard to the breach of civil law

and criminal law and also discussed with regard to the

difference between the hypothecation and pledging and

contends that the very pledge or hypothecation is only

in order to secure the loan and creating the charge and

the very object of whether the same has been achieved

has to be kept in mind and contended that in this case

though there was an allegation of breach of civil law, the

petitioners have paid the amount in favour of the bank. The counsel also relied upon the judgment of Hon'ble

Apex Court in the case of Anita Maria Das and

Another Vs State of Maharashtra and Another 24 reported in (2018) 3 SCC 290, by relying this judgment

the counsel contends that Sections 482 and 320 crimes

have been laid down in this judgment with regard to the

quashing of criminal procedures and also exercising

powers by High Court and quashing of proceedings

based on the compromise/settlement between the

parties. The counsel brought to my notice that in the

said judgment also offences are with regard to Sections

406 , 420 , 467 , 471 and 35 of IPC, insofar as to the

offences similarly in the case on hand and brought to

my notice paragraph No.7, whether it is held that High

Court should have exercised its discretion in quashing

the proceedings referring the judgment of Parbatbhai

Aahir Vs State of Gujarat and Gian Singh Vs State of

Punjab and also brought to my notice the discussion

made in the judgment that while exercising its powers,

the High Court is to examine as to whether the

possibility of conviction is remote or bleak and

continuation of criminal cases would put the accused to 25 great oppression and prejudice and extreme injustice

would be caused to him by not quashing the criminal

cases and further held that while deciding whether to

exercise its power under Section 482 of the Code or not,

timings of settlement play a crucial role. Those cases

where the settlement is arrived at immediately after the

alleged commission of offence and the matter is still

under investigation, the High Court may be liberal in

accepting the settlement to quash the criminal

proceedings/investigation. It is because of the reason

that at this stage the investigation is still on and even

the charge sheet has not been filed. Likewise, those

cases where the charge is framed but the evidence is yet

to start or the evidence is still at infancy stage, the High

Court can show benevolence in exercising its powers

favourably, but after prima facie assessment of the

circumstances/material mentioned above. Further, it is

observed that the High Court should refrain from

exercising its power under Section 482 of the Code, as 26 in such cases the trial Court would be in a position to

decide the case finally on merits and to come to a

conclusion when the evidence is almost complete and

after the conclusion of the evidence the matter is at the

stage of arguments. 13. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for the

respondent No.1-CBI in his arguments he vehemently

contended that the Hon'ble Apex Court in the judgment

of State of Maharashtra Vs Vikram Anantrai Doshi ,

reported in 2015(2) Crimes 237 (SC), where in it is held

that availing of money from nationalized bank in

manner, as alleged by investigating agency, vividly

exposit fiscal impurity and, in way, financial fraud, it is

social wrong and it had immense societal impact and

was not legally permissible as said quashment neither

helped to secure ends of justice nor did it prevent abuse

of process of Court. The counsel also relied upon this

judgment vehemently contended that the offence is 27 against the society and not against the individual and

brought to my notice the paragraph No.23 of the said

judgment contending that it is a financial fraud and the

modus operandi as narrated in the charge sheet cannot

be put in the compartment of an individual or personal

wrong. Hence, there cannot be any quashment of the

charge sheet. 14. The counsel for respondent No.1 in his

argument he also relied upon the judgment of the

Hon'ble Apex Court reported in (2016) 1 SCC 376 in

the case of State of Tamil Nadu Vs. R.Vasanthi

Stanley and Another and in this judgment the Hon'ble

Apex Court with regard to Section 482 of Cr.P.C.

quashing of criminal proceedings involving abuse of

financial system held that the factors to be considered

and further held that plea of quashing neither be

considered nor accepted in economic offences and

further observed with regard to load on criminal justice 28 system, it has an insegregable nexus with speedy trial, a

grave criminal offence or serious economic offence or for

that matter offence that has potentiality to create a dent

in financial health of institutions, is not be quashed on

ground that there is delay in trial or principle that when

the matter has been settled, it should be quashed to

avoid load on the system. That can never be an

acceptable principle or parameter, for that would

amount to destroying the stem cells of law and order in

many a realm and further strengthen the marrows of

unscrupulous litigations. In this judgment the Hon'ble

Apex Court comes to the conclusion that a grave

criminal offence or serious economic offence or for that

matter the offence that has the potentiality to create a

dent in the financial health of the institutions, is not to

be quashed on the ground that there is delay in trial or

the principle that when the matter has been settled it

should be quashed to avoid the load on the system.

That can never be an acceptable principle or parameter, 29 for that would amount to destroying the stem cells of

law and order. The counsel by relying upon this

judgment contends that the present case on hand also

is nothing but a fraudulent act which affects the

financial system and causes loss to the public

institutions and there cannot be any quashing of the

proceedings. 15. The counsel also relied upon the judgment of

the Hon'ble Apex Court reported in AIR 2017 SC 4843

in the case of Parbatbhai Aahir and Others Vs. State

of Gujarat and Others and contend that the quashing

of First Information Report for the offences punishable

under Sections 384 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B and 506(2) of

IPC the High Court rightly dismissed the application

and further held in this judgment that the High Court

was justified in declining to entertain the application for

quashing the First Information Report in the exercise of

its inherent jurisdiction. The High Court has adverted to 30 two significant circumstances while rejecting the

petition and observed that in a case involving extortion,

forgery and conspiracy where all the appellants were

acting as a team, it was not in the interest of society to

quash the FIR on the ground that a settlement had been

arrived at with the complainants. Such offences could

not be construed to be merely private or civil disputes

but implicate the societal interest in prosecuting serious

crime. By relying upon this judgment, the counsel

contends that it affects the society at large and not an

individual and it is specifically mentioned in the

judgment that if it involves extortion, forgery and

conspiracy where all the appellants were acting as a

team, it was not in the interest of the society to quash

the proceedings and hence there cannot be any

quashing of the proceedings. 16. Having heard the petitioner's counsel as well

as the counsel appearing for respondent No.1 and 31 though respondent No.2 in W.P.66631/2012

represented through counsel, did not choose to address

the argument and also not filed any objections and

having considered the contention of the petitioner and

also the respondent No.1, this Court has to examine

whether this Court can invoke Section 482 of Cr.P.C. to

quash the proceedings as sought. 17. Having considered the contentions of the

petitioner and also the respondent No.1 and having

considered the factual aspects of both the cases, the

complaints are registered at the instance of the Canara

Bank, who is respondent No.2 in the first petition and

allegation is that though hypothecation is made in

favour of the Bank, the petitioner has sold the same by

removing the stock and in the second petition it is the

case of the respondent No.2 that in spite of the

hypothecation is made in favour of the Canara Bank

and the same has been suppressed by the petitioner 32 and falsely represented that there was no any

hypothecation in favour of any of the bank and

approached respondent No.2 and availed the loan and

also removed the stock and created fraud on both the

Banks. Based on the complaint, respondent No.1-CBI

conducted investigation and found the material and

filed the charge sheet. 18. It has to be noted that, at the time of filing

both these petitions, only there was a settlement in

favour of respondent No.2-Union Bank of India in

respect of W.P.No.66631/2012 and the document

produced before the Court shows that one time

settlement was entered between them on 30.12.2011

and Union Bank of India has given settlement certificate

accepting 11,20,00,000 as against due of

Rs.17,19,11,526/- and relieved the petitioner from the

liabilities. The other document produced by the

petitioner in respect of Canara Bank i.e. in respect of 33 first petition is concerned, letter is dated 26.03.2013

and the Canara Bank also closed two loan accounts of

the petitioner accepting the amount under the OTS

Scheme and the fact of settlement arrived between the

parties i.e. with the second respondent and from them

financial availment was availed by the petitioner is not

in dispute and further more, the respective Banks have

also not contested this petition and I have already

pointed out that though the Union Bank of India

engaged the counsel, the counsel did not choose to

contest the matter and only respondent No.1 should

have conducted the investigation is opposing the

quashing of the charge sheet. 19. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the judgments referred above , it is made clear that if it affects the

society at large, there cannot be quashing of the

proceedings that too particularly the offence in respect

of extortion, forgery and conspiracy and the acts are not 34 in the interest of society, there cannot be any quashing

of proceedings and this has been discussed in the

judgment of Parbatbhai Aashir 's case (supra) which has

been relied upon by the respondent No.1 and also in the

judgment reported in (2018) 3 SCC 290 in the case of Anita Maria Dias and Another Vs. State of

Maharashtra and Another and guidelines has been

laid down for quashing of proceedings based on

compromise of a settlement between the parties. The

Hon'ble Apex Court in this judgment held that High

Court has to examine as to whether the possibility of

conviction is remote and bleak and continuation of

criminal cases would put the accused to great

oppression and prejudice and extreme injustice would

be caused to him by not quashing the criminal cases. At

the same time, it is also held that the Court has to

examine whether it is in the initial stage i.e. during the

course of investigation or if any charge sheet has been

filed and whether the trial has been commenced and if it 35 is in the stage of hearing the arguments and in this

judgment it is categorically held that if it is in the stage

of charge sheet is framed but the evidence is yet to start

or the evidence is still at infancy stage, the High Court

can show benevolence in exercising its powers

favourably, but after prima facie assessment of the

circumstances/material mentioned above. It is

specifically held that where the proceedings are still at

initial and nascent stage, the High Court should have

exercised its discretion in quashing the proceedings by

referring the judgment of the Parbatbhai Aahir 's case

and laid down the guidelines. 20. In the present case on hand also it has to be

noted that similarly after taking the cognizance against

the petitioner, the petitioner has approached this Court

and this Court also granted stay till further orders and

trial is not commenced and it is in the initial stage and

it has to be noted that the matter has been settled 36 between the parties and the very financial institutions

came forward to settle the matter and given the letter of

one time settlement and no dues certificate and also the

financial institution is not coming forward to contest the

case except the investigating agency and the Hon'ble

Apex Court also in the judgments referred supra has

categorically held in the recent judgment in the case of Anita Maria Dias 's case that even for the offences

punishable under Sections 406 , 467 , 471 and 34 of IPC

like the offence invoked against the petitioner in the

present petitions held that the High Court has to

examine as to whether the possibility of conviction is

remote and bleak and in the case on hand also when

the complainants themselves came forward for

settlement and settled the issue and the allegation is

also that the hypothecated stock was removed and sold

and suppressed the very same hypothecation made to

the earlier bank and availed the loan in the subsequent

bank and no doubt the transactions are taken place 37 between the petitioner and the financial institutions and

the Hon'ble Apex Court in the recent judgment

discussed with regard to both in respect of stage of the

case and also whether it ends in conviction and whether

it is remote and bleak and in the case on hand also

when the complainants themselves have compromised

the matter and the prosecuting agency is the

complainants and when they have settled the matter by

receiving the dues and also the very purpose of offering

security in favour of the Bank is to recover the amount

from the borrower and in the case on hand already the

very purpose and object has been achieved by

recovering the amount from the petitioner and the dues

in favour of the financial institutions has been recovered

and hence I am of the opinion that it is a fit case to

exercise powers under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. and no

purpose would be served in continuing the proceedings

against the petitioner and the stage is also initial and no

trial has been commenced and in keeping the object 38 also, the conviction is bleak since the very complainants

themselves are not pressing the matter and not

contesting the matter and if the criminal proceedings

continued, the same would become a futile effort as held

by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Gian Singh 's case (supra)

and in Gian Singh 's case also the Hon'ble Apex Court

held that certain offences which overwhelmingly and

predominantly bear civil flavour having arisen out of

civil, mercantile, commercial, financial, partnership or

such like transactions or the offences arising out of

matrimony, particularly relating to dowry, etc., or the

family dispute, where the wrong is basically to the

victim and the offender and the victim have settled all

disputes between them amicably, irrespective of the fact

that such offences have not been made compoundable,

the High Court may within the framework of its inherent

power, quash the criminal proceeding or criminal

complaint or FIR if it is satisfied that on the face of such

settlement, there is hardly any likelihood of the offender 39 being convicted and by not quashing the criminal

proceedings, justice shall be casualty and ends of

justice shall be defeated. 21. For having considered the principles laid

down in the Gian Singh 's case and also the recent

judgment in Anita Maria Dias 's case, I am of the

opinion that it is a fit case to exercise powers under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. and those judgments are aptly

applicable on the present case on hand and the very

contention of the respondent No.1-CBI that it is

financial irregularities and fraud has been committed

and the Court cannot quash the proceedings against the

petitioner cannot be accepted and also in the judgment

referred by the respondent in Parbatbhai Aahir 's case

also the Hon'ble Apex Court discussed and laid down

the guidelines that if it is in the initial stage and trial

has not commenced and if it is ended in conviction and

there is a chance of bleak of conviction, the High Court 40 can exercise its power. Having considered the factual

aspects and also the subsequent developments of the

settlement arrived between the parties, I am of the

opinion that this Court can exercise powers under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. to quash the proceedings or

otherwise the very purpose would be defeated and if the

proceedings is continued even after the settlement, it

amounts to an abuse of process. 22. In view of the discussions made above, I

proceed to pass the following: