1.Amarjeet Singh @ Chhotu 2.Bhakt Bandhu Paun @ Bhakta Bandhu Pan Vikash @ Raju
@ Sukhu Paun
 ... ... Appellants
 Versus
State of Jharkhand ... ... Respondent ------- CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE SUJIT NARAYAN PRASAD
 HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE ARUN KUMAR RAI ------ For the Appellants : Mr. R.S. Mazumdar, Sr. Advocate
 Mr. Rohan Mazumdar, Advocate
For the Respondent : Mr. Bhola Nath Ojha, Spl. P.P. -------- C.A.V. On 02.02.2026 Pronounced on 05/02/2026
Per Sujit Narayan Prasad, J: Prosecution Story: Charge of the Noamundi Police Station. Submission on behalf of appellant no. 1 8. Learned senior counsel for the appellant no.1, has

submitted that earlier this Court has dismissed one

interlocutory application filed by the present appellant no.1

being I.A. (Cr.) No. 1518 of 2024 vide order dated 13th March,

2024 whereby the prayer for suspension of sentence of the

appellant no.1 has been rejected. 9. Submission has been made that reason for filing the

instant interlocutory application on behalf of the appellant

no.1 is that after the rejection of the earlier interlocutory

application of the appellant no.1, one of the co-convicts

namely Bhakt Bandhu Paun @ Bhakta Bandhu Pan Vikash @ -4- Raju @ Sukhu Paun has been allowed to be released on bail

after suspension of sentence by the Co-ordinate Bench of this

Court vide order dated 08.12.2025 passed in I.A. (Cr.) No.

15933 of 2025 (in Cr. Appeal (DB) No. 258 of 2020). 10. The learned Senior Counsel on the basis of the aforesaid

fact has raised the issue of parity and has submitted that

since the prayer for suspension of sentence of similarly

placed co-convict namely Bhakt Bandhu Paun @ Bhakta

Bandhu Pan Vikash @ Raju @ Sukhu Paun has been allowed,

therefore the prayer for suspension of sentence of appellant

no.1 is fit to be allowed. 11. The learned senior counsel has further submitted that

from perusal of order dated 08.12.2025 passed in I.A. (Cr.)

No. 15933 of 2025 by which co-convict namely Bhakt

Bandhu Paun @ Bhakta Bandhu Pan Vikash @ Raju @

Sukhu Paun has been ordered to release on bail, it would be

evident that learned co-ordinate Bench has taken into

consideration the medical report as well as absence of the

nude video purportedly of the victim and based upon that

consideration the prayer for suspension of the sentence of the

said co-convict has been allowed, therefore, the prayer for

suspension of the sentence of the appellant no.1 may be

allowed on the basis of the aforesaid finding of the co-

ordinate Bench. -5- 12. It has further been submitted that the appellant no. 1 is

languishing in judicial custody since the month of January,

2019 and based upon the same the prayer has been made for

suspension of sentence in connection with the present case.

Submission of learned Spl.P.P for state 13. The learned Spl. Public Prosecutor appearing for the

respondent-State has vehemently opposed the prayer so

made in the present interlocutory application. 14. It has been submitted that earlier the co-convict namely

Bhakt Bandhu Paun @ Bhakta Bandhu Pan Vikash @ Raju @

Sukhu Paunb has filed an Inter-locutory Application being

I.A. No.2073 of 2022 before the co-ordinate Bench of this

Court and the said interlocutory application of the co-convict

had been dismissed vide order dated 6.6.2022 after due

appreciation on merit of the case. But the same co-ordinate

Bench of this Court vide order dated 08.12.2025 passed in

I.A. (Cr.) No. 15933 of 2025 has allowed the prayer of the

suspension of sentence of the said co-convict after taking into

consideration the custody of the said co-convict as well as

merit of the case. 15. The learned Special Public Prosecutor by referring the

aforesaid fact has submitted that order dated 6.6.2022

passed in I.A. No.2073 of 2022 by which prayer for

suspension of sentence of the said co-convict was dismissed -6- on merit has not been assailed before the higher forum i.e.

Hon'ble supreme court and thereafter again I.A was filed for

the same relief which was allowed vide order 08.12.2025,

therefore the benefit should not be granted to the appellant

no.1. 16. The ground has also been taken that from perusal of

order dated 08.12.2025 passed in I.A. (Cr.) No. 15933 of 2025

by which co-convict namely Bhakt Bandhu Paun @ Bhakta

Bandhu Pan Vikash @ Raju @ Sukhu Paun has been ordered

to release on bail, it would be evident that the earlier order of

rejection of bail of the appellant no.1 has not been placed

before the co-ordinate Bench which is nothing but

suppression of material fact which led the co-ordinate Bench

passing the order allowing the interlocutory application filed

by the co-convict, namely, Babli Singh @ Babla Singh @ Ritlal

Singh Bhakt Bandhu Paun @ Bhakta Bandhu Pan Vikash @

Raju @ Sukhu Paun. 17. Learned Additional Public Prosecutor, based upon the

aforesaid ground, has seriously opposed the prayer so made

in the instant interlocutory application and has submitted

that since earlier the prayer for suspension of sentence of the

appellant no.1 has already been dismissed on merit and

further there is no change in the circumstances or fact of the -7- case as such the prayer for suspension of sentence of the

appellant no.1 is fit to be dismissed. Analysis 18. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties, gone

across the finding recorded by the learned trial court in the

impugned judgment. 19. The ground has been taken on behalf of the appellant

no. 1 regarding parity from the co-convict, namely, Bhakt

Bandhu Paun @ Bhakta Bandhu Pan Vikash @ Raju @

Sukhu Paun. 20. It needs to refer herein that the prayer for suspension of

sentence of the present appellant no. 1 has already been

considered by this Court and vide order dated 13th March,

2024 passed in interlocutory application being I.A. (Cr.) No.

1518 of 2024 the same has been rejected on merit. 21. This Court, on perusal of the order dated 13 th March,

2024, passed in I.A. (Cr.) No. 1518 of 2024 has found the

ground taken on behalf of the appellant no. 1 as also the

objection raised on behalf of the learned State counsel,

thereafter, the Court has considered the issue on merit as

would be evident from relevant paragraphs-05 to 09 of the

aforesaid order, for ready reference the said paragraphs are

being quoted as under: 22. It is evident from the aforesaid order that this Court

while considering the issue of suspension of sentence of the

present appellant (appellant no.1) has taken into

consideration the testimony of the victim girl P.W. - 4, and

found therefrom that she has fully supported the prosecution -9- version and remained consistent in her cross-examination. It

has been deposed by her that she was subjected to rape by

both the accused persons. 23. It is further evident from paragraph -7 of the aforesaid

order that while rejecting the prayer for suspension of

sentence of the appellant no.1, the Co-ordinate Bench had

taken note of the order dated 06.06.2022 passed in I.A. No.

2073 of 2022 by which prayer for suspension of sentenced of

the co-convict namely Bhakt Bandhu Paun @ Bhakta

Bandhu Pan Vikash @ Raju @ Sukhu Paun has been

rejected. 24. For ready reference the relevant paragraph of the order

dated 06.06.2022 passed in I.A. No. 2073 of 2022 by which

prayer for suspension of sentenced of the co-convict namely

Bhakt Bandhu Paun @ Bhakta Bandhu Pan Vikash @ Raju @

Sukhu Paun has been rejected is being referred herein which

reads as under: 25. From the perusal of the aforesaid order it is evident that

the co-ordinate Bench of this Court while rejecting the prayer - 10 - for suspension of sentence of said the co-convict namely

Bhakt Bandhu Paun @ Bhakta Bandhu Pan Vikash @ Raju @

Sukhu Paun on merit, has taken into consideration the fact

that P.W-4 who is the victim is consistent with respect to the

commission of rape upon her repeatedly by both the accused

persons including the co-convict and the medical report also

indicates that sexual intercourse had taken place. 26. It is pertinent to mention herein that the said co-convict

namely Bhakt Bandhu Paun @ Bhakta Bandhu Pan Vikash @

Raju @ Sukhu Paun has again moved an application being

I.A. (Cr.) No. 15933 of 2025 for suspension of sentence and

vide order dated 08.1.2025, the said application was allowed

by the same Co-ordinate Bench after again going into merit of

the case, for ready reference the relevant paragraph of the

said order is being quoted as under: 27. It is evident from perusal of the aforesaid order that the

co-ordinate Bench of this Court while allowing the prayer for

suspension of sentence has taken into consideration the

different factual aspect of the case and has observed that in

absence of the nude video purportedly of the victim, we are

inclined to admit the appellant no.2 on bail. 28. It needs to refer herein that from perusal of the

aforesaid order it is also evident that the co-ordinate Bench

has also taken note of the order dated 06.06.2022 passed in

I.A. No. 2073 of 2022 by which prayer for suspension of

sentenced of the co-convict appellant no,.2 has been rejected. 29. Thus, from the aforesaid it is evident that the same co-

ordinate Bench had taken the different view on different date,

even in the case where after post-conviction there is no

change in the circumstances and the factual aspect of the

case, then question arises herein that in the said

circumstances whether benefit of parity can be extended to

the appellant no.1. 30. It needs to refer herein that the law is well settled so far

as the issue to be considered for the purpose of applying the - 12 - principle of parity that while applying the principle of parity,

all surrounding facts are to be taken into consideration,

reference in this regard may be made to the judgment

rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Tarun

Kumar vs. Assistant Director Directorate of Enforcement ,

2023 SCC OnLine SC 1486 wherein, it has held as under: 31. The Hon'ble Apex Court has further observed in the

aforesaid judgment, i.e., Tarun Kumar vs. Assistant

Director Directorate of Enforcement (supra) that it is

axiomatic that the principle of parity is based on the

guarantee of positive equality before law enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution. However, if any illegality or

irregularity has been committed in favour of any individual or

a group of individuals, or a wrong order has been passed by a

judicial forum, others cannot invoke the jurisdiction of the

higher or superior court for repeating or multiplying the same

irregularity or illegality or for passing similar wrong order. Article 14 is not meant to perpetuate the illegality or

irregularity. If there has been a benefit or advantage - 13 - conferred on one or a set of people by any authority or by the

court, without legal basis or justification, other persons could

not claim as a matter of right the benefit on the basis of such

wrong decision. 32. It is further settled connotation of law that Court cannot

exercise its power in a capricious manner and has to consider

the totality of circumstances before granting bail and by only

simply saying that another accused has been granted bail is

not sufficient to determine whether a case for grant of bail on

the basis of parity has been established. Reference in this

regard may be made to the judgment rendered by the Hon'ble

Apex Court in Ramesh Bhavan Rathod vs. Vishanbhai

Hirabhai Makwana , (2021) 6 SCC 230, wherein, it has

been held as under: record that the second respondent is entitled to be
admitted to bail on the ground of parity. It can be stated
with absolute certitude that it was not a case of parity
and, therefore, the impugned order [ Mitthan Yadav v.
State of U.P. , 2014 SCC OnLine All 16031] clearly
exposes the non-application of mind. That apart, as a
matter of fact it has been brought on record that the
second respondent has been charge-sheeted in respect
of number of other heinous offences. The High Court has
failed to take note of the same. Therefore, the order has
to pave the path of extinction, for its approval by this
Court would tantamount to travesty of justice, and
accordingly we set it aside." 26. Another aspect of the case which needs emphasis is
the manner in which the High Court has applied the
principle of parity. By its two orders both dated 21-12-
2020 [ Pravinbhai Hirabhai Koli v. State of Gujarat , 2020
SCC OnLine Guj 2986] , [Khetabhai Parbatbhai
Makwana v. State of Gujarat, 2020 SCC OnLine Guj
2988] , the High Court granted bail to Pravin Koli (A-10)
and Kheta Parbat Koli (A-15). Parity was sought with
Sidhdhrajsinh Bhagubha Vaghela (A-13) to whom bail
was granted on 22-10-2020 [ Siddhrajsinh Bhagubha
Vaghela v. State of Gujarat , 2020 SCC OnLine Guj 2985]
on the ground (as the High Court recorded) that he was
"assigned similar role of armed with stick (sic)". Again,
bail was granted to Vanraj Koli (A16) on the ground that
he was armed with a wooden stick and on the ground
that Pravin (A10), Kheta (A-15) and Sidhdhrajsinh (A-13)
who were armed with sticks had been granted bail. The
High Court has evidently misunderstood the central
aspect of what is meant by parity. Parity while granting
bail must focus upon the role of the accused. Merely
observing that another accused who was granted bail
was armed with a similar weapon is not sufficient to
determine whether a case for the grant of bail on the
basis of parity has been established. In deciding the
aspect of parity, the role attached to the accused, their - 15 - position in relation to the incident and to the victims is of
 utmost importance. The High Court has proceeded on
 the basis of parity on a simplistic assessment as noted
 above, which again cannot pass muster under the law." 33. Recently, the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Sagar

Vs. State of UP & Anr. , 2025 INSC 1370 has categorically

observed that while utilizing parity as a ground for bail, the

same must focus on the role of the accused and cannot be

utilized solely because another accused person was granted

bail in connection with the same offence, and neither can this

ground be claimed as a matter of right, the relevant

paragraphs are being quoted as under: When weighing an application on parity, it is „position‟
 that is the clincher. The requirement of „position‟ is not
 met only by involvement in the same offence. Position
 means what the person whose application is being - 16 - weighed, his position in crime, i.e., his role etc. There
 can be different roles played - someone part of a large
 group, intending to intimidate; an instigator of violence;
 someone who throws hands at the other side, instigated
 by such words spoken by another, someone who fired a
 weapon or swung a machete - parity of these people will
 be with those who have performed similar acts, and not
 with someone who was part of the group to intimidate
 the other by the sheer size of the gathering, with
 another who attempted to hack away at the opposer‟s
 limbs with a weapon." 34. Thus, from the aforesaid it is evident that while

appreciating issue of parity, the Court should emphasize on

the role played by the accused and not the thread of the same

offence being the only common factor between the accused

persons. 35. In the backdrop of the aforesaid settled position of law,

we proceed to delve further. 36. Admittedly, from perusal of the order dated 08.12.2025

passed by the Co-ordinate Bench, it is evident that the order

dated 13.03.2024 by which the prayer of suspension of the

sentence of the present appellant (appellant no.1) has been

declined, has not been referred in the order passed by the co-

ordinate Bench, meaning thereby, it is apparent that the

order dated 13.03.2024 by which prayer for suspension of

sentence of the appellant no.1 was rejected, has not been

taken note by the co-ordinate Bench at the time of

consideration of prayer for suspension sentence of the co- - 17 - convict namely Bhakt Bandhu Paun @ Bhakta Bandhu Pan

Vikash @ Raju @ Sukhu Paun and has gone into merit of the

case and allowed the prayer of co-convict against whom

parity is now claimed. 37. Further it is admitted fact that earlier vide order dated

06.06.2022 by which the prayer for suspension of sentence of

the said co-convict has been rejected by the same co-ordinate

Bench by taking note of the consistent statement/deposition

of the prosecutrix/victim (P.W.4), but on 08.12.2025 the

same co-ordinate Bench after taking into consideration the

different aspect/fact, has allowed the prayer for suspension

of said co-convict. 38. We are not making any comment on the order passed by

the learned Co-ordinate Bench, since we are not sitting in

appeal. But since the issue of parity has been raised, as

such, the aforesaid observation is required to be made for

appreciation of the arguments advanced by the learned

counsel for the applicant. 39. From perusal of impugned order it is evident that there

is allegation against the present appellant (appellant no.1)

that he had committed gang rape on the prosecutrix/ victim,

a minor girl under the age of 16 years, by constituting a

group and acting in furtherance of a common intention, when

she (prosecutrix) had gone to bring milk from the house of - 18 - the present appellant (appellant no.1) and thereafter the

present appellant and co-convict continued to ravish the

prosecutrix repeatedly by calling her at different places by

blackmailing her on the ground of making her nude pictures

and videos viral on social media like facebook and whatsapp

etc. 40. P.W.4 the Victim has deposed in her testimony that she

used to go to the house of the accused Chhotu @ Amarjeet

(appellant no.1) for bringing milk from there and one day

when she had gone to bring milk from his house, the

Amarjeet told her to decant food in his house and when she

went inside his house, he bolted the doors from inside.

Thereafter, when she tried to cry, the accused persons

Chhotu @ Amarjeet Singh (appellant no.1) and the Vikash

Munda (co-convict) shut her mouth and they disrobed her

and thereafter they committed rape on her. 41. Thus, it is evident from impugned order that all the

prosecution witnesses have fully supported the prosecution

story and the victim has remained quite consistent on the

date, time and place of occurrence as well as the occurrence

also. 42. On the basis of discussion made hereinabove this Court,

therefore, is of the view that since we are dealing with the

heinous offence like rape against the minor, therefore, the - 19 - principle of parity and the principle of judicial discipline on

the strength of order passed by the co-ordinate Bench

claiming parity of bail being granted to the co-convict, cannot

be made applicable herein. 43. Further at this juncture it needs to refer herein that the

Court while considering the application for suspension of

sentence and grant of bail, is to consider only the prima facie

merits of the appeal. Further it is settled position of law that

there is difference between grant of bail in case of pre-trial

arrest and suspension of sentence, post- conviction. In the

earlier case, there may be presumption of innocence,

however, in case of post-conviction bail, by suspension of

operation of the sentence, there is a finding of guilt and the

question of presumption of innocence does not arise and the

principle of bail being the rule and jail an exception is not

attracted, if there is conviction upon trial, reference in this

regard be made to the judgment rendered by the Hon'ble

Apex Court in the case of Preet Pal Singh vs. State of U.P. ,

(2020) 8 SCC 645.For ready reference the relevant paragraph

of the aforesaid judgment is being quoted as under: 44. Thus, it is evident from the aforesaid judgment that

during consideration of suspension of sentence which is the

post-conviction stage, the presumption of innocence in favour

of the accused cannot be available and at this stage, the

Court's only duty is to see that the prima- facie case is made

out or not, as such, the detailed appreciation of evidence is

not required at this stage. It has further been observed by the

Hon'ble Apex Court that there should be strong compelling

reasons for grant of bail, notwithstanding an order of

conviction, by suspension of sentence, and this strong and

compelling reason must be recorded in the order granting

bail, as mandated in Section 389(1) CrPC. - 21 - 45. Further, it is settled connotation of law that the

appellate court should not reappreciate the evidence at the

stage of consideration of suspension of sentence and try to

pick up a few lacunae or loopholes here or there in the case

of the prosecution. Such would not be a correct approach and

at this stage Court is only to see the prima facie case for its

satisfaction. 46. So far, the other contention is concerned that the

appellant has remained in custody for seven years out of

maximum imposed sentence of life-imprisonment, as such on

this ground alone the prayer for suspension of sentence may

be allowed. 47. So far as 7 years of custody against the sentence of life

imprisonment is concerned, it is settled position of law that

merely on the ground of custody, the sentence is not to be

suspended, rather, the sentence can be a ground coupled

with the attributability as has been found and substantiated

in course of trial. 48. It is the settled position of law that the period of custody

cannot be the sole ground for suspension of sentence, rather,

the nature of crime as has been found to be proved against

one or the other, the appellant herein, is to be taken into

consideration and even if the convict has completed

substantive sentence, that cannot be a sole ground for - 22 - suspension of sentence if the nature of offence having been

proved in course of trial is serious. 49. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Shivani Tyagi v.

State of U.P. & Anr. 2024 INSC 343 has categorically

observed that mere factum of sufferance of incarceration for a

particular period and likelihood of delay in disposal of cases,

in a case where life imprisonment is imposed, cannot be a

reason for invocation of power u/s. 389 without referring to

the relevant factors and each case has to be examined on its

own merits and based on the given parameters. 50. It has further been observed by the Hon'ble Apex Court

that the factors like nature of the offence held to have

committed, the manner of their commission, the gravity of the

offence, and also the desirability of releasing the convict on

bail are to be considered objectively and such consideration

should reflect in the consequential order passed under Section 389 , Cr.PC. It is also relevant to state that the mere

factum of sufferance of incarceration for a particular period,

in a case where life imprisonment is imposed, cannot be a

reason for invocation of power under Section 389 Cr.PC

without referring to the relevant factors. 51. Further, it needs to refer herein that recently, the

Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Chhotelal Yadav versus

State of Jharkhand & Anr. (Criminal Appeal - 23 - no.4804/2025) has specifically observed that while

considering the plea for suspension of sentence of life

imprisonment is that the convict should be in a position to

point out something very palpable or a very gross error in the

judgment of the Trial Court on the basis of which he is able

to make good his case that on this ground alone, his appeal

deserves to be allowed. 52. Since in the instant case there is grave allegation

against the present appellant that he has committed gang

rape with the minor under the age of 16 years, when she

(prosecutrix) had gone to bring milk from the house of the

present appellant (appellant no.1), therefore this Court is of

the view that the alleged crime comes under the purview of

heinous crime, hence as per the ratio laid down by the

Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Shivani Tyagi v. State of

U.P. & Anr. (supra) , the prayer for suspension of the present

appellant (appellant no.1) is not fit to be allowed. 53. Herein, it is the specific attributability against the

present appellant(appellant no.1) as would be evident from

testimony of the prosecutrix/victim P.W.4 having been

corroborated by the witnesses which having been taken note

by this Court on earlier occasion also, while rejecting the

prayer for suspension of sentence, therefore, is of the view

that merely on the ground of custody having been undergone - 24 - by the present appellant of about seven years against the

 sentence of life imprisonment cannot be a ground for

 suspending the sentence leaving aside the attributability

 found to be substantiated in course of trial. 54. Therefore, on the basis of discussion made hereinabove,

 this Court is of the view that it is not a fit case for suspension

 of sentence of the present appellant. 55. Accordingly, I.A. No. 1294 of 2026 stands dismissed. 56. It is made clear that any observation made herein will

 not prejudice the issue on merit as the appeal is lying

 pending for its consideration.