VIBHU BAKHRU, J 1. The petitioner has filed the present petition being aggrieved by
the action of respondent no.3 (hereafter 'DRI') freezing her current
account no. 307301010294199 maintained with respondent no.2
(Union Bank of India's Branch located at Fatehpuri, Khari Baoli, Delhi - hereafter 'UBI'). By the letter dated 19.03.2014 (hereafter 'the
impugned communication'), the DRI had called upon UBI to not to
permit any debit/withdrawal from the petitioner's account till further W.P.(C) 7367/2016 Page 1 of 1 communication. It is stated that the same was in connection with
investigation of an "alleged export fraud case". UBI complied with the
aforesaid request and informed the petitioner of the same by a letter
dated 12.01.2015. 2. The principal controversy involved in the present case is
whether the impugned communication is lawful. The petitioner alleges
that the impugned communication is without authority of law and not
in accordance with the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 (hereafter
'the Customs Act '). Factual Background 3. The petitioner is a sole proprietorship concern of Smt Deepa
wife of Sh Vishal Kumar. The petitioner claims to be engaged in
trading business of readymade garments. It is stated that she procures
readymade garments from domestic suppliers and supplies the same to
various buyers including exporters. The petitioner states that during the
course of business, the petitioner had supplied readymade garments to
exporters including M/s Konark Exim Pvt. Ltd., M/s G.D. Mangalam
Exim Pvt. Ltd., M/s Sidh Designers Pvt. Ltd., M/s Yogmaya Traders
Pvt. Ltd. and M/s DSM International; the five exporters being
investigated by the DRI. 4. The counter affidavit filed by the DRI indicates that the DRI had
received specific information that the high value transfers had been
received in the bank account of certain traders/vendors from five Delhi
based exporters. The petitioner was one of the recipients of such high W.P.(C) 7367/2016 Page 2 of 2 value transfers. In connection with the investigation, the DRI had
issued summons to the petitioner for submission of sale and purchase
invoices. It is stated by the DRI that one Sh Gopal Sharma had
appeared on behalf of the petitioner and had claimed that he was the
actual controller of the petitioner and several other trading firms. His
statement was recorded under Section 108 of the Customs Act. The
DRI claims that in his statement, Gopal Sharma had admitted that he
had opened bank accounts of seven concerns with UBI including the
bank account of the petitioner and he also operated the said accounts
by obtaining signatures of the account holders as and when necessary. 5. It is stated that summons were also issued to Smt Deepa, the
proprietor of R.K Impex; however, she did not appear before the
concerned officer. The DRI further states that the investigations had
revealed that the firms operated by Sh Gopal Sharma had remitted
funds into the accounts of various other entities, which were dealing in
diamonds and were booked for sending foreign exchanges on the basis
of forged bills of entry to several entities outside India. These entities
had in turn remitted amounts to the five exporters being investigated
by the DRI. 6. It is in the aforesaid context that the DRI had issued the
impugned communication for freezing the petitioner's bank account
maintained with UBI. 7. Mr Aggrawal, learned counsel, who appeared for the DRI was
unable to point out any provision of law in exercise of which the DRI W.P.(C) 7367/2016 Page 3 of 3 sent the impugned communication. He, however, contended that the
DRI was investigating the case of fraudulent exports and, therefore, a
blanket order permitting the petitioner to operate the account ought not
to be granted. He submitted that in the facts of the present case, the
petitioner could be permitted to operate the bank account subject to
providing adequate security. He relied upon the decision of the
Supreme Court in Commissioner of Customs v. Euroasia Global: 8. This Court is informed that the investigations are complete and
the DRI has already issued a show cause notice in respect of the
investigation conducted in the case of the five exporting firms -
namely, M/s Konark Exim Pvt. Ltd., M/s G.D. Mangalam Exim Pvt.
Ltd., M/s Sidh Designers Pvt. Ltd., M/s Yogmaya Traders Pvt. Ltd.
and M/s DSM International - calling upon the noticees to, inter alia,
show cause as to why penalty should not be imposed. Concededly, the
petitioner is not one of the noticees. However, Mr Aggarwal contended
that Sh Gopal Sharma was a controller of seven domestic firms
including the petitioner and he has been arrayed as a noticee. 9. A plain reading of the show cause notice - a copy of which was
handed over to the Court during the course of the arguments -
indicates that Sh Gopal Sharma has been called upon to show cause as
to why penalty under Section 114 (iii) of the Customs Act should not
be imposed on him for having abetted fraudulent export of goods by
the aforementioned five exporters resulting in incorrect availment of
Drawback and Duty scripts under the Focus Product Scheme. 10. Plainly, the said show cause notice cannot result in any adverse
order against Smt Deepa (the sole proprietor of R.K. Impex) as she is
not one of the noticees. The impugned communication is in the nature
of an ad interim measure; therefore, it is difficult to understand its
purpose as, admittedly, no proceedings have been commenced against
the petitioner. 11. Having stated above, the principal question that still looms
large is whether the impugned communication is founded on any
statutory provision. 12. The Customs Act includes provisions regarding search, seizure
and arrest. Section 105 of the Customs Act empowers specified
officers to search premises provided there is reason to believe that any
goods are liable for confiscation or any documents or things which
would be useful or relevant to any proceedings under the Customs Act are secreted at such premises. Section 110 of the Customs Act
expressly provides for seizure of goods, documents and things where a
proper officer has the reason to believe that such goods are liable for W.P.(C) 7367/2016 Page 5 of 5 confiscation. Section 105 and Section 110 of the Customs Act are set
out below:- 110. Seizure of Goods, Documents and Things.-- section (1A), have been seized by a proper officer under
 sub-section (1), he shall prepare an inventory of such
 goods containing such details relating to their description,
 quality, quantity, mark, numbers, country of origin and
 other particulars as the proper officer may consider
 relevant to the identity of the goods in any proceeding
 under this Act and shall make an application to a
 Magistrate for the purpose of-- or (b) taking, in the presence of the Magistrate, photographs
 of such goods, and certifying such photographs as true; or (c) allowing to draw representative samples of such goods,
 in the presence of the Magistrate, and certifying the
 correctness of any list of samples so drawn. (1C) Where an application is made under sub-section (1B),
 the Magistrate shall, as soon as may be, allow the
 application. (2) Where any goods are seized under sub-section (1) and
 no notice in respect thereof is given under clause (a) of section 124 within six months of the seizure of the goods,
 the goods shall be returned to the person from whose
 possession they were seized: 13. Plainly, the impugned communication has not been issued in
exercise of any of the aforesaid provisions. In S.B. International v.
The Assistant Director, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence and Ors. : W.P. (C) 237/2018, decided on 05.02.2018, this Court had rejected
the contention that such orders for freezing the bank accounts could be
issued by the DRI under Section 102 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973. 14. In the aforesaid view, this Court is unable to sustain the
impugned communication as the same is without the authority of law. 15. The reliance placed by Mr Aggarwal on the decision of the
Supreme Court in Commissioner of Customs v. Euroasia Global
(supra) is misplaced. In the said case, it was alleged that one Sh Sangit
Aggarwal was indulging in fraudulent imports of PVC Cloth by
misdeclaration of its value. His offices and residential premises were
searched and a sum of ₹23.90 lakhs was recovered. The said amount W.P.(C) 7367/2016 Page 8 of 8 was seized under Section 110 of the Customs Act on the belief that the
said currency was liable for confiscation as it represented sale proceeds
of smuggled goods. In the aforesaid context, the principal controversy
before the Court was whether misdeclaration of the description and
value of the goods in question would constitute "smuggling". The High
Court had directed unconditional release of cash. However, the
Supreme Court was, prima facie, of the view that before adjudication,
the High Court ought not to have granted unconditional release and,
therefore, directed release of the seized currency against a bank
guarantee. In the present case, concededly, the impugned
communication has not been passed under Section 110 of the Customs
Act. Further, any seizure under Section 110 of the Customs Act is also
required to be followed by an adjudication under Section 122 of the
Customs Act, which requires a prior show cause notice under Section
124 of the Customs Act. Concededly, no such proceedings have been
commenced against the petitioner. In this view, the decision of the
Supreme Court in Commissioner of Customs v. Euroasia Global
(supra) is of little assistance to the respondents. 16. The decision in the case of Ravi Crop. Science v. UOI & Ors. (supra) is equally inapplicable in the facts of the present case. In that
case, the bank accounts of the appellant were frozen on an allegation
that the same were sale proceeds of smuggled goods which were liable
for confiscation under Section 121 of the Customs Act. The Court
noted that a show cause notice to the said effect had already been
issued, which was pending adjudication. Further, the appellant also W.P.(C) 7367/2016 Page 9 of 9 failed to explain the source of the imported goods, the sale proceeds of
which were credited into the bank account that has been frozen by the
DRI. As noticed above, there is no allegation that the amount lying
credited to the bank account of the petitioner is liable to be confiscated
as no notice in this regard has also been issued. It is also relevant to
note that the Division Bench also declined to render any interpretation
of Section 110 and Section 121 of the Customs Act. 17. In view of the above, the petition is allowed. The impugned
communication is set aside and UBI is directed to ignore the same. It
is, however, clarified that this would not preclude the DRI or any other
authority from initiating any action or any proceedings or taking any
action in accordance with law. VIBHU BAKHRU, J
AUGUST 29, 2018
pkv W.P.(C) 7367/2016 Page 10 of 10