Accused 1. Name of Complainant : Sandeep Kumar 2. Name of Accused : Badal @ Panja
 Offence complained of or 3. : Section 411 IPC
 proved 4. Plea of Accused : Not guilty
 Date of commission of 5. : 10.07.2021
 offence 6. Date of Filing of case : 03.09.2021 7. Date of Reserving Order : 28.09.2024 8. Date of Pronouncement : 03.10.2024 9. Final Order : Acquitted

Argued by -: Sh. Nadeem, learned APP for the State. Sh. Sachin Sharma, Ld. LAC for the accused. BRIEF STATEMENT OF REASONS FOR THE DECISION 1. Briefly stated, the allegations of the prosecution in
the present matter are that on 08.07.2021, the complainant
Sandeep Kumar had parked his motorcycle bearing registration
number DL 7S BR 0981 of make TVS 180 (hereinafter, "stolen
vehicle") outside his house and when he checked the same after
some time, he found that it was missing. The present E-FIR No.
018235/2021 was registered under Section 379 IPC at Police
Station Harsh Vihar qua the theft of the vehicle and thereafter, it
is alleged that on 10.07.2021, the accused Badal @ Panja was
found in possession of the stolen vehicle. 2. After culmination of investigation, charge sheet filed
against the accused. After taking cognizance, the accused was
summoned to face trial. A copy of the charge sheet was also
applied to the accused free of cost. On finding a prima facie case,
charge under Section 411 IPC was framed against the accused.
The accused pleaded not guilty to the charge alleged against him
and claimed trial. 3. During the trial, prosecution led the following oral
and documentary evidence against the accused to prove its
case beyond reasonable doubt-: 4. Sandeep Kumar (PW1) is the complainant. He has
deposed on oath that on 08.07.2021, he parked his motorcycle
outside his house in the street at about 04:00 pm and after some
time, he found it to be missing. He searched for the same but was
unable to find it. Thereafter, he registered the E-FIR regarding
the theft of the stolen vehicle. He deposed about preparation of
site plan at his instance. The witness was not cross examined by
the defence. 5. HC Pawan (PW5) is the sole recovery witness in
this case, who entered into the witness box and deposed that on
10.07.2021, he was on patrolling duties when a secret informer
met him and his associates and informed about the presence of
the accused in the area with possession of a stolen motorcycle.
He deposed that a raiding party was prepared and the accusd was
apprehended with a motorcycle, which was found to be stolen.
The accused was also found in possession of a stolen mobile
phone. He deposed about arrest of the accused and the
subsequent recovery of the stolen vehicle in this case, from near
the CNG pump at Sector 22, Rohini. The accused was then
produced before the Court and sent to judicial custody. He
deposed that on 11.07.2021, the IO in the present case reached
Rohini Court and arrested the accused formally. He identified the
accused and the photographs of the stolen vehicle. Digitally signed
 by DEV
 DEV CHAUDHARY
 CHAUDHARY Date: 2024.10.03
 11:43:32 +0530
 CR No. 4285/2021 State Vs. Badal @ Panja Page No. 3 of 10
 5.1. In cross examination, HC Pawan (PW5) stated
that the secret informer had identified the accused by face. He
denied the suggestions of the defence. 6. The remaining prosecution witness supported
the case of the prosecution and proved the documents mentioned
in the Table above. 7. Thereafter, before the start of defence
evidence, in order to allow the accused to personally explain the
incriminating circumstances appearing in evidence against him,
the statement of the accused was recorded without oath under Section 313 CrPC (read with Section 281 CrPC). The accused
stated that he is falsely implicated in the present case and is
innocent. He stated that the recovery is planted upon him.
Pursuant thereto, he stated that he does not wish to lead any
defence evidence. 8. I have heard the learned APP for the State and
learned counsel for the accused at length. Written arguments have
also been filed by the defence. I have also given my thorough
consideration to the material appearing on record. 9. It is argued by the learned APP for the State that the
prosecution has fulfilled all the ingredients of the offences
alleged against the accused. He has argued that the complainant's
version is corroborated by the other documentary evidence on
record and there is no reason to disbelieve the version of the
prosecution witnesses. He has argued that the offence has been
proved beyond reasonable doubt and it is prayed that the accused
be punished for the said offence. 10. Per contra, learned counsel for the accused has
argued that the prosecution has failed to discharge the burden Digitally
 signed by
 DEV
 DEV CHAUDHARY
 CHAUDHARY Date: 11. In order to prove the offence under the Section 411 IPC, the prosecution has to prove the recovery of the stolen
property from the accused as well as the requisite mens rea for
the commission of the offence. 12. Needless to state, under criminal law, the burden is
on the prosecution to prove the offences charged beyond any
reasonable doubt. This higher threshold is to be rebutted by the
defence by punching holes in the case of the prosecution. 13. In order to prove that the accused was found in
possession of stolen vehicle, the prosecution had to prove the
identity, ownership and the factum of theft of the vehicle in
question. PW1 has entered into the witness box to depose that he
had parked his vehicle outside his house and after some time, he
found the same to be stolen. The witness has identified the
photographs on record. However, it is seen that no evidence has
been led qua the identity of the vehicle, except the photographs. 14. The registration mark of any vehicle is a distinct
identity of the vehicle in question. The prosecution has not led
 Digitally

any evidence to prove the fact that the vehicle stolen was DEV
 signed by DEV
 CHAUDHARY
 CHAUDHARY Date: 15. Apart from the factum of ownership and theft of the
property, the gist of the offence under Section 411 IPC remains
the recovery of the stolen property from the accused. The
prosecution is duty bound to prove not only the fact that the
accused was found in possession of the vehicle, but also the
necessary mens rea on part of the accused qua the said
possession. 16. In this regard, only one recovery witness has been
brought to the stand by the prosecution. PW5 has deposed that
on the date when the recovery was made from the accused, he
was on patrolling duties with some other officials in the area of
Rohini, and on the secret tip off, the accused was apprehended
with a stolen motorcycle pertaining to some other FIR, as well
as a stolen mobile phone. Thus, as per the version of this
witness, at the time when the accused was first apprehended two
days after the theft, he was not found driving the stolen property
of the present case. DEV Digitally signed by DEV CHAUDHARY
 CHAUDHARY Date: 2024.10.03
 11:45:33 +0530

 CR No. 4285/2021 State Vs. Badal @ Panja Page No. 6 of 10 17. The deposition of PW5 is to the effect that after the
accused was apprehended, he was arrested under Section 102 CrPC and his disclosure statement was recorded. In this
disclosure, the accused deposed about the fact that two stolen
motorcycles are parked near the CNG pump at Sector 22,
Rohini. Thereafter, recovery of these motorcycles, which
included the motorcycle in question in the present matter, was
made. In this narration of events, it is pertinent to note that the
prosecution has led absolutely no evidence to corroborate the
claims of this witness. There is no documentary evidence to
show that the witness was on patrolling duties on the date of
recovery. No kalandra, which was prepared by the witness,
including the arrest memo, disclosure statement, seizure memo
and site plan etc. has been tendered into evidence by the
prosecution. 18. The documentary evidence which has been tendered
on record in this case is the site plan of the place of theft, Ex.
PW1/B, the formal arrest memo of the accused in the Court
premises Ex. PW2/B, the seizure memo Ex. PW2/C pertaining
to the seizure of the already seized case property from the
malkhana of Aman Vihar Police Station, Rohini. These
documents pertain to the investigation in the present case, which
is only pursuant to the recovery already made from the accused
by the police officials at Rohini. Therefore, no evidence to show
the recovery has been tendered into evidence by the prosecution. 19. PW5 has not deposed about preparing any seizure
memo at the time of the recovery and he has also not tendered
into evidence any disclosure statement given to him by the
accused. Interestingly, the witness has deposed that he arrested Digitally
 signed by
 DEV
 DEV CHAUDHARY
 CHAUDHARY Date: 20. Even otherwise, the deposition qua the recovery
does not inspire confidence. No public witness has been joined
by the police officials in the recovery of the motorcycles, despite
the fact that the recovery was made in broad daylight. The place
of recovery is a fuel pump, which naturally is frequented by
public persons. PW5 has given a stereotypical version that even
though he requested public persons to join the raids, they
refused to do so. Thus, can safely be held that the police officials
have not made any sincere efforts to join any independent
witness in the recovery. In absence thereof, the testimony cannot
be relied beyond reasonable doubt. 21. A crucial factum in this case is the place of
recovery. PW5 has deposed that the accused disclosed to him
about the stolen motorcycles being kept near a CNG pump. The
witness has not deposed that the accused had informed him
about keeping the motorcycles there himself. There is no
elaboration as to exactly where the motorcycles were kept.
There is no evidence to show as to where the motorcycles were
parked, when the recovery was made. The only deposition being
"near the CNG pump", much is left to imagination. The place
being a public place, it cannot be said that the accused had
possession of the same. The Hon'ble Supreme Court, in Trimbak vs. State of MP AIR 1954 SC 39 has observed,
inter-alia, as under : Given the fact that the article in question is a
moving vehicle, with ease of transferability, it cannot be said
that the recovery has been proved from the accused
unimpeachably. 22. Moreover, the IO has not deposed the exact words
used by the accused at the time of making the disclosure
statement and the same cannot be said to be proved as per law. In this regard, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held in Hansraj
vs. State of MP 2024 INSC 318 , inter-alia, as under - As such, on basis of the above, the inescapable conclusion is
that the prosecution has failed to prove the offence on the
required threshold. CONCLUSION - 23. To recapitulate the above discussion, to bring home Digitally
 signed by
 DEV
 DEV CHAUDHARY
 CHAUDHARY Date: 24. Resultantly, the accused BADAL @ PANJA son of
Arvind Kumar is entitled for benefit of reasonable doubt and is
hereby found not guilty. He is ACQUITTED of the offence
under Section 411 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.