Heard counsel for the parties. The applicant has been arrested in connection with
Crime No.728/2009 registered with Police Station, M.P.
Nagar, District Bhopal of which further investigation is
being done under the supervision of S.T.F. Bhopal -
commonly known as VYAPAM examination scam cases -
for the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , and 120-B / 34 of IPC and under Section 3 / 4 of the M.P.
Manyata Prapt Pariksha Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicant, by the prosecution,
is that he acted as middleman to facilitate Indira Bariya in
commission of unfair means during the examination. The
applicant arranged for the impersonator - one Rachana. It is
not in dispute that the said impersonator as well as the
beneficiary Indira Bariya both have been released on bail.
Indeed, during the investigation, it has transpired that said
Rachana was arranged by one Deepak Verma on the request
of the applicant. Unfortunately, the said Deepak Verma is
reportedly dead. As a result, the presence of the applicant is
 not required by the Investigating Officer, nor custodial
interrogation of the applicant is required as of now. The applicant through counsel undertakes to extend
full cooperation to the Investigating Officer for the
purposes of further investigation in the crime in question
and also extend full cooperation for early disposal of the
trial. The applicant through counsel undertakes to abide by
all the conditions that may be imposed by this Court for
grant of bail. As charge-sheet has already been filed which
presupposes that investigation against the applicant is
complete as of now and the undertaking given by the
applicant through counsel across the Bar is taken into
consideration, in the interest of justice, the applicant is
ordered to be released on bail on following conditions to be
strictly observed by the applicant : (Rupees One Lac) with two solvent local
 sureties in the like amount to the
 satisfaction of the Trial Court for his
 regular appearance during the trial in
 connection with Crime No.728/2009 in
 Police Station M.P.Nagar, Distt Bhopal;
 (2) The applicant shall also comply with the
 conditions enumerated under Section
 437 (3) of Cr.P.C. meticulously; (3) Additionally, the applicant will report to
 the nearest Police Station where he
 would reside at Alirajpur once a week on
 every Sunday between 10:00 a.m. to
 12:00 noon unless required to attend the
 office of the Investigating Officer at
 Bhopal on that day; and
 (4) The applicant will deposit his passport,
 if available, with the Investigating
 Agency, else file affidavit in this Court
 declaring that the applicant does not
 have any passport of any country. This
 compliance will be condition precedent
 for release on bail. The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Cc as per rules.