1. Delay condoned. 2. The High Court has allowed the Signature Not Verified respondent(s) Writ Petition and has quashed the Digitally signed by NISHA KHULBEY Date: 2026.03.14 13:44:10 IST Reason: debit freezing of the accounts of Writ

 Petitioner(s) relying on the judgment rendered in

 the case of Headstar Global Pvt. Limited Vs. State 2 of Kerala & Ors. (Crl. MC No.3740/2025 decided on

02.06.2025. 3. Learned ASG appearing for the petitioner

would then refer to paragraph nos.-12 and 13 of

the order passed by this Court in Suo Moto Writ

Petition (Criminal) No.3/2025 wherein the

following has been observed/ directed; XXXX XXXX XXXX

 “12. It has also been brought
 to our notice that insofar as the
 issue of freezing of bank accounts
 involved in the digital arrest scams
 is concerned, there are conflicting
 views of the Kerala High Court in
 W.P. (C). No. 38383/2025 titled
 “Rasmi K.R. v. NCCRP & Ors.” and
 Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court in
 Criminal W.P. 328/2025 titled
 “Kartik Yogeshwar Chatur Vs. Union
 of India & Ors”. We have impressed
 upon the learned Solicitor General
 of India to see that the Special
 Leave Petitions are filed in both
 cases as early as possible, but not
 later than two weeks. In this
 regard, necessary assistance may be
 provided by the learned Amicus
 Curiae. The Registry is directed
 that as soon as such SLPs are filed,
 subject to curing of defects, the
 same be ordered to be listed before
 this Court without any delay. 13. In the meantime, we direct 3 that wherever any amount lying in a
 bank account is prima facie
 traceable to digital arrest or other
 cybercrimes, as already reported to
 the State police, the CBI or NCRP
 portal, the CBI and the State police
 authorities, with or without FIR,
 are at liberty to freeze such
 accounts.”

 XXXX XXXX XXXX 4. Learned ASG would thus submit that the

 instant petition has been preferred not only on

 merits but also in compliance of the observations

 made by this Court as extracted above. 5. Issue notice. 6. Tag with Suo Moto Writ Petition

 (Criminal) No.3/2025 after taking appropriate

 orders from the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of

 India. 7. In the meanwhile, operation and effect of

 the impugned order shall remain stayed. (NISHA KHULBEY) (CHETNA BALOONI)
COURT MASTER(SH) COURT MASTER(NSH)