IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr.MP(M) Nos.829 and 971 of 2023

 Decided on: 11th May, 2023

 . ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1. Cr.MP(M) No.829 of 2023
 Mohd. Saleem .....Petitioner

 Versus

 State of H.P. .....Respondent ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2. Cr.MP(M) No.971 of 2023

 Ainan Ahmad .....Petitioner

 Versus

 State of Himachal Pradesh .....Respondent ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Coram

 Ms. Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua, Judge

 Whether approved for reporting? 1

 For the Petitioner(s): Mr. Kulwant Singh Gill, Advocate, in
 Cr.MP(M) No.829 of 2023. Mr. Amit Singh Chandel, Advocate, in Cr.MP(M) No.971 of 20213 For the Respondent: Ms.Seema Sharma, Deputy Advocate
 General. SI Tek Chand, I.O. Police Station
 Batotiwala, present with record. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Whether reporters of print and electronic media may be allowed to see the order? No.175/2020, dated 15.12.2020, registered under Sections

 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code

 ( IPC ) and Section 66 of the Information Technology Act, at

 Police Station Barotiwala, District Solan. The petitioners in

 both these petitions have prayed for their enlargement on

 regular bail. Being inter-connected and arising out of the

 same FIR, these petitions are taken up together for

 adjudication. 2. Heard learned counsel for the parties and gone

 through the status report and record produced by the

 respondent. 3. Briefly, the facts of the case are that: - only a mock drill and the same would be removed. However,

 the company did not stop continuing with the illegal acts,

 rather the fake website also started showing data of

 students. The complainant apprehended that the company

 in question was practising deceit upon people by selling

 fake degrees and maligning the reputation of the

 complainant-Institution. On the basis of this complaint, the

 FIR was registered on 15.12.2020. 3(ii). Investigation revealed that domain name

 www.iecuniversity.org was registered through website

 Godaddy.com on 11.09.2019 on payment. The payment was

 made using e-mail [email protected] . On tracking

 Internet Protocol (IP) address, it was found that Internet

 Service Provider (ISP) for the same was Excitel Broadband

 Private Limited, New Delhi. 3(iii). Further investigation revealed that [email protected] was used by one Bharti of

 Govindpuri, Kalkaji, New Delhi, whose user ID was

 'bharti1262'. The police team visited this address. Mohd. Saleem (petitioner in Cr.MP(M) No.829 of 2023) and Bharti ::: Downloaded on - 12/05/2023 20:35:20 :::CIS 4 were found present at the spot and internet router/modem

 with MAC address was recovered from them, through which

 they used the internet of Excitel Company. Mohd. Saleem

 . revealed that Bharti was his business partner and they had

 availed the services of Ainan Ahamed (petitioner in

 Cr.MP(M) No.971 of 2023) to create fake website of IEC

 University. 3(iv). Police team visited the residence of Ainan

 Ahamed at Noida and recovered 376 blank and 5 filled

 mark-sheets, 270 Holograms of IEC, Certificates from 78

 Universities, cash amount of Rs.2,73,000/-, 165

 stamps/seals, six stamp pads, two laptops and one mobile

 phone from him. During investigations, Ainan Ahamed,

 Mohd. Saleem and Bharti statedly disclosed that they had

 prepared fake website of not only the complainant-IEC

 University, but of various other educational institutions and

 had distributed fake degrees, certificates and mark-sheets

 in different States throughout the country. The above three

 accused including the bail petitioners were arrested on

 04.02.2021. 3(v). During custodial interrogation, Ainan Ahamed

 statedly disclosed that he got fake degrees, diplomas and

 certificates printed through one Amjad S/o Sh. Haidar, ::: Downloaded on - 12/05/2023 20:35:20 :::CIS 5 resident of Shaheen Baag, Delhi. He also statedly disclosed

 that address and logo of IEC University were provided by

 one Hashnoor. Later on, it turned out that his real name

 . was Manish Kumar, resident of Fazilka, Punjab. Manish

 Kumar statedly ran a coaching institute at Fazilka and had

 disclosed his name as Hashnoor to Ainan Ahamed. Investigation revealed that Manish Kumar was involved in

 similar business of selling fake degrees. He was arrested on

 08.02.2021 from Fazilka and fake mark-sheets, which he

 got prepared from Ainan Ahamed, were recovered from him. Certain other incriminating articles were also recovered

 from him. 3(vi). During investigations, Ainan Ahamed got

 recorded his statement under Section 27 of the Indian

 Evidence Act that he ran the fake degree racket for quite

 some time. With the help and connivance of other accused

 persons, he got prepared about 25 fake websites of different

 universities. Using these websites and also using SMSs

 through mobile phone etc., he used to contact small

 coaching centres located in different States throughout the

 country, alluring them for fake degrees and got these fake

 degrees/mark-sheets printed by Amjad. 3(vii). Money received from the sale of fake mark- sheets and fake degrees was used to be received in the

 bank account of one Archana Singh, resident of Noida. As

 . per the status report, investigation revealed transactions

 running into crores of rupees in the said bank account. All

 the accused persons used to do work in lieu of money. Said

 Archana Singh was arrested on 14.03.2021. 3(viii). During investigations, Mohd. Saleem provided

 details of 32 fake websites allegedly got prepared by him at

 the instance of Ainan Ahamed with help of other accused

 persons. He also provided the backup data of 19 fake

 websites, which contained PHP files, student/subject

 details, screenshots of posts, e-mail backup and database

 etc.

 3(ix). In view of the fraud and deceitful acts

 committed by the petitioners in preparing and selling fake

 and fictitious degrees/mark-sheets of various educational

 institutions/universities throughout the country by using

 various fake websites, the Superintendent of Police, Baddi,

 District Solan requested the Inspector General of Police,

 South, Shimla to handover the further investigation to the

 State Intelligence Department. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioners submitted

 that investigation in the matter is already complete. Challan

 stands presented before the Court of competent jurisdiction

 . way back on 01.04.2021 and the trial is underway. Despite

 repeated orders passed by this Court in different bail

 petitions moved by the petitioners and other co-accused

 persons, the respondent has not been able to render full

 cooperation and assistance for speedy conclusion of trial. Learned Deputy Advocate General opposed the

 bail petitions. She contended that serious allegations have

 been levelled against the petitioners. There is sufficient

 evidence available on record against them of creating many

 fictitious domains and fake websites of different universities

 & various educational institutions throughout the country. Using these fictitiously created domains and fictitiously

 created websites, the petitioners have duped the students

 as well as sold fake diplomas/degrees/mark-sheets on the

 domain of these universities and in this process, the

 petitioners while maligning the reputation of the

 universities/educational institutions, have illegally earned

 huge money. Learned Deputy Advocate General further

 submitted that trial is now underway and four witnesses ::: Downloaded on - 12/05/2023 20:35:20 :::CIS 8 remained to be examined. Therefore, at this stage, the

 petitioners may not be released on regular bail. 5. Observations

 . 5(i). Cr.MP(M) Nos. 718 and 705 of 2021 previously

 filed by the petitioners, respectively, were dismissed on

 merits vide order dated 18.05.2021 as it was projected on

 behalf of the respondent-State that:- the matter was still

 being investigated from various angles; that it was the case

 of fake degree racket of alarming magnitude; racket of this

 size cannot be a handy work of few; in all probability, there

 would be involvement of various others; that request has

 been made to the State Intelligence Department to come

 into picture for further investigation. However, the record produced by the respondent

 shows that no further investigation of the nature projected

 earlier was carried out by the respondent after the passing

 of order dated 18.05.2021. Police report under Section 173 Cr.PC was presented on 01.04.2021 and supplementary

 challan was also presented on 06.05.2021. No further

 investigation was carried out by the investigating agency. The ground on which previous bail petitions preferred by

 the petitioners were dismissed has lost its efficacy. 5(ii) Cr.MP(M) No. 1976 of 2022 was another bail

 petition moved by one of the petitioners herein. Taking note

 of the status report filed in that petition, which indicated

 . that 13 prosecution witnesses had already been examined

 and statements of 12 witnesses remained to be recorded,

 for which purpose, the matter was stated to be listed before

 the learned Trial Court on 12.10.2022 and also taking into

 consideration the fact that the petitioners were behind the

 bars since February 2021, the petitions were disposed of on

 23.09.2022 as withdrawn with the hope and expectation

 that the learned Trial Court shall make all endeavour to

 conclude the trial as expeditiously as possible. It would be

 appropriate to extract hereinafter the order dated

 23.09.2022, passed in Cr.MP(M) No. 1976 of 2022 :- Notice in the present petitions was waived by

 the respondent on 03.04.23 and 21.04.2023 respectively. Taking note of the averments made in the status report,

 following order was passed in these petitions on

 04.05.2023: - Today, when the bail petitions were taken up,

 . learned Deputy Advocate General placed on record fresh

 status report dated 11.05.2023. As per this status report,

 no PWs could be examined in the Court on 10.05.2023. One of the police official was stated to be bedridden and

 admitted in hospital at Delhi and other police official was

 stated to be on leave. So called independent witness

 Naveen is also yet to be examined. As per the status report,

 the respondent is not even aware of the address of his

 witness. The 4th witness is also stated to be bedridden. Learned Deputy Advocate General submitted that the

 prosecution does not intend to give up any of the remaining

 witnesses as testimonies of all these four witnesses are

 essential for the prosecution. This submission of learned

 Deputy Advocate General is at variance to the statement

 made before this Court on 04.05.2023 (extracted earlier). 5(iii) SLP (Crl.) No. 915 of 2023 ( Mohd Muslim @

 Hussain Vs. State (NCT of Delhi ) was decided on

 28.03.2023. Petitioner therein facing charge under Section

 29 of the Act and suffering incarceration for over seven

 years was granted bail on account of delay in trial. Hon'ble ::: Downloaded on - 12/05/2023 20:35:20 :::CIS 12 Court inter-alia reiterated that when stringent provisions

 are enacted, curtailing the provisions of bail and restraining

 judicial discretion, it is on the basis that investigation and

 . trials would be concluded swiftly. Pronouncements in

 (2021) 3 SCC 713 ( Union of India V. K.A. Najeeb ) and

 (2022) 6 SLR 382 (Vijay Madan Lal Chaudhary Vs

 Union of India) were also observed wherein it was

 concluded that statutory restrictions like "section 43-D(5) of

 UAPA cannot fetter a Constitutional Court's ability to grant

 bail on ground of violation of fundamental right" ..... "If the

 Parliament provides for stringent provision of no bail unless

 the stringent conditions are fulfilled, it is the bounden duty

 of the State to ensure that such trials get precedence and

 are concluded within a reasonable time at least before the

 accused undergoes detention for a period extending up to

 one and half of the maximum period of imprisonment

 specified for the concerned offence by law. (2022) 10 SCC

 51 ( Satender Kumar Antil Vs. CBI ) was also considered

 where prolonged incarceration and inordinate delay

 engaged the attention of Court vis-à-vis several enactments

 including Section 37 of NDPS Act. Some of the relevant

 paras from Mohd. Muslim 's case (supra) are as under:- 3. These observations have resonated, time and again,

 in several judgments, such as Kadra Pahadiya & Ors.
 v. State of Bihar and Abdul Rehman Antulay v. R.S.

 Nayak ; in the latter the court re-emphasized the right to
 speedy trial, and further held that an accused, facing

 prolonged trial, has no option: . 4 to 15....................... 16. In the most recent decision, Satender Kumar Antil v.
 Central Bureau of Investigation prolonged incarceration

 and inordinate delay engaged the attention of the court,
 which considered the correct approach towards bail,
 with respect to several enactments, including Section 37 NDPS Act. The court expressed the opinion that Section

 436A (which requires inter alia the accused to be
 enlarged on bail if the trial is not concluded within
 specified periods) of the Criminal Procedure Code , 1973

 would apply: 5(iv) In view of the fact that two of the remaining

 prosecution witnesses are bed ridden and the prosecution ::: Downloaded on - 12/05/2023 20:35:20 :::CIS 15 has now no clue about the address of the third witness (so

 called independent witness), and prosecution does not

 intend to give up any of its witnesses, it is not likely that

 . the trial can be concluded in near future. The petitioners

 are behind the bars w.e.f. 04.02.2021. They have completed

 more than two years in custody and are facing accusation

 under Sections 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120B IPC. While protecting the interest of the prosecution,

 individual liberty of the petitioners is also to be kept in mind. In case despite repeated directions of the Court emphasizing

 need of speedy trial, the prosecution is unable to conclude

 its evidence, the petitioners cannot be made to suffer. For all the above reasons, the bail petitions are

 allowed. Petitioners are ordered to be released on bail in

 the aforesaid FIR on their furnishing personal bond in the

 sum of Rs.1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh only) each with

 two local sureties each in the like amount to the

 satisfaction of the learned Trial Court having jurisdiction

 over the Police Station concerned, subject to the following

 conditions: - . (iv). The petitioners shall not make any
 inducement, threat or promise, directly or
 indirectly, to the Investigating Officer or any

 person acquainted with the facts of the case to
 dissuade him/her from disclosing such facts
 to the Court or any Police Officer. (v) The petitioners shall not contact, threaten or

 intimidate the victim/complainant and their
 family members in any manner whatsoever. (vi). In case the petitioners are put to trial, then

 they shall attend the trial on every hearing,
 unless exempted in accordance with law. (vii). Petitioners shall inform the Station House
 Officer of the concerned police station about
 their place of residence during bail and trial. Any change in the same shall also be
 communicated within two weeks thereafter.
 Petitioners shall furnish details of their

 Aadhar Cards, Telephone Numbers, E-mails,
 PAN Cards, Bank Account Numbers, if any. In case of violation of any of the terms &

 conditions of the bail, respondent-State shall be at liberty to

 move appropriate application for cancellation of the bail. It

 is made clear that observations made above are only for the

 purpose of adjudication of instant bail petition and shall

 not be construed as an opinion on the merits of the matter. Learned Trial Court shall decide the matter without being

 influenced by any of the observations made hereinabove. With the aforesaid observations, the present

 . petition stands disposed of, so also the pending

 miscellaneous application(s), if any. Jyotsna Rewal Dua
 Judge
 May 11, 2023

 R.Atal ::: Downloaded on - 12/05/2023 20:35:20 :::CIS