IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr.MP(M) No.1040 of 2020
 Reserved on: 14th September, 2020
 Decided on: 24th September, 2020 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- . Arvind Rajta

 .....Petitioner
 Versus

 Central Bureau of Investigation
 .....Respondent -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Coram

 The Hon'ble Ms. Jyotsna Rewal Dua, Judge

 Whether approved for reporting? 1 Yes

 For the Petitioner: Mr. Satyen Vaidya, Senior Advocate

 with Mr. Vivek Sharma, Advocate,
 through Video Conference. For the Respondent: Mr. Anshul Bansal, Special Prosecutor,
 through Video Conference. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Jyotsna Rewal Dua, Judge

 Where, based on alleged, prima facie, strong

 evidence, serious allegations of siphoning of student

 scholarship funds, cheating, criminal breach of trust,

 criminal misconduct, forgery, conspiracy and corruption

 etc. are levelled against a government official, then should

 he be granted regular bail on the ground that the

 investigating agency will take indefinite and indeterminate

 time, which may spread to years together for completely 1 Whether reporters of print and electronic media may be allowed to see the order? investigating the matter, considering the fact that all other

 government officials involved and challaned in the FIR were

 never taken into custody, is the main question raised in

 . this bail petition. 2. Gist of Allegations:- receipt of scholarships by the students under the State and

 Centrally Sponsored Schemes for SC/ST/OBC/MC

 students. Preliminary inquiry conducted by the State

 Project Officer revealed mis-appropriation of scholarship

 funds on large scale with complicity of officials working in

 the Education Department, Central Government, Banks

 and Private Institutions. It was further alleged in the FIR

 that income/caste certificates of students were not verified

 and did not appear to be genuine. Through single

 application, disbursement of scholarships under two

 different categories of SC & ST also came to light. Many ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:58 :::HCHP 3 loopholes were detected in 'hp-e-pass' software used by the

 State Education Department, whereby the same mobile and

 bank account numbers were accepted for more than one

 . application. Applications for scholarships were accepted

 without regard to any Aadhar number. Instructions issued

 by the Central Government for disbursing the scholarships

 through smart cards were not adhered to by the officials of

 the Education Department. Verification of scholarship

 applications was not carried out by the concerned

 Education Department officials. It was further alleged that

 the private educational institutions had opened bank

 accounts of the students near their institutes. Some of the

 bank accounts in Chandigarh and Haryana were alleged to

 be dubious. 80% of total scholarship money disbursed was

 granted through private educational institutions. 2(ii). Pursuant to notification dated 20.03.2019, the

 FIR dated 16.11.2018 was entrusted to CBI and case

 RC0962019A0002 was registered on 07.05.2019 at CBI,

 ACB, Shimla under Sections 409 , 419 , 465 , 466 and 471 of

 the Indian Penal Code against unknown persons. After

 entrustment of FIR, CBI carried out investigations. Noticing

 the complicity of public servants of Directorate of Higher

 Education, Bank Officials and Officials of the private ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:58 :::HCHP 4 educational institutions, Section 120-B of IPC and 13(2)

 read with 13(1)(c) and 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of

 Corruption Act, 1988 , were added in the case. CBI

 . conducted searches of 22 private institutions, which had

 disbursed the scholarships, w.e.f. 13.05.2019 to

 16.05.2019 at 22 locations in the States of Himachal

 Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Union Territory of

 Chandigarh. Following table gives the macro view of post- matric scholarship funds alleged to have been illegally

 siphoned off through private institutions:- being conducted institution-wise. 22 private educational

 institutions in all are under investigation. Investigation of

 one of the institute, i.e. K.C. Group of Institutions,

 Pandoga, District Una, has been completed. Charge-sheet

 for embezzlement of scholarship funds of Rs.13.19 crores

 has already been filed in the Court of learned Special Judge ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:58 :::HCHP 5 (CBI), Shimla on 30.03.2020 by keeping the investigation

 open under Section 173(8) of the Code of Criminal

 Procedure. Investigation regarding second institute of K.C.

 . Group of Institutions at Nawanshahr, Punjab is being

 carried out. According to the status report, the investigation

 has revealed that scholarships were claimed by these

 institutes without admission of students; documents of

 students, who had taken admission in K.C. Group of

 Institutions, Pandoga, District Una, were also used in K.C.

 Group of Institutions Nawanshahr, Punjab, for claiming

 scholarship; Some of the General Category students of K.C.

 Group of Institutions, Pandoga, District Una, were shown

 as students of SC category in K.C. Group of Institutions

 Nawanshahr, Punjab for claiming scholarship; Students

 shown as belonging to SC category in K.C. Group of

 Institutions, Pandoga, District Una during the years 2013-

 14 and 2014-15, have been shown as belonging to ST

 students in K.C. Group of Institutions, Nawanshahr,

 Punjab, during the years 2015-16 and 2016-17; Many of

 the students were found non-existent during investigations. Scholarship funds of Rs.11.33 crores were disbursed to

 K.C. Group of Institutions, Nawanshahr, Punjab. Education, Himachal Pradesh, Shimla, at the relevant time. He was also the dealing hand of the Post-Matric

 Scholarship Branch. 2(iv)(b). According to the status report, investigations

 revealed that:- basis of the documents, which to his knowledge were

 false and forged. iii). It is further alleged that the petitioner got the

 payments of K.C. Group of Institutions approved

 despite having knowledge of the fact that most of the

 mobile numbers mentioned in 'hp-e-pass' were of

 seven to nine digits and streams of courses, names of

 institutes, category of students and dates of birth were

 also changed. The changes were allegedly made to

 avoid detection by 'hp-e-pass'. iv). It has also been alleged that the petitioner

 received 10% amount of the scholarship claim as bribe

 from K.C. Group of Institutions. v). It has also been alleged that petitioner's wife was

 shown as partner in ASA Marketing Solutions, having

 a share of 33.33%, allegedly owned by two other

 partners, who are also the owners of eight institutes

 including four National Institute of Electronics &

 Information Technology (NIELIT) Centres at Chamba,

 Nurpur, Una, Nahan and two ASAMS Education Group ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:58 :::HCHP 8 at Fatehpur & Nahan and two SDS Education Group

 at Una and Chamba. Allegations are that the

 scholarship funds have been transferred to these eight

 . institutes including NIELIT Centres at Una, Kangra,

 Chamba and Nahan, which statedly were not affiliated

 with any University or State/Central Government

 Department. The scholarship funds from these

 institutes were eventually transferred to ASA

 Marketing Solutions, in which wife of the petitioner

 had 33.33% shares. In all, the scholarship amount of

 Rs.29.80 crores had been transferred to these eight

 institutes during 2013 to 2017 by the Directorate of

 Higher Education, Himachal Pradesh. It has also been

 alleged that during search carried out at the

 residential premises of the petitioner on 19.09.2019,

 documents relating to accounts of ASA Marketing

 Solutions and the payment details of scholarship

 funds to ASA Marketing Solutions were also

 discovered. 3. Events:- filing of charge-sheet was withdrawn by the petitioner. His

 third bail petition was dismissed by the learned Special

 Judge (CBI) on 22.06.2020. 3(iii). Besides the petitioner, one Sh. Hitesh Gandhi,

 Vice President of K.C. Group of Institutions, was also

 arrested on 03.01.2020. He is also in custody ever since

 and has moved bail application No.Cr.MP(M) No.1162 of

 2020, which is being considered separately. One other

 co-accused Sh. Surinder Pal Singh, working as Cashier at

 the relevant time in the Central Bank of India, also arrested

 on 03.01.2020, was enlarged on bail by a Co-ordinate

 Bench of this Court vide order dated 11.06.2020 passed in

 Cr.MP(M) No.409 of 2020. 4. Submissions:- Superintendent Grade-II, Scholarship Branch,

 Directorate of Higher Education, Shimla. (ii) Smt. Mala Mehta, the then DDO-cum-Assistant
 Director, Scholarship Branch, Directorate of
 Higher Education, H.P., Shimla. Directorate of Higher Education, H.P., Shimla. (iv) Sh. Surinder Mohan Kanwar, the then
 Superintendent Grade-I-cum-DDO, Scholarship
 Branch, Directorate of Higher Education, H.P.,
 Shimla. . (v) Sh. Ashok Kumar, the then DDO, Scholarship

 Branch, Directorate of Higher Education, H.P.,
 Shimla. (vi) Sh. Virender Kumar, the then Superintendent
 Grade-I-cum-DDO, Scholarship Branch,
 Directorate of Higher Education, H.P., Shimla. Learned Senior Counsel contended that the

 investigating agency is carrying out investigation in a

 discriminatory manner. Charges of conspiracy have been

 levelled and challan has been filed for the same offences

 against all the six accused officials of Directorate of Higher

 Education. But it is only the petitioner, who has been made

 the scapegoat and arrested, whereas other five accused

 persons/officials of Education Department, who were

 working as Superintendents or Drawing & Disbursing

 Officers in the Scholarship Branch, Directorate of Higher

 Education, Shimla even though have been challaned for the

 common offences faced by all six accused persons, were not

 taken into custody. In case the investigating agency did not

 feel the necessity to arrest the other five officials of the

 Education Department, who were also responsible for ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:58 :::HCHP 12 disbursing the scholarship funds as well as for various

 other acts in question, then there was no occasion even to

 arrest the petitioner, much less any further need to

 . continue to keep him behind the bars for an indefinite

 period. 4(i)(d). Learned Senior Counsel also submitted that

 there is no charge against the petitioner for possessing

 assets disproportionate to his income. His wife has not been

 made an accused. He has also highlighted the fact that the

 bank official Surinder Pal Singh, who is also an accused in

 the FIR, has already been enlarged on bail in Cr.MP(M)

 No.409 of 2020. 4(i)(e). Citing various judgments in support of his

 prayer for release of the petitioner on bail, learned Senior

 Counsel submitted that the petitioner, aged about 42 years,

 is a suspended government servant. He has landed property

 in the State. He has deep roots in the society and will not

 flee from justice. He is not in a position to tamper with the

 prosecution evidence or influence the prosecution

 witnesses. He will abide by all the terms & conditions,

 which may be imposed upon him by this Court and will join

 the investigation as and when the respondent directs him to

 do so. 4(ii). Learned Special Prosecutor for the CBI opposed

 the bail plea on the grounds that:- No timeline can be given for completion of investigation. As

 of now, investigation into K.C. Group of Institutions at

 Pandoga, District Una, has been completed and charge- sheet regarding that has already been presented before the

 competent Court on 30.03.2020 while keeping open the

 investigation under Section 173(8) Cr.PC. 4(ii)(b). Investigation conducted so far has practically

 proved the petitioner to be guilty of grave socio-economic

 offence as not only substantial financial loss has been

 caused to the State Government, but the students of

 weaker sections of society have also been deprived of their

 legitimate due. In the event of conviction of the petitioner,

 severe punishment has been prescribed in law. 4(ii)(c). The respondent has strong apprehension that in

 case of enlargement on bail, the petitioner will tamper with

 the evidence, influence the witnesses and can also abscond. In support of these submissions, reliance upon

 various judgments was placed. 5. Observations:- 5(ii). 22 private institutes were to be investigated by

 the CBI for unearthing illegal disbursement of post-matric

 scholarship funds amounting to Rs.2,09,93,53,223/- by

 private educational institutions, out of which, at present,

 investigations into K.C. Group of Institutions, Pandoga,

 District Una, for embezzlement of scholarship amount of

 Rs.13.19 crore has already been completed. Charge-sheet

 in that regard stands filed before the competent Court on ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:58 :::HCHP 15 30.03.2020 by keeping further investigation open under Section 173(8) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The

 respondent is also stated to have investigated into the

 . illegal disbursement of scholarship amounts to the tune of

 Rs.29.80 crores in eight institutes, from where the funds

 were statedly transferred to the accounts of ASA Marketing

 Solutions and about illegal disbursement of scholarship

 funds amounting to Rs.11.33 crores to another K.C. Group

 of Institutions, Nawanshahr, Punjab. 5(iii). Investigation into 17 other private educational

 institutes is yet going on. CBI has not been able to indicate

 any timeline whatsoever about the completion of

 investigation. It has already taken about a year and half for

 completing the investigation of one private institute, i.e.

 K.C. Group of Institutions at Pandoga, District Una. It is yet

 to formally complete the investigation into K.C. Group of

 Institutions at Nawanshahr, Punjab. 5(iv). Present is not a case where multiple FIRs were

 registered with respect to different institutes. One FIR has

 been registered involving all the private educational

 institutes. To obviate the compulsion under Section 167(2)

 Cr.PC, final report has been presented on 30.03.2020

 under Section 173(2) Cr.PC only regarding K.C. Group of ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:58 :::HCHP 16 Institutions, Pandoga, District Una by keeping the

 investigation open under Section 173(8) Cr.PC. Even in this challan, twelve persons have been

 . named as accused, out of which six belong to Directorate of

 Higher Education, Himachal Pradesh, including the

 petitioner. Five accused persons, who were Drawing &

 Disbursing Officers posted in different capacities in the

 Directorate of Higher Education at the relevant time and

 responsible for various transactions in issue, have not been

 arrested. This is despite the fact that all of them are facing

 the same FIR for the same offences and it has been alleged

 that all of them had conspired together. 5(v)(1). In (2017) 13 SCC 751, titled State of Bihar

 and another Versus Amit Kumar @ Bachcha Rai,

 Hon'ble Supreme Court held that bail cannot be granted in

 a mechanical manner to the alleged kingpin of 'Bihar

 Toppers Scam' on the ground that accused was in custody

 for long time. Socio-economic offences constitute a class

 apart and need to be visited with different approach in

 matter of bail. 5(v)(2). Hon'ble Apex Court in (2013) 7 SCC 466, titled

 Nimmajadda Prasad Versus CBI, while observing that

 white collar crimes were on the rise affecting development of ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:58 :::HCHP 17 the country as a whole, held that while granting bail, the

 Court has to keep in mind the nature of accusations,

 nature of evidence in support thereof, severity of

 . punishment on conviction, character of accused,

 circumstances peculiar to the accused, reasonable

 possibility of securing presence of accused at trial,

 reasonable apprehension of witnesses being tempered with,

 larger interests of public/State and other similar

 considerations. At this stage, it is not necessary to establish

 guilt of accused beyond reasonable doubt. Economic

 offences need to be viewed seriously. 5(v)(3). In (2013) 7 SCC 439, titled Y.S. Jagan Mohan

 Reddy v. CBI , Hon'ble Apex Court held that economic

 offences need to be visited with different approach. It was

 held as under vide paras 34 and 35:- 5(v)(4). In (2018) 11 SCC 46, titled Rohit Tandon

 Versus Directorate of Enforcement, involving Prevention

 of Money Laundering Act, 2002 including Section 45

 . thereof, which has overriding effect on general provisions of Cr.PC , it was held that economic offences having deep- rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of public funds

 need to be viewed seriously and are considered as grave

 offences affecting the economy of the country as a whole. It

 was also expounded that at the stage of considering the bail

 application, it requires to be seen whether the accused had

 requisite mensrea. A balance has to be maintained between

 a judgment of acquittal and conviction and an order

 granting bail. The duty of Court at this stage is not to weigh

 the evidence meticulously but to arrive at a finding on the

 basis of broad probabilities. 5(v)(5). It will also be appropriate to take note of (2012)

 1 SCC 40, titled Sanjay Chandra Versus Central

 Bureau of Investigation, wherein Hon'ble Apex Court

 dealing with the issue of grant of bail in an economic

 offence of formidable magnitude, observed that deprivation

 of liberty must be considered a punishment unless it is

 required to ensure that the accused would stand trial when

 called upon and that Courts owe more than verbal respect ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:58 :::HCHP 19 to the principle that punishment begins after conviction

 and that every man is deemed to be innocent until duly

 tried and found guilty. Object of bail is neither punitive or

 . preventive. Hon'ble Court sounded a caveat that it would be

 improper for any Court to refuse bail as a mark of

 disapproval of former conduct whether an accused has

 been convicted for it or not or to refuse bail to an

 unconvicted person for the purpose of giving him taste of

 imprisonment as a lesson. Discretionary jurisdiction to

 grant bail to an accused pending trial has to be exercised

 with care and caution by balancing valuable right of liberty

 of individual and interest of society in general. Seriousness

 of charge is no doubt one of the relevant consideration

 while examining bail application, but it is not the only

 factor. The grant or denial of bail is regulated to a large

 extent by the facts and circumstances of each case. Detention in custody of undertrial prisoner for an indefinite

 period would amount to violation of Article 21 of the

 Constitution. It was held that it would be contrary to the

 concept of personal liberty enshrined in the constitution

 that any person should be punished in respect of a matter,

 on which he has not been convicted and should be deprived

 of his liberty only on the belief that he will temper with ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:59 :::HCHP 20 witnesses if set free save in extraordinary circumstances. Seriousness of charge is not the only factor to be considered

 while deciding the bail petitions. Paras 21 to 24, 39 and 46

 . of the judgment are as under:- These principles were reiterated in (2017) 5 SCC

 218, titled Manoranjana Singh Versus CBI. 5(v)(6). In AIR 2019 SC 5272, titled P. Chidambaram

 v. Central Bureau of Investigation, CBI had opposed the

 bail plea on the grounds of:- (i) flight risk; (ii) tampering

 with evidence; and (iii) influencing witnesses. The first two

 contentions were rejected by the High Court. But bail was

 declined on the ground that possibility of influencing the ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:59 :::HCHP 22 witnesses in the ongoing investigation cannot be ruled out. Hon'ble Apex Court after considering (2001) 4 SCC 280,

 titled Prahlad Singh Bhati v. NCT, Delhi and another ; . (2004) 7 SCC 528, titled Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan and another; (2005) 2 SCC 13, titled

 Jayendra Saraswathi Swamigal v. State of Tamil Nadu

 and (2005) 8 SCC 21, titled State of U.P. through CBI v. Amarmani Tripathi, observed as under:- 29. FIR was registered by the CBI on 15.05.2017. The appellant
 was granted interim protection on 31.05.2018 till 20.08.2019.
 Till the date, there has been no allegation regarding
 influencing of any witness by the appellant or his men directly
 or indirectly. In the number of remand applications, there was

 . no whisper that any material witness has been approached

 not to disclose information about the appellant and his son. It
 appears that only at the time of opposing the bail and in the
 counter affidavit filed by the CBI before the High Court, the
 averments were made that "....the appellant is trying to

 influence the witnesses and if enlarged on bail, would further
 pressurize the witnesses....". CBI has no direct evidence
 against the appellant regarding the allegation of appellant
 directly or indirectly influencing the witnesses. As rightly
 contended by the learned Senior counsel for the appellant, no

 material particulars were produced before the High Court as to
 when and how those two material witnesses were
 approached. There are no details as to the form of approach of
 those two witnesses either SMS, email, letter or telephonic
 calls and the persons who have approached the material

 witnesses. Details are also not available as to when, where
 and how those witnesses were approached. 31. It is to be pointed out that the respondent - CBI has filed
 remand applications seeking remand of the appellant on
 various dates viz. 22.08.2019, 26.08.2019, 30.08.2019,
 02.09.2019, 05.09.2019 and 19.09.2019 etc. In these
 applications, there were no allegations that the appellant was

 trying to influence the witnesses and that any material
 witnesses (accused) have been approached not to disclose
 information about the appellant and his son. In the absence of
 any contemporaneous materials, no weight could be attached

 to the allegation that the appellant has been influencing the
 witnesses by approaching the witnesses. The conclusion of the
 learned Single Judge "...that it cannot be ruled out that the

 petitioner will not influence the witnesses directly or
 indirectly....." is not substantiated by any materials and is
 only a generalised apprehension and appears to be

 speculative. Mere averments that the appellant approached
 the witnesses and the assertion that the appellant would
 further pressurize the witnesses, without any material basis
 cannot be the reason to deny regular bail to the appellant;
 more so, when the appellant has been in custody for nearly
 two months, co-operated with the investigating agency and the
 charge sheet is also filed. 32. The appellant is not a "flight risk" and in view of the conditions
 imposed, there is no possibility of his abscondence from the
 trial. Statement of the prosecution that the appellant has
 influenced the witnesses and there is likelihood of his further
 influencing the witnesses cannot be the ground to deny bail to ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:59 :::HCHP 24 the appellant particularly, when there is no such whisper in
 the six remand applications filed by the prosecution. The
 charge sheet has been filed against the appellant and other
 co-accused on 18.10.2019. The appellant is in custody from
 21.08.2019 for about two months. The co-accused were
 already granted bail. The appellant is said to be aged 74
 years and is also said to be suffering from age related health

 . problems. Considering the above factors and the facts and

 circumstances of the case, we are of the view that the
 appellant is entitled to be granted bail." 5(v)(7). In 2019 SCC OnLine SC 1549, titled P.

 Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement , after

 taking note of various precedents, it was deduced that basic

 jurisprudence relating to a bail remains the same inasmuch

 as the grant of bail is the rule and refusal is the exception

 so as to ensure that the accused has the opportunity of

 securing fair trial. Irrespective of nature and gravity of

 charge, the ultimate consideration will have to be on case to

 case basis on the facts involved therein and securing the

 presence of accused to stand trial. Para 23 of the judgment

 reads as under:- 5(vi). Petitioner is not the sole accused in the charge- sheet filed by the respondent. Eleven other persons are also

 named therein as accused. Five of them besides the

 petitioner are officials of State Education Department and

 were posted in Scholarship Branch of Directorate of Higher

 Education at the relevant time. They were discharging the

 duties as Superintendents and Drawing & Disbursing

 Officers in this Branch and were responsible for various

 acts, which allegedly facilitated the alleged illegal disbursal

 of scholarship funds to the private educational institutions. All accused persons including the petitioner and five

 officials of education department are alleged to have

 conspired in commission of alleged offences. But, out of ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:59 :::HCHP 26 government officials, it is only the petitioner who was

 arrested. 5(vii). Petitioner is not facing the charge of having

 . assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. His

 wife has not been made an accused. 5(viii). Out of 22 private educational institutions stated

 to be involved in the scam, respondent as yet has completed

 the investigation only of one private institute. Respondent is

 unable to give any timeline about completion of

 investigation in respect of remaining institutes, though it

 has come in the status report that the respondent has

 conducted searches and seized material and records from

 concerned 22 private institutions. 5(ix). Present is a case where 22 institutes are

 involved in one FIR and not in multiple FIRs. Charge-sheet

 under the FIR qua one of the institute already stands filed

 through by keeping the investigation open under Section

 173(8) Cr.PC. This was to obviate the compulsion under

 Section 167(2) Cr.PC. 5(x). Even if present is a case of socio-economic

 offence of serious magnitude and respondent may have

 strong evidence about involvement of the petitioner, yet

 'gravity can only beget length of sentence' provided in law, ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:59 :::HCHP 27 after the trial. Grant of bail cannot be thwarted merely by

 asserting that offence is grave and therefore, petitioner

 should remain in custody till the investigation of all 22

 . private educational institutes is completed, regarding

 timeline of which, respondent apparently has no clue. 5(xi). Even in cases involving economic offences,

 where there is strong, prima facie, evidence against the

 accused, it cannot be said by way of an abstract principle

 that bail should invariably be refused. It is impossible to

 hold that an accused should not be granted bail during

 pendency of whole of investigation. 5(xii). The principle laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court

 in Sanjay Chandra's case, supra, and in various other

 pronouncements cannot be lost sight of that punishment

 begins after conviction and that every man is deemed

 innocent until duly tried and proved guilty. Detention of the

 petitioner, an under-trial prisoner, for an indefinite period

 would amount to violation of Article 21 of the Constitution. Consequences of pre-trial detention are grave. 5(xiii). The offending acts are already complete and

 reflected as such in the records. As per status report,

 voluminous record has already been seized by CBI during

 raids conducted by it in 22 private institutes, though ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:59 :::HCHP 28 investigation is still going on. In such situation, no purpose

 is going to be served by keeping the petitioner in judicial

 custody. . 5(xiv). Investigation should not be carried out

 indefinitely and forever without any regard to time,

 considering the interests of all involved. Nonetheless it is

 open to the respondent to continue to investigate into the

 matter, however, for this reason, petitioner cannot be

 permitted to incarcerate as a pre-trial prisoner. His liberty

 enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution is also

 required to be protected. 5(xv). Respondent while opposing the bail plea besides

 submitting that strong evidence is available against the

 petitioner, also expressed its apprehension that petitioner

 after grant of bail is likely to abscond or temper with

 evidence or will influence the witnesses. It cannot be

 presumed that petitioner will flee justice or will influence

 the investigation/witnesses. No material in support of these

 apprehensions has been placed on record. As per status

 report, CBI has already conducted searches at 22 private

 educational institutions and seized voluminous physical

 and electronic record. Premises of petitioner have also been

 searched. Petitioner is in custody w.e.f. 03.01.2020. He has ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:59 :::HCHP 29 already been suspended from government service. It is not

 disputed that he is a local resident and owns immovable

 properties in the State. The apprehensions expressed by

 . respondent can be taken care of while imposing conditions

 for enlargement on bail. In the given facts and

 circumstances of the case, continued custodial

 interrogation of the petitioner is not necessary. Enlargement of petitioner on bail subject to stringent

 conditions will not pose any threat to society. Therefore, present bail petition is allowed and

 the petitioner is ordered to be released on bail in the

 aforesaid FIR on his furnishing personal bond in the sum of

 Rs.25,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty Five Lacs only) with two

 local sureties, each in the like amount to the satisfaction of

 the learned trial Court/Special Judge (CBI), Shimla, subject

 to the following conditions:- investigating agency about the place, where he

 shall reside during the investigations and the
 trial. Any change in his place of residence

 shall be immediately notified by him to the
 investigating agency. (iv). Petitioner shall furnish a cell number to the
 investigating officer on which he can be

 contacted at any time. He shall also ensure
 that the number remains active and switched
 on at all times. He shall submit details of his

 Aadhar Card and other proofs of identity with

 the investigating agency. investigation in any manner whatsoever. (vi). Petitioner shall not make any inducement,

 threat or promise directly or indirectly to the

 investigating officer, to the witnesses or to any
 other person acquainted with the facts of the

 case to dissuade him from disclosing such
 facts to the Courts or any Police Officer.
 Petitioner shall not maintain any direct or
 indirect contact with officials of bank/
 education department/private educational
 institutions concerned with the case. Petitioner shall not deal with any record ::: Downloaded on - 24/09/2020 20:19:59 :::HCHP 31 relevant to the case. He shall not prejudice the
 proceedings in the matter. (vii). Petitioner shall attend trial on each and every
 hearing unless exempted by the Court, in

 . accordance with law. Any breach, violation or non-compliance of the

 above conditions will be viewed seriously and will give right

 to the investigating agency to seek cancellation of bail. Any

 unwarranted conduct or action of the petitioner

 necessitating recall of bail be brought to the notice of the

 Court. In case of any genuine difficulty being faced due to

 any of the above conditions, it shall be open to the

 petitioner/respondent to move an application seeking

 modification thereof either before this Court or after

 cognizance of the matter before the learned Trial Court as

 the case may be. Learned Trial Court may impose any other

 condition considered appropriate as and when necessary. It is made clear that observations made above

 are only for the purpose of adjudication of instant bail

 petition and shall not be construed as an opinion on the

 merits of the matter. Learned Trial Court shall decide the

 matter without being influenced by any of the observations

 made hereinabove. With the aforesaid observations, the present

 petition stands disposed of, so also the pending

 miscellaneous applications, if any. . Copy dasti.