A counter affidavit has been filed on behalf of opposite party no. 2/complainant and the same is taken on record. Heard learned counsel for the applicant, learned A.G.A. for the State as well as learned counsel for the opposite party no. 2 and perused the record. This Criminal Misc. Anticipatory Bail Application under Section 438 Cr.P.C. has been moved by the applicant after rejecting his anticipatory bail application by the order dated 28.09.2022 passed by learned Additional District and Sessions Judge, Faizabad seeking Anticipatory Bail in case crime no. 139 of 2022, under section 120-B IPC and Section 67 of Information Technology (Amendment) Act, Police Station Tarun, District Faizabad/Ayodhya. In this case, FIR was lodged on 06.06.2022 by the father of the victim against Raju Khan @ Irfan Ahmad and Jitendra Chauhan (present applicant) for the alleged offence under Sections 313 , 376 , 500 , 504 , 506 , 120-B IPC, Sections 3 / 4 of POCSO Act and Section 67 of IT Act making allegation inter-alia that in the marriage of present applicant i.e. Jitendra Chauhan, his friend Raju Khan @ Irfan Ahmad made a friendship with the victim (daughter of the informant) and by luring her started making physical relation with her and also made her obscene video and taken her inappropriate photographs. Thereafter on the pretext of her video and photographs, co-accused Raju Khan @ Irfan Ahmad started blackmailing and calling her at different places. As such, he used to commit rape on her extending threat to make her video and recording viral, on account of which she became pregnant in the year 2018. It is also the case of the prosecution that co-accused Raju Khan @ Irfan Ahmad, in order to fulfill his lust, made all effort to create hurdle in the marriage of the victim by adopting different modus-operandi and this fact came into light in the knowledge of family members of the victim when they have settled the marriage of the victim. After the engagement of the victim with her prospective husband, co-accused Raju Khan @ Irfan Ahmad had sent her obscene video and photographs to the present applicant Jitendra who made the it viral by sending the same to several other people. The said photographs have been produced by learned A.G.A. for perusal of the Court. The main substratum of argument of Mr. Shobh Nath Pandey, learned counsel for the applicant is that no such video or photographs have been made viral from the mobile of the applicant. Learned counsel for the applicant after advancing his argument at some length gave up his challenge and confined his submission and submits that he does not want to press the instant anticipatory bail application on merits, however, liberty be provided to the applicant to move an appropriate application under Section 439 Cr.P.C. before the concerned Court below in light of the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Satender Kumar Antil vs Central Bureau of Investigation and another , 2021 SCC Online SC 922. On the other hand learned A.G.A. as well as learned counsel appearing on behalf of the complainant/opposite party no. 2 submits that in case applicant does not want to press this anticipatory bail application on merits, he has no objection to such prayer made on behalf of the applicant. Mr. C.L. Yadav, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the complainant relying upon the statement of the victim under Section 161 and 164 Cr.P.C. as well as statement of independent witnesses namely Rajesh Chauhan, Munshi Lal and Shiv Poojan submits that the applicant has hatched a conspiracy and in collusion with co-accused Raju Khan @ Irfan Ahmad, who has made obscene video of the victim for last five years and sent the same on the mobile of the applicant who in turn made it viral and ruining the life of the applicant/victim. I find that the victim in her statement under Section 161 and 164 Cr.P.C. disclosed the entire happening with her. After culmination of investigation, charge-sheet dated 01.08.2022 has been submitted against the applicant for the offence under Section 120-B IPC and Section 67 of IT Act, as such, prima-facie, case is made out against the applicant. The offence as per prosecution case is heinous in nature. Having regard to the statement made by learned counsel for the applicant at the Bar, the relief as sought for by the applicant by means of this anticipatory bail application, at this stage, is hereby refused. Considering the aforesaid alternative prayer made on behalf of the applicant, the instant anticipatory bail application is disposed of with liberty to the applicant to move an application under Section 439 Cr.P.C. before the concerned court below. In case the applicant applies for bail under Section 439 Cr.P.C., the bail application of the applicant shall be disposed of by the courts below in the light of judgement of the Apex Court in the matter of Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). Order Date :- 22.11.2022
 
saurabh