(Judgement of this Court was made by S.MANIKUMAR, J.)

	
	Civil Miscellaneous Appeal is directed against the Final Order No.455 of 2007, dated 20.04.2007, passed by Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT), South Zonal Bench, Chennai 600 006. The Tribunal, while setting aside the Order-in-Original No.31 of 2000, dated 31.03.2000, passed by the Commissioner of Customs, Madras-1, directed him, to give option to the 1st respondent, for redemption of gold seized, against payment of fine. 2.	Facts leading to the appeal are that on 17.09.1999, the 1st respondent, who arrived by Singapore Airlines Flight SQ 410/17.09.99, at Anna International Airport, Chennai, was intercepted by the Officers of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Chennai. He showed his Customs declaration form, indicating the contents of his baggage, as 4 dozen of Martin Shirts and 12 numbers of small calculators and miscellaneous goods. When questioned, as to whether, he was carrying any gold, his answer was 'No'. However, on examination of his baggage, 111 broken bits of gold biscuits, totally weighing 2548.3 grams, were found and recovered from certain folding scissor boxes and stapler pin boxes. In addition to other miscellaneous items, they were seized. Gold was valued at Rs.10,34,355/- and other goods were valued at Rs.41,117/-. All the above, were in excess of the declared items. 3.	The Commissioner of Customs (Air), Chennai, appellant, has further submitted that according to Customs Notification No.171/94 (as amended by Notification No.31/2003-Customs), the passenger eligible for import of gold should have stayed abroad for a period of six months. But in the case on hand, the 1st respondent had stayed abroad only for a week. According to the appellant, the respondent had deliberately attempted to smuggle gold, by concealment and without declaration to customs. 4.	Material on record discloses that the 1st respondent was arrested on 18.09.1999 and remanded to judicial custody. A show cause notice was issued to the 1st respondent, calling upon him, to show cause, as to, 	
	(i) Why 111 broken bits of gold biscuits totally weighting 2548.3 grams valued at Rs.10,34,355/- (M.V.) should not be confiscated under Section 111(d)(i)(l) and (m) of the Customs Act, 1962 . (ii) Why the material objects such as aluminum foil, black gum tape, rose brand folding scissors packets, MAX stapler pin packets, and the suitcase used for concealing abovesaid gold bits, should not be confiscated under Section 119 of the Customs Act, 1962. (iii) Why the other assorted goods totally valued at Rs.41,117/- (CIF) seized along with the abovesaid 111 gold bits, should not be confiscated under Section 111(d)(i)(l) and (m) of the Customs Act, 1962, and (iv) Why personal penalty under Section 112(a) of the Custom Act, 1962, should not be imposed on Shri.Paraman Sinnasamy. 5.	Though the 1st respondent had acknowledged the show cause notice on 03.01.2000, no reply was received till 02.03.2000, and hence, the adjudicating authority granted, personal hearing on 15.03.2000. After hearing the 1st respondent and considering the material on record, Clause 3 of the Foreign Trade (Exemption from application of rules in certain cases) Order, 1993, issued under Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992 , r/w. Customs Notification No.171/94, dated 30.09.1994 (as amended), provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 , the Commissioner of Customs, Madras-1, the adjudicating authority, has passed an Order-in-Original No.31 of 2000, dated 31.03.2000, by which, he had ordered absolute confiscation of 111 gold bits weighing 2548.3 grams, valued at Rs.10,34,355/- (MV), under Section 111(d)(i)(l) and (m) of the Customs Act, 1962 , r/w. Section 3(3) of the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulations) Act, 1992. 6.	The Commissioner of Customs, Madras-1, has further ordered confiscation of the assorted goods, valued at Rs.41,117/- (CIF), under Section 111(d)(i)(l) and (m) of the Customs Act, 1962 , r/w. Section 3(3) of the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulations) Act, 1992. 7.	However, the Commissioner of Customs has allowed the 1st respondent to redeem the same, on payment of Rs.20,500/-, within 30 days of receipt of the Order in Original, dated 31.03.2000. He has also ordered that the duty at the appropriate rate, would be chargeable, on redemption of goods, stated supra. 8.	The Commissioner of Customs, Madras-1, has further ordered, absolute confiscation of the material objects, viz., folding scissors boxes, stapler pin boxes, aluminium foils, black gum tape and the suit case, used for concealing and carrying the aforesaid gold bits, under Section 119 of the Customs Act, 1962. 9.	Keeping in mind, inter alia, that the 1st respondent was detained under COFEPOSA Act , for six months, the Commissioner has imposed a penalty of Rs.50,000/-, under Section 112(a) of the Customs Act, 1962. 10.	Being aggrieved by the Order-in-Original No.31 of 2000, dated 31.03.2000, the 1st respondent has filed Appeal No.C/589/2000, before CESTAT, Chennai. After hearing the parties, by observing that there is no need for absolute confiscation of the goods, and under Section 125 of the Customs Act, 1962, option for redemption against payment of fine is available to the 1st respondent, in respect of gold also, and that there is no bar against such option, by reason of the goods, being an item notified under Section 123 of the Act, or for any other reasons, vide Final Order No.455 of 2007, dated 20.04.2007, CESTAT, Chennai, held that the 1st respondent ought to have been given the option to redeem gold. So saying, CESTAT, Chennai, has set aside the Order-in-Original No.31 of 2000, dated 31.03.2000, passed by the Commissioner of Customs, Madras-1 and issued positive directions to him, to give option to the 1st respondent, to redeem gold, after determining a reasonable amount of redemption fine. Being aggrieved by the same, instant Civil Miscellaneous Appeal is filed. 11.	Record of proceedings shows that while entertaining the appeal, this Court has framed the following substantial question of law,
	Whether the Tribunal finding that under Section 125 of the Customs Act, 1962, the appellant ought to have been given the option of redemption against payment of fine, when Section 125(1) of the Act, also incorporated a word, May pertaining prohibited goods, an option of confiscation power to be exercised by the officer concern, is correct in law? 12.	Supporting the substantial questions of law, Mr.V.Sundareswaran, learned counsel appearing for the appellant, reiterated the averments, extracted supra, and placing reliance on the decisions in Gyanchand Jain v. Assistant Collector of Central Excise, Madras reported in 1986 (25) ELT 163 (Mad. ), Garg Woollen Mills (P) Ltd., v. Addl . Collector of Customs, New Delhi reported in 1998 ( 104) ELT 306 (SC) and T.Elavarasan v. Commissioner of Customs (Airport), Chennai reported in 2011 (266) ELT 167 (Mad.), submitted that, on the facts and circumstances of the instant case, when gold is attempted to be smuggled, and when violations of Notification No.171/94, dated 30.09.1994 (as amended), was apparent on the face of record, gold seized is liable to be confiscated. He further submitted that when the adjudicating authority, has considered the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 , and Notification, stated supra, order of the Tribunal, giving positive directions to the appellant, to release gold, accepting fine, is against the scheme of the Customs Act, 1962 and therefore, the order impugned before us, requires to be interfered with. 13.	Learned counsel for the appellant further submitted that the observations of CESTAT that Section 125 of the Customs Act 1962 does not discriminate between gold and other goods, is not correct. He further submitted that the statute confers discretion to be exercised by the authority and the Tribunal cannot direct the said authority, to exercise discretion, in favour of the respondent, in which case, there is nothing for the competent authority to exercise his discretion. He further submitted that use of the word,  may in Section 125 of the Act, confers discretion on the adjudicating authority to pass appropriate orders, depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case. 14.	Placing reliance on a decision of the Calcutta High Court in Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) v. Uma Shankar Verma reported in 2000 (120) ELT 322 (Cal.), Mr.V.Sundareswaran, learned counsel for the appellant further submitted that when goods are prohibited, then discretion is with the Customs authority to confiscate the same, without giving any option, to pay fine, in lieu thereof and when the goods are not prohibited, then the Customs Authority, has no option, but to allow an option to the owner, to pay a fine in lieu of confiscation. According to him, in the case of improper importation of gold, (being prohibited), option, as to whether to release the same, on payment of redemption fine or order for absolute confiscation, is with the exclusive jurisdiction of the concerned authority and on the facts and circumstances of the instant case, when after considering Section 125 of the Customs Act, 1962, a detailed order of confiscation has been passed, on merits, it would not be appropriate to CESTAT, Madras, to remand the matter once again, to consider option. 15.	Taking this Court through the impugned order of CESTAT, dated 20.04.2007, learned counsel for the appellant submitted that when statute confers discretion, on the adjudicating authority, to decide, as to whether, gold seized has to be released or not, positive directions given by the Tribunal, to the adjudicating authority to release the same, in favour of the respondent, is wholly erroneous and contrary to the scheme of the Act. 16.	Learned counsel for the appellant further submitted that when it is the categorical case of the department that the intention of the 1st respondent was to smuggle gold bits, prohibited under law, besides commission of offences, directions of CESTAT, Madras, to exercise discretion under Section 125 of the Customs Act, 1962, in favour of the 1st respondent, amounts to the Tribunal, exercising the jurisdiction, which the Customs Act, 1962 , has conferred on the adjudicating authority. Inasmuch as there is a categorical allegation of attempt to smuggle gold and to that effect, there are sufficient material on record, allowing the importer to redeem gold and other goods, on payment of fine, would amount to granting bonanza or profits to an illegal attempt of import, which the Tribunal has failed to consider. 17.	To sustain the impugned order of CESTAT, dated 20.04.2007, Mr.M.Abdul Nazeer, learned counsel appearing for the respondent submitted that the voluntary statement, dated 18.09.1999, of the 1st respondent, narrated in the sequence of events, which led to seizure of 111 gold bits and other assorted goods, has been retracted and therefore, the same cannot be treated as admission. Referring to Section 2(33) of the Customs Act, 1962, which defines "prohibited goods", he submitted that import of gold, is not prohibited and therefore, order of CESTAT, Madras, does not require intervention. 18.	Learned counsel for the 1st respondent further submitted that the observation of the Tribunal that under Section 125 of the Customs Act, 1962, option for redemption against payment of fine is available to the 1st respondent, even in respect of gold and that there is no bar, against such option, by reason of the goods, being an item, notified under Section 123 of the Act or for any other reasons, is not liable to be set aside and therefore, the direction issued by CESTAT, Madras, to the Commissioner, to give option to the 1st respondent to redeem golds seized, after determining a reasonable amount of redemption fine, is not violative of the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 and for the abovesaid reasons, prayed for dismissal of the appeal. Heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and perused the materials available on record. 19.	Earlier in W.A.No.377 of 2016, dated 28.07.2016, on similar lines, we have considered a case, under Section 111(d) of the Customs Act, 1962, dealing with provisional release. Instant case deals with Section 125 of the customs act, 1962. On the scope and powers of the customs authority, under the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 , we have considered relevant provisions, notifications issued and answered the issues called for. We are of the view that extract from the said judgment , would be relevant for this case also, with changes, mutatis-mutandis,
	38. Before adverting to the rival contentions of both parties, it is relevant to have a cursory look at the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 . As per Section 2(33) of the Customs Act, prohibited goods means, any goods the import or export of which is subject to any prohibition under this Act or any other law for the time being in force but does not include any such goods in respect of which the conditions subject to which the goods are permitted to be imported or exported have been complied with. 39. Positively, prohibited goods are defined, as goods, import or export of which, should be subject to any prohibition under this Act or any other law for the time being in force. Negatively, Section 2(33) of the Act, also states that goods are not prohibited goods, when import or export of which, does not include any such goods, in respect of which, the conditions subject to which the goods are permitted to be imported or exported have been complied with. The expression subject to any prohibition under this Act or any other law for the time being in force and compliance of the conditions, subject to which, the goods are permitted to be imported or exported, are the determining factors, to understand and to give effect to the meaning of the words, prohibited goods. 40.	Literal interpretation of the words, prohibited goods and the contention that gold is not notified and therefore, to be released, would cut down the wide ambit of the inbuilt prohibitions and restrictions in the Customs Act, 1962 and any other law for the time being in force. (i) In Poppatlal Shah v. State of Madras reported in AIR 1953 SC 274, the Supreme Court held that, It is settled rule of construction that to ascertain the legislative intent all the constituent parts of a statute are to be taken together and each word, phrase and sentence is to be considered in the light of the general purpose and object of the Act itself. (ii) It is well settled that a statute must be read as a whole and one provision of the Act should be construed with reference to other provisions in the same Act, so as to make a consistent enactment of the whole statute. Such a construction has the merit of avoiding any inconsistency or repugancy either within the statute or between a Section or other parts of the statute. [Ref. Raj Krishna v. Bonod Kanungo reported in AIR 1954 SC 202]. (iii) In The State of Bihar v. Hira Lal Kejriwal reported in AIR 1960 SC 47, the Supreme Court, at Paragraph 6, held that,
	To ascertain the meaning of a section it is not permissible to omit any part of it: the whole section should be read together and an attempt should be made to reconcile both the parts. ......The first part gives life to that Order, and, therefore, the acts authorised under that Order can be done subsequent to the coming into force of the Ordinance.	......The second part appears to have been enacted for the purpose of avoiding this difficulty or, at any rate, to dispel the ambiguity. (iv) In State of W.B., v. Union of India reported in AIR 1963 SC 1241, the Apex Court held that in considering the expression used by the Legislature, the Court should have regard to the aim, object and scope of the statute to be read in its entirety. (v) In State of Uttar Pradesh v. Dr.Vijay Anand Maharaj reported in AIR 1963 SC 946, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as follows: (viii) If the words are precise and unambiguous, then it should be accepted, as declaring the express intention of the legislature. In Ku.Sonia Bhatia v. State of U.P., and others reported in 1981 (2) SCC 585 = AIR 1981 SC 1274, the Supreme Court held that a legislature does not waste words, without any intention and every word that is used by the legislature must be given its due import and significance. (ix) In Balasinor Nagrik Co-operative Bank Ltd., v. Babubhai Shankerlal Pandya reported in 1987 (1) SCC 606, the Supreme Court, at Paragraph 4, held as follows: (xi) In Balram Kumawat v. Union of India reported in 2003 (7) SCC 628, the Supreme Court held that, Contextual reading is a well-known proposition of interpretation of statute. The classes of a statute should be construed with reference to the context vis-a-vis the other provisions so as to make a consistent enactment of the whole statute relating to the subject-matter. The rule of "ex visceribus actus" should be resorted to in a situation of this nature. (xii) In State of Gujarat v. Salimbhai Abdulgaffar Shaikh reported in 2003 (8) SCC 50, the Supreme Court held that,	
	Broadly speaking, therefore, an appeal is a proceeding taken to rectify an erroneous decision of a Court by submitting the question to a higher Court....... ........It is well settled principle that the intention of the legislature must be found by reading the Statute as a whole. Every clause of Statute should be construed with reference to the context and other clauses of the Act, so as, as far as possible, to make a consistent enactment of the whole Statute. It is also the duty of the Court to find out the true intention of the legislature and to ascertain the purpose of Statute and give full meaning to the same. The different provisions in the Statute should not be interpreted in abstract but should be construed keeping in mind the whole enactment and the dominant purpose that it may express. (xiii)	In A.N.Roy Commissioner of Police v. Suresh Sham Singh reported in AIR 2006 SC 2677, the Apex Court held that, 
	It is now well settled principle of law that, the Court cannot change the scope of legislation or intention, when the language of the statute is plain and unambiguous. Narrow and pedantic construction may not always be given effect to. Courts should avoid a construction, which would reduce the legislation to futility. It is also well settled that every statute is to be interpreted without any violence to its language. It is also trite that when an expression is capable of more than one meaning, the Court would attempt to resolve the ambiguity in a manner consistent with the purpose of the provision, having regard to the great consequences of the alternative constructions. (xiv) In Visitor Amu v. K.S.Misra reported in 2007 (8) SCC 594, the Supreme Court held that, It is well settled principle of interpretation of the statute that it is incumbent upon the Court to avoid a construction, if reasonably permissible on the language, which will render a part of the statute devoid of any meaning or application. The Courts always presume that the legislature inserted every part thereof for a purpose and the legislative intent is that every of the statute should have effect. The legislature is deemed not to waste its words or to say anything in vain and a construction which attributes redundancy to the legislature will not be accepted except for compelling reasons. It is not a sound principle of construction to brush aside words in a statute as being in apposite surplusage, if they can have appropriate application in circumstances conceivably within the contemplation of the statute. 41. In the light of the decisions and in the context of what is observed above, the expression, in section 2(33) of the Act, "prohibition under this Act" or any other law for the time being, has to be examined with the other provisions in the Customs Act, 1962 . Section 2(39) of the Act, defines Smuggling in relation to any goods, which means, any act or omission which will render such goods liable to confiscation under section 111 or section 113 . Chapter IV of the Act , deals with prohibition on importation and exportation of goods. Section 11 deals the power to prohibit importation or exportation of goods and the said Section is extracted hereunder: 42.	Chapter IV-A deals with detection of illegally imported goods and prevention of the disposal thereof. Section 11A speaks about illegal import, intimated place, notified date and notified goods. Section 11A(a) of the Act, defines, illegal import and the same is extracted hereunder: 43.	Chapter XIII deals with searches, seizure and arrest. Section 110 of the Act, deals with seizure of goods, documents and things and the same reads as follows: 45.	Chapter XIV deals with the confiscation of goods and conveyances and imposition of penalties. Section 111 , dealing with confiscation of improperly goods, etc., read as follows: 46. Section 112 deals with the penalty for improper importation of goods, etc., and the same is extracted hereunder: 47.	Smuggling in relation to any goods is forbidden and totally prohibited. Failure to check the goods on the arrival at the customs station and payment duty at the rate prescribed, would fall under the second limb of section 112(a) of the Act, which states omission to do any act, which act or omission, would render such goods liable for confisaction under Section 111 of the Act. Sub section (b) to Section 111 of the Act covers the persons involved. 48. Section 123 of the Act, deals with burden of proof in certain cases and the same is extracted hereunder: 49. Section 125 of the Act, speaks about the option to pay fine in lieu of confiscation and the said Section is extracted hereunder: 50. Section 126 of the Act, deals with, on confiscation, property to vest in Central Government. The said Section reads thus,
	(1) When any goods are confiscated under this Act, such goods shall thereupon vest in the Central Government. (2) The officer adjudging confiscation shall take and hold possession of the confiscated goods.
	............ 53.	..........One of the important aspects to be taken note by the authorities while exercising their powers under Section 125 of the Act is whether, import of goods is prohibited, within the meaning of Section 2(33) of the Customs Act, 1962 and where, in the Customs Act or any other law for the time being in force, such prohibition is mentioned? what are all the things to be prohibited and whether the goods imported or exported are in contravention of the subject matters, enumerated in the Customs Act, 1962 or any other law for the time being in force, are prohibited goods? At this juncture, the authorities also duty bound to consider, as to whether, for the goods imported/exported, there is prohibition or restriction, in the Customs Act, 1962 or any other law for the time being in force. ............. 55.	In the light of the above, let us consider the decisions, relied on by the learned counsel appearing for both parties. 56. In N.K.Bapna v. Union of India reported in 1992 (60) ELT 13 (SC), the petitioner therein was the Managing Director of Company, engaged in the business of manufacture and production of plastic compounds, plastic films and sheets and plastic chemicals. A detention order was passed, under section 3(1) of the Conservation of Foreign Exchange & Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974, with a view to prevent him from abetting the smuggling of goods. Consignment of Ethyle Hexanol (EHA) was transported to bonded warehouses, after assessment to duty in October-November, 1989 and subsequently, the goods were removed from the bonded warehouse, without the permission of the proper officer. Referring to Sections 111(J) and 243 of the Customs Act and Section 2(39) , which defines, Smuggling, the Hon'ble Apex Court held that, 
	The third point made by Sri Sen is that once goods are cleared by the customs authorities, they are not liable to confiscation unless the order granting clearance is reversed in appropriate proceedings. He places reliance for this proposition on Union of India v. Jain Shudh Vanaspathi [1992 (1) Scale 34], affirming the decision of the Delhi High Court in Jain Shudh Vanaspati Ltd., and Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. , [1982] 10 E.L.T. 43 (Del.) (to which one of us was a party). There was some discussion before us as to whether this Court has confirmed the decision of the High Court on the above point or left it open in para 4 of the judgment. We do not think it is necessary for for us to enter into this controversy. That was a case where the goods had been completely cleared accepting the plea of the importer that their import was not prohibited. The High Court held that so long as this acceptance stood the goods were not liable to confiscation. We are here concerned with the question whether the goods are liable to confiscation under s.111(j) and this question has to be answered in the affirmative in view of the language of the section. The conclusion here that the goods are liable to confiscation does not go behind or ignore the effect of the order of clearance, as in that case . It accepts the fact of clearance and proceeds on the footing that the goods, rightly cleared under s.59 , have been clandestinely removed from the warehouse within the meaning of s.59 . The decision cited by learned counsel is, therefore, of no assistance to him.
The above reported case, is relied on by the respondents, for the purpose that the goods, clandestinely imported into the country, for evading the assessment of duty, are liable for confiscation. 57. In Union of India v. Lexus Exports Pvt. Ltd. , reported in 1994 (71) ELT 348 (SC), a learned single Judge directed release of the seized goods. On appeal by the revenue, a Hon'ble Division Bench directed export of the goods, during the pendency of adjudicatary proceedings. While testing the correctness of the same, the Hon'ble Supreme Court, at Paragraphs 2 and 3, held as follows: (2) Validity of the order imposing penalty. (3) Failure to give option to the appellants for redeeming the goods on payment of such fine as may be determined by the Collector of Customs in lieu of confiscation. Placing reliance on Section 125(1) of the Customs Act, 1962, a contention has been made in the reported case that when the Additional Collector of Customs has the discretion to give option for redemption, he should have addressed himself to the said issue and passed orders. 21.	Reading of the abovesaid judgment shows that at that point of time, zip fasteners were imported freely. Having regard to the said fact, prevalent at that point of time, the Hon'ble Supreme Court, by observing that presumably the Additional Collector of Customs had assumed that he was bound to confiscate the goods and because of that, he had not adverted to the aspect of exercising his discretion to give an option to the appellant's therein, to pay a fine, in lieu of confiscation. On the facts and circumstances of the reported case, the Hon'ble Supreme Court ordered as hereunder: 22.	Though in Hargovind Das K.Joshi 's case, the Hon'ble Apex Court has remitted the matter to the Commissioner of Customs, for the limited purpose, as to whether or not, to give an option to the appellant therein, to redeem the confiscated goods on payment of such fine, as may be considered appropriate by him, in lieu of confiscation and further directed that it would be open to the concerned officer to take a decision one way or the other, in accordance with law, considered appropriate on the circumstances of the case, after hearing the appellants therein, in the instant case, if we may say so, usurping the powers of the adjudicating authority, the Tribunal has observed that there is no need for absolute confiscation of the goods. As rightly contended by the learned counsel for the appellant, the Tribunal has arrogated the powers of the adjudicating authority, directed the adjudicating authority, to release gold, by exercising option in favour of the respondent. 23.	When it is the case of the appellant that 2548.3 grams of gold were concealed and not declared, in contravention of Section 77 of the Customs Act, 1962 and that there was a violation of Section 111(d)(i)(l) and (m) of the Customs Act, 1962 , r/w. Section 3(3) of the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulations) Act, 1992 and when reference has been made to the Custom Notification No.117/92-Cus., dated 01.03.1992, as amended from time to time and when there was a categorical finding of the adjudicating authority that the respondent had deliberately attempted to smuggle 2548.3 grams of gold, by concealing and without declaration of Customs, for monetary consideration and that gold bits seized were liable for confiscation, under Section 111(d)(i)(l) and (m) of the Customs Act, 1962 , r/w. Section 3(3) of the Foreign Trade (Development & Regulation) Act, 1992 and when the 1st respondent was also detained under the COFEPOSA Act , for six months and when the Commissioner of Customs (AIRPORT), had imposed a penalty of Rs.50,000/- (Rupees fifty thousand only), with Section 112(a) of the Customs Act, 1962, it is unfortunate that without due consideration to the above facts and statutory provisions and the categorical finding of the adjudicating authority, the Tribunal has observed that there is no need for absolute confiscation of the goods. At this juncture, we deem it fit to extract the opening sentence of Paragraph 3 of the order, impugned before us, 
	After considering the grounds of this appeal and the submissions of learned SDR, we are not convinced of the need to have ordered absolute confiscation of the goods. 24. In Garg Woollen Mills (P) Ltd., v. Addl . Collector of Customs, New Delhi reported in 1998 (104) ELT 306 (SC), the department contended that serviceale garments were concealed, amongst multilated garments and they were seized. Confiscation was ordered. Referring to Section 125 of the Customs Act, 1962, release of goods was sought for. After considering the manner, in which, goods were sought to be imported, at Paragraph 5, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as follows: 25. In Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) v. Uma Shankar Verma reported in 2000 (120) ELT 322 (Cal.), the Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) challenged the order of a trial Judge, who allowed release of gold on payment of redemption fine. Reading of the above judgment shows that the said order has been passed, on the suggestion of the learned counsel for the department, appellant therein. While testing the correctness of the same, a Hon'ble Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court, at Paragraph 23, held as follows: 26. Uma Shankar Verma 's case (cited supra), cannot be made applicable to the case on hand, to the assessee, for the reason that, release of goods, in the said case, has been made, on consent. One of the contentions raised before us, in the instant case, is that gold is not a prohibited item and therefore, there can be an order to release the same, on payment of redemption fine. In the above reported case, while adverting to the substantial question of law, "Whether gold is a prohibited item within the meaning of the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 ?" and after considering the statutory provisions under the Customs Act, 1962 and Foreign Trade (Development and Regulations) Act, 1992 and public notices in No.51, dated 27.10.1997 and No.54, dated 04.09.1997, the Hon'ble Division Bench of Calcutta High Court has categorically held that gold is a prohibited item, which comes within the first part of Section 2(33) of the Customs Act. While considering the contention of the 1st respondent herein that gold is not a prohibited item, it is worthwhile to extract Paragraphs 5 to 19 of the judgment in Uma Shankar Verma 's case (cited supra), as follows: 6. Section 5 of the said Act provides that the Central Government may from time to time formulate and announce by notification in the Official Gazette the export and import policy and may also in like manner amend that policy. Pursuant to and in furtherance of the said provisions Export Import Policy for the year 1997-2000 had been taken, Clause 4.1 whereof reads thus - Item 2 provides for ITC (HS) Classification of Import and Export which contained as under - 710812.00
Other Unwrought forms 
Restricted
Not permitted to be imported except against a licence or in accordance with a Public Notice issued in this behalf. Import permitted against Special Import Licence (SIL) 7. Section 11 of the Customs Act, 1962 empowers the Central Government to prohibit importation and exportation of goods. 8. Section 111 which deals with the power of the Commissioner to confiscate the goods inter alia provided for confiscation of improperly imported goods. Section 111(d) of the Customs Act, 1962 reads thus - 9. Section 125 of the Customs Act, 1962 provides for option to pay fine in lieu of confiscation which is to the following effect :- 10. A bare perusal of the said provision leaves no manner of doubt that if the goods are prohibited then the option is with the Customs Authority to confiscate without giving any option to pay fine in lieu thereof but when the goods are not prohibited then the Customs Authority has no other option but to allow grant of an option to the party to pay a fine in lieu of confiscation. 11. The principal question which, thus, arises for consideration is as to whether gold is a prohibiited item ? A Public Notice No. 51, dated 27th October, 1997 was issued which reads thus - 12. The same was further amended by a Public Notice No. 54 dated 4th November, 1997 which is to the following effect :- 13. It is, therefore, evident that the gold could be imported only against a Special Import Licence or by the agencies authorised by the Reserve Bank of India. 14. The entire case of the writ petitioner/respondent is that they have purchased gold from Standard Chartered Bank which was meant for sale. The said question is essentially a question of fact and as such we need not consider the same in this proceeding as such a question will have to be determined by the statutory authority. 15. Having regard to the provisions of the Customs Act as also the 1992 Act, we are of the opinion that keeping in view the fact that a legal fiction has been created in terms of Section 3(3) of the said 1992 Act, there cannot be any doubt whatsoever, that gold would come within the purview of a prohibited item. A legal fiction as is well known must be giving its full effect. In Gajraj Singh and Ors., v. State Transport Appellate Tribunal and Ors. , [1997 (1) SCC 650], it has been held as under - 16. In Commissioner of Income Tax, Madras v. Urmila Ramesh [1998 (3) SCC 6], the Apex Court observed :- We are unable to agree with the submissions of Shri Ranbir Chandra that reference to the language of Section 41(2) in Cambay Electric case was only incidental. It is evident from the meaning and effect of Section 41(2) of the Act in that case, which it did. The two provisions namely Section 10(2)(vii) second proviso of the 1922 Act and Section 41(2) of the Act both create a legal fiction, difference in language notwithstanding." 17. In Aluminium Industries Ltd., v. Collector of Central Excise [1998 (99) ELT 486 (SC) = 1998 (9) SCC 404, it has been held as under: - 18. In this view of the matter the definition of prohibited goods contained in Sub- Section 2(33) of the said Act pales into insignificance. 19. For the reasons aforementioned there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that gold is a prohibited item which comes within the first part of Section 125 of the Customs Act." 27. In Punnilathu Bappu Navas v. Union of India reported in 2006 (202) ELT 430 (Bom.), 10,144.20 gms. of gold was seized under Panchanama. Statement under Section 108 of the Customs Act, 1962, was recorded. Taking note of the policy adopted by the Central Government that import of gold beyond 5 Kgs., was not permissible, revisional authority therein, under the Customs Act, 1962 , while exercising discretion, allowed gold, weighing 5 Kgs., on payment of redemption fine, amounting Rs.5,00,000/- plus duty, at the normal baggage and that the balance gold was ordered to be confiscated. He also imposed penalty. When the said order was tested, by way of a Writ Petition, under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and though the revenue, before the Writ Court contended that the entire gold ought to have been confiscated, taking note of the policy of the Central Government, permitting import gold of 5 Kgs., a Hon'ble Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court, has negatived the challenge of the petitioner therein. 28.	Facts of the reported case is inapposite to the case on hand. That was a case, where the discretion was exercised, having regard to the policy prevailed, at that point of time. Whereas, in the case on hand, the appellant has contended that there was a deliberate attempt to smuggle gold. Merely because, discretion has been exercised by the revisional authority, in the reported case, it cannot be contended that in every case, where there is seizure of gold imported, in contravention of the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 , or any other law for the time being in force, redemption should be allowed, as a matter of right. 29.	In Commissioner of Customs (AP), Mumbai v. Alfred Menezes reported in 2009 (242) ELT 334 (Bom.), the only question raised before the Bombay High Court, was whether, exercise of jurisdiction by the adjudicating authority, who had given option to the 1st respondent therein, to redeem prohibited goods, even though they were liable for confiscation, was right or not? The Tribunal upheld the order of the adjudicating authority. By observing that there is discretion on the authority and as the Tribunal had upheld the same and taking note of the word, May under Section 125(1) of the Customs Act, the Bombay High Court, declined to interfere with the discretion exercised by the adjudicating authority. 30.	On the facts and circumstances of the instant case, besides testing the correctness of the Order-in-Original, as to whether, the adjudicating authority has exercised his discretion, satisfying the twin test, which we have extracted in the foregoing paragraphs of the judgment, we are also called upon to answer, as to whether the Tribunal can issue any positive directions to the adjudicating authority to exercise discretion, under Section 125 of the Act, in favour of the 1st respondent herein, to give option to redeem the gold, after determining the redemption fine amount. When exercise of discretion is conferred on the adjudicating authority to decide, as to whether, such discretion should be exercised in favour of the importer or any other person, falling under Section 112(b) of the Customs Act, 1962 and when in the case of smuggling or attempted smuggling, goods have been imported, in contravention of the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 or any other law, for the time being in force, and when a prima facie case of attempt to smuggle the goods, is made out, it is not open to the Tribunal to issue any positive directions to the adjudicating authority, to exercise option in favour of the 1st respondent. 31. In Suresh Bhosle v. Commissioner of Customs (Preventive), Kolkata reported in 2009 (246) ELT 77 (Cal.), adjudicating order was passed on 07.04.2007. Assailing the correctness, contentions have been made that import of gold was allowed free, under the Export-Import Policy 2002-07, as amended and hence, gold was not prohibited goods, within the meaning of the Customs Act, 1962 but was only dutiable goods, within the meaning of the said Act, and under such circumstances, the adjudicating authority ought to have exercised his discretion, to allow redemption of the gold seized, upon payment of redemption fine, to be fixed by the adjudicating authority, in terms of Section 125 of the Customs Act, 1962. On the above facts and submissions, the Calcutta High Court, having found that the adjudicating authority has not offered any reasons in the order of confiscation, as to why, discretion was not exercised, set aside the order of confiscation, and remanded the matter to the competent authority. 32.	Going through Suresh Bhosle 's case (cited supra), it could be deduced that there was no argument advanced by the revenue, as to what are prohibited goods, in terms of Section 2(33) of the Customs Act, 1962 and therefore, with due respect, we are of the view that the Hon'ble Division Bench only considered the Export-Import Policy 2002-07, during the relevant period that import of gold was allowed free and answered the issue. 33. In T.Elavarasan v. Commissioner of Customs (Airport), Chennai reported in 2011 (266) ELT 167 (Mad.), a learned single Judge of this Court considered a case, where gold chain was brought from Singapore, without due declaration. Contending inter alia that the gold was not a prohibited item, provisional release was sought for. Writ Court directed release of gold, on payment of custom duty and redemption fine, subject to adjudication proceedings. 34. When T.Elavarasan 's case, was tested in W.A.No.582 of 2011, a Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court, vide order, dated 01.04.2011, while modifying the order of the learned single Judge, directed the respondent therein to deposit 50% duty of the value of the goods, instead of depositing the entire customs duty and redemption fine and on such deposit being made, the goods shall be released forthwith, in favour of the respondent therein. Review filed against the Division Bench order, came to be dismissed on 25.04.2011. With due respect, in the decision of the Hon'ble Division Bench, the issue, as to whether, prohibited goods and other miscellaneous goods, attempted to be smuggled, can be released or not, has not been argued in the light of Section 2(33) of the Customs Act, 1962 and decided. 35. In Aiyakannu v. Joint Commissioner of Customs reported in 2012 (281) ELT 223, holder of a Srilankan Passport, was found to have concealed 10 gold bars with foreign markings, each weighing 1165 grams, valued at Rs.4,78,081/-. There was an attempt to smuggle gold into India, by way of concealing the same, inside the zip bag covered with black colour adhesive carbon tapes. The adjudicating authority came to the conclusion that the gold bars so imported are liable for confiscation, under Section 111(d) ,(l) and (m) of the Customs Act, 1962 and accordingly, passed an Order-in-Original. The Joint Commissioner rejected the same. Thereafter, a writ petition was filed. Following the decision of the Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court in Commissioner of Customs v. Samynathan Murugesan reported in 2009 (247) ELT 21 (Mad.), a learned single Judge, at Paragraphs 8 and 9, held as follows: 36. In Fortis Hospital Ltd., v. Commissioner of Customs, Import reported in 2015 (318) ELT 551 (SC), show cause notice issued under Section 124 of the Customs Act, 1962 was for confiscation and penalty. Nothing was stated about the payment of duty. But ultimately, final order was passed, including a direction to pay the customs duty. The department attempted to justify the order under Section 125 of the Customs Act, 1962, On the said facts, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that direction for payment of customs duty, could not be issued under Section 124 of the Customs Act, 1962 and more so, as it was not proposed in the show cause notice. Fortis Hospital Ltd. ,'s case (cited supra), would not lend any support to the case on hand. 37. In Rajaram Bohra v. Union of India reported in 2015 (322) ELT 337 (Cal.), the question considered by the Hon'ble Division Bench of Calcutta High Court, was whether, the adjudicating authority has exercised his option under Section 125 of the Customs Act, 1962, according to the rules of reasons and Justice. After considering the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in UPSRTC v. Md. Ismail reported in 1991 (3) SCC 239 and on the facts and circumstances of the reported case, the Hon'ble Division Bench of Calcutta High Court, held that whenever discretion is vested, the administrative authority shall do well to atleast briefly record the reasons, why they have chosen to exercise the discretion, in one way or the other. 38.	In the case on hand, before the adjudicating authority, the appellant, inter alia, has contended that,
	8. Shri M.Abdul Nazeer, Advocate on behalf of Shri P.Sinnasamy submitted that his client has not committed the offence and that at Chennai Airport the baggage of another passenger Shri Babu Chinnasamy got mixed with his baggage; that the mahazar was in English which he did not know; that he was not explained about the contents of the mahazar and he wanted cross-examination of mahazar witnesses and Officers who recorded his statement. 9. On 21.03.2000 Shri Abdul Nazeer, counsel for the accuscd cross-examined Shri.A.Elumalai, Mahazar witness, who interalia staled that there was only one passenger by name Shri.Sinnasamy alongwith the baggage at the Table; that he did not remember the passenger disowning the goods; that the mahazar was read over to him and he has not affixed his signature out of fear. Shri.K.P.H.Paul Mohamed, Senior Intelligence Officer, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence stated that he had recorded the statement of Shri.P.Sinnasamy who said that he had gone to Singapore to see his son, who was studying there; that the baggage containing gold was given to him by one Shri.Mustafa to be handed over to someone who will identify him at Chennai Airport; that the accused did not say that the baggage did not belong to him and it was not true to state that the statement was given under duress. Shri.Thomas Augustian, Intelligence Officer, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Chennai stated that he identified Shri.P.Sinnasamy when the passengers were coming out after immigration clearance; that none of the officers brought any person by name Shri Babu Chinasamy; that the Officers were looking for Shri.P.Sinnasamy only and nobody else. The counsel submitted that Shri.P.Sinnasamy is undergoing COFEPOSA detention and is very poor and requested for leniency. 39.	After careful consideration of the entire records, the adjudicating authority, vide order, dated 31.03.2000, in Order-in-Original No.31 of 2000, has recorded the findings as hereunder: ORDER
	Taking into account the facts of the case and the submissions made, I order absolute confiscation of the 111 gold bits weighing 2548.3 grams value Rs.10,34,355/- (MV) under Section 111 (d) , (i), (1) and (m) of the Customs Act, 1962 , read with Section 3(3) of the Foreign Trade (Development & Regulation) Act 1992. I also order confiscation of the other assorted goods valued at Rs.41,117/- (CIF) under Section 111 (d) , (1) & (m) of the Customs Act 1962 read with the Foreign Trade (Development & Regulation) Act 1992. However, under Section 125 of the Customs Act, 1962, I allow the passenger to redeem the same on payment of a redemption fine of Rs.20,500/- (Rupees Twenty Thousand Five Hundred Only ) within 30 days of receipt of this order. Duty at the appropriate rate is chargeable on redemption of the goods. I order absolute confiscation of material objects viz., folding scissors boxes, stapler pin boxes, aluminium foils, black gum tape and the suit case used for concealing and carrying the aforesaid gold bits under Section 119 of the Customs Act 1962. Keeping in mind intcralia the submission that the passenger has been detained under the COFEPOSA Act for 6 months, I impose on Shri P.Sinnasamy & penalty of Rs.50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand Only), under Section 112(a) of the Customs Act, 1962. 40.	Thus, after recording a categorical finding of attempted smuggling of 2548.3 gms., of gold, by concealment and without declaration to the customs, the adjudicating authority has exercised his discretion to order absolute confiscation of gold, and some of the material objects used for concealing and carrying gold bits, under Section 119 of the Customs Act, 1962. The mere fact that the adjudicating authority has allowed to redeem other assorted goods, on payment of redemption fine of Rs.20,500/- and charged duty, at the appropriate rate and at the same time, ordered absolute confiscation of gold and other material objects used for concealing, itself is the indicative, as to how, the adjudicating authority has exercised his discretion in the matter of release of goods seized, and liable for confiscation. Moreover, while exercising the discretion in the abovesaid manner, for two sets of goods, the adjudicating authority, in the forgoing paragraphs, in the Order-in-Original No.31 of 2000, dated 31.03.2000, has given reasons, as to why, gold seized is liable for confiscation. On the facts and circumstances of the case, we are of the view that it cannot be contended that there is any failure on the part of the adjudicating authority to exercise his discretion, under Section 125 of the Customs Act, 1962. 41.	In the case on hand, when discretion is conferred on the adjudicating authority, under Section 125 of the Customs Act, 1962, as to whether, gold and other goods seized, should be confiscated absolutely or be permitted to be redeemed on payment of fine, on the facts and circumstances of the case, and considering the statutory provisions and notification, he has ordered absolute confiscation of gold and other goods, used for import and released certain goods on payment of fine and duty. Exercise of discretion has been interfered with by the Tribunal, with a specific direction to give option for redemption, in which event, there is no choice left to the adjudicating authority to act. He has no freedom or liberty to act, according to own will and that he has been compelled to exercise discretion and his power, without control, other than his own judgment and in this context, let us consider, what the Hon'ble Apex Court has said on exercise of discretion, 42.	Explaining as to how, discretionary power has to be exercised, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sant Raj and another v. O.P.Singla and others reported in (1985) 2 SCC 349, held that "whenever, it is said that something has to be done, within the discretion of the authority, then that something has to be done, according to the rules of reason and justice and not according to private opinion, according to law and not humour. It is to be not arbitrary, vague and fanciful but legal and regular and it must be exercised within the limit to which an honest man to the discharge of his office ought to find himself. Discretion means sound discretion guided by law. It must be governed by rule, not by humour, it must not be arbitrary, vague and fanciful. 43. In Fasih Chaudhary v. Director General, Doordarshan and others reported in 1989 1 SCC 89, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that exercise of discretion should be legitimate, fair and without any aversion, malice or affection. Nothing should be done which may give the impression of favouritism or nepotism. While fair play in action in such matters is an essential requirement, free play in the joints is also a necessary concomitant for an administrative body functioning in an administrative sphere or quasi-administrative sphere as the present one. 44.	While considering, a litigation arising out of Bangalore Development Authority Act, 1976 , the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Bangalore Medical Trust v. B.S.Muddappa and others reported in (1991) 4 SCC 54, held that "discretion is an effective tool in administration. It provides an option to the authority concerned to adopt one or the other alternative. But a better, proper and legal exercise of discretion is one where the authority examines the fact, is aware of law and then decides objectively and rationally what serves the interest better. When a statute either provides guidance or rules or regulations are framed for exercise of discretion then the action should be in accordance with it. Even where statutes are silent and only power is conferred to act in one or the other manner, the Authority cannot act whimsically or arbitrarily. It should be guided by reasonableness and fairness. The legislature never intends its authority to abuse the law or use it unfairly. Where the law requires an authority to act or decide, 'if it appears to it necessary' or if he is 'of opinion that a particular act should be done' then it is implicit that it should be done objectively, fairly and reasonably. In a democratic set up the people or community being sovereign the exercise of discretion must be guided by the inherent philosophy that the exercise of discretion is accountable for his action. It is to be tested on anvil of rule of law and fairness or justice particularly if competing interests of members of society is involved. Decisions affecting public interest or the necessity of doing it in the light of guidance provided by the Act and rules may not require intimation to person affected yet the exercise of discretion is vitiated if the action is bereft of rationality, lacks objective and purposive approach. Public interest or general good or social betterment have no doubt priority over private or individual interest but it must not be a pretext to justify the arbitrary or illegal exercise of power. It must withstand scrutiny of the legislative standard provided by the statute itself. The authority exercising discretion must not appear to be impervious to legislative directions. The action or decision must not only be reached reasonably and intelligibly but it must be related to the purpose for which power is exercised. No one howsoever high can arrogate to himself or assume without any authorisation express or implied in law a discretion to ignore the rules and deviate from rationality by adopting a strained or distorted interpretation as it renders the action ultra virus and bad in law. 45. In Shiv Sagar Tiwari v. Union of India and others reported in 1997 1 SCC 444 the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the discretionary power has to be exercised to advance the performance, to subserve for which the power exists. 46. In A.P. Aggarwal v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi reported in (2000) 1 SCC 600, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under: 47. In Indian Railway Construction Co. Ltd. v. Ajay Kumar reported in (2003) 4 SCC 579, at paragraph 13 to 15, the Hon'ble Supreme Court explained the manner in which discretionary power has to be exercised, while discharging administrative function. In the above judgment, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that in matters relating to administrative functions, if a decision is tainted by any vulnerability as such illegality, irrationality and procedural impropriety, Courts should not hesitate to interfere, if the action falls within any of the categories stated supra. 48. In National Insurance Co. Ltd., v. Keshav Bahadur reported in 2004 (2) SCC 37 = AIR 2004 SC 1581, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that,
	The word discretion standing single and unsupported by circumstances signifies exercise of judgment, skill or wisdom as distinguished from folly, unthinking or haste; evidently therefore a discretion cannot be arbitrary but must be a result of judicial thinking. The word in itself implies vigilant circumstances and care; therefore, where the Legislature concedes discretion it also imposes a heavy responsibility. 49. In Union of India v. Kuldeep Singh reported in (2004) 2 SCC 590, the Supreme Court again explained the meaning and significance of the word discretion as follows: 50.	In the reported judgment, the Hon'ble Supreme Court while testing the correctness of a judgment rendered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 , and the discretion to be exercised by the High Court, explained the principles governing the mode of exercise of the discretionary power for public functionaries as follows: 51. In Aero Traders Pvt. Ltd., v. Ravinder Kumar Suri reported in AIR 2005 SC 15, the Supreme Court, while explaining the meaning of the word discretion, held as follows: 52. In State of NCT of Delhi v. Sanjeev , reported in (2005) 5 SCC 181, the Hon'ble Supreme Court, explaining the scope of judicial review of executive action held as follows: 53. In Reliance Airport Developers Pvt. Ltd., v. Airports Authority of India reported in 2006 (10) JT 423 (SC), the Hon'ble Apex Court held that the discretion must be governed by rule and not by humour or fanciful, but by legal and regular practice and procedure. The Hon'ble Apex Court further added that, Judicial Discretion" signifies unrestrained exercise of choice or will; freedom to act according to one's own judgment; unrestrained exercise of will; the liberty or power of acting without control other than one's own judgment. 54.	The power conferred on the authority without any guidelines may likely to be abused or arbitrarily exercised and in such circumstances, the guidance and the control of exercise of such power has to be gathered from the object of conferment of such power. Non-consideration or non-application of mind to the relevant factors, renders exercise of discretion manifestly erroneous and it cause for judicial interference. In Global Energy Limited and another v. Central Electricity Regulatory Commission reported in 2009 15 SCC 570, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the exercise of discretion has to be in conformity with the purpose for which, it is conferred, object sought to be achieved and reasons to be recorded. 55.	Power has to be exercised with regard to the duty arising from the nature of the action to be performed by the adjudicating authority. The conditions on the basis of which the power has to be exercised and the repercussions or consequences of such exercise, in the light of the scheme of the Act, which prohibits smuggling and other acts morefully set out in Section 11 and 11A of the Customs Act, 1962, or any other law for the time being in force, should always be kept in mind, while considering either provisional release or passing an order, on the culmination of adjudicatory proceedings. 56.	At the time, when discretion is exercised under Section 125 and if any challenge is made under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, the twin test, to be satisfied is "relevance and reason". In the light of the judgments of the Hon'ble Apex Court and applying the same to the facts of this case and testing the discretion exercised by the authority, on both subjective and objective satisfaction, as to why, the goods seized, cannot be released, when smuggling is alleged and on the materials on record, we are of the view that the discretion exercised by the competent authority, to deny release, is in accordance with law. Interference by the Tribunal is against law and unjustified. 57.	In the light of the above discussion and decisions, we have no hesitation to set aside the order of the Tribunal. Substantial question of law raised is answered in favour of the respondent. Hence, the present Civil Miscellaneous Appeal is allowed. No costs.