State of Meghalaya & Anr -vrs- Smti. Phikirbha Khariah & Ors 2. WA No. 53 of 2011
 Shri Kamai Marsharing & Ors -vrs- Smti. Phikirbha Khariah & Ors 3. WA No. 55 of 2011
 State of Meghalaya & Anr -vrs- Shri Defender M. Pale 4. WA No. 56 of 2011
 State of Meghalaya & Anr -vrs- Shri Ridimi Tongper & Ors 5. WA No. 57 of 2011
 State of Meghalaya & Anr -vrs- Shri Lurshai Kharpran & Ors 6. WA No. 58 of 2011
 State of Meghalaya & Anr -vrs- Smti. Warida Lamare 7. WA No. 59 of 2011
 State of Meghalaya & Anr -vrs- Smti. Judicious Suting 8. WA No. 60 of 2011 State of Meghalaya & Anr -vrs- Shri Robert K.C. Momin 9. WA No. 61 of 2011 State of Meghalaya & Anr -vrs- Shri Mihsalan Law 2 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters 10. WA No. 62 of 2011 State of Meghalaya & Anr -vrs- Ms. Kmenkima Sutong 11. WA No. 63 of 2011 Shri Shiva Embynta Siangshai & Ors -vrs- Smti. Phikirbha Khariah & Ors 12. WA No. 65 of 2011 Smti. Unity Passwet & Ors -vrs- Shri Ridimi Tongper & Ors 13. WP(C) No. 65 of 2014 Smti. Sambharika Sungoh & Ors -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 14. WP(C) No. 66 of 2014 Smti. Chika Shadap -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 15. WP(C) No. 70 of 2014 Smti. Rapbiang Sajem -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 16. WP(C) No. 72 of 2014 Smti. Mun Mun Mukhim & Ors -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 17. WP(C) No. 73 of 2014 Smt. Bluesina Mukhim -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 18. WP(C) No. 83 of 2014 Smti. Baaipaka Budon & Anr -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 19. WP(C) No. 88 of 2014 Smti. Sunita Koch -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 20. WP(C) No. 112 of 2014 Smti. Deimon Tariang -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 3 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters 21. WP(C) No.113 of 2014 Shri Synta Pohthmi -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 22. WP(C) No.116 of 2014 Shri Shemphang Pohshna -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 23. WP(C) No.166 of 2014 Smti. Meriki Dkhar & Ors -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 24. WP(C) No.121 of 2014 Smti. Queenjuly Month Thongni -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 25. WA No.8 of 2017 Shri Salgring Ch. Marak & Ors -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 26. WA No.9 of 2017 Shri Salgring Ch. Marak & Ors -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 27. WA No.10 of 2017 Shri Fenlevy N. Sangma & Ors -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 28. WA No.11 of 2017 Shri. Fenlevy N. Sangma -vrs- State of Meghalaya 29. WA No.12 of 2017 Shri Nazmul Hashan -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 30. WP(C) No.87of 2017
 Smti. Elizabeth Marboh -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 31. WP(C) No.111 of 2017 Smti. Nital Suna -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 4 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters 32. WP(C) No.131 of 2017 Smti. Darisuk Pyrngap -vrs- State of Meghalaya & Ors 33. WP(C) No.132 of 2017 Smti. Rita Ryngkhlem & Ors -vrs- HON'BLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE SHRI DINESH MAHESHWARI
 HON'BLE SHRI JUSTICE VED PRAKASH VAISH

 Dr. BP Todi, Advocate General with Ms. P Agarwal, for the appellants in
 WA Nos.52, 55 - 62 of 2011
 Shri P Yobin, for the appellants in WA No.53, 63 and 65 of 20111;
 Shri S Dey, for the petitioners in WP(C) Nos.88,65,66 and 70 of 2014 and
 132 of 2017
 Shri NM Mansuri, for the petitioners in WP(C) Nos.112 and 116 of 2014
 Shri HL Shangreiso, for the petitioners in WP(C) No.72 of 2014, 87 of 2017
 and 131 of 2017
 Shri AS Siddiqui, for the petitioner in WP(C)No.73 of 2014
 Shri S Chakrawarty, Sr. Advocate with Ms. M Mahanta for the petitioners in WP(C) No.83 of 2014 Shri N Syngkon, for the petitioner in WP(C) Nos. 113 of 2014
 Shri MZ Ahmed Sr. Advocate with Shri AM Dutta, for the petitioner in WP(C) Nos.166 of 2014 Shri B Khyriem, for the petitioner in WP(C)No.121 of 2014
 Shri AM Suna, for the petitioner in WP(C) No. 111 of 2017
 Shri PT Sangma, for the appellants in WA Nos. 8 -12 of 2017 and
 Interveners in WA Nos. 52, 55 - 62 of 2011
 Shri R Jha, for the respondents in WA Nos.56 and 65 of 2011
 Shri SD Upadhaya, for the respondent in WA No.57 of 2011
 Shri MF Quershi, for the respondents in WA Nos.59 and 63 of 2011
 Shri M Halder, for the respondent in WA No.60 of 2011
 Shri K Baruah, for the respondent in WA No.62 of 2011
 Shri KP Bhattacharjee, GA for the respondents in the writ petitions
 Shri K Paul & Ms.N Gurung, for interveners in WA Nos. 52, 55 - 62 of 2011
 Shri VK Jindal Sr. Advocate with Ms. M Marak, for CBI

AFR BY THE COURT: (per Hon'ble the Chief Justice)

 PRELIMINARY AND BRIEF OUTLINE

 The intra-court appeals and the writ petitions in this batch of cases

 involving similar and/or inter-related facts and issues have been heard 1 for the appellants No. 1-3,6,7,9-11,14-17,20,21,24,26-30,32-34,36-40,42,43,45-48,50-
 55,57,60,62,64,65,69-77,81,84,89-94 in WA No. 63 of 2011 and for the appellants No. 3,5-
 11,13,15-25,27,29,30,32-34,36,38,40-43 in WA No.65 of 2011 5 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

together; and are taken up for disposal by this common judgment. In view

of the inordinate expansion of facts and the submissions in these matters,

appropriate it would be to indicate the brief outline before entering into the

details. The dispute and the issues in this batch of cases have their genesis

in the process of selection to the post of Assistant Teacher in Government

Lower Primary Schools in the State of Meghalaya that was taken up at

different Centres in the years 2008-2009 and pursuant whereof, several

persons were appointed as Assistant Teacher but several unsuccessful

candidates preferred nine writ petitions2, while questioning the selection

process as being illegal and malafide. These writ petitions were decided

together by a learned Single Judge by the common order dated

21.10.2011, with the conclusion, inter alia, that there was strong prima

facie evidence of „massive irregularities, arbitrariness and manipulations‟;

and that a fair and impartial inquiry into the entire selection process was

imperative, which could be realised only through the Central Bureau

Investigation [„CBI‟]. The learned Single Judge, therefore, directed the CBI

to carry out the necessary inquiry in regard to the specific allegations

occurring in the averments taken in the writ petitions as also in the papers

annexed thereto; and further directed that on the basis of the inquiry

report, the respondent authorities would take consequential actions,

including cancellation of the entire selection process and all the

appointments and restarting of the process. Pursuant to these directions,

the CBI conducted the inquiry and submitted its report on 05.03.2012 in

the High Court in a sealed cover. However, the order so passed by the

learned Single Judge was challenged in intra-court appeals which were

again considered as group matters and were decided by the Division 2 The writ petitions were filed in the Shillong Bench of Gauhati High Court that was, at the relevant
time, exercising jurisdiction over the State of Meghalaya 6 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

Bench of Gauhati High Court by the common judgment dated 16.08.2012.

The Hon‟ble Division Bench accepted the submissions made on behalf of

the State that inquiry by CBI was not requisite and the matter ought to

have been left for appropriate scrutiny and inquiry by the Government. The

Division Bench, however, did not annul the report of the CBI but directed

that the records be reviewed and be re-scrutinised by the Committee, to be

constituted by the Principal Secretary to the Government of Meghalaya in

its Education Department, regarding the candidature of selected and

unselected candidates within the ambit and scope of the writ petitions filed

before the Court while taking beneficial assistance and guidance of the

findings, if any, recorded legitimately by the CBI in its report. The Division

Bench further directed that the services of the tainted candidates be

terminated; the bonafide untainted candidates be retained; and the

unselected, who were otherwise found eligible, be appointed. Pursuant to the directions aforesaid, a so-called High Level Scrutiny

Committee [„HLSC‟/„the Committee‟] was constituted by the Government.

This Committee proceeded to make its report on 29.07.2013 with the

findings on several tainted candidates and with observations on several

aspects that shall be detailed out hereafter later. The Committee

recommended for termination of the services of tainted candidates, and for

retention of untainted selected candidates as also for appointment of other

untainted candidates, who were otherwise found eligible. Pursuant to this

report, steps were taken by the Director, School Education and Literacy to

terminate the services of 246 candidates in the month of February 2014.

After such steps by the Government and its officials, some of the

terminated candidates preferred a Petition for Special Leave to Appeal

[„SLP‟] before the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, challenging their termination

orders along with the judgment dated 16.08.2012 whereas some other 7 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

terminated candidates preferred the writ petitions in this Court challenging

their orders of termination. On 21.04.2014, operation of the Judgment

dated 16.08.2012 was stayed by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court; and

thereafter, in view of the pendency of the matter before the Supreme

Court, proceedings in the writ petitions filed in this Court were kept in

abeyance. A few more terminated as also unsuccessful candidates sought

impleadment in the pending SLP but, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court only

extended them liberty to express their views as interveners. However, when the matter was finally taken up before the Honb‟le

Supreme Court, it was suggested on behalf of the State that services of

several candidates had been terminated and such a fact was disputed by

the opposite parties. It was also given out that the report made by the CBI

was lying in a sealed cover and HLSC had also submitted its report. In the

given scenario, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court formed the view that the High

Court need to have a fresh look at the matter in the light of these two

reports of CBI and HLSC and after hearing the parties. Hence, while

setting aside the order impugned, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court remitted the

matter to this Court by its order dated 24.03.2017, as passed in Civil

Appeal No. 4565 of 2017 (arising out of SLP (C) No. 11357 of 2014) that

reads as under: Pursuant to the aforesaid directions of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court,

the intra-court appeals of the year 2011 in this bunch of matters stand

revived for consideration; and the writ petitions of the year 2014, which

have remained pending while awaiting the decision of the Hon‟ble

Supreme Court and, for being related to the same subject matter, have

also been taken up with the revived appeals. The other writ petitions of the

year 2017 are the newly instituted cases, filed after the aforesaid revival of

the previous intra-court appeals. The other intra-court appeals, of the year

2017, arise out of the orders passed in some other writ petitions that were

filed belatedly and were dismissed by the learned Single Judge on the

ground of delay and laches. Though these appeals were also barred by

time but, having regard to the revival of the earlier appeals and for the

reason of similar issues, delay in filing these appeals was condoned.

Further, there are several other candidates who have been allowed to

intervene, which include some such persons, who were

appellants/interveners before the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the aforesaid

Civil Appeal No. 4565 of 2017 [arising out of SLP (C) No. 11357 of 2014];

and there are some other interveners too, whose petitions/appeals were

earlier dismissed by this Court but, in the interest of justice, they have also

been allowed to intervene in the revived intra-court appeals.

The forum for fresh consideration and decision

 At the very threshold, we deem it just and proper to deal with one of

the submissions made, particularly by the learned counsel Shri K Paul

appearing for the interveners, that the entire matter, after having been

remitted by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, ought to be examined by the

learned Single Judge of this Court and the writ petitions ought to be

revived for reconsideration. The learned counsel would submit that in view 9 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

of the order passed by the Supreme Court, the appeals filed by the State

and other persons are rendered infructuous and even otherwise, when

there had not been any adjudication by the Court on facts, the fresh

consideration of the matter, as directed by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court,

ought to be by the learned Single Judge of this Court in the first place. On

our queries if the report of HLSC, constituted under the order of the

Division Bench and to be taken into consideration as per the order of the

Supreme Court, could be dealt with by the learned Single Judge, the

learned counsel responded that the learned Single Judge could deal with

the said report too and even annul the same, if necessary. We are unable

to agree. As noticed, the learned Single Judge while dealing with the said nine

writ petitions found a prima facie case of manipulation in the selection

process and considered it proper to refer the matter for inquiry by the CBI.

The Division Bench, however, agreed with the submissions that the matter

ought to have been left for inquiry by the State Government itself. Before

the judgment of the Division Bench, the CBI had already carried out the

inquiry and had submitted its report. After the judgment of the Division

Bench, the HLSC constituted by the Principal Secretary to the Government

of Meghalaya in its Education Department also submitted its report and

some of the follow-up actions were taken with termination of the services

of some such candidates who were found tainted in the inquiry. The

aggrieved persons, thereafter, approached the Hon‟ble Supreme Court

challenging the orders of their termination as also the judgment of the

Division Bench in intra-court appeals. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the

first place stayed the judgment dated 16.08.2012 as passed by the

Division Bench of Gauhati High Court but, ultimately, found that the matter

needs to be re-examined by the High Court in the light of the said two 10 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

reports, as made by the CBI and by the HLSC and hence, remitted the

matter to this Court while setting aside the judgment impugned before it. Indisputably, it was the judgment of the Division Bench dated

16.08.2012, as passed in the above-referred intra-court appeals of the

year 2011, which was under challenge before the Hon‟ble Supreme Court

and, while setting the same aside, the Hon‟ble Supreme remitted the

matter to this Court. Obviously, the matter needs to be given a fresh look in

the High Court in those intra-court appeals, which stand revived per the

force of the order passed by the Supreme Court. In our view, it is entirely

incorrect to contend that these intra-court appeals have been rendered

infructuous. An auxiliary but significant aspect of the matter is that the

report of HLSC, which has been made pursuant to the order of the Division

Bench in intra-court appeals, is also to form the foundation of fresh

consideration of the entire matter. In our view, such a consideration with

reference to the report of HLSC could justifiably be taken up only by the

Division Bench and not by the learned Single Judge because such a report

has been made only pursuant to the directions of the Division Bench. Even

otherwise, the pending writ petitions have also been withdrawn to the

Division Bench so as to provide analogous hearing and to finally conclude

the matter, so far this Court is concerned. Therefore, we find no substance

in the suggestions that the matters need to be considered by the Single

Judge; and these suggestions stand rejected. We have heard the matter at a substantial length while allowing the

learned counsel for the parties to go through the relevant records from time

to time and have scanned through the volumes of records placed before us

along with the said reports, one made by the CBI on 05.03.2012 and the

other made by the HLSC on 29.07.2013. WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

BACKGROUND ASPECTS

 Even a glance at the outline foregoing would make it evident that

serious issues, concerning the fairness and legality of the process of

selection to the post of Assistant Teacher in Government Lower Primary

Schools in the State of Meghalaya, are involved herein; and the entire

matter is to be re-examined in the light of the two reports made by the CBI

and the HLSC coupled with the submissions of the learned counsel for the

parties. For a proper comprehension of the complexities of this

controversy, it is rather inevitable to expansively take note of the relevant

background aspects as also the essential features of, and findings in, the

reports made by CBI and HLSC; and further, of the other facts that have

surfaced during the course of hearing. The rather unfortunate story, as it turns out to be, of these matters

had its prelude in a notification bearing number EDN.360/85/Pt.II/360

dated 18.02.2005, as issued by the Government of Meghalaya in its

Education Department to the effect that anyone desirous to be appointed

as Assistant Teacher in Government L.P. School should pass the State

Eligibility Test [„SET‟]. In this notification, the eligibility conditions as also

the method and criteria for conducting the SET were prescribed and the

work was entrusted to the Directorate of Educational Research & Training,

Meghalaya, Shillong [„DERT‟]. Thereafter, the DERT issued an

advertisement dated 15.06.2006 for conducting the SET as contemplated,

while prescribing the eligibility condition as also the age limit in the manner

that the interested candidate should have the minimum qualification of

HSSLC/Class XII from any recognised university/board; and must not be

less than 18 years of age and above 27 years of age as on 01.07.2006

with upper age relaxable by five years in case of SC/ST. It has been 12 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

indicated that about 3100 candidates cleared the said SET, as against 749

vacancies. However, this process, even after having been completed, did

not result in appointment of any person on the post of Assistant Teacher in

Government L.P. School. Thereafter, the Government of Meghalaya in its Education

Department came out with another notification No. EDN.360/85/Pt.II/428

dated 24.11.2008 in supersession of the earlier notification No.

EDN.360/85/Pt.II/360 dated 18.02.2005, purportedly prescribing the

procedure to be adopted in the matters of appointment of teachers in

Government L.P. Schools and, inter alia, providing for an eligibility test for

the persons desirous of applying for appointment as L.P. School teacher

but with exemptions as under: It was also provided that the eligibility test would be conducted Sub-

Division wise and only the person with minimum qualification shall be

eligible to sit in the test. While further providing for the syllabus and

duration of the written examination, the method of evaluation was also

stated. Further, the division of marks on academic qualification,

personality, expression ability and suitability in the personal interview were 13 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

also provided with weightage marks for professional qualifications. The

composition of Interview Board was also provided. It was also provided

that the candidate should not be less than 18 years of age and should not

have crossed 27 years of age (relaxable to 32 years in case of SC/ST

candidates) as on 1st January of the year on which the post was

advertised. In case of in-service candidates, it was provided that the

candidate should have been within the age limit when first entered in

service. The aforesaid had been the methodology for eligibility test in the

said notification dated 24.11.2008. Thereafter, the method of selection was

provided in clauses 29 and 30 of the notification, which are of bearing in

these matters. The said clauses 29 and 30 of the notification dated

24.11.2008 read as under: 30. The full marks for this personal interview shall be 50 (fifty) and the
 distribution of marks shall be as follows: WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 2nd Division - 5 marks
 3rd Division - 2 marks

 Under the "Professional Qualification" head (iii) SET qualified candidate - 10 marks (iv) BTC/DIET passed - 8 marks (v) B.Ed - 5 marks

 Under the "experience" head (vi) Contractual teachers (on account of experience) - 7 marks" It was further provided in the notification dated 24.11.2008 that after

the personal interview, list of the selected candidates in order of merit shall

be prepared by the Selection Committee and shall be sent by the Director,

Elementary & Mass Education to the Education Department for approval.

Further to this, it was also provided that the approved merit list shall be

published by the Director and appointment shall be offered to the

candidates strictly in the approved order of merit and no departure shall be

resorted to without approval of the Director; and the appointment order

shall be issued by the Deputy Inspector of Schools. 15 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 Thereafter, The Deputy Inspector of Schools proceeded to issue the

advertisement dated 10.12.2008 inviting applications for appointment to

the post of Assistant Teachers in the Government L.P. Schools in the scale

of pay of Rs. 3450-80-3930-EB-90-4650-100-5650/- that reads as under: Applications should be submitted to the office of the undersigned
 along with the photocopy of the following documents duly attested
 by a gazetted Officer:- 3) Photocopy of HSSLC/Pre-University Certificate/Mark-sheets. 4) Photocopy of B.A/B.Sc/B.Com/B.Ed Certificate and mark-sheets. 5)Photocpopy of Diplomas/Certificates issued by DIET.BTC/CTTC/
 NTCs etc. (iii) Last date for submission of applications - 9th JANUARY, 2009. Candidates found eligible and qualified for the post shall have to
 appear for the personnel interview to be conducted by the Selection 16 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 Committee as constituted by the Government on the dates and
 venue to be notified later. Candidates canvassing directly or indirectly in any form shall
 be liable to be disqualified." Pursuant to the advertisement aforesaid, about 4928 candidates

appeared for the interview in the respective Sub-divisions of which, 1163

were declared selected in the first list issued by the Directorate of

Elementary and Mass Education on 23.12.2009, including wait list

candidates, against 857 vacancies until the year 2010. While declaring the

result, the Directorate also issued a notice to the effect that the results may

not be free from clerical errors, omissions and mistakes, which might have

occurred during compilation and even assignment of marks during the

interview by the Board and hence, the aggrieved candidate may make

representation within 60 days of the declaration of result. It appears that no

effective representation at that stage was made but several unsuccessful

candidates gathered various information under the Right to Information

Act, 2005 and thereafter, preferred nine writ petitions, while questioning

the selection process as being illegal, malafide and suffering from

widespread manipulations and favouritism. One of the candidates even

filed a First Information Report [„FIR‟] with the allegations that her marks

had been erased in the compilation sheet and as a result of such

manipulation, she was deprived of the job opportunity whereupon,

Laitumkhrah Police Station Case No.62 (7) of 2011 was registered, initially,

for offence under Section 408 IPC and therein, certain other complaints

and FIRs alleging the offences under Sections 120B/167/466/34 have also

been clubbed; and as at present, investigation remains pending. In regard

to this FIR, the relevant aspects shall be discussed a little later.

DISPOSAL OF WRIT PETITIONS BY THE ORDER DATED 21.10.2011 -

DIRECTIONS FOR INQUIRY BY CBI 17 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 The writ petitions aforesaid were considered together but the matters

in issue in each case were comprehensively examined by the learned

Single Judge of the Shillong Bench of Gauhati High Court in the common

order dated 21.10.2011, where it was maintained on behalf of the State

that there had not been any illegality or error in the results declared; and

the petitioners had failed to make any representation though they could

have done so. The learned Single Judge, basically with reference to the

lead case WP (C) No.106 (SH) of 2010, meticulously examined all the

relevant background aspects and the scheme of the selection process as

also the rival contentions and then, in the first place found that there were

certain such respondents who were over-aged and their appointments

were not sustainable. The learned Single Judge held in this regard as

under:- (underlining supplied for emphasis)

 The learned Single Judge thereafter considered the question of

award of marks under the head "Experience" and found such obvious

errors where, in terms of their age, the marks as awarded to some in-

service candidates would have been possible only if they entered the

service at the age of minority! On the other hand, it was also found that

some of the petitioners having higher length of teaching experience were

awarded lesser marks and the learned Single Judge sniffed that something 18 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

was indeed rotten and the selection process suffered from arbitrariness

and nepotism. The learned Single Judge observed in this regard as under:- (underlining supplied for emphasis)

 The learned Single Judge, thereafter, dealt with the issue relating to

the manipulation of marks in the personal interview and again

painstakingly examined several cases where awarding of marks was 19 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

obviously manipulated with obliteration and overwriting. The learned Single

Judge pointed out the awfulness of such manipulations in the following:- without any apparent reason. There is also evidence of overwriting marks
 in the related entries. 27. As for the respondent No. 7, there is no evidence that she is a 20 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

graduate or had passed SET examination or has teaching experience
whatsoever, yet she was awarded 10 mark for higher qualification and ten
marks for experience as contractual teacher and another 20 marks under
the head of "Suitability & Micro-teaching Ability" without any apparent
reason. Besides, there is evidence of overwritings and/or interpolations in
the compilation sheet concerning the related entries. In the case of the
respondent No. 76, there is evidence of overwriting/manipulation in the
compilation sheet with respect to the heads of "Experience" and the head
of "Suitability & Micro-teaching Ability". As for the respondent No. 80, he
hardly has a teaching experience for one year, yet he was awarded 9
marks against this entry and another sixteen marks under the head of
"Suitability & Micro-teaching Ability" without any apparent reason. Besides,
there is evidence of manipulation in his score sheet pertaining to this
head. Similarly, the respondent No. 85 barely has a teaching experience
of one year, yet he was awarded 8 marks under the head of contractual
teaching and another 19 marks under the head of "Suitability & Micro-
teaching Ability" without any apparent reason. Likewise, the respondent
No. 86 had a teaching experience of hardly one year, yet she was
awarded ten marks under the head of contractual teaching and another 16
marks under the head of "Suitability & Micro-teaching Ability" without any
apparent basis. Moreover, it is noticed that numerous overwritings are
found in the compilation sheet against the related entries. Respondent No.
88 also has hardly any teaching experience at all, but was awarded 7
marks under the head of "Experience" and another 18 marks under the
head of "Suitability & Micro-teaching Ability" without any rhyme or reason.
There is also evidence of manipulations in the compilation sheet with
respect to the entries relating "Suitability & Micro-teaching Ability". So is
the case of respondent 89, who had only two years of teaching
experience, yet was awarded 20 marks under the head of "Suitability &
Micro-teaching Ability" without any apparent basis. In the case of
respondent 90, she has a teaching experience of less than one month, but
was awarded 10 marks under the head "Experience" and another 18
marks under the head of "Suitability & Micro-teaching Ability" without any
apparent reason. 28. Coming now to respondent 91, she also had a teaching experience of
hardly two years, yet she was awarded 10 marks under his head and
another 18 marks under the head of "Suitability & Micro-teaching Ability" without any apparent reason. Besides, there is evidence of manipulation
of marks against the related entries. In the case of respondent 30 also,
there is no evidence of her having any teaching experience, yet was
awarded 10 marks under the head of "Experience" and another 11 marks
under the head of "Suitability & Micro-teaching Ability" without any
apparent basis. So is the case of respondent 32, who apparently had a
teaching experience of hardly two years, but was awarded 7 marks under
the head of "Experience" and another 18 marks under the head of
"Suitability & Micro-teaching Ability" without any rhyme or reason.
Similarly, respondent 33 had a teaching experience of hardly one year, yet
she was awarded 10 marks under the head of "Experience" and another
18 marks under the head of "Suitability & Micro-teaching Ability" without
any apparent basis. So is the case of respondent 49, who did not have
any teaching experience, but was awarded 8 marks under the head of
"Experience" and another 20 marks under the head of "Suitability & Micro-
teaching Ability" without any apparent reason. Similarly, respondent 57
has hardly a teaching experience of 1 year, but has been awarded 9
marks under the head of "Experience" and another 19 marks under the 21 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 head of "Suitability & Micro-teaching Ability" without any apparent basis. In
 the case of respondent 66, she did have any teaching experience, yet was
 awarded 8 marks for contractual teaching experience and another 20
 marks (full mark) under the head of "Suitability & Micro-teaching Ability" without any rhyme or reason. So is the case of respondent 45, who has
 barely a contractual teaching experience of three years, but has been
 awarded 10 marks for contractual teaching experience and another 16
 marks under the head of "Suitability & Micro-teaching Ability" without any
 apparent reason." The learned Single Judge further considered yet another aspect, of

jacking up of marks, as raised in WP (C) No.51 (SH) of 2010 in relation to

the contractual teachers as also awarding of marks beyond maximum 7

marks, as contemplated by Clause 30 of the notification dated 24.11.2008.

The learned Single Judge found that in substantial number of cases, the

contractual teachers were awarded the marks ranging from 8 to 10 and

tabulated all their names and marks. The learned Single Judge yet further

took note of the fact that several of the candidates with much lesser

experience ranging between 1 to 4 years were awarded higher marks

whereas, one of the petitioners, who had been working for about 8 years,

was awarded only 2 marks. The learned Single Judge also referred to the

rather intriguing reply of the respondents as regards stark discrepancies in

awarding of marks as under:- The learned Single Judge observed that the respondents were

conveniently fudging the principal issue raised by the petitioners, namely

manner of undue award of marks contrary to the rules framed by the

respondents themselves. The learned Single Judge, thereafter, took up the matter involved in

WP (C) No.52 (SH) of 2010 and, again, found the case of undue award of

marks towards teaching experience. The learned Single Judge thereafter

took up WP (C) No.408 (SH) of 2010 where, again, several candidates

were awarded higher marks towards teaching experience even beyond the

permissible maximum 7. In this case, the learned Judge also referred to

the fact that there were two such candidates whose names did not appear

in the list of applicants and yet they were appointed; and found

questionable the response of the respondents that those candidates were

subsequently allowed to appear on the basis of their representations. The

learned Single Judge also referred to various other writ petitions where the 23 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

petitioners had been awarded lesser marks towards teaching experience.

In the last, the learned Single Judge took up WP (C) No.182 (SH) of 2010

and found considerable force in the case of the petitioner about

manipulation and gross irregularities; and with apposite examples, arrived

at the prima facie satisfaction of strong case in favour of the petitioners in

the following:- have remained unchallenged or not denied or otherwise not satisfactorily
 explained by the respondent authorities in their affidavit-in-opposition.
 Besides, a number of selected candidates are apparently overage, yet
 they were selected for the appointments and in fact have now been
 appointed without relaxing their age. Though this Court has no machinery
 to investigate manipulations/fraud of this magnitude, yet it is quite satisfied
 that a strong prima cases have been clearly made out by the petitioners in
 all the writ petitions." (underlining supplied for emphasis)

 The learned Single Judge referred to the principles in Tata Cellular

v. Union of India : (1994) 6 SCC 651 as regards the parameters of judicial

review of administrative actions and thereafter, expressed in no uncertain

terms that there was a strong prima facie case of massive irregularities 24 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

and manipulations and the matter was of a gross wrong. The learned

Single Judge, even while pointing out that what he had referred were only

the examples and were just of „tip of an iceberg‟, refrained from taking

upon the role of Commission of Inquiry and found it imperative that an

effective inquiry in relation to the entire process be carried out by the CBI.

The learned Single Judge, while referring to the case of Union of India O.

Chakradhar, (2002) 3 SCC 146 observed and held as under:- (underlining supplied for emphasis)

 The learned Single Judge also dealt with the submissions of the

learned Advocate General made with reference to the decision of the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Sadananda Halo v. Momtaz Ali Sheikh : finding commission, and the Court should rather restrict itself to the

pleadings of the parties; and rejected such contentions with reference to

the decision in Krishan Yadav v. State of Haryana , (1994) 4 SCC 165

while observing as under:- "19. It is highly regrettable that the holders of public offices both
 big and small have forgotten that the offices entrusted to them are
 sacred trusts. Such offices are meant for use and not abuse. From
 a Minister to a menial everyone has been dishonest to gain undue
 advantages. The whole examination and the interview have turned
 out to be farcical exhibiting base character of those who have been
 responsible for this sordid episode. It shocks our conscience to
 come across such a systematic fraud. It is somewhat surprising the
 High court should have taken the path of least resistance stating, in
 view of the destruction of records, that it was helpless. It should
 have helped itself. Law is not that powerless." (underlining supplied for emphasis)

 After having thus examined the basic factual aspects and several of

the examples unmistakably showing large scale manipulations; and with

reference to the applicable legal principles, the learned Single Judge

adopted the course of referring the matter to the CBI for inquiry into the

allegations of the petitioners; and directed that the authorities concerned

shall take appropriate action on the basis of the inquiry report, which may

include cancellation of the entire selection process and all the

appointments made. The learned Single Judge concluded on the writ

petitions with the following directions:- and page 86 of the writ petition in WP(C) No. 182(SH) of 2010 as
 expeditiously as possible and submit the inquiry report within a period of
 three months from the date of receipt of this judgment. The original files
 relating to the DPC proceedings bearing No. DEME-2/Per/2009
 (Amlarem), No. DEME-8A/Per/2009 (Jowai), No. DEME-1/Per/2009/1
 (Shillong), No. DEME/GA/8/Appt/2008 (Jowai), No. DEME/GA/Appt/7/2008
 (Dedengre) and No. DEME-3/Per/2009 (Tura) shall be kept by the Registry
 under sealed cover and shall be handed over to the CBI as and when
 required after duly obtaining their acknowledgment thereof. On the basis of 27 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 the inquiry report so submitted, the respondent authorities shall take
 necessary and consequential actions on the basis of the inquiry report
 submitted by the CBI including cancellation of the entire selection
 processes and the appointments already made in connection therewith
 and re-starting of the recruitment process to fill up the posts in question
 within a period of two months thereafter. If the petitioners are still
 aggrieved by the decision of the State-respondents, they are at liberty to
 approach this Court again for further and appropriate orders. The parties
 are, however, directed to bear their respective costs. Communicate this
 order to the Superintendent of Police, CBI, Shillong for necessary
 compliance. It is expected that the State-respondents extend
 cooperation to the CBI for smooth and effective inquiry into the matters."

DISPOSAL OF INTRA-COURT APPEALS ON 16.08.2012 - DIRECTIONS

FOR INQUIRY BY COMMITTEE TO BE CONSTITUTED BY THE STATE

GOVERNMENT

 The aforesaid order dated 21.10.2011, as passed by the learned

Single Judge was questioned before the Division Bench of Gauhati High

Court in nine appeals by the State and three other appeals by the private

respondents. Be it noticed that before decision of these appeals, the CBI

had completed the inquiry and submitted its report to the Court in a sealed

cover on 05.03.2012. The appeals were thereafter taken up for decision on

16.08.2012. Though the judgment of the Division Bench dated 16.08.2012

has already been set aside by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court but, the report

of HLSC constituted under the said judgment of the Division Bench is to be

taken into consideration for a fresh decision of these matters. Therefore,

and in the overall circumstances, it appears necessary that the salient

features of the said judgment dated 16.08.2012 be also taken note of. On a bare look at the judgment dated 16.08.2012, it is apparent that

in these intra-court appeals, the core findings of the learned Single Judge

were not put to contention but the principal submissions on behalf of the

State, equally adopted by the private appellants, had been that in the given

set of facts and circumstances, the matter ought not to have been referred

for an inquiry by CBI but ought to have been left open for appropriate

inquiry and proceedings by the employer i.e., the State itself. The Division 28 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

Bench briefly took note of the directions of the learned Single Judge as

also the submissions of the learned counsel appearing for the State with

reference to some of the allegations in the writ petitions and reply thereto.

Thereafter, the Division Bench referred to a part of the finding of the

learned Single Judge in the following:- The Division Bench specifically took note of the submissions on the

part of the appellant-State that they were not putting challenge to any

finding of fact recorded in the judgment of the learned Single Judge

because, according to them, the learned Single Judge had not come to

any definite finding regarding the veracity and genuineness of the

allegations. The Division Bench also took note of the submissions that the

observations about the "presumptive evidence of manipulations", do not

justify the directions impugned; and referred to various decisions cited on

behalf of the appellant-State, including the one in Inderpreet Singh

Kahlon v. State of Punjab : (2006) 11 SCC 356 and that in State of W.B.

v. Comm. for Protection of Democratic Rights, W.B.: (2010) 3 SCC 571

and again noted the assertions on the part of the State Government in the

following:- (underlining supplied for emphasis)

 The Division Bench also took note of the submissions on the part of

the contesting respondents i.e., the writ petitioners who were seeking to

justify the order for an inquiry by the CBI and, while rejecting such

contentions, accepted the submissions on the part of the State but at the

same time, found it just and proper that the report already made by CBI

may not be allowed to go waste. The Division Bench formed the opinion

that cause of justice would be met if the Principal Secretary to the

Government of Meghalaya in its Education Department was directed to

constitute a „High Level Scrutiny Committee of Officials without any stigma‟

to scrutinize the records regarding the candidature of „selected and un-

selected candidates‟, within the ambit and scope of the writ petitions and

for appropriate action. However, the Division Bench also directed that

while undertaking the exercise, the authorities would take assistance and

guidance of the finding, if any, recorded legitimately by the CBI; and further

indicated the duty of the State Government that no officer or authority,

howsoever high, was to be spared, if deliberate complicity was found in the

matter of "vitiating" or "otherwise interfering" with the selection process.

The Division Bench observed and directed as under:- 29. Hence, taking into consideration the above and by balancing the
 circumstances, in our opinion, cause of justice would be met, if the
 Principal Secretary to the Government of Meghalaya in the Education
 Department is directed to constitute a High Level Scrutiny Committee of
 Officials without any stigma to scrutinize and review the records
 regarding the candidature of the selected and unselected candidates
 involved within the ambit and scope of connected writ petitions being
 W.P.(C) Nos. 106 (SH)/2010, 51 (SH)/2010, 52(SH)/2010, 88 (SH)/2010,
 408(SH)/2010, 267(SH)/2010, 50(SH)/2010,15(SH)/2010 and 182
 (SH)/2010 so as to ascertain the legality/basis of such selection or non-
 selections, as the case may be, and thereafter by segregating the tainted
 candidates from the non-tainted, take appropriate actions in accordance
 with law to offer appointment/confirm appointments of duly selected
 candidates whether already appointed or not and also terminate the
 candidature/appointment of the ineligible candidates and appoint eligible
 candidates including the writ petitioner, if found suitable. While
 undertaking this exercise the authorities shall also take beneficial
 assistance and guidance of the findings, if any, recorded legitimately by
 the CBI in its enquiry report now lying at the custody of the State
 Authorities. Needless to say, it will also be the duty of the State
 Government not to spare any officer or authority, howsoever high he may
 be, if any deliberate complicity is found in the matter of vitiating or
 otherwise interfering with the selection process. 30. We accordingly direct as above. The entire exercise ordered above
 shall now be completed expeditiously and not later than 6 months from the
 date of this judgment. The related directions contained in paragraph 40 of
 the Judgment & Order dated 21.10.2011 passed by the learned Single
 Judge shall stand modified to the aforesaid effect." (underlining supplied for emphasis)

 In compliance of the order aforesaid, the concerned Principal

Secretary to the Government of Meghalaya in its Education Department

constituted the High Level Scrutiny Committee that submitted its report on

29.07.2013. As noticed, prior to that, the report of CBI had already been

submitted on 05.03.2012 and now, these matters are to be examined in

the light of these two reports and the submissions of the parties. However,

before referring to these reports and the varying contentions, a few

aspects relating to the matter before the Hon‟ble Supreme Court may also

be taken note of. PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE SUPREME COURT

 It is noticed that in its report dated 29.07.2013, the so-called High

Level Scrutiny Committee constituted by the concerned Principal Secretary

to the Government of Meghalaya found several cases of manipulations 33 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

and tampering with the score sheets (apart from various other aspects- as

shall be referred later); and recommended for termination of the services of

tainted candidates, and for retention of untainted candidates as also for

appointment of untainted candidates, who were otherwise found eligible.

Pursuant to this report, steps were taken by the Director, School Education

and Literacy to terminate the services of 246 candidates in the month of

February 2014. This led to some of the terminated candidates approaching

the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, challenging their termination orders along with

the judgment dated 16.08.2012. On 21.04.2014, operation of the Judgment

dated 16.08.2012 was stayed by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in SLP (C)

No. 11357 of 2014. A few more terminated as also unsuccessful

candidates sought impleadment in the pending SLP but by the order dated

02.09.2016, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court only extended them a liberty to

express their views at the hearing as interveners. However, when the matter was finally taken up by the Honb‟le

Supreme Court, it was suggested on behalf of the State that services of

several candidates had been terminated and such a fact was disputed by

the opposite parties. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court formed the view that the

High Court need to have a fresh look at the matter in the light of two

reports, of CBI and HLSC, and after hearing the parties. Hence, while

setting aside the judgment impugned, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court remitted

the matter to this Court and, accordingly, these appeals have been revived

for decision afresh in view of the order dated 24.03.2017 so passed by the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Civil Appeal No. 4565 of 2017 (arising out of

SLP No. 11357 of 2014) that has been reproduced at the outset in the

preliminary part of this judgment. THE INQUIRY REPORT OF CBI

 It shall now be apposite to take note of the salient features of the 34 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

inquiry report by CBI as we get down to brass tacks in re-examination of

the entire matter, per the directions of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court. It is

noticed that the Superintendent of Police, CBI, Shillong immediately took

up compliance of the order dated 21.10.2011 passed by the learned Single

Judge in these matters and registered a case bearing No.

PESHG2011A002 dated 11.11.2011 and also made a request to the High

Court for extension of time for submission of the inquiry report, which was

duly granted by the Court; and thereafter, the CBI‟s inquiry report dated

05.03.2012 was submitted in the Court. In this report dated 05.03.2012, after taking note of the allegations

about manipulation of the score sheets of personal interview and inclusion

of the over-age candidates, a detailed reference was made to the

allegations in the papers and paragraphs as indicated by the learned

Single Judge in the operative part of the order dated 21.10.2011. The CBI

also referred to the distribution of marks as also the composition of the

Selection Committees etc. in the said notification dated 24.11.2008. The

CBI further took note of the number of candidates, who had applied and

who had appeared in the interview and then, noted in the first place that at

some of the Centres, the Board taking the interview was different from the

Board which was formed by the Government. The CBI extensively reported

on this aspect, not only in regard to the four Centres involved in the writ

petitions, but also in regard to the fifth centre viz., Dadenggre as follows: Thereafter, several discrepancies in the methodology adopted in

awarding of the marks by the different interview boards were indicated but

the astonishing part as noticed by the CBI with reference to the statement

of the members of the interview board about tampering of the marks was

pointed out in the following: (underlining supplied for emphasis)

 The CBI thereafter, indicated the number of candidates appointed

and the summary of allegations in the writ petitions as under: The selection of aforesaid candidates were questioned before the
 Hon‟ble Gauhati High Court, Shillong Bench vide WP(C) No. 106 (SH) of
 2010, WP(C) No. 88 (SH) of 2010, WP(C) No. 52 (SH) of 2010, WP(C)
 No. 408 (SH) of 2010, WP(C) No. 51 (SH) of 2010, WP(C) No. 15 (SH) of
 2010, WP(C) No. 267 (SH) of 2010, WP(C) No. 50 (SH) of 2010 and
 WP(C) No. 182 (SH) of 2010 on the following ground :- Thereafter, the CBI indicated in minute details all the overwritings

and tampering of marks in relation to a huge number of candidates at the

Centres being inquired into. All such details running in about 80 minutely

printed pages need not be reproduced but the summation of findings of the

inquiry by CBI, as occurring in paragraphs 4.34, 4.35 and 4.37; and the 38 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

conclusion as occurring in paragraph 5 of its report, need to be noticed as

under3: Teacher of L.P. School of the above noted places. WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters 5. Conclusion: Divisions and the number of candidates who got selected after their score
 sheets were tampered have been discussed in detail. Even in the case of
 those candidates who got selected without any tampering it is doubtful that
 they are genuine. This is due to the fact that the marks of many
 candidates were lowered to disqualify them. iii) The allegations in the Writ Petitions are found to be true with
 regards to tampering of marks, appointment of over age candidates,
 awarding of marks which is more than the prescribed limit for experience,
 educational qualification. iv) The enquiry also revealed that many of the selected candidates
 were recommended by politicians such as Ministers, MLAs, MDCs. v) Prima-facie it appears that the tampering was done in the office of
 the Director, Elementary and Mass Education Department to favour some
 candidates who did not qualify and also candidates recommended by
 politicians. vi) The enquiry was conducted in 5 Sub-Divisions as referred by the
 Hon‟ble High Court. There are 10 other Sub-Divisions for which no enquiry
 was conducted." (underlining supplied for emphasis)

 It is, thus, seen that while the writ petitioners had essentially been

crying foul with the allegations of arbitrariness, wrong awarding of marks

and induction of over-age candidates and such allegations were found

enormously true but that was not all; and surpassing all other aspects, the

CBI reported on a startling revelation that a large number of public

representatives, holding important positions as Speaker, Deputy Speaker,

Minister, Member of Legislative Assembly or Member of District Council

etc. had made recommendations for appointment of their chosen

candidates as L.P. School teacher; and such recommendations were

indeed acted upon; and in order to fulfill such desires, the score sheets

were tampered with application of white fluid and inflating the marks of a

number of candidates. The then Director, who was examined by the CBI

alleged having carried out such alterations at the instructions of the

Minister of Education. The said Director also allegedly handed over the file 41 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

containing the letters/communications of such recommendations. The CBI,

duly and faithfully, recorded the facts so divulged and, significantly, it was

found as a matter of fact that a large number of recommended candidates

at the referred Centres were indeed accommodated and appointed as

Assistant Teachers of L.P. Schools. Unfortunately, this report remained in a sealed cover and the

Division Bench did not consider it proper to peruse the same while

delivering the judgment dated 16.08.2012. We are constrained to make

these comments for we feel that, had the said report been examined with

reference to the cogent findings of the learned Single Judge, the Hon‟ble

Division Bench of Gauhati High Court might have adopted a course

different than that of entrusting another inquiry to the State Government.

Be that as it may, this aspect needs no further comment because the said

judgment dated 16.08.2012 has already been set aside by the Hon‟ble

Supreme Court with only saving of the HLSC report for the purpose of re-

examination. THE REPORT OF HIGH LEVEL SCRUTINY COMMITTEE

 As noticed, in the judgment dated 16.08.2012, the Division Bench

assumed that the matter was only of some allegations by some of the

unsuccessful candidates and was not of such magnitude that would justify

an inquiry by the CBI. The Hon‟ble Division Bench also chose to rely on

the assertions made on behalf of the State Government that it would be

willing to get the proper inquiry conducted and to take all the necessary

measures and, therefore, modified the order of the learned Single Judge.

However, even while handing over the inquiry to a Committee to be

constituted by the Government, the Division Bench did not annul the CBI

report and expected the Government to take the assistance and guidance

from the same. In the concluding lines of the judgment dated 16.08.2012, 42 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

the Division Bench also indicated the obvious on the future course as per

the inquiry report that it would be the duty of the State Government „not to

spare any officer or authority, howsoever high he may be, if any deliberate

complicity is found in the matter of vitiating or otherwise interfering with the

selection process‟. However, as shall be noticed hereafter, the members of

the so-called High Level Scrutiny Committee, while purportedly carrying

out the assigned tasks, though did not deny the hard facts staring on the

face of the record but then, instead of taking the matter to its logical

conclusion with forthright recommendations, chose a softer course, only of

recommending the rejection or removal of some of the tainted candidates.

However, on the core of uncomfortable features, relating to questionable

interference in the selection process by the public representatives, only

framed the phraseology on morality and thereafter, left the matter to be

taken care of „in future‟ while, perhaps, assuming as if such pretentious

propositions would be enough to give a decent burial to the ghost of this

scam. We are afraid, if the polluters of public morality are not brought to

the book, it shall be a travesty of justice and shall shake the faith of entire

society in the system which is governed by the rule of law. We shall come

to the other aspects of the matter later but, appropriate it would be to have

a close look at the essential features of the HLSC report first. The so-called High Level Scrutiny Committee, in its long drawn

report running in 90 minutely printed pages, indicated its constitution and

the terms of reference as follows: WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters (ii) Shri C.C.M.Mihsil, IAS, Joint Secretary to the Government of
 Meghalaya, Education Department and Director of Educational
 Research & Training, Meghalaya, Shillong as Member and (iii) Shri P. Ryngksai, Deputy Director of School Education & Literacy,
 Meghalaya, Shillong as Member

 1.3. The Terms of References are: II. The entire exercise ordered above shall be completed not later than
 28th February, 2013. III. This Notification is in compliance with the order dated 31st August,
 2012 passed on Writ Appeal No. (SH) 52/2011 by the Shillong
 Bench of the Hon‟ble Gauhati High Court." Thereafter, the Committee referred to the background of the matter

and proposed action plan to carry out the terms of reference. The

Committee elaborated in paragraphs 2.3 to 2.11 the facts relating to the

late receipt of documents from CBI and non-availability of some other

documents and the extension of time sought from the High Court for

submission of the report where, lastly, the order dated 28.05.2013 was

received by them on 29.05.2013, extending the time for submission of

report by two months. The Committee, thereafter, indicated in paragraph

2.12 that it had, „within the limited time available at its disposal‟ undertaken

„a thorough and painstaking scrutiny and verification of the available and

relevant documents‟. The Committee, thereafter, referred to the 44 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

notifications dated 18.02.2005 and 24.11.2008 as also the advertisements

dated 15.06.2006 and 10.12.2008 and the bifurcation of marks for eligibility

test and interview, the relevant aspects whereof have already been noticed

hereinbefore. On the constitution of Selection Committees in the process in

question, the HLSC stated as follows: Thereafter, the HLSC indicated the number of candidates who had

appeared and who were declared passed and who were shortlisted and

ultimately declared in the first list including wait list as follows: Thereafter, the Committee referred to the background of the litigation

that was taken up in the nine writ petitions and also referred to the order of

the learned Single Judge and his prima facie findings in the following: Thereafter, the Committee proceeded to deal with Tura Centre from

paragraph 3.3 onwards. The Committee referred to the allegations in the

writ petitions and then gave out the details of its scrutiny of 60 selected

candidates out of 554 who had appeared in interview and then, made its

initial comments in paragraph 3.6 of the report as follows: "3.6 Comments: Whereas the Petitioner Robert Ch Momin as per his credentials he
 should have been selected." The Committee also reproduced the statement made before it by the 46 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

Member Secretary Tura Centre. The relevant part of this statement, as

reproduced by the Committee in sub-paragraphs (iv) and (vi) of paragraph

3.7, deserve to be taken note of as under: The Committee, thereafter, made its comments and

recommendations as regards Tura Centre as follows:- 3.9 The Committee‟s Recommendation: The Committee, thereafter, found that out of 76 candidates selected,

the marks of 54 candidates were found tampered and made the comments

and recommendations as follows: 3.15 The Committee‟s Recommendation: The Committee took up Shillong Sadar Centre from paragraph 3.16

onwards. The Committee recorded the statement of Member Secretary of

the Selection Committee and also the person who had signed as

Chairperson and reproduced the same in paragraph 3.18; and indicated its 48 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

opinion that the entire interview process for Shillong Centre should be

considered as invalid because the appointed Chairperson did not attend

the interview and in fact, the Member Secretary himself allotted the marks

in both the provisions meant for Chairman and Member Secretary. But the

Committee, despite stating its strong reservations, left this aspect of the

matter only with the comment that inspite of glaring anomalies and

irregularities, the Directorate had accepted the interview process!

Paragraphs 3.18 and 3.19 of the Committee‟s report read as under: 3.19 Comments: No. 1 to 60 who replaced the candidates in the Statement 1 above
 are considered as tainted candidates as their marks where
 tampered to make them eligible. (ii) The candidates bearing Sl. No. 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16,
 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 (Petitioner), 23 (Petitioner), 24, 26, 27, 28, 31, 32
 (Petitioner), 33, 34, 37, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46 (Petitioner), 47
 (Petitioner), 48, 50, 51, 53, 54, 55, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64,
 65, 66, 68, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 76, 77, 78 & 79 deleted from the
 Original List at Statement 1 above are considered as non tainted
 candidates and are eligible for appointment. 3.25 Committee‟s Recommendation: 3.26 Note on the Select List and Appointment Order: It is surprising to note that the identity of one mysterious candidate
 Viz Shri Dasgusga M Thongni (Sl: No. 57) who appeared in the Select List
 could not be found in the List of candidates (Attendance), Score Sheet, list
 of appointed candidates as well as in other documents of Shillong Centre."

 The Committee further scrutinized the particulars of ten writ

petitioners of Shillong Centre and found six of them eligible and

recommended accordingly. As regards Amlarem Centre, the Committee dealt with the matter in

paragraph 3.30 onwards and in the select list of 43 candidates found only

5 to be untainted and the marks in relation to all other having been 51 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

tampered and recommended as follows: The Committee recommends that the above candidates be retained
 as Assistant Teachers in Government LP Schools under Amlarem
 Sub-division. (ii) 38 candidates bearing Sl.Nos. 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, 35,
 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42 & 43 as per Statement 1 above after a
 thorough scrutiny of the credentials and confirming from the original
 score sheets, the Committee found that the marks of the above
 candidates were tampered and are therefore not eligible and
 considered as tainted candidates. The Committee recommends that the above candidates serving in
 Government L.P. Schools under Amlarem Sub-division may be
 terminated." The Committee, thereafter, dealt with the matter of writ petitioners

relating to Amlarem Centre and found discrepancies and tampering in their

marks too but found another discrepancy regarding one candidate who

was erroneously assigned lower marks that were awarded to another

candidate; and recommended her appointment. The Committee thereafter

referred to the statement of the Member Secretary Amlarem Centre; and

again, the relevant part thereof may be reproduced as under: Thereafter, the Committee took up the matters relating to Jowai

Centre and, as regards Writ Petition Nos. 51, 88, 50, 267 and 52 of 2010,

found that only the petitioners of Writ Petition Nos. 51 and 52 of 2010 were 52 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

eligible. As regards 45 petitioners of Writ Petition No.106 of 2010, the

Committee found 15 of them to be eligible. Further, as regards 111

selected candidates, the Committee found as many as 92 to be the tainted

candidates and recommended as follows: The Committee recommends that the candidates at para
 3.44 (i) above be retained as Assistant Teacher in Government L.P
 School under Jowai Sadar Civil Division. (ii) 92 candidates in the above Statement-1 bearing Sl. No. 2, 3, 5, 6,
 7, 10, 12, 14, 15, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34,
 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52,
 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71,
 72, 73, 74, 75, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 83, 84, 85, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93,
 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 109,
 111 are considered as tainted candidates and hence not-eligible as
 their marks were tampered mostly in Experience, Viva Voce and
 Grand total columns. The Committee recommends that the candidates at para
 3.44 (ii) above should be terminated. (iii) One candidate at Sl. No. 82, Smti. Kermiki Pariat has already
 resigned and joined in the Public Works Department, Meghalaya."

 In regard to Jowai Centre also, the Committee took the statement of

Member Secretary and his relevant assertions may also be taken note of

as under: After the aforesaid survey of the five Centres, the HLSC summarized

its findings in Part-4 of its report. For its relevance, this Part-4 of the report

is reproduced, in extenso, as under: 4.1 As per para 31 of the Notification dated 28/11/2008 mentioned in this
 report at para 2.33, it is mandatory that after the Personal Interview is
 conducted, the list of recommended candidates in order of merit shall be
 prepared by the Selection Committee and the same shall be sent to the
 Director, E&ME who would then submit to the Education Department for
 approval. All the Member Secretaries of the above five Centres during the
 hearing conducted by the HLSC have stated that after the Interview was
 over, they have prepared the merit list based on the marks scored by the
 candidates and later submitted to the Director, E&ME, Meghalaya,
 Shillong. In this regard, the Director, E&ME, had convened a meeting on
 17th April, 2009 with all of them to make aware of the procedure to be
 followed. 4.2 The Committee during its scrutiny and review found only one original merit
 list of Shillong Centre under the signature of the Member Secretary, Shri
 A.Sun. The Committee took serious note of the fact that the original merit
 lists of four Centres, i.e. Tura, Dadenggre, Jowai and Amlarem could not
 be found and that the merit lists of the above four Centres made available
 to the Committee does not bear the signature of the Member Secretaries
 concerned. The unavailability of the merit lists of the above four Centres
 clearly indicates that the original lists may have been replaced after
 manipulation and the marks tampered later at the Directorate level to
 favour some candidates who did not qualify and also candidates
 recommended by the public representatives. 4.3 Since the above original merit lists of the above four Centres were not
 made available to the Committee, the matter was referred to the Director,
 School Education & Literacy, Shri J.D. Sangma, MCS, and in his reply
 vide letter No. DSEL-7/APPT/LP/2009/18 dated 12/07/2012 (2013), stated
 that there is no such documents as original merit list of Jowai, Amlarem,
 Tura and Dadenggre and also other Sub-divisions (except Shillong) as the
 Committee was not asked to submit any such merit list. The above
 statement proves that the merit lists prepared by the Member Secretaries
 were discarded and later a new one was prepared to suit with the
 tampered marks scored by the candidates. It also points out that the
 above cited para 31 of the Notification was deliberately violated in as far
 as the merit list is concerned so as to enable the above Director to
 prepare the merit lists arbitrarily. In this regard, the Director, EM&E, „has
 indulged in deliberate complicity in the matter of vitiating or otherwise
 interfering with the selection process‟. When in his own statement also
 which was recorded by the Committee on 2nd July, 2013, he had divulged
 the truth that „the serial numbers were jumbled up and interchanged to
 give preferential in order of merit to the candidates recommended by the
 different MLAs and Ministers‟ and that this was done „on the advice of the
 then Hon‟ble Minister of Education on herself.‟
 Further, from his Statement, recorded and read as corrected, he
 again admitted that „it is a fact that there was a little displacement of the
 serial order of the merit list due to addition of few candidates into the list
 who were given preferential‟ as „there were names that did not appear in
 the select list‟ and that those names were recommended on „request by
 the respective Ministers and Parliamentary Secretaries of the area
 concerned.‟ 54 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 4.4 Further, in his statement, the Director, EM&E purportedly stated that „the
 reviewing of the list of qualified candidates was done in the Minister‟s
 residence.‟ This act of omission on the part of the public servant, if true, is
 unethical and unbecoming for a man of his stature and position. The
 Committee has no means to ascertain the matter. The Committee during scrutiny of the Original score sheets found
 that most of the tampering works was done in Experience, Viva Voce and
 Grand Total which indicates that the alteration of marks in the above
 Columns was intentional and malicious to make ineligible candidates
 improve their score to make them eligible and got selected.

 4.5 The Committee noted that in the Statement, recorded and read as
 corrected, deposed before it that at Sl. 1 of the Statement itself that in her
 capacity as the then Education Minister, she „was not aware that any
 Officer has indulged in deliberate complicity in the matter of vitiating or
 otherwise interfering with the selection process.‟ This open declaration on
 the part of the then Minister of Education contradicts the statement made
 by the Director, EM&E and the relevant records on the case. The
 Committee has no means to ascertain the claims and counter claims. The Member Secretary of Jowai and Amlarem Centres stated that
 when any inadvertent error was detected in the final score sheet,
 correction was made then and there and such error was always initialed.
 In this regard, the Committee found only few initialed signatures of the
 Member Secretary in the score sheets of the above two Centres whereas
 it is seen that there were massive corrections without initial which proves
 that massive tampering was done to those favoured candidates.

 4.6 The Committee found that there were over-making in the score sheets of
 most of the selected candidates particularly in experience and viva voce to
 forcefully make ineligible candidates eligible and got selected. This is also
 seen in the allegations made by the petitioners in Writ Petitions under
 scrutiny which is proved to be true. 4.7 Number of tainted and non-tainted candidates: (underlining supplied for emphasis)

 In Part-6 of the report, the Committee referred to point I-(C) of the

Terms of Reference, where it was required to ascertain if any authority had

indulged in deliberate complicity in the matter of vitiating or otherwise

interfering with the selection process. The Committee observed that within

the limited timeline, it had decided to examine only eight officers, of which,

the Statements of four Member-Secretaries of the respective Centres and

of the alleged Chairperson of Shillong Centre had already been 56 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

reproduced in the discussion relating to the respective Centres. The

Committee reproduced and dealt with the statements made by the

Principal Secretary, the Director, and the Minister of Education; and as

regards the statement of Minister, made the comments that nepotism and

favoritism in public offices if allowed to continue abated would result in

bleak future of human resource potentialities and recommended that the

State Government should „henceforth‟ nip in bud such arbitrariness and

nepotism. While commenting on the statement of the Director, the

Committee not only pointed out the contradictions vis-a-vis the statement

of the Minister but, also made categorical findings that large scale

tampering of the score sheets was carried out and it was true that several

interpolations were made so as to accommodate the candidates

recommended by the public representatives. The Committee also referred to the facts relating to the

recommendations by the public representatives and found such acts to be

of interference with the selection process resulting in malpractices and

nepotism and at the same time, denying appointment to the deserving

candidates. The Committee also recommended that the candidates

recommended by the public representatives, whether appointed or not, be

disqualified. The Committee reproduced the same list of public

representatives and the number of candidates recommended by them as

occurring in the report of CBI. Part-6 of the Committee‟s report, also having

a bearing on the matter, is reproduced hereunder while omitting the matter

relating to the statement of Principal Secretary to the Government for the

same being not much relevant for present purpose4: 4 6.3 Comments on the statement of the then Minister of Education: WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters (ii) In para 6.2 (ii), she stated that when the file of the list of candidates
 for appointment as Assistant Teachers was put up to her, she has
 just signed and approved the file containing the long result sheet of
 a whole lot of names and candidates and have not issued any order
 or direction whatsoever. (iii) In para 6.2 (iii) & (iv) above, she stated that no complaints came to
 her knowledge before and after the list of successful candidates
 was published and she got familiar with the irregularities in the
 process of recruitment of Assistant Teachers in Government L.P.
 Schools only from the media reports but nothing came to her notice
 or brought up in file officially. (iv) The then Education Minister defended herself that she has not
 intervened in any way in the process of selection of Assistant
 Teaches in Government L.P. Schools. However, the Committee on scrutiny of all the records made
available to it has noted with grave concern that in this instant case of
recruitment of Assistant Teachers in Government L.P. Schools, there are
innumerable instances of irregularities in act of arbitrariness, nepotism and
favouritism on the part of the person(s) who hold public office in whatever
position and if it is allowed to continue unabated and unchecked would
only result in a bleak future for the State rich human resource
potentialities. As such, the Committee strongly recommends that the State
Government should henceforth nip in the bud such arbitrariness and
nepotism by taking a strong view on the matter. The Committee recommends the following steps and measures: division concerned as prescribed in the modified Government
 Notification dated 24th November, 2008. (ii) The Members of the Selection Committee were nominated by the
 Directorate of Educational Research & Training, Meghalaya,
 Shillong and the Chairman by the Deputy Commissioner of the
 concerned district as per Government Notification which also
 includes one member i.e. the Headmaster of Government Upper
 Primary School as one of the member to be nominated by the then
 Directorate of Elementary & Mass Education, Meghalaya, Shillong. (iii) As regards to result of the Shillong (Sadar) Sub-division, I wish to
 state that after receiving complaints from some candidates and
 parents about the anomaly and irregular conducting of interviews,
 the Directorate made a preliminary enquiry and found that the
 Interview conducted by Selection Committee at Shillong was
 irregular as the Members were not as per the composition of the
 Committee constituted by the Government in the Education
 Department vide the Notification dated 24/11/2008. (iv) It was also a fact that the Selection Committee conducted the
 Personal Interview in the absence of the Chairman authorised for
 the purpose and that the Member Secretary, Shri A.Sun, the then
 Joint Director of Elementary & Mass Education, has himself acted
 as Chairman. There were also sittings when Interviews was
 conducted by only two members. Later after a lapse of few days,
 the matter had gone to the knowledge of the public. (v) In view of the above and in good faith, it was considered then as
 necessary to review the entire result and score sheets submitted by
 the Joint Director and Member Secretary of the Committees. The
 fact remains that convening the Interview would mean time
 consuming and there would be public resentment and whole
 process cannot be completed within December 2009. Hence, the
 Directorate decided to review the entire result without re-convening
 the Personal Interview. While reviewing and re-checking the result,
 utmost care was taken to see that all genuine candidates furnished
 by the Member Secretary is considered in the select list. (vi) As the declared vacancy is 81 and number recommended is only
 79, it was decided to add more names of successful candidates to
 the list. (vii) On the advice of the then Hon‟ble Minister of Education, Dr.
 A.Lyngdoh, a number of candidates were added into the list making
 the total eligible candidates to 180 to be published in the near
 future as second list. (viii) I carried out this exercise of reviewing the Select List in consultation
 with the then Hon‟ble Minister of Education on her own verbal
 orders. WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters (ix) I also wish to mention here that this review exercise have not
 deprived any of the candidates recommended by the Selection
 Committee of East Khasi Hills, Shillong Sadar. (x) However, it is not a fact that we have erased or removed the name
 of the candidates recommendation by the said Committee but only
 few minor corrections on errors and omissions to make the score
 sheet free of errors were made and hence correcting fluid was
 used. (xi) Further, I wish to mention here that the serial numbers were
 jumbled up and interchanged to give preferential in order of merit to
 the candidates recommended by the different MLAs and Ministers
 on the advice of the then Hon‟ble Minister of Education herself.
 However, this interchange of serial order was affected only among
 candidates who secured the same marks. (xii) It is also a fact that experiences marks of few candidates
 recommended by some Ministers were added in the score sheet
 just to put them in the first and second waiting list but not in the
 select list. This has not in any way deprived the candidates from the
 list who were originally selected but it is a fact that there was a little
 displacement of the serial order of the merit list due to addition of
 few candidates into the list who were given preferential. (xiii) I am also to state that the reviewing of the list of qualified
 candidates was done in the Minister‟s residence only for the
 Shillong Centre which was misconstrued by the CBI who made to
 appear in the CBI Report that it was done for all Centres in the
 State. (xiv) As regards the result of other Selection Committees namely, Jowai,
 Amlarem and Shillong, the Directorate received several requests
 from Ministers of the State Government for inclusion of the names
 of their candidates. We verified the list given by them and found
 that most of their names already appeared in the select lists. There
 were names that did not appear in the select lists. However, as
 requested by the respective Ministers and Parliamentary
 Secretaries of the area concerned, we inserted some of the names
 to be in the waiting list by interpolating the marks in the Score
 Sheets. (xv) As regards to the main select list given by the Selection Committee
 East Khasi Hills, Shillong Sadar, some of the serial numbers of the
 candidates who scored similar marks were jumbled up to give
 preference to the candidates recommended by the Ministers. This
 however, have not affected the names of the candidates who were
 already in the list but it is a fact that there were slight changes in
 their serial order in the merit list as well as the names of some
 candidates which were displaced and appeared in the waiting list.
 This have not resulted in the deletion or exclusion of the names as
 recommended by the Selection Committee. Many of the names that
 appeared in the waiting list were not published because of the
 limited vacancies of post. However, it was expected that their
 names would be considered for appointment in the subsequent
 vacancies in the near future. WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

(xvi) As regards with the list of Ministries/MLAs/MDCs and others who
 have made a recommendation, the CBI has seized the file from the
 Office during my absence on official tour to New Delhi. Later, when
 I came back I was called by the CBI office and the records and files
 seized by them were shown to me and I was asked to sign in the
 seizure list prepared by them. Later on, after few days a statement
 on my behalf was also prepared and finalised by the CBI
 themselves and presented to me for my signature. I read the
 statement and requested the Investigation Officer of the CBI to
 correct the statements which were not relevant and incorrectly
 recorded. The Investigation Officer agreed to correct the statement
 as requested by me and therefore I appended my signature in the
 last page of the statement. However, today the 2nd of July 2013, I
 saw the CBI report and my statement for the first time as a
 misconstrued fact. 6.7 Comments on the Statement of Director, E & ME, (now DSE&L): WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters (vi) The statement at para 6.6 (ix) is not true as it is seen that the
 review exercise has deprived 60 candidates of their rightful
 place in the select list. (vii) The statement at para 6.6(x) is found to be false as it is seen
 that there was large scale tampering by applying white
 correcting fluid in the score sheets of the five Centres under
 scrutiny. (viii) The jumbling up and interchanging of serial numbers of
 candidates are found to be contradictory and highly
 confusing as it is found that only 19 candidates were
 retained in the select list published by the Directorate. (ix) In para 6.6 (xii), the Director admits that on the basis of the
 recommendation made by some Ministers, some candidates
 were added in the list but after comparing with the original
 list, it is found that some candidates without any
 recommendations were deleted and replaced by the
 candidates having recommendations. (x) The facts stated in para 6.6 (xiii) that the list of candidates of
 Shillong Centre was reviewed in the residence of the then
 Education Minister contradicts with the statement of the said
 Minister who categorically denied that she was not aware of
 such activities. (xi) The admission of the Director in para 6.6 (xiv) that he has
 included the names of the candidates recommended by the
 respective Ministers and Parliamentary Secretaries in the
 select list and as well as in the waiting list of different
 Centres by interpolating the marks in the score sheets is
 found to be true. (xii) The statement in para 6.6 (xv) that the main select list
 submitted by the Selection Committee of Shillong Centre
 were not deleted and excluded is found to be false as it is
 detected that 60 candidates were replaced from the original
 list. (xiii) The statement made at para 6.6(xvi) regarding the list of
 Ministers/MLAs/MDCs who made the recommendations and
 which was seized by the CBI is found to be true as the
 above list was made available to the Committee for scrutiny. (xiv) From the CBI‟s Report, the Committee has ascertained the
 fact that it can draw an inference from all the above stated
 facts that there are large scale manipulations in the whole
 selection process. There are even instances of hard
 clinching evidences under Jowai Centre on the body of the
 recommendation letter of the public representatives where
 hand written instructions as "bring up", "to be listed" "bring up
 from Sl. 38" etc., given on the column of each favoured
 candidates. In all such cases of hand written
 instructions/notes, the Committee recommends that the
 statement wherever such handwritten notes are seen must 64 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 be send up to the expert in the field for verification and
 authentication. 6.8 List of Public Representatives recommending candidates: Govt of Meghalaya
 Shri P.L. Tariang,Ex-MLA, 3. Co-Chairman, State Dev. 29 Amlarem - do - WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 Meghalaya 7. Shri Sanbor Shullai, MLA,
 Dy. Speaker, Government 4 Shillong - do - of Meghalay
 Shri Prestone Tynsong, 8. MLA, Government of 20 Shillong - do - Meghalaya
 Shri A.L.Hek, MLA 9. Government of 7 Shillong - do - Meghalaya
 Shri Limison D. Sangma, 10. Minister of State, 34 Dadenggre - do - List of the Public Representatives who have recommended to the DEME as per
 findings of the Committee from original documents in the CBI‟s Office

 Centres from
Sl. Name of Public Nos. of where the Remarks
No. Representative who Candidates recommended
 recommended recommended candidates
 appeared
 Detail lists of
 candidates 1. Shri Augustin D.Marak, Ex- 10 Dadenggre seized and
 MLA available in the
 CBI Office,
 Shillong 2. Shri Clement Marak, MLA, 26 Dadenggre - do - WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 The HLSC thereafter, referred to the Terms of Reference II and III

which are of formal nature and finally stated its conclusion at Part-9. In

paragraph 9.1, the Committee reiterated its recommendations of the

preceding paragraphs as noticed hereinabove and made some further

remarks in paragraphs 9.2 and 9.3 which deserve to be taken note of and

are reproduced hereunder:- After having extensively taken note of the crucial contents and

features of the report of HLSC, we may take note of another facet of the

matter; and that relates to lodging of FIRs against the manipulations in the

selection process in question. The FIR/FIRs

 During the course of submissions, when the facts concerning a 67 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

pending FIR relating to this matter were pointed out, we had requisitioned

the case diary pertaining to Laitumkhrah PS Case No.62 (7) of 2011 and

have perused the same. It is noticed that the said FIR was filed by one of the candidates of

Shillong Sadar Centre alleging, inter alia, that she was cheated and

deprived of job opportunity with erasure of her marks in the compilation

sheet. On these allegations, the said Laitumkhrah P.S. Case No.62 (7) of

2011 was registered on 20.07.2011 for offence under Section 408 IPC. In

this FIR, the Investigating Officer interrogated the then Director of

Elementary and Mass Education, who informed about the order passed by

the learned Single Judge of this Court for inquiry by CBI and also provided

photocopies of the documents relating to the case. The fact of the

Chairperson for Shillong Centre having not turned out for conducting the

interview was also noticed by the Investigating Officer and then, some of

the board members were examined. However, thereafter, the Investigating

Officer was changed and it was noticed that some of the documents had

either been sent to CBI or had been seized by CBI and then, the Division

Bench had allowed the constitution of High Level Scrutiny Committee; and,

as per the Directorate, after receiving the documents from CBI, the same

were to be handed over to HLSC and were to be made available to the

Investigating Officer only thereafter. Interestingly, in relation to this very

selection process, other persons had also lodged FIRs and in that regard,

an order was passed by the Judicial Magistrate, Shillong in C.R. Case

No.1287 of 2012 on 04.12.2012 that on the request made on behalf of the

Superintendent of Police, East Khasi Hills District, Shillong, the FIRs

submitted by others may also be included as part of the case record of

Laitumkhrah P.S. Case No.62 (7) of 2011 with insertion of Sections

120B / 167 / 466 / 34 IPC; and, accordingly, the Superintendent of Police 68 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

informed the Assistant General of Police (R) by his letter dated 25.07.2013

that the Court had granted the prayer for insertion of other offences under

other complaints. The order dated 04.12.2012 as passed by the Judicial

Magistrate reads as under:- The Investigating Officer, thereafter, proceeded to examine some

other witnesses in the year 2013 and then, discussed the matter with the

Deputy Superintendent of Police, CBI relating to the documents which

were in possession of CBI. Thereafter, an application was made on

04.06.2014 to the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate for a direction to the

Superintendent of Police, CBI for handing over the seized documents and

this application was granted by the Chief Judicial Magistrate on

19.06.2014. However, on behalf of the CBI, an application was filed before

the Magistrate concerned pointing out that the direction for handing over of

documents to the State Police would be in conflict with the order dated

21.10.2011 as passed by the High Court. The learned Magistrate granted

this application by her order dated 25.09.2014; and, while recalling the

earlier order dated 19.06.2014, left it open for the State Police to approach

the High Court for necessary orders. It appears that thereafter, in the years

2014 and 2015, the matter kept on lingering between the Investigating 69 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

Officer and Senior Government Advocate for filing appropriate petition in

the High Court for procurement of documents. In the meantime, a writ

petition was filed in this Court alleging want of action in the said FIR, being

WP (C) No.161 of 2016: Smti. Agnes Kharshiing v. State of Meghalaya .

However, a learned Single Judge of this Court declined to entertain the

said writ petition at the given stage and disposed it of by the order dated

03.10.2016, essentially in view of the fact that the issues involved in the

case were pending before the Hon‟ble Supreme Court. All said and done,

so far the main matter in Laitumkhrah P.S. Case No.62 (7) of 2011 was

concerned, it remained stranded with exchange of communications in the

police department and with change of Investigating Officers. This had been

the status of Laitumkhrah P.S. Case No.62 (7) of 2011 when the case

diary was produced before us. Rival submissions and propositions

 As noticed, in this litigation, which has expanded beyond an ordinary

length, several parties standing at different footing and status have got

entangled. The private parties herein could be broadly categorized in

three: one being the set of such candidates who were declared

unsuccessful in the abovementioned four Centres namely, Shillong, Tura,

Jowai and Amlarem and who initiated the litigation in this Court; second

being the set of such candidates who were selected in the impugned

selection process but whose services were terminated pursuant to the

report of HLSC; and third being the other candidates who aspire induction

in service, essentially in displacement of the tainted. On the other hand is

the State Government, basically answerable to all the issues that have

arisen in the matter. Parallel to these civil litigations, an FIR relating to the

same selection process remains pending for investigation wherein, several

other complaints and allegations have been clubbed. 70 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 The Hon‟ble Supreme Court has remitted the matter to this Court to

have a fresh look in the light of the two reports of CBI and HLSC and for

decision afresh. Having regard to the subject-matter, we have heard

learned counsel representing different private parties as also the learned

Advocate General for the State with the assisting Government Advocates

at excessive length. Varying and vast submissions have been made before

us by the learned counsel for the parties but in all fairness, none has

disputed the basic requirements of law that the purity of a public selection

process remains non-negotiable. For a proper comprehension of the

submissions made and propositions put forward by the learned counsel for

the parties, we may first summarize the material points urged by the

learned counsel appearing for the respective candidates. The submissions on behalf of the learned counsel appearing for

those unselected candidates who initiated this litigation and approached

the Court after issuance of the select list can be divided in two sects: One

being on behalf of the candidates who have been found eligible and

unblemished by HLSC. It has been submitted that these candidates

deserve to be appointed for having been found entitled thereto. On the

other hand, on behalf of such candidates who are otherwise untainted but

have not been found eligible by HLSC, it is submitted that the HLSC report

deserves to be set aside qua them and they deserve to be appointed. The large chunk of the private parties in these matters is of the

second set, being the persons whose services were terminated pursuant to

the report of HLSC. Vast and multifarious submissions by different learned

counsel on behalf of such candidates could be summarized as follows: (i)

that these candidates have been victimized in this matter and have been

branded as tainted without hearing before making of the report, whether by

CBI or HLSC; (ii) that the termed „tainted‟ is stigmatic and violates the right 71 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

of the person under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and hence, a

candidate cannot be termed as tainted without adequate opportunity of

hearing and rebuttal; (iii) that proper evidence were not led in the inquiry of

CBI or HLSC and due process of law was not followed before issuing the

termination orders; (iv) that there were no grounds on which these

candidates could have been termed as tainted because they had no role in

any of the alleged manipulations; (v) that no show case notice was served

before termination of their services; (vi) that those who received show

cause notices submitted their replies but the same were not taken into

consideration; (vii) that the reports of CBI and HLSC were not furnished to

the candidates before termination of their services and the termination

orders were issued in an arbitrary manner; (viii) that there had been

violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India inasmuch as all the

candidates involved in the selection have not been treated in the same

way; (ix) that the judicial powers of adjudication and finding should not

have been delegated to CBI or HLSC; (x) that there are stark

contradictions in the reports of CBI and HLSC; (xi) that the HLSC was

constituted in contravention of the judgment dated 16.08.2012 and the

officers of the same department should not have been part thereof; (xii)

that the HLSC did not stand up to the expectation of the High Court and

carried out the process with oblique intents to save certain persons directly

responsible for interference in the process; (xiii) that there had been

contradictions in the notification as regards the cut-off date on which the

age of the candidate because as per the notification dated 24.11.2008 it

should have been first day of January of the concerned year but as per the

advertisement dated 10.12.2008, the age was to be reckoned as on first

day of December 2008; (xiv) that several over-age candidates have been

appointed and continued even contrary to the terms of the said notification 72 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

and advertisement. On behalf of the third set of candidates, who later on approached

this Court seeking induction in service, the submissions have been that

they also deserve the same benefit as arising out of the judgment dated

16.08.2012; and they deserve to be placed in the select list in

displacement of the tainted candidates. During the course of submissions, learned counsel for the respective

candidates have referred to the decisions in R. v. Sussex Justices: While justifying the orders of termination, the learned Advocate

General has essentially submitted: (i) that show cause notice was duly 73 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

issued by the Director, School Education and Literacy, Shillong to the

candidates who were found tainted by the HLSC; (ii) that in the

background of the facts and the nature of the allegations, it was not

necessary to call every tainted candidate individually to defend his/her

case; (iii) that the tainted candidates were the beneficiaries of the

manipulation in the score sheets and as such, their services were rightly

terminated in compliance with the judgment dated 16.08.2012; (iv) that the

termination orders were issued by the succeeding Director and not by the

Director against whom allegations were leveled; (v) that the tainted

candidates cannot claim parity with the candidates who are found genuine

and as such, the terminated candidates cannot pray for setting aside of the

entire selection process; (vi) that the unsuccessful candidates who did not

approach the Court earlier, and whose writ petitions were dismissed on the

ground of delay and laches, do not deserve any consideration at this

length of time; (vii) that the candidates who had participated in the

selecting process had accepted the terms and clauses of the

advertisement dated 10.12.2008 without challenging the same before any

Court of Law and are barred from raising any plea against the terms and

conditions of the advertisement. The learned Advocate General has further submitted that the age of

the candidates who had been continuously serving as School Teachers for

not less than 5 years as on 24.11.2008 had been calculated as on

24.11.2003; and if they were found to be within the age limit of 18-27 years

(32 years for SC/ST) as on 24.11.2003, they were eligible to apply as per

Clause 1(d) of the advertisement dated 10.12.2008. Thus, according to the

learned Advocate General, the concerned candidates had rightly been

taken as eligible. WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 With reference to the aforesaid facts and submissions, the learned

Advocate General has strenuously argued that there had been nothing

wrong in the action taken in pursuance to the recommendation of HLSC

and in compliance of the order passed by this Court and such action of the

State Government deserves to be upheld. The learned Advocate General

has also submitted that the Government may be allowed to take steps for

filling up the vacancies which have been arisen after the aforesaid

termination of the services of the candidates of the year 2014 as also other

vacancies which have been occurred due to retirement/resignation of

some of the teachers. The learned Advocate General has referred to the decision in the

case of Pathumma v. State of Kerala : AIR 1978 SC 771 in support of the

submissions that the terminated candidates cannot claim equal rights with

untainted candidates and cannot seek cancellation of the entire process. The learned Advocate General has also referred to the decision in Bhavnagar University v. Palitana Sugar Mill (P) Ltd. & Ors : (2003) 2

SCC 111 to submit that the decisions cited by the respective counsel for

the private parties are not applicable to the present case for material

difference of facts. We may point out one facet of material facts that has surfaced

during the course of submissions that several such candidates who were

found tainted were yet continuing and their services were not terminated;

and further that even some tainted candidates were later on inducted in

service by way of so-called ad hoc or contractual engagement. Several

affidavits, counter, rejoinder, sur-rejoinder were filed in this regard in WA

Nos.52 of 2011, 57 of 2011, 63 of 2011 and 65 of 2011. We need not

elaborate on all such affidavits but suffice would be to take note of the 75 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

facts as finally noticed during the course of hearing. We have indicated the

crux of these factors in the order dated 12.06.2017 that reads as under:- Further, as regards the affidavit filed in WA No. 63 of 2011 and 65
 of 2011, while stating about one candidate that her name does not appear
 in the HLSC report, a cursory statement has been made as regards the
 other candidates as under: The above averments on the part of the Government being yet
 wanting in particulars and specification, we have queried about the status
 of these persons, to which the learned Advocate General submits that as
 per his instructions, most the referred persons have been appointed
 temporarily and on adhoc basis for a period of 59 days or so but their
 services have been continued from time to time in the interest of the
 students. Learned counsel appearing for the contesting parties, particularly
 who have filed the affidavits in WA No. 52 of 2011 and 57 of 2011, may
 submit a synopsis with clarification about the particulars of the referred
 candidates and the recommendations with the observations in their regard
 in the reports of the CBI and HLSC. All the learned counsel have otherwise concluded on their
 submissions. Put up for filing the aforementioned clarifications/synopsis on
 16.06.2017, as prayed." (underlining supplied for emphasis)

 Before proceeding further, we deem it apposite to point out that

during the course of hearing, learned counsel for the parties have also

made various submissions pointing out discrepancies in the report of 76 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

HLSC compared to the report of CBI. We have found most of such

submissions correct on facts after having perused the two reports as also

the accompanying documents including the score sheets. In all fairness,

learned Advocate General has not attempted to justify any such

discrepancy and has been forthright in accepting the facts which remain

indisputable and undeniable. Having thus taken note of all the relevant background aspects, the

essential features of the reports of CBI and HLSC and the material part of

the submissions made, we may embark upon the relevant issues that have

arisen in the matter. The exercise of HLSC is flawed

 Before dealing with the other aspects relating to the selection

process in question as emerging from the records placed before us and

from the said reports of CBI and HLSC, we find it rather necessary to

indicate flaws in the composition of HLSC as also in the exercise

undertaken by it. It remains indisputable that all the three members of the Scrutiny

Committee so constituted by the Principal Secretary to the Government of

Meghalaya in its Education Department were, in fact, the functionaries of

the Government in this very department i.e., the Education Department.

This very department was responsible for the selection process in question

and there were serious allegations of unfairness and manipulations. On the

bold claims as made on behalf of the State Government, the Division

Bench of the Gauhati High Court assumed that the Government would

honestly ensure a proper inquiry in the matter and take the matter to its

logical conclusion. The Division Bench, therefore, left it for the Principal

Secretary to the Government of Meghalaya in its Education Department to

constitute a committee of appropriate officials. It was never the order of the 77 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

Division Bench that the Committee would only be comprised of the

persons of this very department. While acting on such directions of the

Division Bench which were issued essentially on the basis of its own

assertions, the Government, if acting fair and forthright, would have taken

care to include at least some such officers/persons in the Committee, who

were not connected with the Education Department. The composition of

HLSC fell short of propriety, even if we are not construing it as entirely

illegal. However, this aspect is, perforce, required to be indicated for the

reason that we have found several such shortcomings in the conduct of

HLSC, which were avoidable and would have been avoided by any

independent, impartial, candid and forthright inquiring body. Another but fundamental flaw had been that HLSC did not, truly and

unfaithfully, carry out its mandate and avoided the uncomfortable issues.

The Division Bench had specifically directed that the matter of "selected"

as also "unselected" candidates shall be examined in such an inquiry. We

have taken note of the report of HLSC with deep dissatisfaction that the

HLSC chose not to examine the matters of unselected candidates. Due examination of all the cases, of all the candidates of all the

Centres under reference, was the basic requirement of any objective

inquiry in the matter. The question had not only been of manipulation in

relation to the marks of the selected candidates but, in order to make such

a selection possible, the manipulations had to be, and in fact had been, in

the marks of other candidates also. HLSC, thus, carried out half of its

mandate and left the other half unattended. Apart from the above, another major and rather disturbing feature is

that HLSC has failed to live up to the spirit of the terms of its reference as

framed on the basis of the judgment of Division Bench. As noticed, the

Division Bench had, inter alia, indicated in its judgment that the State 78 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

Government will not spare any officer or authority, howsoever high, if found

indulging in deliberate complicity in the matter of "vitiating or otherwise

interfering" with the selection process. The Committee indeed found that

the public representatives had made several recommendations for

appointment of the candidates. In this regard, the Committee chose to put

the guarded and softer expressions in its report while saying that "the act

of the public representatives in recommending their favourite candidates

has in a way directly or indirectly vitiated or otherwise interfered with the

whole selection process". The Committee, of course, viewed this as

malpractice and nepotism resulting in denying the appointment of

deserving candidates and selecting the unqualified, meritless and

undeserving. The Committee reproduced the list of the public

representatives, who made recommendations but stopped at that. Even as

regards the Minister of Education, the Committee noted her statement but

then, made generalized comments that there were innumerable instances

of irregularities and that nepotism and favouritism on the part of the

persons holding public office, if allowed to continue would only result in

bleak future for the human resource potentialities; and thereafter, made the

recommendations only to the effect that the State Government should

clearly mention in the advertisement that the candidates canvassing

directly or indirectly shall be disqualified and to display the list of such

candidates. In contrast to this, the Committee made rather scathing

comments on the statements of the Director concerned in paragraph 6.7 of

the report. Put in a nutshell, it is but clear that in relation to the terms of

Reference I-(C), the Committee, though did not deny the manipulations

and even interferences by public representatives but stopped short of

recommending concrete action against the concerned persons. Apart from the above, during the course of hearing we have noticed 79 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

several other flaws in the exercise carried out by the HLSC. In this regard,

we may refer to the parts of order sheets drawn on 23.05.2017 and

24.05.2017 as follows: In view of what has been observed above, we find most of the

questions raised on behalf of the private parties on the report of HLSC to

be justified and in our view, the report is flawed inasmuch as: (i) the

composition of HLSC was not as per the spirit of the order dated

16.08.2012 and at least some person not connected with the Education

Department ought to have been inducted as an independent member in

the Committee; (ii) the HLSC, whatever composed, did not carry out whole

of the mandate of Division Bench, by not examining the cases of the

unselected candidates; (iii) the HLSC did not make serious attempts to

submit cogent and logical recommendations as regards Point I-(C) of the

Terms of Reference, relating to interference by other persons vitiating the

process; and (iv) the scrutiny by HLSC had been not free from several

errors. WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 In an overall comprehension of the matter, we have not an iota of

doubt that the exercise in the name of HLSC was farcical and was only a

cover-up, aimed at saving and shielding the persons who had, with

impunity, hijacked and polluted the system and who ought to have been

brought to be book and ought to have been sternly dealt with. As noticed,

in the first place, the Committee avoided scrutinizing all the candidates of

the Centres in question though it was under the mandate to do so.

Secondly, whatever was carried out, had been that of a superficial scrutiny

and some obvious cases of manipulations were left out. Thirdly and most

significantly, even after finding that public representatives had, in grossest

disregard of law and with impunity, made the recommendations; and the

officers altered the score sheets and spoiled the entire system, the

persons making recommendations were conveniently left out by

suggesting that the State Government should take steps so as to prevent

such happenings in future. It is noticed that at every relevant place where it

was required to reach to the heart of the matter and to render logical

findings with candid recommendation, HLSC adopted the softer route of

suggesting removal of some tainted candidates and retention of untainted;

however, the painters of such taint and the perpetrators of such

contamination, despite having been identified with documentary evidence,

were simply left out. We were constrained to observe that had the said High Level

Scrutiny Committee been true to its task, the only logical course would

have been of scrapping the entire selection process in relation to the five

Centres in question with reasonable relaxation for participation in fresh

recruitment to the untainted candidates but at the same time, of adopting

civil as also criminal proceedings for proper investigation and trial of all the

persons involved in the scam, be it the instigators, be it the motivators, be 81 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

it the operators, be it the manipulators and be it the beneficiaries. Similarly,

if the Government concerned was true to its duties as also faithful to its

bold proclamations before the Division Bench in the earlier round of

litigation5, it would have, after receiving the half-hearted report of HLSC,

taken the things to their logical conclusion by issuing necessary orders for

booking the polluters as also for inquiry in relation to the other centres too.

However, the HLSC as also the State Government belied the faith reposed

in them by the Court in the judgment dated 16.08.2012. Having said so and despite having found that the High Level

Scrutiny Committee did not faithfully discharge all its duties and

responsibilities, we do not propose to reject its report altogether because

most of the facts found therein are apparent on the face of the record and

remain indisputable; and hence, the consequences ought to follow.

THE SELECTION PROCESS FOR THE FIVE CENTRES IN QUESTION

IS VITIATED AND IS REQUIRED TO BE ANNULLED

 We have minutely examined the report of the CBI as also the report

of the HLSC and a substantial part of the records forming the basis of such

reports; and have clearly come to the conclusion that so far the five

Centres in question are concerned, the selection process stands vitiated;

and could only be annulled. This is for the following principal reasons: On the facts that have surfaced, it is but evident that several of the

public representatives, who are otherwise entrusted by the society to 5 as noticed repeatedly in the judgment dated 16.08.2012 82 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

maintain the rule of law and to uphold the basic constitutional principles of

fair play, indulged in such open defiance of law that the selection process

was reduced to a mockery. The letters/communications from the public

representatives, mostly on their official letter-heads and bearing the

signatures, which came in possession of CBI, and which could not be

denied even by HLSC, unfailingly show that practically all such interloping

public representatives assumed that the selection process was their

personal property and they could ask for any share in it as desired. All the

relevant particulars like the names of such public representatives with the

offices held by them and the number of candidates recommended by them

have already been stated in the report of CBI as also in the report of HLSC

(as reproduced hereinbefore). It has also been found that almost all of their

recommendees were indeed appointed; and for this purpose, the score-

sheets were manipulated. Though, for the order proposed to be passed in

these matters, so as to handover investigation to CBI, we are not

pronouncing finally against any particular person but, the proper

comprehension of these matters would remain incomplete if the glaring

examples of interference in the selection process by the public

representatives are not indicated in this judgment. Under the compelling

circumstances, we need to indicate the manner of stating the

desires/recommendations in some of the letters/communications available

in record. A Minister stated his desire in the letters dated 14.10.2009 and

18.11.2009 to the Director, Elementary & Mass Education in the following

terms:- WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 One Political Secretary to the Chief Minister sent a letter dated

07.12.2009 to the Chief Minister to the following effect: One M.L.A. wrote to the Minister concerned in the letter dated

23.10.2009 as under: Another M.L.A. took care to write a so-called „confidential‟ letter to

the Minister concerned requesting in the following terms: One Co-Chairman of State Development Reforms Commission

asked the Minister concerned to do the needful help for the candidates

referred by him; and this was his top priority in the following terms: Even a letter dated 01.07.2009 from Speaker, Meghalaya Legislative

Assembly is on record suggesting to the Minister concerned some of the

names of the candidates and the desire in the following terms: One Co-Chairman of the State Planning Board sent letter dated

23.10.2009 to the Parliamentary Secretary dealing with Elementary &

Mass Education Department confirming that he had telephonic discussion 84 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

regarding the matter and was sending list of aspiring candidates of his

constituency. One M.L.A. sent a letter to the Minister concerned on

13.11.2009 stating "Pl. accommodate these seven names." One

Parliamentary Secretary sent several letters dated 18.05.2009,

05.03.2009, 21.05.2009 and 19.10.2009 giving out several names of the

candidates at different blocks while stating that such candidates were

qualified and the names were being sent for consideration. One Minister

wrote to the concerned Minister with reference to their telephonic

discussion that he was sending the names of candidates for favour of

consideration. The Deputy Speaker suggested to the Minister concerned

under his communication dated 09.07.2009 that an order be passed to

appoint one particular person of his area who had appeared for interview.

The Deputy Speaker even issued specific directions in his letter dated

16.07.2009 to appoint certain candidates who had allegedly passed out the

interview in top position. The examples are excessive in number. We have only indicated a

few of them to point out that the large number of public representatives

practically assumed that the matter of public employment by open

competition could also be dealt with by way of their desires and

recommendations. We refrain from commenting anything further in that

regard but would leave the matter to be thoroughly investigated by the

investigating agency without being influenced by any comments in these

proceedings. The comments herein are essentially for the purpose of our

findings that the things had been so rotten that any proposition to even

partially save such a selection process could only be at the cost of public

morality and character and, obviously, cannot be countenanced.

Large Scale Manipulations 85 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 The Second reason is on the basic facts that are manifest on the

face of the record that there had been gigantic manipulations by way of

obliterations, insertions and cuttings in the score sheets of the Centres in

question. The minute details in that regard have been specified in the

report of the CBI as also in the report of the HLSC; and after perusing the

said reports and after perusing a large number of score-sheets and other

documents, we have not even a wee bit of hesitation in recording a clear

finding that there had been large scale manipulations in the five Centres in

question and the entire selection process in relation to these Centres

cannot but be said to have been vitiated. In the given set of facts and

circumstances and looking to the enormity of manipulations, there will not

be any justification to make an attempt to sift the grain (if any) from the

chaff. It is noticed that the matters of alterations and manipulations had not

been few or far between; rather they had been too excessive in number,

practically acquiring an all-engulfing status. It had been a matter of such

inconceivable black deeds with white fluid where the entire process could

only be cancelled as being fraudulent. The CBI and HLSC in their reports

had not been wrong in indicating large scale tampering of the score

sheets. The only flaw in this regard on the part of HLSC had been that it

had missed out some more obvious errors. In any case, the present one had not been a matter of some

irregularities here or there. In the given scenario, it is well-nigh impossible

to segregate the real clean one from the tainted. Hence, it is not possible

to accede to anyone‟s claim to be continued in appointment or to be

appointed on the ground that he/she had not been found blemished. It is

the entire selection process which is flawed. Once the entire process is

flawed, it could only be quashed. WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 The vastness and magnitude of manipulations could also be noticed

from the final summing up of the number of candidates found tainted by

the HLSC that had been a whopping 268 out of 365 appointed, which

means that nearly 70% of the appointed candidates are found tainted. This

is apart from the fact that the manipulations carried out in relation to the

alleged unsuccessful candidates have not been taken into account and it

has not been found as to how many of the other unselected candidates

were deprived in converse manner by downward revision of their marks. If

this process is taken up, it would be difficult to say even for the candidates

who are otherwise not found tainted that they were meritorious to be

selected in preference to the other unselected persons. The vastness of

manipulation has, thus, vitiated the entire process and the same could only

be quashed. Other factors: The fundamental principle in Sussex Justices‟ case (supra) that

justice should not only be done, but it should also be manifestly seen to be

done is neither of any quarrel nor of debate. Similarly, the principle in the

case of Metropolitan Properties (supra) on inferring bias due to interest

involved are also not of any debate. So far the other decisions cited by the learned counsel for the

parties are concerned, it remains fundamental that the present case is

required to be decided on its peculiar and singular fact situation and

appropriate course of action has to be adopted after a comprehensive view

of the matter. The decision in Benny T.D. (supra) was rendered in the

circumstances that the allegations regarding large scale malpractice in

recruitment by a cooperative bank, were not based on essential

particulars. In the case of Sadananda Halo (supra), the Court came to the

conclusion that the complaint about postponement of the dates of interview

in the recruitment process was not justified and it was also not proper to

act on sample survey of the candidates through Judicial Officers. Therein,

it was also held that the unsuccessful candidates after participating in the

selection process could not indulge in a roving inquiry. In the case of Onkar Lal Bajaj (supra) relating to en masse cancellation of the retail

outlets, LPG distributors etc., the Hon‟ble Supreme Court held that such an

en masse cancellation without proper application of mind and with clubbing

of those against whom there was no allegation with the handful of those

against whom there was allegation of political connection and patronage

was arbitrary and resulted in treating unequals as equals. 89 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 In the case of Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra) the allegations were

against the Chairman of Punjab Public Service Commission of getting

large number of persons appointed on extraneous considerations; and the

State Government decided to cancel the entire selection made for

recruitment to PCS (Executive Branch) and on the recommendation of

High Court, also terminated the services of the officers appointed to PCS

(Judicial Branch) against the vacancies of the years 1998, 1999 and 2000.

In the given set of facts and circumstances, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court

observed that it was difficult to accept that it was absolutely impossible for

the State to separate the innocent people from the tainted ones; and by

appointing an independent Scrutiny Committee, it was possible to sift the

evidence by an independent body. Thus, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court did

not approve of the en masse cancellation of appointment and found it just

and proper to direct the exercise for segregating the tainted from non-

tainted. As regards judicial services, the matter did not finish with the

aforesaid decision but again travelled to the Supreme Court in the case of

High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh v. State of Punjab

and Ors : (2010) 11 SCC 684, where the Hon‟ble Supreme Court found it

just and proper to allow appointment or re-appointment to the candidates

who had no blemish to answer but while making it clear that such a

decision was being rendered only to work out the equities and in view of

the earlier decision that tainted be separated from non-tainted. The

decision in Joginder Pal (supra) had been in relation to the same matter

concerning the PCS (Executive Branch) candidates and for the same

reasons, where segregation was found possible, the untainted candidates

were allowed to join their duties. On the other hand, noticeable it is that in the case of Krishan 90 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters Yadav (supra), where the entire selection process of taxation Inspectors

was found vitiated by fraud, nepotism, favouritism and arbitrariness with

tampering of final record and other documents, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court

observed that "fraud has reached to its crescendo"; and that such foul

deeds could less be perpetrated. In the given fact situation and after

finding systematic fraud, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court set aside the entire

selection process while observing as under:- In the case of O. Chakradhar (supra), again, when the Hon‟ble

Supreme Court found that mischief in conducting the selection was wide

spread and all-pervasive, affecting the entire result and it was difficult to

identify the persons unlawfully and wrongfully deprived of selection, the

whole selection process was cancelled. The Supreme Court held that the

selection could be cancelled without issuing individual show cause notice

to each person selected. In the given context, the Supreme Court said: At this juncture. It appears apposite to refer to the orders passed by

Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Nidhi Kaim‟s case that arose in the

circumstances that the Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board

(VYAPAM) cancelled the results of the appellants of their professional

MBBS course, on the ground that they had secured the admission to the

course by resorting to unfair means during Pre-Medical Test. All the writ

petitions challenging such orders were dismissed by the High Court. The

orders of the High Court were affirmed by the Division Bench of the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court on 15.02.2016 in the case reported as Nidhi Kaim

& Anr. Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. : (2016) 7 SCC 615.

However, there was divergence of views in the Division Bench as regards

the final relief in the matter and hence, the matter was placed before

Hon‟ble Three-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court. Hon‟ble Three-Judge

Bench ruled against granting of any relief even under Article 142 of the

Constitution of India to the persons who procured admission by dubious

methods and held that it would not be proper to legitimize such

admissions. In the course of the said decision7, the Hon‟ble Three-Judge

Bench of the Supreme Court indicated the primacy and supremacy of the

rule of law and of national character as under:- WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 The ideals indicated and the principles propounded in the above,

with contextual variations, equally apply to the present case. There is, yet another perspective. The whole matter relates to the

appointment of Assistant Teachers in the Lower Primary Schools. It had

been a selection process before the notification dated 23.08.2010 by the

National Council for Children Education [„NCTE‟] laying down the minimum

qualifications for a person to be eligible for appointment as a teacher in a

primary school in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 23(1) of the

Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009; and no

contentions have been urged in relation to the basic legality of the process

as taken up under the notification dated 24.11.2008. In this view of the

matter, we have not entered into any other aspect but it appears necessary

to point out that the relevance and seriousness of such right to education

has again been highlighted by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of State of U.P. and Another v. Anand Kumar Yadav and Ors : 2017 (8)

Scale 220 while approving the order of the Allahabad High Court, whereby

absorption of untrained persons (shiksha mitras) not carrying the requisite

qualifications was declared unconstitutional. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court

has reiterated the fundamentals that the right to free and compulsory

education is one of the significant right and only the qualified teachers

have to be appointed. In the said case, the persons affected were about

1.78 lakhs in number yet the Hon‟ble Supreme Court held that there

cannot be any relaxation in the mandatory qualifications. Though the said

case does not directly apply to the present matter, but on the fundamentals

of quality education, we find no reason that any person appointed in a

thoroughly polluted process be at all allowed to continue. When the entire

process is flawed, it has to be annulled. WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

 For what has been discussed herein above and in an overall

comprehension of the matter, when we have not an iota of doubt that the

selection process was hijacked by unscrupulous elements and was

polluted to the hilt, we find no reason to save even a part of it, so far the

said five Centres namely, Shillong Sadar, Jowai, Amlarem, Tura and

Dadengre are concerned. Had it been a matter of certain illegality or

irregularity of lesser magnitude, we might have considered retention of

unblemished candidates in the service but any such exercise would be

only giving some credence to the process which we have found to be

rather fraudulent. This selection process in the said five Centres, if allowed

to remain even in part, would wreck and ruin the very basics of rule of law.

It is required to be annulled altogether but while safeguarding the interest

of genuine and bona fide candidates as also while safeguarding the

interest of education until concrete corrective measures are taken by the

Government. The only reliefs to the unblemished persons, which we deem

appropriate, are (i) to allow them to continue as stop-gap arrangement, if

they are in service; and (ii) to allow all of them, whether in service or not,

to participate in the fresh selection process without the requirement of

applying afresh and with age relaxation, if otherwise eligible.

THE COURSE TO BE ADOPTED

 Having said as above and having clearly come to the conclusion that

the entire selection process stinks of highhandedness and contamination

and is required to be annulled while safeguarding the interests of genuine

candidates, we have pondered over the course to be adopted in these

matters. It remains a fact that the initial challenge in the nine writ petitions

had only been of the selection process in relation to four Centres namely,

Shillong Sadar, Jowai, Amlarem and Tura. On the papers as supplied or as 95 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

seized, the fifth Centre Dadengre came to be examined by the CBI and

illegalities and criminalities were found galore in all these five Centres.

Moreover, as noticed above, it had been a selection process where the

public representatives boldly chose to interfere in the selection of

candidate/candidates by addressing communications, as if making

recommendation in a public selection process was a matter of right. It is,

therefore, absolutely unsafe to assume that there were no cases of

manipulation in other Centres. It would be too simple, rather inappropriate,

to assume that the mode and methodology of total defiance of law

remained confined only to these five Centres. Hence, an appropriate

inquiry in relation to the other Centres is also requisite, irrespective of the

fact that the appointments are continuing for last about 7 years. Any

passage of time cannot provide legitimacy to a public employment, if

obtained by dubious methods and in defiance of fair play. As noticed, the inquiry for the five Centres was carried out by CBI.

The Division Bench, however, referred the matter to the Committee in the

Government but with directions to take guidance from CBI report too; and

ultimately, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court directed this Court to re-examine

the matter with reference to the reports of CBI and HLSC both. The result

of such examination has been indicated hereinabove. Having regard to the

circumstances noticed in detail hereinabove, we are of the considered view

that it would be in the interest of justice if the same course, that has got

applied to the aforesaid five Centres, is applied in relation to the remaining

Centres too. For applying such a course for the remaining Centres, the first

requirement would be of an inquiry by the CBI. Though in the given set of

facts and circumstances, we need not elaborate on the justification for

assigning the inquiry for other Centres to CBI as the previous report by the 96 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

CBI in relation to the same process has been taken into consideration as

per the order of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court; and such report by CBI has,

in fact, assisted this Court in arriving at the decision regarding the said five

Centres. Yet, for the reason that the investigation of the pending FIR is

also proposed to be transferred to CBI, we deem it just and proper to refer

to the principles expounded by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in regard to

assigning of inquiry and/or investigation to CBI. In the case of State of West Bengal and Ors v. Committee for

Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal and Ors: (2010) 3 SCC

571, the issue referred to the Constitution Bench was as to whether the

High Court, in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India, could direct the CBI established under the Delhi

Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 to investigate a cognizable

offence, which was alleged to have taken place within the territorial

jurisdiction of the State, without the consent of the concerned State

Government? The incident involved in the matter related to offences

pertaining to Sections 364 / 302 / 201 IPC, Sections 25 / 27 of the Arms Act,

1959, and Section 9-B of the Explosives Act, 1884. There had been

questions raised on the fairness of the inquiry of State Police and, having

regard to the circumstances, the High Court of Calcutta, while dealing with

the incident in question in a writ petition under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India, considered it appropriate to handover the

investigation to CBI. On the principal question referred for determination,

the Hon‟ble Constitutional Bench ultimately came to the conclusion that

such directions for investigation by CBI on a cognizable offence in the

State without the consent of the State Government neither impinged upon

the federal structure nor violated the distribution of power. The Constitution

Bench also defined and delineated on the width, amplitude as also 97 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

limitation of the writ jurisdiction while issuing a direction for CBI

investigation in the following:- The Hon‟ble Constitution Bench further referred to the decision in Minor Irrigation & Rural Engg. Services, U.P. v. Sahngoo Ram Arya : In the case of Sahngoo Ram Arya (supra), the Hon‟ble Supreme

Court cautioned against an order for investigation by CBI in a routine

manner while emphasizing that direction for an inquiry by CBI could only

be issued if the Court, after considering the material on record, comes to a

conclusion that such material indeed disclosed a prima facie case calling

for investigation by CBI or similar agency. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court

said,- In the case of Nirmal Singh Kahlon v. State of Punjab and Ors : The present one being also a matter of involvement of the high

ranking public representatives and of enormous magnitude of its kind; and

where a part of the selection process in relation to five Centres has already

been found vitiated with excessive manipulations, we are clearly of the 99 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

view that in the first place the inquiry in relation to the remaining Centres

ought to be carried out by CBI. We may observe that in the case of Meghalaya Public Service

Commission v. Shri Millon Ch. Momin, WA No. 67 of 2016 decided on

26.10.2016, this Court has indicated that direction for CBI inquiry cannot

be made only on the basis of doubts and without the Court coming to the

conclusion that the material on record discloses prima facie case for such

an inquiry. However, it was observed that,- In the present case, the learned Single Judge had, in the earlier

round, reached to prima facie findings and spelt out cogent reasons for

handing over the matter for inquiry by CBI. After having thoroughly

examined the matter now in this round and having reached to the finding

that there had been large scale manipulations in the selection process, we

have no doubt that the matter requires further inquiry by CBI. Having regard to the circumstances, we are also of the view that

after the CBI has carried out the inquiry in relation to the remaining

Centres, the report ought to be submitted to the State Government, who

shall act on the same after carrying out such further inquiry as may be

considered requisite. For the purpose of such further inquiry by the State Government we

are now not inclined to entrust the matter to the HLSC that had earlier

carried out the inquiry with soft-paddling and left the crux of the matter

unattended. However, and even when not entrusting the matter to the 100 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

HLSC, we see no reason not to rely on the impartiality and objectivity of

the Chief Secretary to the Government of Meghalaya. Therefore, we are

inclined to order constitution of a fresh Scrutiny Committee under the

chairmanship of the Chief Secretary to the Government of Meghalaya

while entrusting the learned Chief Secretary with the task of appointing two

more members of impeccable integrity in the Committee: one being an

officer of State Civil Services and another being an independent member

from any Central or State Educational Institution or University. The

Committee so constituted by the Chief Secretary shall examine the report

of the CBI and shall carry out further inquiry as considered necessary and

submit its report to the State Government, who shall be acting on the same

in accordance with law. In this regard, we consider it appropriate to provide

that if in regard to any Centre, no interference of any third party to the

recruitment process is found and if the irregularities are not of massive

scale, only the tainted candidates, if any, may be dealt with while not

disturbing the other candidates. However, if selection process in any

Centre is found unfair with interference of public representatives or any

other third person and/or the illegalities are of massive level, it would be

expected of the Government to take appropriate decision for annulment of

such a selection process

 One aspect of the matter yet remains to be dealt with; and that

relates to the candidates who have been found tainted/blemished in the

reports of CBI and HLSC. Although, prima facie, the reports regarding

manipulations and tampering of marks appear to be in accord with the

facts manifest on record, yet we do not discard altogether the submission

on behalf of such candidates that their branding as tainted is that of

stigma. Having regard to the circumstances, we are inclined to give them

yet another chance to represent, but with rigorous conditions. Such 101 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

rigorous conditions are required to be put for the reason that in the name

of representation and an opportunity of hearing, none of such candidates is

entitled to waste the public time and to seek a hearing only for the sake of

it. Hence, in the interest of justice, the persons who have been found

tainted are given liberty to make a representation to the said Scrutiny

Committee to be constituted by the Chief Secretary but with a note of

caution that if any such representation is rejected by the Committee, the

candidate concerned shall be subjected to payment of penalty in the sum

of Rs.50,000/-; and shall thereafter stand permanently debarred from

seeking any Government employment. Investigation to be transferred to CBI

 As held hereinabove, in this matter involving mass manipulations

and interference, we have not an iota of doubt that the entire selection

process, at least for the five referred Centres, is polluted beyond repair and

is required to be annulled. At the same time, it cannot be assumed that the

process in relation to the other Centres had gone unaffected and hence,

we are entrusting the inquiry in relation to such other Centres to CBI. Apart from the above, we are clearly of the view that this is a matter

that requires thorough and deep investigation by an independent agency.

As noticed, in this matter, an FIR has already been lodged wherein other

complaints have also been clubbed; and investigation remains pending.

Hereinbefore, we have referred to the principles expounded by the Hon‟ble

Supreme Court for assigning investigation/ inquiry in a given case to CBI in

substitution of the State Investigating Agency. Applying the said principles

to the fact situation of the present case, we are clearly of the view that the

State Police would not be the proper agency to be entrusted with the

investigation; and for the requisite investigation and for bringing to book all 102 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

the persons responsible in this scam, it is rather imperative that

investigation in the FIR relating to this matter [presently Laitumukhrah

P.S.Case No.62(7) of 2011] be carried out by the CBI.

CONCLUSION AND DIRECTIONS: (b) The prayer of other untainted/unblemished candidates of the said

five Centres for induction in service stands rejected. (c) However, all the untainted/unblemished candidates of the said

five Centres, whether in service or not, shall be allowed to participate in the

fresh selection process, if otherwise eligible in accordance with the

presently applicable Rules/Guidelines, without necessity of their applying

afresh. In this regard it is also provided that none of such

untainted/unblemished candidates shall be treated as age-barred if he/she

was within the age prescribed by the notification dated 24.11.2008. (d) None of the candidates who has been found tainted/blemished,

whether in the report of CBI or in the report of HLSC or both as also none

of the candidates who had been recommended by the public

representative shall be taken or retained in service even in stop-gap

arrangement and the service of every such candidate, who is yet 103 WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters

continuing, whether by way of regular appointment or in ad hoc

arrangement, shall stand terminated with immediate effect. 2. For the candidates who have been found tainted/blemished in the

CBI report and/or HLSC report for Shillong Sadar, Jowai, Amlarem, Tura

and Dadenggre, it is provided that any such candidate, if so desires, may

make a representation, within 30 days from today, to the Chief Secretary to

the Government of Meghalaya for consideration as untainted candidate.

The Chief Secretary shall get such representation/s examined by a three-

member Committee, comprising of himself; and one member from the

State Civil Services having unblemished service record and of impeccable

integrity; and one independent member from any Central or State

Educational Institution or University. The said Committee shall take

decision on such representation/s within 60 days of making; and if the

Committee would accept the representation and treat the candidate as

untainted, he/she shall be entitled to the right of participation in the fresh

selection process at par with other untainted candidates. It is, however,

made clear that if the Committee would confirm the tainted character of

any such candidate, he/she shall stand permanently debarred from

seeking any Government employment and shall also be liable for penalty

quantified in the sum of Rs. 50,000/- (fifty thousand) that shall be

deposited in the State Disaster Management Fund. 3. So far the Centres other than Shillong Sadar, Jowai, Amlarem, Tura

and Dadengre are concerned, it is directed that: and the State Government shall act accordingly. In such an eventuality, the

directions in the foregoing paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply. iii) If no illegalities and manipulations are found in any Centre or if

the extent of irregularities in any particular Centre are not of higher

magnitude and no case of interference by any public representative or any

other person is found, the selection process of such Centre may be

approved by the Committee subject to appropriate orders relating to the

tainted or blameworthy candidate, if any; and the State Government shall

act accordingly. 4 (a) Laitumukhrah P.S.Case No.62(7) of 2011 stands withdrawn from the

State Police and stands transferred to the CBI for appropriate investigation

and submission of its result within six months from today. (b) The Case Diary of Laitumukhrah P.S.Case No.62(7) of 2011 as

submitted by the State Government, shall be handed over to the learned

counsel for CBI for onward transmission to the Superintendent of Police,

CBI, Shillong. WA No. 52 of 2011 along with the connected matters (c). The other records of CBI pertaining to the inquiry proceedings in

PE2(A)/2011-SHG shall also be handed over to the learned counsel for

CBI for onward transmission to the Superintendent of Police, CBI, Shillong. 5. The disciplinary proceedings against the then Director, Elementary

and Mass Education shall continue and the case file of disciplinary

proceedings be returned to the learned Advocate General for appropriate

transmission. The other certified copies and the documents in relation to

the proceedings of the HLSC as also appointment orders be handed over

to the learned Advocate General. 6. All the appeals and writ petition in this group stand disposed of

accordingly with no order as to costs. Before parting, we put on record profound appreciation that,

irrespective of the overtones of this matter, the learned counsel for the

respective parties only argued on the relevant issues in a neat and orderly

manner; and rendered invaluable assistance to the Court in sifting through

the volumes of records.