Petitioners seek quashing of the FIR No.0272 of 2020,
under Sections 386 and 389 IPC, Police Station- Nehru Colony,
District- Dehradun. 2. Heard learned counsel for the parties through video
conferencing. 3. According to the FIR, the petitioner no. 1 is a woman of
bad character; she has relations with many persons, from whom she
has extorted money. She called the informant's son and talked to her
and threatened her that either the informant should meet her demand
or else she would implicate the husband of the informant in some false
case of rape and spoil him. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioners would argue that, in
fact, the petitioner no. 1 had relations with the husband of the
informant, who is private respondent no. 4; she conceived and
delivered a baby girl from the husband of the informant; the DNA
report confirmed that the petitioner no. 1 did not conceive the child
from her husband. Petitioner no. 1 demanded the rights of her child
from the husband of the informant. Therefore, false FIR has been
lodged against the petitioners. 5. On behalf of the petitioners, it is also argued that, in fact,
the petitioners also gave an application to the Senior Superintendent
of Police, with regard to the exploitation that was done by the husband
of the informant and all other acts, but, Police did not take any action
on it. Thereafter, an application under Section 156(3) of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 has been filed, which is pending. Learned
counsel for the petitioners would also submit that even the Whats App
messages do not reveal that the petitioners or any of them ever tried to
extort the money. It is argued that it reveals that the petitioner no.1
was offered 5 lacs Rupees by the informant, and whatever was spoken
by the petitioner no.1 was for the rights of her child, which according
to learned counsel, is conceived from the husband of the informant. 6. On the last occasion some Whats-App massage were
referred to, which have been filed today. They have been perused by
the Court. 7. On behalf of the informant, learned counsel would argue
that the Whats-App messages would reveal that it is the petitioner no.
1 who was extorting the money from the informant; the Whats-App
messages would reveal that, in fact, she is acting at the behest of a
former MLA of the area, a Mr. Bisht. Learned counsel for the
informant would also submit that the Police has confirmed that the
DNA test of the child of the petitioner no.1 did not take place at
Shamli Hospital, Muzaffar Nagar, as claimed by her, because there is
no facility for it. 8. On behalf of the State it is argued that apart from the
Whats App messages, there are immensely other evidences as well;
there are call detail records and the Police has confirmed that the
DNA test of the child of petitioner no.1 has not been done at Shamli
Hospital. 9. Having considered, this Court is of the view that this
matter definitely requires much deliberations. 10. Let counter affidavit be filed within four weeks. 11. List in the week commencing 12th October, 2020. Till
then, no coercive steps shall be taken against the petitioners, provided
they cooperate with the investigation. (Ravindra Maithani, J.)
 04.09.2020
Kaushal