% 23.07.2024 1. The present application is filed under Section 438 read
 with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
 (' CrPC ') seeking pre-arrest bail in FIR No. 123/2024 dated
 11.02.2024, registered at Police Station Neb Sarai, for offences
 under Sections 328 / 376 / 506 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860
 (' IPC '). This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/07/2024 at 22:52:51 2. The brief facts of the case are that the applicant and the
 prosecutrix were acquainted with each other as their children
 used to study in the same school. It is alleged that the applicant
 had visited the house of the prosecutrix in the presence of her
 husband as well. It is alleged that the prosecutrix met the
 applicant at the Park Avenue Hotel, Saket on two occasions in
 January, 2024 as the applicant wanted to hire her services for
 tarot card reading to help his business. 3. It is alleged that on 24.01.2024, the applicant asked the
 prosecutrix to visit a place in Anupam Garden, Sainik Farm on
 the pretext that his friend wanted to buy a property and wanted
 tips on the negative energy/ vastu, etc. It is alleged that when the
 prosecutrix reached there, the applicant gave her a cold drink
 whereafter she lost consciousness on drinking the same. It is
 alleged that after gaining consciousness, the prosecutrix realised
 that she was naked and that she had been raped. The prosecutrix
 confided in her husband a few days after the incident. Thereafter,
 the prosecutrix and her husband confronted the applicant who
 denied all allegations and hurled abuses. Complaint was
 thereafter given to the Police on 11.02.2024 which led to the
 registration of the FIR. 4. On 14.02.2024, the prosecutrix supported the complaint in
 her statement under Section 164 of the CrPC. She alleged that the
 applicant had made a video of the incident and handed the same
 to her on 09.02.2024. She alleged that the applicant was
 threatening to make the incident viral on social media. 5. A notice under Section 91 of the CrPC was served to the
 prosecutrix produce her mobile phone and SD card. A reply was
 filed by the prosecutrix and the SD card was handed over by her.
 In her reply, the prosecutrix alleged that the SD card had been BAIL APPLN. 1057/2024 Page 2 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/07/2024 at 22:52:51
 given to the prosecutrix by the applicant on 09.02.2024. The
 video of the incident shows the applicant having sexual
 intercourse with a female whose face is not visible. The
 prosecutrix did not hand over her mobile phone as the same had
 been lost. 6. During investigation, the applicant's wife produced the
 mobile phone of the applicant along with a pen drive with the
 videos of the prosecutrix and her husband visiting the office of
 the applicant. Subsequently, another mobile phone was seized
 from the applicant. 7. During interrogation, on 06.04.2024, the applicant stated
 that he found out about the video only on 10.02.2024 when the
 prosecutrix and her husband visited his office and demanded
 money. He further stated that the prosecutrix had booked the
 room in the Guest House using his phone, whereafter, they
 consensually engaged in sexual relations with each other at the
 Guest House on the date of the incident. 8. The learned counsel for the applicant submits that the
 applicant has clean antecedents and he has been falsely
 implicated in the present case. 9. He submits that the prosecutrix has lodged the present FIR
 solely for the purpose of extorting money from the applicant. He
 submits that no specifications with respect to the incident have
 been stated in the complaint. 10. He submits that custodial interrogation of the applicant is
 not required in the present case as the recording of the alleged
 incident and the mobile phones of the applicant are already
 available with the police. 11. He submits that the owner of the B&B/Guest House has
 categorically stated that the call received to make the booking BAIL APPLN. 1057/2024 Page 3 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/07/2024 at 22:52:52
 was made by a lady. He submits that the prosecutrix herself had
 made the call for booking from the mobile of the applicant. 12. He submits that the video of the incident was recorded by
 the prosecutrix with the sole intention of blackmailing the
 applicant and the same belies her claims of being intoxicated. 13. He submits that the video of the incident does not indicate
 that the women, in any manner, was under the influence of any
 substance. 14. The learned counsel for the prosecutrix submits that a
 prima facie case is made out against the applicant as it is an
 admitted position that sexual intercourse had occurred between
 the applicant and the prosecutrix. 15. He submits that the applicant had spiked the cold drink of
 the prosecutrix with some stupefying substance and therefore the
 presumption under Section 114A of the Indian Evidence Act,
 1872 will operate against the applicant. 16. He submits that the video was recorded by the applicant
 which shows his oblique motives. 17. He submits that the applicant tried to evade arrest for 55
 days and did not join the investigation due to which non-bailable
 warrants were also issued against him. He submits that the
 conduct of the applicant is thus suspicious. 18. He submits that the call recording of the booking made at
 the B&B/Guest House was produced belatedly by the applicant
 and the same is dubious. 19. He submits that the applicant is trying to thwart the
 investigation as the prosecutrix and her husband have been
 subjected to numerous threats by certain unknown individuals
 who said that they were acting at the behest of the applicant. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/07/2024 at 22:52:52 20. The learned Additional Standing Counsel ('ASC') for the
 State vehemently opposes the grant of any relief to the applicant
 and echoes the submissions of the learned counsel for the
 applicant. 21. She submits that the allegations levelled against the
 applicant are grave in nature. 22. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties and
 perused the record. 23. While determining the parameters in granting pre-arrest
 bail, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Siddharam Satlingappa
 Mhetre v. State of Maharashtra : (2011) 1 SCC 694 held as
 under: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/07/2024 at 22:52:52
 unjustified detention of the accused; (ix) The court to consider reasonable apprehension of
 tampering of the witness or apprehension of threat to the
 complainant; (x) Frivolity in prosecution should always be considered and it
 is only the element of genuineness that shall have to be
 considered in the matter of grant of bail and in the event of
 there being some doubt as to the genuineness of the prosecution,
 in the normal course of events, the accused is entitled to an
 order of bail." 24. False allegations of sexual misconduct and coercion not
 only tarnish the reputation of the accused but also undermine the
 credibility of genuine cases. Hence, it is imperative for the Court
 to exercise utmost diligence in evaluating the prima facie
 allegations against the accused in each case, especially when
 issues of consent and intent are contentious. 25. It is the case of the prosecution that the applicant had
 orchestrated a meeting with the prosecutrix at the Guest House
 on the pretext of taking her advice as to the vastu/ negative
 energy as his friend wanted to buy a property. It is alleged that
 the applicant administered some stupefying substance to the
 prosecutrix and then established sexual relations with her. It is
 also alleged that the incident was recorded in a video where the
 applicant can be seen having sexual intercourse, however, the
 face of the prosecutrix is not visible. 26. At the outset, it is relevant to note that the alleged incident
 took place on 24.01.2024 and the FIR was lodged belatedly on
 11.02.2024. The Hon'ble Apex Court, in the case of Meharaj
 Singh (L/Nk.) v. State of U.P. : (1994) 5 SCC 188, held as
 under: "12. ...Delay in lodging the FIR often results in embellishment, which
 is a creature of an afterthought. On account of delay, the FIR not only BAIL APPLN. 1057/2024 Page 6 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/07/2024 at 22:52:52
 gets bereft of the advantage of spontaneity, danger also creeps in of
 the introduction of a coloured version or exaggerated story..." 27. While it is stated in the FIR that the prosecutrix confided
 in her husband after a few days as she was ashamed and did not
 have the courage, the credibility of any explanation for the delay
 will be seen during the course of the trial. 28. The applicant during interrogation has allegedly admitted
 that the parties had sexual intercourse at the Guest House. The
 only contentious issue is whether the prosecutrix consented to the
 same or whether the applicant induced her by administering any
 intoxicating substances. 29. No medical examination has been done to discern whether
 any stupefying substance was ingested by the prosecutrix. The
 video, at this stage, does not show that the woman was under the
 influence of any substance. Admittedly, the parties had gone to
 the room in the Guest House on their own. The booking for the
 room had also been made by a lady. 30. Although it is not in doubt that that the mere statement of
 the prosecutrix is sufficient for establishing the offence of rape if
 the same inspires confidence, on a prima facie basis, in the
 absence of any evidence to support the allegation of the applicant
 administering any intoxicating substance to the prosecutrix apart
 from her statement, the possibility of the intercourse between the
 parties being consensual cannot be ruled out. 31. It is also relevant to note that no allegation of the applicant
 recording a video was made in the present FIR. While the
 prosecutrix in her statement under Section 164 of the CrPC had
 stated that the applicant had threatened to make the video viral,
 however, admittedly, the face of the prosecutrix is not visible in
 the video. It does not appear plausible that the applicant can BAIL APPLN. 1057/2024 Page 7 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/07/2024 at 22:52:52
 threaten the prosecutrix to make a video viral that only shows
 him having sexual intercourse but does not reveal the identity of
 the woman. 32. The Status Report filed on 22.07.2024 indicates that the
 investigation has been completed qua the allegations of rape by
 the applicant. It is also stated that the chargesheet will be filed
 soon. Further, the SD card as well as the pen drive obtained
 during investigation have already been sent to FSL, Rohini. It is
 stated that the supplementary chargesheet will be filed after
 receiving the FSL Report regarding the genuineness of the
 exhibits. 33. As per the Status Report filed on 19.07.2024, the notices
 under Section 91 of the CrPC were served on the prosecutrix and
 her husband to produce their respective phones for forensic
 examination. It is stated that the prosecutrix replied stating that
 she had lost her mobile phone on 15.02.2024. The husband of the
 prosecutrix also refused to deposit his phone as the same
 allegedly had privileged information. 34. It is not in doubt that an order for grant of pre-arrest bail
 cannot be passed in a routine manner so as to allow the accused
 to use the same as a shield. At the same time, it cannot be denied
 that great amount of humiliation and disgrace is attached with the
 arrest. In cases where the accused has joined investigation, he is
 cooperating with the Investigating Agency and is not likely to
 abscond, the custodial interrogation should be avoided. 35. It is relevant to note that this Court, by order dated
 01.04.2024, had granted interim protection to the applicant. The
 applicant has since joined investigation. Non-bailable warrants
 issued against the applicant have also been cancelled by the
 learned Trial Court vide order dated 14.05.2024. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/07/2024 at 22:52:52 36. It is stated that the applicant has given unsatisfactory and
 evasive replies regarding the source of the video clipping and the
 intoxicating substance given to the prosecutrix and his custodial
 interrogation is required to investigate the said aspects. As per
 the Status Report dated 22.07.2024, the applicant has denied the
 allegations of making a video or giving an intoxicating substance
 to the prosecutrix. 37. It is trite law that merely because an accused person does
 not confess to the allegations levelled against him and make self-
 incriminating statements, it cannot be said that he isn't
 cooperating with the investigation [Ref. Bijender v State of
 Haryana : Special Leave to Appeal (Crl.)No. 1079/2024),
 decided on 06.03.2024]. 38. It has been the case of the applicant from the start that the
 prosecutrix consensually engaged in sexual relations with him
 and that he found out about the video of the incident only when
 the prosecutrix and her husband visited his office on 10.02.2024.
 The mobile phones of the applicant are already in custody of the
 police. Thus, the denial of the applicant cannot be treated as an
 instance of him not cooperating with the investigation. 39. Insofar as the threats received by the prosecutrix and her
 husband to settle the matter are concerned, the Status Report
 filed on 19.07.2024 indicates that the Investigating Officer
 conducted investigation and found that the calls were made by
 individuals who are both advocates by profession. The said
 advocates stated that they had merely contacted the husband of
 the prosecutrix to provide legal help. The said aspect is under
 investigation. 40. It is not denied that two mobile phones of the applicant are
 already in custody of the police. At this stage, in the opinion of BAIL APPLN. 1057/2024 Page 9 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/07/2024 at 22:52:52
 this Court, bail cannot be denied to the applicant on the mere
 apprehension that he had attempted to pressurise the prosecutrix
 to settle the matter in the absence of any cogent link between the
 applicant and the individuals who had approached the prosecutrix
 and her husband. 41. It is not in dispute that the antecedents of the applicant are
 clean. The applicant has a wife and minor children to take care
 of. 42. Offence as alleged is heinous in nature, however, it cannot
 be lost sight of the fact that the object of jail is not punitive but to
 secure the presence of the accused during the trial. 43. In such circumstances, this Court is of the opinion that
 subjecting the applicant to custodial interrogation will not serve
 any useful purpose. 44. However, appropriate conditions ought to be imposed to
 allay any apprehensions of the applicant tampering with the
 evidence or evading the trial. 45. In view of the above, it is directed that the applicant, in the
 event of arrest, be admitted on bail on furnishing a bail bond for
 a sum of ₹50,000/- with one surety of the like amount subject to
 the satisfaction of the concerned SHO, on the following
 conditions: 46. In the event of there being any FIR/DD entry / complaint
 lodged against the applicant, it would be open to the State to seek
 redressal by filing an application seeking cancellation of bail. 47. It is clarified that any observations made in the present
 order are for the purpose of deciding the present bail application
 and should not influence the outcome of the Trial and also not be
 taken as an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. 48. The application is allowed in the aforementioned terms. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 JULY 23, 2024 BAIL APPLN. 1057/2024 Page 11 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/07/2024 at 22:52:52