Dr. ARIJIT PASAYAT, J. 1. Taking a serious note of various instances where there was large scale

destruction of public and private properties in the name of agitations, bandhs,

hartals and the like, suo motu proceedings were initiated by a Bench of this

Court on 5.6.2007. Dr. Rajiv Dhawan, Senior counsel of this Court agreed to act

as Amicus Curiae. After perusing various reports filed, two Committees were

appointed; one headed by a retired Judge of this Court Justice K.T. Thomas. The

other members of this Committee were Mr. K. Parasaran, Senior Member of the

legal profession, Dr. R.K. Raghvan, Ex-Director of CBI, and Mr. G.E. Vahanavati,

the Solicitor General of India and an officer not below the rank of Additional

Secretary of Ministry of Home Affairs and the Secretary of Department of Law
and Justice, Government of India. The Other Committee was headed by Mr. F.S.

Nariman, a Senior Member of the Legal Profession. The other members of the

Committee were the Editor-in-Chief of the Indian Express, the Times of India

and Dainik Jagaran, Mr. Pranay Roy of NDTV and an officer not below the rank

of Additional Secretary of Ministry of Home Affairs, Information and Broadcasting

and Secretary, Department of Law and Justice, Government of India, Mr. G.E.

Vahanavati, Solicitor General and learned Amicus Curiae. 2. Two reports have been submitted by the Committees. The matter was

heard at length. The recommendations of the Committees headed by Justice

K.T. Thomas and Mr. F.S. Nariman have been considered. 3. Certain suggested guidelines have also been submitted by learned

Amicus Curiae. 4. The report submitted by Justice K.T. Thomas Committee has made the

following recommendations: established the two facets) that the accused is guilty of

 the offence. (ii) The PDPP Act to contain provision to make the leaders

 of the organization, which calls the direct action, guilty

 of abetment of the offence. (iii) The PDPP Act to contain a provision for rebuttable

 presumption. (iv) Enable the police officers to arrange videography of the

 activities damaging public property. The recommendations have been made on the basis of the following conclusions

after taking into consideration the materials. In respect of (i)

 "According to this Committee the prosecution should be required to
prove, first that public property has been damaged in a direct action called by an
organization and that the accused also participated in such direct action. From
that stage the burden can be shifted to the accused to prove his innocence.
Hence we are of the view that in situations where prosecution succeeds in
proving that public property has been damaged in direct actions in which
accused also participated, the court should be given the power to draw a
presumption that the accused is guilty of destroying public property and that it
is open to the accused to rebut such presumption. The PDPP Act may be
amended to contain provisions to that effect. In respect of (ii)

Next we considered how far the leaders of the organizations can also be caught
and brought to trial, when public property is damaged in the direct actions called
at the behest of such organizations. Destruction of public property has become
so rampant during such direct actions called by organizations. In almost all such
cases the top leaders of such organisations who really instigate such direct
actions will keep themselves in the background and only the ordinary or
common members or grass root level followers of the organisation would
directly participate in such direct actions and they alone would be vulnerable to
prosecution proceedings. In many such cases, the leaders would really be the
main offenders being the abettors of the crime. If they are not caught in the
dragnet and allowed to be immune from prosecution proceedings, such direct
actions would continue unabated, if not further escalated, and will remain a
constant or recurring affair. Of course, it is normally difficult to prove abetment of the offence with the help
of direct evidence. This flaw can be remedied to a great extent by making an
additional provision in PDPP Act to the effect that specified categories of leaders
of the organization which make the call for direct actions resulting in damage to
public property, shall be deemed to be guilty of abetment of the offence. At the
same time, no innocent person, in spite of his being a leader of the organization
shall be made to suffer for the actions done by others. This requires the
inclusion of a safeguard to protect such innocent leaders." In respect of (iii)

"After considering various aspects to this question we decided to recommend
that prosecutions should be required to prove (i) that those accused were the
leaders or office bearers of the organisation which called out the direct actions
and (ii) that public property has been damaged in or during or in the aftermath
of such direct actions. At that stage of trial it should be open to the court to
draw a presumption against such persons who are arraigned in the case that
they have abetted the commission of offence. However, the accused in such case
shall not be liable to conviction if he proves that (i) he was in no way connected
with the action called by his political party or that (ii) he has taken all reasonable
measures to prevent causing damage to public property in the direct action
called by his organisation." In respect of (iv)

 "The Committee considered other means of adducing evidence
for averting unmerited acquittals in trials involving offences under PDPP Act . We
felt that one of the areas to be tapped is evidence through videography in
addition to contemporaneous material that may be available through the media,
such as electronic media. With the amendments brought in the Evidence Act ,
through Act 21 of 2000 permitting evidence collected through electronic devices
as admissible in evidence, we wish to recommend the following: The original tapes or CD or other material capable of displaying the recorded
evidence shall be produced before the said Magistrate. It is open to the
Magistrate to entrust such CD/material to the custody of the police officer or any
other person to be produced in court at the appropriate stage or as and when
called for. The Committee felt that offenders arrested for damaging public property shall
be subjected to a still more stringent provision for securing bail. The discretion
of the court in granting bail to such persons should be restricted to cases where
the court feels that there are reasonable grounds to presume that he is not
guilty of the offence. This is in tune with Section 437 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 and certain other modern Criminal Law statutes. So we
recommend that Section 5 may be amended for carrying out the above
restriction. Thus we are of the view that discretion to reduce the minimum sentence on
condition of recording special reasons need not be diluted. But, instead of
"reasons" the court should record "special reasons" to reduce the minimum
sentence prescribed. However, we felt that apart from the penalty of imprisonment the court should
be empowered to impose a fine which is equivalent to the market value of the
property damaged on the day of the incident. In default of payment of fine, the
offender shall undergo imprisonment for a further period which shall be
sufficient enough to deter him from opting in favour of the alternative
imprisonment." The recommendations according to us are wholesome and need to be

accepted. To effectuate the modalities for preventive action and adding teeth to

enquiry/investigation following guidelines are to be observed: So far as the Committee headed by Mr. F.S. Nariman is concerned the

recommendations and the views are essentially as follows: Where persons, whether jointly or otherwise, are part of a protest which turns
violent, results in damage to private or public property, the persons who have
caused the damage, or were part of the protest or who have organized will be
deemed to be strictly liable for the damage so caused, which may be assessed by
the ordinary courts or by any special procedure created to enforce the right. This Committee is of the view that it is in the spirit of the observation
in M.C. Mehta v. Union of India (1987 (1) SCC 395) that this Court needs to lay
down principles on which liability could be fastened and damages assessed in
cases in which due to behaviour of mobs and riotous groups public and private
property is vandalized and loss of life and injury is occasioned to innocent
persons. These are clearly "unusual situations", which have arisen and likely to
arise in future and need to be provided for in the larger interest of justice. It is on the principles set out above that (it is suggested) that the Hon'ble Court
should frame guidelines and venture to evolve new principles (of liability) to
meet situations that have already arisen in the past and are likely to arise again
in future, so that speedy remedies become available to persons affected by loss
of life, injury and loss of properties, public or private, as a result of riots and civil
commotions. Damages in the law of torts in India include (a) damages based on the concept of restituto in interregnum to enable total
recompense; and (b) exemplary damages" (2) Where any injury to property is to be compensated by damages, in settling
the sum of money to be given for reparation by way of damages the Court
should as nearly as possible get at that sum of money which will put the party
who has suffered, in the same position as he would have been in if he had not
sustained the wrong for which he is now getting his compensation or reparation. (3) In this branch of the law, the principle of restitution in interregnum has
been described as the "dominant" rule of law. Subsidiary rules can only be
justified if they give effect to that rule. In actions in tort where damages are at large i.e. not limited to the pecuniary
loss that can be specifically proved, the Court may also take into account the
defendant's motives, conduct and manner of committing the tort, and where
these have aggravated the plaintiff's damage e.g. by injuring his proper feelings
of dignity, safety and pride - aggravated damages may be awarded. Aggravated damages are designed to compensate the plaintiff for his wounded
feelings-they must be distinguished from exemplary damages which are punitive
in nature and which (under English Law) may be awarded in a limited category of
cases. In this committee's view, the principle that Courts in India are not limited in the
law of torts merely to what English Courts say or do, is attracted to the present
situation. This Committee is of the view that this Hon'ble Court should evolve a
principle of liability - punitive in nature - on account of vandalism and rioting
leading to damages/destruction of property public and private. Damages must
also be such as would deter people from similar behaviour in the future: after all
this is already the policy of the law as stated in the Prevention of Damage to
Property Act, 1984 , and is foreshadowed in the order of this Hon'ble Court dated
18-06-2007 making the present reference. In a Winfield and Jolowicz (on Tort) Seventeenth Edition (at pages 948-949) the
authors set out the future of exemplary damages by quoting from the decision in
Kuddeus v. CC Leicestershie (supra) where two Law Lords Lord Nicholls and Lord
Hutton expressed the view that such damages might have a valuable role to play
in dealing with outrageous behaviour. The authors point out that the boundaries
between the civil and criminal law are not rigid or immutable and the criminal
process alone is not an adequate mechanism to deter willful wrong-doing. The
acceptability of the principle of compensation with punishment appears to have
been confirmed by the Privy Council (in The Cleaner Co Ltd. Vs. Abrahams
[2004) a AC 628 at 54) where it was felicitously said that "oil and vinegar may
not mix in solution but they combine to make an acceptable salad dressing." The
authors go on to say that exemplary damages certainly enjoy a continuing
vitality in other common law jurisdictions, which, by and large, have rejected the
various shackles imposed on them in England and extended them to other
situations: thus punitive damages was held to be available in Australia "in cases
of "outrageous" acts of negligence. The Law Commission of Australia has also concluded - after a fairly evenly
balanced consultation-that exemplary damages should be retained where the
defendant "had deliberately and outrageously disregarded the plaintiffs rights." In the absence of legislation the following guidelines are to be adopted

to assess damages: The recommendations of Justice K.T. Thomas Committee and Mr. F.S. Nariman

Committees above which have the approval of this Court shall immediately

became operative. They shall be operative as guidelines. The power of this Court also extends to laying down guidelines. In Union of
India v. Association for Democratic Reforms (2002) 5 SCC 294, this Court
observed: 7 Dinesh Trivedi, M.P. v. Union of India , ( 1997) 4 SCC 306
Common Cause v. Union of India , AIR 1996 SC 929
 7 Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association v. Union of
 India ; (1993) 4 SCC 441

 7 Positive Mandamus Cases (i) Mandamus to enforce the law

The situation in which a positive mandamus to do a particular act in a particular
way, may be broadly classified in the following manner. First are the broad
mandamus cases where this court has held that the court may issue a positive
mandamus to enforce the law. Thus in Vineet Narain 's case (supra) detailed
orders were passed for the investigation of the Hawala transaction cases. It is
laid down that positive directions can be issued where there is a power coupled
with a duty. The situations under which this can happen are numerous. In Commissioner of Police v. Gordhandas Bhanji AIR 1952 SC 16 at pr.27, quoting
from Julius v. Lord Bishop of Oxford, (1880) 5 A.C. 214, where the court said: In Comptroller and Auditor General of India v. K S. Jagannathan (AIR 1987 SC 537) the court also explored the need to issue a positive mandamus where a
power was coupled with a duty. The principle enunciated in the above case was approved and followed in King v.
Revising Barrister for the Borough of Hanley. In Hochtief Gammon case this
Court pointed out (at p. 675 of Reports: SCC p. 656) that the powers of the
courts in relation to the orders of the government or an officer of the
government who has been conferred any power under any statute, which
apparently confer on them absolute discretionary powers, are not confined to
cases where such power is exercised or refused to be exercised on irrelevant
considerations or on erroneous ground or mala fide, and in such a case a party
would be entitled to move the High Court for a writ of mandamus. In Padfield v.
Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, the House of Lords held that where
Parliament had conferred a discretion on the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries
and Food, to appoint a committee of investigation so that it could be used to
promote the policy and objects of the Agricultural Marketing Act, 1958, which
were to be determined by the construction of the Act which was a matter of law
for the court and though there might be reasons which would justify the Minister
in refusing to refer a complaint to a committee of investigation, the Minister's
discretion was not unlimited and if it appeared that the effect of his refusal to
appoint a committee of investigation was to frustrate the policy of the Act, the
court was entitled to interfere by an order of mandamus. In Halsbury's Laws of
England, 4th Edn., vol. I, para 89, it is stated that the purpose of an order of
mandamus: 20. There is thus no doubt that the High Courts in India exercising their
jurisdiction under Article 226 have the power to issue a writ of mandamus or a
writ in the nature of mandamus or to pass orders and give necessary directions
where the government or a public authority has failed to exercise or has wrongly
exercised the discretion conferred upon it by a statute or a rule or a policy
decision of the government or has exercised such discretion mala fide or on
irrelevant considerations or by ignoring the relevant considerations and
materials or in such a manner as to frustrate the object of conferring such
discretion or the policy for implementing which such discretion has been
conferred. In all such cases and in any other fit and proper case a High Court
can, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 , issue a writ of
mandamus or a writ in the nature of mandamus or pass orders and give
directions to compel the performance in a proper and lawful manner of the
discretion conferred upon the government or a public authority, and in a proper
case, in order to prevent injustice resulting to the concerned parties, the court
may itself pass an order or give directions which the government or the public
authority should have passed or given had it properly and lawfully exercised its
discretion." This is especially important in giving directions in respect of mobilizing: 29. How do we check the abuse of police power? Transparency of action and
accountability perhaps are two possible safeguards which this Court must insist
upon. Attention is also required to be paid to properly develop work culture,
training and orientation of the police force consistent with basic human values.
Training methodology of the police needs restructuring. The force needs to be
infused with basic human values and made sensitive to the constitutional ethos.
Efforts must be made to change the attitude and approach of the police
personnel handling investigations so that they do not sacrifice basic human
values during interrogation and do not resort to questionable forms of
interrogation. With a view to bring in transparency, the presence of the counsel
of the arrestee at some point of time during the interrogation may deter the
police from using thirddegree methods during interrogation. 30. Apart from the police, there are several other governmental authorities also
like Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Directorate of Enforcement, Coastal
Guard, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Border Security Force (BSF), the
Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), the State Armed Police, Intelligence
Agencies like the Intelligence Bureau, RAW, Central Bureau of Investigation '(CBI),
CID, Traffic Police, Mounted Police and ITBP, which have the power to detain a
person and to interrogate him in. connection with the investigation of economic
offences, offences under the Essential Commodities Act, Excise and Customs
Act, Foreign Exchange Regulation Act etc. There are instances of torture and
death in custody of these authorities as well. In In Re: Death of Sawinder Singh
Grover, 1995 Supp. (4) SCC 450 (to which Kuldip Singh, J. was a party) this Court
took suo moto notice of the death of Sawinder Singh Grover during his custody
with the Directorate of Enforcement. After getting an enquiry conducted by the
Additional District Judge, which disclosed a prima facie case for investigation
and prosecution, this Court directed the CBI to lodge an FIR and initiate criminal
proceedings against all persons named in the report of the Additional District
judge and proceed against them. The Union of India/Directorate of Enforcement
was also directed to pay a sum of Rs 2 lakhs to the widow of the deceased by
way of ex gratia payment at the interim stage. Amendment of the relevant
provisions of law to protect the interest of arrested persons in such cases too is
a genuine need. 31. There is one other aspect also which needs our consideration. We are
conscious of the fact that the police in India have to perform a difficult and
delicate task, particularly in view of the deteriorating law and order situation,
communal riots, political turmoil, student unrest, terrorist activities, and among
others the increasing number of underworld and armed gangs and criminals.
Many hardcore criminals like extremists, terrorists, drug peddlers, smugglers
who have organised gangs, have taken strong roots in the society. It is being
said in certain quarters that with more and more liberalisation and enforcement
of fundamental rights, it would lead to difficulties in the detection of crimes
committed by such categories of hardened criminals by soft peddling
interrogation. It is felt in those quarters that if we lay too much of emphasis on
protection of their fundamental rights and human rights, such criminals may go
Scot free without exposing any element or iota of criminality with the result, the
crime would go unpunished and in the ultimate analysis the society would suffer.
The concern is genuine and the problem is real. To deal with such a situation, a
balanced approach is needed to meet the ends of justice. This is all the more so,
in view of the expectation of the society that police must deal with the criminals
in an efficient and effective manner and bring to book those who are involved in
the crime. The cure cannot, however, be worst than the disease itself. Thus the purpose of the guidelines in D.K. Basu was to effectuate a

constitutional right within the framework of a statute. At paras 33 & 34, it was

observed as follows: 24. On this basis, detention guidelines were issued. In a sense, the

guidelines in the Vineet Narain case (supra) also purported to be to enforce the

statute - without more, even though the constitutional right to a corrupt free

government under Article 21 was involved. 25. There are also several cases where guidelines may become necessary in

the absence of a statutory framework. 26. The justification for this was given in Vishaka's case (supra) and

approved in Vineet Narain 's case (supra) at pr. 52: xxx 14....The international conventions and norms are to be read into them in the
absence of enacted domestic law occupying the field when there is no
inconsistency between them. It is now an accepted rule of judicial construction
that regard must be had to international conventions and norms for construing
domestic law when there is no inconsistency between them and there is a void in
the domestic law. The meaning and content of the fundamental rights
guaranteed in the Constitution of India are of sufficient amplitude to encompass
all the facets of gender equality including prevention of sexual harassment or
abuse. Independence of judiciary forms a part of our constitutional scheme. The
international conventions and norms are to be read into them in the absence of
enacted domestic law occupying the field when there is no inconsistency
between them. It is now an accepted rule of judicial construction that regard
must be had to international conventions and norms for construing domestic law
when there is no inconsistency between them and there is a void in the domestic
law. The High Court of Australia in Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs v.
Tech 128 ALR 353, has recognised the concept of legitimate expectation of its
observance in the absence of a contrary legislative provision, even in the
absence of a Bill of Rights in the Constitution of Australia. 15. In Nilabati Behera v. State of Orissa , (1993) 2 SCC 746, a
 provision in the ICCPR was referred to support the view taken
 that 'an enforceable right to compensation is not alien to the
 concept of enforcement of a guaranteed right', as a public law
 remedy under Article 32 , distinct from the private law remedy
 in torts. There is no reason why these international
 conventions and norms cannot, therefore, be used for
 construing the fundamental rights expressly guaranteed in the
 Constitution of India which embody the basic concept of
 gender equality in all spheres of human activity. Vineet Narain Para 52

"As pointed out in Vishaka it is the duty of the executive to fill the vacuum by
executive orders because its field is coterminous with that of the legislature, and
where there is inaction even by the executive, for whatever reason, the judiciary
must step in, in exercise of its constitutional obligations under the aforesaid
provisions to provide a solution till such time as the legislature acts to perform
its role by enacting proper legislation to cover the field." 27. Thus, as we have noted, there are a number of cases in which
guidelines have been given

 7 Lakshmi Kant Pandey v. Union of India , (1984) 2 SCC 244
 [Guidelines for adoption of minor children by foreigners were laid
 down]
 7 Vishaka v. State of Rajasthan , (1997) 6 SCC 241 [Guidelines were
 laid down to set up a mechanism to address the issue of sexual
 harassment at the workplace]
 7 Vineet Narain v. Union of India , (1998) 1 SCC 226 [Directions
 were laid down to ensure the independence of the Vigilance
 Commission]
 7 State of W.B. v. Sampat Lal , (1985) 1 SCC 317
 7 K. Veeraswami (1991) 3 SCC 655
 7 Union Carbide Corporation v. Union of India, ( 1991) 4 SCC 584
 7 Delhi Judicial Service Assn. v. State of Gujarat , ( 1991) 4 SCC 406
 7 Delhi Development Authority v. Skipper Construction Co. (P) Ltd. ,
 (1996) 4 SCC 622; 7 Dinesh Trivedi, M.P. v. Union of India , ( 1997) 4 SCC 306
 7 Common Cause v. Union of India , AIR 1996 SC 929 [Directions
 were issued for revamping the system of blood banks in the
 country] 28. The present case is one in which guidelines are necessary: 29. This issue was examined by the Nariman Committee which considered: 30. These guidelines shall cease to be operative as and when appropriate

legislation consistent with the guidelines indicated above are put in place and/or

any fast track mechanism is created by Statute(s). 31. So far as the role of media is concerned the Mr. F.S. Nariman

Committee has suggested certain modalities which are essentially as follows: 32. It is felt that the appropriate methods have to be devised norms of self

regulation rather than external regulation in a respectable and effective way both
for the broadcasters as well as the industry. It has been stated that the steps

constitute a welcome move and should be explored further. The proposed norms

read as follows: 33. The Committee has recommended the following suggestions: The media has largely responsible and more importantly, it wishes to
act responsibly. (iii) Regulation of the media is not an end in itself; and allocative regulation
is necessary because the 'air waves' are public property and cannot technically be
free for all but have to be distributed in a fair manner. However, allocative
regulation is different from regulation per se. All regulation has to be within the
framework of the constitutional provision. However, a fair interpretation of the constitutional dispensation is to recognize
that the principle of proportionality is built into the concept of reasonableness
whereby any restrictions on the media follow the least invasive approach. While
emphasizing the need for media responsibility, such an approach would strike
the correct balance between free speech and the independence of the media. (iv) Although the print media has been placed under the supervision of the Press
Council, there is need for choosing effective measures of supervision -
supervision not control. (v) As far as amendments mooted or proposed to the Press Council Act, 1978 this Committee would support such amendments as they do not violate Article
19(1) (a) - which is a preferred freedom. (vi) Apart from the Press Council Act, 1978 , there is a need for newspapers
and journals to set up their own independent mechanism. (vii) The pre censorship model used for cinema under the Cinematography Act,
1952 or the supervisory model for advertisements is not at all appropriate, and
should not be extended to live print or broadcasting media. (viii) This Committee wholly endorses the need for the formation of (a) principles of responsible broadcasting (b) institutional arrangements of self regulation

But the Committee emphasised the need not to drift from self regulation to
some statutory structure which may prove to be oppressive and full of litigative
potential. (ix) The Committee approved of the NBA model as a process that can be built
upon both at the broadcasting service provider level as well as the industry level
and recommend that the same be incorporated as guidelines issued by this
Court under Act 142 of the Constitution of India - as was done in Vishaka's
case. 34. The suggestions are extremely important and they constitute sufficient

guidelines which need to be adopted. But leave it to the appropriate authorities

to take effective steps for their implementation. At this juncture we are not

inclined to give any positive directions. 35. The writ petitions are disposed of. We express our appreciation for the

members of both the Committees and the Chairman of each Committee Justice

K.T. Thomas and F.S. Nariman who are to be complimented for the pains taken

by them to make recommendations which will go a long way to meet the

challenges posed.