S.H. KAPADIA, CJI 1. Whether clause 6.4.6 of the Interconnect Agreement

between Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) and M/s.

Reliance Infocomm Limited is penal or a pre-estimate of

damages is the question which arises for determination in this

civil appeal? Facts 2. On 18th March, 1997, Reliance had entered into BSO

Interconnect Agreement with Department of

Telecommunications (DoT) for interconnection of their

networks within their respective circles. In October, 2000, 2 with its establishment, the BSNL took over from DoT the

aforementioned BSO Agreement. In November, 2003, the BSO

regime was replaced by Unified Access Services regime which

granted the licence to service providers for both basic and

mobile telephony services as part of a single unified licence.

Reliance was allowed to operate as a Unified Access Service

provider from November 14, 2003 though it was formally

granted the Unified Access Service Licence on 21st September,

2004 with effect from 14th November, 2003. By an addenda

dated 28th February, 2006, the agreement was formally

amended with retrospective effect from 14th November, 2003.

The Agreement deals with local calls, national long distance

calls (NLDC) and international long distance calls (ILD). Calls

of each trunk group are connected through dedicated ports

and are chargeable at rates different from other trunk groups.

Hence, depending on the number of calls handled by a

particular port, charges are levied by BSNL on Reliance, at the

rate of the existing call charges payable for that particular

trunk group. 3. On 24th June, 2003, the DoT issued a circular

specifying that Calling Line Identification (CLI) cannot be

tampered with under any circumstances and also gave

directions to service providers on how to prevent such

tampering. By its circular dated 28th January, 2004, the

above circular of DoT coupled with IUC Regulations dated 29 th

October, 2003 issued by Telecom Regulatory Authority of India

(TRAI) was made effective. 4. In September, 2004, BSNL received several complaints

from its subscribers in Gujarat that they were receiving ILD

calls with local CLI Numbers. On the basis of these reports,

BSNL made its own enquiries by calling the local CLI number,

i.e., 0281-3041000. This was on 5th October, 2004, 6th

October, 2004 and 7th October, 2004. Each time the number

was called the response from the other end was that the

number did not exist. Therefore, on 8th October, 2004, BSNL

reported the matter to Reliance at which time Reliance had

sent its report to DoT regarding the same. In the said report

to DoT, Reliance stated that the wrong routing of ILD calls was

being done by one of its subscribers, viz., M/s. Raj Enterprises 4 (who was given 60 calls circuits). The series of numbers

allotted to Raj Enterprises was from 2813041000 -

2813041199, i.e., 200 numbers. 5. On 13th October, 2004, BSNL gave notice to Reliance

saying that Reliance is having POIs at various Exchanges in

Vadodra; that on monitoring incoming traffic to BSNL as

indicated in CDRs at the above POIs, it was found that there

were numerous calls with CLI as 281 3041000; that, such

calls have been received from 4th September, 2004 and,

therefore, BSNL will charge at Rs. 5.65 per minute for all

incoming calls at POI of Reliance from July, 2004. It may be

noted that Rs. 5.65 per minute is the rate of incoming ISD

calls at TAX POI of Reliance (the word `TAX' stands for Trunk

Automatic Exchange). 6. On 25th October, 2004, BSNL issues its circular to all its

officers by which continuation of unauthorized diversion in

routing of ILD calls is brought to their notice with specific

reference to the case of Reliance. In the circular, it is

highlighted that although Reliance claims that tampering of

CLI has been stopped w.e.f. 16th September, 2004, it is found 5 that international calls have been delivered on the local POI of

Reliance, at trunk group meant for intra circle terminating

traffic, at various SDCC tandem exchanges, with CLI of

Reliance network of other SDCAs which is different from STD

Code and 3039xxxx. 7. On 21st March, 2005, BSNL raised its bill on Reliance

(RIL) levying "penalty" of Rs. 9,17,27,746 with interest from

15th October, 2004 to 15th April, 2005 at 21% p.a. for months

of July, 2004 to October, 2004 in all amounting to Rs.

9,89,68,892/- for illegal routing of calls. This bill dated 21st

March, 2005 superseded the provisional bill dated 15th

October, 2004 raised by the Vadodra Unit of BSNL for Rs. 6.89

cr. for the said period July, 2004 to September, 2004. In the

said bill, the rate applied was Rs. 5.65 per minute. This

demand was made on the basis that numerous calls have been

detected in the POI with CLI as 281 3041000 which pertained

to ISDNB PRI connection given to M/s. Raj Enterprises of

Rajkot. According to Reliance, the calls received in its POIs

were "grey market" calls. That, they were neither wrongly

routed nor their CLIs were tampered. Ultimately, after 6 detailed correspondence between BSNL and Reliance, petition

No. 275 of 2009 was filed by Reliance against the above

impugned demand. 8. By the impugned judgment, TDSAT has held that the

impugned demand of BSNL under clause 6.4.6 of the

Interconnect Agreement is penal in nature; that under the said

clause unauthorized calls had to be detected by BSNL and

that in case of such detection charges were to be levied on

such calls at the highest applicable IUC; that BSNL was under 9. On interpretation of clause 6.4.6, Shri Gopal

Subramanium, learned senior counsel appearing for BSNL

submitted that the said clause merely prescribes the payment

of a sum by Reliance on the happening of an event other than

breach and, consequently, the distinction between penalties

and liquidated damages would not apply because such

distinction applies only to sums payable on breach of the

contract and not when a clause prescribes payment of a sum

on the happening of an event other than breach. In this

regard, learned senior counsel submitted that the Agreement

pertains to telecommunication services which is capital

intensive venture and which requires seamless and

uninterrupted service. A disruption in such services would

result not only in financial loss to BSNL and Reliance but also

to a large number of subscribers of both the companies.

Moreover, learned senior counsel submitted that it is

technically impossible for BSNL to trace or block a call with a

tampered (masked) CLI. That, on a given day a single POI

handles millions of minutes of calls which are handed over to

BSNL and in such a situation it is not commercially feasible to 8 decipher which call is genuine and which call is without

CLI/tampered CLI. Thus, clause 6.4.6 should be interpreted

against the background knowledge referred to above and, if so

read, it becomes clear that the said clause is inserted in the

Agreement for commercial prudence as a thumb rule and

should as such be interpreted in that manner. According to

the learned counsel, the onus of proving the nature of a clause

as penal is on the party who has sued upon it. According to

the learned counsel, clause 6.4.6 gives BSNL an option of

terminating the contract or to prolong the contract on the

payment of an additional sum and thus the same cannot be

characterized as penalty but must be classified as

representing the price for the option of continuing the

contract. Thus, according to the learned counsel clause 6.4.6

represents a condonable default under the contract as

payment under the said clause results in continuance of the

contract. Consequently, the amount paid under the said

clause cannot be brought under Section 74 of the Contract

Act. According to the learned counsel the situation in clause

6.4.6 amounts to an alternative mode of performance of the 9 contract. Lastly, according to the learned counsel where a

contract prescribes payment of a sum on default, even if the

sum payable may be larger than the actual loss, when the

contract is between parties with equal bargaining power, and

as long as the sum payable is not extravagant, it should not be

characterized as penalty. Similarly, where an agreed sum is

payable upon a default if the loss accruing to the claimant

from the default in question cannot be accurately or even

reasonably be ascertained, then such sum cannot be classified

as penalty and once a stipulation is held not to be a penalty,

there is no need for actual proof of loss. 10. On interpretation of clause 6.4.6 of the Interconnect

Agreement, Shri C.S. Vaidyanathan, learned senior counsel for

Reliance and Shri Ramji Srinivasan, learned senior counsel for

Tata Teleservices Limited, submitted that there is no dispute

between the parties regarding the existence of the grey market

and its operations by miscreants who use the telecom facilities

provided by various telecom service providers, including

government operators, like BSNL and MTNL. In this

connection learned counsel placed reliance on the compilation 10 submitted by BSNL. Learned counsel also placed reliance on

the statistical data in support of his above contention. The

learned counsel has also relied upon directions dated

25.10.2004 issued in the form of a circular by BSNL to its field

offices suggesting steps to be taken by them to detect what is

called as "gateway bypass scam". On the interpretation of

clause 6.4.6, learned counsel submitted that the said clause

carries a heavy penalty; that the said clause is attracted in

cases of tampering/wrong routing of calls attributable to some

fault on the part of the operator and not otherwise, and since

in the present case the actions complained are attributable to

an unscrupulous subscriber and not to Reliance, clause 6.4.6

cannot be invoked. In other words, according to the learned

counsel, grey market operations of telecom are a reality

affecting all telecom service operators and cannot become a

ground for invoking clause 6.4.6 which is a unilateral clause

regardless of the fault of the private operator. Learned senior

counsel further submitted that the contention of BSNL

regarding "strict civil liability" is entirely misplaced as BSNL

does not possess any statutory power to impose such liability. 11 On applicability of Section 74 of the Contract Act, learned

counsel submitted that interconnection between different

telecom service providers is essentially in the interest of the

subscribers. That, such interconnection is mandated by the

license; that the interconnection charges are regulated by TRAI

under Section 11 of the 1997 Act; that no service provider can

charge interconnection charges more than what is specified by

the regulator; and that clause 6.4.6 of the Interconnection

Agreement between BSNL and Reliance is a one sided penal

provision insisted upon by BSNL. That, what BSNL can

recover is either consideration for services rendered by their

interconnection or compensatory damages in case of breach of

any of the clauses of the said Agreement. This is because the Contract Act does not contemplate any other amount being

received by one contracting party (BSNL) from the other

contracting party (Reliance). That, the consideration for

services rendered by interconnection is regulated by TRAI it is

not open to BSNL to charge what they like. On the other

hand, the TRAI regulations do not provide for quantum of

damages or a penalty in case of breach of the interconnection 12 agreement. Therefore, if clause 6.4.6 is attracted before

breach, as submitted by learned counsel for BSNL, and if

clause 6.4.6 is not compensatory, then the amount demanded

is without consideration and would be unconscionable.

According to the learned counsel clause 6.4.6 in the

Interconnect Agreement confers only a contractual right.

BSNL, according to the learned counsel, is neither the

sovereign exercising legislative or executive or police powers

nor is BSNL a regulator. It is not vested with any powers to

impose any penalty for breach of contractual terms nor can

BSNL be vested with such powers as BSNL is one of the

several operators in the National Telecom Policy of 1994 and

1999. That, DoT or the TRAI may exercise regulatory or police

powers imposing a penalty or strict civil liability for violation of

any of the terms and conditions of the license when public

interest so requires. However, BSNL does not have any

statutory, regulatory or police powers to impose strict civil

liability. That, strict civil liability has been recognized and

upheld where it is imposed by the State exercising legislative

power in respect of violation of tax liabilities. It has also been 13 recognized and enforced by courts in tortuous action in regard

to ultra hazardous activity or product liability but even in such

cases the liability is strict in the sense that no negligence need

be proved but quantum of damages will have to be proved and

it will be only compensatory and not penal because penal

liability can be imposed only by legislation. According to the

learned counsel the concept of strict civil liability or absolute

liability is alien to the scheme, purport and intent of the law of

contracts. On clause 6.4.6 learned counsel submitted that the

said clause occurs in Chapter 8 relating to interconnection

charges and it is in respect of "wrongly routed calls".

According to the learned counsel the said clause 6.4.6 is

premised entirely on the breach of contractual term requiring

calls being handed over in the specific trunk route or calls

being handed over with an appropriate CLI. That, clause 6.4.6 (d) is a pointer to sub-clause (a) and sub-clause (b) being the

remedy for breach, in addition to the rights that BSNL has for

disconnection of POI or temporary suspension of Interconnect

Agreement for misuse. Thus, sub-clauses (a) and (b) and (d)

can be invoked only in case of a breach of the term requiring 14 handing over of calls in the specified trunk route or handing

over of calls with appropriate CLI and, therefore, it is incorrect

to say that clause 6.4.6 is attracted before the breach of

contract and that the provision for remedy of breach is only in

clause 8.2 or 8.3. That, it is equally incorrect to contend that

the provision for breach or damages is only what is contained

in clause 11 of the general terms. According to the learned

counsel clause 6.4.6 can be in the nature of reasonable

compensation or compensatory damage only if the charges are

recovered in respect of the offending calls and not in respect of

the legitimate calls. Any other interpretation will militate

against the compensatory nature of damages and will amount

to imposition of a penalty without legislative sanction and by

one party to the contract usurping sovereign, police and

regulatory powers. Learned counsel submitted that the two

months time limit cannot make clause 6.4.6 reasonable or

compensatory, if all calls, irrespective of whether they are

rightly or wrongly routed, or with CLI or without CLI or

disguised CLI are charged at the highest IUC rates. Such a

provision, according to the learned counsel, will be ex facie 15 penal in nature. Learned counsel submitted that there is no

merit in the contention of BSNL that technology does not

enable tracing of every disguised call. According to the

learned counsel this argument of lack of technology would be

available to BSNL only to the extent that all calls of the

offending subscriber, such as Raj Enterprises, may be treated

as unauthorized calls. However, beyond that, calls of other

subscribers, in respect of whom there is not even a whisper of

illegality, cannot be clubbed with the offending calls because

that would amount to imposition of penalty. Learned counsel

submitted that under the Contract Act no party is entitled to

recover punitive damages for any breach of contract. That, in

terms of Section 73 of the Act, the party which suffers by any

breach of contract is entitled to receive, from the party who

has broken the contract, compensation for any loss or damage

caused to him thereby, which naturally arose in the usual

course of things from such breach. Such compensation is not

to be given for any remote or indirect loss or damage.

According to the learned counsel in terms of section 73 of the

Contract Act in order to receive compensation for loss or 16 damage, the party claiming such compensation must prove

the alleged loss or damage. However, section 74 carves out an

exception to the ordinary legal requirement of proving loss or

damage. In terms of section 74 when a contract is breached, if

a sum is named in the contract as the amount to be paid in

case of such breach or if the contract contains no other

stipulation by way of penalty, the party complaining of the

breach is entitled, whether or not actual loss or damage is

proved to have been caused thereby, to receive from the party

who has broken the contract, reasonable compensation not

exceeding the amount so named or, as the case may be, the

penalty stipulated for. It thus follows, according to the learned

counsel, from section 74 of the Contract Act that regardless of

whether the contract specifies a sum to be paid in the event of

breach or whether it contains any other penal provision, the

party complaining of the breach is only entitled to receive

reasonable compensation. In the alternative, learned counsel

submitted that inasmuch as clause 6.4.6 provides for payment

of an amount beyond reasonable compensation for loss or

damage, it is to that extent unenforceable in law. In this 17 connection learned senior counsel has placed reliance on the

judgments, Fateh Chand v. Balkishan Das [(1964) 1 SCR

515]; Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited v. Motorola India

Private Limited [(2009) 2 SCC 337]; Maula Bux v. Union of

India [( 1969) 2 SCC 554] and Union of India v. Raman Iron

Foundry [(1974) 2 SCC 231]. According to the learned

counsel clause 6.4.6 is wholly one sided penal provision

inasmuch as it entitles the appellant to receive moneys from

Reliance on account of breach and not vice-a-versa. Learned

counsel further submitted that in the instant case BSNL has

alleged that international calls have been delivered on its

network as local/national calls from a particular number

(02813041000), belonging to a particular subscriber (Raj

Enterprises), of the network of Reliance and are consequently

wrongly routed/tampered calls. However, BSNL is unable to

precisely identify such calls. In other words, BSNL is not in a

position to prove which precise calls delivered from the said

number were, in fact, international calls delivered as

local/national calls. However, applying clause 6.4.6 BSNL

seeks to charge for not only all calls delivered from said 18 number at the highest possible IUC rates, but, additionally

seeks to charge at the highest rate for all calls delivered at the

concerned POI for the relevant month as also all calls for the

preceding two months from entirely different numbers

belonging to other subscribers where there is no allegation

whatsoever by BSNL of wrong routing or tampering. In other

words, even for numbers and calls with respect to which there

is no allegation of breach, wrong routing or tampering, BSNL

seeks to charge at the highest IUC rates which bears no nexus

whatsoever with the loss or damage suffered by BSNL. It is

submitted that to this extent clause 6.4.6 falls foul of section

74 and is therefore unenforceable. Charging for numbers and

calls which have no nexus whatsoever with the number

identified by BSNL as having been misused is to impose in

terrorem penalty upon Reliance bearing no connection with

the loss suffered by BSNL on account of alleged wrong routing

or tampering and therefore the amount claimed by BSNL does

not fall within the ambit of "compensation" and is legally

unrecoverable. At the highest reasonable compensation in

terms of section 74 might cover charging at the rate prescribed 19 by clause 6.4.6 for all calls received from the number of Raj

Enterprises, without having to prove that all such calls were,

in fact, international calls delivered as local/national calls, but

no more. In this connection, learned counsel pointed out that

in the instant case the calls from Raj Enterprises are about

one lakh for the month of September and October 2004.

However, the total number of calls on the POI for September

and October are about 34 lakhs and if one adds the entire

calls for July and August 2004 also there are about 35 lakh

calls in addition and, therefore, the charges in terms of clause

6.4.6 at the highest rate can be only for 69 lakh calls in

addition to one lakh calls from the subscribe in respect of

whose number the allegation of wrong routing/tampering is

leveled by BSNL. Lastly, learned counsel submitted that there

is no merit in the contention of the BSNL that clause 6.4.6

prescribes the payment of a sum on the happening of an event

other than breach and consequently section 74 would have no

application. According to the learned counsel if such

contention is accepted it would lead to absurd consequence

because it would mean that wrong routing of calls and 20 tampering of CLI would amount to performance of the contract

rather than its breach. Moreover, according to BSNL the bills

raised by them are by way of penalty. It is clear from the bill

dated 21.03.2005. For the aforestated reason it is submitted

that there is no merit in any of the above contentions. Coming

to the validity of the demand notice and disconnection notice

issued by BSNL, learned counsel submitted that the demand

notices issued by BSNL are invalid since the same have been

raised in 2004 without any provision in the Interconnect

Agreement. That, the bills raised by BSNL were admittedly

issued not in terms of any provision in the Interconnect

Agreement but in terms of the letter of BSNL(Headquarters)

dated 28.1.2004 which was issued only for implementation of

IUC regulations of TRAI dated October, 2003. Therefore,

according to the learned counsel bills dated 13.10.2004,

15.10.2004 and 21.3.2005 are invalid. Learned counsel

submitted that clause 6.4.6 was inserted through an Addenda

signed on 28.2.2006. The said Addenda was made applicable

retrospectively with effect from 14.11.2003 with the exception

of applicable IUC charges including ADC and interconnection 21 arrangements made between the parties during the

intervening period which included ICU charges. That, the said

clause 6.4.6 is covered in the IUC charges which was carved

as an exception. Admittedly, at the relevant time, TRAI had

prescribed applicable IUC charges whereby depending on the

nature of the call (local, national, international) certain

identified charges were applicable. The applicable IUC charges

did not however contemplate charges for local/national call at

the highest available international rate, which the BSNL now

seeks to do purportedly by invoking clause 6.4.6. Thus,

according to the learned counsel from the express terms of the

Addenda itself it is clear that clause 6.4.6 falls within the

chapter entitled Interconnection Charges "which is expressly

excluded from retrospective operation". Learned counsel

submitted that in any event such purported retrospective

application of a penal provision such as clause 6.4.6 violates Article 20(1) of the Constitution. It is submitted that BSNL

could not have validated the bills issued illegally in 2004 on

the basis of the provisions introduced in the Interconnect

Agreement subsequently in 2006 when clause 6.4.6 was not 22 given retrospective effect and in the absence of any express

provision in the subsequent Addenda the bills cannot be

validated. In any case, according to the learned counsel the

disconnection notice dated 2.2.2009 was for alleged illegal

routing under NLD interconnect agreement; that the said NLD

interconnect agreement was signed on 1.11.2002 which did

not have clause 6.4.6 as it exists in the Addenda dated

28.2.2006; that clause 6.4.6 in the interconnect agreement for

NLD was different from clause 6.4.6 in the Addenda dated

28.2.2006 of the Interconnect Agreement and that clause 6.4.6

of the NLD interconnect agreement did not provide for

charging at the highest rate and that too for the previous two

months. Learned counsel submitted that the Addenda to the

NLD agreement was signed on 17.11.2005 incorporating

therein clause 6.4.6 (a), (b), (c) and (d) but the said agreement

was not retrospective and was effective from the date of

signing of the Addenda dated 17.11.2005. Consequently,

according to the learned counsel the impugned bills raised by

BSNL were illegal and invalid inasmuch as they were not

raised in accordance with the provisions of the Interconnect 23 Agreement between the parties. For the afore-stated reasons,

learned counsel submitted that there was no merit in the civil

appeal filed by BSNL and the same needs to be dismissed. Relevant provisions of: However, distinguishing exchange codes will
 be used for the DoT and the LICENSEE's
 exchanges i.e. linked numbering scheme will
 be followed within the SDCA as per the latest
 National Fundamental Plan. 2.4.5 Separate exchange codes or number
 ranges shall be allocated to the DoT and the
 LICENSEE's exchanges by the TELECOM
 AUTHORITY. Utilisation of unused exchange
 codes or number ranges out of those allocated
 to the DoT and the LICENSEE's exchanges
 shall be reviewed by TELECOM AUTHORITY
 from time to time for optimum utilisation.

 2.5 Calling Line Presentation

 2.5.1 LICENSEE's network shall be capable
 of transmitting and receiving calling line
 identification which shall include Access code,
 Area code and Subscriber number. Chapter 6
 Interconnection Charges 24 6.1 Interconnectivity to DOT Network

6.1.1 Provision of links to interconnect
LICENSEE's network with DoT's network will
be the responsibility of the LICENSEE as
provided under Clause 2.1.2 and 2.1.3. 6.2 Detailed Billing

6.2.1 For every STD/ ISD call originating
from the LICENSEE's network and accepted by
DoT, a detailed billing and/ or bulk billing
record will be generated in the LDCC TAX. For
this purpose calling subscriber's identity shall
be supplied by the LICENSEE for detailed
billing purpose. 6.4 Access Charges

6.4.1 For purposes of calculating the
access charge, the point at which the calls are
delivered to DoT's network is treated as
originating point. The calls will be measured
from the point of entry to the destination at the
applicable rate of DoT. 6.4.3 The traffic delivered on any DOT
LDCC TAX from LICENSEE's LDCC TAX/
SDCC tandem/ local exchange will be
measured on the incoming junctions of the
DOT's LDCC TAX at the destination wise pulse
rates applicable to the calls generated locally
at the same station where the DOT's LDCC
TAX is located. 6.4.5 For international calls originating in
the LICENSEE's network and accepted by DoT
(ref. para 6.2.1), DoT will bill the LICENSEE on
monthly basis as ISD Access charge at a rate 25 of Rs. 0.70 per unit measured call at the point
 of interconnection. The responsibility of
 paying to the international carrier (presently
 Videsh Sanchar Nigam Limited) will lie with
 the DoT. (ii) Addenda to interconnect agreement after migration
 dated 28th February, 2006

 Whereas M/s Reliance Infocomm Limited
 (previously known as M/s. Reliance Telecom
 Private Limited) has signed an Interconnect
 Agreement on 18.3.1997 with Department of
 Telecommunications {now Bharat Sanchar
 Nigam Limited [hereinafter called the BSNL
 (previously called as DOT]} for interconnection
 of their Basic Service network with the
 network of BSNL in Gujarat Circle Service
 Area. Whereas the President of India granted to M/s.
 Reliance Infocomm Limited [hereinafter called
 the UASL (previously called as LICENSEE)] a
 License No. 17-6/95-BS-II/GUJARAT on 18th
 March 1997 under Section 4(1) of the Indian
 Telegraph Act, 1885 to provide Basic
 Telephone Service in the Service Area of
 Gujarat Circle on the terms and conditions
 specified in such License. AND whereas the UASL has, upon permission
 of Licensor, migrated to Unified Access Service
 License regime on 14th November 2003 for
 above stated Service Area, whereupon the said
 license agreement was amended and revised
 on 21st September 2004 with effect from 14th
 November 2003 on the terms and conditions
 specified in such amended License No.10-
 05/2004-BS-II/RIL/GUJARAT and therefore 26 the said Interconnect agreement is required to
be amended and revised as described in
Chapters, Annexures and Schedules appended
hereto with effect from 14th November 2003.

AND whereas Interconnect Usage Charges
(IUC) Regulation become effective from 1st May
2003 which was amended on 29th October
2003 to become effective from 1st February
2004 and further amended on 6th January
2005 to become effective from 1st February
2005. IT IS NOW FURTHER AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 2(3) UASL shall be responsible to provide,
install, test, make operational and maintain all
interconnection facilities on its side of point of
interconnection (POI) unless otherwise
mutually agreed. 2(11) It is further agreed that any kind of
breach of any of the terms of this agreement by
the UASL shall entitle BSNL to levy damages
on the UASL. Quantum of damages assessed
and levied by BSNL shall be final and not
challengeable by the UASL. Chapter - 1
Definitions
 In this Agreement, words and expressions
will have the following meanings as are
respectively assigned to them unless
repugnant to the subject or context: "UASL" means a registered Indian
Company, which has been awarded License for
providing the UNIFIED ACCESS SERVICE. CLI or "CALLING LINE IDENTIFICATION": 6.4.3 The traffic from / to fully
mobile network delivered on any BSNL's LDCC
TAX from UASL's GMSC will be measured on
the incoming / outgoing junctions of the
BSNL's LDCC TAX. 6.4.6 WRONGLY ROUTED CALLS (a) Unauthorised calls i.e. calls other than
specified for that trunk group if detected, for
which the applicable IUC is higher than the
IUC applicable for calls prescribed in that
trunk group, then BSNL shall charge the UASL
the highest applicable IUC, as applicable for
such unauthorised calls, for all the calls
recorded on this trunk group from the date of
provisioning of that POI or for the preceding
two months whichever is less. (b) the CLI based barring facility shall be
activated at the POIs wherever technically
feasible to ensure that the traffic handed over
by BSNL is in the appropriate trunk groups
only. Wherever it is technically not feasible to
activate CLI based barring, periodic monitoring
of the incoming trunk group shall be done by
BSNL to ensure this objective. The calls
received by BSNL without CLI or
modified/tampered CLI from UASL shall be
charged at the highest slab i.e. as for ISD
Calls. In case such calls are received by BSNL
on any trunk group, then all the calls recorded 37 on this trunk group shall be charged at the
rates applicable for IUC of incoming ISD calls
from the date of provisioning of that POI or for
the preceding two months, whichever is less. (c) When CDR based billing is introduced in
BSNL's network some of the trunk groups
shall be merged. In such cases also, in case
unauthorised or Incoming International Call,
without CLI call, call with tampered CLI is
handed over to BSNL at the merged trunk
group, then BSNL shall charge the UASL the
highest applicable IUC, as prescribed in
clauses 6.4.6(a) above for unauthorised calls &
6.4.6(b) above for incoming International call,
without CLI call, call with tampered CLI, for all
calls recorded on this merged trunk group
from the date of provisioning of that POI or for
the preceding two months whichever is less. (d) In addition, BSNL shall also have the right
for taking other legal actions including
disconnection of POIs or temporary suspension
of the interconnection arrangements under
misuse. 6.4.7 All the required information in
monthly certificate of details of traffic (in
minutes) as prescribed in Schedule I shall be
submitted by UASL to BSNL in a timely
manner. This information includes outgoing
STD and ISD traffic from its limited mobile/
fully mobile/ cellular access network handed
over to each of private NLDOs/ ILDOs
separately and incoming STD and ISD traffic to
its network accepted from each of private
NLDOs/ ILDOs separately. 6.5 Billing 38 6.5.2 At present CDR based billing
system for POIs is not available in BSNL's
network at all locations. Wherever BSNL is
having CDR based billing system for POIs,
BSNL shall bill the IUC based on processing of
CDRs. However, wherever CDR based billing
system is not available in BSNL's network, the
billing of IUC shall be done based on IUC
pulses as described in Schedule I. The per
MCU charge for these IUC pulses being Rs
0.10 for all types of calls except originating ISD
calls and any other call specially specified in
which case per MCU charge shall be Rs 1.20.
BSNL reserves the right to charge Access
Deficit Charge (ADC) based on distance from
originating SDCC to terminating SDCC as and
when necessary technical arrangements are
put in place by BSNL. 8.2 Termination

8.2.1 This Agreement shall continue
for the period indicated in Clause 8.1 above
unless any of the following events occur: 8.2.2 This Agreement also may be
terminated by either Party giving 30 days
notice to the other in the event that either
Party. (a) breaches any provision of this Agreement;
provided, however, that the breaching Party
has been notified in writing of its failure by the
non-breaching Party and the breaching Party
has not remedied its failure within twenty (20)
Working Days; and the approval of Licensor or
TRAI, as the case may be, has been obtained
for such termination. In the event, the
approval is accorded with conditions, regard
being had to the general interest of the
customers, the same will be fully complied
with before the final act of disconnection of
interconnection arrangements becomes
effective. Provided, however, in the event no
intervention is made by the Regulator/
Licensor during the notice period, the approval
shall be deemed to have been accorded. (b) ceases to carry on business. (c) Either Party is unable to discharge its
obligation under this agreement. However, in
case of Force Majeure procedure as indicated
below shall be followed: This will be in addition to other remedies
available under the agreement. withdraw the services if the other party
misuses or indulges in any act which will
constitute misuse of POI or will result in
violation of instructions issued by Licensor/
Regulator. The notice period for (a) and (b) above, if any,
shall be as specified in the respective clause of
the agreement. SCHEDULE I 41 Interconnection Usage Charge (IUC) 3. Due to non-availability of CDR based
billing plateform, IUC applicable for the calls
handed-over to BSNL at the PoI (Point of
Interconnect) have been converted into
different pulse rates as per Appendix B. The
pulse rates have been calculated at a per MCU
(Metered Call Unit) rate of Rs 0.10 for all calls
except outgoing ISD calls which shall be
measured at a rate of Rs 1.20 per MCU. The
bills for IUC shall be raised by BSNL to the
interconnecting operator based on the bulk
billing of MCUs on the incoming trunk groups.
The pulse duration with an accuracy of 10
milli seconds shall be applied at the POIs of all
UASL with BSNL as prescribed in Appendix B
(in brackets) wherever technically feasible in
BSNL switches. At present the implementation
of 10 milli seconds accuracy in pulse duration
is possible in new technology switches of BSNL
i.e. EWSD, AXE-10, OCB-283 and 5ESS. 5. The bills for IUC raised by access
providers to BSNL shall accompany with a
certificate that they have submitted a signed
certificate to circle office BSNL regarding the
volume of intra circle, NLD and ILD traffic as
per the Appendix-C. Further processing of
these bills, for payment to access providers for
the traffic terminated in their network, shall be
done only on receipt of this certificate from
them. In case called upon, the complete
record of traffic will be produced by access
providers for verification by the technical audit
team constituted by BSNL. The procedure for
billing and recovery of ADC in respect of inter-
circle STD calls from cellular / WLL (M) and
outgoing / incoming ISD calls routed through 42 a NLDO or ILDO other than BSNL and intra- circle traffic from cellular/ WLL(M) to fixed
networks are enclosed in Appendix-D. 11. The CLI based barring facility has been
activated by BSNL at the PoIs wherever
technically feasible to ensure that the traffic
handed over to BSNL is in the appropriate
trunk groups only. Wherever it is technically
not feasible to activate CLI based barring,
periodic monitoring of the incoming trunk
groups shall be done by BSNL to ensure this
objective. In case of wrongly routed calls IUC
shall be charged as below: Appendix - C

 CERTIFICATE OF TRAFFIC ROUTED VIA OTHER NLD / ILD
 OEPRATORS AND INTRA CIRCLE TRAFFIC
 {to be given by cellular operators and basic operators}

 For the Month of ....................., 200

Licensed Service Area .........................
Name of Operator.................................
Type of Service (Cellular / WLL-M/Fixed)....
Period: From .......................to ..................... Dated ................... at ...........................

This is to certify that the details of traffic routed other than
through BSNL as NLDO/ ILDO/ transit operator in respect of: 44 1. As per TRAI's IUC Regulation dated 6th January, 2005 for
 such inter and intra circle calls that are routed through
 the BSNL as either NLDO or transit operator, the ADC
 amount is received directly by BSNL from the call
 originating operator. For ILD calls routed through BSNL
 as NLDO, it receives ADC from call originating operator in
 case of outgoing calls and the ILD operator for the
 incoming calls. However, BSNL has also to receive ADC
 from cellular/ WLL(M) originating inter circle calls, the
 originating ILD calls in cellular/ WLL (M) networks and
 terminating ILD calls carried by other NLDO/ ILDO, or a
 combination thereof for the ILD calls. In addition to
 above BSNL has also to receive ADC from cellular/ WLL
 (M) originating intra circle calls to fixed networks not
 routed through BSNL... (iii) NLD Interconnect Agreement between BSNL and
 Reliance dated 1st November, 2002

 Chapter - 1
 Definitions

 In this Agreement, words and expressions
 will have the following meanings as are
 respectively assigned to them unless the
 contrary intention appears from the context: "SHORT DISTANCE CHARGING AREA
 (SDCA)": means one of the several areas into
 which a Long Distance Charging Area is
 divided and declared as such for the purpose
 of charging for long distance calls and within
 which the local call charges and local
 numbering scheme is applicable. SDCAs, with
 a few exceptions, coincide with revenue tehsil
 / taluk. Chapter 2

 Technical Issues Pertaining to
 Interconnection

2.1 Interconnectivity to BSNL Network

2.1.5 RIL shall terminate its traffic on to
the network of BSNL as mandated by TRAI
from time to time. RIL and BSNL shall deliver
all calls on each other's network with CLI in
the terminating SDCA. Both parties reserve
the right to reject calls without CLI. 2.4 Numbering Plan

2.4.1 RIL shall be allocated carrier
selection code by the LICENSOR for dynamic
selection of carrier for long distance calls. All
calls for which dynamic carrier selection code
has been dialed shall be routed accordingly
subject to technical feasibility. Chapter 6
 Interconnection Charges

6.1 Interconnectivity to BSNL Network

6.1.1 Provision of links to interconnect
RIL's network with BSNL's network at the
technically feasible SDCC Tandem exchange
will be the responsibility of the RIL as provided
under Clause 2.1.2 and 2.1.3. 6.4 Access Charges

6.4.6 If BSNL detects that Incoming
International calls are being handed over or 47 have been made over to BSNL at any other
port which is not meant for carrying such
calls, BSNL shall be free to charge RIL
minimum access charge for Incoming
International calls as at clause 6.4.2 above for
all the calls recorded on these ports from the
date of provisioning of that POI or for the
preceding two months whichever is less apart
from taking other legal actions including
disconnection of POIs or temporary suspension
of the Interconnection Agreements. No
terminating calls other than International calls
shall be accepted from RIL without CLI. In
case of calls without CLI, termination charge
as per clause 6.4.2 above shall be charged
from RIL. 6.6.1 Access charges shall be billed by
BSNL based on bulk billing of traffic recorded
by BSNL at the point of interconnection. For
every STD/ ISD call carried by RIL and
accepted by BSNL at POI, a detailed billing
record wherever possible or bulk billing record
will be generated in the SDCC Tandem. The
RIL shall supply calling subscriber's identity
for detailed billing purpose. 12. Telecommunication is all about transferring information

from one location to another. This includes telephone

conversations, television signals, computer files and other

types of data. To transfer the information, you need a channel

between the two locations. This may be a wire pair, radio

signal, optical fiber, etc. Telecommunication companies

receive payment for transferring their customer's information,

while they themselves pay to establish and maintain the

channel. (ii) Relevant technical terms used in the Interconnect
 Agreement r/w the addenda (a) Gateway Mobile Switching Centre (GMSC): It is a

 special kind of MSC that is used to route calls outside

 the mobile network. Whenever a call for a mobile

 subscriber comes from outside the mobile network or

 the subscriber wants to make a call to somebody

 outside the mobile network, the call is routed through 49 GMSC. In short, it serves as an interconnection

 between MSC and PSTN (network). (b) PSTN: It means Public Switched Telephone Network. The term `PSTN' refers to inter-connection of switching

 systems in the PSTN (Exchange). Switching network

 refers to the component inside a switching system that

 switches one circuit to another circuit. (c) Point Of Interconnection (POI): It is a point at which

 the GMSC of a mobile network of UASL and the

 Gateway Switch of BSNL are inter-connected by a

 facility of inter-connection seeker (Reliance in this case). (d) Trunk Group: It consists of several trunks (lines)

 provided as a group by the local telephone company or

 any other carrier. Trunk group is a part of POI (see

 clause 2.1.13). (e) Unified Access Services: It means a

 telecommunication service provided by a

 telecommunication system for conveyance of messages

 through wired or wireless telegraphy. The Unified

 Access Services refer to transmission of voice or non- 50 voice messages over the network of the licensee

 (Reliance in this case). It, however, does not cover

 broadcasting of messages. However, the subscriber has

 to be registered and authenticated at the network point

 of registration and approved numbering plan shall be

 applicable. Thus, UASP is the abbreviated term for the

 expression "Unified Access Service Provider". (f) International Gateway: A Gateway is a network point

 that acts as an entrance to another network.

 Conceptually, it is the point of inter-connection (POI),

 i.e., the point of entry for the international calls to the

 telecom network of India. A POI is a mutually agreed

 upon point of demarcation where the Exchange of traffic

 between the two telecom networks takes place. In the

 case of international calls traffic, i.e., inter-country

 telecommunications, the POI is the International

 Gateway. In this case, we are concerned with the

 international gateway of BSNL. However, for intra-

 country calls traffic, every local telecom network

 provider (Reliance in this case) is supposed to set up a 51 local POI which acts as the entry point for all incoming

 telecom traffic. The local POI has got to be under the

 care and control of the local telecom provider for whose

 network the local POI acts as an entry point. This local

 POI is the location where details of all incoming landing

 telecom traffic, namely, the CLI number, their

 destination number, their time-stamp details, their

 duration, etc. have to be logged for future accounting

 and tracing requirements. Thus, we have two kinds of

 POIs, namely, international POIs and local POIs.

 Similarly, we also have two kinds of CLIs, namely, local

 and international CLIs. (g) Calling Line Identification (CLI): CLI means

 information generated by the Network capability which

 identifies and forwards the calling number through the

 interconnected BSNL's/ UASL's network. (h) Gateway Switch: It is a switch which has the capability

 to perform Gateway functions like sending and

 receiving signals, sending and receiving various types of

 information to the other operators' network in a multi- 52 operator environment such as operators' identity,

 charging area information, etc. as well as transportation

 of CLI, generating call data records (CDRs) for an off

 line billing system giving all necessary details of the call

 for proper settlement of accounts in a multi-operator

 environment and security monitoring functions. (i) National Long Distance Service Operator (NLDO): 13. For the sake of easy understanding, we need to discuss

the above terms in the Agreement in the light of international

call(s) coming to India and not vice-versa. 14. The basic underlying principle of clause 6.4.6 is that an

international call shall remain international right from the

point of origination to the point of termination. 15. At the outset one needs to ascertain the contractual

obligations of the UASL (Reliance in this case) under the

Agreement as modified by the addenda dated 28th February,

2006. 16. Interconnection agreement prescribes terms and

conditions under which two licensees or service providers 55 interconnect their networks to allow their respective

subscribers to have seamless access to each other's networks.

It is a binding contract that binds each contracting party with

respect to interconnection arrangements including

commercial, technical and operational. However, the scope

and content of each such contract may vary. Under the said

Agreement, IUC payments are divided into four heads: (i)

originating charges; (ii) carriage charges; (iii) termination

charges; and (iv) ADC payments. ADC payment, as a concept,

is a fee paid by cellular, UAS, national long distance and

international long distance subscribers. This payment is in

the nature of tax as no service is rendered in return. ADC

payments are to cross subsidize BSNL for developing its fixed

network in non-lucrative areas. The licensee(s) makes ADC

payments based on their adjusted gross revenues. These

payments are later on transferred to BSNL. An IUC charge is,

thus, a payment by one service provider to another for the use

of network elements to originate, transit or terminate calls.

BSNL receives ADC payments for international calls made to

fixed numbers. These payments are made by either national 56 long distance licensee(s) or international long distance

licensee(s) that collects them. BSNL receives ADC payments

for all international calls from cellular and limited mobility

numbers. These payments are collected by ILDOs and given to

BSNL. Similarly, ADC payments on calls from international

roaming subscribers are collected by host service providers

and paid to BSNL. ADC payments for international calls are

higher than similar payments for national long distance or

local calls. This has tempted some licensees to engage in

ingenious schemes to avoid making ADC payments. One such

scheme is masking. Call masking takes place when a licensee

deliberately alters the identity of an incoming international call

before handing it over to another service provider at an

interconnection point, i.e., POI. The international calling

party's identity is obliterated (i.e. international CLI is wiped

out) and the said international call is made to appear as it

were from a domestic/ national number. This technique

enables evasion of ADC payments at enhanced rates for

international calls. Today, all private automated branch

exchanges (PBX) are computerized. It is important to note 57 that a Caller ID (CID) is a signal. Most subscribers have a

caller ID display unit at their residence to receiver caller ID

signals which also indicates the nature of the call - whether it

is local/ national or international. As stated, whenever a call

for a mobile subscriber comes from outside the mobile

network or vice-versa, the call is routed through a special kind

of gateway switch which is called as GMSC. It serves as an

interconnection between mobile switching centre and PSTN,

which is a network. However, it is at the POI (point of

interconnection) that the GMSC of the mobile network of UASL

gets interconnected to the GMSC of BSNL by a facility of the

interconnection seeker (which in this case happens to be

Reliance). Broadly speaking, we have two types of POI,

namely, international and local POI. Under the Agreement,

UASL agrees to ensure that its interconnect facilities delivered

at each POI conforms to the specified standards for

interconnection and that UASL shall be responsible to provide,

install, test, etc. all such interconnection facilities on its side

of POI. Therefore, every POI has two sides. Eg. in our case,

one side of POI is that of BSNL and the other side is that of 58 Reliance. The Calling Line Identification (CLI) means

information generated by the network capability which

identifies and forwards the calling number through the

interconnected BSNL's network. Under clause 2.1.13, Trunk

Group is a part of POI. One must keep in mind that the above

aspects are not only technological, they are maintained for

billing and accounting purposes. They generate data(s) in the

form of CDRs and billing records in detail at the International

Gateway Exchange of ILDO (International POI), at the NLDO

Trunk Automatic Exchange of NLDO (National POI) and Local

Telephone Exchange of BSO (Local POI for our understanding).

At each stage, the billing record is generated so that if an

UASL is riding on the network of BSNL, the former has to pay

for the incoming international call in terms of duration, etc.

and even in the case of local calls or national calls which

includes the distance parameter. Under clause 2.1.13, the

fully mobile, limited mobile and fixed services network of UASL

shall be having separate POIs with BSNL, which shall be

treated separately for set up costs, port charges, etc. Under

clause 2.1.15.3.3, for the purpose of international call the 59 UASL shall handover the call to BSNL at the originating Long

Distance Charging Centre (i.e. LDCC TAX). Lastly, under

clause 6.4.7, all the required information shall be submitted in

the form of monthly certificate as prescribed in Schedule I

shall be submitted to BSNL by UASL. It will indicate details of

the traffic routed other than through BSNL as NLDO/ILDO in

respect of international long distance calls (both incoming and

outgoing). It also indicates procedure for billing and recovery

of ADC inter alia in respect of ISD calls (both incoming and

outgoing). This is relevant also because under clause 2.1.5.2

calls from fully mobile subscribers of other Telecom Service

Providers of the different service area (national roaming) or

Other Country (international roaming) have got to be handed

over by UASL to BSNL on separate trunk groups at the

Gateway TAX of BSNL of that service area. Under clause

2.1.9.2, no by pass of traffic shall be resorted to by any party

by delivering the traffic at any POI other than the specified POI

and in case unauthorized diversion in routing comes to notice,

BSNL shall be free to disconnect that POI in that area. Thus,

under the Agreement if UASL like Reliance receives an 60 international call at its exchange, its primary duty will be

under the contract to identify it and to forward it to the

appropriate trunk group of BSNL. Now, as alleged if the

international call(s) falls on the local POI of Reliance, the latter

is obliged under the contract to identify the call, whether it is

local or national or international, and accordingly forwards it

to the appropriate trunk group of BSNL. For the above

reasons, it is also stipulated in clause 2.9.1 (which deals with

network integrity and screening) that it shall be the duty of the

UASL to prevent wrong transmission. In fact, under clauses

2.9.2 and 2.9.3 the establishment of proper screening function

at its Gateway shall be the obligation of the UASL so as to

detect signals outside the inter-working specification of TEC.

As a corollary, clause 6.4.6(a) inter alia provides that calls on

non-specified trunk groups (like international calls landing on

the local POIs), if detected, for which the IUC rate applicable is

higher (for example, for international calls the IUC rate is

much higher than IUC rates for local/national calls), then the

higher IUC rate would be applicable for such unauthorized

calls. In such a case, BSNL would be free to charge the UASL 61 the higher IUC for all calls recorded on these POIs from the

date of provisioning of that POI [at Vadodara in this case] or

for preceding two months, whichever is less. Similarly, under

clause 6.4.6(b), if the UASL masks or disguises the

international call as local call that UASL will have to pay the

higher IUC rate meant for international calls to BSNL from the

date of provisioning of that POI or for preceding two months,

whichever is less. Thus, if there is masking of CLI for the calls

generated and forwarded from the telephone of UASL, then it

would be the primary duty of that UASL to prevent such

misuse and failing which BSNL would be free to invoke clause

6.4.6. It is important to note that clause 6.4.6 restricts the

charge to last two preceding months. The charge under clause

6.4.6 is not dependent upon number of calls and even the

period of misuse of services is restricted to last two preceding

months. Thus, when an international call, as in this case,

lands on the local POI of the UASL it knows the nature of the

call. There is a difference between an international CLI and

the local/national CLI. The billing record of that POI indicates

the nature of the call. It is the contractual obligation of the 62 UASL to maintain the billing records in detail (including the

CDR and the monthly certificate in the prescribed form).

Further, when the international call(s) lands at the local POI of

the UASL, the incoming traffic bypasses the authorized route -

international gateway exchange of BSNL, the NLDO trunk

exchange of NLDO and the local telephone exchange of BSO.

Thus, the defaulting UASL fails to maintain the billing records

(including CDRs at each stage). This results in concealment of

details which results in reduced payment of IUC charges by

the defaulting UASL, thus, giving him the unauthorized benefit

of paying less ADC which was the major component of IUC at

the relevant time and which reduces the cost of providing

services which in turn results in destroying the "principle of

level playing" which is so important in the regulatory regime

because pricing of the services in the international market

plays an important role. The above modus operandi enables

the defaulting UASL to sell his product (services) abroad at a

rate which may be less as compared to the rates charged by

BSNL (who is also a Competitor Service Provider). The

unauthorized call(s) gets for the defaulting UASL not only more 63 profits by cost reduction, he also gets more business at the

rates below the competitive rates. Same is the position in case

of masking of international calls as local calls. In this

connection, it is important to note that when an international

call(s) lands on the local POI of the UASL, the latter knows

from the display mechanism at his end (like the subscriber at

his end) that call bears the international CLI and that is the

reason for masking. Otherwise one needs no masking of the

CLI. In both the cases i.e. under clauses 6.4.6(a) and 6.4.6(b)

the same economic and financial consequences flows and that

is the reason why clause 6.4.6 provides for reasonable pre-

estimate of damage. There is one more reason. It is not

possible to trace each such unauthorized call, particularly its

nature, as to from which place it originated and if it was

possible the cost of tracing such call(s) may be much more

than actual damage, if ascertainable, and therefore, a "rough

and ready measure" is provided in clause 6.4.6 which measure

is a reasonable pre-estimate of damage. (iv) Whether clause 6.4.6 represents penalty or pre- estimate of reasonable compensation for the loss? 17. According to Chitty on Contracts "whether a provision is

to be treated as a penalty is a matter of construction to be

resolved by asking whether at the time the contract was

entered into the predominant contractual function of the

provision was to deter a party from breaking the contract or to

compensate the innocent party for breach. The question to be

always asked is whether the alleged penalty clause can pass

muster as a genuine pre-estimate of loss". (See para 26-126 of

Chitty on Contracts, 30th edition) The fact that damage is

difficult to assess with precision strengthens the presumption

that a sum agreed between the parties represents a genuine

attempt to estimate it and to overcome the difficulties of proof

at the trial. According to the Law of Contract by G.H. Treitel

(10th edition), a clause is penal if it provides for "a payment

stipulated as in terrorem of the offending party to force him to

perform the contract. If, on the other hand, the clause is an

attempt to estimate in advance the loss which will result from

the breach, it is a liquidated damages clause. The question 65 whether a clause is penal or pre-estimate of damages depends

on its construction and on the surrounding circumstances at

the time of entering into the contract". Lastly, the fact that a

sum of money is payable on breach of contract is described by

the contract as "penalty" or "liquidated damages" is relevant

but not decisive as to categorization. 18. Applying the above tests to facts of this case, we find that

the Interconnect Agreement in question should be viewed in

the context of the regulatory regime. In this case, we are

concerned with telecom as a service. This is the most

important circumstance to be considered as one of the main

surrounding circumstances to the Interconnect Agreement.

Under the Interconnect Agreement, the UASL is obliged to

maintain the integrity of its exchange/POI. It is important to

note that each service provider, including BSNL, is a market

player/stakeholder. Each UASL is entitled to a level playing

field. The nature of the call, be it local or national or

international, as indicated by corresponding CLI, is the basis

for the levy of IUC (including ADC). If by wrong routing of calls

or by masking the cost of providing services is reduced, the 66 concerned operator gets an undue advantage not only in the

Indian market over other competing operators but also in the

international market. Billing is one of the most vital aspects of

this case. With technology, an international call could fall on

the local POI but then the concerned operator is responsible

for the identity of the call. In the case of calls which are

correctly routed, the display screen with the subscriber clearly

indicates whether the call bears international or local/national

CLI. Similarly, when the Gateway Bypass Scam takes place

and the international call(s) lands on the local POI which is

not forwarded to the specified trunk group/POI, there is not

only bypassing of International Gateway/ POI and National

POI but also evasion of duty to maintain billing records in

detail at each POIs. 19. All this results in payment of IUC at a lower rate. All this

leads to reduced cost for the defaulting UASL which provides

not only increase in its profit but also gives it an advantage in

international market vis-a-vis other competitors (including

BSNL) because the defaulting UASL can easily price its

product in the international market at a lower rate and in that 67 sense loss is caused to BSNL. Similarly, as stated above,

masking takes place as international CLI can easily be

identified even when an international call lands on the local

POI of the UASL, hence, the defaulting UASL resorts to

masking. Hence, an international call coming from the

masked number alone cannot be taken into account. Thus, in

our view, clauses 6.4.6(a) and 6.4.6(b) provide for pre-estimate

of damages. It is so also for one more reason. The clause, as

stated above, restricts the higher IUC rate made applicable for

calls only for last two preceding months and not for last three

years or the longer period. These time lines is an indicia

showing that clause 6.4.6 is not penal but a pre-estimate of

reasonable compensation for the loss foreseen at the time of

entering into the agreement. Lastly, it may be noted that

liquidated damages serve the useful purpose of avoiding

litigation and promoting commercial certainty and, therefore,

the court should not be astute to categorize as penalties the

clauses described as liquidated damages. This principle is

relevant to regulatory regimes. It is important to bear in mind

that while categorizing damages as "penal" or "liquidated 68 damages", one must keep in mind the concept of pricing of

these contracts and the level playing field provided to the

operators because it is on costing and pricing that the loss to

BSNL is measured and, therefore, all calls during the relevant

period have to be seen. [See Communications Law in India by

Vikram Raghavan at page 639]. Since clause 6.4.6 represents

pre-estimate of reasonable compensation, Section 74 of the

Contract Act is not violated. Thus, it is not necessary to

discuss various judgments of this Court under Section 74 of

the Contract Act. Conclusion 20. We need to clarify that in this case our judgment is

restricted only to the interpretation of clause 6.4.6 of the

Interconnect Agreement read with the Addenda. As stated

above, we have held that clause 6.4.6 represents pre-estimate

of reasonable compensation for the loss suffered by BSNL.

Thus, we set aside the impugned judgment and remit the

matter to TDSAT to decide the matter de novo in accordance

with the law laid down hereinabove. However, we need to 69 highlight one aspect. In the letter dated 13th October, 2004

addressed by BSNL to Reliance, it has been alleged that the

calls have landed at the POIs of M/s. Reliance Infocomm. Ltd.

at Karellbaug, Panigate, Alkapuri, Makarpura, Padra, Dabhoi

and Miyagam exchanges in Vadodara SSA. The said letter

highlights one more important aspect. It is alleged that the

number 2813041000 was an unallocated number with

Reliance during the relevant period. This aspect needs to be

examined by TDSAT on facts. 21. Accordingly, the civil appeal is allowed with no order as

to costs. ........................................CJI
 (S. H. Kapadia)

 ...........................................J.
 (K.S. Panicker Radhakrishnan)

 ...........................................J.
 (Swatanter Kumar)
New Delhi; November 29, 2010