BELA M. TRIVEDI, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. The Appellant-accused being aggrieved by the Judgment and Order

 dated 18.07.2023 passed by the High Court of Delhi at New Delhi in

 Bail Application No. 152 of 2023 has preferred the present appeal.

 The High Court vide the impugned order has dismissed the said bail

 application of the appellant seeking bail in connection with the Signature Not Verified Complaint Case No. 20/2021 bearing ECIR /DLZO-1/12/2021 arising Digitally signed by NEETA SAPRA Date: 2023.11.20 16:41:27 IST Reason: out of FIR No. RC0742020E0014, registered for the offence under

 Section 13(2) read with 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1 1988 and under Section 120B read with sections 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 and 471 of IPC. The appellant was arrested on 22.06.2022 on the

 fourth supplementary complaint having been filed by the respondent

 under Sections 44 and 45 of the Prevention of Money Laundering

 Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘ PML Act ’), in continuation of

 the complaint dated 01.09.2021, 11.10.2021 and 18.11.2021 in Case

 No. 20/2021, for the commission of the offence of money laundering

 as defined under Section 3 punishable under Section 4 of PML Act. 3. The broad facts and events as discernible from the record may be

 stated as under: (iv) An FIR being NO. RC0742020E0014 came to be registered on

 31.12.2020 by the CBI, Bank Securities and Fraud Cell, New

 Delhi for the offences under Section 13(2) read with 13(1)(d) of

 the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and under Section 120B

 read with Sections 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 and 471 of IPC, on the

 basis of a written complaint given by the Bank Officials against

 the Directors/Guarantors of SBFL and against the

 Employees/servants and other unknown persons. (v) Since the offences under Section 120B read with Sections 420 , 467 and 471 of IPC and Section 13(2) read with Section

 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act were specified as

 the scheduled offences under the Schedule to the PML Act , an 3 ECIR bearing No. ECIR/DLZO-1/12/2021 came to be recorded

 on 31st January, 2021 against SBFL and others with regard to

 the said FIR registered by the CBI against the accused for

 investigation of the commission of offence under Section 3 punishable under Section 4 of the PML Act. (vi) The appellant was summoned by the respondent-authorities for

 the purposes of investigation and interrogation for about seven

 times till the first complaint was filed by the respondent on

 01.09.2021. Second and third supplementary complaints were

 filed by the respondent on 11.10.2021 and 18.11.2021

 respectively. However, the appellant was not named in the said

 three complaints. (vii) When the appellant was in attendance before the respondent

 pursuant to the call by the investigating authorities on

 22.06.2022, he was arrested and on 18.08.2022 the fourth

 supplementary complaint came to be filed by the respondent

 arraigning the appellant as the Accused No. 10. (viii) The appellant filed a bail application in complaint case

 no.20/2021 before the Special Judge (PC-ACT), Rouse Avenue

 Court Complex, New Delhi on 18.10.2022, which came to be 4 dismissed by the Special Judge vide the order dated

 23.12.2022. (ix) The bail application being No. 152 of 2023 preferred by the

 appellant before the High Court of Delhi also came to be

 rejected vide the impugned order dated 18.07.2023. 4. The allegations against the appellant have been detailed in

 paragraph nos. 7, 7.1,7.2, & 7.11 and the summary thereof is stated

 in para 10 of the fourth Supplementary Complaint filed by the

 respondent. The role of the appellant in the commission of the

 alleged offence of money laundering in terms of Section 3 of PML

 Act reads as under: 5. The learned Senior Counsel Mr. Sidharth Luthra for the appellant

 taking the Court through the documents on record made the

 following submissions: (vii) Lastly, Mr. Luthra submitted that the parameters of bail under Section 45 of the PML Act having been made out, and the

 custodial detention of the appellant being not necessary, the

 appellant should be released on bail. 6. The learned Additional Solicitor General, Mr. S.V. Raju for the

 respondent however, made the following submissions: 7. At the outset, before adverting to the submissions made by the

 learned counsels for the parties, it would be apt to note that the PML

 Act has been enacted to prevent money laundering and to provide

 for confiscation of property derived from, or involved in money

 laundering, and for the matters connected therewith and incidental

 thereto. The said Act was enacted in view of the political declaration

 adopted by the special session of United Nations General Assembly

 in June, 1998 calling upon the member states to adopt national

 money laundering legislation and programme. 9 8. Section 3 of the PML Act which pertains to the offence of money

 laundering, reads as under: - 9. Section 45 of the said Act being relevant for the purpose of the

 instant appeal is reproduced hereunder for ready reference: - Explanation. —For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that the
 expression "Offences to be cognizable and non-bailable" shall
 mean and shall be deemed to have always meant that all offences
 under this Act shall be cognizable offences and non-bailable
 offences notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974), and accordingly the
 officers authorised under this Act are empowered to arrest an
 accused without warrant, subject to the fulfillment of conditions
 under section 19 and subject to the conditions enshrined under
 this section. 10. The constitutional validity of certain provisions of the PML Act and

 the procedure followed by the Enforcement Directorate while

 inquiring into/ investigating offences under the said Act having been 11 challenged before this Court in case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary

 and Others vs. Union of India and Others5 , a three Judge Bench

 had considered the said provisions of the Act in detail. After

 considering the submissions of the learned counsels for the parties

 with regard to the interpretation of Section 3 of the said Act, it was

 held therein as under: - laundering, and for that, existence of proceeds of crime within the
 meaning of Section 2(1)(u) of the Act is quintessential. Absent
 existence of proceeds of crime, as aforesaid, the authorities under
 the 2002 Act cannot step in or initiate any prosecution. 284. In other words, the Authority under the 2002 Act, is to
 prosecute a person for offence of money-laundering only if it has
 reason to believe, which is required to be recorded in writing that
 the person is in possession of “proceeds of crime”. Only if that
 belief is further supported by tangible and credible evidence
 indicative of involvement of the person concerned in any process
 or activity connected with the proceeds of crime, action under the
 Act can be taken forward for attachment and confiscation of
 proceeds of crime and until vesting thereof in the Central
 Government, such process initiated would be a standalone
 process.” 11. As regards the twin conditions for the grant of bail contained in Section 45(1) of the said Act, it has been held in the said decision of Vijay Madanlal (supra) as under: - 13 12. In Gautam Kundu vs. Directorate of Enforcement (Prevention of

 Money-Laundering Act), Government of India Through Manoj

 Kumar, Assistant Director, Eastern Region6 , it was observed as

 under: - 13. Keeping in view of the aforestated legal position let us consider the

 submissions made by the learned counsels for the parties. It is trite

 that the court while considering an application seeking bail, is not

 required to weigh the evidence collected by the investigating agency

 meticulously, nonetheless, the court should keep in mind the nature

 of accusation, the nature of evidence collected in support thereof,

 the severity of the punishment prescribed for the alleged offences,

 the character of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar to

 the accused, reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the

 accused at the trial, reasonable apprehension of the witness being

 tampered with, the larger interests of the public/State etc. Though,

 the findings recorded by the Court while granting or refusing bail

 would be tentative in nature, nonetheless the Court is expected to

 express prima facie opinion for granting or refusing to grant bail

 which would demonstrate an application of mind, particularly dealing

 with the economic offences. 14. The first and foremost contention raised by learned Senior Counsel

 Mr. Luthra would be that the appellant was not named in the FIR nor

 in first three prosecution/ supplementary complaints and has been

 implicated only on the basis of the statements of witnesses recorded 15 pursuant to the summons issued under Section 50 of the PML Act,

 without there being any material in support thereof. 15. In our opinion, there is hardly any merit in the said submission of

 Mr. Luthra. In Rohit Tandon vs. Directorate of Enforcement7 , a

 three Judge Bench has categorically observed that the statements

 of witnesses/ accused are admissible in evidence in view of Section

 50 of the said Act and such statements may make out a formidable

 case about the involvement of the accused in the commission of a

 serious offence of money laundering. Further, as held in Vijay

 Madanlal (supra), the offence of money laundering under Section 3 of the Act is an independent offence regarding the process or activity

 connected with the proceeds of crime which had been derived or

 obtained as a result of criminal activity relating to or in relation to a

 scheduled offence. The offence of money laundering is not

 dependent or linked to the date on which the scheduled offence or

 predicate offence has been committed. The relevant date is the date

 on which the person indulges in the process or activity connected

 with the proceeds of crime. Thus, the involvement of the person in

 any of the criminal activities like concealment, possession,

7(2018) 11 SCC 46 16 acquisition, use of proceeds of crime as much as projecting it as

 untainted property or claiming it to be so, would constitute the

 offence of money laundering under Section 3 of the Act. 16. So far as facts of the present case are concerned, as transpiring

 from the supplementary complaint filed against the appellant, apart

 from the statements of witnesses recorded under Section 50 of the

 said Act, there has been sufficient material collected in the form of

 documents which prima facie show as to how the appellant was

 knowingly a party and actually involved in the process and in the

 activities connected with the proceeds of crime, and how he was

 projecting/ claiming such proceeds of crime as untainted and how he

 was the beneficiary of the proceeds of crime acquired through the

 criminal activities relating to the scheduled offences . 17. As well settled by now, the conditions specified under Section 45 are mandatory. They need to be complied with. The Court is

 required to be satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for

 believing that the accused is not guilty of such offence and he is not

 likely to commit any offence while on bail. It is needless to say that

 as per the statutory presumption permitted under Section 24 of the

 Act, the Court or the Authority is entitled to presume unless the 17 contrary is proved, that in any proceedings relating to proceeds of

 crime under the Act, in the case of a person charged with the

 offence of money laundering under Section 3 , such proceeds of

 crime are involved in money laundering. Such conditions

 enumerated in Section 45 of PML Act will have to be complied with

 even in respect of an application for bail made under Section 439 Cr.P.C. in view of the overriding effect given to the PML Act over the

 other law for the time being in force, under Section 71 of the PML

 Act. 18. The submission of learned Counsel Mr. Luthra to grant bail to the

 appellant on the ground that the other co-accused who were

 similarly situated as the appellant, have been granted bail, also

 cannot be accepted. It may be noted that parity is not the law. While

 applying the principle of parity, the Court is required to focus upon

 the role attached to the accused whose application is under

 consideration. It is not disputed in that the main accused Sh. Kewal

 Krishan Kumar, Managing Director of SBFL, and KMP of group

 companies and the other accused Devki Nandan Garg, owner/

 operator/ controller of various shell companies were granted bail on

 the ground of infirmity and medical grounds. The co-accused Raman 18 Bhuraria, who was the internal auditor of SBFL has been granted

 bail by the High Court, however the said order of High Court has

 been challenged by the respondent before this Court by filing being

 SLP (Crl.) No. 9047 of 2023 and the same is pending under

 consideration. In the instant case, the High Court in the impugned

 order while repelling the said submission made on behalf of the

 appellant, had distinguished the case of Raman Bhuraria and had

 observed that unlike Raman Bhuraria who was an internal auditor of

 SBFL (for a brief period statutory auditor of SBFL), the applicant was

 the Vice President of Purchases and as a Vice President, he was

 responsible for the day-to-day operations of the company. It was

 also observed that the appellant’s role was made out from the

 financials, where direct loan funds have been siphoned off to the

 sister concerns of SBFL, where the appellant was either a

 shareholder or director. In any case, the order granting bail to

 Raman Bhuraria being under consideration before the coordinate

 bench of this Court, it would not be appropriate for us to make any

 observation with regard to the said order passed by the High Court. 19. It is axiomatic that the principle of parity is based on the guarantee

 of positive equality before law enshrined in Article 14 of the 19 Constitution. However, if any illegality or irregularity has been

 committed in favour of any individual or a group of individuals, or a

 wrong order has been passed by a judicial forum, others cannot

 invoke the jurisdiction of the higher or superior court for repeating or

 multiplying the same irregularity or illegality or for passing similar

 wrong order. Article 14 is not meant to perpetuate the illegality or

 irregularity. If there has been a benefit or advantage conferred on

 one or a set of people by any authority or by the court, without legal

 basis or justification, other persons could not claim as a matter of

 right the benefit on the basis of such wrong decision. 20. It is also difficult to countenance the submission of learned Counsel

 Mr. Luthra that the investigation qua the appellant is complete and

 the trial of the cases likely to take long time. According to him the

 appellant ought not to be incarcerated indefinitely merely because

 the investigation is kept open with regard to the other accused. In

 this regard, it may be noted that the appellant has not been able to

 overcome the threshold stipulations contemplated in Section 45 namely he has failed to prima facie prove that he is not guilty of the

 alleged offence and is not likely to commit any offence while on bail.

 It cannot be gainsaid that the burden of proof lies on the accused for 20 the purpose of the condition set out in the Section 45 that he is not

 guilty of such offence. Of course, such discharge of burden could

 be on the probabilities, nonetheless in the instant case there being

 sufficient material on record adduced by the respondent showing the

 thick involvement of the appellant in the alleged offence of money

 laundering under Section 3 of the said Act, the Court is not inclined

 to grant bail to the appellant. 21. The apprehension of the learned counsel for the appellant that the

 trial is likely to take long time and the appellant would be

 incarcerated for indefinite period, is also not well founded in view of

 the observations made by this Court in case of Vijay Madanlal (supra). On the application of Section 436A of the Code of Criminal

 Procedure, 1973, it has been categorically held therein that: - 22. Lastly, it may be noted that as held in catena of decisions, the

 economic offences constitute a class apart and need to be visited

 with a different approach in the matter of bail. The economic

 offences having deep-rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss

 of public funds need to be viewed seriously and considered as

 grave offences affecting the economy of the country as a whole

 and thereby posing serious threat to the financial health of the

 country. Undoubtedly, economic offences have serious

 repercussions on the development of the country as a whole. To

 cite a few judgments in this regard are Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy

 vs. Central Bureau of Investigation8 , Nimmagadda Prasad vs.

 Central Bureau of Investigation9 , Gautam Kundu vs.

 Directorate of Enforcement ( supra), State of Bihar and Another

 vs. Amit Kumar alias Bachcha Rai10. This court taking a serious

 note with regard to the economic offences had observed as back

8 (2013) 7 SCC 439
9 (2013) 7 SCC 466
10 (2017) 13 SCC 751 22 as in 1987 in case of State of Gujarat vs. Mohanlal Jitamalji

 Porwal and Another11 as under:- 11 (1987) 2 SCC 364 23 a reasonable time, further ensuring the right of speedy trial

 guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution. 24. With the afore-stated observations, the appeal is dismissed. …………………………. J. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE]

 …………………………. J. [BELA M. TRIVEDI]

NEW DELHI; NOVEMBER 20th, 2023 24