from the post of Superintendent, Beggars Home,

 Patna. She was made in-charge of Remand Home, Patna, along

 with Superintendent, Beggars Home, Patna. During inspection,

 it was found found that the Remand Home was in very bad and

 dilapidated condition, as she was not authorized to make repair

 and incur the expenditure, on that account she started writing

 letters for repairing of Chapakal, electricity etc. in the Remand

 Home. Some boys had fled away from the Remand Home and

 the cumulative effect led to putting the original writ petitioner

 under suspension vide order dated 25.08.1993, inasmuch as the

 original writ petitioner was put to departmental proceeding, the

 headquarter was fixed at Chotanagpur at Ranchi. The original

 writ petitioner challenged the order of suspension in C.W.J.C.

 No.10657 of 1993, the same was disposed of vide order dated

 24.01.1994, without interference but, with a direction that the

 departmental proceeding be concluded within a period of three

 months from the date of receipt of the copy of the order and if
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 5/100 the departmental proceeding is not concluded within the

 aforesaid period, the order of suspension passed against the

 petitioner would stand revoked. It was further directed that the

 petitioner shall render all cooperation in the smooth conduct of

 the departmental proceeding, failing which the same may be

 heard and disposed of ex parte. As the departmental proceeding

 could not be concluded in terms of the order passed in the writ

 petition, the suspension order ought to have been revoked,

 ultimately, on filing of contempt petition vide M.J.C. No.877 of

 1994, the order of suspension was revoked vide order dated

 01.05.1994, but the departmental proceeding continued,

 ultimately the original writ petitioner superannuated from the

 service on 30.11.1994, at the final stage of the departmental

 proceeding. After superannuation, vide memo no.23 dated

 03.01.1995 the petitioner was visited with the punishment of

 censure. The order of punishment was challenged by the

 original writ petitioner in C.W.J.C. No.5982 of 1995, which was

 allowed in the background of the fact that the respondents, after

 superannuation of the original petitioner, did not convert the

 proceeding under Section 43(b) of the Bihar Pension Rules. The

 Director, Social Welfare, Government of Bihar, Patna, vide

 letter no.488 dated 07.03.1995 issued show-cause in terms of
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 6/100 Rule 97 read with Sub-Rule 3 and 5 of the Bihar Service Code

 with respect to her entitlement of salary for the period of

 suspension i.e. from 25th August, 1993 to 30th April, 1994. In the

 said letter, it has been mentioned that out of seven charges four

 charges namely, charge nos. 1, 5, 6 and 7 were proved and the

 Government had concurred with the finding of the Inquiry

 Officer and ultimately he was served the punishment of censure

 vide memo no.23 dated 03.01.1995. 5. The original writ petitioner filed her show-cause, in

 which she has taken a plea that she had retired from the service

 on 30.11.1994 and as such, any order passed after the date of

 superannuation in relation to departmental proceeding which did

 not conclude during the period of service, has been held to be

 bad in law. If the order of punishment is illegal, the provisions

 of Rule 97 (3) and (5) of the Bihar Service Code cannot be

 exercised after her superannuation. As the order of punishment

 has been set aside, she has claimed the entire salary for the

 period of suspension i.e. from 25th August, 1993 to 30th April,

 1994 and finally the order dated 30.06.1995 has been passed,

 whereby the petitioner has been made entitled to subsistence

 allowance only for the period from 25.08.1993 to 30.04.1994,

 which is under consideration in the present case. The Director,
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 7/100 Social Welfare, Bihar, Patna, has communicated that the period

 of suspension will not be treated to be break in service and will

 be taken into consideration for the purposes of pension, gratuity

 and leave encashment. The said order was challenged in

 C.W.J.C. No.2727 of 1995. The question of applicability of

 Rule-97 of the Bihar Service Code came for consideration

 before the learned Single Judge, where the plea was taken that

 after superannuation, Rule-97 of the Bihar Service Code will not

 come into play for the purposes of deprivation of salary for the

 period of suspension. The learned Single Judge considered the

 provisions of Rule 97 of the Bihar Service Code and

 accordingly, question was framed for consideration, whether

 after superannuation of a Government servant any order denying

 the salary for the suspension period is legal and proper. The

 learned Single Judge has held in the following terms:- "There is

 no doubt that the provision is applicable only when the

 Government Servant is to be reinstated in service, but when the

 Government servant has already superannuated, there is no

 question of his reinstatement and, therefore, the provisions, in

 terms, is not applicable. However, that does not mean that on

 his superannuation from service, the Government servant under

 suspension on the date of superannuation, will ipso facto
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 8/100 become entitled to full salary and allowances for the suspension

 period" and ultimately the learned Single Judge has recorded a

 finding in the following manner:- "In my opinion, in such a

 situation, it would be permissible to the competent authority to

 consider whether the person should be paid salary and

 allowances for the suspension period after, of course, giving

 opportunity of hearing to him. There cannot be any doubt that

 any order denying salary and allowances for the suspension

 period is not a penalty within the meaning of the Service Rules

 but, nevertheless, is penal in nature and effect and, therefore,

 cannot be passed except after giving opportunity of hearing.

 While in the case of Government servant in service, the order is

 to be passed under Rule-97 of the Service Code, after his

 superannuation, it will be deemed to be an independent order

 and not under Rule-97 but the consideration will more or less

 be the same". The learned Single Judge further held that "the

 State Government is competent to deny salary for the

 suspension period on valid grounds even after superannuation

 after giving opportunity of hearing". The Court has placed

 reliance on the decision rendered in the case of Dr. Lakshmi

 Narain Singh vs. The State of Bihar (1989 BBCJ, 147) and

 ultimately dismissed the writ petition. Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 9/100 6. The order of the learned Single Judge was

 challenged before the Division Bench having stated that as no

 punishment order was inflicted upon the petitioner during the

 service period nor the proceeding was converted under Section

 43(b) of the Bihar Pension Rules, the competent authority is not

 authorized to initiate a proceeding under Rule 97 of the Bihar

 Service Code and deprive her of salary for the period under

 suspension. 7. Mr. Mrigank Mauli, on request of this Court, has

 assisted this Court as Amicus Curaie, has taken plea that after

 superannuation, the relationship of master and servant ceases to

 exist and there is no such provision in the Bihar Service Code or

 under the Bihar Pension Rules, which would authorize the

 competent authority to exercise the power of Rule-97 of the

 Bihar Service Code. He further submits that Rule 97 of the

 Bihar Service Code will be applicable during the subsistence of

 relationship of master and servant, once the relationship is over,

 any of the provision of Rule-97 cannot be pressed into service to

 deprive a retired Government servant of the benefit of salary for

 the period under suspension on any ground whatsoever. It has

 further been submitted that identical or similar provision in the

 shape of Rule-54 of the Fundamental Rules applicable to the
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 10/100 Central Government employees was existing, but later on,

 feeling difficulty in dealing with the matter of Government

 servant, retired from the service before conclusion of the

 inquiry, initiation of proceeding for the purposes of entitlement

 of salary for the suspension period, amendment has been made

 in Rule-54 of the Fundamental Rules and accordingly, the

 provisions of Rule-54(A) and (B) especially for dealing the case

 of retired Government servant has been added. The original

 Rule-54 was replaced by new Rule-54 in a different structure

 and formulation supported by Rule-54 (A) and (B). The other

 Indian States, in tune with the amendment made in the

 Fundamental Rules governing the employees of the Central

 Government, have also amended their Service Rules, inserting

 identical provision as that of Rule-54(B) in their respective

 Service Rules. 8. Mr. Mrigank Mauli, has drawn the attention of this

 Court to the Punjab Civil Services Rules, Volume-1, more

 particular Rule-7.3. B; Rule-54(B) of the Fundamental Rules of

 Madhya Pradesh; Rule 54(B) of the Fundamental and

 Subsidiary Rules of Assam and Rule-54(B) of the Fundamental

 Rules of Andhra Pradesh and submitted that these amendments

 have been brought with the line of the amendment made in the
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 11/100 Fundamental Rules of the Central Government. He further

 submitted that the State of Bihar has not amended its Service

 Code in the identical term as that of Rule-54(A) and (B), which

 have been included in the Fundamental Rules of the Central

 Government and submitted that in view of the amendment

 effected in the respective Services Rules the competent

 authority of the respective States do have an authority to initiate

 or continue the proceeding against retired Government servant

 for consideration of entitlement of the salary for the period of

 suspension but, such power cannot be exercised by the authority

 of the State of Bihar and that too when the State Government

 does not have an inherent jurisdiction in absence of any specific

 provision in the Service Rules empowering to undertake such

 exercise. 9. He has dealt with the judgment of Dr. Laxmi

 Narain Singh (supra) having stated that the said case was heard

 by the Division Bench, comprising of members namely, Hon'ble

 Mr. Justice H.L. Agrawal (as he then was) and Hon'ble Mr.

 Justice M.P. Verma (as he then was) and it has been held that

 after superannuation from the service, the Government has no

 jurisdiction to continue with the departmental proceeding

 against a retired employee, but the difference of opinion has
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 12/100 emerged on the question as to whether in that circumstances, the

 Government servant is entitled to claim full salary for the period

 of suspension. Hon'ble Mr. Justice H.L. Agrawal took the view

 that as a general rule, a Government servant cannot be held to

 be entitled for full pay, in every case a disciplinary proceeding

 ultimately ends without imposing the punishment on him.

 Referring to certain circumstances, briefly, ultimately, his

 Lordship held that the petitioner was not entitled to any relief on

 this account. Hon'ble Mr. Justice M.P. Verma has held that

 discretion to refuse payment of full salary to the Government

 servant can be exercised only in a case, which is governed by

 Rule 97(3) of the Bihar Service Code, since the present case

 cannot be held to be governed by the said Rule, the claim of the

 petitioner for full salary cannot be legitimately refused. In view

 of difference of opinion, the matter was referred to another

 Single Judge, namely, Hon'ble Mr. Justice L.M. Sharma (as he

 then was), and finally the judgment was passed by Hon'ble Mr.

 Justice L.M. Sharma. 10. Mr. Mauli, has submitted that in that case also

 learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that before

 conclusion of departmental proceeding Dr. Lakshmi Narain

 Singh, petitioner, superannuated from the service, whereafter a
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 13/100 fresh proceeding was initiated, but the same also could not be

 concluded before his retirement and ultimately the order of

 suspension was withdrawn. In that case Dr. Lakshmi Narain

 Singh had claimed the salary for the entire period and the

 competent authority had held that he would not be entitled to

 any additional payment beyond the subsistence allowance,

 which he had already drawn and the period he was under 11. In support of the submission, Mr. Mauli, has placed

 reliance on the following judgments:- 12. He has also placed reliance on two judgments of

 Delhi High Court rendered in the case of Union of India and

 Ors. vs. Raj Bahadur reported in 2016 SCC Online Del. 4460

 and in the case of Union of India and Anr. vs. S.K. Gupta decide in W.P. (C) no.11860 of 2015 to show that as there is a

 provision of Rule 54(B) under the Fundamental Rules and the

 Delhi High Court has held that the authority is competent to

 take decision with respect to payment of salary for the period of

 suspension of those Government servant who has superannuated

 from the service. 13. He has also relied on the judgment of Delhi High

 Court rendered in the case of Raj Bahadur (supra) and

 submitted that as there was a provision in Rule-69 read with

 Rule-54(B) the power of the competent authority has been

 recognized to take decision with respect to the period under

 suspension. It will be relevant to quote paragraph no.16 of the
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 16/100 said judgment, which is as follows:- 14. Mr. Mauli, learned advocate, has also placed
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 17/100 reliance on three judgments of Calcutta High Court, namely:- Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 18/100 ( iii) Secretary of State v. Surendra Nath

 Goswami reported in AIR 1938 Calcutta

 759, on the proposition that there is no

 implied power with the employer to punish a

 Government servant by suspension, if the

 Government servant is suspended when there

 is no power to suspend, he can sue for

 damages for being not allowed to work, if he

 was ready to work. If, however, there is

 power to suspend, the effect of the

 suspension is to suspend the contract of

 service as a whole, with the result that

 Government servant cannot insist on

 working or claim his pay for the period of

 suspension. 15. He has also placed reliance on the decision of the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court rendered in the case of Bhagirathi

 Jena vs. Board of Directors, O.S.F.C. and Ors. reported in

 (1999) 3 SCC 666 on the proposition that once the delinquent

 employee retires from the service there was no authority vested

 with the Corporation in continuing the departmental inquiry

 even for the purposes of effecting recovery from the retiral
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 19/100 benefits payable to the delinquent employee. So, the proposition

 is that unless power has been conferred under the Rule, no

 adverse order or penalty order in any term can be imposed on

 the Government servant. 16. Further reliance has been placed on the decision

 rendered in the case of Sharda Singh vs. State of Uttar Pradesh

 and Ors. reported in (2009) 11 SCC 683, wherein the Court has

 framed the question as to whether the Government servant is

 entitled for full back wages/ salary during the period of

 suspension till the date of passing the order of reinstatement into

 service, when he was exonerated of the charges framed against

 him by the disciplinary authority. The Court has held that when

 the Government servant has been exonerated of the charges, he

 cannot be deprived of any portion of his pay for the period of

 suspension. Further held that rule or regulation which may

 provide that during the period of suspension an employee would

 be entitled only for subsistence allowance, dehors the ultimate

 result of the inquiry proceedings. This grey area, either should

 have been determined by the Court or the authorities should

 have been asked to determine the claim with reference to the

 prevailing rules/regulations. Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 20/100 17. Lastly he has placed reliance on the decision

 rendered in the case of Balvantray Ratilal Patel vs. State of

 Maharashtra reported (1968) 2 SCR 577 = A.I.R. 1968 S.C.

 800, on the proposition that general principle is that an

 employer can suspend an employee pending an inquiry into his

 misconduct and the only question that can arise in such

 suspension will relate to payment during the period of such

 suspension. If there is no express term relating to payment

 during such suspension or if there is no statutory provision in

 any enactment or rule, the employee is entitled to his full

 remuneration for the period of his interim suspension. On the

 other hand, if there is a term in this respect in the contract of

 employment or if there is a provision in the statute or the rules

 framed thereunder, providing for the scale of payment during

 suspension, the payment will be made in accordance therewith. 18. The judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court,

 rendered in the case of Balvantray Ratilal Patel (supra) is being

 referred to and paragraph no.4 thereof case is reproduced

 hereinbelow:- 19. Mr. Mrigank Mauli, has submitted that no power

 has been given by the Legislature to deal with the situation of

 period of suspension after the superannuation from the service

 as at the earlier stage identical Rule 54 of the Fundamental

 Rules was there, but Rule-54 has been amended with a view to

 deal with the different situations including the situation after

 retirement of Government servant from the service and he has

 placed reliance on Rule-54 of the Fundamental Rules to show

 that earlier Rule-54 was pari materia to Rule-97. It will be
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 23/100 relevant to quote earlier Rule-54 of the Fundamental Rules. Provided that if the Government servant so
 desired, such authority may direct that the
 period of absence from duty shall be converted
 into leave of any kind due and admissible to the
 Government servant." 20. He also placed reliance on Rule 54 (B) of the

 Fundamental Rules to show that the Central Government and

 correspondingly the State Governments have amended the rules

 in terms of Rule 54(B) of the Fundamental Rules. He also

 placed reliance on Rule-54(B) (1) that deals with the only issue

 as to in what manner the period of suspension will be treated, as

 has been submitted that in the event the Government servant is

 suspended, is reinstated or would have been so reinstated but for

 his retirement while under suspension, the competent authority

 to order reinstatement shall consider and make specific order
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 25/100 with regard to pay and allowances for the period of suspension

 ending with reinstatement or in the event, the proceeding could

 not be completed on account of superannuation. 21. He further submits that this type of provision is not

 there either in the Bihar Service Code or anywhere by way of

 Statutory provision dealing with the right and entitlement of

 salary for the suspension period for retired Government servant.

 In absence of the same, the power cannot be exercised to decide

 the entitlement of salary or allowance for the period of

 suspension or in what manner the period will be treated for the

 purposes of future entitlement. 22. The same view has been reiterated in the case of S.K. Gupta (supra). 23. He further submitted that after superannuation, the

 jural relationship of master and servant does not exist. Further

 submitted that unless there is a specific provision, to deal with

 the period prior to retirement, the competent authority cannot

 have jurisdiction to take away the entitlement of the entire

 salary pertaining to the period of suspension. He next submitted

 that in absence of such power the delinquent employee will be

 entitled to full salary and the entire period of suspension will be
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 26/100 treated to be in service and he will be entitled to the retiral

 benefits in terms of the Bihar Pension Rules, further submitted

 that the authority cannot claim the implied power to exercise the

 jurisdiction and pass an order in absence of specific provision

 and for that he has placed reliance on the judgment of Calcutta

 High Court in the case of Bijoy Gopal Sur (supra). It will be

 relevant to quote paragraph no.16 of the said judgment , which

 reads as under:- 24. It has further been submitted that the power of

 suspension can be exercised by the competent authority against

 the Government servant, but in absence of any specific

 provision specifically dealing with the provision of grant of

 power of withholding the salary for the suspension period, the

 delinquent employee will be entitled to salary for the period of

 suspension. 25. Per contra, learned counsel for the State has

 submitted that in view of the judgment of Dr. Lakshhmi Narain

 Singh (supra) it can safely be argued that power conferred under

 Rule 97 of the Bihar Service Code can be exercised by the

 Government even after the superannuation of delinquent

 Government servant, further supplemented his argument placing

 reliance on the judgment of Jharkhand High Court rendered in

 the case of Anant Pandey and Ors. vs. State of Jharkhand and

 Ors. reported in 2003 (3) JCR 776 Jhr. and on the strength of

 both the arguments, it has been argued that the Government has

 not only power to exercise the power under Rule-97 of the Bihar

 Service Code during the subsistence of service, but even after

 the cessation of service, or on his superannuation, the principle

 mentioned in Rule-97 will equally applicable in the matter of a
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 28/100 retired Government employee and further submitted that the

 delinquent Government servant will be entitled to full salary in

 the event if he has been exonerated or the order of suspension is

 unjustified as has been mentioned in Rule 97(2) of the Bihar

 Service Code. 26. Before giving the answer to the questions which

 have been framed hereinabove, the earlier judgments which

 have been passed in connection with Rule 97 of the Bihar

 Service Code by this Court and the Jharkhand High Court are to

 be taken into consideration. In this connection, it will be

 appropriate to consider the decision rendered in the case of Dr.

 Lakshmi Narain Singh (supra) as the facts of the aforesaid case

 is by and large near to the facts of the present case and for that it

 will be necessary to advert to the necessary facts of the said

 case. Dr. Lakshmi Narain Singh superannuated from the service

 on 31.03.1979 as Civil Assistant Surgeon. Before his retirement,

 a departmental proceeding was initiated against him and he was

 put under suspension, was allowed the subsistence allowance in

 terms of Rule-96 of the Bihar Service Code. Dr. Lakshmi Narain

 Singh had filed the show-cause and thereafter he was served

 with another show-cause in reference to second proceeding for

 the same charges. On receipt of the inquiry report, the
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 29/100 Government has found Dr. Lakshmi Narain Singh to be guilty

 and imposed the punishment of "censure, stoppage of three

 increments, his absence from the duty for about a year and 10

 months to be treated as break in service with consequential

 financial loss and adverse entries in the service book" upon him.

 Thereafter, another notice was served on him mentioning,

 besides the earlier allegations, and asking him to show-cause as

 to why he should not be discharged from the service, the same

 was replied by Dr. Lakshmi Narain Singh. Few further queries

 were made from Dr. Lakshi Narain Singh, thus the matter

 remained in correspondence for considerable period, no final

 order was passed. Later on, a fresh notice starting a separate

 departmental proceeding was issued, but this proceeding also

 remained in a dormant state. Dr. Lakshmi Narain Singh was to

 superannuate from the service by the end of March, 1979 and in

 February, 1979 probably realizing that fresh proceeding which

 had been initiated could not be concluded before his retirement,

 his order of suspension was withdrawn, accordingly, he was

 communicated the decision regarding payment of salary for the

 period of suspension would be taken up at a later stage after

 factual examination of the case. The petitioner, thus, joined on

 27.03.1979 and retired after three days, leading to him claiming
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 30/100 full salary for the period of his suspension. On failure to make

 payment, he approached this Court at the first instance, which

 was remanded back for consideration by the appropriate

 authority. On the representation, final decision was taken

 holding that he was found guilty of disobedience and therefore,

 decision was taken to reimpose the punishment which was

 earlier inflicted upon him. It was further communicated that he

 will not be entitled to any additional payment beyond the

 subsistence allowance which he had already drawn, and for the

 period he was under suspension, will be treated to have been in

 continuous service only for the purpose of pension. On conflict

 of view, on the issue of payment of full salary for the period of

 suspension, the matter was referred to the Single Judge and the

 learned Single Judge after analyzing the provisions of Rule 97

 of the Bihar Service Code in extenso has held that Sub-Rule 2

 and 3 of Rule-97 is divided in two categories; first where the

 competent authority is of the opinion that the Government

 servant has been fully exonerated or in the case the suspension,

 it was wholly unjustified depriving full payment, and second

 category covers all other cases. In the first case, the Government

 servant is entitled to full pay and allowance, while in the

 second, the competent authority would take decision as to the
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 31/100 entitlement of quantum of payment of salary and allowance for

 the period of suspension. While taking decision in the matter

 falling under the category of Sub-Rule 3 of Rule-97, the

 competent authority would consider the facts and circumstances

 of the case. Rule-97(4) makes it very clear that in a case falling

 under Clause-2 the period of absence of duty will be treated as a

 period spent on duty for all purposes, but it is not the same as

 Sub-rule 5 of Rule-97 stipulates that those cases falling under

 Clause-3 the period of absence from the duty shall not be treated

 as a period spent on duty unless the competent authority so

 specifically directs that it shall be so treated for any specified

 purpose. In this connection, it will be relevant to quote

 paragraph no.5 of the said judgment , which reads as under:- Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 34/100 27. This Court would also like to consider the

 judgment of Jharkhand High Court rendered in the case of Anant Pandey (Supra) where also the question arose what will

 be the true construction and interpretation of Rule-97 of the

 Bihar Service Code. In that case the petitioner, namely, Anant

 Pandey being an accused of Fooder Scam was suspended, an

 F.I.R. was also lodged against him. While under suspension, he

 superannuated from the service on reaching the age of

 superannuation. The question which arose for consideration

 before the Jharkhand High Court is as follows:- Second part of the question is not very much

 relevant for consideration in the present case. The Jharkhand High Court has considered the

 judgment of Dr. Lakshmi Narain Singh (supra) as well as the
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 35/100 order passed by the Single Judge in the case of Smt. Vidya

 Sinha (present case) and ultimately in paragraph no.17, the

 question was answered in the following term:- So, the Jharkhand High Court is of the view that as

 because a proceeding could not be converted during the service

 period ipso facto the employee will not be entitled to full salary,

 will be subject to outcome of the proceeding converted under

 Rule 43(b) of the Bihar Pension Rules. Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 36/100 28. Before dealing with the issue, it will be relevant to

 examine the provisions of Rule-97 of the Bihar Service Code,

 which are as follows:- Provided that the payment of allowance under
 Clause (2) or Clause (3) shall be subject to all
 other conditions under which such allowance
 are admissible. Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 37/100 (4) In a case falling under Clause (2) the period
 of absence from duty shall be treated as a
 period spent on duty for all purposes. (5) In a case falling under Clause the period of
 absence from duty shall not be treated as a
 period spent on duty, unless such competent
 authority specifically directs that it shall be so
 treated for any specified purpose; Provided that if the Government servant so
 desires such authority may direct that the period
 of absence from duty shall be converted into
 leave of any kind due and admissible to the
 Government servant." 29. At the same time, the provisions of Rule 43(b) (c)

 and Rule-99 and 100 of the Bihar Pension Rules, are also

 relevant to examine. Let us now quote Rule-43(b) and (c), 99

 and 100 of the Bihar Pension Rules:- employment, shall have been instituted in
 accordance with Sub-clause (ii) of
 Clause (a); and (c) the Bihar Public Service Commission,
 shall be consulted before final orders are
 passed. Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 39/100 43(c) Where the departmental proceeding or
 judicial proceeding, in which the prosecution
 has been sanctioned against such servant,
 initiated during the service period of the
 government servant, is not concluded till the
 retirement of the government servant, the
 amount of provisional pension shall be less than
 the maximum admissible amount of pension but
 shall in no case be less than 90% (ninety
 percent). 99. Time passed under suspension pending
 enquiry into conduct counts, if the suspension is
 immediately followed by reinstatement, but time
 passed under suspension adjudged as specific
 penalty does not count. 100. If a Government servant, who has been
 suspended, pending enquiry into his conduct, is
 reinstated, but with forfeiture or any part of his
 allowances for the period of suspension, this
 period does not count (save with the special
 sanction of the Head of the Department), unless
 the authority who reinstates the Government
 servant expressly declares at the time that it
 shall count." 30. Rule-97 (1) is a general provision in the sense that

 it comprehends the situation when the Government servant is

 dismissed, removed or suspended, reinstated, the authority

 competent shall pass the order of reinstatement and make

 specific order regarding payment of salary and allowances as
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 40/100 well as the period of suspension shall be treated to be spent on

 duty or not. In Rule-97, three contingencies have been

 stipulated; one is dismissal, second is removal and third is

 suspension, in the event of reinstatement the question of

 payment of subsistence allowance will be taken into

 consideration by the authority. Let us examine the situation, the

 Government servant has been suspended during the proceeding,

 later on, the suspension order was revoked, finally either the

 competent authority dropped the proceeding or the proceeding

 terminated on account of superannuation. Rule- 97 (2) deals

 with the situation when the Government servant is fully

 exonerated in the departmental proceeding or in case of

 suspension, which was found wholly unjustified, in such

 circumstance, straightway it has been held that he will be

 entitled to full pay and allowances to which he would have been

 entitled has he not been dismissed, removed or suspended, as

 the case may be, but in the event that person is not fully

 exonerated or suspension was not found to be unjustified, in

 such circumstances, the competent authority will decide what

 portion of pay and allowances will be paid to him. Clause- 4

 stipulates that the case which is falling under Clause-2 of Rule-

 97, the period of absence from the duty shall be treated to be the
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 41/100 period spent on duty for all purposes, but the case which falls

 under Rule 97(5) the period of absence from the duty shall not

 be treated to be the period spent on duty, unless such competent

 authority specifically directs that it shall be so treated in such

 particular manner and purpose. This Clause plays a very

 important role in the matter of deciding the entitlement of entire

 salary for suspension period as well as in what manner the

 period under suspension will be treated in the matter of

 entitlement of Government servant in relation to break in

 service, which may ultimately effect entitlement of pensionary

 benefit and incidental reliefs. 31. Rule-43(b) of the Bihar Pension Rules stipulates

 that in the event of a departmental proceeding or judicial

 proceeding, the person is found guilty of grave misconduct or is

 found to have caused pecuniary loss to the Government by

 misconduct or negligence, in that event the disciplinary

 authority will have a jurisdiction to take decision with regard to

 entitlement of benefit arising from Bihar Pension Rules and

 Rule-43(c) which has recently been inserted specially stipulates

 that during the period of a departmental proceeding or a

 criminal proceeding the Government servant will be entitled to

 90% provisional pension. So, Rule-43(b) empowers the
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 42/100 competent authority to convert the departmental proceeding

 which was initiated before superannuation into a proceeding

 under Rule- 43(b) of the Bihar Pension Rules, as also it

 envisages continuation of departmental proceeding for the

 purposes of proving of the charges against the Government

 servant. 32. Rule-99 and 100 of the Bihar Pension Rules

 provides, time spent under suspension pending inquiry will be

 taken into account, if the suspension is immediately followed by

 reinstatement, but time spent under suspension has been held to

 be penalty, would not be counted. In a situation when the

 Government servant is suspended, pending inquiry into his

 conduct, is reinstated, but with forfeiture of any part of his

 allowances for the period of suspension, this period would not

 be counted, save and except with the special sanction of the

 head of the department, and unless the authority who reinstates

 the Government servant expressly declares, the suspension

 period shall be counted. So, Rule-99 and Rule-100 are dealing

 with the situation which has been mentioned in Rule-97(2) and

 (3) as well as Rule-100 specially empowers the competent

 authority even after retirement, he will have a jurisdiction to

 decide the entitlement of benefit for the period under suspension
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 43/100 pending departmental inquiry. Rule-99 and 100 of the Bihar

 Pension rules, itself recognizes the power of the disciplinary

 authority to take a decision with respect to the period the person

 has been put under suspension. It can be considered from a

 different angle, just for example, if a person has been dismissed

 from the service on the last date of his retirement and the

 competent authority has taken a decision that he will not be

 entitled to any benefit for the period under suspension in terms

 of the allowances as well as treated the period of suspension as

 break in service. On appeal, the appellate authority sets aside the

 order on technical ground, i.e. while holding the inquiry it was

 found that fairness of inquiry has not been maintained, the

 principles of natural justice have been violated, in that event, if

 the power of the competent authority is not recognized, it will

 lead to travesty of justice and would cause very serious

 consequences in the manner that the competent authority will be

 bereft of power to consider in what manner the period of

 suspension will be treated either in terms of the salary or in

 terms of his continuation in service as Rule-97(5) specially

 stipulates that the period of suspension will be treated to be

 break in service unless the competent authority specifically

 directs that it shall be so treated for any specific purposes. This
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 44/100 view is supported from the judgment as has been mentioned

 hereinabove. 33. The aforesaid view is fortified from the recent

 judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court rendered in the case of State of Jharkhand and Anr. vs. Amresh Narayan Sinha reported in 2019(3) PLJR 329 (S.C.), wherein Amresh Narayan

 Sinha was placed under suspension and was informed about the

 initiation of departmental proceeding. The subsistence

 allowance which was paid initially at the rate of 50% was

 increased to 75%. The departmental proceeding was kept in

 abeyance pending the criminal proceeding. The prosecution has

 filed the charge-sheet and cognizance was taken. Thereupon, a

 Writ Petition was filed, the learned Single Judge directed the

 Government to take a decision with respect to the payment of

 full salary for the period of suspension irrespective of the

 pendency of the criminal case. This view was affirmed by the

 Division Bench, placing reliance on Rule 97 and held that

 Amresh Narayan Sinha is entitled to fully pay and allowances

 upon the revocation of his suspension, even if the departmental

 proceeding is pending against him. The Hon'ble Supreme Court

 has taken a different view having held that where the authority

 concludes that the suspension was wholly unjustified, the
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 45/100 Government servant shall be given full pay and allowances as if

 the order of suspension had not been passed. It has further been

 held that the High Court misconstrued the provisions of Rule

 97, gave direction for payment of full salary and allowance as a

 consequence of the suspension being revoked. The disciplinary

 proceedings have been kept in abeyance pending the conclusion

 of the criminal trial. It is only after the conclusion of the

 departmental inquiry that the competent authority will have to

 decide in terms of Rule 97 how the period of suspension should

 be treated and whether it is liable to be treated as a period spent

 on duty. The decision will be taken on the pay and allowances

 which should be allowed. Hence, the directions of the High

 Court at this stage were contrary to Rule 97. 34. It will be relevant to quote paragraph no.9 of the

 said judgment , which is as follows:- 35. In view of aforesaid discussions, it becomes amply

 clear that the competent authority has inherent power and

 jurisdiction to deal with situation in what manner the period of

 suspension would be treated in terms of break in service or will

 be treated as spent on duty, consequently, it has the power to

 decide the entitlement of full salary taking aid of the principles

 mentioned in Rule-97 of the Bihar Service Code. 36. As has been explained hereinabove, Rule-99 and
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 47/100 100 of the Bihar Pension Rules was never brought to notice in

 the earlier proceeding and after conjoint reading of Rule-97 of

 the Bihar Service Code read with Rule-43(b) (c), 99 and 100 of

 the Bihar Pension Rules, I am of the opinion that even after

 superannuation, in what manner the period of suspension will be

 considered, power lies within the domain of the competent

 authority as per the guidelines of Rule-97 of the Bihar Service

 Code. The proceeding after superannuation, with respect to

 entitlement of full salary, is akin to the proceeding of Rule- 97

 of the Bihar Service Code, is not a penalty proceeding, but

 nevertheless is penal in nature, requires notice or show-cause,

 whereupon the competent authority would decide entitlement of

 full salary, after considering explanation, if any, filed by the

 delinquent Government servant. 37. Incidental, but important point has been raised by

 Mr. Mauli, learned advocate, who has submitted that the

 judgment of Dr. Lakshmi Narain Singh (supra) is a judgment of

 three Judges Bench as after difference of opinion the matter was

 referred to the third Judge, so it will be treated to be a Larger

 Bench Judgment of three judges and has placed reliance on

 Clause-28 of the Letters Patent of Patna High Court, which is as

 follows:- and if such Division Court is composed of two
 or more Judges and the Judges are divided in
 opinion as to the decision to be given on any
 point, such point shall be decided according to
 the opinion of the majority of the Judges, if
 there be a majority, but, if the Judges be equally
 divided, they shall state the point upon which
 they differ and the case shall then be heard upon
 that point by one of more of the other judges
 and the point shall be decided according to the
 opinion of the majority of the Judges who have
 heard the case including those who first heard
 it." 38. He further placed reliance on Clause-12 of

 Chapter-2 and Clause-1 of Chapter-5 side by side Section 392 of

 the Code of Criminal Procedure and Section 98 of the Code of

 Civil Procedure, which are as follows:- 39. By and large dealing with an identical situation, in

 the event of conflict of view of two Judge of the Bench, the

 matter is referred to third Judge under Clause-28 of the Letters

 Patent of Patna High Court and the issue is to be decided

 according to the opinion of the majority of the Judges who have

 heard the case including those who first heard it, which is

 similar to the provision of Section 98 of the Code of Civil

 Procedure, but in Section 392 of the Code of Criminal
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 51/100 Procedure, the opinion of the third Judge will be the final

 opinion irrespective of the opinion of members of the earlier

 Bench. A Full Bench shall be a Bench of any number not less

 than three Judges. Clause-28 of the Letters Patent of Patna High

 Court talks about the majority of the opinion in terms of the

 Judges, who have heard the case including those who first heard

 the matter earlier, but does not talk of final judgment. 40. In my view, the Full Bench is constituted by

 number of judges sitting and hearing, in a proceeding, it cannot

 be conceived idea to split up the Bench, may be as per Clause-

 28 of the Letters Patent of Patna High Court the view of the

 majority of the Judges will govern the field but in the event it is

 heard by third Judge, it will not be treated to be the judgment of

 three Judges Bench unless it is constituted in terms of Clause-12

 of Chapter-II of the Patna High Court Rules. 41. On conclusion of argument, the case was reserved

 for judgment. However, Mr. Mrigank Mauli, mentioned for

 further hearing of the case as he could lay his hand on certain

 judgments of different High Courts, accordingly, the case was

 listed under the heading "To Be Mentioned". Both sides have

 been heard at full length on the question as to whether judgment

 of Dr. Lakshmi Narain Singh (supra) is a Full Bench judgment
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 52/100 or Single Bench judgment. 42. Whether the status of a judgment will be treated to

 be that of Single Bench Judgment, Division Bench Judgment or

 Full Bench judgment, on reference to the third Judge, who gives

 his opinion concurring with the view of one of the members of

 the Division Bench, came for consideration before the Lahore

 High Court in the case of The Royal Calcutta Turf Club

 through its Acting Secretary Mr. D. J. Leckle vs. Kishan

 Chand Manchanda, reported in AIR 1943 Lah. 84, in which

 the question has been formulated in the following manner:- 43. The facts of that case are that a suit was filed for

 declaration and injunction instituted by Mr. Manchanda against

 the Royal Calcutta Turf Club and the Lahore Race Club. The

 Trial Judge held that though the Lahore Court has jurisdiction

 but, the plaint did not disclose a cause of action and accordingly,

 dismissed the suit. On first appeal, the learned Senior

 Subordinate Judge decided that the plaint discloses the cause of

 action against both defendants, he accordingly, accepted the

 appeal and remanded the case to the trial Court for decision on

 merits. On second appeal, the decision was affirmed by the

 learned Single Judge. The defendants preferred two separate

 appeals under the Letters Patent, the Division Bench differed on

 the question whether the plaint discloses a cause of action. Mr.

 Justice Tek Chand was of the opinion that the decision of the

 learned Single Judge must be maintained and the appeal must be

 dismissed, whereas Mr. Justice Blacker was of the opinion that

 the plaint discloses no cause of action and that the appeal should

 be accepted and the order of the Trial Court is required to be

 restored. In such circumstance, the matter was referred to the

 third Judge in terms of Clause- 26 of the Letters Patent, the third

 Judge considered the judgment of Allahabad High Court and
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 54/100 other High Courts and the practice in Allahabad High Court, in

 such cases, is for the referee Judge to return his opinion to the

 Bench concerned for pronouncement of judgment whereas the

 practice in the Lahore High Court is that, on difference of

 opinion, when the matter is referred to the third Judge, he is not

 required to return the opinion arrived at by him, but pronounce

 the judgment, but in the aforesaid case, the Court has recorded

 that the practice which has been narrated in these cases was not

 judicially considered as to whether the final decision should be

 that of the referee Bench or whether the referee Bench should

 return his finding to the original Bench and specifically

 formulated the question in the following manner:- 44. After due deliberation, the answer has been given

 in the following manner:- 45. Taking note of the fact that Clause 26 of the Letters

 Patent postulates that on reference the point is to be decided

 according to the opinion of the majority, even if the decision on

 that point is to be given by the referee Judge, it cannot be held

 that the point should be regarded as synonymous with the whole

 appeal and on analysis and on consideration, the Lahore High

 Court held that it will be referable that when the Division Bench

 differs on a particular point and the same is referred to the third

 Judge, the probity lies that the third Judge gives his opinion and

 would remand the same to the referee Judge, who will actually

 pronounce the judgment, hence, in terms of Lahore High Court

 judge, it will be a Division Bench Judgment. 46. Identical issue came up for consideration in

 Calcutta High Court in the case of Shivani Properties Private

 Limited vs. United Bank of India , reported in CALLT - 2014,

 volume-3, 465 and the issue was decided under Clause-36 of the

 Letters Patent, which is identical to the provision of Clause-28

 of the Letters Patent of Patna High Court. In that case also, upon
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 56/100 a difference of opinion in a Division Bench regarding fixation of

 actual rent with respect to the suit premises, the matter was

 referred to the third Judge for its opinion. In that case, the scope

 of Clause-36 of the Letters Patent was considered. It has been

 held that it is evident that upon there being a difference of

 opinion of the Judges of a Bench, comprising an even number of

 Judges, a reference shall be made only to the extent of the

 difference and such aspect shall be placed before another Judge

 or a Bench of more than one Judge, provided that the differing

 Judges are not party to any Bench taking up the reference. The

 ultimate decision on the relevant aspect would be the majority

 view thereon. But, the Court has further modified in the manner

 that in practice, upon there being a difference of opinion in a

 two-Judges Bench, the point of difference is referred to a third

 Judge to concur with the opinion of one of the two original

 Judges for a majority view being obtained on the point of

 difference. If there are only two possible answers to a question

 and there is a difference of opinion in a two-Judge Bench, the

 reference to a third Judge would suffice to achieve the majority

 view on the point. However, on the point of difference, the

 majority opinion may not be achieved upon a reference being

 made to a third Judge for it would only be a third opinion as
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 57/100 having held that in the case of difference of opinion on the

 quantum of rent was referred to the third Judge and the third

 Judge instead of concurring with either of the two members of

 the Division Bench, given a third opinion and held that highest

 common factor in arithmetic would be taken for fixation of rent.

 In the aforesaid case, the Court has not gone into the issue as to

 whether it will be a judgment of Single Bench, Division Bench

 or it will be a judgment of Full Bench. 47. In Delhi High Court the issue in connection with Section 259 of the Income Tax Act, which is similar to Clause-

 28 of the Letters Patent of Patna High Court, came for

 consideration in the case of P.C. Puri vs. The Commissioner of

 Income Tax, New Delhi , reported in ILR (Delhi) 134. In that

 case also, the reference was made under Section 259 of the

 Income Tax Act, the matter was being heard by the Division

 Bench, but they drew conflict of opinion and reference was

 made to the third Judge in terms of Section 259 of the Income

 Tax Act. Clause-2 postulates as follows:- 48. In paragraph no.9 of the said judgment , it has been

 held that there is no difference, really speaking, between a full

 Bench of three Judges sitting together and this method of

 reference to the third Judge in the case of a difference of opinion

 between the two judges. Whether the first method is adopted or

 the second, "opinion of the majority" will be basis. In that case,

 the reference was made to a third Judge to ascertain his opinion.

 His is the deciding voice and the third Judge is the Full Bench,

 not alone, but along with two others who first heard the case. If

 the three judges sit at the same time or at different times and the

 third Judge hears the matter later on, a difference of opinion

 does not make much difference. It will be relevant to quote

 paragraph no.9 of the said judgment , which reads as under:- 49. The view that has been taken by the Delhi High

 Court is not conceivable in the context of Patna High Court
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 60/100 Rules on the ground that the strength of the Bench is decided by

 the number of Judges sitting together in one transaction and not

 by a split up Bench would constitute the number of Judges. In

 case of three Judges or two judges, it will be a Full Bench

 judgment or the Division Bench judgment respectively, but in

 case of difference of opinion in a Division Bench and the matter

 being referred to the third Judge for his opinion, in our view,

 that cannot constitute a Full Bench judgment. A split of Bench

 cannot be said to be a Full Bench judgment, but a Full Bench

 means when three judges sit together and hear the case in one

 transaction and decide the same. 50. In Bombay High Court a peculiar situation arose in

 the case of Vasant Ganu Patil of Thane vs. University of

 Mumbai reported in 2014 SCC OnLine Bom. 1855 = (2015) 1

 AIR Mom R 576. In this case also, on difference of opinion in a

 Division Bench, the matter was referred to the third Judge under

 Clause- 36 of the Letters Patent, but the third Judge did not give

 his clean opinion. The matter was placed before the Division

 Bench presided over by the Chief Justice and Justice Godbole.

 The Union of India has submitted that the Single Judge has not

 given clear opinion whether the view of the Chief Justice was

 correct or the view of another member, namely, Justice Godbole
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 61/100 was, hence, the matter was again referred to the Division Bench,

 as Division Bench found the answer was not clear as to which

 view was correct, hence it referred the matter to another

 Division Bench to test the correctness of its view. After

 reference, the petitioner amended the petition, added several

 fresh grounds of challenge, which traversed beyond the points

 of reference. The question was raised as to whether the Bench,

 which has been assigned the matter on reference would consider

 the additional points which were not point of reference, but

 added by way of filing amendment petition. After detailed

 discussion, it has been held that referee Judge will not have

 jurisdiction to give his opinion beyond the points referred,

 additional points raised would not be decided by referee Judge,

 in the manner that Clause- 36 of the Letters Patent provides for

 resolution of difference of opinion between the Judges of the

 referring Court. It will be relevant to quote paragraph nos. 25,

 26 and 32 of the aforesaid judgment, which reads as under:- 26. This is an Authority of the proposition that
 the jurisdiction of the judges deciding the
 reference is restricted to expressing an opinion
 on the point of difference and the jurisdiction
 for deciding all the points, including the points
 of difference vests with the referral bench. These
 principles have been reiterated in the case of Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd. Calcutta v. State
 of Madhya Pradesh [AIR 1967 Madhya Pradesh
 56]. 32. The result of the above discussion can,
 therefore, be summed up as:- 51. In Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case of Firm

 Ladhuram Rameshwardayal vs. Krishi Upaj Mandi Samiti

 Shivpuri and Ors. reported in 1977 SCC OnLine MP 33, the
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 64/100 Division Bench has arrived to a difference of opinion, on that

 account, the matter was referred to the third Bench and after the

 decision when the matter again went back for final

 pronouncement one of the members of the referring Bench was

 not available. The question arose as to whether the new Division

 Bench would have jurisdiction to adjudicate, decide and

 pronounce the majority view on the point referred, the Court

 held, mere pronouncement of final opinion by any Division

 Bench, consisting the old member or new member, would not

 effect jurisdiction to pronounce the majority opinion after return

 of the opinion of the referee Judge. 52. The facts of that case are that Firm Ladhuram

 Rameshwardayal sought a relief to quash the Electoral Roll and

 also to quash the Election programme in connection with an

 election to the Agriculture Market Committee of Krishi Upaj

 Mandi Samiti, Shivpuri. The Division Bench comprising of

 Justice Raina and justice Bhachawat, heard the matter, but they

 differed. In the opinion of justice Raina, the petition was to be

 dismissed and in the opinion of justice Bhachawat the petition

 was to be allowed. As per Rule-11 of Chapter 1 of the Madhya

 Pradesh High Court Rules, Justice Lodha was appointed as third

 Judge to give his opinion, he partly allowed the petition,
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 65/100 quashed the Electoral Roll and directed to prepare a fresh

 Electoral Roll in accordance with law, on the lines indicated by

 him and consequently, the election held during that period was

 quashed. The matter was referred to the Chief Justice, who

 constituted a Division Bench comprises of Justice Vyas and

 Justice Bhachawat as Justice Raina had already joined as

 Chairman of the Industrial Court, Indore, hence, the matter was

 placed before that Division Bench, where a question cropped up

 as to whether that Bench, which had not heard the matter on

 merit at any stage, could have jurisdiction to decide the case in

 accordance with the majority opinion of Bench. Both the Judges

 decided that it requires a hearing by a Larger Bench and the

 matter was referred to Full Bench, as like Clause- 28, identical

 provision of Rule-26 in the Letters Patent of the Madhya

 Pradesh High Court is silent as to which Bench shall discern and

 declare the majority opinion, as it stipulates the point shall be

 decided according to the opinion of the majority of the Judges

 who heard the case including those who have first heard it. The

 question arose that the word 'decided' ordinarily envisages an

 application of the mind but, such application of the mind must

 be restricted to two things only; first, to find out from the three

 opinions what the majority opinion is and to 'decide' the point
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 66/100 according to the majority opinion; and second, to decide what

 relief flows from such decision, which relief the Division Bench

 shall be bound to give to the parties. On interpretation of

 provision of Rule-26, it is completely reflected that the opinion

 has to be formed at two stages. At first stage of Division Bench,

 the two Judges have to record a separate finding on difference of

 opinion and later on, the third Judge, who has to give his finding

 approving either of the findings, will be referred back to the

 Division Bench, all the opinions would be placed side by side to

 declare majority opinion, may be formal expression of majority

 view. As the provision of Rule- 26 prescribes that the referee

 Judge will not give his third opinion apart from the opinion that

 has been given by two Judges, giving a difference of opinion, as

 has been held that the third Judge has no jurisdiction to decide

 any other point. His jurisdiction is limited to the point on which

 the Division Bench disagreed in opinion. It is that point alone,

 which is referred to the third Judge for decision and it has been

 held that if the referee Judge decides apart from the points

 referred, on which the Judges of Division Bench have not

 differed or if the referee Judge decides the whole case, that part

 from his opinion or order or judgment must be read as opinion

 on the point or points on which the Division Bench were
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 67/100 divided in opinion, the rest to be ignored for want of

 jurisdiction. By way of clarification, the Court has dealt with

 this provision by way of giving example, if in an appeal A, B

 and C are three parties, claiming their title over a piece of land

 and two Judges of the Division Bench have differed in their

 opinion, one of them is holding that A is the owner, while the

 other is holding that B is the owner. In such situation, the matter

 is referred to the third Judge, he gives his opinion that neither A

 nor B is the owner, but C is the owner. The Court has taken a

 view that the third Judge will have to confine his opinion either

 in favour of A or in favour of B, ultimately, the Court has held

 that the third Judge will confine his opinion on the point which

 has been referred, he does not have jurisdiction to decide new

 point nor he can enter into the point on which the Judges of the

 Division Bench were not divided in opinion, if the third Judge

 express any opinion on other points and finally decides the case

 as a whole, the later part of his opinion has to be ignored. 53. While deciding the matter, the Full Bench has

 taken into consideration the judgment of the Lahore High Court

 rendered in the case of Royal Calcutta Turf Club (supra) and

 quoted the relevant portion of that judgment to understand the

 real matrix of the case. It will be relevant to quote certain
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 68/100 portion of paragraph no.11 and paragraph nos. 18, 19, 20, 21

 and 22 of the judgment, which are as follows:- (2) When on a difference of opinion between
 two Judges constituting a Division Bench, a
 matter is referred to a third Judge, the third
 Judge can, only express his 'opinion' on the
 'point' on which the Judges are divided in
 opinion. However, the third Judge cannot
 'decide' that point. (He has to leave to the
 Division Bench to 'decide' the point as
 directed under Clause 26 of the Letters
 Patent). Nor can he enter into any other
 point on which the Judges of the Division
 Bench were not divided in opinion. If the
 third Judge expresses his opinion on any
 other point or finally decides the case as a
 whole, the latter part of his opinion (be it
 styled as 'order' or 'judgment') has to be
 ignored as without jurisdiction. After the
 third Judge has recorded his opinion; the
 case must be laid before the Division Bench
 for deciding the point or points which were
 referred to the third Judge according to the
 method provided by Clause 26 of the Letters
 Patent and it is at this stage that a Division
 Bench will finally decide the case before it. It
 is not the requirement of law that the case
 must be laid before the same Division Bench
 which first heard it, after it is returned by the
 third Judge. When one of the Judges
 constituting the Division Bench which first
 heard the case, has retired or is not
 otherwise available, the Chief Justice can
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 72/100 constitute another Division Bench to decide
 the case according to the method provided
 by Clause 26 of the Letters Patent." 54. So, the crux of the Full Bench judgment is that the

 referee Judge will confine his consideration with respect to the

 issue which has been framed and referred, the third Judge has to

 choose either of the opinion given by the members of the

 Division Bench, who differed with each other and he cannot

 give his separate opinion apart from the opinion given by the

 Division Bench, inasmuch as, he cannot give his opinion on the

 point which has not been referred and he cannot decide the case

 as a whole, but after recording his opinion, will return the same

 to the Division Bench, who will declare the majority of the

 opinion. This aspect will be dealt with by this Court at a later

 stage. 55. In the case of Shriram Industrial Enterprises Ltd.

 vs. the Union of India and Others reported in 1995 SCC

 OnLine ALL 647 : AIR 1996 All 135, the interpretation of

 identical provision of letters Patent came for consideration

 before the Full Bench of Allahabad, as in that case two Judges

 have differed in their opinion on the question of competence of

 State Legislature to enact U.P. Sheera Niyantran Adhiniyam
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 73/100 1964. The Hon'ble Chief Justice instead of referring the matter

 to the third Judge, constituted a Full Bench to answer the point

 of difference between two Judges. For understanding the real

 issue involved in that case , certain facts has to be recorded. The

 Constitutional validity of U.P. Sheera Niyantran Adhiniyam

 1964 was assailed before the Division Bench basically on three

 grounds. The Judges of the Division Bench delivered a separate

 opinion, both have concurred in repelling the attack based on Article 19(1) (f) and (g) and Article 301 of the Constitution of

 India, however, they differed on the third point, one Judge has

 given his opinion that State Legislature lacked legislative

 competence to enact Sections 7 , 8 and 10 of the Adhiniyam

 while second Judge was of the opinion that the State Legislature

 had jurisdiction to legislate and the Adhiniyam was valid. The

 orders of the writ petition was challenged when both the Judges

 signed their opinions. On the same day, they passed another

 order formulating the point of difference and directing the

 papers to be laid before the Hon'ble Chief Justice for referring

 the matter to the third Judge. At the initial stage of the

 proceeding, one of the pertinent questions was raised that when

 the two Hon'ble Judges delivered the final judgment, one

 allowing the writ petition and another dismissing the writ
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 74/100 petition and after having been delivered the judgment they

 became functus officio and thereafter they could not have passed

 the order formulating their point of difference for being decided

 by another Judge. In that view of the matter, the request was

 made to hear the whole petition and decide the point

 accordingly, but the Full Bench has rejected the objection raised

 having stated that Members of the Division Bench have

 recorded the point upon which they differed, then the case shall

 be heard by a Bench of two or more Judges, as may be

 nominated by the Hon'ble Chief Justice, upon which the

 reference has been made, shall then be decided according to the

 majority of the opinion of the Judges, who has heard the case

 including those who who have first heard it. The Court has

 arrived to a finding that in fact the Division Bench could not

 decide the case finally as they have recorded their separate

 opinion, which they were differing to each other, so that

 decision will not have a force of law and binding on the parties,

 will only be an opinion not a judgment. It has further been held

 that if the two Judges constituting a Division Bench gives

 contradictory decision or decisions at variance with each other,

 in law, such decisions cannot be called as judgments as they do

 not decide any question or issue in the case or proceeding nor do
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 75/100 they decide any of the rights of the parties. In such a situation,

 the decision so rendered will only be an opinion on the point,

 but it could not be a judgment at all. In crux, it has been held

 that there can be no doubt that the proper course for the Judges

 who have dissented in their respective opinions while hearing a

 case is not to pass final order either allowing or dismissing the

 same, but to record their point of difference expressing their

 opinions. However, it will still be open to them to state the point

 upon which they have differed even if they have passed final

 orders. If the point of difference is not stated, it will be for the

 third Judge or Judges to whom the case is referred to ascertain

 the same and to give his or their opinion thereon. It was further

 held that the Full Bench would not decide the whole case, but

 opinion formed by Full Bench would be returned to referred

 Judge for final adjudication of the case. 56. It will be proper to quote paragraph nos. 116, 117,

 118 and 124 of the said judgment , which read as under:- 57. One matter relating to Small Causes Court came

 for consideration in the case of Shekhar Narayan Shetty vs.

 Madhavlal Pittie and Ors. , reported in 2015 (4) Mh. L.J. 687,

 which was considering the contextual interpretation of Section

 98 of the Civil Procedure Code and it has been held that when

 the two Judges recorded a difference of opinion and the matter

 is referred to the third Judge, the third Judge would not give a

 final verdict, but he can only record his opinion. He cannot

 decide the case finally nor can decide the point, as the matter is

 to be decided by the two Judges' Bench. It is only after the
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 78/100 opinion of the third Judge, it placed before the Division Bench,

 who will make a final declaration. It will be relevant to quote

 paragraph no.14 of the said judgment , which reads as under:- 58. In the case of the State of Bihar vs. Ram Ballabh

 Das Jalan and Another , reported in AIR 1960 Patna 400, the

 interpretation of Clause-28 of the Letters Patent came for
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 79/100 consideration before this Court and the Court has held that when

 the members of the Division Bench are divided in their opinion,

 in that event, the matter will be placed before the Hon'ble Chief

 Justice to refer the matter to the Single Judge or Division Bench,

 whatever he likes and the referee Judge would confine his

 consideration only to the point of difference, which has been

 referred for giving his opinion. The opinion of referee Judge and

 Judges who have heard the case earlier will decide the majority

 of opinion. The referee Judge will not endeavour to give his

 opinion on the point which has not been urged before the

 Division Bench and on which there has been no difference of

 opinion between them, since it cannot be heard under the above

 Clause of the Letters Patent by a third Judge , in that case the

 decision cannot be according to the opinion of the majority of

 the Judges including those who first heard it. It would be proper

 to quote relevant portion of paragraph no.7 of the said judgment ,

 which is as follows:- The above provision makes it perfectly clear
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 81/100 that, it the Judges of the Division Bench are
 divided in their opinion as to the decision to be
 given on any point, they shall state that point
 and the case shall then be heard upon that point
 by one or more of the other Judges. Therefore, it
 is only that point on which there has been the
 difference of opinion between the two learned
 Judges of the Division Bench which can be
 heard by me under Clause 28 of the Letters
 Patent. The latter part of the clause, that the
 point shall be decided according to the opinion
 of the majority of the Judges who have heard the
 case including those who first heard it, also
 makes it perfectly clear that a point which has
 not been urged before the Division Bench and
 on which there has been no difference of opinion
 between them cannot be heard under the above
 clause of the Letters Patent by a third Judge
 inasmuch as in that case the decision cannot be
 according to the opinion of the majority of the
 Judges including those who first heard it. In that view of the matter, I do not think the
 respondent is entitled to urge this point before
 me. True it is that the point was not urged before
 the Division Bench because the respondents
 were not represented by any lawyer to press
 their case, as stated above, but that cannot be
 helped. Law does not permit such an argument
 to be advanced before a Bench hearing an
 appeal under the above clause of the Letters
 Patent." (Emphasis underlined)
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 82/100 59. Identical situation arose in the case of Smt. Jayanti

 Devi vs. Srichand Mal Agrawal and Ors. , reported in 1984

 PLJR 852. In that case also two Judges had recorded a

 difference of opinion and the matter was referred to the third

 Judge. As the matter was related to Section 98 of the Code of

 Civil Procedure preliminary objection was raised that since the

 point of law upon which the Judges have differed have not been

 stated by the Bench, hearing of the appeal, as required under the

 proviso to sub-section (2) of Section 98 of the Civil Procedure

 Code, the reference to the third Judge itself is illegal. There is

 no majority opinion of the Judges reversing the decree of the

 Court below and the same should be deemed to be confirmed. In

 that case, the Court has made a comparison of Section 98 of the

 Civil Procedure Code with Clause 28 of the Letters Patent and

 held that difference of opinion on the question of law will be

 formulated and referred to the third Judge for his opinion as Section 98 of the Code of Civil Procedure envisaged, the

 difference of opinion only on the question of law. So, Section 98 stipulates that it is only confined to the opinion on the question

 of law, upon which two Judges differed, referred to the third

 Judge who will record his own opinion, remit back and that part

 will be decided according to the majority opinion, who have
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 83/100 first head the appeal including the referee Judge. 60. In view of the aforesaid, it is very much clear that

 in the event of difference of opinion between the members of

 the Division Bench, the Division Bench will record its

 difference of opinion and on the discretion of the Chief Justice

 the matter will be referred to the third Judge, either Single or

 Division Bench and the third Judge will confine his opinion on

 the point which has been referred and will not embark on the

 point or points not referred, but in a situation if the third Judge

 gives an opinion apart from the point referred, I am of the

 opinion that when the matter again goes to the Division Bench

 for final pronouncement, the majority of the opinion will be the

 basis for judgment on the point which was referred. But, it is

 also made clear that on consideration of judgment of different

 High Courts, it can safely be recorded that when a single issue

 or several issues have been raised and on few issues the

 Division Bench agreed and on certain issues they have differed,

 that issues on which there is difference, will be referred to the

 third Judge and the third Judge would give his opinion on the

 point referred, but will not have a jurisdiction to finally

 pronounce the judgment between the parties, but the referee

 Judge has only to record his opinion and remit back the same to
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 84/100 the Division Bench and the Division Bench will formally

 declare the majority opinion and then the Division Bench will

 not start a de novo hearing on the issue which has already been

 concluded. The majority opinion is to be culled out and final

 verdict could be pronounced, as it will be a matter of declaration

 of final verdict, but if on any point, apart from the reference, the

 referee Judge gives his opinion on such point, the parties will

 have a liberty to address the Division Bench on new point which

 was not subject matter of consideration and the Division Bench

 will decide the new point and give the final decision on that

 point. 61. As we have already held that even after

 superannuation of a Government employee, the Government

 will have a jurisdiction to examine the entitlement of full salary

 for the period of suspension, applying the principle of Rule 97

 of the Bihar Service Code, which has elaborately been dealt

 with, this Court in normal circumstance ought to have referred

 back this case to decide the same on its merit. But, since much

 time has already been spent, it will not be judicious, prudent and

 proper to leave the matter undecided on its merit. While

 deciding the issue on merit, the Court will have to apply the

 principle of judicial review in the matter of administrative
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 85/100 decision i.e. under what circumstance the Court can interfere

 with the decision of the authority in administrative action. The

 basic principle of interference is that the Court would interfere

 with the action if the same suffers from perversity, patent

 illegality, irrationality, want of power to take the decision and

 procedural irregularity. If any act is based on some materials, it

 cannot be said to be perverse or warrant interference in exercise

 of extraordinary power of the High Court under judicial review.

 A decision is vitiated and irrational if the decision is so

 outrageous that it is in defiance of all logic. If the person acting

 reasonably, has taken a possible decision having regard to the

 material available on record, the decision cannot be said to be

 irrational. Moreover, when the decision apparently suffers from

 apparent error of law on the face of the decision, which goes to

 the root of the decision or the error is so apparent, then in such

 circumstance, the Court will interfere with the order in exercise

 of power under judicial review. The judicial review would be

 exercised not against the decision, but the decision making

 process, of course a patent illegality, perversity and irrationality,

 which goes to the root of the matter, may vitiate the decision

 making process itself. Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 86/100 62. Reliance can be placed on the decision of the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sarvepalli Ramaiah

 (Died) as per LRs and others v. District Collector, Chittoor

 District and others , reported in AIR 2019 S.C. 1706. It will be

 relevant to quote paragraph nos. 37 to 40 of the said judgment ,

 which are as follows:- 63. Reliance can also be placed on another decision of

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court rendered in the case of Heinz India

 Private Limited and Another vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and

 Others , reported in (2012) 5 SCC 442. Paragraph nos. 60, 62 to

 68 of the said judgment are as follows:- 62. In Tata Cellular v. Union of India (1994) 6
 SCC 651, this Court identified the grounds of
 judicial review of administrative action in the
 following words : (SCC pp.677-78, para 77)

 "77. The duty of the court is to confine
 itself to the question of legality. Its
 concern should be : Therefore, it is not for the court to determine
 whether a particular policy or particular
 decision taken in the fulfilment of that policy is
 fair. It is only concerned with the manner in
 which those decisions have been taken. The
 extent of the duty to act fairly will vary from
 case to case. Shortly put, the grounds upon
 which an administrative action is subject to
 control by judicial review can be classified as
 under : maker must understand correctly the law
 that regulates his decision-making power
 and must give effect to it. (ii) Irrationality, namely, Wednesbury
 unreasonableness. (iii) Procedural impropriety." 63. Reference may also be made to the decision of
 this Court in State of Punjab v. Gurdial Singh
 (1980) 2 SCC 471 where Krishna Iyer, J. noticed the limitations of judicial review and
 declared that the power vested in the Superior
 Courts ought to be exercised with great
 circumspection and that interference may be
 permissible only where the exercise of the power
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 91/100 seems to have been vitiated or is otherwise void
 on well established grounds. The Court
 observed: (SCC p. 475, para 8)

 "8. ...The court is handcuffed in this
 jurisdiction and cannot raise its hand
 against what it thinks is a foolish choice. Wisdom in administrative action is the
 property of the executive and judicial
 circumspection keeps the court lock jawed
 save where the power has been polluted
 by oblique ends or is otherwise void on
 well- established grounds. The
 constitutional balance cannot be upset." 64. There is almost complete unanimity on the
 principle that judicial review is not so much
 concerned with the decision itself as much with
 the decision-making process. (See Chief
 Constable of North Wales Police v. Evans
 [1982] 3 All ER 141). As a matter of fact, the
 juristic basis for such limitation on the exercise
 of the power of judicial review is that unless the
 restrictions on the power of the Court are
 observed, the Courts may themselves under the
 guise of preventing abuse of power, be guilty of
 usurping that power. 65. Frankfurter J.'s note of caution in Trop v.
 Dulles 356 U. S. 86 (1958) is in this regard
 apposite when he said: (L Ed p.653)

 "... All power is, in Madison's phrase, 'of
 an encroaching nature'. ... Judicial power
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 92/100 is not immune against this human
 weakness. It also must be on guard
 against encroaching beyond its proper
 bounds, and not the less so since the only
 restraint upon it is self- restraint." 66.That the Court dealing with the exercise of
 power of judicial review does not substitute its
 judgment for that of the legislature or executive
 or their agents as to matters within the province
 of either, and that the Court does not supplant
 "the feel of the expert" by its own review, is also
 fairly well-settled by the decisions of this Court.
 In all such cases judicial examination is
 confined to finding out whether the findings of
 fact have a reasonable basis on evidence and
 whether such findings are consistent with the
 laws of the land. [See Union of India v. S.B.
 Vohra , ( 2004) 2 SCC 150, Shri Sitaram Sugar
 Co. Ltd. v. Union of India , (1990) 3 SCC 223,
 and Thansingh Nathmal and Ors. v. Supdt. of
 Taxes and Ors., Dhubri, AIR 1964 SC 1419]. 67. In Dharangadhra Chemical Works Ltd. v. State of Saurashtra and Ors., AIR 1957 SC 264,
 this Court held that decision of a Tribunal on a
 question of fact which it has jurisdiction to
 determine is not liable to be questioned in
 proceedings under Article 226 of the
 Constitution unless it is shown to be totally
 unsupported by any evidence. To the same effect
 is the view taken by this Court in Thansingh
 Nathmal's case (supra) where this Court held
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 93/100 that the High Court does not generally
 determine questions which require an elaborate
 examination of evidence to establish the right to
 enforce which the writ is claimed. 68. We may while parting with the discussion on
 the legal dimensions of judicial review refer to
 the following passage from Reid v. Secretary of
 State for Scotland [1999] 1 All ER 481, which
 succinctly sums up the legal proposition that
 judicial review does not allow the Court of
 review to examine the evidence with a view to
 forming its own opinion about the substantial
 merits of the case. (AC pp. 541 F-H and 542 A)

 "Judicial review involves a challenge to the
 legal validity of the decision. It does not
 allow the court of review to examine the
 evidence with a view to forming its own
 view about the substantial merits of the
 case. It may be that the tribunal whose
 decision is being challenged has done
 something which it had no lawful authority
 to do. It may have abused or misused the
 authority which it had. It may have
 departed from the procedures which either
 by statute or at common law as a matter of
 fairness it ought to have observed. As
 regards the decisions itself it may be found
 to be perverse or irrational or grossly
 disproportionate to what was required. Or
 the decision may be found to be erroneous
 in respect of a legal deficiency, as for
 example, through the absence of evidence,
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 94/100 or of sufficient evidence, to support it, or
 through account being taken of irrelevant
 matter, or through a failure for any reason
 to take account of a relevant matter, or
 through some misconstruction of the terms
 of the statutory provision which the decision
 maker is required to apply. But while the
 evidence may have to be explored in order
 to see if the decision is vitiated by such
 legal deficiencies it is perfectly clear that in
 case of review, as distinct from an ordinary
 appeal, the court may not set about forming
 its own preferred view of evidence." 64. In the present case, the petitioner has challenged

 the notice vide memo no.488 dated 07.03.1995 as well as memo

 no.1357 dated 30.06.1995, issued by the Director, Social

 Welfare, Government of Bihar, Patna. By the memo dated

 07.03.1995 show-cause notice was issued to the original writ

 petitioner with respect to her entitlement to the entire salary for

 the period of her suspension as per Rule 97 of the Bihar Service

 Code. It was ultimately held vide memo dated 30.06.1995 that

 the original writ petitioner will be entitled to only subsistence

 allowance for the period from 25.08.1993 to 30.04.1993. In the

 present case, departmental proceeding was initiated for

 misconduct, inquiry was conducted, in which the petitioner has

 been found guilty and thereafter the punishment of censure was
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 95/100 inflicted upon the petitioner vide order dated 03.01.1995, but

 this order was passed after his superannuation, hence in such

 circumstance, the said order dated 03.01.1995 was interfered

 with by this Court and the same was set aside as the proceeding

 was not converted under Section 43(b) of the Bihar Pension

 Rules, but the fact remains that the order of punishment was

 passed on the basis of the finding of misconduct, recorded by

 the Inquiry Officer in which charge nos. 1, 5, 6 and 7 have been

 found to be proved. This part remained untouched since the

 petitioner superannuated. That is why the order of punishment

 was set aside. Considering the broader principle, Clause-2 of

 Rule-97 stipulates that in the event the Government servant is

 fully exonerated or suspension order is declared to be wholly

 unjustified, the retired Government servant will be entitled to

 fully pay and allowances and those who are not governed under

 Clause-2 will be governed by Clause-3 read with clause-5 of the

 Bihar Service Code. Admittedly, the petitioner has not been

 exonerated as certain charges have been found to be proved,

 though the order of punishment was set aside on technical

 grounds. In such circumstance, I would rely on the principle

 enumerated in Rule-97 read with Clause 3 and 5 of the Bihar

 Service Code. Hence, I do not find that the action impugned
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 96/100 suffers from procedural illegality or in any manner it can be

 said, suffers from illegality, irrationality or perversity. Summation:- Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 97/100 completion of the inquiry proceeding or non-

 submission of the inquiry report. (iv) If the departmental proceeding has been

 rendered infructuous and not converted

 under Rule 43(b) of the Bihar Pension Rules

 and no inquiry report has been submitted, in

 that circumstances, the retired Government

 servant will be entitled to the entire salary. (v) If the departmental proceeding has been

 initiated, the inquiry proceeding has been

 concluded and in case any substantive order

 has been passed after superannuation, which

 cannot be upheld on account of cession of

 relationship of master and servant, in that

 circumstance, the competent authority is

 empowered to take a decision on the

 principle of Rule-97(3) read with Rule 97(5)

 of the Bihar Service Code. (vi) If the Government servant has been

 prosecuted departmentally and the order of

 punishment has been passed while in service

 and he has filed an appeal but by that time he
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 98/100 superannuates and the appeal is remanded

 back on technical ground, in that

 circumstance, Rule-97 (3) read with Sub- rule (5) will play an important factor for

 entitlement of full salary during the period of

 suspension. (vii) If the two members of the Division Bench

 record a difference of opinion, the reference

 would be made to the third Judge either

 Single or Division Bench in terms of Clause-

 28 of the Letters Patent of the Patna High

 Court and the third Judge will confine his

 opinion to the point which has been referred

 and will not embark on the point or points

 not referred. After recording his/their

 opinion, the referee Judge will return

 his/their opinion to the referral Bench in

 terms of Clause-28 of the Letters Patent of

 Patna High Court and the point shall be

 decided according to the opinion of the

 majority of Judges, who have heard the case

 including those who first heard, whereupon
 Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 99/100 the referral Bench would finally pronounce

 the judgment. In the event, the referee Bench

 decides the point apart from the point

 referred for adjudication, the opinion

 recorded by the referee Bench will be subject

 matter of discussion before the referral

 Bench and the decision of the Division

 Bench will be treated to be the final opinion

 on that point or points and the same will be

 treated to be the part of the judgment and in

 that event, the principle laid down in Clause-

 28 of the Letters Patent of Patna High Court

 will not be applicable for deciding the

 majority opinion. (viii) The contention of Mr. Mauli, learned

 Advocate, that the judgment of Dr. Lakshmi

 Narain Singh (supra) is a Full Bench

 Judgment, cannot be approved and accepted

 as the judgment has been delivered by Single

 Bench and not remitted to Division Bench

 for final approval. Hence , the said judgment is a Single Bench Judgment. Patna High Court L.P.A No.1469 of 1995 dt.25-09-2019 100/100 66. For the reasons recorded hereinabove, I am of the

 view that the notice dated 07.03.1995, issuing show-cause and

 the ultimate action taken by the respondent authorities vide

 order dated 30.06.1995, do not suffer from any patent illegality,

 irrationality or perversity and procedural irregularity. Hence,

 this Court does not find any merit in this appeal, accordingly,

 the same is dismissed. 67. Before parting with this judgment, we record our

 appreciation to the valuable assistance given by Mr. Mrigank

 Mauli, Advocate, as an Amicus Curiae, in effective disposal of

 this case. (Shivaji Pandey, J)

 I agree. (S. Kumar, J)

 I agree.