Heard counsel for the parties. This is third bail application filed by the applicant,
who has been arrested on 20.06.2014 in connection with
Crime No.266/2012 registered with Police Station,
Gopal Ganj, Sagar - commonly known as VYAPAM
examination scam cases- for the offence punishable
under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471, 474, 120-B of
I.P.C. The role ascribed to the applicant by the
prosecution is that of a beneficiary. It is stated that the
applicant got in touch with one D.P. Yadav for
arranging an impersonator to appear for him in the
VYAPAM examination for securing good marks. The
said D.P. Yadav arranged Sudhanshu Shrivastava to
appear in the examination and impersonate the
applicant. Both D.P. Yadav and Sudhanshu Shrivastava
have been arrested. D.P. Yadav was arrested on
 13.11.2014 and Sudhanshu Shrivastava has been
arrested on 07.12.2014. Even if the prosecution case is accepted as it is, it
would indicate that the applicant was in contact with
only D.P. Yadav and nothing more. Since the said D.P.
Yadav has already been arrested and later on even the
impersonator, who appeared in the examination,
coupled with the fact that the charge-sheet has already
been filed against the applicant on 11.09.2014 and the
applicant is in jail since 20.06.2014, in our opinion, the
applicant is entitled for bail. Counsel for the respondent-State, however,
submits that the hearing of this bail application be
deferred to enable the investigating agency to arrest one
Sachin Yadav whose name has been divulged by
Sudhanshu Shrivastava after his arrest on
07.12.2014. We fail to understand, how the continued custody
of the applicant, who is in judicial custody, would be of
any help to the investigating agency. As aforesaid, it is
not the case of the prosecution that the applicant was in
contact with Sudhanshu Shrivastava or for that matter
another person now named by the said Sudhanshu
Shrivastava to be involved in the commission of the
 said offence, namely, Sachin Yadav. In our opinion, so
far as this applicant is concerned, investigation is
already complete as of now. Moreover, charge-sheet has
also been filed against the applicant. The material to
show the link of the applicant with D.P. Yadav has
come on record along with the said charge-sheet. Learned counsel for the respondent-State would
then rely on the observation in the order dated
31.10.2014 in M.Cr.C. No.15948/2014. That bail
application was filed by the applicant. The Court, while
dismissing the said application, had granted liberty to
the applicant to take out fresh bail application after the
arrest of co-accused, who are middleman and
impersonator on expiry of eight months from the date of
arrest, whichever is earlier. No doubt, the eight months period mentioned in
the said order has not expired, but, as aforesaid, the
middleman - D.P. Yadav and the impersonator -
Sudhanshu Shrivastava have already been arrested.
Notably, after the arrest of Sudhanshu Shrivastava,
whilst in police custody, no attempt has been made by
the Investigating Officer to confront the applicant with
him. In any case, the material referred to in the charge-
sheet filed against the applicant merely points out that
the applicant was in contact with D.P. Yadav. Taking overall view of the matter and because of
the undertaking given by the applicant through counsel
that the applicant will extend full cooperation for
further investigation of the crime including against him,
if any, and that he will punctually appear before the trial
Court to ensure early disposal of the said case and that
he would abide by all the strict conditions as may be
imposed by the Court, we allow this application on
following conditions:- The bail application stands disposed of
 accordingly. Certified copy as per rules.