1. Two banks are embroiled in this litigation, each accusing the other of
negligence in facilitating fraudulent encashment of two forged demand
drafts by an imposter resulting in wrongful loss to one (the drawer as well as
drawee), part of resultant liability having been fastened on the other (the
collecting bank). 2. The Original Application (OA) No. 108/2004 under Section 19 of the
Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 1 of 24 (hereinafter referred to as "the RDDBFI Act") had been instituted before the
Debts Recovery Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as "the DRT") on
22.11.2004 by Punjab National Bank (the first respondent) impleading the
Axis Bank (the petitioner) and one Mr. Dinesh Arora (the second
respondent) as the defendants No. 1 and 2 for recovery of a sum of
₹13,10,044/- along with pendente lite and future interest @ 14.75% per
annum. The OA was allowed by the DRT by final order passed on
30.01.2013 in favour of the applicant Punjab National Bank (PNB) though
apportioning the liability against the petitioner bank (Axis Bank) only to the
extent of one-third of the amount in dispute, issuing recovery certificate,
insofar as Axis Bank is concerned in the sum of ₹8,50,100/- only, holding
the other respondent liable for recovery of a sum of ₹8,50,100/- with simple
interest @12%, incidental expenses and other charges from the date of filing
of the OA till realization. The said order and recovery certificate issued in
its wake by DRT, were challenged by the Axis Bank before Debts Recovery
Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as "the DRAT") through appeal
No. 1252/2013 which, however, was dismissed by order dated 02.07.2014
which is under challenge through the writ petition at hand. 3. The background facts of the controversy are not very complicated.
The second respondent had approached Axis Bank to open an account in its
branch situate at Plot No. 5 and 6, Block - D, Local Shopping Complex,
Pitampura, Delhi in the year 2001, submitting with the bank account
opening form copies of election identity card and PAN card, pursuant to
which savings bank account No. 040010100069720 was opened on
27.10.2001. On 30.10.2001, the said branch of the Axis Bank sent a
communication styled as "letter of thanks" addressed to the second WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 2 of 24 respondent, explained as a precaution "to check the authenticity of the
address furnished". On 03.11.2001, a cheque book was collected by the
second respondent from the said branch. It is stated by Axis Bank that the
cheque book was issued, as a matter of abundant caution, only upon the
production of the original letter of thanks issued on 30.10.2001. 4. On 01.12.2001, the account holder (second respondent) presented
demand draft bearing No. RYS944380 dated 26.11.2001 purporting to have
been issued by PNB through its Ratgal, Kurukshetra (Haryana) branch for
an amount of ₹3,58,700/- with branch Sl. No. 762/01, for clearing in his said
savings bank account. The said demand draft dated 26.11.2001 was
presented on 01.12.2001 by Axis Bank for encashment before the
Centralized Draft Payable Centre (CDPC) of PNB which made the payment
to Axis Bank on the same date whereupon the amount was credited in the
savings bank account of the second respondent. 5. On 10.12.2001, the second respondent presented another demand
draft bearing No. RYS314055 dated 06.12.2001 purporting to have been
issued by Pipli, Kurukshetra (Haryana) branch of PNB for an amount of
₹4,97,400/- with branch Sl. No. 312/01, for clearing in his savings bank
account. The demand draft dated 06.12.2001 was also presented for
encashment by Axis Bank to the CDPC of PNB on 10.12.2001 and payment
was received by Axis Bank thereagainst on the same date whereupon the
amount was credited in the savings bank account of the second respondent. 6. It appears that on 19.12.2001, the Ratgal, Kurukshetra and Pipli
Kurukshetra branches of PNB informed that both the said demand drafts
were not issued by them. The Ratgal branch informed that instead demand
draft bearing No. SGL944381 with branch Sl. No. 762/01 dated 06.12.2001 WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 3 of 24 had been issued in favour of Registrar, Delhi University for an amount of
₹100/-. Similarly, the Pipli branch informed that instead it had issued draft
bearing No. SEC314055 with branch Sl. No. 312/01 dated 06.12.2001 in
favour of National Institute of Technology for the amount of ₹100/-. 7. Upon information to above effect being communicated by PNB to
Axis Bank on 19.12.2001, the available balance in the savings bank account
of the second respondent was frozen and intimation to that effect sent to
PNB by letter dated 27.12.2001. On the date the account was frozen, there
was outstanding balance of ₹1,96,351/- lying in the account of second
respondent. 8. It appears that PNB lodged a First Information Report (FIR) with
SHO, Police Station I.P. Estate, New Delhi on 29.12.2001. There was some
confusion as to the jurisdiction. Eventually, PNB lodged a criminal
complaint in the court of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, New Delhi on
21.08.2003, the matter arising wherefrom is stated to be pending. 9. The PNB issued a legal notice on 28.01.2002 to Axis Bank
demanding refund of ₹8,56,100/-, it being the total value of the two forged
demand drafts, attributing, inter alia, negligence on the part of the noticee,
with the averments that RBI guidelines have not been followed while
allowing the savings bank account to be opened without completion of KYC
(Know Your Customer) norms, in that no introduction from a respectable
person known to the bank branch had been secured. 10. The Axis Bank resisted the claim of PNB by reply dated 18.03.2002,
inter alia, taking the position that there was no negligence on its part
claiming protection under Section 131 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. 11. Since Axis Bank did not comply with the demand in the legal notice WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 4 of 24 dated 28.01.2002, PNB filed the OA seeking recovery from Axis Bank as
also the account holder (the second respondent) claiming that they were
jointly and severally liable. The OA was resisted by Axis Bank, amongst
others, on the ground of the claim being time-barred and the amount sought
to be recovered being not within the jurisdiction of DRT under RDDBFI
Act. It also argued that since the claim arose out of an alleged fraudulent
transaction, it would not fall within the purview of "debt", as defined in
RDDBFI Act. It seems that the account holder (second respondent) did not
appear and thus, the proceedings against him were concluded ex-parte. 12. The claim of PNB was contested by the Axis Bank. The plea of
limitation bar was rejected on the reasoning that the OA had been presented
on 22.11.2004 within three years of the dates on which the two demand
drafts had been sent for collection. The objection as to pecuniary
jurisdiction was repelled by referring to the element of interest and other
charges which also had been claimed over and above the principal amount.
The argument of the DRT not being the proper forum to decide a claim
arising out of alleged fraudulent transaction was rejected on the basis of
decision of this court in the case of SBI v. Raman Kapur, 157 (2009) Delhi
Law Times 12. The claim of the Axis Bank regarding protection under Section 131 Negotiable Instruments Act was examined alongside PNB‟s
plea of its protection under Section 85 . The DRT held both the banks to be
liable of negligence and consequently apportioned the liability of Axis Bank
to the extent of one-third. It must, however, be added here that this being
the conclusion reached in Para 18 of the final order, in the operative part, the
DRT failed to bring clarity by omitting to add that the liability of the
appellant herein would be restricted to one-third of the decretal amount. 13. The Axis Bank filed appeal before DRAT but, as indicated earlier,
unsuccessfully. 14. The appellant assails the orders passed by the DRT and DRAT
through the writ petition at hand primarily on the basis of two submissions;
first, that the claim of PNB having arisen out of fraudulent transaction
concerning the two demand drafts, it could not have been pressed as a claim
under RDDBFI Act before the DRT and, second, that though there may have
been some want of care on the part of the appellant bank in allowing the
account to be opened, this circumstance alone is not sufficient to attribute
negligence on its part concerning the transactions respecting the two bank
drafts since the circumstances antecedent thereto, or prevalent at the relevant
point of time, were not so out of ordinary course as would have aroused
doubts impelling inquiry to be made at its end. In the context of the second
submission, the appellant bank argues that in the face of clear finding in the
impugned order that PNB had not been vigilant (and consequently had been
negligent) in remitting the value of the drafts when presented for clearing,
liability could not have been fastened on the collecting bank. 15. There is no dispute, insofar as the appellant and the first respondent
herein are concerned, that the two demand drafts which gave rise to the
claim before DRT were forged instruments. The argument of the appellant
was that a claim based on such facts cannot be subject matter of an
application before DRT under RDDBFI Act on the reasoning that the
amount claimed due cannot be treated as "debt", within the meaning of the
expression defined in Section 2(g) . The clause defining the expression
"debt" reads as under:- 16. Per contra, the first respondent (PNB ) contends that the amounts
were remitted erroneously since the forgery could not be immediately
detected. It argues that since there was no obligation to pay against forged
instruments, the amount can be recovered as a "debt". 17. In United Bank of India v. Debts Recovery Tribunal (1999) 4 SCC 69,
the challenge was to the conclusion of the High Court that the DRT did not
have the jurisdiction in a claim of an "undetermined sum". The Supreme
Court ruled that the expression "debt" has to be given the widest amplitude
to mean "any liability" which is alleged by a bank as due from any person
during the course of any business activity undertaken by the bank either in
cash or otherwise, whether secured or unsecured, whether payable under a
decree or order of any court or otherwise and legally recoverable on the date
of the application. The key words, thus, are "legally recoverable". 18. This court had the occasion to examine the width and scope of the
expression "debt", as defined in RDDBFI Act, albeit in a slightly different
fact-situation, in the case of M/s Panjwani Packaging Ltd. & Ors. v.
Allahabad Bank , writ petition (civil) 1803/2015 (decided on 25.02.2015)
wherein it was held as under:- 19. Reliance has been placed on the judgment rendered by a Ld. Single
Judge of this court in the case reported as SBI v. Raman Kapur, 157 (2009)
Delhi Law Times 12 to argue that DRT would have no jurisdiction to
entertain the claim of the bank founded on the allegation that it was a
liability arising out of fraud played upon it. In that case, the bank had filed a
civil suit for recovery of the amount that had been allegedly siphoned off by
one of its employees in collusion with other defendant playing fraud. The
objection raised to the maintainability of the suit before the High Court
exercising its original jurisdiction and praying for its transfer under Section
17 of RDDBFI Act to the DRT was rejected with observations to the
following effect:- 20. With respect to the Ld. Single Judge, we disagree. As concluded by
us in the case of M/s Panjwani Packaging Ltd. & Ors. v. Allahabad Bank (supra) through observations extracted above, the value of the demand drafts
was remitted by the PNB to the Axis Bank for being credited in the account
of the second respondent "by mistake", inasmuch as the demand drafts
against which such remittances were made were forged and fabricated
instruments in which respect PNB owed no liability to pay. The money
having reached in the account of the second respondent, as a result of the
remittance made by mistake, the credit obtained by the latter amounted to
unjust enrichment. It is inconsequential whether the mistake occurred
inadvertently or was a result of deliberate acts indulged in with intent to
deceive or defraud. The credit for the money obtained from erroneous
remittance being a wrongful gain, it is the liability of the person receiving it
wrongfully to return it in terms of Section 72 of the Contract Act. 21. The expression "debt" as used in RDDBFI Act would, thus, include
liability arising out of fraudulent transaction causing wrongful loss to a bank
or financial institution. It is not correct to contend that if a cause is founded
on the allegation that a debt or liability has been incurred due to fraud or by WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 9 of 24 way of deceit, the recovery proceedings cannot be brought to a forum in the
nature of DRT under RDDBFI Act. The amounts represented by the
aforementioned transactions, thus, relate to a liability arising out of the
business activity undertaken by the bank, one which is "legally recoverable" 22. The Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 does not define the expression
"(demand) draft". It defines, in Section 6 , a negotiable instrument
commonly known as "cheque" as "a bill of exchange drawn on a specified
banker", such expression also including the electronic image of a truncated
cheque and a cheque in the electronic form. The expression "bill of
exchange", in turn, is defined, in Section 5 , as "an instrument in writing
containing an unconditional order, signed by a maker, directing a certain
person to pay a certain sum of money only to, or to the order of, a certain
person or to the bearer of the instrument". 23. The word "draft" is used in the Negotiable Instruments Act in Section
85-A (in the context of discharge from liability) in the following terms:- 24. Section 131-A was inserted in Negotiable Instruments Act later so as
to extend the provisions contained in Chapter XIV ("Of crossed cheques") to
instruments in the nature of a "draft" as defined in Section 85-A , "as if the
draft were a cheque". Demand Draft, also known as bank draft, and at times WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 10 of 24 described as "Banker‟s cheque" or "pay order", are species of the genre
generally known as "cheque". Demand drafts, or bank drafts or banker‟s
cheque or pay order, are generally issued by a bank acknowledging receipt
of the value and promising to pay the same to the person in whose favour, or
to whose order, the money represented by it is to be paid ("payee"). 25. Section 7 of Negotiable Instruments Act renders the bank issuing an
instrument in the nature of a draft to be the "drawer" and since it is an order
to another office of the same bank called upon to pay, the same very bank is
also the "drawee" in its respect. In the event of the order in the draft being
honoured, the same bank becomes the "acceptor", an expression defined by Section 7 in following terms:- 26. The appellant claims protection under Section 131 of Negotiable
Instruments Act which reads as under:- Explanation I.--A banker receives payment of a crossed
 cheque for a customer within the meaning of this section
 notwithstanding that he credits his customer‟s account with the
 amount of the cheque before receiving payment thereof. Explanation II.--It shall be the duty of the banker who receives
 payment based on an electronic image of a truncated cheque
 held with him, to verify the prima facie genuineness of the
 cheque to be truncated and any fraud, forgery or tampering
 apparent on the face of the instrument that can be verified with
 due diligence and ordinary care." [emphasis supplied] 27. A demand draft or a cheque is a bill of exchange payable on demand.
In order to secure payment against such instruments, they are commonly
presented in the usual course of business by the payee to the drawee bank
through the bank where the payee holds an account. The bank which is
bound to pay against the instrument is the agent of its drawer. Similarly, the
collecting bank which presents the instrument on behalf of its customer acts,
for purposes of collection, as an agent of the latter. In that capacity, the
collecting bank is entitled to all the rights of an agent against his principal
and, thus, can claim indemnity from the customer on whose behalf it may
have presented the instrument which is returned dishonoured such that it can
debit him to the extent of value of the dishonoured instrument or with any
amount for which it has been found liable to a true owner. The collecting
bank is not liable where it acts reasonably and does not indulge in any
negligence respecting the transaction concerning wrongful presentation or
receives value of a forged instrument. 28. As mentioned earlier, by virtue of Section 131-A , the afore-quoted
provision contained in Section 131 (falling in Chapter XIV) applies to a case
of demand draft as well, "as if the draft were a cheque". Section 131 is a
protection meant for a collecting bank. Since the collecting bank generally
acts as an agent of its customer, it is not expected to take a direct WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 12 of 24 responsibility for the negotiable instrument deposited with it for presentation
to the bank on which it is drawn. Nonetheless, it is expected to be vigilant
against forgery or attempts to deceive or defraud. In order to show that the
collecting bank acted in good faith and was not negligent, it must be in a
position to confirm the genuineness of the identity of the customer on whose
behalf it purports to collect. Generally speaking, such scrutiny of the
identity of the customer would be undertaken when his request for account
to be opened is entertained. Though the second explanation to Section 131 quoted above relates to cheques presented electronically, it provides some
guidance as to the extent of scrutiny of the negotiable instrument presented
through it. To fasten the responsibility for cheating on account of
fabrication, the forgery or tampering must be such as can be detected from
the face of the instrument by applying ordinary care and diligence. 29. The question as to the extent to which a collecting banker can be held
liable for wrongful encashment of negotiable instruments has been subject
matter of debate in a number of cases. 30. In Brahma Shum Shere Jung Bahadur and another v. Chartered Bank
of India, Australia and China and others , AIR 1956 Cal 399, an account-
holder had brought a suit for recovery, inter alia, against his own banker for
the wrongful loss suffered as a result of the account having been debited
against a cheque presented by another person after its fraudulent alteration
into a cheque for a large sum of money. The bank contested the claim
essentially claiming protection under Section 131 of Negotiable Instruments
Act, also seeking to attribute negligence of the owner (the customer). While
rejecting the claim against the bank, on facts, holding that it was entitled to
debit the amount to the account of the plaintiff since the cheque at the time WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 13 of 24 of presentation for encashment did not disclose any traces of alterations or
obliterations, the payment being "payment in due course" and it being
according to the "apparent tenor of the cheque", the mere circumstance of a
different handwriting appearing in the body of the cheque not being one
"which could have aroused suspicion in the minds of the officials of bank",
it was observed, in the context of Section 131 , as under:- [emphasis supplied] 31. The court added that the question as to whether a bank is guilty of
negligence depends on the particulars of each case though the onus of
proving "good faith" and "absence of negligence" has to be on the banker
claiming such a protection. 32. In the case reported as Indian Overseas Bank v. Industrial Chain
Concern (1990) 1 SCC 484, one „S‟ was Manager of the respondent firm
„Industrial Chain Concern‟. He, representing himself as the sole proprietor
of the firm, had approached the Manager of a branch of the appellant Bank
for opening of a current deposit account in the name of the said firm. As the
Manager of the Bank knew „S‟, being his erstwhile classmate, he did not
check up the address given and instead gave the introduction and on that
basis an ordinary current deposit account was opened by Account Opening WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 14 of 24 Form under the title Industrial Chain Concern on the cash deposit of `100.
The case of Industrial Chain Concern was that „S‟, as its Manager, had
received drafts and cheques amounting to `26,383.49 sent by the parties to
whom the firm had supplied goods and that he, after opening the said
„fictitious account‟ in the aforesaid branch of the Bank, had paid in the
stolen drafts and cheques and the Bank collected them and had allowed „S‟
to withdraw the same thereby defrauding the respondent. The firm filed a
suit for recovery of the said amount with interest alleging the Bank had been
guilty of negligence and conversion. The trial court decreed the suit and the
High Court dismissed the Bank‟s appeal. 33. In the appeal before the Supreme Court, the appellant bank claimed
immunity on the ground that it had not been negligent either at the stage of
opening of the account or when the cheques were presented for collection.
The court ruled on the issue of "standard of care" at the stage of opening an
account in the following manner:- 27... It is a settled law that the test of negligence for the
 purpose of section 131 of the Act is whether the transaction of
 paying in any given cheque coupled with the circumstances
 antecedent and present is so out of the ordinary course that it
 ought to arouse doubts in the banker's mind and cause him to
 make inquiries. ... The banker is bound to make inquiries when
 there is anything to rouse suspicion that the cheque is being
 wrongfully dealt with in being paid into the customer's account.
 However, the banker is not called upon to be abnormally
 suspicious ..." [emphasis supplied] 34. Quoting with approval, the English decision reported as
Commissioner of Taxation v. English, Scottish and Australian Bank, 1920
AC 683 for observing that question of bank‟s negligence in opening the
account may not be associated with the question of negligence in collecting
cheques for the customers paid into such accounts, though the circumstances
connected with the opening of an account "may shed light on the question
whether there was negligence in collecting a cheque", and following the
ruling of House of Lords in Lloyds Bank Ltd. v. E.B. Savory and Company ,
1933 AC 201: 1932 All ER Rep 106: 38 Com Cas 115, the court ruled thus:- [emphasis supplied] 35. In Kerala State Co-operative Marketing Federation v. State Bank of
India & Ors., II (2004) BC 1 (SC), the facts were similar to those of the case
at hand. The bank account had been opened with the respondent bank by a
fictitious person. A cheque stolen during postal transit had been altered so
as to be read as payable to the account-holder. The cheque was deposited
whereupon amount was collected by the respondent bank. When the fraud
came to light, the balance in the account in question was restored by the WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 17 of 24 bank to the plaintiff. In due course, the drawee bank sued for recovery to
the extent of wrongful loss. The collecting bank contested, inter alia,
pleading protection under Section 131 of Negotiable Instruments Act. This
plea was upheld by the High Court. The claimant carried appeal before the
Supreme Court, inter alia, alleging that the collecting bank had not
discharged its burden so as to show it had acted in good faith and without
negligence. The Supreme Court culled out the principles governing the
liability of a collecting banker (in Para 10 of the reported judgment) as
under:- [emphasis supplied] WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 19 of 24 36. In the case of Kerala State Co-operative Marketing Federation (supra), on facts, it was held that the bank was liable since the transactions
concerning the opening of the account, deposit of the forged instrument and
its withdrawl took place in close proximity of each other so as to be treated
as "all part of the same transaction", in that the account-holder had given an
absolutely vague address; the bank had made no inquiry in such regard or as
to the creditworthiness of the account-holder, and further, no inquiry was
made by the bank with the introducer after the forgery had been brought to
light and notice for stop payment issued. 37. Both the DRT and DRAT have returned concurrent findings of fact
that the appellant bank had been negligent at the stage of allowing the
account to be opened by the second respondent. No introduction from a
known customer of the bank was obtained. It appears that the documents
submitted as proof of identity were not verified. They have turned out to be
fake. Clearly, there was no due inquiry as to the identity or genuineness of
the person who opened the account. The plea that the bank, as per the
practice adopted, had taken care not to issue the cheque book till the
customer appeared with the original letter of thanks sent to the declared
address is insubstantial. This, by no stretch of reasoning, can be accepted as
due inquiry at the threshold for entertaining a new customer. 38. To deny to the appellant (the collecting bank) the statutory protection
of Section 131 of Negotiable Instruments Act, what has to be proved is that
it had failed to exercise due diligence or act in good faith so as to be
attributed negligence at the time of making over of the negotiable
instruments in question for collection to the drawer/drawee bank. Unless, of
course, there is material to show sufficient connection between the opening WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 20 of 24 of the account and the collection of the money against such instruments such
that the transactions involving the collection turn out to be so out of ordinary
course that it ought to have aroused doubts in the mind of the collecting
bank, liability cannot be fastened on the latter. 39. It is pertinent to note that in Industrial Chain Concern (supra) while
holding the bank to be "not negligent", the Supreme Court (in Para 37)
observed thus:- 40. The factual matrix of the case at hand shows that the account was
opened on 27.10.2001 and the first forged demand draft was presented for WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 21 of 24 collection one month thereafter i.e. on 01.12.2001. The second forged draft
was similarly presented ten days thereafter i.e. on 10.12.2001. While the
credits against the two demand drafts had been received (on the same date as
of presentation in each case), the account-holder (second respondent) having
obtained a cheque book on 30.10.2001 started making withdrawals. Copy of
the statement of account (Annexure P-8) shows that initially cash
withdrawals were made in small amounts of `2,000/-, `3,000/-, `4,000/- or
so in several instalments, followed by some large withdrawals against
cheques on 04.12.2001, 05.12.2001 and 12.12.2001. The forgery was
detected by PNB on 19.12.2001 and the appellant bank was informed eight
days thereafter i.e. on 27.12.2001. The account was frozen with outstanding
balance of `1,96,351/-, immediately upon such intimation being received. 41. Whilst we agree that the appellant had been negligent in allowing
account to be opened, we are unable to locate on the record any material to
show that it had failed to exercise due care in presenting the two demand
drafts for collection to PNB. There is no proximate connection between the
opening of the account or the deposits of the forged instruments so as to
treat the said events as intimately associated with each other. There is no
undue hurry shown by the fraudster in making the withdrawals. It is not the
case of PNB that the forgery could have been detected by the collecting
bank from the face of the instruments. The fact that the forgery could not be
detected by the Centralized Draft Payable Centre of PNB itself shows that
the collecting bank could not have entertained any doubts as to the
genuineness at the time of receiving the drafts from the customer or for
making them over to the drawee bank for collection. The DRAT has found WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 22 of 24 PNB also to have been negligent in these transactions. There is reference to
evidence indicating that draft forms had been lost by PNB in some incident
of dacoity. With this as the backdrop, the officials at the clearing house
representing the PNB would have been on guard and, thus, clearly neglected
their responsibility of due scrutiny. The hurried manner in which
remittances were made to the appellant bank on the same date as of the
respective presentation of the two forged instruments speaks volumes as to
the failure of claimant PNB to exercise appropriate standards of care. 42. It needs to be noted that the appellant bank gave credits and allowed
withdrawal of the money only after receiving the credits from PNB. With
no input available to the collecting bank as to the possibility of forgery,
there was no reason for it to be abnormally suspicious or to question the
customer as to his title to the money represented by the demand drafts. In
receiving the demand drafts from the customer and in presenting it to the
bank on which they purported to have been drawn, it was only acting in the
course of its banking business as the agent for such customer. In absence of
any nexus between the two stages of the process, negligence cannot be
attributed to the appellant in the context of collection of the money against
the forged instrument only on the basis of the fact that there had been
negligence on its part in allowing the account to be opened. 43. In the result, we are of the view that the petitioner bank has been
wrongly denied the benefit of immunity as a collecting banker under Section
131 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. We find the conclusions reached by
the two authorities below on the question of complicity of the petitioner
bank in wrongful loss suffered by the first respondent to be perverse. The
findings to such effect rendered by the two forums below, and the liability WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 23 of 24 fastened on the petitioner in wake thereof are manifestly erroneous and,
thus, liable to be set aside. We order accordingly. Needless to add that the
DRT shall appropriately rectify the recovery certificate in light of this result. 44. Before we part, we must add that the authorities below have failed to
take note of the fact that there is a possibility of part of the loss suffered by
the first respondent being made good from out of the outstanding balance in
the bank account opened by the second respondent with the petitioner bank
on the basis of fake identity. The said account was frozen, upon intimation
of the forgery, on 27.12.2001. As per the material on record, on the date of
the account being frozen, there was an outstanding balance of `1,96,351/-
lying therein. The said amount would have earned interest over the period.
The said money forms part of the money wrongfully obtained in the said
account. It rightfully belongs to the first respondent. The bank is directed to
remit the outstanding balance in the said account (inclusive of up-to-date
interest) to the first respondent forthwith, under intimation to the DRT (and
Recovery Officer). 45. The writ petition is disposed of in above terms. R.K.GAUBA
 (JUDGE)

 S. RAVINDRA BHAT
 (JUDGE)
MARCH 20, 2015
ik WP(C) 6201/2014 Page 24 of 24