In order to appreciate the factual as well as legal

 aspect involved in this petition, brief facts, is to be taken first. (a) Cr. Misc. no.41892 of 2010 was filed by Shishu

 Nag Gupta, Deepak Kumar Gupta @ Deepak Gupta, Saroj Devi

 and Namita Shankar, who have been arrayed as an accused in

 connection with Saharsa P. S. Case no.186 of 2009 challenging the

 order dated 25.03.2010, passed by the learned Chief Judicial

 Magistrate, Saharsa, taking cognizance of an offence under Section 307 of the I.P.C. along with other allied Sections and 2 directed the petitioners to face trial therefor. The aforesaid petition

was filed on 22.11.2010 and subsequently, was heard and disposed

of having been allowed in part vide order dated 10.05.2012 with

the following observation that "presence of prima facie case is

suggestive of the fact that there has been scrutiny of the material

placed in accordance with Section 173 Cr.P.C. through judicial

approach to proceed with the trial. That means to say, there should

have been proper scrutiny of the material which could justify the

step taken up by the trial court. From the order impugned, it is

evident that the learned lower court had not considered those

aspect to justify at least application of Section 307 I.P.C., more

particularly over allegation in consonance with the injury report.

Therefore, the impugned order is modified to that extent.

Consequent thereupon, instant petition is allowed in terms

thereof". (b) Subsequently thereof, petitioner Prem Kumar

Agrawal (informant of Saharsa P. S. Case no.186 of 2009) has

filed instant petition to nullify the order dated 10.05.2012 passed

in Cr. Misc. no.41892 of 2010 on the ground that inspite he being

informant of Saharsa (Town) P. S. Case no.186 of 2009, he has

not been impleaded as opposite party. It has also been submitted

that the petitioners of Cr. Misc. no.41892 of 2010 (Opposite Party 3 nos.2 to 5 of instant petition) had played fraud upon Court by

concealing the fact that till then, the case was already committed

to the Court of Sessions and the date on which the Cr. Misc.

No.41892 of 2010 was heard, all the prosecution witnesses were

examined, statement under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. had already

been recorded and after examining the DW, the defence case was

also closed fixing the trial for hearing argument under Sessions

Trial No.210 of 2010 pending before F.T.C.-IIIrd, Saharsa. (c) It has further been averred that appreciation of

facts as well as application of judicial mind varies stage to stage.

Had there been divulgence of the fact that defence case had

already been closed and the matter is pending for argument before

the learned trial Court, then in that event, certainly the Cr. Misc.

no.41892 of 2010 would not have disposed of as per finding

recorded under para-10 of the order dated 10.05.2012. As such,

there has been intentionally, knowingly concealment of fact with

ulterior motive and by such dubious activity, the order has been

obtained from the Court by playing fraud and on account thereof,

the order dated 10.05.2012 passed in Cr. Misc. no.41892 of 2010

is fit to be recalled/ modified/ rescind/ strailed. 2. Petitioners of Cr. Misc. no.41892 of 2010, who

are opposite party nos.2 to 5 of instant petition were noticed and 4 they appeared, filed counter affidavit and contested the same. As

per the pleading of the opposite party, certified copy of order of

cognizance was obtained while the case was pending before the

Sessions Court after commitment and on account thereof, they

were of the view that this fact would be automatically taken into

consideration. Moreover, the same was disclosed to the earlier

engaged counsel and it was mistake on his part in getting the fact

leftout. Therefore, neither there was intentional laches on the part

of O.P. nos. 2 to 5 nor concealment of fact. It has also been

submitted that opposite party have acted fairly as well as came up

with clean hand and on account thereof, the order dated

10.05.2012 passed in Cr. Misc. no.41892 of 2010 attracts no

interference. 3. It has been submitted on behalf of petitioner that

whenever party comes before the Court asking for particular relief,

it is expected at his end to aver his pleading correctly and in

likewise manner to make submission so that court should

scrutinize the matter and appreciate the same and give its finding

logical thereto in its correct appreciation. Concealment of

necessary fact that too intentional one as, the opposite party nos.2

to 5 have their appearance before the Sessions Court even before

filing of Cr. Misc. No.41892 of 2010 at least would have enabled 5 the Court to know that after having been committed, the case is

pending before the Court of Sessions. It has further been submitted

that the day on which Cr. Misc. no.41892 of 2010 was heard, the

defence case was already closed and the Sessions Trial was fixed

for argument. After examination of witnesses, now, the evidences

having on the record is to be taken into consideration for the

purpose of deciding the trial by way of pronouncing judgment.

That being so, the order of cognizance is found left far behind

having no relevance, because of the fact that the order of

cognizance, ordinarily, so far as police case is concerned, is based

upon the material submitted by the police in terms of Section 173 of the Cr.P.C. while the judgment relating to Sessions Trial

happens to be based upon appreciation of evidence led by the

prosecution as well as defence in terms of Chapter-XVIII of the Cr.P.C . Had there been non-concealment of aforesaid fact, then in

that event, certainly the order dated 10.05.2012 would not have

been passed. 4. Therefore, it has been submitted that there was

wilful, intentional act of opposite party nos.2 to 5, whereunder

they concealed the aforesaid factual as well as legal event and

their action denote the act of fraud whereunder they succeeded in

getting the order dated 10.05.2012 in connection with Cr. Misc. 6 no.41892 of 2010. To justify his submission, learned counsel for

the petitioner relied upon 2011 (14) SCC 770. The learned

Additional Public Prosecutor followed the submission. 5. On the other end, the learned counsel for the

opposite party nos.2 to 5 have resisted the submission raised on

behalf of petitioner stating the fact that informant is not a

necessary party to be impleaded whenever an order is subject to

challenge before the Superior Court relating to Police case.

Therefore, petitioner rightly not been impleaded as a party. Then,

it has been submitted that opposite party nos.2 to 5 are lay litigants

having no access to law and on account thereof, could not perceive

its impact although had disclosed the learned counsel regarding

stage of the case. Opposite party nos.2 to 5 in the aforesaid

background were convinced that the stage of the trial certainly

been incorporated and detailed by his conducting counsel. Any

deficiency on that very score could not be treated as wilful,

intentional act of opposite party nos.2 to 5 rather it was at the end

of the conducting lawyer and for that Opposite party nos.2 to 5

could not be penalized. 6. Moreover, referring Section 362 of the Cr.P.C., it

has been submitted that once the Criminal Court including the

High Court delivers judgment then in that event the aforesaid 7 judgment goes out of purview of the Court, because of the fact that

Court ceases to be in seisin of the matter. Save and except

correcting the same to the extent as provided thereunder. Not only

this, the judgment, even if found to be obtained by means of fraud

cannot be adjudicated upon by the same Court rather the

grievances, if any, is to be redressed by way of filing appeal/

revision before the Superior Court and for that referred 2009

Cr.L.J. Page-355. So submitted that instead of filing instant

petition, petitioner should have moved before the Hon'ble Apex

Court. 7. Record of Cr. Misc. No.41892 of 2010 is

available. After going through the contents of the petition which

run upto 15 Paragraphs, it is apparent there from that save and

except, challenging the order of cognizance and the grounds

therefor neither the pendency of the case has been detailed nor the

stage of the case. It is also evident there from that informant has

not been impleaded as a party. 8. Neither in Criminal Law nor in Civil Law

prescribes any form of guidelines regarding conduct of the parties

who wish to came before the Court for adjudication. However, the

aforesaid theme has been perceived by the Hon'ble Apex Court

in S. P. Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath reported in 1994 8 AIR SC Page-853, wherein it has been held:- The courts of law are meant for imparting justice

 between the parties. One who comes to the court,

 must come with clean hands. We are constrained to

 say that more often than not, process of the court is

 being abused. Property-grabbers, tax-evaders,

 bank-loan-dodgers and other unscrupulous persons

 from all walks of life find the court process a

 convenient lever to retain the, illegal-gains

 indefinitely. We have no hesitation to say that a

 person whose case is based on falsehood, has no

 right to approach the Court. He can be summarily 9 thrown out at any stage of the litigation‖.

 That means to say party is under obligation to come

with clean hands be fair and being so, the opposite party nos.2 to 5

while approaching this Court Cr. Misc. No.41892 of 2010 must

have narrated at least the stage of the case. It is needless to say that

application of judicial mind differs from stage to stage. That

means to say the mode of appreciation of materials at the stage of

taking cognizance is different from the stage of appreciation of

materials at the stage of framing of charge, appreciation of

evidence during course of trial is different at the stage of

pronouncement of judgment. The statement recorded under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. has got no relevance during course of

conduction of trial, save and except, for the purpose of

corroboration or contradiction and at the time of delivering

judgment, the appreciation of the evidence adduced during course

of trial happens to be the main issue for consideration being the

substantive evidence. Opposite party nos.2 to 5 have not

challenged that the day on which the order dated 10.05.2012 was

passed in connection with Cr. Misc. no.41892 of 2010, the trial

was fixed for argument after closure of the defence case. In the

aforesaid background, it is apparent that there happens to be

intentional concealment of the fact by Opposite party nos.2 to 5 at 10 their hands as well as on account thereof, misrepresented before

the Bench regarding the actual affair by such activity. Opposite

party nos.2 to 5 kept the Court in dark as well as duped the Court,

whereunder succeeded in snatching the order dated 10.05.2012

under Cr. Misc. no.41892 of 2010. 9. The effect of fraud and its impact as well as the

remedy has been considered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the S.

P. Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath reported in 1994 AIR

SC Page-853 (Supra) in following terms:- 10. In Patel Bhagubhai Ranchhodas v. Bai

Arvinda reported in A.I.R.1937 Calcutta Page-334, it has been

held:- 11. In Nalluswami Reddi v. Nallammal reported

in A.I.R. (30) 1943 Madras Page-392, it has been held as

 ―No Court subordinate to the High Court has any

 inherent jurisdiction to review its own judgment

 save in a few circumstances such as where there has

 been abuse of the process of Court, or fraud played

 upon the Court, or where petty clerical errors or

 mistakes have been made‖. 12. In A. V. Papayya Sastry and others v. Government of A. P. and others reported in (2007) 4 SCC

Page-221, it has been held:- The clear implication of the distinction is that an

action to set aside a judgment cannot be brought on

the ground that it has been decided wrongly,

namely, that on the merits, the decision was one

which should not have been rendered, but it can be

set aside, if the court was imposed upon or tricked

into giving the judgment. 25. It has been said: fraud and justice

never dwell together (fraus et jus nunquam

cohabitant); or fraud and deceit ought to benefit

none (fraus et dolus nemini patrocinari debent). 26. Fraud may be defined as an act of

deliberate deception with the design of securing

some unfair or undeserved benefit by taking undue

advantage of another. In fraud one gains at the loss

of another. Even most solemn proceedings stand

vitiated if they are actuated by fraud. Fraud is thus

an extrinsic collateral act which vitiates all judicial

acts, whether in rem or in personam. The principle

of ―finality of litigation‖ cannot be stretched to the

extent of an absurdity that it can be utilised as an

engine of oppression by dishonest and fraudulent

litigants. 27. In S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath (1994) 1 SCC 1 this Court had an 14 occasion to consider the doctrine of fraud and the

effect thereof on the judgment obtained by a party.

In that case, one A by a registered deed,

relinquished all his rights in the suit property in

favour of C who sold the property to B. Without

disclosing that fact, A filed a suit for possession

against B and obtained preliminary decree. During

the pendency of an application for final decree, B

came to know about the fact of release deed by A in

favour of C. He, therefore, contended that the

decree was obtained by playing fraud on the court

and was a nullity. The trial court upheld the

contention and dismissed the application. The High

Court, however, set aside the order of the trial

court, observing that ―there is no legal duty cast

upon the plaintiff to come to court with a true case

and prove it by true evidence‖. B approached this

Court. 28. Allowing the appeal, setting aside

the judgment of the High Court and describing the

observations of the High Court as ―wholly

perverse‖, Kuldip Singh, J. stated: (SCC p. 5, para 5)

―The courts of law are meant for imparting justice

between the parties. One who comes to the court, 15 must come with clean hands. We are constrained to

say that more often than not, process of the court is

being abused. Property grabbers, tax-evaders,

bank-loan-dodgers and other unscrupulous persons

from all walks of life find the court process a

convenient lever to retain the illegal gains

indefinitely. We have no hesitation to say that a

person, whose case is based on falsehood, has no

right to approach the court. He can be summarily

thrown out at any stage of the litigation.‖

(emphasis supplied) 29. The Court proceeded to state: (SCC

p. 5, para 6)

 ―A litigant, who approaches the court, is

bound to produce all the documents executed by him

which are relevant to the litigation. If he withholds

a vital document in order to gain advantage on the

other side then he would be guilty of playing fraud

on the court as well as on the opposite party.‖ 30. The Court concluded: (SCC p. 5,

para 5)

 ―The principle of ‗finality of litigation' cannot

be pressed to the extent of such an absurdity that it

becomes an engine of fraud in the hands of

dishonest litigants.‖ 16 31. In Indian Bank v. Satyam Fibres

(India) (P) Ltd. (1996) 5 SCC 550: JT 1996 (7) SC

135 referring to Lazarus Estates Lazarus Estates

Ltd. V. Beasley, (1956) 1 All ER 341 : (1956) 1 QB

702: (1956) 2 WLR 502 (CA) and Smith v. East

Elloe Rural Distt. Council 1956 AC 336: (1956) 1

All ER 855: (1956) 2 WLR 888 (HL) this Court

stated: (SCC pp. 562-63, para 22)

 ―22. The judiciary in India also possesses

inherent power, specially under Section 151 CPC,

to recall its judgment or order if it is obtained by

fraud on court. In the case of fraud on a party to the

suit or proceedings, the court may direct the

affected party to file a separate suit for setting aside

the decree obtained by fraud. Inherent powers are

powers which are resident in all courts, especially

of superior jurisdiction. These powers spring not

from legislation but from the nature and the

constitution of the tribunals or courts themselves so

as to enable them to maintain their dignity, secure

obedience to its process and rules, protect its

officers from indignity and wrong and to punish

unseemly behaviour. This power is necessary for the

orderly administration of the court's business.‖

(emphasis supplied) 17 32. In United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rajendra Singh (2000) 3 SCC 581: 2000 SCC

(Cri) 726: JT (2000) 3 SC 151 by practising fraud

upon the Insurance Company, the claimant obtained

an award of compensation from the Motor Accident

Claims Tribunal. On coming to know of fraud, the

Insurance Company applied for recalling of the

award. The Tribunal, however, dismissed the

petition on the ground that it had no power to

review its own award. The High Court confirmed

the order. The Company approached this Court. 33. Allowing the appeal and setting

aside the orders, this Court stated: (SCC pp. 587-

88, paras 15-17)

 ―15. It is unrealistic to expect the appellant

Company to resist a claim at the first instance on

the basis of the fraud because the appellant

Company had at that stage no knowledge about the

fraud allegedly played by the claimants. If the

Insurance Company comes to know of any dubious

concoction having been made with the sinister

object of extracting a claim for compensation, and if

by that time the award was already passed, it would

not be possible for the Company to file a statutory

appeal against the award. Not only because of the 18 bar of limitation to file the appeal but the

consideration of the appeal even if the delay could

be condoned, would be limited to the issues

formulated from the pleadings made till then. 16. Therefore, we have no doubt that the remedy to

move for recalling the order on the basis of the

newly-discovered facts amounting to fraud of high

degree, cannot be foreclosed in such a situation. No

court or tribunal can be regarded as powerless to

recall its own order if it is convinced that the order

was wangled through fraud or misrepresentation of

such a dimension as would affect the very basis of

the claim. 17. The allegation made by the appellant Insurance

Company, that the claimants were not involved in

the accident which they described in the claim

petitions, cannot be brushed aside without further

probe into the matter, for the said allegation has not

been specifically denied by the claimants when they

were called upon to file objections to the

applications for recalling of the awards. The

claimants then confined their resistance to the plea

that the application for recall is not legally

maintainable. Therefore, we strongly feel that the

claim must be allowed to be resisted, on the ground 19 of fraud now alleged by the Insurance Company. If

 we fail to afford to the Insurance Company an

 opportunity to substantiate their contentions it

 might certainly lead to a serious miscarriage of

 justice.‖

 (emphasis supplied) 46. Keeping in view totality of facts and

 attending circumstances including serious

 allegations of fraud said to have been committed by

 the landowners in collusion with officers of the

 respondent Port Trust and the Government, report

 submitted by the Central Bureau of Investigation

 (CBI), prima facie showing commission of fraud

 and initiation of criminal proceedings, etc. if the

 High Court was pleased to recall the earlier order

 by issuing directions to the authorities to pass an

 appropriate order afresh in accordance with law, it

 cannot be said that there is miscarriage of justice

 which calls for interference in exercise of

 discretionary and equitable jurisdiction of this

 Court. We, therefore, hold that this is not a fit case

 which calls for our intervention under Article 136 of

 the Constitution. We, therefore, decline to do so‖. 13. In Deepa Gourang Murdeshwar Katre v. Principal, V.A.V. College of Arts and others reported in (2007)

14 SCC 108, it has been observed that:- 15. In Vishnu Agarwal v. State of Uttar Pradesh and

another reported in (2011) 14 SCC Page-813, it has been observed

as:- The section is based on an acknowledged principle

of law that once a matter is finally disposed of by a

court, the said court in the absence of a specific

statutory provision becomes functus officio and

disentitled to entertain a fresh prayer for the same

relief unless the former order of final disposal is set

aside by a court of competent jurisdiction in a

manner prescribed by law. The court becomes

functus officio the moment the official order

disposing of a case is signed. Such an order cannot

be altered except to the extent of correcting a

clerical or an arithmetical error. The reliance of the

respondent on Talab Haji Hussain case Talab Haji

Hussain v. Madhukar Purshottom Mondkar , AIR

1958 SC 376: 1958 Cri LJ 701 is misconceived.

Even in that case it was pointed that inherent

powers conferred on the High Courts under Section

561-A of CrPC, 1898 ( Section 482 of the new Code)

have to be exercised sparingly, carefully and with

caution and only where such exercise is justified by

the tests specifically laid down in the section itself.

It is not disputed that the petition filed under 23 Section 482 of the Code had been finally disposed of

by the High Court on 7-1-1999. The new Section

362 of the Code which was drafted keeping in view

the recommendations of the 41st Report of the Law

Commission and the Joint Select Committees

appointed for the purpose, has extended the bar of

review not only to the judgment but also to the final

orders other than the judgment.‖ 5. The learned counsel for the appellant Mr

Manoj Swarup submitted that in view of the

aforesaid decision, the High Court erred in law in

recalling the order dated 2-9-2003. We regret we

cannot agree. 6. In our opinion, Section 362 cannot be

considered in a rigid and overtechnical manner to

defeat the ends of justice. As Brahaspati has

observed: 7. Apart from the above, we are of the opinion

that the application filed by the respondent was an

application for recall of the order dated 2-9-2003

and not for review. In Asit Kumar Kar v. State of

W.B.3 this Court made a distinction between recall

and review which is as under: (SCC p. 705, paras

6-7)

―6. There is a distinction between ... a review

petition and a recall petition. While in a review

petition the Court considers on merits where there

is an error apparent on the face of the record, in a

recall petition the Court does not go into the merits

but simply recalls an order which was passed

without giving an opportunity of hearing to an

affected party. 7. We are treating this petition under Article 32 as a

recall petition because the order passed in the

decision in All Bengal Excise Licensees' Assn. v.

Raghabendra Singh (2007) 11 SCC 374 cancelling

certain licences was passed without giving an

opportunity of hearing to the persons who had been

granted licences.‖ 8. Hence, we see no error in the impugned order

passed by the High Court. The appeal fails and is

accordingly dismissed. Criminal Appeal No. 875 of 2006. 16. In State of Punjab v. Davinder Pal Singh

Bhullar and others with Sumedh Singh Saini v. Davinder Pal

Singh Bhullar and others reported in (2011) 14 SCC 770, it has

been observed as:- 17. The learned counsel for the Opposite party nos.2

to 5 has referred State represented by DSPSBSC Vrs. K. R.

reported in 2009 Cri. L.J. 355 and submitted that the Criminal

Court has got no power to review or recall its own order after

having it pronounced. Gone through the decision and same is

found not applicable in the present case, because of the fact that in

the aforesaid decision the theme of fraud was not under

subjugation. 18. Hence, after scrutiny of the judicial

pronouncement as referred above, it is evident that the Court has

got power to recall the judgment, which has been obtained by

playing fraud. As stated above, the Opposite party nos.2 to 5 have

duped the Court during presentation of Cr. Misc. no.41892 of

2010 and got the order dated 10.05.2012 by playing fraud. 27 Concealing the fact that at that very crucial moment, the defence

 case was already closed and trial was pending for argument. 19. Consequent thereupon, the order dated

 10.05.2012 passed in Cr. Misc. no.41892 of 2010 is recalled. Cr.

 Misc. no.30452 of 2013 is allowed. (Aditya Kumar Trivedi, J)
Vikash/-