Petitioner is facing prosecution for an offence under

N.D.P.S.Act with the allegation that he was found in conscious

possession of 154.50 Kgs. of charas. The case set up by the

petitioner is that he was picked up by N.C.B. officials from Panipat at

4.30 P.M. on 9.2.2005. The petitioner is Israeli National and was

implicated by N.C.B. on the basis of a secret information received by

Headquarters at Delhi. On the basis of this information, Intensive

Surveillance was carried out which revealed that petitioner along with Criminal Revision No.560 of 2008 (O&M) :2: a Czech National and one Narinder Gupta was conspiring to smuggle

out a huge consignment of charas. On 9.2.2005, a secret information

was received by one Intelligence Officer Ravi Kant Pawar that the

petitioner along with his co-accused were suspected to be hiding in

Plot No.653, Industrial Area, Phase-1, Chandigarh. Mr.Ravi Kant

Pawar constituted a team and reached the said plot at about 2.00

P.M. in the after-noon. It is then that the petitioner and his co-

accused were apprehended with 154.50 Kgs.of charas. The

petitioner and his co-accused were accordingly arrested. The

petitioner accordingly is facing prosecution. During the pendency of the proceedings, Mr.Ravi Kant

Pawar was apprehended while accepting bribe of Rs.40,000/- from

one Devinder Kumar, brother of Navinder Kumar, co-accused of the

petitioner. He was then arrested by C.B.I.Chandigarh and R.C.No.18

dated 21.6.2006 was registered under Section 7 of the Prevention of

Corruption Act. The examination of the witnesses is in progress.

The case set up by the petitioner is that he has been falsely

implicated after having been arrested from Panipat on 9.2.2005. His

case further is that he is shown arrested from Chandigarh. To substantiate his defence, the petitioner has produced

on record a recorded conversation of Mr.Ravi Kant Pawar, where he

has admitted that the petitioner was arrested from Panipat and

thereafter brought to Chandigarh. In the video recording, Mr.Ravi

Kant Pawar even admitted that he would give all necessary details of

phone call records, which would clearly establish that he was at

Panipat at the relevant time where he arrested the petitioner. FIR No.782 dated 18.12.2007 also stands registered Criminal Revision No.560 of 2008 (O&M) :3: against Mr.Ravi Kant Pawar and three others alleging that petitioner

was abducted from Panipat on 9.2.2005 and falsely implicated in the

present case. It is alleged that Mr.Ravi Kant Pawar had demanded a

ransom of Rs.three crores to release the petitioner as otherwise he

threatened to involve the petitioner in a case under the N.D.P.S.Act.

The petitioner complains that prosecution had deliberately held back

Mr.Ravi Kant Pawar from examination and for that purpose sought

repeated adjournments. When Mr.Ravi Kant Pawar was produced as

witness and was to be cross-examined, an application was made for

playing the Video CD, which contained the conversation recorded

with Mr.Ravi Kant. His cross-examination was deferred. This request

was allowed and the Audio/Video CD was played. Ravi Kant Pawar

was then questioned about his voice/picture appearing on

Audio/Video CD etc. He denied that the voice appearing on the CD

was his. The contents of the CD were also termed as wrong. Mr.Ravi

Kant Pawar replied in the negative when questioned if he was

prepared to give his sample voice. Defence then moved an

application for directing the witness to give his sample voice so that it

could be got compared with Audio/Video CD, which had been

prepared by carrying out a sting operation. As is apparent, the defence wants to ask these questions

to shake the credit of the witness by injuring his character and in the

process wishes to impeach the credit of the witness. Such line of

questioning during cross-examination is regulated by Sections 146 and 155 of the Evidence Act. Section 146 of the Evidence Act

provides that when a witness is cross-examined, he may be

questioned which tends to test his veracity to shake his credit by Criminal Revision No.560 of 2008 (O&M) :4: injuring his character. As per the Section, the cross-examining party

is entitled to question a witness in addition to other questions, such

questions which tend to test the veracity of a witness or to discover

who he is and what is his position in life. He can further be

questioned to shake his credit by injuring his character, although

answer to such questions might tend directly or indirectly to criminate

him or might expose or tend directly or indirectly to expose him to a

penalty or forfeiture. To an extent, this section is controlled by Section 153 of the Evidence Act, which talks of exclusion of evidence

to contradict answer to question testing veracity. When a witness has

answered any question which is relevant to enquiring as it tends to

shake his credit by injuring his character, then no evidence is to be

given to contradict him. There are, however, two exceptions to this

section and, thus, evidence about previous conviction can be given

when the witness denies that he was previously convicted. Secondly

he can be contradicted when the witness denies facts suggested to

impeach his impartiality. This evidence to contradict answer given to

testing veracity would be permissible under these exceptions, though

otherwise evidence to contradict a witness testing veracity is

excluded. Section 155 of the Evidence Act permits impeaching the

credit of witness. It can be done by evidence of persons, who from

their knowledge believe him to be unworthy of credit or by proof that

the witness has been bribed etc. or by proof of former statements

inconsistent with any part of his evidence. It is this part of the Section

which would be relevant to decide the issue in the present case as

the defence wants to contradict the witness by proof of his former Criminal Revision No.560 of 2008 (O&M) :5: statement recorded on the tape which is inconsistent with part of his

evidence. The operation of these sections came up for

consideration before Hon'ble Supreme Court in Shri N.Sri Rama

Reddy etc. Vs. Shri V.V.Giri, 1970 Supreme Court Cases 340 and

it is observed as under:- After referring to various different decisions, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held in N.Sri Rama Reddy's case (supra) that

previous statement cannot only be used to corroborate the evidence

but as well as to test the veracity of the witness and also to impeach

his impartiality. The observations of the Court are as under:- Reference may also be made to the provisions of Section

147 of the Evidence Act, which regulates as to when can a witness

be compelled to answer. If any question relates to a matter relevant

to the suit or proceeding, then provisions of Section 132 shall apply

thereto. Section 132 of the Evidence Act provides that witness is not

to be excused from answering on the ground that the answer will

criminate him as no such answer, which a witness is compelled to

give, shall subject him to any arrest or prosecution, or be proved

against him in any criminal proceeding, except a prosecution for

giving evidence by such answer. Thus, this section has been made

to protect a witness so that he is made to give evidence without any Criminal Revision No.560 of 2008 (O&M) :8: fear of being prosecuted on that ground. Section 148 Cr.P.C. then empowers the court to decide

when question shall be asked and when witness is to be compelled

to answer. A question which is relevant so far as it affects the credit

of the witness by injuring his character, the court is to decide whether

or not the witness shall be compelled to answer. The considerations

on which the court is to exercise this discretion is also given in the

section itself. Such questions are to be considered proper if they are

of such a nature that the truth of the imputation conveyed by them

would seriously affect the opinion of the court as to the credibility of a

witness on the matter to which he testifies. Seen in this background,

the questions which are being addressed to the witness can be said

to be of such a nature that these may go to affect the opinion of the

court as to the credibility of this witness. It is required to be seen in this background if the prayer of

the petitioner to direct the witness to give his sample voice has been

rightly declined or not. The order declining the prayer for giving

sample voice is impugned through the present revision petition. Mr.R.S.Cheema, Senior counsel for the petitioner has

taken me through the impugned order to submit that the request of

the defence has been declined on the ground that this application

has been filed with ulterior purpose to defer the cross-examination

and to delay the proceedings. It is also noticed that the alleged

Video/Audio CD does not pertain to the occurrence and is only

produced to show the subsequent conduct of the witness to shake

his credibility. Counsel contends that the trial court apparently has Criminal Revision No.560 of 2008 (O&M) :9: failed to take the valid grounds into consideration while considering

the prayer of the petitioner. It is true that the Video pertains to something which is not

concerning the incident as such, but the conversation contained

therein appears to be well connected with the defence projected by

the petitioner. The plea of the defence is that the petitioner was

picked up from Panipat and had been shown to have been arrested

at Chandigarh. The plea further is that he has been falsely

implicated when he did not meet the demand for ransom. The

witness Mr.Ravi Kant Pawar is facing charges in this regard and two

FIRs have been lodged against him. This conversation in regard to

the facts of this case has been recorded by a sting operation, which

cannot be considered totally unconnected to the facts in issue. The

court has apparently not appreciated that proof of this statement

recorded on tape would be permissible to impeach the credit of the

witness and this evidence may not be open to be excluded. The court has already granted the prayer to play the

Video/Audio. Once the court had permitted the defence to play this

Video/Audio Cassette, the prayer for getting the voice compared may

have to be considered in that light, so that this issue is brought to a

logical conclusion. The State counsel instead of addressing himself to the

relevant issues, i.e., whether such a prayer could legally be

entertained and allowed, went at tangent to say that in the application

moved by the petitioner (copy of which has been taken on record

today through the misc.application moved by respondent's counsel),

no details in regard to Video/Audio cassette have been given and as Criminal Revision No.560 of 2008 (O&M) : 10 : such the application is vague and cannot be granted. Learned

counsel for the petitioner, however, is justified in saying that the

Video/Audio cassette need not have been referred to in the

application as these have already been taken on record and played

as well. The issue being agitated in the present revision petition is

only to see if the witness can be directed to give his sample voice for

the purpose of comparison with the voice which is available on the

Audio Cassette. To substantiate his plea that such a direction can be

issued by the court, the learned counsel for the petitioner has drawn

my attention to Dial Singh Narain Singh Vs. Rajpal Jagan Nath

and others , AIR 1969 Punjab and Haryana 350, where this court

has held that fresh tape-recording for comparison of earlier recorded

voice is admissible. This court besides holding that tape is admissible

went on to observe about manner and mode of its proof and the use

thereof in a trial which is referred to as a matter of detail. It is by now

fairly settled that a witness can be confronted with his earlier

statement recorded on tape and this admits hardly of any doubt. As

already noticed, certain questions are permissible during cross-

examination to shake the credit of a witness by injuring his character

in terms of Section 146 of the Indian Evidence Act. Tape-recorded

statement, if available for confronting a witness, can, thus,

legitimately be used for the purpose of shaking the credit of the

witness. In fact, this was so held in Rup Chand Vs. Mahabir

Parshad , AIR 1956 Punj 173. Accordingly, this Court in Dial Singh

Narain Singh 's case (supra) very aptly observed that for use of an

earlier tape-recorded statement, the identification of the taped voice Criminal Revision No.560 of 2008 (O&M) : 11 : would be crucial and indeed such proper investigation would be the

sine quo non for the use of earlier tape-recording. The Full Bench

referred to the observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

case of Esmail Nagree Vs. State of Maharashtra, AIR 1968 SC 147. It is held that when the tape-recorded voice is admitted,

obviously the case will not present any difficulty. Where it is denied,

then the comparison of the voice would become inevitable.

Accordingly, the order passed by the court under challenge before

the Full Bench allowing comparison of the voice was held

sustainable. Reference is also made to the case of Nirmala Vs. Ashu

Ram , 2000(4) R.C.R. (Criminal) 529, where tape-recorded

statement is held to be a relevant fact and admissible under Section

7 of the Evidence Act. Relying upon the decision of this court in Dial

Singh Narain Singh 's case (supra), the court has also held that if

the voice is denied by the maker thereof, then the court can allow the

voice of the maker to be recorded for the purpose of identification of

his earlier recorded voice. The counsel would then refer to the recent

decision in Central Bureau of Investigation, New Delhi Vs. Abdul

Karim Ladsab, Telgi and others, 2005 Cri.L.J.2868 (known as

Telgi case), where application for permission to record voice

sample of the accused for the purpose of identification of his

voice to compare it with the tape-recorded telephonic conversation

was allowed. It was further held that requiring accused to

record his voice sample would not infringe Art. 20(3) of the

Constitution of India as it does not amount to `testimonial Criminal Revision No.560 of 2008 (O&M) : 12 : compulsion'. The plea raised in this case that there are voice experts

who can easily concoct or tamper voice of any person, or that

accused can change their voice, if they are compelled to give voice

sample etc. was also not considered sufficient to reject the prayer for

examining the voice by an expert to compare with the tape-recorded

version. There are thus, sufficient precedents available where the

prayer for recording the sample voice for the purpose of comparison

has been considered and allowed by the courts. So-much-so even

accused has been asked to give his sample voice for the purpose of

comparison and the plea that it would amount to `testimonial

compulsion' was not accepted. In R.M.Malkani Vs. State of Maharashtra , (1973) 1 SCC

471, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has clearly held that tape-recorded

conversation is admissible provided first the conversation is relevant

to the matters in issue; secondly there is identification of the voice;

and, thirdly, the accuracy of the tape-recorded conversation is

proved by eliminating the possibility of erasing the tape-record. Thus,

one of the precondition for admissibility of tape-recorded

conversation is identification of voice. If that be so, then it cannot be

held that prayer for requiring an accused or a witness to lend his

voice for the purpose of identification of voice in the tape-recorded

conversation would not be permissible. With the advances made in

the field of Science and Technology, various aids are available for

establishing the identity of a person, i.e., finger prints, palm

impression, thumb impression, foot marks, blood samples, D.N.A.

Tests, specimen of handwriting, signature or exposing a part of the

body or the like. It can be said without any fear of contradiction that Criminal Revision No.560 of 2008 (O&M) : 13 : voice of a person is a personal trait, like handwriting or signatures,

which are also associated with the traits of a person. It may be

noticed that aid of voice identification is being employed by the police

during investigation for identifying individual by the time, frequency,

and intensity of their speech-sound waves. As observed in Telgi's

case (supra), a sound spectrograph is employed to record these

waves in the form of a graph that may be compared to graphs of

other individuals and differentiated. Thus, for the purpose of

comparison, the expert would require the original recording of the

voice of the concerned person or at least the best quality if the

original is not available. If the voice is to be associated with an

individual or his person and a personal trait, then scientific analysis

for identification of the voice is possible. If that be so, there should

not be any inhibition in taking the voice sample of a person. Once it is held that a person can be asked to give his

sample voice for the purpose of comparison, another question which

may arise for consideration is whether the prayer would be relevant

for determining the issue in the present trial, which the petitioner is

facing. The recording on the Video cassette apparently is concerning

the defence, which the petitioner has taken before the trial court to

plead his false implication. In my view, the petitioner should be given

proper opportunity and latitude to substantiate his defence and

should not be curtailed in his effort to prove his innocence. An

accused has a constitutionally guaranteed fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution of India to a fair trial. Right to defend

himself is also a part of his such fundamental right as also his human

right. An accused person must get all fair and proper opportunities to Criminal Revision No.560 of 2008 (O&M) : 14 : prove his innocence. The petitioner is in the process of establishing

his defence. The plea is not that far fetched that it should be

rejected. The witness is NCB officer, who arrested the petitioner. The

said officer is facing two FIRs in connection with this case. Denial of

opportunity to lead the evidence or to curtail this right may mean

denial of fair trial. The courts have always been zealously guarding

the rights of accused person so as to ensure that there is no breach

of any of such rights guaranteed to any person, accused of offence.

The conversation as recorded on the Video tape cannot be said to

be so unconcerned as to not affect the opinion of the court as to the

credibility of this witness. Accordingly, the order declining the prayer of the

petitioner for this witness to give his sample voice cannot be

sustained. The same is set aside. The parties through their counsel

are directed to appear before the trial court which shall call the

witness and direct him to give his sample voice for the purpose of

comparison. For this limited purpose, further cross-examination of

the witness may be deferred. The examination of remaining

prosecution witnesses may continue. The petitioner would be entitled

to further cross-examine the witness after obtaining the report of the

expert. It needs to be clarified that the opinion of the expert would be

placed before the court, even if it goes against the petitioner because

the same is being allowed at his instance. The present petition is accordingly disposed of.