Mr Rajib Kumar Basak
 .......for the Respondent No.10

 Mr. Partha Sarathi Bhattacharyya, Sr. Adocate
 Mr. Raju Bhattacharyya
 Mr. Partha Sarkar
 ......for the Respondent No.6

 Mr. Kishore Datta, Sr. Advocate
 Dr. S. K. Patra
 Ms. Supriya Dubey
 ......for the WBCSSC

 Mr. Kamalesh Bhattacharyya
 Mr. Anindya Bhattacharyya
 ......for the Respondent No.9

 Mr. Raja Saha
 Mr. Shamim ul Bari
 .....For the State

 Mr. Partha Sarathi Deb Burman
 Mr. K. K. Bandopadhyay
 Mr. Rameshwar Sinha
 ........for the Respondent No.7

 As the respondent no. 8 Mr. Ashok Kumar Saha

 could not affirm his affidavit yesterday due to his

 illness, as was submitted by his learned advocate, Mr.

 Sunit Kumar Roy, the affidavit affirmed on 3rd March, 2 2022, i.e., today, has been filed in court today. Copies

of such affidavit have been served upon the petitioners

and also upon the learned advocate for the Commission

in court today. A startling revelation in paragraph no. 5 of such

affidavit is - "It is also stated that generally

recommendation letters are issued in favour of the

empanelled waitlisted candidates on the date of

counseling after opting the school by the respective

candidates, but here in the instant case the respondent

no. 6 was not called for counseling in spite of that

recommendation letter was issued in favour of the

respondent no. 6." This paragraph no. 5 of the affidavit, part of

which has been quoted above, is affirmed by the

deponent as „true to his knowledge‟. At the relevant point of time he was the Secretary

as well as the Chairman-in-Charge of the Commission. After going through the above quoted lines from

the affidavit of Mr. Saha, I asked the learned advocate

for the Commission, Dr. Patra, as to his submission in

this regard. He has submitted that the not holding of

counseling was not an act of the Commission and

Commission cannot be held responsible for that. He

further submitted that the Commission is a statutory

authority and the affidavit has been affirmed by Mr.

Saha in his personal capacity. (Abhijit Gangopadhyay, J.) 3 Later: recasting of the interview list. These were the main

prayers of the petitioners. 2. For making such prayers the allegation was that

the selection process was conducted by the Commission

arbitrarily. The respondent Commission whimsically did

not call the petitioners in counseling who are all OBC-A

candidates. 3. In page 6 of the writ application a table has been

given which makes the allegation of the petitioners clear

wherefrom it is found that one Sk. Insan Ali, who is the

respondent no. 6 in this writ application, was in the

waitlisted rank of W-144 whereas the petitioners nos. 1,

2 and 3 were all above the said Sk. Insan Ali in the

waitlist and the petitioner no. 4 had equal marks with

Sk. Insan Ali. 4. In this regard specific pleadings have been made

in paragraph 26 of the writ application wherein the

petitioners have stated that one Sk. Insan Ali a below

rank holder (rank W-144 in OBC-A male/female

category) than the petitioners in OBC-A male/female

merit list, has got appointment letter and has joined in

the Bani Niketan R.M. Vidyalaya (High) despite the

petitioners being in higher rank holder in OBC-A

male/female, have not received any call letter or 4 intimation letter for counseling and also naturally did

not get any appointment letter. 5. Here I must record one objection of the learned

advocate for the Commission yesterday, (his other

objections will be recorded latter) as to the delay in

preferring this application. 6. I have found that the recommendation was done

surreptitiously. Today it has come to light that no

counselling was held before recommending Sk. Insan Ali

in a school. If an authority acts surreptitiously in giving

recommendation then the persons who are suffering has

to act like a sleuth. 7. We are fortunate, today in our country there is an

Act, namely, Right to Information Act . The petitioners

on 1st February, 2021 filed one application under Right

to Information Act to the school for knowing certain

facts and the school gave its reply stating that the said

Sk. Insan Ali joined the school on 1st December, 2020

under category OBC-A for classes IX and X. 8. So the petitioners for the first time came to learn

specifically that the respondent no. 6, who was a below-

ranked candidate, was appointed in February, 2021.

This writ application has been affirmed in August, 2021

and I cannot blame the petitioners for filing it after six

months keeping it in mind that the unemployed youth

are facing a mammoth authority namely West Bengal

Central School Service Commission. 9. After considering that particular objection of the

learned advocate for the Commission, Mr. Dutta, the 5 court‟s observation is that there is no delay in filling the

application in the facts and circumstances of the case. 10. It was also the allegation of the petitioners that

the respondent authority created opportunity to their

favourite less-meritorious candidates which is pleaded

in paragraph 18 of the writ application Further

allegation is that some candidates have been appointed

after getting recommendation from the Commission by

way of pick and chose method. To show this I will come

to the exception taken by the petitioners in respect of

the report of the Commission. 11. The petitioners made their submissions initially

on that basis and this court (Cor. Saugata

Bhattacharyya, J.) directed the Commission to file a

report in the form of an affidavit which was filed by

them on 3rd November, 2021. This order was passed on

15th September, 2021. On 30th September, 2021 the

Hon‟ble Court granted further time to the Commission

for filing its report. On 21.02.2022 when the matter was

being heard and the Commission filed its report in the

form of affidavit, the respondent No. 6 produced in court

two recommendation letters and two appointment

letters along with one envelope of the Commission. After

going through the said two recommendation letters, one

dated 18th December, 2019 and the other dated 25th

February, 2020, I directed the Commission on that day

to intimate certain facts which were recorded in

paragraph 6 of the order of that date. Those facts have

not been intimated to this court till date, which I have

noted. 12. On 22nd February, 2022 I was told that at the

relevant point of time of issuance of the two

recommendation letters one Soumitra Sarkar was the

Chairman and one Mr. Ashok Kumar Saha in some

intervals acted as the Chairman-in-charge in the

absence of the Chairman and I directed them to appear

before this court on the next date and they were added

as parties. 13. On the next date, i.e., on 28.02.2022, I found

from the statement of Mr. Sarkar that when those two

recommendation letters were issued to the respondent

no. 6, (who was a candidate below the rank of the three

petitioners and equal in marks to the fourth petitioner)

he was on leave at the time of the first recommendation

due to her mother‟s death and at the time of the second

recommendation letter he was released from the

Commission. Therefore, he had no involvement in this

matter. 14. Nobody has raised any objection in respect of his

statement. However, I directed him to file an affidavit in

respect of the statements made by him which he did

and the affidavit was filed yesterday (02.03.2022) in

court with the similar statements. 15. On 28.02.2022 Mr. Ashok Kumar Saha, who

worked as the Chairman-in-charge during the absence

of Mr. Sarkar and some days after Mr. Sarkar was

released form his duty as Chairman, was asked as to

who signed those recommendation letters, he stated

that he had been totally ignorant about issuance of

such recommendation letters because the signatures on 7 the recommendation letters were mechanically printed

and those were scanned signatures and he never signed

those two recommendation letters and he did not have

absolutely any idea as to how this was done. He further

submitted that before discussion of the matter with his

advocates about this writ application after receiving a

copy of this court‟s order dated 22nd February, 2022

and while going through the orders passed by this

court, he did not have any idea about such

recommendations. However, in reply to the court‟s

question he disclosed names of two persons. 1) Dr.

Santi Prasad Sinha (who worked as the Advisor of the

West Bengal Central School Service Commission and

according to Mr. Saha, who handled all such

recommendations and not Mr. Saha) and 2) Mr.

Samarjit Acharya (The Programme Officer of the Central

School Service Commission). 16. Those two persons were also added as parties by

this court and I directed those two persons to appear

before this court on 2nd March, 2022 at 2 p.m. 17. On 2nd March, 2022 I first asked some questions

exercising my power under Section 165 of the Indian

Evidence Act to Mr. Samarjit Acharya who replied on

oath. Some of the questions asked to him and his reply

thereto are quoted below: Q.20) Who has signed this document?
 Ans. The Joint Secretary to the Government of West
 Bengal. Q.22) How Mr. Sinha gave you the instruction to print
 the recommendation letters, orally or in writing?
 Ans. He used to instruct verbally. Q.25) Can you remember for how many times over a
 period Mr. Sinha gave you instruction to print
 recommendation letters at this instruction?
 Ans. I do not remember the exact number of
 instructions given by Mr. Sinha. But he has started
 giving me instruction from the end of 2019. " 18. None of the parties prayed for this court‟s

leave to cross examine the two persons who were

asked questions by the court. 19. While replying to question no. 18 Mr.

Acharya produced one document which was

marked by this court as Exhibit-1, which is an

order passed by the Joint Secretary of the

Government of West Bengal of Secondary Branch

of School Education Department of Government of

West Bengal. That order is reproduced in the next

page: 10 20. This order issued by the Joint Secretary

contains five names including the advisor with

whom the Committee was constituted and the

Chairman of the Commission was given the post

of ex-officio Chairman of the Committee. 21. This order of the School Education

Department dated 01.11.2019 is extremely

surprising. There is no mentioning under what

provision of law such an order was issued by the

School Education Department naming five

persons as have been given in the said letter as

member. Under what provisions of law this order

was issued is not understood by this court.

Learned Advocate for the state has not made any

submissions in this regard. Why suddenly

supervision and monitoring of pending

recruitment process were required to be taken up

by this Committee is not mentioned in the said

order. The Commission was a complete body

constituted by a statue full of experts and it has

its own work force for doing all the jobs done

which the Commission did for several recruitment

processes wherein an average three lakhs or so

candidates participated. Why this time such a

Committee was constituted shall always remain a

question until some enquiry is made in respect of

the role of these members of the Committee. That

order of the School Education Department was

issued with the concurrence of the competent

authority; who was the competent authority is

also to be found out. 22. There is a provision under Section 19 of the

West Bengal School Service Commission Act,

1997 where the State Government can issue

directions. The provision is reproduced

hereinbelow: 23. In the said order issued by the School

Education Department singed by the Joint

Secretary dated 01.11.2019, no such directions is

found. It was only for constitution of the

committee. Therefore, this order was not at all an

order under Section 19 of the aforesaid Act. At

this juncture a reply of Mr. Acharya becomes very

important which he gave on oath before this court

yesterday. In reply to question no.25 Mr. Acharya

stated as follows: 24. It is a matter to be noted that Mr. Sinha

became the convenor of the Committee on

01.11.2019 i.e at the end of the 2019. 25. In the course of the hearing yesterday

learned advocate for the private respondent

intimated me that he had preferred an appeal

which was pending but there was no order of stay

in the said appeal. Today at the time of passing

this judgement I am intimated by the learned

advocate for the State and the learned advocate

for the petitioners that the appeal was taken up

for hearing yesterday but no stay was granted. 26. Learned Senior advocate for the School

Service Commission Mr. Kishore Dutta made the

following submissions: Such statement of Mr. Gani in the report (in 13 the form of an affidavit) of the Commission
 made in paragraph 4(d) were matters of
 records which he believed to be true. It is
 found from the said report that Mr. Gani did
 not take any meaningful step to know the
 actual state of affairs from the Programme
 Officer Mr. Acharya as to how such
 recommendation letters were printed and by
 whose direction. It is found that Mr. Gani is
 trying to hide some truth from this court of
 law. It has already been held by me that
 such selective recommendation as has been
 given to the Respondent No.6 cannot be a
 result of mistake and now it has come to
 light that it was in fact not a mistake. It
 was printed by the instruction of the then
 advisor and the convenor of the Committee,
 though it has been denied by the said
 convenor before this court. I made it clear in
 my order dated 21.02.2022 that the shelter
 under the expression „mistake‟ cannot be
 used by the Commission. In the facts and
 circumstances of the case the stance of the
 Commission as to inadvertent mistake is
 not accepted by this court. iii) Mr. Dutta submitted that some papers
 produced before this court cannot be taken
 into account by this court. Those papers
 were produced by the respondent No. 6 and
 nobody stated that those papers are false
 and fabricated. Therefore, those non-
 controversial documents were accepted by
 this court and court has the power to accept
 such documents. iv) Mr. Dutta has further submitted that this is
 an adversarial proceeding and there is no 14 proper pleading for adjudication of this
 adversarial proceeding. But it appeared
 from the report in the form of an affidavit
 filed by the Commission that they did not
 dispute the illegality in the recommendation
 and subsequent appointment of the private
 respondent. This court intimated Mr. Dutta
 specifically that what is coming to the fore
 in this matter is nothing but a scam and
 corruption and no technical point as was
 raised by him would be accepted by this
 court because this Writ Court wants to go to
 the root of the matter to unearth the scam
 as a court of equity. 27. Now I come to some examples from the

exception taken by the learned advocate for the

petitioners (to the report of the Commission)

wherein particulars of a large number of illegal

recommendation were given: (v) Even one non-listed candidate,
namely, Sumita Das got appointment in the
subject Geography in Tapan Balika
Vidyalaya (H.S.) whereas several waiting
listed candidates did not receive any call
letter. (vi) Rank WL 194 in OBC-A Male/Female
category and WL 123 in OBC-A Female
category in subject Bengali (GRAD) got
recommendation letter and joined the school
but Rank WL 146 in OBC-A Male/Female
and Rank WL 87 in OBC-A Female in the
same subject and category got no call for
counselling. (vii) One non-listed candidate, namely,
Jnui Das got appointment in one school,
namely, Gujarpur Shibganj Bishalaxmi High
School whereas several waiting listed
candidates did not get any call letter. (viii) Another non-listed candidate Md.
Azad Ali Mirza got recommendation letter
from the Commission in the subject Bengali
whereas similar subject and category wait
listed candidates did not get any call. (ix) One Md. Golam Rabbani being rank
holder WL 174 in OBC-A Male/Female
category in subject English (GRAD) got
appointment letter though in the same 16 category and subject WL 131 and WL 134
did not get any call for counselling. (x) One Mou Sarkar being rank holder
WL 168 in OBC-B Female category got
appointment letter in subject English but
higher rank holders in the same subjects
and category being rank holder WL 65, WL
90, WL 141 and WL 154 did not receive any
call letter for counselling. (xi) One non-listed candidate, namely,
Imam Momin got appointment letter in the
subject English in a school whereas several
waiting listed candidates did not get any
appointment letters. (xii) Another non-listed candidate Jayasri
Sarkar got recommendation letter in the
subject English whereas other WL
candidates did not get any call letter. (xiii) One Runa Laila being rank holder WL
58 in OBC-A Female category in subject
English got appointment letter but higher
rank holders being rank WL 50 and WL 53
in OBC-A Female category in same subject
did not get any call letter for counselling. (xiv) Another non-listed candidate
Gurupada Gharai got appointment letter in
the subject Life Science (GRAD) whereas
several waiting listed candidates in the
same subject did not get call letter for
counselling. (xv) Another non-listed candidate Md. Tazuddin Ahamed Shafil Imam got
appointment letter in the subject Physical
Science (Grad) whereas several waiting
listed candidates in the same subject did
not get call letter for counselling. 17 (xvi) Another non-listed candidate Arun
 Kumar Sinha got appointment letter in the
 subject Physical Science (Grad) whereas
 several waiting listed candidates in the
 same subject did not get call letter for
 counselling. (xvii) Another non-listed candidate
 Dibyendu Samajdar got appointment letter
 in the subject Physical Science (Grad)
 whereas several waiting listed candidates
 did not get call letter for counselling. Such allegations have not been
 denied by the Commission. 28. In this view of such illegal appointments

what is coming into light is only tip of the iceberg

and the objections raised by Mr. Dutta, being in

the nature of technical objections that too after

admission of his client as to inadvertent mistake

(which is not accepted by this court). 29. While I was hearing the technical objections

raised by Mr. Dutta not the legal principles but

two lines of a poem in the collection named

„Naibedya‟ by Rabindranath Tagore came into my

mind. (Where technicalities have not gulped the course

of justice). And I started thinking as to why the court

of law has become the playground of fantastic law-

knowing advocates who can make speech by referring 18 to thousands of fantastic legal principles, none of

which is applicable in view of the corruption that is

coming to the fore and fraud is being practiced upon a

large number of educated and unemployed youth. I

have not accepted the contentions of Mr. Dutta

Learned Senior Advocated . 30. In reply to the objection of Mr. Dutta, Mr.

Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, learned senior

advocate appearing for the petitioners has

submitted: Now the names of some Government

Officers have come into light from the said

Government Order dated 01.11.2019 and

naturally the Government is behaving in a stead-

fast matter for resisting the enquiry (not even an

investigation) by one independent agency like

C.B.I. He further submitted that in all the cases

where this Court gave direction for enquiry by

C.B.I. are covered by this Order dated 01.11.2019

hitherto unknown to the public in general and

petitioners in particular and this scam in public

employment cannot be continued. As such, this is

a fit case to be investigated by C.B.I. 31. As the order of the Government has already

been quoted above, I am not repeating the names

of the highly placed persons with whom the

Committee was constituted. Hence in this matter 19 also, I direct the C.B.I. enquiry, as the C.B.I. is an

expert agency which is not under the control of

State Government, in a scam where a Committee

has been formed with the important officers of the

State Government by the School Education

Department. Therefore, I direct the Director,

Central Bureau of Investigation to constitute a

Committee immediately, headed by an officer not

below the rank of Joint Director with officers not

below the rank of D.I.G. to initiate the enquiry. It

is expected that all the persons named in the said

order of the Government including the „competent

authority‟ with whose concurrence the order was

issued and any other person from whom CBI want

to gather facts for inquiry of the matter should

come under the umbrella of the enquiry. It is not

that I do not have any confidence upon the police

of this State. But the police is controlled by the

State and in effect they are chained by orders ect.

from the different quarters. Otherwise, I have the

belief that the Kolkata Police or the West Bengal

Police is fully capable to enquire into the matter. 32. For this reason, as C.B.I. is an agency

outside the control of this State, I am directing the

C.B.I. to hold this enquiry which has happened in

this State wherein a Committee constituted by the 20 State of highly placed officials was acting and the

tip of „corruption-ice-berg‟ is found. 33. Unless the highly placed persons having

huge influence had the hands in committing such

scam in public employment, such illegality could

not have happened. Such illegal appointees, who

are sometimes below some deserving rank holders

or sometimes not in the list even, which is

unthinkable, have got public employment in

schools where salaries are paid from public

exchequer which could not have happened had

there not been the interference and/or directions

by the extremely influential persons. 34. C.B.I. shall also enquire whether there is

any money trail in respect of such appointment.

Admittedly, it appears from the aforesaid report of

the Commission and answers given by one of its

officers indicating the corruption at the instance

of the convenor of the Committee that the

appointed person‟s rank was below the first three

petitioners and equal to the marks of the fourth

petitioner. 35. This morning one startling fact has been

placed before this court when Mr. Saha, who

acted as Chairman-in-Charge and is the Assistant

Secretary of the Commission for some time has

placed one affirmed statement that the particular 21 respondent no.6 was not even called for

counselling. Without any counselling,

recommendation letter was issued in favour of the

respondent no.6 which has been recorded in the

order passed today at the very inception of this

matter before I started dictating this order. 36. This court directs the C.B.I. to take steps

immediately in respect of the five named persons

in the order of the Government of West Bengal

dated 01.11.2019 and others and further start

enquiring the matter as extreme illegality is found

which has irresistibly brought me to the question

of corruption. Thus the C.B.I. has two functions:- 37. Mr. Samim ul Bari, learned advocate for the

State has prayed for stay of operation of this order 22 on the ground that in a similar matter the appeal

court has stayed C.B.I. enquiry yesterday. In reply

to court‟s question, he has fairly submitted that in

the said matter this Committee of five persons of

highly placed Government Officials was not before

this court or the appeal court- which throws a

completely different light in the matter to be

inquired. Considering the prayer for stay, I reject

the prayer. 38. I expect that zero tolerance to corruption

which is now a policy of State will be followed by

all. 39. The personal appearances of all the persons

whom I directed to appear personally in this

matter are dispensed with until further orders. 40. This matter will appear in the list on 21st

March, 2022 for the interim report in respect of

the said five persons of the committee and the

competent authority at whose direction the order

was passed and thereafter on 20th April, 2022 for

filing the interim report by C.B.I. 41. The petitioner is directed to serve a copy of

this order upon C.B.I. immediately. This matter is marked as heard-in-part. (Abhijit Gangopadhyay, J.)