Shri Kunal Thakre, learned counsel for the Respondent Nos.5 and 6.

 Shri Shashank Shekhar Dugwekar and Shri Samdarshi Tiwari learned

counsel for the Respondent/Intervener. Shri Swapnil Ganguly, Proxy Council appearing on behalf of

Advocate General. W.P. No.11707/2021 has been filed by Ankita Agrawal alleging mass

scale corruption in the conduct of examination and declaration of results for

various medical colleges of the State conducted by M.P. Medical Science

University, Jabalpur and its Controller of Examination, which was

outsourced by them to a firm M/s Mindlogix Infratec Limited, subsequently

implemented as party respondent in these proceedings. The allegation in the

writ petition is that the said company was already facing criminal cases at

Agra in the State of Uttar Pradesh on allegations of preparing huge number

of fake mark-sheets. While on one hand, the result of the students is not

being declared for as long as two years, on the other, some of the students,

who were actually absent in the examination, have been declared pass. In the ---2--- internal enquiry conducted by the University through its own Registrar, the

said Company has been found guilty of large scale irregularities, affecting

career of several medical students of the State. Yet no action has been taken

against it. Petitioner - Akhilesh Tripathi has filed similar petition bearing W.P.

No.16788/2021 also alleging mass scale irregularities in the University and

averred that despite the Government receiving several complaints in respect

of the scam, no serious action has been taken. The Vice Chancellor of the

University himself was directed by the State Government vide letter dated

1.6.2021 to get an enquiry conducted through Registrar of the University.

The University on the basis of the aforesaid enquiry on 5.7.2021 terminated

the agreement with M/s Mindlogix Infratec Limited and black listed the

same. Dr. Vrinda Saxena, the Controller of Examination was removed from

her position and Deputy Registrar Dr. Tripti Gupta, who actually bursted the

whole racket, was also repatriated to her parent department. Even the

Chairman of the Enquiry Committee Dr. J. K. Gupta, Registrar of the

University, was also transferred and repatriated to his parent department.

W.P. No.11870/2021 has also been filed by Arvind Mishra on similar facts

alleging big scam in the conduct of examinations and declaration of result by

the University. What is common in all these writ petitions is that the petitioners have

prayed for a direction to conduct an enquiry by the retired High Court Judge

or by CBI or by constitution of an SIT, into the allegations of functioning of

the M.P. Medical Science University and the role of M/s Mindlogix Infratec

Limited. ---3--- This Court on 14.09.2021 passed a detailed order with reference to the

earlier orders passed on 16.08.2021 and 31.8.2021. When the matter was

listed on 16.08.2021, the learned Additional Advocate General appearing for

State submitted that the matter with regard to holding a "high level enquiry" The action taken report filed today supported by affidavit of Chief

Secretary, Government of Madhya Pradesh, Bhopal only states that there

were some procedural and technical defects in the enquiry conducted by the

then Registrar of University, therefore, no final decision could be taken by

the State Government in respect of holding high level enquiry. The

Commissioner of Medical Education, Government of Madhya Pradesh

therefore sent communication dated 13.09.2021 to the Vice Chancellor of ---4--- the University (Divisional Commissioner, Jabalpur) seeking clarification on

certain aspects. In response to that letter, the Vice Chancellor has now sent

clarification. The State Government on considering the clarification of the

Vice Chancellor has constituted a five members "High Level Committee."

Surprisingly, however, the Committee, which the respondents have

described as "High Level Committee", is the one headed by an officer of the

rank of Additional Collector, Jabalpur with four technical experts. In view of the gravity of the matter and seriousness of allegations of

large scale irregularities in various examinations and their results, the

proposal of the Government to get the matter enquired into by such

Committee cannot be approved. Even as per the original stand of the

Government before this Court, the aforementioned committee cannot be

described as a "High Level Committee". The committee that should be

entrusted with the task of holding enquiry should be such, which includes

persons of high caliber, eminence and reasonable stature. In our view, the

enquiry committee should be such which inspires confidence of all

concerned and dispels the misgivings about the fairness of examination and

declaration of results amongst the students, their parents and the public at

large. It is therefore directed that the State Government shall constitute a

High Level Committee headed by a retired Judge of the High Court with a

Senior Police Officer of the rank of Inspector General of Police or above and

three experts drawn from the disciplines of Academics, Computer &

Information Technology and Forensic Science. In the meanwhile, the

respondents-University and M/s Mindlogix Infratec Limited are directed to ---5--- keep the soft data on their data base server/computer system fully preserved,

 so as to facilitate fair and independent enquiry, verification whereof shall be

 made by the committee immediately on commencement of the enquiry. The enquiry committee, as directed above, shall be constituted within

 seven days. Considering that the matter pertains to the career of the large

 number of students, the enquiry committee so constituted shall have the

 mandate to complete the same within a period of 30 days and shall be

 provided with all the logistic support and access to the records. Ordered accordingly. Matter to come up on 25.10.2021. Interim order in connected matters to continue till the next date of
 hearing.