The present revisional application has been preferred challenging the

proceedings being ECIR/KLZO-II/19/2022 under Sections 3 and 4 of the 2 Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 dated 24.6.2022 along with the

summons issued by Enforcement Directorate under Sections 50(2) and 50(3) dated 8.6.2023 under the said Act against the petitioner. The prayers which have been advanced in the present revisional

application are two- fold. Firstly, relating to the quashing of the ECIR and,

secondly, relating to the summons dated 8.6.2023 issued by the

Enforcement Directorate. The background of the case relates to an order dated 10.7.2023

passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in SLP (C) No. 11588-11589/2023,

which was preferred by the petitioner and the relevant part of the said

judgment/order, necessitated for the purpose of the present litigation, is set

out as follows: The revisional application was initially heard on 20th of July, 2023 and

it was submitted on behalf of the petitioner that summons have been issued

against him under Section 50 of the PMLA Act, 2002, which were pursuant

to the orders dated 13th April, 2023 and 18th May, 2023 and the Hon'ble 3 Apex Court granted leave to prefer the present application under Section

482 of the Cr.P.C. holding that the aforesaid orders should not stand in the

way of the statutory remedies available. On behalf of the Enforcement Directorate (hereinafter referred to as

'E.D.' for sake of brevity), it was contended that on 8th June, 2023, the

petitioner was summoned to appear on 13th June, 2023 and documents

were furnished by the petitioner on 26th June, 2023. The scrutiny of which

were under process. It was further contended that the petitioner did not appear but only

communicated to the officer of the E.D. in respect of the documents which

were called for. Next date was fixed on 24th of July, 2023 and, this Court

directed that till 24th July, 2023 until and unless any money trail is

discovered against the petitioner, no coercive steps should be taken against

him. On 24th of July, 2023, Mr. S.V. Raju, Learned Additional Solicitor

General appearing on behalf of the E.D. took a preliminary objection

regarding the authority of this Court to take up the application under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. and to that effect drew the attention of this Court

to the order dated 28.4.2023 passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in SLP

(Civil) Diary Nos. 15883/2023. A reference was made from paragraph 3 of the said order which is as

follows: The attention of this Court was drawn to the assignment order dated

1st May, 2023 passed by the Hon'ble the Chief Justice, High Court, Calcutta,

wherein it was directed that "The Writ Petitions, all application filed in the

writ petitions and any further application/s that may be filed including

Review Application/s are assigned to Hon'ble Justice Amrita Sinha." The Learned ASG also pointed out that the order dated 14.7.2023

passed by the Hon'ble Justice Amrita Sinha in WPA 9979 of 2022, which is

as follows: This Court enquired from the learned ASG as to whether bail

application and other related criminal matters should be taken up by the

same Hon'ble Judge, who is in seisin, of WPA 9979 of 2022. To this, Learned

ASG submitted that according to his understanding of the orders it is the

same Hon'ble Judge who is in seisin of WPA 9979 of 2022, who should take

up the bail matters relating to this case. There were counter arguments by Dr. Singhvi, Learned Advocate

appearing for the petitioner, which need not be gone into. But, it is a fact 5 when earlier bail applications in connection with the same ECIR in respect

of the other accused persons were taken up by this Court, the E.D. never

took up this issue relating to the authority of this Court in adjudicating the

bail applications. However, in view of the stand taken by the E.D., this Court thought it

fit and proper in the circumstances to place the records before the Hon'ble

the Chief Justice, High Court, Calcutta for deciding on the issue as to

whether this Court had the determination to take up the revisional

application. The Hon'ble the Chief Justice, High Court, Calcutta by his order

dated 25.7.2023 was pleased to observe as follows: This Court thereafter sought clarification from the E.D. as to whether

they intend to move the Hon'ble Supreme Court against the Administrative

Order/Assignment Order dated 25.7.2023 passed by the Hon'ble the Chief

Justice, High Court, Calcutta and submit written instruction and then, this

Court, would proceed with the hearing of the application under Section 482

Cr.P.C. Accordingly, a written instruction was submitted by the investigating

officer of the case dated 02.08.2023 that they have been advised not to

challenge the Administrative order of the Hon'ble The Chief Justice, High

Court, Calcutta. The application thereafter was taken up for hearing/final disposal on

and from 03.08.2023. Dr. Singhvi initially drew the attention of this Court to the relevant

documents and paragraph of the application which referred to various

instances when the petitioner and his relatives were forced to face

inconvenience by the Central Investigating Agencies. It was submitted that

the petitioner and his family members have been at the receiving end of

various mala fide acts perpetrated by Central Government agencies

including the opposite party herein (ED), CBI and others. The petitioner and

his family members have been targeted only because the petitioner is a

member of AITC, which is the ruling party in the State of West Bengal. The

attempts made by the central investigating agencies to repeatedly attack and

badger the petitioner and his family is part of a nefarious design undertaken

by the Central Government to destabilize and subvert the democratically

elected government in the State of West Bengal. The petitioner and his

family are victims of a political vendetta, with the sole intention to harass

them for oblique purposes. The Learned Senior Advocate relied upon certain instances which are

summarised as follows: from travelling abroad seeking medical treatment. 9. February - April INSTANCE 9: Sensitive information about
 2021 investigation leaked to media by Central
 Investigating Agency targeting the petitioner. 10. July 2022 INSTANCE 10: Petitioner's sister-in-law
 summoned by ED to appear at New Delhi. 11. September 2022 INSTANCE 11: Petitioner's sister-in-law detained
 at Kolkata Airport and prohibited from travelling
 abroad. 12. June 2023 INSTANCE 12: Petitioner's wife and minor
 children detained at Kolkata Airport and
 prohibited from travelling abroad. Dr. Singhvi, Learned Senior Advocate submitted that the petitioner

has been dragged under the ambit of WPA 9979 of 2022, which has been

colloquially referred to as 'Teachers Recruitment Scam". It was submitted

that on 29.3.2023 petitioner delivered a speech in a public meeting, wherein

he alleged that the Central Investigating Agency had previously pressurised

people to implicate him in pending cases and an application being CAN 1 of 8 2023 was taken out in WPA 9979 of 2023 (Soumen Nandy -Vs- State of

West Bengal), wherein it was alleged that the accused named Kuntal Ghosh

in the aforesaid scam alleged that he had to face custodial torture to wrongly

implicate the petitioner. The said application was preferred before the

Hon'ble Justice Abhijit Gangopadhyay, who directed that "all the aspects

which have been indicated above including the public speech of one Abhishek

Banerjee should also not be outside the investigation of CBI and if necessary

by E.D." Aggrieved by the said order the petitioner preferred SLP being SLP (C)

Diary No. 15883 dated 2023 titled as Abhisek Banerjee -Vs- Soumen Nandy

and Ors. After hearing the parties, the Hon'ble Apex Court disposed of the

aforesaid SLP, vide order dated 28.4.2023 with a direction upon the then

Acting Chief Justice, High Court, Calcutta to reassign WPA 9979 of 2022 to

another Bench and further gave liberty to the petitioner to file relevant

application before the Assignee Judge. The petitioner filed two applications

being CAN 5 of 2023 and CAN 6 of 2023 in WPA 9979 of 2022 in terms of

the order dated 28.4.2023 passed by the Hon'ble Apex Court praying for

intervention and recalling of the order dated 13.4.2023. Vide order dated

18.5.2023, the Hon'ble Justice Amrita Sinha dismissed the petitioner's

applications and imposed exemplary cost of Rs.25 lakhs upon the petitioner. The said order dated 18.5.2023 was challenged before the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in SLP(C) 11588-11589/2023, and by order dated 10.7.2023

the Hon'ble Apex Court was pleased to dispose of the SLP by setting aside 9 the cost of Rs. 25 lakhs imposed by the Hon'ble Single Judge granting

liberty to the petitioner to take recourse before the Hon'ble High Court,

Calcutta including filing petition under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. It was submitted that pursuant to the order dated 18.5.2023, the

petitioner was summoned by the CBI at its office at Calcutta on 20.5.2023

by serving 24 hours notice. The petitioner at the relevant point of time was

involved in a political rally throughout the State and in the midst of the

same, the petitioner had to return to Calcutta. The petitioner made himself available for examination before the CBI

office on 20.5.2023. The petitioner thereafter resumed his State wide rally

when he was served with another summon on 8.6.2023 by the E.D. to

provide voluminous information and documents, which included

documents, dated back to 2012 and had nothing to do with the petitioner's

speech and his association with Kuntal Ghosh. Vide letter dated 13.6.2023 the petitioner responded to the summons

issued by the E.D. thereby seeking clarification regarding the scope and

purport of investigation and deliver time to compile the voluminous

information of the documents sought by the agency. The E.D. vide its letter

dated 14.6.23 responded by stating that summons dated 8.6.2023 was

issued for enquiry into the money laundering trail and proceeds of crime

generated in the Primary Teachers Recruitment Scam under the PMLA Act,

2002 . Subsequently, vide letter dated 26.6.2023, the petitioner intended to

cooperate with the investigation submitted information and documents and

made it clear that the E.D. travelled beyond the scope of the order passed on

13.4.2023. It has been contended that the petitioner was never named as an

accused in the predicate offence being RC 0102022A0006 dated 9.6.2022

registered under Sections 7 / 7A / 8 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Sections 120B / 420 / 467 / 468 / 506 / 34 of the IPC by the CBI, ECB, Calcutta,

which is investigating the Teachers' Recruitment Scam of the Primary

Education Board in the State of West Bengal. Dr. Singhvi reiterated that the Hon'ble Supreme Court granted liberty

to the petitioner to exercise his rights under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C.,

against the overzealousness showcased by the opposite party towards the

petitioner. It was urged that the act of giving a public speech and its alleged

link to Kuntal Ghosh's complaint has no nexus to the offence of money

laundering or proceeds of crime. The E.D.'s investigation is based on guess

work, surmises, illusory assumptions and speculations and the same is

evident from the fishing and roving investigation it is conducting by seeking

documents relating as far back as 2012 that too only after Hon'ble High

Court vide order dated 13.04.2023 directed the Opposite Party to investigate

the aspect of the political speech delivered by the petitioner with respect to

the complaint of custodial torture filed by one Kuntal Ghosh against the

Opposite Party. As such Learned Senior Advocate submits that the 11 purported investigation under PMLA against the petitioner is without any

cogent reason or basis. So far as the dictum of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vijay Madanlal

Choudhury & Ors. -Vs- Union of India, according to the petitioner, only when

there is a predicate offence, then, there will be an ECIR and subsequent

investigation is maintainable. In the instant case on13.4.2023, there was no

predicate offence allegedly or otherwise against the petitioner, which,

therefore, nullifies the purported investigation carried out by the E.D. vis-vis

the petitioner. In Parvati Kollur -vs- Directorate of Enforcement, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court has held that a person cannot be prosecuted under PMLA Act on any

notional basis on the assumption that a scheduled offence has been

committed unless a predicate case is registered. It was submitted that

considering the facts and circumstances of the instant case as on 13.4.2023

neither there was any complaint registered against the petitioner nor there

was any pending enquiry or trial. It was further contended that a Joint

reading of Section 2(u) and Section 3 of PMLA Act requires a person to be

directly or indirectly involved with proceeds of crime. In the instant case, the

petitioner's act of giving public speech has no relevance with any financial

transaction/scam/proceeds of crime. Thus, the ED do not have any

materials against the petitioner to indicate that there is any alleged money

trail leading to the petitioner herein, which justifies the petitioner's stand

that the entire investigation reeks of malice and has been initiated with

oblique motives. The learned senior advocate submits that not only in the instant

case, but taking into account other surrounding facts and circumstances, it

would reflect that opposite party is proceeding against the petitioner with

manifest malafides and to that effect assigns the following reasons : It was submitted that on a bare perusal of the facts and

circumstances, it would be evident that the petitioner is aggrieved by the

persistent harassment by the Central Investigating agencies i.e. CBI and ED

and continued attempt to implicate the petitioner in the Teacher's

Recruitment Scam for political reasons. It was submitted further, that the

summons issued under Section 50 of the PMLA during an investigation

must have a basis which indicates a connection between the person

summoned and the ongoing investigation. The ED submitted several reports

in the Hon'ble High Court about its ongoing investigation and also before

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in matters pertaining to the alleged education

scam coupled with subsequent chargesheets filed in the matter and there

has been no mention about the petitioner. However, immediately after the

order dated 13.04.2023 and 18.05.2023 was passed by the Hon'ble High

Court, the petitioner received the first summons on 08.06.2023 which

according to the petitioner, is clearly in furtherance of the High Court order. It was submitted that the clarification by the ED that the petitioner is

not called pursuant to the High Court's order but in course of the ongoing

investigation, is merely an afterthought for the purposes of implicating the

petitioner in the alleged scam without there being any material to show that

the petitioner is privy to any information or evidence relating to the

proceeds of crime. It was submitted that the Central Agencies are being misused by the

Central Government to specifically target and harass the petitioner and his

family members as they belong to an opposition political party. Learned senior advocate in order to substantiate his argument relied

upon the following decisions: Attention was drawn to paragraphs 7 and 9 of Parvati Kollur Vs.

Directorate of Enforcement , reported in 2022 SCC Online SC 1975, which

are as follows: 9. The result of the discussion aforesaid is that the view as taken
 by the Trial Court in this matter had been a justified view of the
 matter and the High Court was not right in setting aside the
 discharge order despite the fact that the accused No. 1 had
 already been acquitted in relation to the scheduled offence and
 the present appellants were not accused of any scheduled
 offence. Attention of the Court was drawn to State of Haryana Vs. Bhajan Lal ,

reported in 1992 Suppl (1) SCC 335, paragraph 102, with emphasis on sub-

paragraphs (3) and (7) which held as follows: In State of Punjab Vs. Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar , reported in (2011)

14 SCC 770 reference was made to, paragraph 107 which states: Petitioner referred to Vineet Kumar -Vs. - State of U.P. reported in

(2017) 13 SCC 369, in order to substantiate its stand and relied upon the

following paragraphs: 24. The judgment of this Court in State of Haryana v. Bhajan
Lal [State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992
SCC (Cri) 426] has elaborately considered the scope and ambit of Section 482 CrPC. Although in the above case this Court was
considering the power of the High Court to quash the entire criminal
proceeding including the FIR, the case arose out of an FIR registered
under Sections 161 , 165 IPC and Section 5(2) of the Prevention of
Corruption Act, 1947. This Court elaborately considered the scope of Section 482 CrPC/Article 226 of the Constitution in the context of
quashing the proceedings in criminal investigation. After noticing
various earlier pronouncements of this Court, this Court enumerated
certain categories of cases by way of illustration where power under Section 482 CrPC can be exercised to prevent abuse of the process
of the Court or secure the ends of justice. **** 26. A three-Judge Bench in State of Karnataka v. M.
Devendrappa [State of Karnataka v. M. Devendrappa, (2002) 3 SCC
89 : 2002 SCC (Cri) 539] had the occasion to consider the ambit of 19 Section 482 CrPC. By analysing the scope of Section 482 CrPC, this
Court laid down that authority of the Court exists for advancement
of justice and if any attempt is made to abuse that authority so as to
produce injustice the Court has power to prevent abuse. It further
held that Court would be justified to quash any proceeding if it finds
that initiation/continuance of it amounts to abuse of the process of
court or quashing of these proceedings would otherwise serve the
ends of justice. The following was laid down in para 6: (SCC p. 94)
"6. ... All courts, whether civil or criminal possess, in the absence of
any express provision, as inherent in their constitution, all such
powers as are necessary to do the right and to undo a wrong in
course of administration of justice on the principle quando lex
aliquid alicui concedit, concedere videtur et id sine quo res ipsae
esse non potest (when the law gives a person anything it gives him
that without which it cannot exist). While exercising powers under
the section, the court does not function as a court of appeal or
revision. Inherent jurisdiction under the section though wide has to
be exercised sparingly, carefully and with caution and only when
such exercise is justified by the tests specifically laid down in the
section itself. It is to be exercised ex debito justitiae to do real and
substantial justice for the administration of which alone courts exist.
Authority of the court exists for advancement of justice and if any
attempt is made to abuse that authority so as to produce injustice,
the court has power to prevent abuse. It would be an abuse of
process of the court to allow any action which would result in
injustice and prevent promotion of justice. In exercise of the powers
court would be justified to quash any proceeding if it finds that
initiation/continuance of it amounts to abuse of the process of court
or quashing of these proceedings would otherwise serve the ends of
justice. When no offence is disclosed by the complaint, the court
may examine the question of fact. When a complaint is sought to be
quashed, it is permissible to look into the materials to assess what 20 the complainant has alleged and whether any offence is made out
even if the allegations are accepted in toto." 27. Further in para 8 the following was stated: ( Devendrappa case [ State of Karnataka v. M. Devendrappa , (2002) 3 SCC 89 : Reliance was placed on Haji Iqbal alias Bala Through S.P.O.A. -Vs. -

State of U.P. & Ors. Reported in 2023 SCC OnLine SC 946 and the attention

of the Court was drawn to the following paragraphs: Dr. Singhvi also emphasized on Mahmood Ali & Ors. -Vs. - State of

U.P. & Ors. Reported in 2023 SCC OnLine SC 950 wherein reliance was

placed in the case of Bhajan Lal (supra) and the principles referred to in Haji

Iqbal (supra) was reiterated. Learned Senior Advocate for the petitioner referred to Neeharika

Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. -Vs.- State of Maharashtra & Ors. reported in 2021

SCC OnLine SC 315 to demonstrate the extent of powers vested in the High

Court under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. While concluding his arguments on behalf of the petitioner learned

Senior Advocate submitted that the petitioner is constrained to prefer the

present petition under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973,

to challenge the unfair and biased investigation that is being conducted by

the Directorate of Enforcement i.e. the opposite party, as against the

petitioner herein and if the same is allowed to continue, it would amount to

grave miscarriage of justice and prejudice the petitioner in respect of the

fishing and roving enquiry and malicious proceeding conducted by the E.D.

 Mr. S. V. Raju, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the

Enforcement Directorate opposed the contention advanced on behalf of the

petitioner. He commenced his argument on the issue relating to the

maintainability of the application and the prayers so advanced therein.

Before proceeding with the issues relating to law as canvased by the learned

Additional Solicitor General, the factual matrix which was summrised in the

written notes of arguments filed by him is set out as follows: 25 Learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that ECIR is merely

an internal document and is not even a statutory document. Therefore it

cannot be quashed. To that effect, learned ASG drew the attention of the

Court to paragraph 457 of Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary & Ors. Vs. Union of

India , reported in 2022 SCC Online 929. The relevant paragraph is set out

as follows : It was contended that the prayer for quashing by any person other

than an accused named in ECIR/FIR/Complaint is not maintainable. The

reliance in this regard was placed in the judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Hukum Chand Garg & Anr. Vs. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. 33 [order dated 07.02.2022 passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in SLP (Crl)

762/2020]. The relevant paragraph is set out as follows : On this issue reference was also made to Sanjay Tiwari Vs. State of

Uttar Pradesh & Anr. reported in 2020 SCC OnLine SC 1027. The relevant

paragraph 11 of the said judgement is set out as follows: Reliance was also placed on Janata Dal Vs. H. S. Chowdhary ,

reported in (1991) 3 SCC 756. The relevant paragraph cited by the Opposite

Party is set out as follows : At the stage of summons a person do not qualify as a 'person

aggrieved' and as such the present petition is premature to that effect

reliance was placed on Kirit Shrimankar Vs. Union of India & Ors. in WP

(Crl.) No. 109/2013, the relevant paragraph of which is set out as follows : Reference was made to Commissioner of Customs, Calcutta & Ors.

Vs. M/s M.M. Exports & Anr. reported in (2010) 15 SCC 647, the relevant

paragraph referred by the Opposite party is set out as follows : Reliance was placed on C.M. Raveendran Vs. Union of India reported

in 2020 SCC OnLine Ker 7555, the relevant paragraph of which is set out as

follows : Learned Additional Solicitor General also relied upon paragraph 143

of the judgement of Virbhadra Singh Vs. Enforcement Directorate reported 37 in 2017 SCC OnLine Del 8930, the relevant paragraph of which is as follows

: Reliance was also placed on Raghav Bahl Vs. Enforcement

Directorate wherein in the order dated 23.01.2023 in W.P. (Crl) 2392/2021,

the Hon'ble Delhi High Court was pleased to hold as follows: **** 14. There is no violation of any fundamental right or even legal
 right of the petitioner warranting interference of this Hon‟ble
 Court at the stage of summons. Reliance is placed on „Virbhadra
 Singh & Anr. vs. Directorate of Enforcement & Anr.‟ 2017 SCC
 OnLine Del 8930...... **** 16. Hence, the prayer for quashing of the ECIR, is premature and
 is hereby rejected." It was further submitted that at the stage of summons, an application

for anticipatory bail is also not maintainable and to that effect the

observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in SLP (Crl.) 4212 of 2019 titled State of Gujarat vs. Choodamani Pareshwaran Iyer was referred to which is

as follows : Additionally, it was submitted that in the present case also the

Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed that the investigation being at the

incipient stage cannot be stultified. Learned Additional Solicitor General contended that the

Investigating Agency has independent powers of enquiry/investigation

which is not dependent on any court orders. Reliance was also placed on State of Bihar vs. J.A.C Saldanha reported in (1980) 1 SCC 554 wherein it was held as follows:- It was submitted that the petitioner has not appeared once before the

Investigating Officer in the primary recruitment scam and has only tried to

avoid the investigation at any cost by filing various applications before the

courts. The petitioner was last summoned on 08.06.2023 to appear on

13.06.2023 along with the documents. However the petitioner decided not

to appear on the said date on the grounds on being busy with campaigning

for the Panchayat elections in the State of West Bengal. It was stated that

the petitioner did not even submit complete documents as has been claimed 41 by him in the revisional application. The documents which were submitted

on 26.06.2023 before the Office of the Enforcement Directorate at Kolkata

was incomplete. The petitioner's action itself speaks that he is not

cooperating with the investigating agency and as such after defying the

summons on the garb of Panchayat elections and political rally, he left for

USA. The action of the petitioner is contrary to the judgement laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Dukhishyam Benupani, AD,

ED(Fera) Vs. Arun Kumar Bajoria reported in (1998) 1 SCC 52, the relevant

paragraph no.7 as relied upon, is as follows: It was also submitted that the Hon'ble Supreme Court has deprecated

the practice of granting blanket no coercive action orders. To that effect

reliance was placed on Union of India vs. Sapna Jain and ors., SLP (Crl)

4322-4324 of 2019; Union of India vs. Padam Narain Agggarwal , (2008) 13

SCC 305; State of Telangana vs. Habib Abdullah Jeelani , (2017) 2 SCC 779; Hema Mishra v. State of U. P , ( 2014) 4 SCC 453; Neeharika Infrastructure

Pvt. Ltd. vs. State of Maharashtra and ors., 2021 SCC OnLine SC 315; the

order dated 5.12.2022 passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in SLP (Crl)

9092 of 2022 titled as Vijaykumar Gopichand Ramachandani vs. Amar

Sadhuram Mulchandani and ors.; The State of Gujarat etc. vs.

Choodamani Parmeshwaram Iyer & Anr. etc SLP(Crl) 4212-4213/2023. The learned Additional Solicitor General on the basis of the aforesaid

judgements and issues stressed by submitting that the petitioner is

attempting to obtain an order of no coercive action as he is apprehending

arrest. However, the grounds so assigned in the application are lacking

merits for any interference by this Court. Mr. Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, learned senior Advocate appearing

for the affected parties submitted that there has been a recruitment scam

which relates to the appointment of teachers. The investigation commenced

on the direction passed by a Co-ordinate Bench exercising its powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The said investigation presently is a

Court monitored investigation wherein Special Investigating Team has been 43 constituted to unearth the mode and manner in which ineligible candidates

were appointed and successful/competent candidates were denied their

rightful claim. It has also been brought to the notice of this Court that the

authorities thickly connected with the education system which includes

Cabinet Minister, the President of Board of Primary Education, senior

functionaries in the education system as also political personalities have

been arrested and detained for their involvement in the scam. The

investigating authorities are working for unearthing the truth. Additionally

it has been submitted that orders are being passed on reports being

submitted in WPA 7907 of 2019 with WPA 9979 of 2022. The investigation

is still in progress and as such in a case where the provisions have been

invoked under Section 482 of Cr.P.C., for ends of justice interference may

not be made. Rebutting the contentions advanced by the learned Additional

Solicitor General and the decisions relied upon by him, Dr. Singhvi, learned

Senior Advocate for the petitioner submitted that the judgement of Kirit

Shrimankar v. Union of India and ors. (supra) is distinguishable both on

facts and law, as the present application is under Section 482 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure and not under Article 32 of the Constitution of India

and in the instant case the quashing has been sought for on malicious

initiations and continuation which is not limited to the roving enquiry being

conducted by the Enforcement Directorate so far as the present petitioner is

concerned. With regard to the reliance in respect of the judgement of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Commissioner of Customs, Calcutta and ors.(supra) it

was submitted on behalf of the petitioner that the case related to a

departmental enquiry and in this case the petitioner has challenged not an

enquiry but an investigation being carried out. Distinguishing the

paragraph relied upon by the Enforcement Directorate in Virbhadra Singh (supra) it was submitted on behalf of the petitioner that the opposite party

has conveniently relied only upon paragraph 143 and not upon paragraph

145 which specifically stated that the case before the Hon'ble Supreme

Court did not relate to political vendetta which is completely different from

the factual circumstances of the case wherein the petitioner has pleaded for

initiation of the case on malice and political vendetta. It was further submitted on behalf of the petitioner that the present

application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been

filed after liberty was granted by the Hon'ble Supreme Court by its order

dated 10.07.2023 and as such, the issue dealt with in Raghav Bahl (supra)

relating to the application being premature is not applicable to the present

case. Paragraph 435 in the case of Vijay Madanlal Choudahry and ors.

(supra) has clearly demarcated between police officials and Enforcement

Directorate officials and, therefore, the judgement of State of Bihar and Anr.

vs. J.A.C Saldhana and ors.(supra) which restricts the powers of the police

to investigate do not apply in the facts and circumstances of the present

case. The judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dukhishyam

Benupani, Asst. Director, Enforcement Directorate vs. Arun Kumar Bajoria 45 (supra) relied upon by the Enforcement Directorate was distinguished by

the petitioner on the facts that the said case related to anticipatory bail

while the present application is being considered under Section 482 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure. It was also submitted that there being

distinction between the FERA, 1973 and the PMLA, 2002, the ratio set out

therein is not applicable to the facts of the present case. Reference to paragraph 86 in King Emperor vs. Khwaja Nazir Ahmad (supra) was also distinguished by contending that the demarcation between

the police officials and Enforcement Directorate Officials have been curved

out in the case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary & ors. (supra) and the same

cannot be made applicable in the present case. Learned advocate for the petitioner also distinguished the

judgements of P. Chidambaram vs. Directorate of Enforcement (supra) and Hema Mishra (supra) which related to Section 438 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure and submitted that each and every case so relied upon by the

Enforcement Directorate are on different set of facts and circumstances and

the petitioner having made out a case of its own which do not have its

genesis on a predicate offence. The judgment so relied upon by the

Enforcement Directorate to substantiate their claim of issuing the summons

is against the settled propositions of law and the same is to be ignored in

the light of the facts which have been set out by the petitioner herein. After completing the arguments initially learned ASG intended to add

to his arguments the issues relating to malice. It was argued that the E.D. 46 having material in its possession is entitled to investigate and the

proceeding cannot be quashed on grounds of malafide, to this aspect

reliance was placed on State of Bihar -Vs. - P.P. Sharma reported in 1992

Supp (1) 222 which is as follows: Additionally reliance was placed on State of Maharashtra -Vs. -

Ishwar Piraji Kalpatri & Ors. reported in (1996) 1 SCC 542 which is as

follows: It has been emphasized on behalf of the E.D. that aforesaid view has

been reiterated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court time and again, as also in the

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal ,

1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 in relation to quashing on the grounds of mala

fides. Reference in this regard was made by drawing the attention of the

Court to the decisions in Monica Kumar (Dr.) v. State of UP , (2008) 8 SCC

781; CBI v. Ravi Shankar Srivastava , (2006) 7 SCC 188; State of A.P. v. U.

Golconda Linga Swamy , (2004) 6 SCC 522 and Parkash Singh Badal v.

State of Punjab, (2007) 1 SCC 1 wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court while

noting the observations in Bhajan Lal (Supra) has refused to quash

proceedings on the ground of mala fides. Dr. Singhvi in order to refute the contentions advanced on behalf of

the E.D. relied upon the following factual circumstances which in a tabular

form was placed in his written notes of arguments. The same is set out as

follows: ii. In fact, the raid ended at 05:55 hrs on 22.08.2023,
 which shows the Opposite Party had illegally
 camped itself at the said office for over additional
 six hours unauthorizedly. The employees of Leaps
 & Bounds Pvt Ltd were wrongfully restrained
 from leaving the office and going home for the
 said six hours. 4. 22.08.2023 INSTANCE NO.4
 i. The raiding officers of the Opposite Party deliberately
 downloaded foreign files and clandestinely altered
 data of one of the computers of Leaps & Bounds
 Pvt. Ltd. ii. The Opposite Party seeks to defend such illegal acts
 by giving an undertaking before this Court that
 the concerned electronic devices in which the 50 foreign files were downloaded has not been seized
 and that they shall not use it as evidence in any
 proceeding. iii. Notwithstanding the undertaking given by Opposite
 Party, the aforesaid illegal action of ED officers
 reeks of malice. 5. 22.08.2023 INSTANCE NO.5
 i. The aforesaid foreign files illegally downloaded by the
 officers of Opposite Party during raid seems to be related
 to an educational institution, whereas the Opposite Party
 is also investigating the petitioner in connection with a
 scam purported to be related to the education department.
 ii. It is not uncommon for a particular premises to be
 raided multiple times by the same investigating agency or
 by another one. iii. Therefore, there is no clarity as to what could have
 induced the officers of the opposite party to leave such
 education related documents in the electronic devices.
 iv. It leaves enough apprehension for the petitioner to
 believe that such files/data/documents/ information were
 purposely left behind for another raiding party to stumble
 upon the same and cause unwarranted harassment to the
 petitioner. 6. 23.08.2023 INSTANCE NO.6
 i. The Opposite Party's malice is evident from its action of
 publishing and circulating a press release dated
 23.08.2023, in which they maliciously stated that the
 company wherein the petitioner serves as the CEO, is
 involved in the alleged scam which runs into crores of
 rupees without any investigation, trial or judgment passed
 by a competent court. ii. Such publication not only jeopardizes the pending 51 investigation but it is de hors the established position of
 law. iii. The said Press Release is specifically intended to
 assassinate Petitioner's character and discredit his
 political actions. iv. The said Press Release also encourages media trial and
 create mass hysteria against the Petitioner. v. Hence, such press release is not only misleading and
 frustrates the pending investigation, but it also intends to
 demonize the petitioner and garner public sentiment
 against him. 7. 26.08.2023 INSTANCE NO.7
 i. The Opposite Party's conduct is more suspicious as it
 didn't inform the Petitioner about the illegal downloading
 of files for almost 4 days since the raid. ii. However, when an employee of Leaps & Bounds Pvt.
 Ltd. discovered the said illegal downloads in the computer
 it immediately lodged a criminal complaint before the
 Police. iii. Thereafter, the Opposite Party deemed it fit to send an
 email dated 26.08.2023 justifying its illegal acts and stated
 that: In this regard, it is stated that the contents of the opposite
 party's letter are false, make belief and a desperate
 attempt at salvaging its illegal acts. The whole premises
 and the computer devices were under the full control of
 the opposite party and its officials. This creates doubts
 about the real intention behind such downloads. Furthermore, the opposite party has stated that one of
 their team members were checking the status of hostel
 accommodation for his daughter. However, interestingly, it
 has been brought to light that the opposite party's officer
 was browsing hostel allotment lists for men's hostels. As
 such, it is absurd that an officer would be searching for
 men's hostel for his daughter and the same does not make
 any sense. 8. 26.08.2023 INSTANCE NO.8
 i. The Opposite Party in its Letter dated 26.08.2023
 intentionally suppressed and/or failed to mention in its
 letter dated 26.08.2023 that Ms. Sushmita Chakraborty, of
 Leaps & Bounds Pvt. Ltd., had left at about 10:15 hrs., on
 21.08.2023. ii. On the contrary, in paragraph 3 of the said letter, the
 opposite party claimed that "while the search operation
 was about to conclude, one team member had checked the
 status of hostel accommodation... on the office computer,
 installed at the office premises of Ms. Leaps & Bounds
 Private Limited in the presence of staff of the company."
 ii. However, such statement is incorrect, and a premier
 investigating agency ought not to have withheld the fact
 that Ms. Sushmita Chakraborty had left long before one of
 the officers decided to tamper with the computer system. 9. NA INSTANCE NO.9
 i. The Digital Evidence Investigation Manual (hereinafter 53 referred to as "DEI Manual") as prepared by the Central
 Board of Direct Taxes, Department of Revenue, Ministry of
 Finance expressly mentions in Chapter 8 which discuses
 "Guidelines for Documentation and Seizure of
 Digital Evidences" at page 88 in paragraph 8.2 by stating
 that: ii. It is evident from Pachamama dated 22.08.2023, that
 the Opposite Party has deliberately and illegally chosen
 not to calculate the Hash Value of the seized electronic
 device/hard disk drive that is presently in custody of the
 opposite party, contrary to DEI Manual. iii. Hence, the Opposite Party has deliberately created the
 scope for tampering and/or introduced malware and/or
 altering the date contained in the hard disk drive. 10 10.09.2023 INSTANCE NO. 10 . i. While Opposite Party has failed to show any material
 against the petitioner or even the case diary, but while the
 instant criminal revisional application is subjudice before
 this Hon'ble Court, the Opposite Party has served the
 petitioner with a fresh Summons dated 10.09.2023 under Section 50 (2) and (3) of the PMLA. ii. As per the said Summons, the petitioner has been
 directed to appear before the Opposite Party on
 13.09.2023 to give evidence. iii. It is apposite to mention that the petitioner has not
 only challenged the entire investigation, but also the
 previous Summons issued to him by the opposite party 54 under Section 50 (2) and (3) of PMLA. iv. While the instant case was being argued, specific
 submissions have been made on behalf of the Opposite
 Party that the petitioner cannot challenge the previously
 issued Summons since they have become infructuous due
 to elapse of time. v. However, while trying to bypass the petitioner's
 challenge in the courtroom, the Opposite Party's issuance
 of fresh Summons is bad in law. vi. While this Hon'ble Court is yet to determine the fate of
 not only the entire investigation qua the petitioner and
 also the legality of the previously Summons, the opposite
 party has attempted to overreach this Hon'ble Court's
 majesty. It was additionally submitted that the Enforcement Directorate has

statutory right to investigate into the money trail leading to the proceeds of

crime but in this case despite repeated queries from the court, the

Enforcement Directorate did not produce any materials to show/relate any

money trail which has been prima facie established so far as the present

petitioner is concerned. Apart from the submissions and counter-submissions advanced on

behalf of the petitioner and the E.D. the other facts which require

consideration is that what are the materials produced before this Court

from which it has to be inferred whether the application under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. is justified to be interfered with or to what extent if any such

prayers can be considered. The E.D. has referred only to the 4th Supplementary complaint which

has been filed before the Special Court and drawn the attention of this

Court to Page 40 which is in respect of the statement of a co-accused

namely Sujay Krishna Bhadra. The relevant paragraph as appearing in the

complaint is quoted below: The petitioner also took out an application being CRAN 1 of 2023

wherein he submitted to be the ex-director of Leaps & Bounds Pvt. Ltd. and

continued there till 31.01.2014, subsequently he has been serving as the

CEO of the said company. In the application it has been contended that a

search and seizure operation was carried out on 21.08.2023 (started at

11.35 am) and continued till 22.08.2023 (till 6.00 am). The said application

was taken out alleging that in respect of the computer systems whose Hard

Disk Drives were not seized by the Opposite Party/E.D., 16 new Microsoft

Excel files were downloaded and introduced in the computer system. To

that extent a general diary entry was lodged, the hard disk was seized by

the Cyber Cell of Kolkata Police and the same were sent to CFSL, Kolkata. 56 The E.D. took a plea that the same was accidental as one of its Officers were

searching for hostel accommodation for his child and inadvertently the said

files may have been downloaded. On the other hand the petitioner's took the

plea of malice as subsequently some other Central Agency could have

conducted search and considered the same to be a part of the 'Teachers

Recruitment Scam' leading to further harassment as the list(s) only

consisted names of students in the downloaded files. However, after CFSL,

Kolkata gave its opinion the Investigating Officer gave an undertaking that

these materials will not be used in any investigation. The approach of the

E.D. Officers were casual but the Court had to intervene to stop canvassing

and stretch the issue as the core subject relating to the present application

under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. was being deviated towards the end of the

hearing. Now, so far as the mainstream argument is concerned the spirit of

petitioner's argument is the apprehension arising out of the previous

instances of being harassed or inconvenience caused to him or his family

members based on instances which have been cited on his behalf. The

petitioner as such apprehended that the Enforcement Directorate may

behave as police authorities pursuant to the directions passed by the High

Court in its order dated 13.04.2023 and 18.05.2023. This is the reason why

Dr. Singhvi on facts repeatedly canvassed that there cannot be any relation

between the 'speech of the petitioner', 'letter of Kuntal Ghosh' and 'proceeds

of crime' as defined under the PMLA. On the other hand the Enforcement

Directorate has tried to disown such contentions of the petitioner and 57 maintained their stand that the notice under Section 50 of PMLA issued is

in relation to the Teachers Recruitment Scam. So far as Teachers Recruitment Scam which has been referred to in

this case the investigation of the case is in progress as such the stage at

which the petitioner approached this Court challenging ECIR/KLZO-

II/19/2022 was prematured compared to the present stage as in between

admittedly petitioner attended the Office of E.D. pursuant to the summons

being issued. Further search and seizure has also been carried out in an

office where he admits to be an Ex-director and present CEO. The material which was only produced by E.D. before this Court is

the statement of Sujay Krishna Bhadra, a co-accused. In an order dated 29.08.2023 in WPA 7907 of 2019 with WPA 9979 of

2022 The Hon'ble Justice Amrita Sinha was pleased to hold as follows: The same Hon'ble Court in an order dated 14.09.2023 was pleased to

pass the following directions: In view of the aforesaid order dated 14.09.2023 passed in WPA 7907

of 2019 with WPA 9979 of 2022 there has been complete change of

circumstance from the stage when the petitioner approached this Court

when the agony was the summon issued by the E.D. on 08.06.2023. The E.D. in this case before this Court has relied upon only the 4th

Supplementary Complaint. As such, except the statement of Sujay Krishna

Bhadra (an accused who is in custody) no materials were produced by E.D.

before this Court to relate the petitioner with the ECIR under challenge.

Having regard to the same I direct that no coercive measures would be

taken against the petitioner by the E.D. without adhering to Section 19 of

the PMLA, 2002 as explained in paragraph 39 of the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in V. Senthil Balaji -Vs. - State Represented by

Deputy Director & Ors. reported in 2023 SCC OnLine SC 934, for the

purposes of convenience which is set out as follows: So far as the prayer for quashing of ECIR/KLZO-II/19/2022, I am of

the view that the stage at which the petitioner approached this Court was

prematured compared to the present stage of investigation and as such the

same cannot be interfered with. With the aforesaid observations CRR 2653 of 2023 is disposed of.

 Pending connected application, if any, is consequently disposed of.

 All concerned parties shall act on the server copy of this order duly

downloaded from the official website of this Court. Urgent photostat certified copy of this order, if applied for, be

supplied to the parties upon compliance with all requisite formalities. (Tirthankar Ghosh, J.)