(a)in case of a licence to drive a transport vehicle to be
 effective for a period of five years: Postal receipts do not specifically mention the correct address of
respondent no.1 and 2. Thus no assumption can be drawn regarding service
of notice. 49. Considering the evidence as discussed above, question for
consideration would be whether non endorsement of authorization to drive
transport vehicle with hazardous goods is a substantive breach of terms of
the insurance policy, entitling the insurance company to pay and recover
from the owner of the offending vehicle. In the case of third party risks, as
per the decision in National Insurance Company Ltd. v. Swaran Singh and
others (2004) 3 SCC 297, the insurer had to indemnify the compensation
amount payable to the third party and the insurance company may recover
the same from the insured. Doctrine of "pay and recover" was considered
by the Supreme Court in Swaran Singh case wherein the Supreme Court
examined the liability of the insurance company in cases of breach of
policy condition due to disqualifications of the driver or invalid driving
licence of the driver and held that in case of third party risks, the insurer
has to indemnify the compensation amount to the third party and the
insurance company may recover the same from the insured. Elaborately
considering the insurer's contractual liability as well as statutory liability
vis-a-vis the claims of third parties, the Supreme Court issued detailed
guidelines as to how and in what circumstances, "pay and recover" can be
ordered. In para (110), the Supreme Court summarized its conclusions as
under:- section (3) of Section 168 of the Act the insured fails to deposit
 the amount awarded in favour of the insurer within thirty days
 from the date of announcement of the award by the Tribunal. (xi) The provisions contained in sub-section (4) with the
 proviso thereunder and sub-section (5) which are intended to
 cover specified contingencies mentioned therein to enable the
 insurer to recover the amount paid under the contract of
 insurance on behalf of the insured can be taken recourse to by
 the Tribunal and be extended to claims and defences of the
 insurer against the insured by relegating them to the remedy
 before regular court in cases where on given facts and
 circumstances adjudication of their claims inter se might delay
 the adjudication of the claims of the victims." 50. Thus in view of the guidelines of Apex Court as enumerated
above, this Tribunal is of considered view that even if witness R3W1 has
not been cross examined on behalf of owner, driver of the offending
vehicle, still the breach in the shape of non endorsement of authorization to
drive hazardous goods vehicle, would not be considered to be a substantive
breach as it is not the case of even insurance company that respondent no.1
was not having valid DL. He had valid DL to drive transport vehicle,
therefore in such circumstances considering the peculiar evidence as
discussed above, it is directed that liability to pay the compensation is on
the insurance company without any right to recover the same from
respondent no.1 and 2. Relief 51. This Tribunal awards a compensation of Rs.18,41,883/- to the
petitioner along with interest @ 8% per annum from the date of filing of
petition till realization to be paid by the respondent no.3/insurance Digitally signed MACT No.2357/2016 by SHAILENDER
 SHAILENDER MALIK Page 27
 MALIK Date: 2024.05.31
 16:49:27 +0530
 company. Amount of interim award, if any, be deducted from the
compensation amount along with the waiver of interest, if any, as directed
by the Tribunal during the pendency of this case. The respondent no.3 is
directed to deposit the award amount in A/c no.20780110171912 (IFSC
Code UCBA0002078), UCO Bank, Karkardooma, Delhi, of PO MACT,
Shahdara, through RTGS/ NEFT, within 30 days from today. The
respondent no.3 is also directed to give notice regarding deposit of the said
amount to the petitioner. Disbursement of Award Amount 52. Out of awarded amount, a sum of Rs.1,84,883/- is directed to
be released into the saving account of the petitioner and remaining amount
of Rs.16,57,000/- along with the interest on the entire award amount is
directed to be kept with UCO Bank, Karkardooma Courts, Delhi in Motor
Accident Claims Annuity Deposit (MACAD) in the form FDR (fixed
deposit receipt) to be prepared in the name of petitioner for seven years
with monthly accruing interest. The amount of FDR on maturity shall
directly be released in petitioner's MACT Saving Bank Account.
Direction to the petitioner 53. The petitioner shall open a saving bank account near the place
of his residence. Further, the bank of petitioner is directed to comply with
the following conditions: 54. File be consigned to Record Room.