1. By way of present application under Section 482 of the Bharatiya
 Nyaya Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short "BNSS"), the applicant - accused
 No.2 has prayed to grant her anticipatory bail in the event of her arrest in
 connection with the FIR being C.R. No.1118608241848 of 2024
 registered with Una Police Station, Gir-Somnath, for the offences
 punishable under Sections 119(1), 351(2), 77 and 54 of BNS and Sections
 66(e) and 67(a) of Information Technology Act. 2. The case of the prosecution is that, accused Nos. 1 and 2, with an
 intent to extort money from the complainant, visited her hospital and
 talked about her off-scene video demanding money. They further
 threatened that if she did not fulfill with their demand, the video would
 be made viral on social media. In response, the complainant informed
 them that she would file a complaint with Cyber Crime police. This
 provoked accused No.2, who slapped the complainant and caused her
 injuries. Additionally, with the intent to defame and tarnish the
 complainant's reputation, the accused later on viral the private video by
 labeling her as a "popular doctor of Gir-Somnath District" on YouTube. Based on these events, the FIR was filed, alleging the commission of the
 offenses as mentioned in FIR. 3. Learned counsel appearing for the applicant submits that the
 applicant has nothing to do with the alleged offence and has falsely been
 implicated in the offence. There is delay of 25 days in registration of FIR;
 merely the applicant being wife of the accused No.1 who happens to be a
 press reporter in Gujarat National TV and just to take revenge with the
 husband of the applicant, she has been arraigned as an accused; that
 earlier when the complainant has given written complaint before Cyber
 Crime Police Station, the applicant was called by police and recorded her
 statement, but in the written complaint, she has not even alleged that
 the applicant has ever been beaten the complainant and not even asked
 for extortion of money. He has further submitted that, on the contrary,
 when the news of the said video got viral on new channel and being a
 reporter of the news channel, accused No.1 went to the hospital of the
 complainant but the complainant got angry and asked to file a complaint
 and accordingly, impugned FIR has been filed. Further, considering the
 fact that the applicant is lady accused and nature of the offence, she may
 be granted anticipatory bail by imposing suitable conditions. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant further submits that whatever
 allegation made against the applicant is that, she being wife of accused
 No1, went to the hospital along with her husband, except this, no role is
 attributed to the present applicant. He further submitted that the nature
 of allegations are such for which custodial interrogation at this stage is
 not necessary. 5. Learned APP appearing for the respondent-State has opposed the
 present application and contended that the applicant and her husband,
 with an intent to extort money, went to the complainant's hospital,
 intimated about her off-scene video, and demanded money. The accused Page 2 of 7 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Fri Jan 10 2025 Downloaded on : Fri Jan 10 23:10:04 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/24264/2024 ORDER DATED: 08/01/2025

 undefined

 further threatened that, if she did not comply, her private video would be
 made viral on social media. Subsequently, the accused returned and
 called the complainant, but the complainant did not pick up their calls.
 On the next day, the accused again visited the hospital and offered for
 settlement, provided the complainant did not file a complaint with Cyber
 Crime. Meanwhile, the applicant became angry, slapped the complainant
 and video was subsequently made viral with the title "well-known doctor
 of Gir-Somnath District". He has argued that the accused have committed
 the offenses as mentioned in the FIR. He further submitted that the
 investigation is still ongoing, and if the applicant is granted anticipatory
 bail, there is a likelihood of evidence being tampered with and witnesses
 being influenced. Therefore, he contended that this is not a case where
 anticipatory bail should be granted. 6. Learned APP further contended that, the applicant has played
 active participation, slapped the complainant and threatened the
 complainant to viral her video and thus, the applicant is the main culprit
 and has actively participated in the offence. He has further submitted
 that two offences have already been registered against the applicant and
 eight offences have been registered against her husband. Considering
 the same, present application may not be considered. He further
 submitted that, notice was issued under Section 35 of BNSS to the
 applicant, but she has not joined investigation. 7. The allegation against the applicant is that she along with her
 husband (accused No.1), who is a journalist by profession, approached
 the complainant with an intent to extort money. They allegedly
 demanded money by threatening to expose an alleged off-scene video of
 the complainant. When the complainant responded that she would file a
 complaint with the Cyber Crime police, they left the hospital and called
 the complainant, but the complainant did not pick up their call. Then, the Page 3 of 7 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Fri Jan 10 2025 Downloaded on : Fri Jan 10 23:10:04 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/24264/2024 ORDER DATED: 08/01/2025

 undefined

 accused approached the complainant again and offered for settlement if
 money would be paid and if she will refuse, her video would be made
 viral on social media. In response, the complainant stated that she would
 file a complaint with Cyber Crime. This provoked accused No. 2, who then
 slapped the complainant, causing her injuries. Subsequently, a video was
 published on social media, defaming the complainant's reputation. 8. Having heard the learned counsel for the respective parties and
 perusing the material placed on record, it appears that the complainant
 is a doctor by profession and runs a hospital in Una Taluka. Accused No.1
 is a press reporter, and the applicant is his wife. The record indicates that
 the applicant has two previous criminal antecedents, while her husband
 (accused No. 1) has eight antecedents. Being involved in journalism, the
 applicant and her husband allegedly put the complainant under fear and
 demanded money, thereby attempting to extort money. The applicant is
 facing charges of abetment and voyeurism. The complainant is a
 respected lady doctor in Una Taluka, and the applicant and her husband
 are accused of circulating off-scene video on social media and in print
 media. The said content and video material need to be recovered, and
 custodial interrogation is therefore required for this purpose.
 Considering the active participation and involvement of the applicant, it
 cannot be said that the complaint was filed with an intent to humiliate or
 tarnish the applicant's image. 9. The offence is punishable with imprisonment for up to 7 years.
 However, considering the provisions of the Information Technology Act ,
 the off-scene material in question violates the privacy of a well-known
 lady doctor and her husband, damaging their reputation and professional
 status. This material was not only captured, but was intentionally
 captured, published, and transmitted. If this material is not recovered,
 there is a possibility that the offence may be repeated, continuing the Page 4 of 7 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Fri Jan 10 2025 Downloaded on : Fri Jan 10 23:10:04 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/24264/2024 ORDER DATED: 08/01/2025

 undefined

 breach of doctor's privacy. A prior complaint was filed with the Cyber
 Crime Police, but it was anonymous, and to protect her reputation, the
 complainant did not reveal her identity. Subsequently, following the
 guidance from Cyber Crime Police, the complainant approached the local
 police station, resulting in the filing of the impugned FIR. Therefore,
 there was no delay in the registration of the FIR. 10. In the aforesaid background and considering the grievance raised
 by learned APP, the off-scene material must be recovered to protect
 both the complainant's interests and societal interests. As the applicant
 has not joined investigation, learned APP has raised voice that the
 application be dismissed on the ground that the applicant has not
 complied with the notice issued under Section 35 of BNSS. 11. Per contra, learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that,
 no notice is received and the applicant has already joined investigation
 and recorded her statement before Cyber Cell. But it is pertinent to note
 that, considering the submissions made by learned APP and going
 through the record, it appears that, Cyber Cell has transferred complaint
 to local police station and they have not investigated the offence. In view
 of the same, after service of notice of concerned police station qua the
 complaint, the applicant did not remain present and not joined
 investigation. Hence, arguments canvassed by Mr.Chan to the effect that
 the applicant has joined investigation is not acceptable. It is needless to
 say that once notice under Section 35 of BNSS has been issued, a person
 failes to comply with the same, then under Section 35(6) , investigating
 officer is entitled to make arrest of a person. Even learned APP on
 instructions has submitted that, in connection with the earlier complaint
 made by the complainant, no statement either of the applicant or any
 accused has been recorded. In view of the same, the applicant is not
 entitled to seek anticipatory bail. 12. In the case of Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre vs State Of
 Maharashtra , reported in (2011) 1 SCC 694, the Hon'ble Court held that
 life and personal liberty are the most prized possessions of an individual
 but not at the cost of larger interest of society and public. This is not a
 case, wherein accused is falsely enroped in the offence with a view to
 tarnish his image. Considering the aforesaid fact, custodial interrogation
 is required. 13. Herein, I have gone through the material available against the
 accused very carefully, from which, it reveals that no complaint has been
 made with view to humiliating or tarnish the image of the present
 applicant. This Court has also relied on the law laid down by the Hon'ble
 Apex Court in Jai Prakash Singh V/s State of Bihar and another,
 reported in ( 2012) 4 SCC 379, and Pratibha Manchanda vs The State of
 Haryana , reported in AIR 2023 SC 3307. 14. The object of anticipatory bail is that person should not be
 harassed or humiliated in order to satisfy the grudge or personal
 vendetta of the complainant. In present case, no any such sort of
 allegation or bias is found out it is needless to say that order under
 Section 482 of BNSS is not a passport to the commission of trial nor a
 shield against any serious accusation, which adversely affects the society. 15. This Court is of the considered view that if the present accused is
 equipped with protective order, it would obviously adversely affect the
 case of the prosecution and the qualitative investigation as the applicant
 is absconding, having trained legal mind and she will tamper with
 evidence and witnesses of prosecution. 16. In the above facts and circumstances and considering the
 observations on the legal aspect of the matter, this Court has absolutely
 no doubt that if applicant is equipped with such an order before she is
 interrogated by the Police, it would greatly harm the investigation and
 would impede the prospects of unearthing all the ramifications involved
 in the conspiracy. Having considered nature and seriousness of the
 charge, prima facie involvement of accused and possibility of tempering
 with evidences, it does not appear to be just and proper to exercise the
 discretion in favour of the applicant and accordingly, this application for
 anticipatory bail is dismissed. However, it is needless to say that, the
 observations made in this order are tentative in nature. 17. However, considering that the applicant is a lady and the gravity of
 the offence, if the applicant is willing to join the investigation, the
 investigating officer is directed to scrupulously follow the provisions of Section 35 of the BNSS, as well as the law laid down by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the cases of Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar , reported
 in (2014) 8 SCC 273; Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of
 Investigation & Anr. , reported in (2022) 10 SCC 51; and Md. Asfak
 Alam v. State of Jharkhand and Anr. , reported in 2023 SCC OnLine SC 892. If the investigating officer makes out a case for arrest, the
 concerned Magistrate must consider the case on merit before
 authorizing the detention of the applicant. (HASMUKH D. SUTHAR,J)

 SUCHIT Page 7 of 7 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Fri Jan 10 2025 Downloaded on : Fri Jan 10 23:10:04 IST 2025