This petition seeks a direction to the respondent to register a case on the complaint of the petitioner dated 30.11.2010. 2. The petitioner has preferred a complaint with the respondent on 30.11.2010, informing that he was the Manager of a concern by name M/s. Jack Communications and that the accused had issued a cheque in favour of the Managing Director of the Company in a sum of Rs.5 crores, which was due from him under business transactions. As security he had handed over title deeds to property. The cheque which was dated 15.10.2010, had been returned unpaid on 22.10.2010. The accused came along with some unknown persons on 30.11.2010 and informed that he was most sorry for the return of cheque 'unpaid' and that if the document of title was shown to him he immediately would arrange for payment of the sum due. Taken in by the polite conduct of the accused, the complainant took the accused to his room and showed him the concerned documents, with the concurrence of the Managing Director. When the accused was going through the documents one Vasu came to the complainant's room. The complainant spoke to the said Vasu for some time and went to the bathroom and on coming back, found the accused missing. On enquiry, the said Vasu informed that such persons had just gone down. Immediately, the complainant told Vasu that the accused were doing away with the documents and they were to be stopped. When Vasu intercepted the car of accused Velayutham and asked for the document, some unidentifiable persons showed a knife, informed that they would murder him, pushed him down and went away. The said complaint was entered into the Community Service Register of the respondent under No.247 of 2010 only on 02.12.2010. According to the petitioner, no action whatsoever was taken by the respondent and hence, the petitioner has filed this petition seeking a direction for registration of a case. 3. This Court has heard Sri. N.R. Elango, Senior Counsel for the petitioner, Sri. A. Ramesh, Senior Counsel who sought to intervene on behalf of the accused as also learned Additional Public Prosecutor. 4. The crux of the submission of learned senior counsel for the petitioner is that a bare reading of the complaint discloses cognizable offences and therefore the respondent was duty bound to register a case thereupon. The present was a case, where mere conduct of a petition enquiry was not justified, the respondent police were acting in aid of the accused and though a larger question of whether the conduct of a preliminary enquiry by police was justifiable in the eye of law, was pending decision of the Apex Court in Lalita Kumari v.Government of U.P. & Ors., this Court could, if satisfied, that the complaint disclosed necessary ingredients, direct the registration of a case. Learned senior counsel would object to representation being made on behalf of the accused, stating that at the stage of registration of a case, the accused could have no say. 5. Learned Senior Counsel for the intervenor/ accused submitted that in the event of non-registration of a case on the complaint, the petitioner could not move this Court for a direction therefor under section 482 CrPC and the proper remedy for the petitioner would be to follow the procedure provided in the Cr.P.C . He may make a representation to a senior police official, seek a Magisterial direction for investigation or prefer a private complaint as provided for, under Sections 154(2) , 156 (3) and 200 Cr.P.C. Learned senior counsel also raised a contention that since no case has been registered on the complaint of the petitioner, the intervener cannot be treated as an accused and on such reasoning also the intervener would have the right to intervene. This contention readily was repulsed by senior counsel for petitioner stating that if that be so, no Court upon receipt of the complaint could direct investigation upon 156(3) Cr.P.C without hearing the person complained against. As some documents were referred to, by learned senior counsel for the intervenor/accused, learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that the defence documents presently could not be considered. 6. Though the petition stands filed seeking a direction for registration of a case, both senior counsels have raised strenuous contentions on the stage at which an accused may be heard. This Court considers it necessary to enter upon such issue and render a finding thereupon. 7. Learned senior counsel for the intervenor placed reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Divine Retreat Centre v. State of Kerala , (2008) 3 SCC 542., wherein the Apex Court was pleased to observe as follows : 8. This decision was followed in D. Venkatasubramaniam & Ors. v. M.K. Mohan Krishmamachari & anr., (2009)4 MLJ (Crl.) 347 (SC). It immediately is to be informed that the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Divine Retreat Centre and D. Venkatasubramaniam & Ors., came in very particular and peculiar circumstances and the observations therein cannot be treated as being of universal application. We say so because, the Divine Retreat Centre case was one where, the High Court directed investigation of a particular case to be taken away from the Investigating Officer and required that the investigation be entrusted to a Special Investigating team headed by a particular CBI police official. Such official was also required to investigate on various allegations levelled in an anonymous petition. The orders of the High Court came to be passed in suo motu proceedings initiated on the basis of an anonymous petition addressed to a particular Judge. 9. The facts surrounding such case are found in the decision of the Honourable Apex Court: 10. Dealing with the judgment of the High Court, the Honourable Apex Court had referred to various decisions to inform that investigation was a sphere reserved for the police and when the same was done in keeping with the procedure prescribed in the Code, the Court could not interfere. Paragraph 34 of the said judgment reads as follows : 11. Thus, the above makes abundantly clear that in general circumstances, the statutory power and duty to investigate lies with the police. Again, in paragraph 46 of such judgment, the Supreme Court had observed as follows : 12. Though other issues such as an impropriety of directing investigation to ascertain whether a person has committed an offence or not and whether an anonymous petition could be treated as a public interest litigation, as also the importance of roster was gone into, the same need not be dealt with, for the purpose of the present case. Suffice it to say, in the words of Hon'ble Supreme Court itself: 13. The case in D. Venkatasubramaniam & Ors. v. M.K. Mohan Krishmamachari & anr., (2009)4 MLJ (Crl.) 347 (SC) was one wherein the exercise of powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. had disastrous consequences to the persons accused. To inform the facts, circumstances and effect of the order passed under Section 482 Cr.P.C., this Court may reproduce the relevant paragraphs of the judgment of the Honourable Apex Court. Paragraph Nos. 10, 11 and 15 read as follows: 14. The Honourable Apex Court discussed the principles enunciated in Emperor v. Khwaja Nazir Ahmad ( 1945) 1 MLJ 86, State of West Bengal v. S.N.Basak , AIR 1963 SC 447, State of Bihar v. J.A.C. Saldanha (1980) 1 MLJ (Crl) 382, M.C.Mehta (Taj Corridor Scam) v. Union of India (2007) 1 SCC 110, largely to inform that investigation into crime was the prerogative of the police. It is in the particular circumstances of the case that His Lordship reiterated the observations in paragraph No.51 of his judgment in the Divine Retreat Centre case. 15. In Union of India and another v. W.N.Chadha (1993) SCC (Cri) 1171 it inter alia was contended that a Special Judge had no jurisdiction to issue a letter rogatory unless he prima facie was satisfied of the involvement of the accused persons whose property or rights were sought to be affected and as such was a condition precedent, the Special Judge could exercise its jurisdiction only after giving prior notice and after affording reasonable opportunity of being heard to the named accused. Observing that the question was not whether audi alteram partem is implicit but whether the occasion for its attraction exists at all, the Honourable Apex Court held as follows: (underlining ours) 16. In any event, the issue is not res integra. A four Judge Bench of the Honourable Apex Court in Chandra Deo Singh v. Prokash Chandra Bose alias Chabi Bose and another AIR (1963) SC 1430, has informed as follows: 17. This Court acutely is conscious that it has elaborately extracted chapter and verse of the judgments of the Honourable Apex Court. We have been impelled to do so towards informing the rare circumstance wherein notice to the accused was found necessary and that notice to the accused at the stage of investigation/ prior to taking cognizance upon complaint was foreign to criminal law. 18. Reverting to the prayer in the present petition, it is to be stated that two sets of decision of Honourable Apex Court stand informed in the judgment of this Court in A.Sowfila v. The Commissioner of Police, Madurai City and others (2008) 2 L.W. (Crl.) 843. Decisions in All India Institute of Medical Sciences Employees' Union (Regd.) v. Union of India ( 1996) 11 SCC 582, Gangadhar Janardan Mhatre v. State of Maharashtra (2004) 7 SCC 768, Minu Kumari v. State of Bihar (2006) 4 SCC 359, Hari Singh v. State of U.P. ( 2006) 5 SCC 733, Sakiri Vasu v. State of U.P. ( 2008) AIR SCW 309 and Aleque Padamsee v. Union of India (2007) 3 SCC (Cri.) 1, indicate that the proper procedure upon non-registration of a case on a complaint preferred before the police would be to take resort to 154(3), 156(3) or 200 Cr.P.C ., while those in Mohindro v. State of Punjab (2002) SCC (Cri.) 1087, Ramesh Kumari v. State of (N.C.T. of Delhi) and others (2006) 2 Supreme 243, Lallan Chaudhary v. State of Bihar ( 2006) 12 SCC 229 and Rajinder Singh Kotoch v. Chandigarh Administration (2008) 1 M.L.J. (Cri.) 488 (SC), support the issue of direction by this Court to the police to register a case. 19. Thus, the decision of this Court eventually would depend upon the facts and circumstances of a particular case. In the instant case, this Court finds that the respondent informs of having conducted a petition enquiry and closing the same as 'mistake of fact'. In such circumstance, no useful purpose would be served in passing a direction as prayed for. 20. In the result, the Criminal Original Petition stands dismissed. Consequently, the connected miscellaneous petition is closed. avr/gm

To 1.The Inspector of Police
T-6, Police Station
Avadi, Chennai -54. 2.The Additional Public Prosecutor 
 High Court of Madras