The case of the Prosecution against accused Dheeraj S/o
Shri Kishan Singh is that on 15.11.2018 at about 9.30 pm, at
Ashok Nagar Thekha, Jyoti Nagar, Delhi within the jurisdiction
of PS Jyoti Nagar, accused was found in possession of one
country made pistol( desi katta) with two live cartridges without
having any licence or permit to keep the same and had in

State vs. Dheeraj Digitally
 signed by
FIR No. 410/2018 RAHUL RAHUL SAINI

U/s 25 Arms Act SAINI
 Date: 2. After investigation, charge-sheet was filed against the
Accused on 14.01.2019 whereupon Cognizance was taken in this
matter on 28.01.2019. The copy of charge-sheet was supplied to
the accused on his appearance and charge was framed against the
Accused under Section 25 Arms Act on 11.04.2019 to which he
pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 3. Subsequently, Prosecution evidence was led and in order to
prove its version, Prosecution has cited 08 witnesses out of which
prosecution has examined four witnesses. PW1: Ct. Mohit Tomar:- He deposed that on 15.11.2018,
at abut 7.40 pm, in night a secret informer came in PS and met
SI Amrender Singh and told him that a wanted criminal namely
Dheeraj will come at liquor shop, Ashok Nagar who was carrying
illegal weapon and if raided, he could be apprehended.
Thereafter, this information discussed by SI Amrnder Singh and
produced the secret informer before SHO. Thereafter, the SHO directed for raid and SI Amrender
Singh shared this information with him and Ct. Nitin. After that
SI Amrender Singh prepared the raiding party and at about 8.15
pm, reached the liquor shop Ashok Nagar where SI Amrender
had requested 4-5 public persons to join investigation but none
agreed. Thereafter, at about 9.30 pm, secret informer pointed out
towards the accused Dheeraj and secret informer left the spot
immediately and they apprehended the accused. After that, SI
 Digitally
 signed by
 RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
 SAINI Date: Amrender Singh searched the accused persons and found one
country made pistol in the left dub of the pant and this country
made pistol was opened with the help of safety catch and found
one live cartridge in the country made pistol and found one live
cartridge in the right pocket of the pant of the accused. Thereafter, IO prepared the sketch of the country made
pistol which is Ex. PW1/A and then kept the case property in the
transparent plastic box and prepared the pullanda and same was
sealed with the seal of RK. Seal after use was handed over to
him. He further deposed that IO took the case property in police
possession and prepared the seizure memo Ex. PW1/B and
prepared the rukka and handed over the same to Ct. Nitin for
registration of the FIR and then Ct. Nitin came back at the spot
along with HC Ravindra. SI Amrender Singh handed over the
sealed case property along with document and accused to HC
Ravinder. HC Ravinder prepared the site plan at the instance of
SI Amrender Singh. HC Ravinder recorded his statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C. Witness has correctly identified the accused as well as the
case property i.e. one country made pistol along with one live
cartridge and one another fired cartridge which are Ex.
P1(Colly.). Further IO SI Amrender had deposed during his
examination that he had not prepared the sketch memo of the two
live cartridges during investigation. During cross examination by Ld. LAC for the accused
witness deposed that he had left the PS at about 7.40 pm on
motorcycle. Further, he could not recollect the registration
number of the bike/motorcycle. He had reached at the spot at
 Digitally
 signed by
 RAHUL
State vs. Dheeraj RAHUL SAINI
FIR No. 410/2018 SAINI Date: Further investigation was marked to him and he along with Ct.
Nitin went to the spot i.e. under Ashok Nagar flyover where he
met SI Amrender, Ct. Mohit and they handed over accused and
case property with documents to him. Thereafter, he interrogated
accused. After that, he had prepared site plan at the instance of SI
Amrender which is already Ex. PW2/B and arrested accused vide
arrest memo already Ex. PW2/C and had prepared personal
search memo of the accused which is Ex. PW3/A. He had also
recorded disclosure statement of the accused which is Ex.
PW3/B. Thereafter, they along with the accused and case
property went to PS and case property was deposited in the
malklhana. Thereafter, he had recorded statement of SI
Amrender, Ct. Nitin and Ct. Mohit. On the next date, he had
produced the accuse before the court and sent them to J/C. He
had sent the case property to FSL Rohini through Ct. Jhaber
Ram. He had recorded statement of Ct. Jhaber Ram. After completion of investigation, he had prepared the
chargesheet and same was submitted in the court. Digitally
 signed by
 RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
 SAINI Date: PW4 HC Nitin:- He had deposed the similar facts
as deposed by PW1 Ct Mohit Tomar and PW2 SI Amrender as
they all were the members of the raiding party. Witness further
deposed that measurement of the said pistol i.e. total length of
the was 30.5 cm, length of the barrel was 21.5 cm, length of the
handle was 12.5cm, and length of the body was 12 cm and length

 Digitally
 signed by
 RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
State vs. Dheeraj SAINI Date: ness mentioned at Sl. No. 2 ASI Ram Snehi DO, Sl. no. 7 Ct.
Jhaber Ram and Sl. No. 8 HC Kanwar Pal of main chargesheet
and Sl. No. 1 Puneet Puri Asstt.Director (Ballistics) and Sl. NO.
2 Addl, DCP-1/NED of supplementary chargesheet were
dropped from the list of witnesses as accused has admitted the
genuineness of the FIR, along with Certificate u/s 65-B of IEA
which is Ex. A1, DD No.77B dated 15.11.2018 is Ex. A2, FSL
result dated 18.03.2019 is Ex. A3, Permission u/s 39 of Arms Act
is Ex. A5 and Statement of Jabbar Ram who deposited the case

 Digitally
 signed by
 RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
 SAINI Date: Despite opportunity Accused opted to not lead any
Defence Evidence. Accordingly, bringing the trial to an end, final
arguments were heard from Ld. Counsel for the Accused as well
Ld. APP for the State. Appreciation of Evidence 5. The arguments were addressed by Ld. APP for the State as
well as Ld. LAC for the Accused in detail. Ld. APP for the State argued that the case of the
Prosecution has been proved beyond all reasonable doubts on
account of the unfeterred testimonies of the prime Prosecution
witnesses i.e. the complainant and IO. Ld. APP for the State
further argued that this case merits conviction of the Accused as
the Prosecution case stands firmly on its own footing and merely
because of absence of public witnesses, the veracity of public
witnesses does not stand negated. Vehemently, denying the arguments of Ld. APP for the
State, Ld. LAC for the Accused argued that the Accused has been
falsely implicated in the present case and he has been made only
a victim of circumstances. It was further argued by Ld. LAC for
the Accused that nothing was recovered from the possession of
 Digitally
 signed by
 RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
State vs. Dheeraj SAINI Date: 10. At this stage, it is also crucial to observe that witnesses
have admitted that no public persons have been made to join the
investigation in this matter despite the fact that the spot of the
incident is a public place where public persons were present.
Further, no notice has been served to any of the public persons
who did not join the investigation. It is also pertinent to note that
the alleged incident has occurred on a busy public road and
therefore, absence of public witnesses from the investigation
becomes even more apparent. Considering the above facts, it comes out that there was
no lack of time and opportunity with the IO to associate some
independent witnesses with the search and strictly comply with
the provisions of code of criminal procedure. The above stated observation of this court is fortified by
the observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in
Hemraj vs. State Of Haryana [AIR 2005 SC 2110] as
follows: Furthermore, in case titled as Roop Chand vs. State of
OF [1999 (1)C.L.R 69], the Hon'ble High Court of Punjab
Haryana has held that: 11. Moving further, this Court is conscious of precedent laid
down by Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case titled as Safiullah
vs. State , [1993 (1) RCR (Criminal) 622] , that : The case property in the present matter was lying in the
Malkhana of the same police station where the police officials
having the possession of seal were posted. There was ample
opportunity for tampering with the case property. Hence,

 Digitally
 signed by State vs. Dheeraj RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
FIR No. 410/2018 SAINI Date: 12. Besides all this, in the present case, the aforesaid lapse on
the part of police officials assumes significance on account of
another grave contradiction apparent in the document Ex.PW1/A
and Ex. PW1/B. The sketch memo of the country made pistol is
Ex. PW1/A and seizure memo of the same is Ex. PW1/B bear
the number of FIR. As per the rukka and testimony of witnesses,
the sketch memo of the desi katta and cartridges and seizure
memos were prepared prior to registration of FIR. If that be so
then it is questionable as to how the said documents bear the FIR
number. This gives rise to two inferences that either the FIR was
recorded prior to the alleged recovery of the case property or
number of the said FIR was inserted in the document after its
registration. In both the situations, it seriously questions the
veracity of the Prosecution version and creates a good deal of
doubt about the recovery of the case property in the manner
alleged by the Prosecution. That being so, the benefit arising out
of such a situation must necessarily go to the Accused. In this regard, reference is made to the judgment of
Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in case titled as Mohd Hasim V/S
State [1999 VI AD (DELHI) 569] wherein it was observed: "...documents prepared before
 registering the FIR bears FIR
 numbers, meaning thereby either FIR
 was recorded posterior in time or that
 documents were prepared after the
 recording of FIR, and in both cases,
 Prosecution case would collapse." 14. Further, in order to ensure fair investigation, the
Prosecution witnesses must have offered their personal search to
some independent witness. However, as no such precaution was
taken by Prosecution witnesses the doubt as to the false
plantation of the case property upon the Accused cannot be ruled
out. In S. L. Goswami Vs. State Of M.P. , [1972 CRI.L.J 511
(SC)] , the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under: This also raises doubt about the recovery of the said case
property from the present Accused and strengthens the possibility
of planting of the case property upon the Accused. Digitally
 signed by
 RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
 SAINI Date: 15. The onus and duty to prove the case against the Accused
was upon the Prosecution and the Prosecution must establish the
charge beyond reasonable doubt. It is also a cardinal principle of
criminal jurisprudence that if there is a reasonable doubt with
regard to the guilt of the Accused is entitled to benefit of doubt
resulting in acquittal of the Accused. 16. In view of above said discussion, the Prosecution has
failed to prove the guilt of the Accused beyond reasonable doubt.
Accordingly, Accused Dheeraj S/o Kishan Singh stands
acquitted of the offence punishable u/s 25 Arms Act framed
in the present case. Case property be confiscated to the State.
Same be destroyed. 17. Accused is directed to furnish the bonds u/s 437-A Cr.P.C. 18. File be consigned to Record Room after necessary
compliance. Digitally
 signed by
 RAHUL
 RAHUL SAINI
 SAINI Date: