1. Briefly stated of the facts as projected in the charge-sheet are that in the
intervening night of 13-14.03.2009, the complainant was working as clearance
officer in the departure left wing of IGI Airport and during clearance,
accused/passenger Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already convicted) came to his
counter for immigration clearance. Further as per the chargesheet on scrutiny of
his passport it was revealed that Canadian visa affixed on page no. 23 of his
passport was fake and complainant therefore consulted the I/C wing and it was
confirmed that the impugned visa was fake. It was further confirmed by Jet
Airline by which the pax/accused Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already convicted)
intended to travel that the visa was fake and it was written on the back side of
visa using invisible ink the word 'fake'. On interrogation the pax/accused Sarabjit
Singh Sandhu (already convicted) revealed that he was trying to travel Toronto by
Jet Airline flight no. 9W-230 on the strength of fake visa and he further disclosed
that journey was arranged alongwith Canadian visa by one agent/accused
Sukhpreet Singh (PO) who he had met in Mumbai. 2. Further, as per the charge-sheet it is mentioned that during investigation,
it was revealed by accused/pax Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already convicted) that
his sister used to reside in Canada and he wanted to go to Canada to earn money
and for this purpose he spoke to his friend/accused Balbir Singh who asked for
Rs. 6 Lakhs from him for this purpose. Further, as per the chargesheet, the father
of the accused/pax Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already convicted) mortgaged his land
and the money was thereafter given to accused Balbir Singh who then forwarded
the same to agent/accused Sukhpreet Singh (already PO). Accused Sarabjit Singh
Sandhu (already convicted) was introduced to the accused/Sukhprit Singh (PO)
by accused Balbir Singh and then both of them took the accused/pax Sarabjit
Singh Sandhu (already convicted) to Mumbai Airport where his travel documents
were prepared and his impugned visa was also handed over alongwith them. Thereafter, they went back to Punjab. The chargesheet further mentions that the
visa, passport and ticket of accused/pax Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already
convicted) were provided to him by accused/agent Sukhpreet Singh (PO) on
13.03.2009 and they came together by Jet Little Flight from Mumbai to Delhi and
thereafter accused Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already convicted) left at IGI Airport
by accused/agent Sukhpreet Singh (PO). 3. As per the chargesheet, during the further investigation, IO visited the
office of M/s Gulf Associate Vardhman City Plaza, Asafali Road wherein the
photocopy of passport of accused/agent Sukhpreet (already PO) and his mail
copy were recovered. Thereafter, accused Balbir Singh was arrested and during
investigation it revealed that his friend/accused/Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already
convicted) informed him that he wanted to go to Canada and he introduced
accused/pax Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already convicted) to his third friend
accused/agent Sukhpreet Singh (already PO) who was residing in Muradabad,
U.P and both of them had demanded Rs. 6 Lakhs for obtaining the fake Canadian
visa and they had together take the accused/passenger Sarabjit Singh Sandhu
(already convicted) to Mumbai airport where thereafter accused/agent Sukhprit
Singh (PO) had procured and affixed the forged Canadian visa on the passport of
accused/pax Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already convicted) pursuant to which the
accused/passenger Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already convicted) was apprehended.
Accused/agent Sukhpreet Singh (PO) was arrested at the instance of accused
Balbir Singh who informed in his disclosure statement that he was introduced to
accused/passenger Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already convicted) by his
friend/accused Balbir Singh and accused Balbir Singh had taken Rs. 6 Lakhs
from accused/passenger Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already convicted) and got fake
Canadian visa through unknown person Sandeep Badot. Thereafter, documents
were obtained from the father of the accused/passenger Sarabjit Singh Sandhu
(already convicted) and Narender Singh @ Nandi and bank statements were also
obtained during the investigation. 4. On completion of investigation, the charge-sheet was filed in the present case
on 27.07.2010. 5. Accused persons were summoned and copies of charge-sheet and
documents were supplied to accused persons in compliance of section 207 Cr.PC.
Accused Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already convicted) pleaded guilty vide order
dated 27.09.2010 in plea bargaining proceedings and he was accordingly
convicted. 6. Accused/agent Sukhpreet Singh (already PO) was declared absconder vide
order dated 21.04.2015. Charges u/s 120B IPC, 420 IPC read with section 120B IPC, 467/471 IPC ready with section 468 A IPC read with section 120B IPC and Section 12 Passport Act was framed against the accused Balbir Singh on
29.10.2015 to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. The matter was
thereafter fixed for prosecution evidence. 7. In support of his case the prosecution examined six witnesses. 8. PW1 is Sh. Narender Singh who resiled from his statement u/s 161 Cr.PC
and turned hostile. He was cross examined by Ld. APP for the State where he
denied all suggestions putforth to him. 9. PW2 is Sh. Paramjit Singh who deposed that he do not remember the
exact date but in the year 2009, when he was the Sarpanch of village Pattar Kalan
and one police official of Delhi had contacted him on his mobile phone and asked
him to met them. He met with the police official at one Chabutra where the police
officials of Delhi were already present and they asked him about one person
Balbir to which he showed his ignorance. He was thereafter informed that
another name of accused Balbir Singh was also known as Sabha and he was
informed police officials that he knew the person who was known by the name of
Sabha and he reside on the other side of the village. He stated that police officials Page no. 4/8 informed him that Sabha was not available in the village and asked him when he
used to do to which he informed them that perhaps he used to do farming. The
witness was cross examined by the Ld. APP for the State as he was resiled from
his previous statement u/s 161 Cr.PC. Witness PW2 denined all the suggestions
put forth by Ld. APP for the State during his cross examination. 10. PW3 is HC Virbhan who deposed that on 14.03.2009, the accused Sarabjit
Singh Sandhu (already convicted) was arrested vide arrest memo Ex. CW3/A and
personally searched vide personal search memo Ex. PW3/B. He stated that the
documents of accused Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already convicted) were seized by
seizure memo Ex. PW3/C and his disclosure statement was made as Ex. PW3/D. 11. PW4- is Sh. Umar Usaman who deposed that in the year 2009, he was
working as Manager Business Development at Gult Associates Travels at
Vardhman City Plaza, Asaf Ali road, New Delhi and police officials had come to
his office and made inquiry about one passenger Sukhpreet Singh (already PO).
He added that Sukhprit Singh (PO) used to come to his office to get ticket issued
for passenger and he had handed over the visiting card and photocopy of
passport of accused Sukhprit Singh (already PO) to the police officials alongwith
the covering letter and photocopy of the e-ticket which were issued by their office
by Sukhprit Singh (PO). Documents were seized vide seizure memo Ex. PW4/A.
The photocopy of passport of accused/agent Sukhpreet Singh (PO) alongwith the
documents were Mark 4X1 (colly). All the photocopy of e-mails were marked as
Mark 4X2 (colly). The witness was also cross examined by Ld. APP for the State
as he had resiled from statement u/s 161 Cr.PC. During the cross examination of
Ld. APP for state, he admitted that name of accused/passenger who had come
with the police was Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already convicted) and accused
Sarbjit Singh Sandhu (already convicted) had stated that Sukhpreet Singh
(already PO) was the person who alongwith his associate namely Balbir Singh
had arranged fake Canadian visa in lieu of Rs. 6 Lakhs. During his cross Page no. 5/8 examination by Ld. defence counsel for accused Balbir Singh, he admitted that
ticket was genuinely issued from his office after taking photocopy of travel
documents and he was never shown any photograph of Balbir Singh nor any
person by the name of Balbir Singh was know to him. He further admitted that
accused Balbir Singh who was shown to him in the court never come to his office
and he did not know any person by the name of Balbir Singh and in his presence
no deal of any payment had taken place. 12. PW5 is ASI Lala Ram who was the DO in this case and stated that FIR was
registered and the same is Ex. PW5/1. He further deposited that documents were
seized vide seizure memo Ex. PW5/2 and rukka is Ex. PW5/3. During his cross
examination he stated that passenger came early in the morning and he did not
record any separate statement of accused Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already
convicted) nor disclosed the name of any person who had arranged this journey. 13. PW6- is Inspector Ram Mehar Singh who deposed on the lines similar to
that mention in the chargesheet. The accused admitted u/s 294 Cr.PC the original
complaint Ex. C1, travel documents of accused Sarabjit Singh Sandhu (already
convicted) as Ex. C2 (colly), his arrest memo as Ex. C3, his personal search memo
as Ex. C4 and pointing out memo as Ex. C5. 14. Thereafter, the prosecution evidence was closed and matter was fixed for
recording the statement of accused persons u/s 313 Cr.PC wherein accused Balbir
Singh stated that he had given money to accused Sukhpreet Singh (PO) to go
abroad and he did not know any deal or any other documents and that he had
been falsely implicated in the present case. 15. Accused Balbir Singh opted not to lead defence evidence and the matter
was fixed for final arguments. Final arguments heard of both the parties. Record
perused. 16. It is seen from the perusal of the file that the material public witness PW1
Narender Singh and PW2 Paramjeet Singh have resiled from their previous
statement u/s 161 Cr.PC and have turned hostile. Even PW4 could not identify
the accused Balbir Singh who was present in the court and stated that he had no
personal knowledge of the case. He has further stated that he was informed by
accused Sarabjeet Singh Sandhu (already convicted) that Sukhpreet Singh (PO) is
person who alongwith his associate namely Balbir Singh had arranged the fake
Canadian visa in lieu of Rs. 6 Lakhs. Further his deposition appears to be hearsay
in nature when no corroborative prove or evidence has been brought forth to this
effect during the trial of the case. 17. There is no other incriminating evidence on record qua accused Balbir
Singh and no recovery has also been made from him admittedly in the instant
case. Furthermore, confession made to the police officials is inadmissible in
evidence and are hit by the provision of section 25 / 26 Indian Evidence Act and
therefore his disclosure statement would be inadmissible in evidence. 18. The material witnesses PW1 and PW2 had denied all the suggestions put
forth to them by Ld. APP for state during the cross examination and their
testimony and therefore nothing be relied upon and it is not inadmissible in
evidence. Furthermore, testimonies of the official witnesses examined by the
prosecution relate to formal technicalities of the case and could not farmed the
basis of the conviction. There is no other incriminating evidence on record
available. 19. Reliance can also be place on the dictum of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
th case titled as Sidharth v. State (2005) 12 SCC 545 wherein it is held that :- 20. In view of the above said discussion it is held that the prosecution is not
able to prove his case against the accused Balbir Singh beyond reasonable
doubt. Accordingly accused Balbir Singh stands acquitted from all the charges
levelled against him. ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT ON

TODAY i.e. ON 30.06.2018

 (Gurmohina Kaur)
 ACMM-01/ PHC, New Delhi
 30.06.2018 Page no. 8/8