2. That,   in   this   case   criminal   law   was   set   into   motion   on   the   basis   of   typed
 complaint of prosecutrix dated 02.12.2016 Ex.PW1/A and FIR No.709/2016
 u/s. 376/506 IPC was registered against the accused persons. In her complaint
 prosecutrix made allegations mainly against Saurabh Maheshwari that he used
 to work at the shop of AC repairing of her husband and slowly he developed
 friendship with her and on the pretext of making the food for him called her at
 his house where he gave her tea, consuming which she became unconscious
 and then he raped her, when she regained consciousness and then he raped her,
 she found her in awkward state when she protested the incident to him, he
 threatened her to kill her son and also told her that he has prepared her obscene
 videos and photographs. State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others 2/21 3. That, she also alleged that accused by putting her under pressure of having her
 photographs and video did sexual intercourse several times with her despite her
 unwillingness.   She also alleged that accused extorted money from her once
 Rs.50,000/­,   Rs.5,000/­   and   on   23.11.2016,   asked   her   to   give   Rs.20,000/­
 otherwise he would tell everything to her husband and show him the video, he
 used to call her on telephone and under compulsion, she used to talk to him.
 She also stated that when her husband asked from her about Rs.20,000/­ then
 she told  everything to her husband and thereafter, on 24.11.2016, her husband
 was called by maternal uncle of accused Saurabh Maheshwari at DAV School,
 Phase­IV,   Ashok   Vihar   where   Akhilesh,   Saurabh   and   Monu   were   present
 where her husband was abused and threatened to be killed by all of them. 4. That,   it   is   further   narrated   that   on   27.11.2016,   she   called   accused   Saurabh
 Maheshwari to return back her money then he threatened her that he would
 break the backbone of her husband and feet of her devar i.e. Sanjeev Kumar.
 She named accused Saurabh Maheshwari, Sonu and Akhilesh Maheshwari for
 taking action against them.  On the basis of complaint, she sought legal action
 against the accused persons. 5. That,   during   the   investigation,   prosecutrix   was   medically   examined   on
 03.12.2016   in   Hindu   Rao   Hospital   where   she   refused   for   her   internal
 examination,   her   statement   u/s   164 Cr.P.C .   was   recorded   on   05.12.2016
 wherein she mainly made allegations against accused Saurabh Maheshwari. 6. That, accused Saurabh Maheshwari was arrested in the case on 03.12.2016, he
 was   also   medically   examined   on   06.12.2016   by   the   doctors   of   Hindu   Rao Case No.121/2017 State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others      3/21
 Hospital and found to be capable of performing sexual intercourse. 7. That, during investigation, on 16.12.2016, mobile phone of accused Saurabh
 Maheshwari   was   also   seized   in   the   case,   which   was   sent   to   FSL   for
 examination.     I.O.   also   collected   photocopy   of   bank   statement   of   Umesh,
 husband of prosecutrix on 10.12.2016.       Accused Saurabh Maheshwari was
 charge­sheeted   u/s   376/384/506 IPC whereas   other   accused   persons   were
 charge­sheeted u/s 506 / 34 IPC. 8. Chargesheet   was   filed  in  the   court   of   ld.   Metropolitan   Magistrate   against
 accused   persons   namely  Saurabh   Maheshwari,   Umesh   Gupta   @   Monu,
 Akhilesh Gupta and Naveen Maheshwari. However, it was mentioned in the
 chargesheet that accused Sonu has been kept in column No.12 and in future if
 any   evidence   come   against   him   then   necessary   action   would   be   taken.
 Thereafter, Ld. MM vide his order dated 16.01.2017, held that there were direct
 allegations   against   accused   Sonu   and   he   was   also   summoned.    After
 compliance of the requirement of section 207 Cr. P.C. the case was sent to this
 court being the designated Special Fast Track Court for trial of the offences of
 sexual assault against the women through the Office of Ld. District & Sessions
 Judge (HQ), Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi.  During the trial of the case, FSL result
 was filed by the I.O. which was taken on record. CHARGE: 9. On the basis of material available on record, ld. predecessor of this court vide
 order   dated   30.03.2017   framed   charges   against  accused   persons   namely
 Umesh Gupta @ Monu, Akhilesh Gupta, Naveen Maheswari and Sonu for the
 offence punishable u/s  506 / 34 IPC  and against accused Saurabh Maheshwari Case No.121/2017 State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others      4/21
 charges for the offence punishable u/s 328 / 376(2)(n) / 384 / 506 IPC & 66 E IT
 Act & 506/34 IPC were framed to which accused persons did not plead guilty
 and claimed trial. PROSECUTION WITNESSES: 10. That, in order to prove its case, prosecution has examined 13 witnesses namely
 PW1 ASI Archana,  PW2 Prosecutrix 'P',  PW3 Sh. Jogi Ram Bansal, PW4 Ct.
 Robin,   PW5 Dr. Manzoor,  PW6 HC Satpal, PW7 Ms. Shilpi Jain, Ld. MM,
 PW8  Dr. Bhawna,  PW9  Dr. Atul Pandey,    PW10  Sh. Sanjeev,  PW11  Sh.
 Umesh, PW12 Dr. Jagmohan, and PW13 W/SI Anuradha. 11. That,  after   recording   the   evidence   of   the   prosecution   witnesses,   all   the
 incriminating evidence put  to the accused persons and their  statement  were
 recorded   u/s   313 Cr.P.C .     Accused   persons  denied   all   the   incriminating
 evidence against them.       Accused   Saurabh Maheshwari claimed that  he is
 innocent and has been implicated in this case on the issue of several months'
 salary which was to be paid to him by the husband of prosecutrix and when he
 demanded the said salary from Umesh, prosecutrix being his wife got lodged
 the present case against him at his instance. 12. Accused Sonu claimed that he is innocent and it is a false case and he has been
 implicated   by   PW   Umesh   in   connivance   of   his   wife   on   account   of   salary
 dispute with accused Saurabh Maheshwari being the family member of accused
 Saurabh Maheshwari.   Accused Naveen Maheshwari also claimed that it is a
 false case and he has been implicated by PW Umesh in connivance of his wife
 on   account   of   salary   dispute   with   accused   Saurabh   Maheshwari   being   the
 family member of accused Saurabh Maheshwari.     Accused Umesh Gupta @
 Monu claimed that it is a false case and he has been implicated by PW Umesh
 in connivance of his wife on account of salary dispute with accused Saurabh
 Maheshwari being the family member of accused Saurabh Maheshwari. State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others 7/21 13. Accused Akhilesh Gupta claimed that he is innocent and accused Saurabh had
 been working with PW Umesh at his shop of AC repairing.  He had not been
 paying his salary and when accused Saurabh had demanded his salary, PW
 Umesh used his wife as a tool in the present case and got registered the present
 case against them.   PW Umesh had come to him asking to send the accused
 Saurabh to him otherwise he would implicate him in the present case and the
 present case is the result of his threat. Accused persons have not preferred to
 lead defence evidence.  Thereafter, case was fixed for arguments. ARGUMENTS: 14. Ld. counsel for accused persons argued and submitted that the grandfather of
 the accused Saurabh Maheshwari  died on dated 16.06.2014 during the course
 of cross examination the prosecutrix admitted that after 3­4 days of the death of
 the grandfather of the accused Saurabh Maheshwari,   the prosecutrix went to
 cook   the   food   for   accused   at   house   bearing  No.   A­5,   ground   floor,  Shastri
 Nagar where the alleged incident of rape occurred. 15. Ld.   counsel   for   accused   persons   further   argued   that   after   the   incident   the
 prosecutrix did not raise any alarm or called the neighbour and make hue and
 cry and even she did not call her husband/police just after the incident.   It is
 further   submitted   that   after   this   incident,   prosecutrix   went   to   her   maternal
 house where she met with her step mother and Bhabhi but she did not disclose
 this incident to any of  them and she behaved there like a normal person. 16. It is further submitted that the prosecutrix in her complaint stated that at the Case No.121/2017 State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others 8/21
 time of this incident the accused Akhilesh Maheshwari was also present in the
 house but during the course of investigation by the I.O. she denied this fact,
 hence, the conduct  of  the prosecutrix is also doubtful and the testimony of
 prosecutrix cannot be relied as she did not disclose about the incident to her
 husband or to her jethani who is the wife PW10 who are residing in the same
 building where the prosecutrix reside with her husband after returning in the
 house. 17. Ld. counsel for accused persons further submitted that the FSL report also does
 not support the version of prosecutrix in regard to the making of obscene video
 by the accused. 18. Ld. counsel for accused persons further submitted that prosecutrix admitted that
 the   mobile   No.7383269615   belongs   to   her   and   further   deposed   that   she
 purchased the aforesaid mobile phone from the accused Saurabh Maheshwari.
 However, the I.O. did not make any endeavor to collect the call details record
 of the prosecutrix and the accused Saurabh Maheshwari in order to clear the
 picture between the prosecutrix and the accused Saurabh Maheshwari. 19. Ld. counsel for accused persons further submitted that PW10 and PW11 are
 interested witnesses and deposed before this Hon'ble Court and there is several
 contradictions   and   improvement   in   their   deposition   which   does   not
 corroborated   with   their   previous   statement's   u/s   161 Cr.P.C .   which   was
 recorded by IO at the time of investigation. On these grounds, ld. counsel for
 accused persons has prayed that accused persons may kindly be acquitted. 20. On the other hand, Ld. Addl. PP for the State submitted that the complainant Case No.121/2017 State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others 9/21
 lodged an FIR after 2 ½ years, there is no delay in lodging the FIR and the
 delay has been properly explained, the prosecutrix  could not lodge the FIR at
 the time of commission of the offence due to threats caused by the accused
 persons, there was fear in her mind due to that the prosecutrix could not lodge
 the FIR at the time of commission of offence.       It is further submitted that
 since the offences are punishable more than three years, hence, as per Cr.P.C .
 no limitation period has been provided to lodge the FIR for the offence which
 are punishable more than three years.  The prosecutrix was in continuous fear
 that accused persons would make her obscene video viral and due to this fear,
 she could not lodge the FIR at the time of the incident. 21. Ld.   Addl.   PP   for   the   State     further   submitted   that   the   accused   Saurabh
 Maheshwari   admitted   sexual   intercourse   with   the   prosecutrix   but   failed   to
 prove   that   the   relation   was   consensual.     No   evidence     has   been   produced
 showing any consent. 22. Ld.   Addl.   PP   for   the   State   further   submitted   that   the   prosecutrix   in   her
 complaint, statements u/s 161 Cr.P.C. and also her statements u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
 consistently said that accused Saurabh Maheshwari repeatedly committed rape
 with   her   by   extending   threat   to   the   prosecutrix   that   they   would   make   her
 obscene video viral and would kill her family members if she tells this incident
 to any person. 23. Ld. Addl. PP for the State further submitted that prosecutrix has specifically
 deposed   about   the   role   of   each   accused   involved   in   the   incident.     She   has
 specifically   named   accused   Saurabh   Maheshwari   and   has   described   the
 instances   how   she   was   first   called   by   accused   Saurabh   Maheshwari   at   his Case No.121/2017 State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others 10/21
 house, provided tea having intoxicated substance and then raped.  She has also
 narrated   in   detail   the   manner   in   which   accused   Saurabh   Maheshwari   has
 pressurized her, compelled her and extorted money on the pretext of having her
 obscene   videos   and   then   continued   to   solicit   sexual   favour   from   her.     The
 testimony of prosecutrix is reliable and cogent. 24. Ld. Addl. PP for the State further submitted that no material contradictions or
 improvements has been found in the testimony of prosecutrix to disbelieve her
 version.   Her testimony is also corroborated by the testimony of her husband
 and   the   statement   of   bank   account   produced   by   him   and   given   to   the   I.O.
 during the investigation.   Conduct of other accused persons have also been
 established   how   they   have   threatened   the   victim   and   her   husband   and   her
 brother in law and all of them has deposed specifically against accused persons
 who threatened them. As such, accused persons may be convicted. PERUSAL OF RECORD: 25. On   perusal   of   record,   it   is   revealed   that   on   the     complaint   of   prosecutrix
 Ex.PW1/A, present FIR Ex.PW1/B was registered against the accused. 26. It is further revealed that  she was medically examined in hospital vide MLC,
 Ex.PW8/A; she also gave her statement, Ex.PW7/B under section 164 Cr.P.C.
 which was recorded by PW7 Ms. Shilpi Jain, Ld. M.M., Tis Hazari Courts,
 Delhi. 27. It   is   further   revealed   that   on   02.12.2016   on   the   basis   of   complaint   of   the
 prosecutrix,   Ex.PW1/A   rukka,   Ex.PW1/C   was   prepared   and   case   FIR,
 Ex.PW1/B was registered by PW1 W/ASI Archana; she also gave certificate, Case No.121/2017 State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others 11/21
 Ex.PW1/D under section 65 B of the Evidence Act regarding correct contents
 of computerized copy of FIR. 28. It is further revealed that  IO PW13 W/SI Anuradha on 03.12.2016 reached at
 the spot of incident i.e. House No. A­5, Shastri Nagar, Delhi and prepared site
 plan, Ex.PW13/C. 29. It is further revealed that I.O. arrested accused Saurabh Maheshwari  from his
 house   No.   B­1676,   IInd   Floor,   Shastri   Nagar,   Delhi   vide   arrest   memo,
 Ex.PW2/A;   his   personal   search   memo   was   conducted   vide   personal   search
 memo, Ex.PW13/A; his disclosure statement, Ex.PW13/B was recorded on dt.
 03.12.2016   accused   Saurabh   Maheshwari   was     produced   in   Hindu   Rao
 Hospital, Delhi by the IO and were examined vide MLC, Ex.PW9/A by Dr.
 Tarun Aggarwal which MLC was proved by PW9 Dr. Atul Pandey. He was
 also   examined   by   Dr.   Auditi   Talukder   regarding   his   potency   vide   her
 observation on the MLC Ex.PW9/A at point B to B which handwriting was
 proved by PW8 Dr. Bhawna. 30. It is further revealed that   on 16.12.2016 PW13 W/SI Anuradha seized   two
 mobile phones of accused Saurabh Maheshwari, one make Nokia and another
 make Micromax vide seizure memo, Ex.PW13/D. 31. It is further revealed that on 10.12.2016, I.O. W/SI Anuradha seized photocopy
 of the bank statement of Kotak Mahindra belonging to Sh. Umesh Kumar vide
 seizure   memo,   Ex.PW11/A.   I.O.   also   seized   the   copy   of   rent   agreement,
 Ex.PW3/B held between  co­accused Akhilesh Gupta and Sh. Jogi Ram Bansal
 vide seizure memo, Ex.PW3/A. 32. It is further revealed that PW6 HC Satpal deposited the exhibits of this case in Case No.121/2017 State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others 12/21
 Malkhana   vide   entry,   Ex.PW6/A   of   register   no.19;   then   on   20.12.2016   the
 exhibits of this case were sent to FSL, Rohini through PW4 Ct. Robin, who
 deposited the same in the office of FSL and obtained acknowledgment which
 he gave to the MHC(M) on his return. 33. Before reaching at any conclusion, let the relevant sections i.e. 328/376 (2) (n)/384/506/34 IPC & 66 E IT Act be re­produced, which are as under:­ Section 328 IPC. Causing hurt by means of poison, etc. with intent to commit an
 offence.­ Whoever administers to or causes to be taken by any person
 any poison or any stupefying, intoxicating or unwholesome drug, or
 with thing with intent to cause hurt to such person, or with intent to
 commit or to facilities the commission of an offence or knowing it to
 be   likely   that   he   will   thereby   cause   hurt,   shall   be   punished   with
 imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten
 years, and shall also be liable to fine. Section 384 IPC : shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall
 not be less than ten years but which may extend to imprisonment for
 life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that person's
 natural life and shall also be liable to fine. Section  506 IPC: 34. Having heard the arguments advanced by ld. defence counsel for the accused as
 well as ld. Addl. PP for the State and after gone through the case file as well as
 evidence recorded by the prosecution to prove their case, the court has to first
 discussed the material evidence led by the prosecution and PW1 is the formal
 witness   who   has   proved   that   upon   the   receipt   of   rukka,   the   FIR   has   been
 registered. 35. That,   PW2,   who   is   the   prosecutrix,   is     star   and   material   witness   for   the
 prosecution and she has deposed that the accused Saurabh Maheshwari who
 used to work in the shop of her husband make a request to her that grandfather
 of the accused died and since the maternal uncle of the accused was good friend
 of   her   husband   and     on   persistence   request   of   the   accused,   the   prosecutrix
 agreed to cook food at the house of accused and accordingly she went to the
 house of accused to cook food for him in the month of May or June'2015 but
 the prosecutrix does not know exact date and when she reached the house of
 accused, no one was present at his house except the accused and accused served
 her tea at his house and thereafter, the prosecutrix started feeling giddiness and
 later become unconscious and she regained her consciousness after 1 ½ hours
 and found herself in naked condition on the bed in a room of that house and she
 was   also   feeling   pain   in   her   abdomen   and   when   the   prosecutrix   asked   the
 accused that "tumne yeh kya kiya" then accused replied that he along with co­
 accused Sonu had made her obscene video and accused also threatened  her that
 if she would tell the incident to anyone then he would make her video viral and
 would also kill her husband and son.   She put on her clothes from there and Case No.121/2017 State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others 14/21
 went to her matrimonial home and she did not tell the incident to anyone as she
 was scared and frightened. 36. That,   the   court   is   very   much   conscious   of   the   fact   that   evidence   of   the
 prosecutrix is required to be appreciated in a realistic human assessment.  It is
 an   established   law   that   evidence   of   the   prosecutrix   did   not   require   any
 corroboration and her testimony can be relied upon if it is cogent and is of
 sterling quality.  It has also been laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court of India in
 various   judgments   that   evidence   of   the   prosecutrix   can   be   sole   basis   of
 conviction,   provided   testimony   of   the   prosecutrix   is   worth   of   credence   and
 believable. 37. That, the prosecutrix in her examination­in­chief has deposed that when she
 reached at the house of the accused to cook food for him and except accused
 Saurabh Maheshwari no one was present in that house and if the accused told
 her that co­accused Sonu had made her obscene video then this fact is of not
 much   relevance   particularly   when   the   prosecutrix   has   deposed   in   her
 examination­in­chief that no one else was present in the room except accused
 Saurabh Maheshwari. 38. That,   it   has   been   further   deposed   by   the   prosecutrix   that   after   making   her
 obscene video, the accused committed sexual intercourse with her forcibly and
 used to extend threat to her that he would make her video viral and accused
 also used to extort money from her and she had given Rs.60,000/­ in three
 installments   on   different   occasions   to   the   accused   and   in   the   month   of
 December'2016, accused Saurabh Maheshwari and accused Monu went to the
 school   where   her   son   aged   12   years   was   studying   and   her   brother­in­law Case No.121/2017 State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others 15/21
 (devar) was driving school van.  Monu was driving his van which was attached
 with DAV School, Ashok Vihar, Delhi. 39. That, it is further deposed that during the period of demonetization, accused
 had demanded Rs.20,000/­ and the money was paid by her to accused in two
 installments   and   when   husband   of   the   prosecutrix   asked   the   prosecutrix   to
 account of the said money then she told everything which had happened with
 her to her husband and her husband had quarreled with her but did not talk to
 the accused. 40. It has also been deposed that in last week of November'2016, accused along
 with co­accused Monu @ Umesh had gone to school and had asked Sanjeev,
 her devar that "jo hisab karna hai tu lala @ my husband, ko yahan bulalo" and
 altercation was took place between them and said Sanjeev called her husband
 on phone and when her husband reached there, there was some manhandling
 with her husband by the accused persons. 41. That, on the next day accused telephoned her and threatened her that  "mere
 husband ki reedh ki haddi tod dega aur Sanjeev ko van chalane layak nahi
 chhodega" and wife of co­accused Naveen had also abused her on telephone in
 year 2016. 42. In   the   examination­in­chief,   the   prosecutrix   has   admitted   that   accused   had
 established   physical   relation   with   her   at   rented   house   of   his   uncle   in   A­5,
 Shastri Nagar, Delhi and she had not seen carefully the obscene video alleged
 to have been prepared by the accused.  More so, mobile phone of the accused
 was recovered during the course of investigation and same was sent to FSL for
 examination and as per the report of FSL, no obscene video of prosecutrix have Case No.121/2017 State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others 16/21
 been found in the mobile phone of the accused.  Therefore, prosecution has not
 been   able   to   prove   that   accused   committed   sexual   intercourse   continuously
 with the prosecutrix on the pretext of alleged video to make it viral. 43. Further, the date and month is also not remembered to the prosecutrix when the
 wife of co­accused Monu has abused her on telephone in the year 2016. The
 prosecutrix has also not been able to identify mobile phone of the accused and
 in the cross examination, the prosecutrix has admitted that it is not remember to
 her from where she had get the complaint Ex.PW1/A typed and when the same
 was   typed   her   husband   was   with   her   and   she   had   also   admitted   that   "it   is
 correct   that   I   have   mentioned   in   my   complaint   the   present   incident   had
 occurred two and half years back from the date of filing of present complaint." 44. The prosecutrix had not disclosed to her husband that she was going to cook
 food for accused at his house and she had admitted that she was not having any
 mobile phone when she was going to the house of accused to cook food but she
 has further admitted that the mobile number 7383269615 belongs to her and the
 said   mobile   phone   was   purchased   by   her   from   the   accused   and   it   is   not
 remember to the prosecutrix as to how long she is using this mobile phone. 45. The   testimony   of   prosecutrix   is   not   trustworthy   and   also   inspiring   no
 confidence on the ground that if she is using the mobile phone as admitted by
 her   in   the   cross   examination   which   was   being   purchased   by   her   from   the
 accused then she is not able to explain the reasons why she did not raise alarm
 after coming out of the house of accused after the alleged incident, when she
 was   being   allegedly   raped   by   the   accused.     The   prosecutrix   also   did   not
 disclose to her husband in respect of going to house of accused to cook food for Case No.121/2017 State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others 17/21
 the accused. She also never asked her husband to remove the accused from his
 shop. She had also not disclosed the incident of November'2016 to her husband
 and prior to disclosing the incident to her husband she had not lodged any
 complaint to any authority. 46. That,   the   written   complaint   was   made   in   respect   of   the   sexual   intercourse
 alleged to have been committed forcibly by the accused with the prosecutrix on
 02.12.2016 and she has herself admitted that the incident of forcible intercourse
 by   the   accused   with   her   was   of   two   and   half   years   back   when   she   made
 complaint to the police. 47. That, the incident of manhandling by the accused persons with the husband and
 'Devar' of the prosecutrix has also been deposed but neither husband of the
 prosecutrix nor the 'Devar' of the prosecutrix made any complaint to the police
 of manhandling.  Nor there is any MLC of the manhandling or alleged physical
 assault upon the husband as well as 'Devar' of prosecutrix alleged to have been
 committed by any of the accused persons. 48. The allegation against accused are of that when the prosecutrix went to the
 house of accused then he offered her tea and after taking the tea, prosecutrix
 feeling giddiness and become unconscious and during that period the accused
 made physical relation with the prosecutrix without her consent but the said
 fact has not been mentioned in the alleged history of MLC nor the same has
 been told by the prosecutrix to doctor concerned  who had prepared her MLC
 and prosecution has not been able to lead any evidence on this point and none
 of the material  witness has also proved that fact.  Therefore, the testimony of
 the prosecutrix does not inspire any confidence. State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others 18/21 49. PW11, husband of the prosecutrix has also admitted in his examination­in­chief
 that "prosecutrix also revealed him that about two and half years back accused
 Saurabh Maheshwari committed sexual intercourse with her forcibly at A­5,
 Shastri Nagar, Delhi and that she had also made her obscene video and that he
 used to blackmail on account of that video".  Therefore, it has been proved that
 the alleged incident of rape had committed two and half years back from the
 date of the written complaint made by the prosecutrix to the police and the
 prosecutrix herself admitted that she had not seen the video and therefore, this
 court is of the considered view that the testimony of prosecutrix   itself is not
 reliable and is not of sterling quality and there is unexplained delay of two and
 half years to report the matter to the police. 50. That, in criminal trial, one of the cardinal principles for the Court is to look for
 plausible explanation for the delay in lodging the report.   Delay sometimes
 affords opportunity to the complainant to make deliberation upon the complaint
 and   to   make   embellishment   or   even   make   fabrications.     Delay   defeats   the
 chance of  the unsoiled and untarnished version of the case to be presented
 before the Court at the earliest instance.  That is why, if there is delay in either
 coming   before   the   police   or   before   the   Court,   the   Courts   always   view   the
 allegations with suspicion and look for satisfactory explanation.   If no such
 satisfaction is formed, the delay is treated as fatal to the prosecution case. In Thulia Kali v. The State of Tamil Nadu (AIR 1973 SC 501), it was held that
 the   delay   in   lodging   the   first   information   report   quite   often   results   in
 embellishment as a result of afterthought. On account of delay, the report not
 only gets bereft of the advantage of spontaneity, but also danger creeps in of
 the introduction of coloured version, exaggerated account or concocted story as Case No.121/2017 State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others 19/21
 a result of deliberation and consultation.  In Ram Jag and others v. The State
 of U.P. (AIR 1974 SC 606) the position was explained that whether the delay
 is so long as to throw a cloud of suspicion on the seeds of the prosecution case
 must depend upon a variety of factors which would vary from case to case.
 Even   a   long   delay   can   be   condoned   if   the   witnesses   have   no   motive   for
 implicating the accused and/or when plausible explanation is offered for the
 same.   On the other hand, prompt filing of the report is not an unmistakable
 guarantee of the truthfulness or authenticity of the version of the prosecution. Reliance is placed upon Dilawar Singh v/s State of Delhi, Criminal Appeal
 No.491 of 2002 decided on 05.09.2007 of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India. 51. Other witnesses examined by the prosecution are also not sufficient to prove
 the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt.  For the reasons stated above,
 this  court  do not  find that  evidence of  the prosecutrix as well  as the other
 evidence led by the prosecution is credible enough to rely upon to convict the
 accused persons and the prosecution has miserably failed to establish and prove
 the charge beyond reasonable doubt  against any of the accused person and  this
 court has no option except to acquit all the accused persons  namely Saurabh
 Maheshwari,   Umesh   Gupta,   Akhilesh   Gupta,   Naveen   Maheswari   and   Sonu
 from the charges    u/s  506/34 IPC and accused Saurabh Maheshwari is also
 acquitted from the charges u/s 328 / 376(2)(n) / 384 / 506 IPC & 66 E IT Act &
 506/34 IPC . 52. In terms of section 437­A Cr. P.C. all accused persons are  directed to execute
 bail bond in sum of Rs.20,000/­ each with one surety each in the like amount. 53. As prosecution has not been able to prove the guilt of the accused persons Case No.121/2017 State Vs. Saurabh Maheshwari & Others 20/21
 beyond reasonable doubt. Therefore, there is no order to compensation to the
 victim/complainant. 54. Every page of this judgment is signed by me. 55. File be consigned to record room. PRONOUNCED IN THE OPEN
 COURT ON  30.11.2018. (SATISH KUMAR)
      ASJ/SFTC­2(CENTRAL),
            TIS HAZARI COURTS, DELHI.