1. Accused Narender Prashad, Jabbar Prashad, Jamwant Prashad and
 Sambhu Nath are facing trial for the commission of offences
 punishable under Sections 323 / 325 / 341 / 506(II) / 34 IPC. CASE OF THE PROSECUTION: 2. The case of the prosecution is that upon receipt of DD No. 110B
 dated 03.11.2015 at about 10:47 p.m., HC Fateh Chand along with
 Constable Lalit Kant reached the spot i.e. Jhuggi No. B-254,
 Ambedkar Camp, Jhilmil Industrial Area, Delhi. At the spot, they
 came to know that the persons injured in the quarrel had been
 taken to GTB Hospital by the PCR van. Since no eye witness was
 available at the spot, they both went to the hospital and obtained
 the MLCs of complainant/injured Sidheshwar Yadav and three
 other injured namely Umakant, Madan and Surender Yadav.
 Injured persons told HC Fateh Chand that they would visit the
 police station for giving their statements after obtaining the
 medical treatment. In the morning of 04.11.2015 at about 4:00
 a.m., the complainant Sidheshwar Yadav visited the police station
 and his statement was recorded by HC Fateh Chand. 3. In his statement, the complainant stated that he resided as a tenant
 in Jhuggi No. 301, Ambedkar Camp, Jhilmil Industrial Area,
 Shahdara, Delhi and in the night of 03.11.2015 at about 9:30 p.m.,
 when he was in his jhuggi, he heard the owner of neighbouring SC No. 282/2024 State v. Narender Prashad & Ors. Page 2 of 14 Digitally
 signed by
SANJAY SANJAY GARG
 Date: jhuggi namely accused Jamwant abusing his tenants Dharmender
 and Lal Dev by calling them 'Biharis' under the influence of
 liquor. The complainant and his nephews Umakant and Dinanath
 came out of their jhuggi and tried to pacify the accused Jamwant
 and asked him as to why he was calling his tenants as 'Biharis'.
 Upon hearing the same, the accused Jamwant got enraged and
 started hurling abuses on the complainant and his nephews. In the
 meantime, accused Jabbar, Sambhu and Nagender, who are the
 nephews of accused Jamwant and resided in nearby jhuggis,
 reached the spot. Thereafter, all the four accused persons caught
 hold of the complainant and started giving beatings to him with
 dandas, kicks and fist blows as a result of which, the complainant
 sustained injuries on his head and other body parts. The accused
 persons also extended threats to kill the complainant. When the
 nephew of the complainant namely Umakant tried to rescue the
 complainant, the accused persons also gave beatings to him. The
 complainant gave information to the police, whereupon the PCR
 van came to the spot and took him and his nephew Umakant to
 GTB Hospital for treatment. 4. On the basis of the above statement of the complainant, FIR under Sections 323 / 341 / 506 / 34 IPC was registered and the investigation
 was assigned to HC Fateh Chand. During investigation, he
 prepared the site plan of the spot at the instance of the
 complainant, submitted the MLCs with GTB Hospital for
 obtaining the final opinion regarding the nature of injuries and SC No. 282/2024 State v. Narender Prashad & Ors. Page 3 of 14 Digitally signed by SANJAY SANJAY GARG
GARG Date: 5. On 09.07.2024, when the matter was at the stage of prosecution
 evidence, it was brought to the notice of the Court that the State
 case arising out of the cross FIR No. 787/2015 was pending before
 this Court. Accordingly, the Ld. MM transferred the instant case to
 this Court so that both the cases are tried by the same Court. CHARGE: 6. On 06.08.2024, charge for the commission of offences punishable
 under Sections 323 / 325 / 506(II) / 341 / 34 IPC was framed against
 the accused persons to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed
 trial. PROSECUTION EVIDENCE: 7. In support of its case, the prosecution examined 7 witnesses. 7.1. PW1 Sidheshwar Yadav is the complainant. He proved the SC No. 282/2024 State v. Narender Prashad & Ors. Page 4 of 14 Digitally signed by SANJAY SANJAY GARG
GARG Date: 8. On 16.09.2025, the accused persons admitted the FIR No.
 786/2015 and endorsement on rukka as Ex. P1 and Ex. PX1; DD
 No. 110B dated 03.11.2015 as Ex. P2; MLC of injured Madan,
 Sidheshwar Yadav, Surender Yadav and Umakant as Ex. P3 to Ex.
 P6 respectively. STATEMENT OF THE ACCUSED: 9. The statements of the accused persons under Section 313 CrPC
 were recorded on 10.10.2025. All the incriminating material
 available on record was put to them to which their stand was of
 general denial and they stated that they are innocent and had been
 falsely implicated in the case. However, they chose not to lead any
 evidence in their defence. 10. I have heard the Ld. Chief PP for the State as well as the Ld.
 Counsel for the accused persons. Material on record has also been
 perused. ARGUMENTS ADVANCED: 11. At the outset, Ld. Chief PP for the State has fairly conceded that
 no offence under Section 325 IPC was involved in the present case
 and the IO had inadvertently filed the MLCs of two persons SC No. 282/2024 State v. Narender Prashad & Ors. Page 6 of 14 Digitally
 signed by
SANJAY SANJAY GARG
 Date: namely Madan and Surender Yadav and included them in the list
 of witnesses in the chargesheet. He has pointed out that after the
 framing of charge, the said error was noticed and accordingly, both
 the said persons had been dropped by the prosecution on
 05.09.2024. He has submitted that qua the remaining offences
 under Sections 323 / 341 / 506(II) / 34 IPC, the prosecution has
 examined the complainant/injured Sidheshwar Yadav as well as
 his nephew / injured Umakant and both of them have supported
 the case of the prosecution. He has argued that since the accused
 persons have failed to dent the testimonies of the said witnesses,
 the prosecution has succeeded in proving its case against the
 accused persons. 12. On the other hand, the Ld. Counsel for the accused persons has
 submitted that on the date of incident, the complainant Sidheshwar
 Yadav and his nephews Umakant and Dinanath had given beatings
 to the accused No. 3 Jamwant Prashad when he was trying to
 resolve the issue of water between his tenants and since the
 information thereof had been given to the police, the complainant
 got the instant FIR registered by falsely implicating accused No. 3
 Jamwant Prashad and his three nephews i.e. accused No. 1, 2 and
 4, who were not even present at the spot. He has submitted that no
 injury was caused to the complainant or his nephew Umakant
 during the incident and the injuries recorded in their MLCs are self
 inflicted. He has argued that the complainant had lodged the
 instant FIR on the basis of false medical evidence to pre-empt his SC No. 282/2024 State v. Narender Prashad & Ors. Page 7 of 14 Digitally signed by SANJAY SANJAY GARG
GARG Date: 13. Section 323 IPC prescribes punishment for voluntarily causing
 hurt. Section 319 IPC provides that whoever causes bodily pain,
 disease or infirmity to any person is said to cause hurt. 14. Section 341 IPC provides punishment for wrongful restraint. Section 339 IPC lays down that whoever voluntarily obstructs any
 person so as to prevent that person from proceeding in any
 direction in which that person has a right to proceed, is said
 wrongfully to restrain that person. 15. Section 506 IPC prescribes punishment for criminal intimidation. The offence of criminal intimidation has been defined in Section
 503 IPC. The said provision reads thus: 16. Section 34 IPC essentially involves vicarious liability. It provides
 that when a criminal act is done by several persons in furtherance
 of the common intention of all, each of such persons is liable for
 that act in the same manner as if it were done by him alone. ANALYSIS AND REASONING: 17. Before proceeding to evaluate the evidence produced on record by
 the prosecution in respect of the offences under Sections
 323 / 341 / 506(II) / 34 IPC, it is pertinent to mention that the charge
 for the offence under Section 325 / 34 IPC had also been framed by
 the Ld. Predecessor in view of the MLC of one Madan, wherein
 the nature of injuries had been opined to be grievous. After the
 framing of charge, when the said Madan was summoned by the
 Court, the IO filed a report on 05.09.2024 to the effect that the
 MLC of Madan and Surender Yadav had been mistakenly filed
 with the chargesheet and neither there was any mention of the said
 two persons in the statement of the complainant nor he had SC No. 282/2024 State v. Narender Prashad & Ors. Page 9 of 14 Digitally
 signed by
SANJAY SANJAY GARG
 Date: examined them during the course of investigation in connection
 with the instant FIR. In view of the said report, the Ld. Chief PP
 for the State had dropped Madan and Surender Yadav from the list
 of prosecution witnesses with the permission of the Court.
 Considering the same, this Court is not required to return any
 finding qua the charge for the offence under Section 325 / 34 IPC. Offence under Section 323 / 34 IPC: 18. To bring home the guilt of the accused persons for the above
 offence, the prosecution was required to prove that in furtherance
 of their common intention, the accused persons had voluntarily
 caused hurt to the complainant Sidheshwar Yadav and his nephew
 Umakant. The prosecution has examined the complainant
 Sidheshwar Yadav as PW1. In his deposition, PW1 has testified
 the contents of his initial statement (Ex. PW1/A) and has
 specifically deposed that when he confronted the accused Jamwant
 Prashad for hurling abuses on his tenants by calling them
 'Biharis', the accused Jamwant Prashad got annoyed and that in
 the meantime, the remaining three accused persons namely
 Narender Prashad, Jabbar Prashad and Sambhu Nath also came
 there and they all started beating him with kicks and fist blows.
 PW1 Sidheshwar Yadav also deposed that the accused Jamwant
 Prashad gave a danda blow on his head due to which blood started
 oozing. 19. The Ld. Counsel for the accused persons has submitted that while
 in his initial statement Ex. PW1/A, the complainant had stated that
 his nephews Umakant and Dinanath had accompanied him to the
 spot, in his cross-examination, the complainant (PW1) has
 deposed that his nephews had reached the spot after the accused
 persons had started giving beatings to him. He has contended that
 the above inconsistency in the statements of the complainant
 makes his deposition unreliable. The Court is unable to agree. It is
 a matter of record that at the instance of accused No. 3 Jamwant
 Prashad a cross FIR No. 787/2015 had been registered against the
 complainant herein and his nephews and in the said FIR, the
 accused No. 3 had himself stated that when he was trying to
 resolve the issue between his tenants, the complainant and his
 nephews had reached the spot and confronted him for calling his
 tenants as 'Biharis'. Even otherwise, the variation pointed out by
 the Ld. Counsel for the accused persons is minor in nature and
 does not affect the veracity of the testimony of the complainant
 regarding the injuries caused to him by the accused persons. 20. The prosecution has also examined the nephew of the complainant
 namely Umakant as PW2. PW2 has corroborated the testimony of
 the complainant (PW1) regarding the beatings given to him by the
 accused persons and has also deposed that when he tried to
 intervene and save the complainant, the accused persons also gave
 beatings to him with kicks and danda. The accused persons failed
 to elicit anything material from the cross-examination of PW1 and SC No. 282/2024 State v. Narender Prashad & Ors. Page 11 of 14 Digitally
 signed by
SANJAY SANJAY GARG
 Date: 21. Apart from the oral testimonies of PW1 and PW2, the prosecution
 has produced on record the MLCs of both the witnesses conducted
 at GTB Hospital on the date of incident. The said MLCs were
 admitted by the accused persons during the course of trial as Ex.
 P4 and Ex. P6 respectively. A perusal of the said MLCs shows that
 both of them had sustained lacerated wound on their heads. In
 addition thereto, PW2 Umakant had also sustained injury on the
 finger of his right hand. Injuries sustained by PW1 and PW2 were
 opined to be simple in nature. Though the accused persons have
 raised the defence that injuries sustained by PW1 and PW2 were
 self inflicted, however, no evidence was led by them to prove the
 said defence. 22. From the unshattered testimonies of PW1 and PW2 and the
 medical evidence produced on record, the prosecution has
 succeeded in proving that the accused persons had voluntarily
 caused hurt to the complainant and his nephew Umakant. Offence under Section 506 (II) / 34 IPC: 23. In order to prove the commission of offence of criminal
 intimidation, the prosecution is required to show that the accused
 persons had threatened the complainant with an intention to cause
 alarm or to compel him to do or abstain from doing any act. Mere SC No. 282/2024 State v. Narender Prashad & Ors. Page 12 of 14 Digitally
 signed by
SANJAY SANJAY GARG
 Date: threat extended by the accused without the requisite mens rea
 would not constitute the offence of criminal intimidation. The
 intention to cause alarm has to be gathered from the surrounding
 circumstances i.e. the words uttered and the act which followed
 such utterances. In the case on hand, the complainant PW1
 Sidheshwar Yadav has deposed that after giving beatings to him,
 the accused Jamwant Prashad threatened that if he would lodge
 any FIR against the accused, he would be killed. The question to
 be considered is whether the alleged utterance by the accused
 Jamwant Prashad was sufficient to attract the mischief of Section
 506 IPC. In this regard, it is important to note that in respect of the
 incident in question, a cross FIR No. 787/2015 had been registered
 at the instance of accused Jamwant Prashad. From the contents of
 both the FIRs, it emerges that a verbal altercation between the
 parties on a trivial issue escalated into a fight and both the sides
 physically assaulted each other. The entire incident occurred on
 the spur of the moment and neither there was any previous enmity
 between the parties nor their acts were premeditated. Injury
 sustained by the complainant was opined to be simple. It is trite
 that an utterance or threat made in the heat of the moment without
 a deliberate intention to cause alarm or fear does not constitute
 criminal intimidation. Further, the alleged threat did not cause any
 alarm to the complainant because as per his own version in the
 initial statement (Ex. PW1/A), he had immediately made a call to
 the police after the incident. In view of the above, the offence
 under Section 506 / 34 IPC is clearly not established against the SC No. 282/2024 State v. Narender Prashad & Ors. Page 13 of 14 Digitally
 signed by
SANJAY SANJAY GARG
 Date: 24. With regard to the above offence, it is pertinent to observe that
 though the complainant had alleged in his initial statement (Ex.
 PW1/A) that the accused persons had wrongfully restrained him,
 however, the testimony of the complainant PW1 Sidheshwar
 Yadav is completely silent on the above score. In view thereof, the
 case of the prosecution qua the offence under Section 341 / 34 IPC
 against the accused persons fails. Conclusion: 25. In the light of the above discussion, the accused Narender Prashad,
 Jabbar Prashad, Jamwant Prashad and Sambhu Nath are convicted
 for the commission of offence punishable under Section 323 / 34 IPC and they are acquitted of the remaining charges against them. 26. Copy of the judgment be supplied to the convicts free of cost. 27. The convicts shall now be heard on the point of sentence.