Dalveer Bhandari, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. This appeal is directed against the judgment and order 

dated 04.08.2010 passed in Writ Petition (PIL) No.4700 of 

2008 by the High Court of Jharkhand at Ranchi. 3. In the impugned judgment, it is mentioned that the basic 

allegation is amassing of illicit wealth by various former 

Ministers, including a former Chief Minister of the State. The 

money alleged to have been so earned is of unprecedented 

amounts. However, there is no clear allegation so far about its 

laundering in the sense mentioned above, but there is an 

allegation of its investment in property, shares etc. not only in 

India but also abroad. 4. The basic investigation requires determining whether 

money has been acquired by an abuse of the official position 

amounting to an offence under the Prevention of Corruption 

Act and under the Indian Penal Code , the persons by whom 

this has been done, the amount which has been so earned and 

places where it has been invested. 5. The amount is alleged to run into several hundred crores. The investigations done so far allege that the amount 

unearthed so far in one case is about one and a half crore and 

in another case is about six and a half crores, which would 

appear to be merely the tip of the iceberg. The investments 2 having been made not only in various States of the country 

outside the State of Jharkhand, but also in other countries 

means that the investigation called for is not only multi-state 

but also multi-national. 6. The matter on the face of it requires a systematic, 

scientific and analysed investigation by an expert investigating 

agency, like the Central Bureau of Investigation. It is 

incorporated in the affidavit that 32 companies have to be 

investigated and the money acquired by illegal means being 

invested in Bangkok (Thailand), Dubai (UAE), Jakarta 

(Indonesia), Sweden and Libya. It is also mentioned that there 

are several companies in other countries in which there are 

huge investments by the accused or with the help of their 

accomplices in foreign countries. The list of countries and 

companies indicate prima facie that the amount involved could 

not be a mere few crores, but would be nearer a few hundred 

crores. 7. The High Court in the impugned judgment has also 

mentioned that it is neither possible nor desirable at this stage 3 to give a positive finding about how much of the crime 

proceeds have been `projected as untainted'. Therefore, there 

is an area of overlap and the same cannot be allowed to form a 

tool in the hands of the accused to scuttle the investigation. Looking to the gravity and magnitude of the matter, after 

hearing learned counsel for the parties, the Division Bench of 

the High Court referred the matter to the Central Bureau of 

Investigation. The High Court also observed that the Central 

Government should exercise the powers under section 45(1A) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (for short 

"the PML Act ") for transferring investigation from the 

Enforcement Directorate to the CBI. If such an order is not 

passed by the Central Government, any material found by the 

CBI during investigation, which leads to an inference of money 

laundering within the PML Act will be shared by the CBI with 

the Enforcement Directorate from time to time, to enable the 

Enforcement Directorate to take such action, as may be 

necessary. 8. The appellant, aggrieved by the said judgment preferred 

this appeal before this court. Shri K.K. Venugopal, the learned 4 senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant formulated 

following substantial questions of law concerning the 

impugned judgment and the interpretation of the PML Act . 9. According to the learned counsel for the appellant, the 

offence of money laundering, under section 4 of the PML Act 

may be investigated only by the Enforcement Directorate and 

tried only by the Special Court under the Act. 10. Mr. Venugopal submitted that the PML Act is a self- contained Code while the Act constituting the CBI is limited. 11. Mr. Venugopal further submitted that the PML Act was 

enacted pursuant to the Political Declaration adopted by the 

Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly on 8th 

to 10th June, 1998, which called upon member States to adopt 5 national money-laundering legislation and programmes. (Preamble to the PML Act). 12. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (`DPSE Act') is 

limited to investigating offences in Delhi and the Union 

Territories. 13. Mr. Venugopal submitted that the PML Act was enacted 

pursuant to Article 253 of the Constitution and would prevail 

over any inconsistent State enactment. Reliance has been 

placed on Maganbhai Ishwarbhai Patel Etc. v. Union of 

India and Another (1970) 3 SCC 400 at para 81 and S. 

Jagannath v. Union of India and Others (1997) 2 SCC 87 at 

para 48. This is however not the case with the DSPE Act . 14. Learned counsel for the appellant also submitted that the PML Act is a special legislation enacted by Parliament and not 

only sets out the `Offences' (Chapter II) but also the `manner of 

investigation', attachment and adjudication (Chapter III), the 

power to summon, search, seizure and arrest (Chapter V), 

establishment of Tribunals (Chapter VI), Special Courts 6 (Chapter VII), Authorities and their powers (Chapter VIII) and 

International arrangements (Chapter IX). 15. Mr. Venugopal contended that the Act establishes a 

specialized agency which consists of Police Officials, Revenue 

Officials, Income Tax Officials and various specialized officials 

drawn from various departments. It also empowers the 

Enforcement Directorate under Section 54 to call on 

assistance of officials from: 16. Learned counsel for the appellant also contended that the 

CBI is comprised only of the police officers and does not have 7 the expertise or wherewithal to deal with the offences under 

the PML Act . In addition, as specifically defined in Section 

55 (c) of the PML Act, the ED is empowered internationally to 

trace the proceeds of crime, with great freedom accorded to the 

ED when the nexus is established with a contracting state. The CBI does not possess such an advantage. 17. Mr. Venugopal placed reliance on the judgment of this 

Court in Central Bureau of Investigation v. State of 

Rajasthan & Others (1996) 9 SCC 735 where the identical 

issue arose of the CBI seeking to investigate offences under 

the FERA, which was the sole domain of the ED, the Court 

held as follows: (ii) FERA is a special and a central legislation 

 enacted later in time than the DSPE Act , and Section 4(2) of the Cr.P.C. makes it clear that only 

 in the absence of any provision in any other law 

 relating to investigation will a member of the police 

 force be authorized to investigate the offence. (iii) The FERA Act is a complete code in itself. (iv) As the allegations in the case related to FERA 

 offences outside India, and the DSPE under Sections 1 and 2 are authorized only to 

 investigate offences inside India, the DSPE 

 member is "not clothed with the authority to 

 investigate offences committed outside India". 18. Learned counsel further submitted that in addition to the 

above, this court in Enforcement Directorate and Another 

v. M. Samba Siva Rao and Others (2000) 5 SCC 431 at para 

5 reiterated that the provisions of the FERA constitute a 

complete code. The provisions of the PML Act are identical, 

and in some ways more wide-ranging. 19. Learned counsel for the appellant further submitted that 

as the allegations in the complaint against the appellant relate 

to so-called national and trans-national offences, the only 

authority which is legally and factually equipped to investigate 

the offences is the Enforcement Directorate. 20. Mr. Venugopal further submitted that in the light of section 45 (1A) read with sections 43 and 44 of the PML Act, 

the CBI has no authority to investigate the offences which are 

the sole domain of the Enforcement Directorate. 21. Mr. Venugopal referred various sections of the PML Act to 

demonstrate that only the Enforcement Directorate can 

investigate the matter. He also submitted that the conduct of 

investigation by the CBI is therefore contrary to both the 

intent of the Legislature as well as the Executive and further if 

the plea of CBI is put to test it leads to absurdity. It is 

submitted that in order to convict a person of an offence 

punishable under section 4 of the PML Act, the Enforcement 

Directorate has to first rule that the scheduled offence is 

committed which can be an offence under the Indian Penal 

Code or the Prevention of Corruption Act or Narcotics, Drugs, 

Psychotropic Substances Act or any other offence given in any 

other Act in the schedule in the PML Act . Once this first part 

is proved then the Enforcement Directorate has to prove how 

much money or what property was derived from committing 

the scheduled offence and lastly how was it being projected as 

untainted. The appellant prayed that the investigation by the 

CBI of Vigilance FIR No.09/09 registered at Ranchi be set 

aside and the appellant be released from illegal detention 

forthwith. 22. The written submissions have also been filed on behalf of 

the CBI and the Directorate of Enforcement. It is mentioned 

in the written submissions that the Vigilance P.S. Case 

No.09/2009 dated 02.07.2009 is instituted inter alia alleging 

commission of offence under sections 409 , 420 , 423 , 424 , 465 , 120-B of IPC and Sections 7 , 10 , 11 , 13(2) read with Section 

13(1)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The said 

complaint was registered on directions of the Special Judge, 

Vigilance, Ranchi, who exercised powers under Section 156(3) of the Cr.P.C. It named Shri Madhu Koda, former Chief 

Minister, Shri Kamlesh Singh, former Minister, Shri Bhanu 

Prasad Shah, former Minister and Bandhu Tirky, former 

Minister of Jharkhand. 23. During the course of investigation into the said complaint 

by the Vigilance, P.S., State of Jharkhand, involvement of the 

appellant Binod Kumar Sinha had surfaced. The FIR also 

contains clear allegations against the appellant. The Central 

Bureau of Investigation is investigating into the commission of 

these offences alone and is not investigating any offence under 1 the PML Act, 2002 since the investigation under the said Act is 

solely and exclusively within the jurisdiction and domain of 

the Enforcement Directorate, which is of course subject to the 

exercise of powers by the Central Government under section 

45 (1-A) of the said Act. 24. In the written submissions, comprehensive information 

about investigation has been submitted. It is also incorporated 

that the appellant, who was an absconder and evaded arrest, 

is not entitled to any relief in exercise of discretionary 

jurisdiction of this court under Article 136 of the Constitution 

of India. It is also prayed that this appeal which challenges 

the order transferring investigation of Vigilance P.S. No. 

09/2009 to the CBI deserves to be dismissed. 25. It is also incorporated that the appellant is involved in a 

multi crore scam - corruption in the matter of grant of iron ore 

mine leases and other acts as more particularly set out. It is 

incorporated in the affidavit that a perusal of various 

provisions of the Act would show that the said Act does not 

empower the Enforcement Directorate to investigate offences 1 under IPC or Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 or any of the 

scheduled offences. It is the PML Act which authorizes the 

Enforcement Directorate only to investigate offences of money 

laundering as defined under Section 3 and punishable under Section 4 thereof. It also provides attachment, adjudication 

and confiscation of the property involved in money laundering 

and setting up of Special Courts. 26. Section 2(p) defines Money Laundering as under: 27. Section 2(ra) defines offence of cross border implications 

and the same is reproduced hereunder:- Explanation.-- Nothing contained in this clause shall 

 adversely affect any investigation, enquiry, trial or 

 proceeding before any authority in respect of the 

 offences specified in Part A or Part B of the 

 Schedule to the Act before the commencement of 

 the Prevention of Money-laundering (Amendment) 

 Act, 2009 . 28. Section 2(u) defines proceeds of crime and the same is 

reproduced hereunder: 29. Section 2(x) defines Schedule and the same is reproduced 

hereunder : 30. Section 2(y) defines Scheduled Offences and the same is 

reproduced hereunder :- 31. Sections 3 and 4 are reproduced hereunder:- 32. Mr. H.P. Raval, learned Additional Solicitor General 

appearing for the C.B.I. submitted that a bare perusal of the 

above provisions makes it clear that the offence of money 

laundering is a stand alone offence within the meaning of the 

said Act and its investigation alone is in the exclusive domain 

of the Enforcement Directorate. 33. He also submitted that the provisions of the said Act do 

not contemplate the investigation of any of the Indian Penal 

Code, Prevention of Corruption Act or any of the scheduled 

offences by the Enforcement Directorate. 34. Mr. Raval contended that having regard to the 

terminology of section 3 , any process or activity connected 

with the proceeds of the crime and projecting it as untainted 

property is the offence of money laundering which is made 

punishable under section 4 . 35. Mr. Raval submitted that section 5 (1) of the said Act 

provides that the Director or Authorised Officer has reason to 

believe, to record in writing on the basis of material in his 

possession that any person is in possession of any proceeds of 

crime, that such person has been charged of having 

committed the scheduled offence and such proceeds of crime 

are likely to be conceded, transfer or dealt with in any manner 

which may result in frustrating any proceedings relating to 

confiscation of such proceeds of crime under Chapter III of the 

said Act, then by an order in writing such property may be 

provisionally attached for a period not exceeding 150 days. 36. According to Mr. Raval, a bare reading of the said 

provision makes it clear that the jurisdiction to initiate action 

of attachment has to be founded on a reasonable belief of a 

person being in possession of any proceeds of the crime and 

not on a concluded investigation of the person being in 

possession of the proceeds of the crime. The distinction is 

clear and it follows from Section 5(1)(b) that the second 

condition for initiation of action of attachment of property 

involved in money laundering is that such person in respect of 

whom there is reason to believe that he is in possession of any 

proceeds of the crime, has been charged of having committed a 

scheduled offence. 37. Mr. Raval contended that if the contentions of the 

appellant were true, then the sections of the said Act would 

have been differently worded. He also submitted that the 

contention of the appellant on the basis of provisions of sections 43 to 45 that any of the scheduled offences can only 

be investigated exclusively by the Enforcement Directorate is 

not justified and tenable at law. 38. Mr. Raval submitted that the embargo from taking 

cognizance by the Special Court of any offence as provided in 

the second proviso of sub section (1) of section 45 is only with 

respect to an offence punishable under section 4 . It is only in 

respect of an offence punishable under section 4 of the 

Prevention of Money Laundering Act that cognizance is barred 

to be taken by the Special Court except on a complaint in 

writing as provided in sub clause (1) and (2) thereof. 39. He also submitted that this provision cannot be 

construed to mean that the Enforcement Directorate has the 

exclusive jurisdiction to investigate any of the scheduled 

offences. 40. Mr. Raval contended that the contention of the appellant 

that merely because under section 44 of the PML Act, the 

Special Court constituted in the area in which the offence has 

been committed, has been authorized statutorily to try the 

scheduled offence and the offence punishable under section 4 is equally unsustainable in law since nothing in the said 

provision of section 44 of the said Act envisages the exclusive 

investigation of the scheduled offences by the Enforcement 1 Directorate. Mr. Raval submitted that the trial of the 

scheduled offence is distinct and different from investigation 

under the PML Act . 41. The above contention of the respondent is buttressed 

having regard to provisions contained in Section 43(2) which 

provides that while trying an offence under the Prevention of 

Money Laundering Act (which means the offence of Money 

Laundering alone) the Special Court shall also try an offence 

other than referred to sub section (1) of section 43 with which 

the accused under the Code of Criminal Procedure be charged 

at the same trial. 42. He contended that the scheme of the Act would, 

therefore, not construe the submission of the appellant that in 

case of there being an allegation of offence of money 

laundering, the scheduled offence also has to be exclusively 

investigated by the Enforcement Directorate. Such a 

contention is not supported by the provisions of the Act since 

there is no provision restricting the investigation of offence 

other than that of money laundering by any appropriate 

investigating agency. 43. Mr. Raval submitted that the money alleged to have been 

so earned is of unprecedented amounts. It is further recorded 

that, however, there is no clear allegation so far about its 

laundering in the sense mentioned in the PML Act . It is 

further observed that there is an allegation of his investment 

in the property, shares etc. not only in India, but, also abroad. Having so observed it is recorded that therefore the basic 

investigation requires determining whether money has been 

acquired by abuse of official position amounting to an offence 

under the Prevention of Corruption Act and under the Indian 

Penal Code and persons by whom the same has been done the 

amount of money which has been so earned and the places 

where it has been invested. 44. According to the learned counsel for the respondents, the 

High Court in the impugned order has recorded cogent 

reasons for directing the investigation by the Central Bureau 

of Investigation. Even this court while issuing notice vide 

order dated 01.09.2010 has directed the CBI to continue to 

investigate as directed by the High Court. Under the 2 circumstances, the appellant is not entitled to any relief as 

contended. 45. Mr. Raval informed the Court that the charge sheet in 

fact has been filed on 12.11.2010 before the Court of 

Competent Jurisdiction alleging inter alia commission of 

offence under section 120-B IPC, Section 9 , Section 13 (2) read 

with section 13(1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 

against various accused including the appellant Shri Binod 

Kumar Sinha. It is further submitted that the investigation is 

still on and subsequent charge sheets may be filed as and 

when during investigation sufficient material surfaces on other 

aspects. 46. In written submission it is categorically stated that the 

Central Bureau of Investigation is investigating into the 

commission of these offences alone and presently is not 

investigating any offence under the PML Act as the 

investigation under the PML Act is solely and exclusively 

within the jurisdiction and domain of the Enforcement 

Directorate, which is of course subject to the exercise of 2 powers by the Central Government under Section 45 (1-A) of 

the said Act. 47. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties at 

length and perused the written submissions filed by them. On 

consideration of the totality of the facts and circumstances, we 

are clearly of the view that no interference is called for. 48. The appeal being devoid of any merit is accordingly 

dismissed. 49. In the facts and circumstances of the case, we direct the 

parties to bear their own costs. ...........................................J.

 (DALVEER BHANDARI)

 ...........................................J.

 (DEEPAK VERMA)

New Delhi; March 29, 2011.