VIBHU BAKHRU, J 1. The present appeal has been filed by the State, impugning a
judgment dated 27.07.2017 passed by the ASJ, Special Fast Track
Court, Rohini Courts whereby the respondent was acquitted of the
offences under Sections 376 / 354D of the Indian Penal Code, 1860
( IPC ). 2. On 12.06.2013, the prosecutrix (name withheld to avoid any
ignominy) filed a complaint alleging that the respondent (hereafter
also referred as the 'accused') used to follow her and had forcibly CRL. A. 52/2020 Page 1 of 14 established physical relations with her at her residence by threatening
her that he would show her video and defame her. It is stated that she
had narrated the said facts to her sister-in-law, who had called the
police. After registration of the case, the statement of the prosecutrix
was recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC on 13.06.2013. 3. On 16.11.2013, the accused was charged with the commission
of the offences punishable under Sections 376 / 453D of the IPC. He
pleaded not guilty and the case was set down for trial. During trial, the
prosecution examined nineteen witnesses. 4. The Trial Court examined the testimony of the prosecutrix and
noted that she had given the complaint dated 12.06.2013 (Ex. PW9/A)
in her own handwriting, wherein she alleged that the accused had been
following her and had forcibly established physical relations with her
under the threat to show videos of her in order to defame her. In her
complaint, she stated that the accused had jumped into her house and
had then established physical relations with her. Thereafter, he
threatened her that he had made a video of her and would put the same
on the internet. He kept establishing physical relations with her for the
next 4-5 months. She stated she that felt harassed by this blackmailing
and narrated the incident to her sister-in-law who, thereafter, called the
police. The prosecutrix also added that the accused would threaten her
that he would kill her husband and would make him consume liquor.
In her cross-examination, the prosecutrix had stated that she knew the
accused since he resided in her neighborhood and that she was on
good terms with the sister-in-law of the accused. Further, she stated CRL. A. 52/2020 Page 2 of 14 that she had been sending SMSs to the accused, when the accused
would throw stones and empty liquor bottles at her house. She stated
that she did not report the same for the fear that her video would be
publicized. 5. Upon analysis of the evidence obtaining in the case, the Trial
Court concluded that there are material inconsistencies between the
complaint and the testimony of the prosecutrix. The Trial Court also
found the version of the prosecutrix improbable. The Trial Court
observed that the prosecutrix had not deposed as to whether her video
was recorded by the accused during the first time he assaulted her or
thereafter. Further, had the video been recorded in her presence and to
her knowledge, she would have known the truth of its existence. But
she had not seen any such video and yet, claimed that she believed the
accused. The Trial Court also noted that the prosecutrix had alleged
that the accused had established physical relations with her on various
instances. However, there was no plausible reason given by the
prosecutrix as to why she did not disclose the same to either her
husband, family members or the family members of the accused,
especially when she admittedly had good relations with the accused's
sister-in-law. 6. The Trial Court noted that the prosecutrix had deposed that the
accused had blackmailed her for about eight months and had
established physical relations with her for 4-5 months. However, on
12.06.2013, when she was medically examined, she informed the
doctor that she was sexually assaulted and had physical relations with CRL. A. 52/2020 Page 3 of 14 the accused for the last time, eight months prior to the said date.
Further, the prosecutrix had stated that the accused would jump
directly into her house. The Trial Court found it improbable that the
accused would have done so as the prosecutrix lived on the upper floor
and her in-laws live on the ground floor of her house. 7. Further, the Trial Court noted that the prosecutrix had been,
admittedly, sending messages to the accused. She stated that she was
compelled to do so, as the accused would throw stones and empty
liquor bottles at her house. However, she had not stated so in her
initial complaint or testified to this effect in her examination-in-chief.
Further, neither the nature nor the frequency of such messages was
disclosed by the prosecutrix. The Trial Court also found it difficult to
believe that the accused could throw the aforesaid items at her house
without being noticed or objected to by the prosecutrix's family or by
other neighbors. In view of these facts, the Trial Court concluded that
the prosecutrix had failed to justify her prolonged silence and that her
testimony did not appear to be natural or probable and therefore, did
not inspire complete confidence. 8. Further, the Trial Court also noted that no witnesses had been
examined to corroborate the allegations made by the prosecutrix. Her
sister-in-law, who she had disclosed the alleged incident to in the first
instance, was not examined. The prosecutrix's husband was examined
to the extent of proving her school certificates. No other witnesses
from the neighborhood were examined in order to corroborate the
testimony of the prosecutrix. The Trial Court also noted that the CRL. A. 52/2020 Page 4 of 14 writings/notes allegedly sent by the prosecutrix to the accused
matched her specimen handwriting and thus, evidenced that she had
herself been communicating with the accused for which, no
explanation was furnished. Evidence 9. Before proceeding further, it is relevant to refer to the
testimonies of some of the witnesses. The prosecutrix was examined
as PW9. In her examination in chief, she stated that she knew the
accused Rinku for the last ten years as he lived in her neighbourhood.
PW9 correctly identified the accused in open court. PW9 stated that
one year prior to the registration of the present case, the accused used
to follow her ('picha karta tha') wherever she went. One day the
accused jumped into her house and did jabardasti with her and
thereafter, he threatened her that if she did not act as per his directions,
he would upload her video on the internet ('dhamki dene laga ki maine
teri video bana le hai agar mere anusar kaam nahi karogi to ishe
internet pe dal donga'). He would threaten her and would call her out
of her residence. She deposed that he had forcibly established physical
relations with her, on the threat of disseminating her video and kept on
making physical relations with her for four/five months as she felt
compelled to do in view of the said threat. Thereafter, he blackmailed
her for about eight months. She stated that she felt so harassed by the
accused blackmailing her that she told her sister-in-law (bhabhi) about
the same. Upon being told of the incident, she (the sister-in-law of the
prosecutrix) called the police at no. 100. She stated that the accused CRL. A. 52/2020 Page 5 of 14 would threaten that he would kill her husband and would make him
consume liquor. 10. In her cross-examination, she stated that she had normal
relations with the accused's sister-in-law ('jesai padose ke hote hai')
and that the sister-in-law if the accused used to come to meet PW9's
mother-in-law. Further, she stated that she had often quarreled with
her husband about him consuming liquor with the accused, however,
he did not pay any heed to the same. Thereafter, she stated that when
the accused would throw stones and liquor bottles at her house, she
would message him since she felt compelled to do so. She stated that
in the building where she resides, there were other tenants as well. The
ground floor was occupied by her mother-in-law and brother-in-law
and she lived on the upper floor with her husband and two children.
She stated that she had not seen the video on the basis of which the
accused was blackmailing her and she was only told of the same by
the accused. 11. Bhagat Singh, husband of the prosecutrix, deposed as PW-10.
He deposed her date of birth of PW9 to be 15.09.1984 and affirmed
the school certificate of PW9. He further identified his signature at
various points on certain documents shown to him. 12. WSI Sunita, PS Daryaganj deposed as PW18. She deposed that
on 12.06.2013, she was posted at PS Vijay Vihar. She was directed to
go to Sanjay Gandhi Police Post, where she met ASI Surender, W/ASI
Krishna, counselor Radha Bhardwaj and the complainant CRL. A. 52/2020 Page 6 of 14 (Prosecutrix). She stated that the house of the accused was situated in
front of the house of the prosecutrix. The accused was found standing
in front of his house and he was arrested by her on identification. She
deposed that the accused pointed at one bed lying in the room
constructed on the first floor of the prosecutrix's house, where the
accused had established physical relationship with the prosecutrix
forcibly. In her cross examination, she affirmed that the accused had
never shown her any video clipping by which the accused blackmailed
the prosecutrix. She affirmed that no one came forward to claim that
they had seen the said recording. The complainant did not show her
any stone or empty bottle, which was allegedly thrown into her house
by the accused. Further, she stated that no letter/SMS was shown to
her by the complainant. 13. In his statement under Section 313 of the CrPC, the accused
denied that he knew the prosecutrix for the last ten years. He denied
that he would follow the accused or had established forcible physical
relations with her. He denied having prepared a video of the
prosecutrix and blackmailing her. He denied that he had been
blackmailing the prosecutrix for about eight months and would jump
into her house to establish physical relations with her. He stated that
he and the husband of the prosecutrix would consume liquor together
as friends and he would drink with the accused out of his own free
will. He affirmed that he was arrested, however, he stated that the case
against him is a false case. Discussion and Reasons 14. At the outset, it is necessary to observe that the case of the
prosecution rests almost entirely on the testimony of the prosecutrix
(PW-9). In her initial statement to the police, she had stated that she is
a housewife and resides at the given address. She alleged that the
respondent, who lives in the neighbouring house, used to follow her
whenever she went to the market. He threatened her that he had her
video, which he would show to everybody to defame her. She alleged
that he had been forcibly establishing physical relationships with her
for the past one year and desired to forcibly maintain physical
relationship with her in future as well. She alleged that he keeps
threatening her that he would jump into her house and tell everyone
that he done so because she had called him there and this would lead
to her being defamed. In addition, she stated he also threatened that he
would upload her video on the net. She stated that she was under fear
to such an extent that she could not go anywhere. She stated that in
the circumstances, she had disclosed the same to her sister-in-law
(bhabhi) who then called the police at 100 number in order for
proceedings to be initiated against the respondent. It is relevant to note
that according to the prosecutrix, the initial call to the police
authorities was made by her sister-in-law. However, for some reason,
the prosecution has not examined the sister-in-law of the prosecutrix. 15. The statement of the prosecutrix under Section 164 of the CrPC
was recorded on 13.06.2013. In her statement, she stated that the
respondent had forced himself on her (mere sath jabardasti ki thi) and CRL. A. 52/2020 Page 8 of 14 she had stated that he had made a video of her and if she did not
follow his dictates, he would show the video to everybody. She
reiterated that the defendant had threatened her that he would jump
into her house and inform everybody that she had called him there and
this would result in her being defamed in the locality. She stated that
she, being afraid of his threats, had done whatever he had asked her to
do. She stated that for about four to five months, he had forcibly
established physical relationships with her. She now stated that he
would call her and meet her outside. He would also threaten that he
would inform everything to her sister-in-law. She stated that the
respondent had been blackmailing her for the past eight months and
she could not tolerate the same anymore. She also alleged that the
accused used to jump into her house to establish physical relationships
with her. In addition, she also stated that he had threatened to kill her
husband. 16. As is apparent from the above, there are significant
improvements in her statement recoded under Section 164 of the
CrPC. She had now alleged that the respondent had also threatened
that he would kill her husband. No such allegation had been made in
her initial complaint. She now also stated that he used to jump into her
house for forcibly establishing physical relationships. However, no
such allegation had been made earlier. She also stated that he would
phone her and call her out to meet her. This was also not one of the
statements made initially. 17. In her testimony before the Trial Court, she further improved
her stand. She now stated that one year prior to the registration of the
FIR, the respondent had jumped into her house and had forced himself
on her and thereafter, he started threatening her that he had prepared a
video and if she would not act as per his directions, he would upload
the same on the internet. In her statement under Section 164 of the
CrPC, she had not stated that he had started threatening her with
uploading her video on the internet after he had jumped into her house
and had forced himself on her. 18. In her testimony, the prosecutrix stated that she was fed up of
being blackmailed and therefore, she informed about the incident to
her sister-in-law ("iske blackmailing se mai itni tang aa gayi thi ke
maine apani bhabhi ko sab kuch batha diya") and on doing so, her
sister-in-law had called the police. She stated that the respondent used
to threaten to kill her husband. She now made a further allegation that
he used to make him drink liquor. 19. The prosecutrix was sent for medical examination and was
examined on 12.06.2013. The MLC indicates that she reported history
of sexual assault eight months ago and had stated that she had physical
relationships with a person other than her husband eight months ago.
According to the MLC, her last contact with the respondent was eight
months prior to her examination. 20. In her initial statement to the police, which led to registration of
the aforesaid FIR, the prosecutrix had stated that the respondent had CRL. A. 52/2020 Page 10 of 14 established physical relationships with her since about a year and
desired to continue establishing the same in future as well (mere se
kareeb ek saal se jabardasti sharirik sambandh mere saath banaye
aur Rinku ne mere saath jabardasti sharirik sambandh mere ghar par
aakar banaye aur aage bhi jabardasti sharirik sambandh banakar
rakhna chahta hai"). 21. There is inconsistency in her initial statement to the police; her
statement recorded under Section 164 of the Cr.P.C.; and the MLC
with regard to the forcible physical contact by the accused. According
to her initial statement, the incidents of establishing physical relations
were continuing since the past one year. However, in her statement
recorded under Section 164 CrPC, she stated that he had done so over
a period of four to five months and her MLC indicated that her last
contact with the respondent was eight months prior to the date of
examination. 22. It is also relevant to note that the complaint made by the
prosecutrix, as well as her testimony, are completely vague and no
particulars have been provided as to on which dates the accused
committed the offending acts. Although it is stated that the respondent
used to blackmail the prosecutrix, she had neither given any particular
incident nor provided any details. She did not even provide the details
of the last incident that eventually prompted her to inform her sister-
in-law (Bhabhi). 23. In her cross-examination, the prosecutrix had stated that she
used to have telephonic conversation with the respondent. She had
also exchanged messages with him. However, she stated that the
respondent used to threaten her on phone and she had messaged him
only when he used to throw stones and empty liquor bottles at her
house. 24. It is material to note that the prosecutrix had not made any such
allegations in her initial complaint; in her statement recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC.; or, in her examination-in-chief. 25. The Trial Court found it difficult to believe the said testimony
since, admittedly, the prosecutrix, her husband and their two children
were not the sole occupants of the building. They lived on the first
floor of the house, while the ground floor was occupied by the mother-
in-law and the brother-in-law of the prosecutrix. Therefore, any
incident of throwing stones or empty liquor bottles inside the premises
would not escape their attention. 26. The mobile phone of the respondent was seized and examined
and it did not reveal any offending video. The prosecutrix also
admitted that she had not seen any video. There is also no information
as to when such a video, if at all, was prepared. According to the
prosecutrix, she had succumbed to threats of her video being
uploaded. However, neither her nor any other person had seen that
video. There is no information as to when and how the said video was
prepared. 27. The prosecutrix had explained her conduct of not reporting the
incident, either of the respondent forcing himself on her or throwing of
stones and empty liquor bottles at her house, on the ground that she
was afraid that her video would be disseminated. A video, which no
one has seen and neither has anyone testified to its making. 28. It has also been brought in evidence that certain letters/notes,
written by the prosecutrix to the respondent, have also been seized.
The fact that said notes were in her handwriting was also established.
The plain reading of the said notes does not indicate that the
prosecutrix was being blackmailed. On the contrary, it does indicate
that the prosecutrix enjoyed a close relationship with the respondent.
In one of her note, she had explained that she did not have any affair
with anybody and he could see her face for a few days, thereafter, he
would not get a chance to see her (mera kisi ke saath koi chakkar nahi
hai. Kuch din aur meri shakal dekh lo baad mein to dekhne ko bhi
nahi milegi). Clearly, this is not a statement that a person who is being
blackmailed and exploited would write. The note also indicates that
she required a mobile phone from the respondent. 29. The mobile phone seized from the respondent also showed
certain SMSs from the prosecutrix. The transcript of the said SMSs
also does not support the case of the prosecution. If it is accepted that
the SMSs were sent by the prosecutrix, it would indicate that her
relationship was entirely voluntary. 30. Although it is not necessary that the testimony of a victim be
corroborated to sustain conviction, however, this is subject to the
condition that the same is found reliable. Nevertheless, given the delay
in filing of the FIR; the improvements in the statement made by the
prosecutrix; and the fact that the same lacks any specific details of the
incident of blackmailing, this Court is of the view that it would be
unsafe to convict the respondent on the sole testimony of the
prosecutrix. The prosecution must establish the commission of offence
beyond any reasonable doubt. In the present case, the evidence
obtaining in the case leaves sufficient room for doubt as to the
commission of the offence, as alleged. 31. The conclusion of the Trial Court, after examining the evidence
obtaining in this case, is a plausible view. It is well settled that a
Court's verdict of acquittal should not be interfered with until the
same is found to be manifestly erroneous. Thus, in the given facts of
this case, this Court finds no reason to interfere with the impugned
judgment. 32. The appeal is, accordingly, dismissed. VIBHU BAKHRU, J
JANUARY 27, 2020
RK CRL. A. 52/2020 Page 14 of 14