[1.0] RULE. Learned APP Mr. H.K. Patel waives service of
 notice of Rule on behalf of the respondent - State of Page 1 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 Gujarat. Heard learned Senior Advocate Mr. I.H. Syed
 assisted by learned advocate Mr. R.D. Dave for the
 petitioner and learned Additional Advocate General Mr.
 Mitesh Amin assisted by learned APP Mr. H.K. Patel for
 the respondent - State of Gujarat. PROLOGUE: FACTUAL MATRIX: Hence, no offence is made out against the petitioner
 under the provisions of the GUJCTOC Act and there is Page 6 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 no any evidence which suggests that present petitioner
 is a member of any organized crime syndicate. [4.2] Further, to bolster his argument he has relied on the
 decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court rendered in the case
 of State of Maharashtra vs. Shiva @ Shivaji Ramaji
 Sonawane reported in (2015) 14 SCC 272 and
 submitted that, as the GUJCTOC Act is promulgated on
 01.12.2019 and no any offence is registered thereafter
 against the present petitioner and prior thereto one
 offence was registered which is already quashed and set
 aside. Hence, petitioner has not indulged in any unlawful
 activity after promulgation of the GUJCTOC Act and
 petitioner is not indulged in continuing unlawful activity
 after the promulgation of the GUJCTOC Act. Further, he
 has relied on the decision in the case of State of
 Maharashtra & Ors. vs. Lalit Somdatta Nagpal & Anr. reported in (2007) 4 SCC 171 and submitted that Court
 is bound to strictly interpret the provision of law and no
 any serious offence is alleged against the petitioner
 which is punishable with imprisonment for more than 3
 years or no any charge-sheet is filed against the
 petitioner and hence, no offence is made out. In the
 case of Lalit Somdatta Nagpal (Supra) the offence was
 registered under the Sales Tax Act and Essential
 Commodities Act which were simple in nature. Herein
 also, offence is simple in nature and has already been Page 7 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 quashed by the Court in quashing petition by consent.
 Further, he has submitted that in connection with the
 present offence also, while considering bail application
 of co-accused Nos.4 and 8 viz. Atul Vitthalbhai Bhanderi
 and Mukeshbhai Vallabhbhai Abhanghi respectively, the
 High Court and Hon'ble Supreme Court has considered
 the role and come to conclusion that there was no any
 regular participation in any crime on the part of the
 accused Nos.4 and 8 and were enlarged on bail.
 Considering the requireemnts to invoke the provisions
 under the GUJCTOC Act and consdiering the "continuing
 unlawful activity", present accused is having lesser role
 than the said accused Nos.4 and 8 viz. Atul Bhanderi and
 Mukesh Abhanghi. Hence, he has requested to allow the
 present petition and quash and set aside the impugned
 FIR as impugned complaint is nothing but abuse of
 process of law. No other submissions have been made
 by the learned Senior Advocate for the petitioner. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT - STATE: After collecting sufficient material and evidence
 including whatsapp call and any other material, charge-
 sheet is filed. The witnesses have given statement
 against the present petitioner. The present petitioner
 and his brother are directly connected with accused
 No.1. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

[5.2] Further, prior to eight years, by adopting same modus
 operandi and in the year 2020 also, property was
 purchased by the present petitioner and his brother.
 Both the brothers are doing illegal activities in
 partnership of accused No.1. Within short span of three
 years, they have accumulated in large number of
 properties by indulging into such illegal activities. Even,
 other witnesses have also stated that the present
 petitioner and his brother have also created forged
 power of attorney concerning property situated at
 village Kasundra and said property is having value of
 Rs.27 Crore and then executed the forged document
 and accused No.1 has also extorted money and grabbed
 the land in connivance and collusion of present
 petitioner. Sufficient material available against
 syndicate alongwith call details of members of
 organized crime syndicate which is part of charge-sheet.
 The present petitioner alongwith his brother and other
 accused under the leadership of accused No.1 collected
 ransom and margins from the builders, farmers and land
 owners and if they fail to do so then they put the titles
 of property under cloud and engaged in antisocial
 activities. [5.3] Further, he has submitted that the question does not
 arise herein no any offence is registered prior to 10
 years because to invoke the GUJCTOC Act only it is Page 10 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 required to be shown that petitioner is a member of
 organized crime syndicate and no individual charge-
 sheet is required. Hence, no case is made out to quash
 and set aside the impugned proceeding. [5.4] Insofar as reliance placed on the decision in the case of Sandip Omprakash Gupta (Supra) by the learned Senior
 Advocate for the petitioner is concerned, learned AAG
 has submitted that said decision will not be helpful to
 the petitioner as all the orders and observations are
 made while considering the bail application. What is
 required to be considered is while exercising the power
 to invoke the provisions of the GUJCTOC Act, the issue
 is settled now by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Zakir Abdul Mirajkar vs. The State of Maharashtra &
 Ors. reported in 2022 SCC OnLine 1092 wherein the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court has categorically denied about
 the requirement of more than one charge-sheet against
 individual to invoke the provisions of the MCOCA. The
 GUJCTOC Act is also having pari materia of the said
 MCOCA wherein, Apex Court has clearly held that the
 approval under the Act is in respect of an offence and
 not in respect of the offender. Herein, the Court has to
 consider that. Once it is established that petitioner is a
 member of organized crime syndicate then proceeding
 would lie and proceeding under the GUJCTOC Act can
 be invoked and further Hon'ble Apex Court has been Page 11 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 pleased to consider that more than one charge-sheet is
 not required to be filed with respect to each accused
 person. Hence, the argument canvassed by the
 petitioner is not acceptable as requirement of
 registration of the offence / or charge-sheet is not
 required in individual capacity as the petitioner is
 member of alleged organized crime syndicate then need
 not have more than one charge-sheet filed against the
 present petitioner. Hence, he has submitted that in view
 of the involvement of the present petitioner in the
 offence, has requested to dismiss the present petition in
 view of the law laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court in the
 case of Zakir Abdul Mirajkar (Supra). [6.0] Refuting the submissions of learned AAG Mr. Mitesh
 Amin, learned Senior Advocate Mr. Syed has submitted
 that, Hon'ble Apex Court has interpreted the provisions
 of the GUJCTOC Act in the case of Sandip Omprakash
 Gupta (Supra) wherein, it is observed that more than
 one charge-sheets is required to be considered with
 respect to the offences punishable with more than
 three years' imprisonment. The Apex Court has also
 considered the decision in the case of Shiva @ Shivaji
 Ramaji Sonawane (Supra) and concluded that after
 promulgation of the GUJCTOC Act, no any offence is
 registered against the present petitioner and hence, in
 present offence petitioner cannot be considered as Page 12 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 continuously engaged in with unlawful activities. As the
 pronouncement in the case of Sandip Omprakash
 Gupta (Supra) is a subsequent one, the Court has to
 consider keeping in mind the fact as divergent views in
 two decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and
 decision of later in point of time delivered the Bench is
 required to be considered. Herein, the decision in the
 case of Sandip Omprakash Gupta (Supra) is subsequent
 to the decision in the case of Zakir Abdul Mirajkar (Supra) and hence, the Court has to consider the
 subsequent decision as a binding precedent and in this
 regard, he has relied on the decision in the case of Govindanaik G. Kalaghatigi vs. West Patent Press Co.
 Ltd. and Anr. reported in AIR 1980 (Kar.) 92. Hence, he
 has requested to allow the present petition. ANALYSIS & REASONING: (i) if such offence has resulted in the death of any
 person, be punishable with death or imprisonment
 for life and shall also be liable to a fine, subject to
 a minimum fine of rupees one lakh; (ii) in any other case, be punishable with
 imprisonment for a term which shall not be less
 than five years but which may extend to
 imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to a
 fine, subject to a minimum fine of rupees five
 lakhs. (2) Whoever conspires or attempts to commit or
 advocates, abets or knowingly facilitates the
 commission of an organised crime or any act
 preparatory to organised crime, shall be
 punishable with imprisonment for a term which
 shall be not less than five years but which may
 extend to imprisonment for life and shall also be
 liable to a fine, subject to a minimum fine of
 rupees five lakhs. (5) Whoever holds any property derived or
 obtained from commission of an organised crime
 or which has been acquired through the organised
 crime syndicate funds shall be punishable with a
 term which shall not be less than three years but
 which may extend to imprisonment for life and
 shall also be liable to fine, subject to a minimum
 fine of rupees two lakhs." [11.0] Upon bare perusal of aforesaid provisions it is clear that,
 to invoke the provisions of GUJCTOC Act, prosecution
 has to show only that, the petitioner - accused is a
 member of syndicate or a gang and individual charge-
 sheet is not necessary and charge-sheet or offences
 against syndicate must have been registered. Even Page 21 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 earlier offence registered against petitioner being I-CR
 No.221/2014 for the offences punishable under Sections
 326 , 323 , 143 , 147 , 148 and 149 of the IPC were non-
 compoundable offences and within three days after
 registration of the said complaint, though the
 complainant was hospitalized, he was pressurized and
 coerced to enter into compromise and on the basis of
 compromise, proceedings of said FIR being I-CR
 No.221/2014 were quashed and set aside by the
 coordinate Bench of this Court. In this regard, the
 complainant of the said FIR has also given a statement
 and he is also cited as a witness in the impugned
 offence. He has stated that, though complainant in the
 said offence had sustained grievous hurt though under
 coercion he forced to settle the offence which clearly
 indicates the involvement and unlawful activity of
 present petitioner - accused. Even, the petitioner is also
 member of syndicate and number of witnesses have
 given statement before the Superintendent of Police
 and Dy.S.P. supporting the case of prosecution and
 perusing the investigation papers also it appears that
 the present petitioner is a member of organized crime
 syndicate. Considering statements of 24 witnesses
 including two Advocates (to maintain secrecy, security
 and interest of witnesses, names of witnesses are not
 mentioned). NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

[11.1] Perusing the said statements it further appears that the
 present petitioner is a member of syndicate and he is
 close to accused No.1 and accused persons are involved
 in unlawful activities of syndicate and abetting the
 unlawful act of syndicate led by accused No.1. The
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Kavitha Lankesh
 vs. State of Karnataka and Others reported in (2022)
 12 SCC 753 (3 Judges' Bench) has been pleased to hold
 that, the requirement for invocation of offences under Sections 3(1) and sections 3(2) to 3(5) of the Karnataka
 Control of Organized Crimes Act, 2020 is that more than
 two charge-sheets should be having been filed for the
 specified offences before the competent Court in the
 previous ten years. Further, it has been held that it
 applies only to the offence of organized crime
 punishable under Section 3(1) and not to offences
 specified in Ss.3(2) to (5) and that too such charge-
 sheets need to be only qua the organized crime
 syndicate and not qua individual members and
 categorically held that, it is not essential that more than
 three charge-sheets have been filed against a person so
 named before a competent Court within the preceding
 period of 10 years and that Court had taken the
 cognizance of such offence. Hence, on the said ground,
 quashing of the impugned proceedings is not
 permissible as said requirement is only for the offences
 registered only under section 3(4) or in the case wherein Page 23 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 to invoke the provision of section 3(1) herein against
 petitioner alleged that he is associated with syndicate
 and syndicate as syndicate in involved in unlawful
 activity. [11.2] Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Zakir
 Abdul Mirajkar (Supra), on the same issue has
 answered by elaborately discussing and considering the
 decisions in the case of Kavitha Lankesh (Supra); State
 of Maharashtra & Ors. vs. Lalit Somdatta Nagpal &
 Anr. reported in ( 2007) 4 SCC 171 and Govind
 Sakharam Ubhe vs. State of Maharashtra and has been
 pleased to hold in paragraph Nos.76 and 77(c) as under: [11.6] Even, it has come on record that, under coercion, non- compoundable offences under Section 326 of IPC have
 been settled by the present petitioner and in this regard
 statement of concerned complainant is also recorded.
 Sometimes, though offence is not serious one however,
 by such offences a proclivity of petitioner - accused
 through which the accused is involved in illegal activity
 also reflects. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

[11.7] Further, learned Senior Advocate for the petitioner has
 submitted that Court should follow the binding decision
 of Hon'ble Supreme Court. in the case of Sandip
 Omprakash Gupta (Supra). In the case of Govindanaik
 G. Kalaghatigi (Supra) the Karnataka High Court held
 that if divergent opinion of equal strength of Bench,
 Court should follow the later one. To deal with aforesaid
 submission, considering the various pronouncements of
 Hon'ble Apex Court on the subject of precedential or
 binding strength of decision following fact is culled out : Judge Bench will be considered to be the
 decision of a larger Bench, when compared to an
 earlier decision of a two-Judge Bench). Where,
 however, the decision of an earlier larger Bench Page 30 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 has been noticed and explained, then the
 decision of the later smaller Bench will be the
 binding precedent. (b) A decision which merely adds to the principle
 stated by a larger Bench or explains the earlier
 decision of a larger Bench will not be considered
 to be a decision in conflict with the earlier larger
 Bench. (c) If the decisions of coordinate Benches of equal
 strength differ, and the later decision does not
 notice or explain the earlier decision(s), then, the
 court may choose that decision which it
 considers to be more closer to the facts of the
 case or which more directly deals with the legal
 issue. Where, however, the later decision notices
 the earlier decision and distinguishes it, the
 subsequent decision will prevail over the earlier
 decision. (d) If a court considering a particular provision of
 law has two decisions before it, one laying down
 thelaw with reference to the same or identical
 provision of law, and the other laying down the
 lawwithreference to a similar but not an
 identical provision, the court is bound to follow Page 31 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 the decision that deals with the same/identical
 provision, even though the other decision with
 reference to a similar but not identical section, is
 of a larger Bench or of a later date. (e) When a Constitution Bench has rendered a
 decision on an issue, the subsequent Benches of
 lesser strength decide a similar question
 somewhat differently, and do not explain the
 decision of the earlier Constitution Bench, the
 later decision(s) should be. construed in
 consonance with the principles laid down by the
 Constitütion Bench, as the subsequent smaller
 Benches could not be taken to have intended a
 different view. Same principle will apply in considering the inter
 se preferability of the decisions of the High Court. [11.8] Moreover, I lay hand on decision of the Madhya Pradesh
 High Court rendered in the case of Smt. Kalabai
 Choubey and Others vs. Rajabahadur Yadav and
 Another reported in AIR 2002 Madhya Pradesh 8 in
 paragraph 47 has discussed about the binding nature of
 direct conflict between the decisions of co-equal
 Benches of Hon'ble Supreme Court and come to
 conclusion that High Court is bound to follow the Page 32 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 judgment which appears to state law more elaborately
 and more accurately and in confirmity with scheme of a
 statute and both views of Supreme Court are not
 binding. Paragraph 47 of the said decision reads as
 follows: Keeping in mind the aforesaid principle as in the
 case of Zakir Abdul Mirajkar (Supra), the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court has elaborately discussed the object of
 legislature of MCOCA and even the provisions of
 MCOCA which are pari materia with the GUJCTOC Act
 and elaborately discussed the scope of applicability of
 sections and interpreted the provision of law
 considering all other pronouncements, answered all
 issues raised in the batch of petitions. Hence, as the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court has more elaborately discussed
 the Act and the provisions of law and enunciated the
 law, same is required to be followed. In view of the
 above, argument canvassed by learned Senior Advocate
 Mr. Syed is not sustainable and authority relied on the Page 33 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 case of Govindanaik G. Kalaghatigi (Supra) and the
 observations made in the bail orders which are tentative
 in nature and are discretionary orders, would not avail
 any assistance to the petitioner. [11.9] Further, in the present case, offence is registered for
 the offence punishable under Sections 386 , 387 , 506(1) and 506(2) of the IPC. The said sections are for extortion
 and putting person and witnesses in fear or causing
 injury and the FIR clearly reveals that the petitioner -
 accused has committed the said offences. Further, the
 petitioner - accused has committed the offences in aid
 of section 120(B) of the IPC. It is needless to say that, to
 establish charge of criminal conspiracy under section
 120 of the IPC, there must be an agreement, either
 expressed or implied. And for that, no proof of direct
 meeting or communication is needed. There must be
 active cooperation. In other words, joint evil intent is
 mandatory. When any act is done even though it is
 lawful but done by illegal means, it constitutes criminal
 conspiracy. The first ingredient of criminal conspiracy is
 agreement between two or more persons. This
 agreement is the crux of the offence and can be explicit
 or implicit, written or oral. The second essential
 component is the intention to commit an illegal act or a
 legal act by illegal means. The intent should directly
 related to the outcome that the conspirators plan to Page 34 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 achieve. The essential ingredients of criminal conspiracy
 are: (i) An agreement between two or more persons; (ii)
 The agreement must be related to doing or causing to
 be done either (a) an illegal act and (b) an act that is not
 illegal in itself but is done by illegal means; (iii) The
 agreement may be expressed or implied or partly
 expressed and partly implied; (iv) As soon as the
 agreement is made, the conspiracy arises, and the
 offence is committed and (v) the same offence is
 continued to be committed so long as the combination
 persists. It is needless to say that so far as the allegation
 of conspiracy is concerned, it is very difficult to collect
 any direct evidence of conspiracy. From the material
 collected or the evidence adduced on record, inference
 of conspiracy is required to be drawn. [12.0] Further, in the case on hand, present petitioner - accused is absconding and proceeding under Sections 70 and 82 of the CrPC are initiated and as per the scheme
 of GUJCTOC Act, there is a provision of bail even if we
 keep it aside even though as non-bailable warrant then
 proceedings under Section 82 of the CrPC are initiated
 and present petitioner has continuously remained
 absconding and not joined the investigation. Prima facie,
 it appears that petitioner is involved in offence and as
 discussed above, to invoke the provision of GUJCTOC
 Act, more than one charge-sheet is not required to be Page 35 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 filed against an individual but against the syndicate and
 it reveals from the allegation and investigation papers,
 it clearly emerges that present petitioner - accused is
 the member of crime syndicate and he is abetting
 accused No.1 in the offence. [13.0] Though draft amendment dated 13.12.2023 is allowed
 by the coordinate Bench vide order dated 23.04.2024,
 same has not been carried out till date and no other
 grounds argued during the course of argument. Insofar,
 another ground that though petition is not amended,
 petition is filed under Section 482 of CrPC and
 subsequently sought to amend the petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India but as the
 coordinate Bench has accepted the draft amendment
 moved by learned advocate in CR.MA No.1/2021 in
 CR.MA No.2049/2021 however, this Court considered
 the said issue qua issuance of proclamation under Section 82 of the CrPC. Under Article 227 of the
 Constitution, Court has only supervisory jurisdiction and
 perusing the order passed under Section 82 of the CrPC,
 prior to that the learned Special Judge has been pleased
 to issue warrant under Section 70 of the CrPC and while
 failing to comply with the said directions subsequently
 after following the due process and assigning the
 reasons, order was passed under Section 82 and
 proclamation came to be issued. As after registration of
 FIR, petitioner remained out of reach and investigation Page 36 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 is concluded qua 12 accused and trial is also going on
 and in progress qua other accused, in that event, to
 secure the presence of the petitioner, learned Special
 Judge has not committed any error in passing the order
 under Section 82 of the CrPC. One of the ground
 mentioned in the application is that, during the
 pendency, proclamation being issued and petitioner was
 pursuing the remedy under the law before the Court but
 said argument is also not sustainable in view of the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Shrikant Upadhyay vs. State of Bihar and Savitaben
 vs. State of Gujarat reported in 2004 SCC OnLine (Guj) 435. Further, filing of petition cannot be said to be an
 appearance of petitioner - accused before the
 competent Court. Under Sections 82 and 83 of the CrPC,
 physical appearance of accused before the concerned
 Court is more important and accused cannot take
 shelter of any such pending proceedings in absence of
 any order / interim relief in his favor. [13.1] Even otherwise, Section 20 of the GUJCTOC Act being
 applied with the modification and powers of
 anticipatory bail under Section 438 of the CrPC barred
 under Section 20(3) of the GUJCTOC Act. If the request
 is accepted, in that event also indirectly it amounts to
 granting of pre-arrest bail. Hence, no case is made out
 to quash the order passed under Section 82 of the CrPC Page 37 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 also. [14.0] So far allegation of malafide is concerned, no specific
 averments or grounds raised in the petition and
 petitioner also failed to show malafide on the part of
 the authority and even, under Section 20(1) of the
 GUJCTOC Act, the offences under Section 3 are
 governed by presumptions and until and unless
 presumption is rebutted or contrary proved, then
 presumption is not that the accused had committed
 such offence and under Section 21(2), in prosecution of
 offence punishable under Section 3(2) , if it is proved
 that the accused has rendered any financial assistance
 to a person having knowledge that such person is
 accused of or reasonable suspect of an offence of
 organized crime syndicate then presumption is also
 applicable under Section 3(2) of the GUJCTOC Act.
 Considering the aforesaid fact, no case is made out to
 quash and set aside the proceedings. [15.0] The additional grounds dated 20.04.2021 have been
 submitted by one Mayankbhai Abhanghi son of present
 petitioner wherein it is mainly contended that to invoke
 the provisions of the GUJCTOC Act, more than one
 charge-sheet is required to be filed before the
 competent Court and as per Section 22 of the GUJCTOC
 Act, no information about the commission of offence of Page 38 of 42 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 03 00:02:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

 organized crime under the GUJCTOC Act shall be
 recorded without the prior approval of the Police
 Officer not below the rank of Officer In Charge of the
 concerned District or the Commissioner of Police and
 without prior permission no Court can take cognizance
 of such offence. Herein, complaint is filed and
 investigation is carried out without any authority in
 breach of mandatory provision of Section 22 of the
 GUJCTOC Act as the Investigating Officer has filed an
 application under Section 70 of the CrPC before the
 learned Special Judge treating the petitioner has
 absconder though the petitioner has availed the remedy
 of quashing under Section 482 of the CrPC. Though
 aforesaid grounds are raised in the petition, no
 argument is canvassed or raised qua such grounds. It is
 pertinent to note that son of the present petitioner viz.
 Mayankkumar Rameshbhai Abhanghi has filed additional
 grounds in support of the petition subsequent to filing
 of the petition. It is needless to say that third party has
 no locus to file or raise any grievance in present
 proceeding. Hence, such additional grounds / grievances
 raised by third party are not required to be considered. In this regard, reference is required to be made to the
 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sanjay Tiwari vs. State of Uttar Pradesh reported in
 (2021) 15 SCC 660. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/2049/2021 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 02/08/2024

 undefined

[16.0] Even otherwise, so far as applicability of approval and
 section 16 of the GUJCTOC Act qua recording of
 statement of accused is concerned, vires of the said
 provision is already challenged by the co-accused viz.
 Yashpalsinh Mahendrasinh Jadeja and others by way of
 filing Special Criminal Application No.2097 of 2021 by
 which is pending before the Division Bench of this Court
 for adjudication. Herein, in the case at hand, intelligence is
 received by SP and Dy.S.P. and statements are recorded.
 Hence, question to consider at this stage that without
 authorization confession being recorded and
 investigation being carried out does not arise at this
 stage. [17.0] It is also apposite to refer to the decision in the case of
 Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. vs. State of
 Maharshtra reported in 2021 SCC Online SC 315
 wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed as
 under: It is also appropriate to refer to the decision of
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State v. M.
 Maridoss reported in (2023) 4 SCC 338 wherein it is
 held that quashing of FIR exercising power under Section 482 of the CrPC without giving any reasonable
 time or opportunity to the Investigating agency to
 investigate into the allegations made in the FIR is not
 permissible. CONCLUSION: