N. KIRUBAKARAN, J. said Prime Minister Narendra Modi while addressing a group of school

 students at "Pariksha Pe Charcha Programme" in Talkatora Indoor Stadium,

 New Delhi, in February, 2018. It is not only the Hon'ble Prime Minister,

 but Indologists are also of the opinion that Tamil is one of the ancient

 languages in the world having literary history of more than 2500 years.

 Though Prakrit language of "Ashokan Edicts" which is stated to be

 third century BC dated from 268 BC to 232 BC is considered to be

 oldest in India, it is scientifically proved by carbon dating from the samples

 of potsherds inscribed with Tamil letters taken from Keezhadi, Porunthal,

 Alagankulam and Kodumanal that Tamil is one of the ancient languages of

 the World and the most ancient language of India. The samples of

 potsherds which contain Tamil alphabets taken from Kodumanal date back 5/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 to fifth century BC dated 480 BC. Similarly, samples taken from Keezhadi

 would prove that Tamil language has been in existence as language of

 people since 6th century dated 580 BC. Pottery samples with Tamil letters

 from Porunthal indicate the age as 6th century dated 520 BC. Apart from

 scientific proof, epigraphic inscriptions which have been found throughout

 the world, especially in India, establish that Tamil is a language that is used

 invariably in stone inscriptions. In Pan India, Tamil inscriptions which date

 back upto 3rd century BCE are the highest even as per the statement of the

 Archaeological Survey of India. Sangam literature of Tamil language also

 record the antiquity of the language. 2. The samples of potsherds with Tamil letters not only prove the

 antiquity of Tamil language, but would also prove the educated masses, who

 were living at that time and the language, was also, by that time, enriched

 and known to masses and not confined to royal charts or royal courtiers as

 found in respect of other languages. Tamil language has been passed on for

 generations together for the past more than 2600 years. However, as on

 date, it faces bleak future. The interest to learn the language is shockingly

 declining and the students undergoing studies in Tamil medium is sharply 6/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 decreasing among the masses and the parents are interested in admitting

 their wards only in English medium, ignoring mother tongue, Tamil

 language. Though studying in English medium is justified for various

 reasons including employment, students are not even willing to choose

 Tamil as their second language in school and instead, they opt for Hindi,

 Sanskrit, French, German, etc. Consequently, children are not able to have

 any basic knowledge in their mother tongue. It is not only the position in

 Tamil Nadu, similar situation exists in other States wherein the language of

 States are not learnt by younger generation. Any child is entitled to study

 and learn through his/her mother tongue and it is the duty of every State to

 see that the children of the State are given knowledge in their mother

 tongue, as otherwise, other than English and a few other preferred

 languages, all other languages would become extinct and vanish from

 usage. 3. Every language is considered to be God's language or People's

 language. Unless the children are made to study through their respective

 mother tongue, the languages cannot survive and cannot be passed onto

 future generations. That is the reason, why UNESCO is celebrating 7/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 "International Mother Language Day" on 21st February to promote

 cultural diversity and to promote multilingualism. Mother Language Day is

 part of larger attempt to promote the preservation and protection of all

 languages used by people of the World. One can prefer to study in English

 or in any other language, but the child should also be made to learn its

 mother tongue whether it is Telugu, Tamil, Gujarathi or Bengali. The best

 way to preserve or make alive the languages is to make study of mother

 tongue compulsory for every child, at least as a second language.

 Otherwise, many languages will disappear. The day is not far away when

 Tamil will not be in use and Tamilians themselves will forget their

 language. 4. Taking note of the lack of interest on the part of parents to

 admit their children in Tamil medium schools, the Government of Tamil

 Nadu brought an Act called "TAMIL NADU APPOINTMENT ON

 PREFERENTIAL BASIS IN THE SERVICES UNDER THE STATE

 OF PERSONS STUDIED IN TAMIL MEDIUM (PSTM IN SHORT)

 ACT, 2010". The statement of objects and reasons states that in order to

 facilitate a conducive environment for the populace to prefer Tamil Medium 8/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 of instruction at all levels of education and also to overcome the disability

 created due to studying in Tamil Medium when compared to those who are

 studying in English Medium who would have better employment scope in

 Central Government, other State Governments, Private Sectors and abroad,

 the Act was brought into force. To put it in other words, the Act has been

 passed by the Legislature of Tamil Nadu to encourage people to admit their

 children in Tamil Medium giving the benefit of 20% reservation by way of

 preference in employment. The Act was passed as Act 40 of 2010. Many

 recruitments have been made and the benefit of 20% reservation is being

 given from 2010 onwards to persons, who studied in Tamil Medium. The

 present case is one in which the petitioner has challenged the notification

 No. 1/2020 dated 20.01.2020 pertaining to Combined Civil Services

 Examination, Group I Service, issued by the 3rd respondent and to direct the

 3rd respondent to allow only the candidates, who completed their entire

 education, namely, X standard, XII Standard, Graduation in Tamil Medium

 to avail PSTM quota and direct the Chief Secretary/1st respondent to frame

 appropriate rules for PSTM quota and prohibit respondents 4 to 13 from

 issuing PSTM certificate to Distant Education Courses. 9/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 5. The petitioner had his entire schooling in Tamil Medium upto

 Plus Two. He completed B.Com, then M.Com in Tamil Medium and

 thereafter, completed his Law Degree through Tamil Medium. The

 petitioner applied for TNPSC Group I Services pursuant to 3rd respondent's

 notification dated 20.01.2020 calling for applications for CCS I examination

 (Group I services) for vacancy of 69 posts. The grievance of the petitioner

 is that the candidates who had not done their schooling in Tamil Medium

 are getting benefited by 20% quota under PSTM Act by obtaining only the

 higher degree prescribed for the post in Tamil Medium. Excepting the

 Higher Degree prescribed as qualification for the post, most of them studied

 in English Medium and only to get the benefit under PSTM quota, they

 acquire the prescribed qualification in Tamil Medium superficially through

 distance education. According to him, persons who are entitled to

 reservation are only those who have studied in Tamil Medium right from

 I standard to Plus Two and thereafter, the other degrees. To put it in a

 nutshell, candidates should have studied throughout in Tamil Medium right

 from schooling till acquiring the prescribed higher qualification. The very

 object of the Act is being frustrated by the respondents by adopting a

 fraudulent method of giving reservation to those who have studied higher 10/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 qualification prescribed for the post alone in Tamil Medium ignoring the

 fact that they studied throughout in English Medium. 6. Mr.Sakthi Rao, the petitioner, who appears as party in person,

 would point out that certificates are issued by various Universities to the

 candidates who have undergone degree courses through distance education.

 There is no proof that those candidates had undergone the said course in

 Tamil Medium and mostly, it is only through distance education. He would

 point out that there was a big scam in Madurai Kamaraj University as well

 as Annamalai University in issue of fake certificates, including PSTM

 certificates to candidates. Many candidates making use of fake certificates

 got recruited availing 20% reservation under PSTM quota. According to

 him, undergoing entire education in English Medium excepting the Degree

 in Tamil Medium would amount to fraud to avail 20% reservation under

 PSTM quota. Therefore, he would submit that a direction has to be given to

 the 3rd respondent to allow only those candidates who completed their entire

 education right from schooling upto the required qualification in Tamil

 Medium to avail PSTM quota. 11/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 7. Mr.K.Chellapandian, learned Additional Advocate General for

 R1 & R2 would submit that the Act has been brought in to benefit those

 who have studied in Tamil Medium. Since there was some confusion and

 discrepancy with regard to the definition of Section 2(d), which defines

 "Persons studied in Tamil Medium", an amendment has been brought in by

 the Government to Section 2(d) of the Act and the same has been

 substituted with a new definition. The learned Additional Advocate General

 would refer to the amended definition under Section 2(d) which reads as

 follows: Mr.K.Chellapandian would submit that only to those persons, who

 studied in Tamil Medium, the benefits would be given. 8. Mr.K.K.Senthil, learned counsel appearing for TNPSC would

 submit that the 3rd respondent issued notification dated 20.01.2020 in order

 to fill up 69 vacancies. Though preliminary examination was originally

 scheduled to be held on 05.04.2020, later on, it was postponed to December, 12/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 2020. The 3rd respondent issued the notification for recruitment to select

 candidates based on the Rules governing the posts and Tamil Nadu

 Government Servants (Conditions of Service) Act 2016 (Act 14 of 2016)

 and the Government Orders in force. He would rely upon the definition

 under Section 2(d) of PSTM Act and submit that "Persons studied in Tamil

 Medium" means "Persons who have obtained the educational qualification

 or qualifications prescribed for direct recruitment in the Rules and

 Regulations or orders applicable to any appointment in the services under

 the State through Tamil medium of instruction." According to him, persons

 who studied the prescribed qualification in Tamil Medium are eligible to

 avail the reservation under the PSTM quota irrespective of the system of

 study namely, regular or distance mode. The Tamil Nadu Public Service

 Commission is considering the candidates who pursue the prescribed

 educational qualification in Tamil Medium as beneficiaries under the PSTM

 category. 9. The Commission would submit that though the Commission

 wrote to the Government for clarification regarding the preference

 pertaining to persons studied in Tamil Medium, the Government failed to 13/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 clarify it. Mr.K.K.Senthil, learned counsel appearing for TNPSC would rely

 upon the Full Bench judgment of this Court dated 27.09.2019 in W.P. No.

 27127 of 2018 rendered in R. Boominathan V. The Government of Tamil

 Nadu in which it was held that to avail the benefit of preferential selection

 under PSTM Act, one should possess the certificate issued by the Institution

 in the prescribed format stating that he/she studied in Tamil as Medium of

 Instruction to get the benefit under the PSTM Act. A learned Single Judge

 of this Court in W.P.(MD) No. 17802 of 2013 in P. Mariammal V. State of

 Tamil Nadu and another , by order dated 27.11.2013, held that if the

 prescribed qualification for the post is PG Degree and B.Ed course, it is

 enough if the candidate studied the PG and B.Ed Course in Tamil Medium

 and the Medium of Instruction at UG level is immaterial. The said

 judgment was confirmed by a Division Bench of this Court in W.A (MD)

 No. 186/2014 by judgment dated 23.04.2014 holding that to get preferential

 treatment, a person should have obtained educational qualification

 prescribed for direct recruitment to a particular post in Tamil Medium.

 Moreover, the Government issued a letter bearing No. 99/S/2011-1 dated

 11.01.2011 giving guidelines to be followed in the recruitment process and

 the same is being followed by the Service Commission and therefore, there 14/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 cannot be any infirmity in the procedure giving the benefit of reservation

 under PSTM quota and the Commission would comply with any other order

 or Rule being framed by the Government. 10. Mr.Isaac Mohanlal, learned Senior Counsel appearing for

 respondents 4, 5, 9 and 12 Universities would submit that Universities are

 issuing certificates based on the study of the candidates whether regular

 stream or distance education. There cannot be any discrimination between

 degrees obtained by regular stream or distance education as per the UGC

 notification. The Universities are following the guidelines only. Further, he

 would submit that there is an investigation being conducted by the

 Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption, Madurai with regard to fake

 certificates issued by Madurai Kamaraj University. The University has

 appointed a High Level Committee to conduct an enquiry in this regard. He

 would submit that there is a chance for persons who got fake certificates

 sneaking into the service by getting the benefit under PSTM quota. Learned

 Senior Counsel would further submit that the very purpose of the Act is to

 encourage children to study in Tamil Medium telling them that there is 20%

 reservation in employment. Moreover, the employment opportunities are 15/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 restricted to the State of Tamil Nadu and they cannot get the benefit under

 the said quota anywhere outside the State or in the country, due to language

 issue. Therefore, the Government rightly passed the Act to benefit the

 candidates, who studied in Tamil Medium. The interpretation of unamended Section 2(d) of the Act that persons who have obtained educational

 qualification prescribed for direct recruitment means those who have got the

 said qualification alone in Tamil Medium which goes against the very

 object of the Act. The candidates should have undergone their entire

 education in Tamil Medium and that is the correct interpretation.

 A statement in the notification itself makes it clear that the entire education

 of the candidates should have been in Tamil Medium. 11. Note (i) in Pg. No. 8 of the notification was referred to state

 that the qualification for the post should have been obtained by passing the

 required qualification in the order of studies namely, X standard, HSC, UG

 degree from the recognised institutions as required under Section 25 of

 Tamil Nadu Government Servants (Conditions of Service) Act, 2016.

 Clause 12(B) occurring at Page No.15 of the notification has been referred

 to state that writing University examinations or competitive examinations in 16/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 Tamil Language alone will not qualify the candidates to claim the benefit

 under PSTM Act. By relying upon this clause, Mr.Isaac Mohanlal, learned

 Senior Counsel appearing for respondents 4, 5, 9 and 12 would submit that

 the entire education should have been undergone by the candidates only in

 Tamil Medium, then only, the candidate concerned could be given the

 benefit under PSTM act and if any other interpretation for "persons who

 studied in Tamil Medium" is given, it would defeat the very purpose of the

 Act. 12. Heard the parties and perused the records. 13. It is not only the State Government but also the Central

 Government which understood the importance of imparting education in

 mother tongue to every citizen. That is the reason why in the recent

 "National Education Policy", more thrust has been given for education

 through mother tongue. When people, for various reasons, ignore or avoid

 learning in their respective mother tongue, the chain of taking the languages

 to the future generations is snapped as the respective mother tongue could

 not be passed-on to the next generation. Unless people on their own or 17/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 otherwise, compulsorily, by the Government, made to study their respective

 mother tongue or the VIII Schedule languages of India by the respective

 States, in due course of time, the languages would die naturally in the

 absence of any human medium to pass it to the next generation. The world

 has become a global village and English has become the most popular

 language; It is being considered as a language of Science and Technology,

 advancing employment opportunities and the monopoly of English language

 will definitely destroy the native languages. No doubt, English is one of the

 binding forces of our national integration. However, too much of

 importance to English language or a few selected languages may not be in

 the interest of the native languages of the people or the Nation. 14. The details extracted below would demonstrate as to how the

 number of children studying in Tamil Medium in Tamil Nadu is

 dangerously decreasing whereas there is a sharp increase in the number of

 children studying in English Medium. 18/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 S.No Management No. of Students ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ In view of the above dangerous situation and to safeguard Tamil language

 and to make the children study in Tamil Medium, the State Government

 rightly brought in the Act 40 of 2020 giving the benefit of 20% reservation

 in appointments to the candidates who studied in Tamil Medium. The

 benefit given is a kind of incentive to those who are studying in Tamil

 Medium and also, in order to remove the disability suffered by them by

 studying in Tamil Medium as they may not have any chance of getting

 employment in the Central Government as well as other States, other

 countries, private sectors, as that of candidates studying in English Medium.

 This disability is sought to be removed by making 20% reservation by

 giving preference to the candidates, who studied in Tamil Medium. 19/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 15. A perusal of the Act comprehensively would reveal that the Act

 has been brought to make people study in Tamil Medium in all levels of

 education as evident from the statement of objects and reasons. The

 relevant portions are extracted as follows: The Act namely, "Tamil Nadu Appointment on Preferential Basis

 in the Services under the State of Persons Studied in Tamil Medium

 (PSTM in short) Act, 2010" came into force on 07.09.2010. Section 2(d) speaks about persons, who studied in Tamil Medium, which is extracted as

 follows: 20/59 16. A close scrutiny of the reasons and objects of the Act would

 reveal that it is only to create a conducive environment for the populace to

 prefer Tamil Medium of instruction at all levels of education. The terms

 employed "at all levels of education" mean right from schooling upto the

 prescribed qualification for the appointment whether it is SSLC or HSC,

 Diploma/Degree or Post Graduate Degree. Further it is stated "to pursue 21/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 school and college career through Tamil Medium". Therefore, it can be

 safely concluded that the object of the Act is only to make children to study

 through Tamil Medium at all levels of education viz., entire school and

 college education and to avail the benefits under 20% reservation under

 PSTM. 17. It is the petitioner's contention that to avail the preferential

 treatment of 20% reservation under PSTM Act, one should have undergone

 Tamil Medium study right from schooling upto the prescribed qualification

 for the post. He would submit that for Group I service, the desirable

 educational qualification is a Degree. According to him, it means that any

 candidate who wishes to avail the benefit of 20% under PSTM Act should

 have undergone study in Tamil Medium right from I standard to the

 prescribed degree qualification and that is the intention of the legislature. 18. The contention of the petitioner has to be accepted. The object

 of the Act is to encourage people to study through Tamil Medium by giving

 a benefit by means of the provision of 20% reservation. Obtaining the

 educational qualification prescribed for the post through Tamil Medium of 22/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 instruction means that one should have studied the entire schooling as well

 as the Degree or other prescribed qualification only through Tamil Medium.

 Getting a degree is linked to school studies. Without school studies, one

 cannot acquire prescribed qualification. If the term "persons studied in

 Tamil medium" is interpreted as persons who got prescribed qualification

 alone in Tamil medium, such interpretation would frustrate the very object

 of the Act. One cannot, without basic study, join the course for acquiring

 the prescribed qualification for the post. 19. Further it is appropriate to look into Section 25 of Tamil Nadu

 Government Servants (Conditions of Service) Act, 2016, which is extracted

 as follows: From the above, it is clear that a degree qualification must have been

 obtained after passing SSLC and HSC course for public appointments. The

 degree course is linked with basic qualifications of SSLC and HSC. As

 such, when a degree is prescribed as qualification for an appointment, it is

 not only the degree, but also includes completing SSLC and HSC courses.

 Obtaining of Degree or prescribed qualification is linked to basic

 qualifications of SSLC and HSC. Without qualifying in SSLC and HSC, it

 is impossible for any person to join degree course or get a degree or cannot

 join a PG course. Therefore, "Persons studied in Tamil Medium" as defined

 in Section 2(d) of the Act means persons who obtained educational

 qualification or qualifications prescribed would necessarily mean persons

 who have studied their entire education in Tamil medium. It is not mere

 acquiring the prescribed educational qualification alone in Tamil medium,

 but also should necessarily include study upto SSLC and HSC in Tamil

 medium. This purposive interpretation of term "Persons studied in Tamil

 medium" alone would achieve the object of the Act. Any mechanical and 24/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 literal interpretation of the above term that acquiring prescribed

 qualification alone in Tamil medium would destroy the very object of the

 Act, viz., encouraging people to undertake study in Tamil medium. Literal

 interpretation of the definition of the Act would make the object of the Act

 futile. Therefore, what is sought to be done through the Act has to be culled

 out from the very Act itself and the purposive interpretation alone would

 achieve the object of the Act. The Hon'ble Apex Court explained about the purposive interpretation

 which would achieve the object of the legislation in the following

 judgments: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 section (1) contains a table for taxation. There is no provision for taxation in
 respect of a building having annual letting value less than rupees eighteen
 hundred. Clause (b) of sub-section (2) expressly exempts buildings and lands,
 the annual letting value of which does not exceed eighteen hundred rupees.
 The proviso permits adding up of annual letting value of all such buildings or
 lands owned by a single individual in the Municipality. The proviso no doubt
 states that the annual letting value aggregated shall be deemed to be "for the
 purpose of this clause" meaning thereby for the purpose of clause (b), that is
 for exemption. But the purpose of the proviso is to deny exemption to
 buildings or lands owned by the same person and of which the total annual
 letting value exceeds hundred rupees eighteen hundred."

 V. In the decision reported in AIR 1993 SC 252, M/s.Cochin Shipping Co. V. E.S.I. Corporation , it has been observed as follows: 20. Again, in M/s.International Ore & Fertilizers (India) Pvt. Ltd, v. Employees
 State Insurance Corporation , (1987) 4 SCC 203 at 206:(AIR 1988 SC 79 at pp.
 81-82) the following useful observations are found: VI. In the decision reported in JT 2001 (6) SC 183, District Mining

 Officer v. Tata Iron & Steel Co. , it has been observed as follows: 20. As stated above, it is only to encourage the people to undergo

 education "at all levels in Tamil Medium" which means the entire schooling

 as well as college education. Interpreting "prescribed qualification in Tamil

 Medium" as obtaining the prescribed qualification alone in Tamil Medium

 would be an interpretation in isolation and it is not intended by the Act. 30/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 Therefore, this Court holds that the prescribed qualification in Tamil

 Medium means and it includes undergoing study right from class one to

 SSLC and HSC courses also in Tamil Medium. 21. From the above, it is crystal clear that Tamil Medium of

 instruction has been preferred at all levels of education, only in order to

 facilitate a conducive atmosphere and nowhere it has been mentioned that it

 would suffice at the time of acquiring the prescribed qualification.

 Therefore, any interpretation that concludes the prescribed qualification

 alone in Tamil Medium would lead to absurdity which the legislature never

 intended. Such interpretation would go against the very object of the Act, as

 stated supra. Therefore the view expressed by the learned single Judge in P.Mariammal Vs. State of Tamil Nadu and another in W.P.(MD).No.

 17802 of 2013 dated 27.11.2013 as confirmed in W.A.(MD).No.186 of

 2014 dated 23.04.2014 is against the intention of the legislature.

 Legislature policy is to make the population to study in Tamil medium at all

 levels of education as evident from the object of the Act. The object of the 31/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 Act is not to make the people to undertake study of degree or prescribed

 qualification alone in Tamil medium. 22. Mr.K.K. Senthil, learned counsel appearing for the Commission

 relied upon the order dated 20.12.2019 of the Single Judge of this Court in

 W.P. No. 35055/2019 in which the learned Single Judge rejected the

 challenge made to the results published in Group I recruitment and to revise

 the selection process by applying Section 2(d) of PSTM Act for the entire

 qualifications prescribed. 23. The learned Single Judge opined that there is absolutely no

 insistence in the entire Act that the candidate should have gone through the

 entire education right from the beginning only in Tamil Medium. It will be

 normally found that only those persons, who have undergone their

 education in Tamil Medium in School would only prefer to do Under

 Graduation or Post Graduation in Tamil Medium and it would be an arduous

 task to undergo UG or PG course directly in Tamil Medium without having

 basic exposure in those subjects through Tamil Medium while studying in 32/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 10th or 12th standards. However, what has been stated by the learned Single

 Judge is to be accepted in normal circumstances. However it is found to be

 otherwise as evident from the details provided by the Tamil Nadu Public

 Service Commission which is extracted infra. The long gap between year of HSC study and completion of degree would

 only prove that they purposely acquired the degree in Tamil medium to

 undeservingly get the PSTM reservation. Thus, it is evident that some

 persons completed degree or post graduation or professional qualification in

 English medium and thereafter, studied the prescribed qualification alone in

 Tamil and artificially complied with the provision of the Act. 33/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 24. This Court, taking into consideration of the complaint of the

 petitioner that for Group I Service for block years 2016-2019, 34 candidates

 got appointment under PSTM quota and out of those candidates, 28

 candidates had obtained Degree in Tamil Medium through distance

 education after completing their schooling in English Medium, by order

 dated 27.11.2020, raised the following queries: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 In compliance with the said order, the Service Commission filed an

 affidavit dated 3rd December, 2020, in which in paragraph No.5, it has been

 categorically admitted that out of 34 PSTM candidates selected for Group I

 recruitment, 27 candidates have passed their degrees through distance

 education after completing their entire education in English medium.

 Therefore, the view expressed by the learned Single Judge would not reflect

 the reality. What has been stated by the learned single Judge is the normal

 way of acquiring degree. However, persons who are bent upon to get the

 benefit by artificially complying with the conditions prescribed under the

 Act, obtained degree alone in Tamil Medium, that too, distance education,

 after completing their entire course in different subjects in English Medium.

 Therefore, the above said example would show as to how by literal

 interpretation, the very purpose and object of the Act has been frustrated

 and all benefits are being knocked away by ineligible persons, namely,

 persons who have studied in other mediums, especially in English medium.

 The said fact could be further fortified by the following details: 35/59 25. From the above details, it is evident that out of 22 selected

 candidates, only 4 candidates acquired degree in regular study and majority

 of the selected candidates viz., 18 got their degrees through distance

 education. It is not to demean the "distance education" but to exhibit the

 fact that Tamil medium degrees have been obtained to get PSTM benefit,

 malafidely. Further candidates in item No.4, 6, 10, 13, 18, 19 completed

 their HSC in the years 2007, 2001, 2006, 2009, 2011, 2002, respectively,

 whereas, they completed their degree long after in the years 2018, 2018,

 2018, 2017, 2018, 2017 respectively. 26. This kind of obtaining the prescribed qualification alone in

 Tamil Medium without undergoing the schooling in Tamil Medium is not

 the intention of the Act. These candidates superficially fulfill the conditions

 and illegally obtain the benefits, which is really intended only to the

 deserving students who have completed their entire studies in Tamil

 Medium right from schooling to degree or prescribed qualification. The Act is not intended to recongnise acquiring the prescribed qualification alone in

 Tamil Medium. The Act is only to educate the children through Tamil

 Medium right from schooling to the higher level to see that Tamil language 37/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 is preserved by making people to study in Tamil. Undergoing school

 education in English Medium and other Mediums and thereafter, obtaining

 the degree alone only for the purpose of technical compliance is nothing but

 fraud on the Act. It is not only fraud on the Act, but on the language itself. 27. The Service Commission stated that about 85 candidates got

 selected under the PSTM reservation in Group I Service from 2012 to 2019.

 It is not known out of the above candidates, how many persons really

 studied through Tamil Medium right from I standard till the prescribed

 qualification. It is curious to note that the Service Commission considered

 the candidates, who studied the prescribed qualification namely Under

 Graduation in Tamil Medium for PSTM reservation, based on their claim in

 the online application for the post included in the Combined Civil Services I

 Examination. The stand of the Service Commission that based on the

 information given by the candidates, without verification, PSTM reservation

 benefit is being given has to be deprecated. The procedure followed would

 frustrate the object of the Act and people would defraud by

 giving false and wrong information for the purpose of getting the benefits.

 Without verification, if recruitment is done, it would mean that deserving 38/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 candidates are not getting the benefits and undeserving candidates are

 knocking away the chances which are not meant for them. 28. In paragraph No.9 of the counter affidavit dated 16.11.2020, it

 is stated that the Commission has only checked whether Under Graduate

 Degrees secured by the candidates are obtained from UGC approved

 Universities and if a candidate claims that his/her Medium of Instruction

 for the basic qualification is Tamil, the Commission would ask for PSTM

 certificate for the degree from the College/University where the candidate

 studied the degree course. Here also, as stated by the petitioner as well as

 conceded by Mr.Isaac Mohanlal, learned Senior Counsel appearing for

 Madurai Kamaraj University, regarding issuance of fake degrees and fake

 certificates by Madurai Kamaraj University, investigation has already been

 directed in this regard. There is a chance of those candidates getting into

 Group I Service by making use of fake PSTM certificate or fake degree

 from Madurai Kamaraj University as well as from other Universities. 29. From the above, it is seen that the Tamil Nadu Public Service

 Commission has not properly verified the study details of candidates 39/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 including Medium of Instructions from school level onwards. Therefore,

 hereafterwards, at least, the Service Commission should be vigilant and

 shall verify all the details of study of candidates to give the benefit under

 the PSTM Act. 30. In fact, insofar as Madurai Kamaraj University is concerned,

 several complaints have been raised with regard to the malpractices in the

 conduct of examinations, collection of fees, missing of answer sheets, apart

 from the issuance of fake certificates, etc. In this regard, based on an

 confidential letter in VR.No.1216/2019/EDU/MU, dated 19.06.2019, of the

 Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, Chennai, seeking prior

 approval to conduct a preliminary enquiry as per Section 17(A)(1) of the

 Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018, a Syndicate meeting was

 conducted, wherein, it was resolved to grant the prior approval. 31. A High Level Committee, headed by a retired Judge of this

 Court, has also been constituted by the Vice Chancellor of the Madurai

 Kamaraj University to probe into the allegations of misconduct in the

 examinations. This Committee has submitted its preliminary report on 40/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 06.09.2019, stating that a prima facie case of misconduct, misuse of official

 power, dereliction of duty with questionable integrity has been made out as

 against the delinquent officials. It is represented that in view of the

 preliminary report of the Committee, coupled with the approval granted to

 the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption to conduct a preliminary

 enquiry, the Syndicate of the University has resolved to place the delinquent

 officials under suspension, restraining them from interfering with the

 process of enquiry. Therefore, the investigation being conducted by DVAC

 has to be made thoroughly and the culprits should be brought to book. 32. As rightly pointed out by the petitioner, if any candidate has

 undergone study in Tamil Medium in College Level, definitely, the

 candidate would have obtained scholarship from the Government for having

 studied in Tamil Medium. The said certificate issued by the institution,

 namely, Tamil Medium Certificate should be obtained as proof for having

 undergone study in Tamil Medium. 33. Mr. Isaac Mohanlal, learned Senior Counsel pointed out that in

 the notification regarding recruitment to the vacancies for the posts included 41/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 in Combined Civil Services-I Examination (Group I Services) dated

 20.01.2020, there is a note in page No.8, which is as follows: The above note would make it abundantly clear that the qualification

 prescribed for the post should have been obtained after having required

 qualification in Tamil Medium namely, X standard + HSC or its equivalent

 + UG degree from a recognised institution. Therefore, it is farfetched to

 contend that obtaining prescribed qualification, namely, degree alone in

 Tamil Medium is in compliance with the Act. In view of the above, the

 impugned notification challenged before this Court is sustained and there

 will be a further direction to the 3rd respondent to allow only candidates

 those who completed their entire education or from their schooling upto the

 desired degree or to the prescribed qualification in Tamil Medium to avail

 the PSTM quota. It is made clear that those who have superficially or

 artificially tried to comply with the provisions of the Act, by merely getting 42/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 the prescribed qualification alone in Tamil Medium are not entitled to the

 benefit and the procedure followed by the respondents is deprecated as it is

 against the very provisions of the Act. 34. Taking note of the above shortcomings in the recruitment, by

 the Commission's liberal and literal interpretation, many candidates got

 selected under PSTM quota illegally and fraudulently, thus denying and

 depriving those candidates who really studied in Tamil Medium right from

 schooling upto the prescribed qualification as per the letter and spirit of the

 Act. The Government of Tamil Nadu brought an amendment in 2020 by

 Act No. 35 of 2020 by substituting clause (d) in Section 2 of Tamil Nadu

 Appointment on Preferential basis in Services under the State of persons

 studied in Tamil Medium Act, 2010. The amendment bill was passed in the

 Legislative Assembly in the State of Tamil Nadu as early as on 16.03.2020

 and was sent to the appropriate Constitutional Authority for assent to make

 it as an Act, but no assent was given by the said Authority. Therefore, this

 Court, suo motu, impleaded the Secretary to His Excellency, the Governor

 of Tamil Nadu, Raj Bhavan, Chennai – 600 022 as 15th respondent and

 questioned as to when the assent would be given. The bill was pending for 43/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 more than eight months for a decision regarding assent. Paragraph 3 of the

 order dated 04.12.2020 reads as follows: Only after this Court questioned on 04.12.2020 to the Constitutional

 Authority as to when a decision would be taken regarding amendment bill,

 the Constitutional Authority gave assent immediately thereafter on

 07.12.2020 for the bill to be made as an Act. Thus, Act 35 of 2020 came

 into force. Clause (d) of Section 2 has been substituted as follows: Explanation - For the purpose of this clause, (i) in cases, where SSLC is prescribed as the educational qualification, 44/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 one shall have studied upto SSLC through Tamil medium of instruction; (ii) in cases, where a Higher Secondary Course is prescribed as the
 eucational qualification, one shall have studied SSLC and the Higher
 Secondary Course through Tamil medium of instruction; (iii) in cases, where a diploma is prescribed as the educational
 qualification, one shall have studied SSLC and the diploma through Tamil
 medium of instruction or if the diploma is obtained after completion of
 Higher Secondary Course then one shall have studied SSLC, Higher
 Secondary Course and the diploma through Tamil medium of instruction; (iv) in cases, where a degree is prescribed as the educational
 qualification, one shall have studied SSLC, Higher Secondary Course and
 the degree through Tamil medium of instruction; (v) in cases, where a post-graduate degree is prescribed as the
 educational qualification, one shall have studied SSLC, Higher Secondary
 Course, degree and the post-graduate degree through Tamil medium of
 instruction" https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 Under the present recruitment, benefits under the Act have to be given to

 the candidates, who studied right from school in Tamil Medium upto the

 required qualification viz., 1st standard to 10th standard, HSC, Degree or

 Diploma or Post Graduation Degree in Tamil medium. 37. The investigation conducted by the Vigilance and Anti

 Corruption Department with regard to issuance of fake certificates by

 Madurai Kamaraj University shall be done thoroughly and concluded at the

 earliest. There shall be a direction to R16 & R17 viz., The Director of

 Vigilance & Anti Corruption and The Deputy Superintendent of Police,

 Vigilance & Anti Corruption, to continue with the investigation with regard

 to the issuance of fake PSTM certificates by Madurai Kamaraj University

 and shall expand the scope of investigation by finding out any similar

 offence is committed in any other Universities in the State of Tamil Nadu. 38. From the materials placed on record this Court holds that

 "(i) The Act is intended to encourage the children to study in

 Tamil Medium; (ii) To remove the disability sustained by the Tamil medium 47/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 students due to education in Tamil medium viz., inability to get

 employment in Central Government as well as in other State

 Services, Private Sectors, the reservation has been provided; (iii) The reservation of 20% is meant for those students who

 studied their entire education upto the requisite qualification in

 Tamil Medium viz., study in Tamil medium from 1st standard to

 SSLC, HSC, Degree or Diploma or Post Graduation Degree; (iv) People are encouraged by the reservation to prefer Tamil as

 Medium of Instruction at all levels of education; (v) Preference of 20% reservation is sought to be given for

 Tamil Medium students under PSTM Act when equally qualified

 persons, who studied in a different medium of instruction other

 than Tamil are available. For the rest of 80%, it is open to all the

 persons who studied in different languages; (vi) Setting apart 20% for preferential treatment to those who

 studied in Tamil Medium is reasonable as those persons cannot be

 compared or equalised to those who have studied in other

 Mediums of Instruction, especially, English Medium, who can get

 more opportunities in other employment; 48/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 (vii) The opportunities available for those who have studied in

 Tamil Medium is confined only to the State of Tamil Nadu; (viii) As the opportunity to get employment to those who studied

 in Tamil Medium is confined to the State and lack of employment

 opportunities in other States, Central Government Service, Private

 Sectors, is a disability suffered by them and those persons, who

 studied in Tamil Medium constitute a separate classification

 different from those who have studied in English Medium, who

 have more opportunities everywhere including the State of Tamil

 Nadu, the classification made by the Government is reasonable

 and based on a rational complying with Article 14 of the

 Constitution of India to achieve the object of removing the

 disability being suffered by persons studied in Tamil Medium by

 giving 20% reservation; (ix) The entire Act including the amendment Act 2020 is

 constitutionally valid; (x) It is a step to preserve and take forward Tamil language to the

 future generations" 49/59 39. The Constitution itself envisages the development of all

 languages in the country. Article 345 speaks about official language or

 languages of State and their use for the official purpose of the State. Article

 345 reads as follows: When people get educated in respective language of the State, there may be

 a possibility of compliance of Article 345. 40. Article 350 A of the Constitution has been introduced by 7th

 amendment Act 1956 for the purpose of giving facilities for instruction in

 mother tongue of every State. Article 350A is usefully extracted as follows: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 When the Constitution itself recognised the importance of mother tongue

 and the National Educational Policy of the country also gives importance to

 education in mother tongue of every citizen, so rightly the Tamil Nadu

 Government enacted the "Tamil Nadu Appointment on preferential basis in

 the Services under the State of Persons studied in Tamil Medium (PSTM in

 short) Act", so that people would be encouraged to undergo education in

 Tamil medium. It is the constitutional mandate to have education in Tamil

 medium and this Act has been passed only with an intention to benefit the

 students, who undergo education in Tamil medium . 41. Relevant portions of the National Educational Policy 2020, are

 extracted as follows: Giving preference to those who have studied in Tamil Medium in

 Employment would not amount to arbitrary action or termed as 53/59 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.(MD) No. 8025 of 2020 unreasonable. The legislative policy of the State is based on a reasonable

 classification trying to achieve the object of removing the disability of

 persons who studied in Tamil Medium. Therefore, the Act, as a whole,

 which has got the object to benefit the persons, who are being disabled by

 studying in Tamil Medium has to be upheld as it is based on rational and

 reasonable classification. In fact, all the States in the country should follow

 the example of Tamil Nadu by enacting similar Acts in their respective

 States so as to preserve the language of States, especially, VIII Schedule

 languages. 42. For the reasons stated above the impugned notification is held

 as valid and this Court accepts the contention of the Petitioner that only

 those who completed their entire education right from schooling viz., from

 first standard upto SSLC, HSC, prescribed qualification either Degree,

 Diploma or Post Graduation, in Tamil medium alone are entitled to avail the

 benefit of 20% reservation quota. Therefore, the Writ Petition is allowed

 partly with the following directions: 43. With the above directions and observations, the Writ Petition

 stands partly allowed. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petitions are

 closed. No costs.