1. List revised. 2. Heard Sri Shailesh Kumar Upadhyay, Advocate holding brief of Sri Amit Kumar Rajput, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Sandeep Kumar Jaiswal, learned counsel for the first informant and Sri Ajay Singh, learned AGA-I for the State and perused the material on record. 3. Office to trace out the vakalatnama filed on behalf of the first informant and place it on record and make a note in the order sheet about it. 4. This bail application under Section 483 BNSS has been filed by the applicant Ajeet @ Mantu Chauhan, seeking enlargement on bail during trial in connection with Case Crime No. 260 of 2025, under Sections 74, 351(3), 65(1) BNS and 51/6 of POCSO Act , registered at P.S. Gulariha, District Gorakhpur. 5. The FIR of the matter was lodged on 01.04.2025 by Neelam Devi against the applicant and two other persons alleging therein that her daughter is studying in class 11th. The applicant threatened her and while blackmailing gave her a mobile and he talked to her. On 28.10.2024 he lured her and took her to meet his parents but took her in a jungle and committed rape upon her. He then used to blackmail her and call her on the pretext of a video being recorded by him and making it viral. He then told her to keep silent and he would marry her. He continued establishing physical relationship with her. 6. Learned counsel for the applicant submitted that the applicant has been falsely implicated in the present case. It is submitted that the victim in her statements recorded during investigation although has stated of the applicant establishing physical relationship with him but the same is false and incorrect as she used to go with him out of her own sweet will and relationship was a consensual relationship. It is submitted that the applicant and the victim have decided to marry each other. It is submitted that the applicant and the victim have decided to marry each other and engagement ceremony have solemnized, para 17 and 19 of the affidavit has been placed before the Court. It is submitted that they shall be marrying when the victim will be major. It is submitted that the applicant has no criminal history as stated in para 20 of the affidavit and is in jail since 29.05.2025. 7. Learned counsel for the first informant submits that as per High School Certificate, the date of birth of the is 25.06.2009 and as such she is a minor. It is also submitted that the victim and her family members are ready for marriage with the applicant provided she becomes a major. 8. Learned counsel for the State opposed the prayer for bail but could not dispute the fact of learned counsel for the first informant. 9. After having heard learned counsels for the parties and perusing the records, it is evident that as per the High School Certificate, the victim is a minor girl. There are allegations against the applicant. Subsequent conduct and development in the matter is that the parties are interested in marriage with each other and even their family members are ready for it. Since the victim is a minor and thus at this stage the same cannot be looked into and considered. No ground for bail is made out. I do not find it a fit case for bail. 10. Considering the totality of the case in particular, nature of evidence available on record, I am not inclined to release the applicant on bail. 11. The bail application is, accordingly, rejected at this stage. 12. Pending application(s), if any, stand disposed of. Order Date :- 14.7.2025
 
M. ARIF
 
(Samit Gopal, J.)