BRIEF REASONS FOR THE DECISION OF THE CASE:- 02. Complete set of charge sheet and other documents were
supplied to the accused. After hearing arguments, charge for offence
punishable under section 411 IPC was framed against the accused on
07.04.2010 by the Ld. Predecessor, to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed trial. 03. During trial, accused did not appear before the court and
consequently, NBWs were issued against the accused. Vide order
dated 01.04.2011, considering the fact that accused was avoiding
appearance in the court, the then Ld. Predecessor of this court, issued
process u/s. 82 Cr.PC against the accused. After recording the
statement of the process server, he was declared proclaimed offender
vide order dated 25.06.2011. After the arrest of the accused,
supplementary charge sheet was filed. Accordingly, he stood charged
for committing offence u/s 174A IPC. Vide order dated 21.09.2015,
 Digitally
FIR No. 531/2009 State Vs. Kamal Page 2 of 14 signed by
 HIMANSHI
 HIMANSHI TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 04. The prosecution had cited total 04 witnesses in the
present matter in the main charge sheet. 05. The public witnesses cited by the prosecution were the
complainant herself and Madhu Kumar. The main witnesses of the
prosecution and the public witnesses namely complainant and Madhu
Kumar were summoned as a witness on several occasions. However,
these witnesses remained unserved despite several efforts.
Consequently, attempts were made to procure their presence through
IO as well as DCP concerned. However, all of these summons
remained unserved. Considering all the above and in view of the fact
that sufficient efforts had been made to procure the presence of these
witnesses complainant i.e. Bimal Kumar Jha and Madhu Kumar were
dropped from the list witnesses vide order dated 04.01.2016. There is
no other public witness cited by the prosecution and the remaining
witnesses cited were either police witnesses or formal witnesses. 06. In the supplementary charge sheet, the prosecution has
cited four witnesses. PW Ct. Jogender was dropped as a witness vide
order dated 25.02.2023 on account of his death. Further, on the request
of the Ld. APP, the concerned Ahlmad was also dropped as witness
 Digitally
 signed by
FIR No. 531/2009 State Vs. Kamal Page 3 of 14 HIMANSHI
 HIMANSHI TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 07. PW1 is HC Murlidhar is the IO of the main case of theft
and who deposed that on 16.10.2009, SHO concerned handed over the
complaint and directed to get the FIR registered, on which, he
endorsed the rukka Ex. PW1/A and got registered the FIR through
DO. He deposed that complainant reached in the PS and he alongwith
complainant went to the spot, which he prepared the site plan Ex.
PW2/B at the instance of complainant. He further deposed that he
examined the complainants Bimal Kumar and Madhu Kumar who told
that they had got the call details of one of the stolen mobile phone
using its IMEI number, through one of their known persons in
Chennai, out of which, they have ascertained that their stolen mobile
phone had been used to call upon two mobile number i.e. mobile
number 9711339706 and another number he did not remember. He
further deposed that the complainant had called upon the said number
and caller disclosed his name as Vinay and further disclosed that he
had purchased said mobile phone from one Kamal @ Langra in the
sum of Rs. 400/-, who resides in the area of Kalyanpuri Jhuggi, 17
Block, Delhi. He deposed that on 16.10.2009, they had gone to search
 Digitally
FIR No. 531/2009 State Vs. Kamal Page 4 of 14 signed by
 HIMANSHI
 HIMANSHI TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 08. Second witness examined as PW1 is ASI Rampal Singh,
the Duty Officer, who proved the registration of FIR Ex. PW1/A and
endorsement on rukka Ex. PW1/B. The witness was not cross-
examined by the defence Counsel despite opportunity. 09. Third witness examined as PW2 is ASI Kishan Pal Singh,
who deposed that on 19.09.2013, he alongwith HC Amar Singh and
HC Rambir had gone for the search of the proclaimed offender and at
about 7.40 a.m., when they reached near Seelampur red light, a secret
informer met them and gave the information regarding presence of PO
Kamal at his residence i.e. J-84, New Seelampur, Delhi. He further
deposed that thereafter, he made a call at the PS for sending more staff
and thereafter he alongwith HC Amar Singh, HC Rambir and secret
informer reached at the house of the accused Kamal. He deposed that
secret informer pointed out towards the accused and stated that he is
the accused Kamal and thereafter, secret informer left the said place.
He also deposed that he alongwith HC Amar Singh and HC Rambir
called accused Kamal outside his house, interrogated him, arrested
 Digitally
 signed by FIR No. 531/2009 State Vs. Kamal Page 6 of 14 HIMANSHI HIMANSHI
 TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 10. Fourth witness examined as PW3 is HC Amar Singh, who
deposed on the same lines as deposed by PW2 is ASI Kishan Pal
Singh. The witness was cross-examined by the defence Counsel. STATEMENT OF ACCUSED U/S 313 Cr.P.C : 11. After PE was closed, statement of the accused was
recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C wherein the accused pleaded
innocence and stated that he has been falsely implicated in this case.
Accused did not lead defence evidence despite opportunity. ARGUMENTS: 12. Final arguments heard from Ld. Substitute APP for the
State Ms. Preeti Mishra and Ld. LAC Ms. Kavita Singh of the
accused. During final arguments, The Ld. Substitute APP urged that
testimonies of the witnesses is reliable for conviction of the accused in
 Digitally
FIR No. 531/2009 State Vs. Kamal Page 7 of 14 signed by
 HIMANSHI HIMANSHI
 TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 13. At this stage it would be in the fitness of things to
examine the provisions of law relevant for the purposes of this case.
The accused has been indicted for the offences under section 411 IPC
and Section 174 A IPC. 14. The essential ingredients to prove the offence under Section 411 IPC are:- 15. It is a cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence that
prosecution has to prove its case beyond reasonable doubts by leading
reliable, cogent and convincing evidence. Further, it is a settled
proposition of criminal law that in order to successfully bring home
the guilt of the accused, prosecution is supposed to stand on its own
legs and it cannot derive any benefits whatsoever from the weakness,
if any, in the defence of the accused. Accused is entitled to the benefits
of every reasonable doubt in the prosecution story and any such doubt
in the prosecution case entitles the accused to acquittal. 16. It has been alleged that the stolen mobile phone of the
complainant was recovered from the possession of the accused at the
pointing out by a secret informer from the house of the accused.
However, no public person was joined as witness at the time of
apprehension of the accused or even at the time of recovery of the
case property. Admittedly, the place from where the mobile phone was
recovered was a residential area, and public persons were available.
Infact, PW1 admitted the availability of the public persons including
the wife of the accused. Despite this, no sincere efforts was made by
the IO to join the public person during recovery. 17. It is pertinent to note that it has been held in Roop
Chand v/s The State of Haryana,1999 (1) C.L.R 69 , by the
Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court that:- Digitally
 signed by
 HIMANSHI
 HIMANSHI TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 18. Similarly, in case of Pradeep Narayana V. State of
Maharashtra reported AIR 1995 Supreme Court 1930, it was held
that failure of police to join witness from locality during search
creates doubt about fairness of the investigation, benefit of which has
to go to the accused. Also it was held in the case of Kuldeep Singh
V. State of Haryana 2004(4) RCR 103 and Passi @ Prakash V.
State of Haryana 2001(1) RCR 435, that whenever any recovery in
connection with the place of the commission of offence is made,
 Digitally
 signed by
 HIMANSHI HIMANSHI
 TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 19. From the overall testimony of the witnesses, it is clear
that the IO has not joined any public witness at the time of arrest or
while completing the formalities despite availability of public persons.
Infact, not even an effort was made to join the public witnesses.
Admittedly even the wife of the accused was present at the house.
However, despite that no public person was made a witness by the IO.
All the witnesses examined are police witnesses. This casts a doubt
about the sincere efforts made by the IO to join independent
witnesses. 20. Further, the Section 100(4) Cr.P.C provided that "Before
making a search of the officer or other person about to make it shall
call upon the two or more independent and respectable inhabitants of
the locality in which the place to be searched is situated or any other
locality if no such inhabitant of the said locality is available or is
willing to be a witness of the search, to attend the witness the search
and may issued an order in writing to them or any of them so to do".
In the case at hand, this provision of law has not been complied with
by the IO. 21. Further, the prosecution could not examine the public
witnesses including the complainant and for this reason as well, the
 Digitally
 signed by
FIR No. 531/2009 State Vs. Kamal Page 11 of 14 HIMANSHI
 HIMANSHI TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 22. Hence, the court is of the view that story of the
prosecution qua possession of stolen mobile phone is doubtful and the
benefit of doubt certainly goes in favour of the accused. The
prosecution has failed to prove its case beyond all reasonable doubts
against the accused under Section 411 IPC. Hence, accused Kamal
stands acquitted under Section 411 IPC. 23. Moving on to the second allegation under section
174-A IPC against the accused, Section 174-A IPC reads as under: Digitally
 signed by 24. Section 174A IPC is divided into two parts. First part HIMANSHI
 HIMANSHI TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 25. In the present case, proclamation under section 82 Cr.
P.C. was issued against accused appear before the court of Sh Naveen
Gupta, Ld. MM East on 23.05.2011. As per the order dated
25.06.2011, the then Predecessor of the court has observed that
accused Kamal was absent despite execution of process u/s. 82 Cr.PC., recorded the statement of process server Ct. Sudhir Kumar
and has reached to the conclusion after going through the statement of
process server that accused Kamal is absconding from the process of
law and evading his appearance before the Court. Therefore, despite
due execution of the process under section 82 Cr.PC. as per the
procedure laid down in the section, accused Kamal failed to appear.
The prosecution has duly examined ASI Kishan Pal Singh as PW2 and
HC Amar Singh as PW3 regarding arrest of the accused after being
 Digitally
declared a proclaimed person. signed by
 HIMANSHI
 HIMANSHI TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: 26. Thus, in view of the above discussion, accused Kamal is
found guilty in the present case for the offence u/s 174 A IPC and and
resultantly, he stands convicted in the present case for offence u/s 174
A IPC. 27. Let the convict be heard separately on quantum of
sentence. 28. Ordered accordingly. 29. A copy of this judgment be given dasti to the convict free
of cost. Pronounced in open Court on 18.12.2023. The Judgement contains 14 pages and each page has been
signed by the undersigned. Digitally signed
 by HIMANSHI
 HIMANSHI TYAGI
 TYAGI Date: