FACTS IN BRIEF: Aggrieved of the same, the unsuccessful plaintiff in O-S. No. 202/85 on the file of Additional Subordinate Judge, Rajahmundry had initially preferred A.S. No. 145/97 on the file of District Judge, East Godavari, Rajahmundry and in view of the fact that the said appeal is out of a Common Judgment delivered in O.S. No. 202/85 and O.S. No. 108/86 the same was transferred to this Court and numbered as Tr. A.S. No. 2042/2004. Likewise, the unsuccessful defendants in O.S. No. 108/86 on the file of Additional Subordinate Judge, Rajahmundry had preferred A.S. No. 1490/97. It is needless to say that the 1st defendant in O.S. No. 108/86 is plaintiff in O.S. No. 202/85. Both the suits were clubbed and evidence was recorded in O.S. No. 202/85 and ultimately after recording findings, the reliefs as specified supra had been granted. PLEADINGS OF THE PARTIES: Issues settled in O.S. No. 108/86: Subsequent thereto, the following additional issues also were settled in O.S. No. 108/86: EVIDENCE LET IN BY BOTH THE PARTIES BEFORE THE TRIAL COURT: FINDINGS RECORDED BY THE TRIAL COURT IN NUTSHELL: SUBMISSIONS OF SRI N.V. SURYA-NARAYANA MURTHY: SUBMISSIONS OF SRI SURESH: The learned Counsel also placed reliance on several of the decisions in relation to the proof of Will and would submit that these principles may have to be applied even in the case of settlement deeds. The learned Counsel also would submit that the settlement deeds are definitely vitiated by undue influence and other factors which would vitiate the contract. Reliance also was placed on the decision referred (11) supra, Rani Purnima Debi and Anr. v. Kumar Khagendra Narayan Deb and Anr. , ; Ramchandra Rambux v. Champabai and Ors. , ; Gorantla Thataiah v. Thotakura Venkata Subbaiah and Ors. , ; M.L. Abdul Jabbar Sahib v. Venkata Sastri , ; Smt. Jaswant Kaur v. Amrit Kaur ; Indu Bala v. Manindra Chandra , ; Ram Piari v. Bhagwant , ; V.S. Mane v. R.V. Ganeshkar, ; Uma Devi Nambiar and Ors. v. T.C. Sidhan (died), ; Sridevi v. Jayaraja Shetty , 2005(2) ALT 24(SC); Mallipeddy Seshaiah (died) and Ors. v. Nadendla Tulasamma (died) and Ors., (D.B.); Meenakshiammal (dead) through L.Rs, and Ors. v. Chandrasekaran and Anr., ; Girja Datt Singh v. Gangoth Datt Singh , ; Karri Nookaraju v. Putra Venkatarao and Ors. , ; S. Rathnam Naidu v. Kanni Amma , ; Raghunath Prasad v. Sarju Prasad , AIR 1924 P.C. 60; Inche Noriah Binte Mohamed Tahir v. Shaik Allie bin Omar bin Abdullah Bahashuan, AIR 1929 P.C. 3; Kale and Ors. v. Deputy Director of Consolidation and Ors. , ; Muppudathi Pillai v. Krishnaswami Pillai and Ors. , AIR 1960 Mad. 1; Bandarupalli Mastanamma v. Adinarayana , and Afsar Shaikh v. Soleman Bibi , . 14. In the light of the rival contentions advanced by the Counsel representing the respective parties, though several Issues had been settled in both the suits by the trial Court, the following Points for consideration would arise in this Appeal: Point No. 1: 15. The most crucial aspect which made the daughters, heirs of Kollapu Veerayya, to land in this litigation is the settlement deeds said to have been executed by Kollapu Veerayya. Submissions at length were made relating to the validity of these documents. The main contention of learned Senior Counsel is that the ground of fraud had been pleaded and the said ground is as vague as vagueness can be and the particulars or details relating to this aspect had not been pleaded nor the same had been proved and hence in the light of the evidence available on record, the settlements had been proved in accordance with law and hence the relief of partition cannot be sustained. As already referred to supra, the wife of Kollapu Veerayya is no more, but however the wife along with the other three daughters filed O.S. No. 108/86 for cancellation of the settlement deeds. The specific stand taken by these parties, the defendants in O.S. No. 202/85 is that Kollapu Veerayya was not in a sound disposing state of mind during the last days and by playing fraud these documents dated 15-8-1984 and 16-8-1984, Exs.B-1 and B-2, the registered copies which were marked as Exs.A-4 and A-5 had been obtained. It is also their case that Kollapu Veerayya was admitted in the hospital of Dr. Kasturi Suryanarayana as an in-patient and he had no intention either to settle the entire property in favour of the second daughter and her sons alone. It is also their specific case that the defendants were not aware of the execution of the settlement deeds till the death of Veerayya. Veerayya was an illiterate and aged about 80 years. As per the material available on record, it appears Veerayya had been in the habit of executing certain documents like Exs.B-3 and B-4 and also yet another will said to have been executed subsequent to Ex.B-4 as spoken to by P.W.1. It may be appropriate to have a look at the relevant pleadings made in O.S. No. 108/86 in this regard which are as hereunder: The circumstances which had been narrated and the evidence available on record may have to be taken into consideration to appreciate the fact whether the settlement deeds referred to supra are in any way vitiated and liable to be set aside or the said documents are to be confirmed. Strong reliance was placed on Ex.A-2 in this regard apart from the other oral evidence available on record to substantiate the stand that the said settlement deeds are valid, genuine and executed by Kollapu Veerayya voluntarily. The said notice dated 24-8-1.984, Ex.A-2, reads as hereunder: Yours faithfully,
 

(P.M. Gandhi)
 Advocate L.T.M. of Kollapu Veerayya 16. Order 6 Rule 4 C.P.C . reads as hereunder: 17. None of the beneficiaries or settlees under the settlement deed had been examined. China Mangammaforthe reasons best known to her had not examined herself. It is no doubt true that the husband of China Mangamma was examined as P.W.1. P.W.1 deposed that the 1st defendant who is his mother-in-law died during the pendency of the suit and they had not taken any steps and except the daughters, the 1st defendant is not having any other Class I heirs, and his father-in-law died testate and it is his specific stand that his father-in-law executed yet another will in 1984 and the same is a registered one. This witness deposed that after the execution of the registered will his father-in-law executed settlement deed in favour of the settlees in a sound disposing state of mind and they had taken his father-in-law to the house of Mohiddin. He further deposed that Pudi Nageswararao and E. Solomonraju attested the settlement deed in the house of Mohiddin and they acted as identifying witnesses also before the Sub-Registrar and his father-in-law also witnessed the attestation of the attestors. The said Mohiddin died and his father-in-law executed the settlement deed with free will and there was no pressure and his father-in-law settled Acs.6-00 in favour of three sons and Ac. 1-00 in favour of his another son and Ac. 1-29 cents in favour of his wife. He had narrated about several other details. P. W. 1 also further deposed that when Jithuka Ramudu tried to interfere with the land, his father-in-law and his son had filed caveat in District Munsif's Court, Rajahmundry and Jithuka Ramudu had not issued any notice to them after filing the caveat. P.W.1 further deposed that J. Ramudu got issued a notice Ex.A-1 to his father-in-law and his father-in-law got issued Ex.A-2 reply and Ex.A-3 is the postal acknowledgement. This witness also deposed that Naramma filed a suit against Kollapu Veerayya for recovery of leased land and he got engaged Putrevu Suryanarayanamurthy as his Counsel and later he had withdrawn his contest by filing a document into the Court to that effect and Veerayya affixed his thumb impression in the said paper and in view of the withdrawal of the said suit, the suit filed by Naramma was decreed and delivery was ordered. It was suggested to P.W.1 that Saraswathi was residing with her father along with her husband and children for the last 7 years prior to the death of Veeraiah which he had denied. This witness further deposed that Veerayya orally gifted a hut and there were disputes between him and his brothers and he left the family and he had denied the suggestion that his father-in-law permitted to reside in the house as a licencee only and he came out from his brother. After the death of Veerayya they shifted their residence to the tiled house and they were residing in both the houses. It was further deposed that 1 1/2 months back prior to the death of his father-in-law, he suffered with diarrohea and was admitted in the hospital of Kasturi Suryanarayana and his father-in-law was in hospital for three days and after discharge his father-in-law had not been taking any treatment since he recouped from motions. This witness deposed that he does not know whether his father-in-law executed a registered will on 14-12-1979 and his father-in-law had not informed him about the execution of the 1979 will and he does not know whether his father-in-law had also executed another will dated 4-3-1983 and he cannot say how many days prior to the death of his father-in-law he had executed the will and it must be in 1984 and he was not present when his father-in-law executed the will in 1984 and he does not know that in 1984 the will was executed at the house of Putrevu Panthulu garu and he does not know whether his wife and sons had taken the plea that his father-in-law executed the will on 20-7-1984 and they are not in possession of the registered will. One week or 10 days after discharge from the hospital his father-in-law executed settlement deeds. This witness also deposed that his father-in-law came to Rajahmundry two times for execution of settlement deeds and they accompanied him. Solomon Raju accompanied his father-in-law and one Bandi Asenu also accompanied his father-in-law for one time. This witness deposed that it is not true to say that Solomon Raju was working as Pleader's clerk at the time of execution of settlement deeds. Solomon Raju had no avocation at the time of settlement deeds and Bandi Asneu was studying at Rajahmundry at that time. This witness also deposed that his father-in-law was the client of Putrevu Panthulu and his son who is an Advocate. He had not purchased the stamp papers for writing the originals of Ex.B-1 and Ex.B-2 and his father-in-law purchased the stamp for one document and his son Surya Rao purchased stamps for the second document. This witness P.W.1 also deposed as hereunder: Several other suggestions also had been denied by this witness. This witness also deposed that his father-in-law informed him that he executed a will in 1984 and he had not seen 1984 will till that day. This is the evidence of P.W.1. 18. P.W.2, the first attestor of Ex.A-4, deposed that he went to the house of Shaik Meerauddin and he had seen Kollapu Veerayya in the house of Mohiddin and Mohiddin drafted the settlement deed and Meerauddin requested him to attest the document and he had attested the same. Kollapu Veerayya affixed his thumb impression in the deed Ex.A-4 in his presence and he cannot say the name of the second attestor. In cross-examination P.W.2 deposed that he had no acquaintance with Veerayya prior to Ex.A-4. The age of Veerayya was 70 to 75 years at the time of Ex.A-4 and he had not observed whether Veerayya was suffering from any disease at that time and Veerayya had not opened his mouth When Ex.A-4 was written. He had not seen any other person along with Veerayya at the house of Meerauddin and certain suggestions no doubt had been denied. 19. P.W.3 deposed that he worked as Pleader's Clerk upto 1983 and he also deposed that he acted as identifying witness in Ex.A-4 and A-5 and Asenu is the second identifying witness and the witness identified the signature. This witness also deposed that Veerayya was in a sound disposing state of mind. In cross-examination this witness deposed that he worked as Advocates Clerk of P.M. Gandhi from 1982 and 1983 and from 1983 onwards he worked as School's clerk at different schools at different places. He. deposed that Veerayya informed him that he will execute another settlement deed and requested him to come to the Registrar's officer straight away and he had denied certain suggestions. This witness also deposed that Veerayya informed that his wife and daughters were not looking after him properly and hence he was writing the settlement deed. This witness no doubt denied the suggestion that the documents were obtained by fraud. Certain other suggestions also had been denied. P.W.4 was examined for the limited purpose that he appeared in O.S. No. 552/79 on the file of Principal District Munsif, Rajahmundry on behalf of Koilapu Veerayya and one Kunche Naramma filed the said suit and this witness was examined only just to substantiate that Veerayya understood the questions and gave answers and he had signed the memo and filed the memo into Court in O.S. No. 552/78. His cross examination would got show that he cannot definitely say about the memo filed and the other particulars. 20. D.W.1, the 4th defendant in O.S. No. 202/85 and 4th plaintiff in O.S. No. 108/86 had narrated all the details. This witness no doubt specifically deposed that her father was in a sound disposing state of mind when he executed the two wills and to her knowledge subsequent to Exs.B-3 and B-4 her father had not executed any other will and her father was bed ridden three months back to his death and her father suffered with fever and motions and they admitted him in the hospital of Suryanarayana at Rajahmundry and her father was not in sound mind and he was unable to identify the person and this witness, her mother, P.W.1 and son followed her father to hospital and her father was in hospital for ten days and P.W.1 and his son looked after his father and herself (D.W.1) and her mother were bringing meals from the house. Even in the hospital her father was not of sound mind. She further deposed that the distance between Rajahmundry and Diwancheruvu would be about 6 miles and after ten days her father was discharged from the hospital and came to Diwancheruvu and died after one month and her father had not executed settlement deeds in favour of the sons of P.W.1 and P.W.1 and his son had obtained settlement deeds from her father playing fraud and her father was not in a sound mind and during the pendency of the suit her mother died and her mother executed a registered will dated 16-11-1985, Ex.B-5. This witness also deposed that the attestors on the original Ex.B-3 will are no more and the scribe of the original of Ex.B-3 also is no more and one of the attestors of the original of Ex.B-4 also is no more. D.W.I in cross-examination had deposed:- The evidence of D.W.3 is to the effect that he is the identifying witness of Ex.A-4 and attestor of Ex.A-5. He deposed about the details and the condition of Veerayya and deposed that Veeraiah was not in a position to identify the persons. Venkanna and others took Veerayya to Sub-Registrar's office in a taxi and they went by a scooter. D.W.3 further deposed that Venkanna and others represented that they were obtaining a lease deed in respect of the lands of Veerayya and requested D.W.3 to attest a document. Practically Kollapu Veerayya was lifted by three persons from the hospital into the taxi and from taxi into the Sub-Registrar's office. The contents of the document were not read over to Veerayya and was not in a position to understand the things. He further deposed that the contents of the documents were not also read over to him. Exs.A-4 and A-5 are already written by the time of registry. P.W.1 and his sons requested him to come on the next day also and again the 2nd document was registered. On the date of registration of Ex.A-5 Veerayya became weak. Exs.A-4 and A-5 were not executed by Veerayya with free will. This witness was cross-examined at length. He deposed that he affixed his thumb impression in the presence of Sub-Registrar and Veerayya had not witnessed D.W.3 affixing the thumb impression. No doubt certain suggestions were put relating to enmity. This witness specifically deposed that he was under the impression that Veerayya a executed a lease deed only and he was under that impression and under that impression only he had attested the document and originally he was not inclined to attest Ex.A-5 but at the request of P.W.1, he had attested the same. This witness also deposed that one week after the registration of the deeds Chandrarao represented to him that they obtained settlement deeds from Veerayya by playing fraud and he had not gone to the house of Meera Mohiddin. This witness also deposed that it is not true to say that Veerayya was conscious at the time of execution of Exs.A-4 and A-5 and he voluntarily got registered them. Some other suggestions also had been denied. 21. The evidence of yet another witness, D.W.4, also is crucial. This witness is aged about 80 years and he specifically deposed that D.W.1 and his family members resided in the thatched house of Veerayya and two or three months prior to the death of Veerayya he was not in a position to understand the things and Veerayya was also admitted in hospital and after discharge from hospital he was not talking with others also and Veerayya suffered from motions and his wife attended him. D.W.4 had narrated several other details relating to family. 22. No doubt strong reliance was placed on the contents of Ex.A-2 to substantiate the stand that the settlement deeds aforesaid had been executed by the deceased Veerayya voluntarily. Several decisions referred(11) to(32) supra are to substantiate the stand that in general the principle relating to the Will also may have to be extended in the case of appreciation of evidence in relation to the execution of settlement deeds and at any rate the general principles vitiating the contracts also may have to be applied in the case of settlement deeds while deciding the validity thereof. Placing reliance on the decision referred (11) supra, submissions were made that the principles of suspicious circumstances and proof relating to will as such cannot be extended in the case of settlement deeds. It is no doubt true that the same standard of proof as required in the case of proof of a Will and also explaining the surrounding suspicious circumstances and the other relevant factors in proof thereof as such may not be extended while appreciating the standard in proof required in relation to the execution of the settlement deeds. In Shri Krishan v. Kurukshetra University , , it was held that where a person on whom fraud is committed is in a position to discover the truth by dues diligence, fraud is not proved and it is neither a case of suggestion falsi or suppressio veri. In the light of Ex.A-2 and also in the light of the fact that Veerayya lived for some time, submissions were made at length that the so called fraud if any even subsequent thereto having been detected the same was not rectified by the settlor and in such circumstances it may have to be taken that no such kind of fraud had been established. In Pardhana v. Amin Chandand Ors., ,it was held that a revocation of a gift by donor's heir is legal and right to sue for such declaration is not personal but statutory and on donor's death the cause of action survives to his legal representatives. In the decision referred (3) supra, it was held that where the donor of immovable property has handed over to the donee an instrument of gift duly executed and attested and the gift has been accepted by the donee, the donor has no power to revoke the gift prior to the registration of the instrument. In the decision referred (4) supra it was held that once gift deed is executed and has been delivered to the donee, the donor cannot revoke the gift even before registration on the ground that gift is not completed until the deed is registered. In the decision referred (8) supra it was held that when the executant of the gift deed admitted execution by him it is not open to third party to deny its execution except on the ground of lack of power to convey the property. In the decision referred (7) supra it was held that where registered deed of gift was signed by donor and attested by witnesses it is valid and it can be said to be proved even if one of the attesting witness is not called for proving its execution. Reliance also was placed on Sivakoti Dasaradharam v. Sivakoti Yoganandam, AIR 1966 A.P. 273. In S. Rathnam Naidu v. Kanni Amma , , where a widow having absolute interest in the property transferred it without consideration and the donor got settlement deed executed within few days after she was taken by him to Madras from her village and when the deed of settlement was challenged by the heirs after the death of the donor on the ground of undue influence exercised by the donee it was held that the donee must prove that the deed was voluntary and without any undue influence and where the evidence showed that the widow never had any independent advice in executing settlement deed, it was held that the settlement deed is vitiated by undue influence. In Tagore v. Tagore, (1879) 9 Beng. LR. 377, it was observed that the law of wills among Hindus is analogous to the law of gifts and even if wills are not universally to be regarded in all respects as gifts to take effect upon death they are generally so to be regarded as to the property which they can transfer and the perons to whom it can be transferred, and the law of testamentary disposition was developed in all essential matters on the analogy of Hindu law of gifts. Strong reliance was placed on the decisions referred 27 to 32 supra also. Apart from these decisions, the decisions referred (12) to (25) supra relating to the suspicious circumstances and the standard of proof required in the case of proof of a will also had been relied upon. 23. In the light of evidence of P.W.1, P.W.2, P.W.3, P.W.4, D.W.1, D.W.3 and D.W.4, now it may have to be appreciated whether the findings recorded by the trial Court in this regard may have to be confirmed or liable to be disturbed. There is no controversy that the settlor Kollapu Veerayya was sufficiently old at the relevant point of time. The evidence of D.W.4 who is also a sufficiently old man, would go to show that there were no differences in the family and there is no compelling reason or explanation why Veerayya thought of excluding the other heirs in preference to only one branch of his heirs. It is no doubt true that Suryakantham pre-deceased Veerayya and it is the contention and the stand taken by the other daughters that all daughters were being treated alike by the deceased Veerayya. It is pertinent to note that the contesting defendants inclusive of the mother, no doubt who is no more and who died pending litigation, had taken the specific stand placing reliance on certain wills. It is clear from the evidence available on record that this old man Veerayya was habituated to the execution of certain documents as can be seen from the first will and the second will and also yet another will said to have been executed in 1984 which had not seen the light of the day. No doubt P. W. 1 had deposed about the third will but however D.W.1 had taken a specific stand that she had no such knowledge at all. It is no doubt true that when Ex.B-3 dated 14-12-1979 was not proved in accordance with law, the recitals specified therein to show that Veerayya had been treating all the daughters alike may not be taken serious note of. Lengthy submissions were made in this regard by the learned Counsel representing the defendants. Be that as it may, except P.W.4, the Advocate who no doubt made an attempt to show that at a particular point of time Veerayya was alright, and P.W.2 and P.W.3, none of the beneficiaries as such had been examined and the husband of China Mangamma was examined as P.W. 1. His evidence also would go to show that the family members of Veerayya had been looking after him and in fact the hospital charges were paid by Veerayya only. Apart from this aspect of the matter, the evidence of D.W.1 is clear that they have been looking after Veerayya by visiting the hospital and taking meals etc. The evidence of D.W. 1 in this regard appears to be natural. The evidence of P.W.3 definitely would clearly throw doubt about the mental condition of Veerayya at the relevant point of time. P.W.4 also was not clear or categorical in his evidence about the mental state of Veerayya at the relevant point of time. It is no doubt true that the ground of fraud had been taken but the allegations in substance may have to be taken into consideration while appreciating whether the settlement deeds are to be confirmed or to be cancelled. In the light of the over all appreciation of evidence available on record, the trial Court recorded findings in detail while arriving at the conclusion why it cannot be held that the settlement deeds were voluntarily executed by the deceased Veerayya and if all the circumstances are carefully scrutinized, especially the evidence of D.W.1 and D.W.3 in this regard coupled with the evidence of D.W.4 and also on further careful scrutiny of the evidence of P.W.1, P.W.2, P.W.3 and PAA/.4, this Court is of the considered opinion that the reasons recorded by the trial Court are justifiable reasons and hence on the mere ground that several details relating to fraud or the other aspects had not been clearly established as per law, the relief cannot be negatived to the other daughters who are entitled to their respective shares in the absence of such settlement deeds. Hence, this Court is of the considered opinion that in the light of the appreciation of evidence available on record, the findings recorded by the trial Court in this regard are just and proper and are hereby confirmed. Point No. 2: 24. Having dealt with the validity of settlement deeds, the next question is whether the parties would be governed by the testamentary succession or intestate succession. Testamentary succession is a deviation of natural course of intestate succession. It is needless to say that in view of the same careful scrutiny of the validity of the will in question and the evidence relating thereto may be essential. Apart from Exs.A-4 and A-5 settlement deeds made by Veerayya it is said that he had also executed three wills viz., Ex.B-3 dated 14-12-1979, Ex.B-4 dated 4-3-1983 and yet another will dated 20-7-1984. In the plaint in O.S. No. 108/86 at paras 9,10 and 11 if was pleaded as hereunder: On the last will said to have been executed by the said Kollapu Veerayya P.W.1 deposed: Further, P.W.1 deposed: No evidence was let in relating to Ex.B-3 but however certain submissions were made that in the light of the recitals in Ex.B-3, the deceased Veerayya had never any intention of discriminating one daughter from another daughter. It is needless to say that when a document is not proved in accordance with law, the recitals therein need not be considered. However, strong reliance was placed on Ex.B-4. The trial Court no doubt recorded a finding that Ex.B-4 was proved. The evidence of D.W.1 and D.W.2 may be relevant on this respect. D.W.1, the 4th defendant in O.S. No. 202/85 and 4th plaintiff in O.S. No. 108/86, no doubt deposed that her father was in a sound disposing state of mind at the time of execution of the two wills and P.W.1 and his sons had taken away the iron box which contains the original will and the other documents from the tiled house when her father was not doing well and hence the certified copy of the first will was marked as Ex.B-3 and the second will dated 4-3-1983 was marked as Ex.B-4. D.W.1 had taken a specific stand that to her knowledge her father had not executed any other will subsequently. The evidence of D.W.2 Addanki Venkata Ramana Sarma is the only evidence available on record in proof of the execution of Ex.B-4 apart from the evidence of D.W.1. The original of Ex.B-4 was not produced and submissions at length were made relating to the admissibility of secondary evidence and the conditions which may have to be satisfied in this regard. In the decision referred (6) supra it was held that unless the loss of the original deed is proved or it is proved that the original is in possession of or under the control of the opposite party, secondary evidence is inadmissible and the certified copy of such document is inadmissible in evidence. In T. Venkata Narayana v. Venkata Subbamma , , it was held that in a suit for perpetual injunction restraining 1st respondent from alienating the property based on compromise decree, on the death of 1st respondent during the pendency of the suit the successor respondent coming on record under Order 22 Rule 4 C.P.C . and claiming that her predecessor had executed a will in her favour but that having been lost, she shall be allowed to adduce secondary evidence under Section 65 of the Evidence Act, it was held that she is not entitled to adduce secondary evidence to prove the alleged will in suit for mere injunction. In the decision referred(9) supra, while dealing with the stage to raise the objection relating to the admissibility of the document the Apex Court observed at paras 19 and 20: Except the statement made by D.W.1 in this regard that the iron box in which certain documents inclusive of Ex.B-4 had been taken away by the sons of P. W. 1, there is no evidence available on record relating to this aspect. 25. The principles relating to proof of wills are well settled and need no elaboration at the hands of this Court. In Soorjeemoney Dossee v. Deenobunda Mullick , (1857) 6 MIA 523; their Lordships of the Privy Council observed that whatever may I have formerly been considered the state of law that as to the testamentary power of the Hindus over this property the power has long been recognized and must be considered as completely established. See also Baboo Beer Pertab Sahee v. Maharaj Rajendra Pratap Sahee, (1867) 12 MIA 1. In Ram Gopal v. Apina Kunwar , 49 IA 413, their Lordships of the Privy Council observed that a will is one of the most solemn documents known to law and by it a dead man entrusts to the living the carrying out of his wishes as it is impossible that he can be called either to deny his signature or to explain the circumstances in which it was made and it is essential that trustworthy and effective evidence should be given to establish the will and in case of dispute or doubt the best evidence procurable should be furnished. 26. D.W.2 deposed that he bas been writing the required forms at Sub-Registrar's office, Rajahmundry and he knows Veerayya of Diwancheruvu and he knows execution of will by Veerayya as he attested it in 1983 and the will was executed in the compound of Sub-Registrar's office, Rajahmundry. This witness further deposed that Putrevu Pantulugaru was the scribe of the will who is no more. Veerayya gave necessary instructions to the scribe for writing the will and Veerayya was in a sound disposing state of mind. This witness further deposed that Veerayya bequeathed life interest to his wife and bequeathed the vested remainder to his daughter. This witness further deposed that Meka Narasimharao also attested the will and he is no more. Veerayya affixed his thumb impression in the will in the presence of this witness, attestors and scribe. The scribe read over the contents before Veerayya before Veerayya affixed his thumb impression in the will and Veerayya witnessed the attestation and he had also scribed as identifying witness. In the cross-examination this witness deposed that he had not scribed the documents of Veerayya prior to the will and in 1979 he was at Srikrishnapatnam. Upto 1979 he was not acquainted with Veerayya and he is not a document writer and he had not prepared any document and he cannot say in how many documents he had attested and he attested the will only. This witness further deposed that he does not remember whether he attested any documents of Veerayya in 1983 and out of remembrance only he is deposing and the certified copy of the will shows that he attested the original of the will. This witness further deposed that Meka Narasimha Rao belongs to Diwancheruvu and he does not know whether Veerayya executed any other will subsequently and he attested the original of the said will at the request of Veerayya. This witness further deposed that after the completion of the writing of the will only Veerayya requested him to attest on it and he does not know whether Veerayya gave instructions to the scribe for preparation of the will and certain suggestions also had been denied. This witness further deposed that the will was executed in two papers and the scribe got affixed the thumb impression of Veerayya in the will and after writing "Kollapu Veerayya Nishani" Veerayya affixed his thumb impression on the above word and he worked as Village Karanam for 20 years and he knows how to write a will and the litigation also and he does not remember whether the will was executed on two sheets completely and he had denied the suggestions that he had not attested the original will at all and that he does not know the execution of the will by Veerayya. 27. It is pertinent to note that it is not the last will and it is said that yet another will dated 20-7-1984 is said to have been executed followed by the settlement deeds. In the decision referred (11) supra, it was observed: In the decision referred(22), supra a Division Bench of this Court held: Now the evidence has been discussed by the trial Court as well as by the learned single Judge and there is ample evidence that for execution of both wills Ex.A-1 and B-2 the propounder took prominent part and there are shaky signatures and the feeble mind could be presumed in view of the health condition of the testator and in both the wills there is unfair and unjust disposal of the properties. Other judgments on which reliance has been placed are the judgments reported in V. Venkateswara Rao v. Y. Nageswara Rao and Ors. (2000 (1) C.C.C. 142 (A.P.), Rani Purnima Debi and Anr. v. Kumar Khagendra Narayan Deb and Anr. , Shri Kishan Chand and Anr. v. Smt. Basanti Devi (died) by L.Rs. (1996 (2) ICC 283) and Gorantla Thataiah v. Thotakura Venkata Subbaiah and Ors. ." Strong reliance was placed on the decisions (20) and (23) too In this regard. A three Judge Bench of the Apex Court in the decision referred (24) supra held as hereunder: In order to prove the due attestation of the will Ex.A-36 Gangotri would have to prove that Uma Dutt Singh and Badri Singh saw the deceased sign the will and they themselves signed the same in the presence of the deceased, the evidence of Uma Dutt Singh and Badri Singh is not such as to carry conviction in the mind of the Court that they saw the deceased sign the will and each of them appended his signature to the will in the presence of the deceased. They have been demonstrated to be witnesses who had no regard for truth and were ready and willing to oblige Gur Charan Lal in transferring the venue of execution and attestation of the documents Ex.A-23 and Ex.A-36 from Gonda to Tarabganj for reasons best known to themselves. If no reliance would thus be placed upon their oral testimony, where would be the assurance that they actually saw the deceased execute the will in their presence and each of them signed the will in the presence of the deceased. It may as well be that the signature of the deceased on the will was appended at one time, the deceased being there all alone by himself and the attestations were made by Uma Dutt Singh and Badri Singh at another time without having seen the deceased sign the will or when the deceased was not present when they appended their signatures thereto in token of attestation. We have no satisfactory evidence before us to enable us to come to the conclusion that the will was duly attested by Uma Dutt Singh and Badri Singh and we are therefore unable to hold that the will Ex.A-36 is proved to have been duly executed and attested. When this position was realized the learned Counsel for Gangotri fell back on an alternative argument and it was that the deceased admitted execution and completion of the will Ex.A-36 and acknowledged his signature thereto before the Sub-Registrar at Tarabganj and this acknowledgment of his signature was in the presence of the two persons who identified him before the Sub-Registrar viz., Mahadeo Pershad and Nageshur who had in their turn appended their signatures at the foot of the endorsement by the Sub-Registrar. These signatures it was contended were enough to prove the due attestation of the will Ex.A-36. This argument would have availed Gangotri of Mahadeo Pershad and Nageshur had appended their signatures at the foot of the endorsement of registration 'animo attestandi'. But even apart from this circumstance it is significant that neither Mahadeo Pershad nor Nageshur was called as a witness to depose to the fact that such attestation if any. One could not presume from the mere signatures of Mahadeo Pershad and Nageshur appearing at the foot of the endorsement of registration, that they had appended their signatures to the document as attesting witnesses are can be construed to have done so in their capacity as attesting witnesses. Section 68 , Indian Evidence Act requires an attesting witness, to be called as a witness to prove the due execution and attestation of the will. This provision should have been complied with in order that Mahadeo Pershad and Nageshur be treated as attesting witnesses. This line of argument therefore cannot help Gangotri'. In the decision referred(25) supra, this Court at para-10 held: Strong reliance was placed on several other decisions also in relation to the proof of will and the standard of proof required and the burden of proof in relation thereto. D.W.1 no doubt explained about the non-production of the original of Ex.B-4. The witness who had been examined, D.W.2, no doubt deposed about the attestation in relation to the original of Ex.B-4 but he does not belong to the village and it is not his case that he is at least a well-wisher of the family and he appears to be a stranger. It is no doubt the stand taken that the scribe and the other attestor are no more. The translated version of Ex.B-4 may be looked into in this regard for better appreciation which is as hereunder: 28. On a careful scrutiny of the whole evidence available on record, it is clear that Suryakantham, one of the daughters of Veerayya is no more and the wife of Veerayya also died during the pendency of the litigation and it is said that she also executed a will but no proof is forthcoming relating thereto. It is no doubt true that the testator's intention to be given effect to provided the voluntary testamentary disposition and the capacity of the testator had been clearly established by legally acceptable proof. It is also clear that Veerayya had daughters only and there appears to be an attempt to get at the property or at least a lion's share of it by one or the other and in these attempts a series of documents had flown in relation to the property. As can be seen from the recitals of Ex.B-4 and the stand taken by P.W.1 relating to yet another will said to have been executed by Veerayya followed by the settlement deeds, it is clear that China Mangamma's branch had been making series of attempts to get at the total property or at least the lion's share depriving the other daughters. Also, oft change of mental state of Veerayya can be well culled out from the series of documents executed by him. These documents appear to have been brought into existence due to pressure, may be from different quarters and from different daughters. Mangamma who was said to have been given only the life interest under Ex.B-4 is no more. Thus on a careful scrutiny of all the facts and circumstances and also the evidence of D.W.1 and D.W.2 coupled with the evidence of P.W.1, this Court is of the considered opinion that the voluntary testamentary disposition of Veerayya at the relevant point of time i.e., Ex.B-4, is highly doubtful and hence the findings recorded by the Court below relating to the validity of Ex.B-4 in the light of the standard of proof expected in relation thereto cannot definitely be upheld. At the same time, it is made clear that total exclusion of all other daughters from inheriting any portion of the property would be totally unjust and inequitable and the same cannot be permitted in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case. Hence, this Court is of the considered opinion that even Ex.B-4 would /not stand to the legal scrutiny relating to voluntary testamentary disposition of Veerayya at the relevant point of time in the light of the peculiar facts and circumstances and hence the said findings of the Court below are liable to be set aside and it is needless to say that in view of the fact that yet another will subsequent to Ex.B-4 had not been proved at all, may be in the light of subsequent settlement deeds on which strong reliance was placed by P.W.1, Kollapu Veerayya who died intestate leaving behind him his wife and daughters and since one of the daughters Suryakantham predeceased him and the wife also died during pendency of the litigation, the rest of the four daughters would be entitled to equal share in all the properties left by him by intestate succession. Point No. 3: 29. In view of the fact that Ex.B-5 had not been proved and also in the light of the fact that no other heirs are there representing the branch of Suryakantham, the other four daughters would be entitled to equal shares of 1/4th each in all the properties which had been left by the deceased Kollapu Veerayya by operation of intestate succession. Hence, a preliminary decree is granted for partition to divide all the properties left by Kollapu Veerayya amongst all the four daughters equally taking good and bad qualities into consideration. Thus, the decrees made in O.S. No. 108/86 and O.S. No. 205/85 are accordingly modified to the extent indicated above and the Appeals and the Cross-Objections are partly allowed to the said extent. In view of the close relationship between the parties, this Court makes no order as to costs.