1. In
this petition under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
the petitioners have prayed, inter alia, that:- 2. The
FIR / complaint against which present petition is taken out is
registered as Ist -C.R. No. 161 of 2009 dated 4.7.2009 wherein the
complainant i.e. private respondent has alleged offence punishable
under Sections 406 , 420 , 422 of Indian Penal Code. 3. The
said FIR / complaint is filed with reference to the alleged offence
said to have been committed on 8.5.1995. 4.
	The complainant is liquidation officer of the Co-operative Bank and
	he has lodged complaint on behalf of and as liquidator of the
	Co-operative Bank alleging, inter alia, that the petitioner Nos. 2
	and 3 are Directors of the petitioner No.1 company in whose favour
	loan / credit facility to the tune of Rs.25 lacs came to be granted
	vide resolution No.4 in the meeting of the Board of Directors held
	on 28.4.1995 and that the said credit facility / advance as well as
	the said resolution No.4 came to be passed in breach of the Rules of
	the Bank and guidelines issued by Reserve Bank of India. The
	petitioner Nos. 2 and 3 had executed certain documents and after
	availing the said facility, the petitioner No.1 company and the
	petitioner Nos. 2 and 3 its directors did not repay the loan amount
	despited notices by the company. It is further alleged that the
	petitioners issued Cheque No. 936701 dated 7.1.1998 drawn on Fedral
	Bank Limited, Ashram Road Admedabad for a sum of Rs. 25 lacs towards
	payment of the loan however, when the Co-operative Bank deposited
	the said cheque, it was dishonoured and therefore complaint under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instrument Act came to be filed.
	According to the allegations made by the complainant i.e. liquidator
	of the co-operative bank, the petitioners have committed fraud and
	cheating with co-operative bank. 5. So
	far as the factual background is concerned, the petitioners have
	averred, inter alia, that:- (I) Applicants state that applicant N0.1 Public Limited Company
		registered under the Companies Act . Applicants further state that
		Applicant No.2 and 3 are Directors of the applicant No.1 company. (II)
		Applicants state that respondent No.2 is authorised persons
		appointed by the liquidation officer of the Bhagyalaxmi
		Co-operative Bank Ltd. registered under the co-operative Societies
		Act . Applicants further state that since the year 2000 Bhagyalaxmi
		Co-operative Bank Ltd. is under liquidation and liquidation officer
		is appointed. (III)
		Applicants state that in the year 1995 i.e. on 28th
		April 1995, applicant No.1 had applied for Bill Purchase Cash
		Credit facility for Rs.25,00,000/- from the respondent No.2 Bank
		for the purpose of enhancing its business activities. Applicants
		further state that at the time of availing said facility from
		respondent No.2 Bank, present applicants No.2 and 3 being directors
		of the applicant No.1 stood as Guarantors of the applicant No.1. (IV)
		Applicants state that according to the terms and conditions as
		mentioned in the agreement executed at the time of availing said
		facility from the respondent No.2 Bank, present applicants were
		suppose to pay 20% quarterly interest and the said facility was
		given for one year subject to such other conditions. (V)
		Applicants state that due to financial set back in the business of
		the present applicants, present applicants was not able to fulfill
		terms and conditions as mentioned in the agreement with the bank
		and as there was breach of agreement on the part of present
		applicants, respondent No. 2 Bank had initiated recovery
		proceedings on 12th May 1998 in form of filing Lavad
		Case No. 624 of 1998 before Ld. Board of Nominees for the Recovery
		of Rs.38,52,273/- which is pending.......... (VI)
		Applicants state that respondent No.2 bank had also initiated
		Criminal Proceedings under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instrument
		Act by filing Criminal Case No. 263 of 1998 for the same alleged
		transaction of availing Bill Purchase Cash Credit facility of
		Rs.25,00,000/- which is pending trial........... (VII)
		Applicants state that applicant No.3 had preferred an application
		for quashing of the above said Criminal Case vide Special Criminal
		Application No. 1834 of 2009 on the ground that to arraigned
		Director of the company under Section 141 of the Negotiable
		Instrument Act, specific allegation that director is responsible
		and looking after day to day affairs of the company is must and as
		from the bare reading of the complaint and deposition of the
		complainant it was not coming on record that present petitioner no.
		3 is concerned with the day to day affairs of the original accused
		No.1. Applicants further state that said application came to be
		withdrawn on 30th November 2009 as this Hon'ble Court
		was not inclined to entertain only on the ground that quashing
		petition is filed in the year 2009 for the complaint which was
		filed as back as in the year 1998......... According
				to the petitioners the impugned FIR came to be filed on 4.7.2009 6. In
addition to the said factual background which is narrated in the
petition, it has also emerged from the submissions by learned Counsel
that the complainant liquidator / co-operative bank has filed Lavad
Suit for recovery of the loan amount in question and the said suit is
pending and the proceedings initiated under Section 138 of the
Negotiable Instrument Act are also pending. 7.
	Learned advocate for the petitioners also claimed and contended that
	in connection with the cheque issued by the petitioner No.1 (which
	was allegedly dishonoured) the complainant / bank also filed
	Criminal Case 263 of 1998. 7.1
	In the said petition the applicant has averred that the said
	Criminal case under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instrument Act is
	pending and learned Counsel for the complainant also submitted that
	unto his information the proceedings are pending however, during the
	hearing learned advocate for the applicant submitted that according
	to the information to the petitioner No.1 the said case is disposed
	of and the petitioner No.1 is acquitted with the above mentioned
	facts. 7.2
	The learned advocate for the petitioners submitted that actually any
	offence is not made out in the complaint and even if the allegations
	in the complaint / FIR are taken on its face value then also, any
	ingredients of the alleged offence are not borne out. 7.3
	Learned advocate for the petitioners further submitted that
	petitioners have not committed alleged offence and the delay in
	lodging FIR / complaint is not explained inasmuch as the loan / cash
	credit facility were availed in 1995 whereas the complaint came to
	be filed in 2009. 7.4
	Learned advocate for the petitioners also submitted that the loan
	facility was availed for business purpose and that therefore any
	dishonest intention is not made out from the bare reading of the
	impugned FIR. 7.5
	Learned advocate for the petitioners also contended that the
	complainant / bank has, without any justification, given colour of
	criminal offence to the dispute which is purely of civil nature. 7.6
	On such contentions learned advocate for the petitioners submitted
	that the impugned complaint may be quashed. 8.
	The petition is vehemently opposed by learned advocate for the
	respondent complainant / bank. He submitted that after availing
	loan / cash credit facility the petitioners did not make any payment
	to the bank and even the cheque which was tendered by petitioner
	No.1 came to be dishonoured. 8.1
Learned advocate for the respondent also submitted that the way and
the manner in which the loan / credit facility came to be sanctioned
and granted in favour of the petitioners and the rules and procedure
of the bank and guidelines prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India
were not followed and ignored in the process of sanctioning and
granting loan / credit facility to the petitioners go to show that
from inception there was intention to not repay the loan amount and
to commit fraud with the bank. 8.2
The learned advocate for the respondent complainant relied on the
observation by the Hon'ble Apex Court in case between Baldev Singh
vs. State of Punjab (1995 [6] SCC 593) and submitted that every
minute detail is not required to be mentioned in the FIR and only
essential or broad picture need to be stated in the FIR and that the
FIR need not be verbatim summary of the entire case of the
prosecution. He also relied on the observations by the Hon'ble Apex
Court in case between State of Bihar vs. Raj Narain Singh (AIR 1991
SC 1308) and submitted that even if there are discrepancies in FIR
and statements of witnesses interference at preliminary stage is not
justified. 9. I
	have heard Mr. Dave, learned advocate who has appeared for the
	petitioners accused persons and Mr. D.V. Shah, learned advocate
	who has appeared for the respondent complainant and learned APP
	for respondent No.1 State of Gujarat and have also considered the
	material on record. 9.1
	It is not in dispute that the petitioner No.1 availed loan / cash
	credit facility. It is also not in dispute that the petitioners have
	not repaid the loan amount in question. 9.2
		It is also not in dispute that the cheque issued and handed over by
		the petitioners towards repayment of loan has been dishonoured by
		the bank. 9.3
		Learned advocate for the petitioners claimed that the complaint and
		the proceedings of the Criminal Case deserve to be quashed because
		of delay caused in filing the complaint. 9.4
		On this count it is relevant to mention that the complainant has,
		prima facie, explained the cause inasmuch as it is claimed that
		after the loan / cash credit facility was granted to accused No.1,
		the concerned directors, according to complainant acted hands in
		gloves with accused No.1 and they did not take any action or any
		initiative in instituting criminal proceedings against accused no.1
		and when the details came to the knowledge of the liquidator and
		the details about the lavad proceeding and the order therein came
		to the notice of the liquidator he initiated the proceedings. In
		view of the said submission and explanation on part of the
		complainant, it would be too premature for this Court to record any
		conclusion on this count and to quash the complaint until
		appropriate material related to the said issue becomes available
		upon completion of the investigation. 9.5
	Moreover, it is also relevant to mention that from the rival
	contentions it has emerged that rules and procedure of the
	co-operative bank and the guidelines prescribed by Reserve Bank of
	India were allegedly violated while sanctioning and granting loan /
	credit facility to the petitioners and such allegations by
	liquidation officer also suggest / allege that with intention to
	commit fraud with the bank a conspiracy was hatched and any action,
	at the relevant time, was not taken by the Directors / officer of
	the bank for long time and even after filing Lavad Suit, any action
	for the offence was not instituted. The respondent complainant /
	bank seems to have alleged that the accused persons acted by way of
	conspiracy and have committed fraud with the bank. 9.6
	In view of such allegations the Court is also of the view that when
	question of public money and interest is involved then delay should
	not stand in way of investigation and on ground of delay the
	complaint and investigation should not be quashed at this stage and
	the said aspect would be considered at appropriate stage by the
	learned Trial Court. 9.7	At
	this stage the Court would not be inclined to allow the petition and
	quash the complaint merely on the ground of delay when prima facie
	the complainant has tendered plausible explanation. 9.8
		Another contention raised by present petitioners is that the
		details in the chargesheet bring out that the complainant has tried
		to give colour of criminal offence to the dispute which is
		essentially of civil nature and that therefore the complaint should
		be quashed. 9.9
		In light of the allegations, it prima facie appears at this stage
		that the allegations contain traits and ingredients of criminal
		offence and elements of offence coexist with the dispute which also
		appears to be of civil nature. 9.10
		However, a complete factual picture can become clear only after the
		investigation is carried out and completed and the investigation
		officer collects relevant and necessary material. Before that it
		would be premature to record any conclusion. 9.11
		From the allegations in the impugned complaint and the material
		available on record, it has emerged that the complainant has
		alleged financial irregularities and breach of guidelines issued by
		Reserve Bank of India and violation of instructions rules of
		the co-operative bank. It is also alleged that fraud with a
		co-operative bank is perpetrated. 9.12
		When the complaint by a statutory authority alleging offence in
		nature of, or which amounts to, fraud with a nationalized or
		co-operative bank is filed and the case involves public money and
		interest, in such cases Court would not readily or quickly quash
		the complaint on ground of delay in lodging the complaint / FIR
		and/or on the ground that subject matter of the complaint is in
		nature of civil dispute and that allegations do not make out any
		offence. 9.13
		The possibility that during investigation sufficient material,
		which may make out case for trial against the accused person, may
		become available to the I.O. cannot be ruled out at threshold of
		the investigation. 9.14
		Therefore in such cases it would neither be just nor proper to
		scuttle and stiffle the investigation at its threshold. 10.
	In light of the allegation that the loan / cash credit facility came
	to be granted without diligently following the procedure and without
	fulfilling the prescribed requirements would, ordinarily justify the
	banks doubt and therefore the complainant's allegation that from
	initial stage the accused persons acted with intent to commit fraud
	with the bank. 10.1
	In this view of the matter, it is clear that whether there is any
	base for and whether there is any substance in the said allegation
	is matter of investigation. 10.2
	Unless the investigation officer records statements of the concerned
	persons and unless he collects relevant document and material, at
	this stage Court cannot pronounce any conclusion and / or Court
	cannot mechanically accept the petitioner's defence that there was
	no intention nor can the Court accept and that too even before the
	investigation, the bank's submission that the accused acted with
	intention and by way of conspiracy. 10.3
	The facts before the Court, at this stage, are hazy and that
	therefore it would not be proper or justified to terminate the
	investigation at its threshold. 10.4
	When the subject of the FIR / investigation is related to fraud with
	co-operative bank, ordinarily the Court would be loath to interfere
	at the stage of investigation so as to not allow the investigation
	to commence and / or continue. 11. In this context it would relevant to take into account the
		observations made by Hon'ble Apex Court in case between State of
		Bihar v. Murad Ali Khan & Ors. [(1988) 4 SCC 655], wherein the
		Hon'ble Apex Court has observed that: We may reiterate and emphasise that the powers possessed by the High
Court under Section 482 Cr.P.C. Are very wide and the very plenitude
of the power requires great caution in its exercise. Court must be
careful to see that its decision in exercise of this power is based
on sound principles. The inherent power should not be exercised to
stifle a legitimate prosecution. The High Court being the highest
court of a State should normally refrain from giving a prima facie
decision in a case where the entire facts are incomplete and hazy,
more so when the evidence has not been collected and produced before
the Court and the issues involved, whether factual or legal, are of
magnitude and cannot be seen in their true perspective without
sufficient material. Of course, no hard and fast rule can be laid
down in regard to cases in which the High Court will exercise its
jurisdiction of quashing the proceeding at any stage. [See Janata Dal
v.H.S. Chowdhury (1992) 4 SCC 305; Raghubir Saran Dr. v.State of
Bihar 1964 (2) SCR 336; Kurukshetra University v. State of Haryana (1977) 4 SCC 451; and Zhandu Pharmaceuticals Works Limited and Others
v.Mohd. Sharaful Haque and Another 2005 (1) SCC 122]. In
	fact, the question of mala fides in a case like the present is not
	at all relevant. If the complaint which is made is correct and
	offence has been committed which will have to be established in a
	court of law, it is of no significance that the complainant is a
	person who is inimical or that he is guilty of mala fides. If the
	ingredients which establish the commission of the offence or
	misconduct exist then, the prosecution cannot fail merely because
	there was an animus of the complainant or the prosecution against
	the accused. Allegations of mala fides may be relevant while judging
	the correctness of the allegations or while examining the evidence.
	But the mere fact that the complainant is guilty of mala fides,
	would be no ground for quashing the proceedings. [See State of
	Maharashtra v. Ishwar Piraji Kalpatri (1996) 1 SCC 542; Zhandu
	Pharmaceuticals Works Limited and Others v. Mohd. Sharaful Haque and
	Another 2005 (1) SCC 122; State of Bihar & Anr. v. J.A.C.
	Saldanah (1980) 1 SCC 544; State of Orissa v. Saroj Kumar Sahoo 2005
	(13) SCC 540]. There may be some exceptions to the said rule but we
	are not concerned with such a case. 11.2
		On the decision in the case of State of Orissa and Ors. v. Ujjal
		Kumar Burdhan [2012 (1) GLH 875], the Hon'ble Apex Court has
		observed that: It is true that the inherent powers vested in the High Court under
Section 482 of the Code are very wide. Nevertheless, inherent powers
do not confer arbitrary jurisdiction on the High Court to act
according to whims or caprice. This extra-ordinary power has to be
exercised sparingly with circumspection and as far as possible, for
extra-ordinary cases, where allegations in the complaint or the first
information report, taken on its face value and accepted in their
entirety do not constitute the offence alleged. It needs little
emphasis that unless a case of gross abuse of power is made out
against those incharge of investigation, the High Court should be
loath to interfere at the early/premature stage of investigation. 8. In State of West Bengal and Ors. Vs. Swapan Kumar Guha and Ors. (1982)
1 SCC 561: 1982 SCC (Cri) 283, emphasising that
the Court will not normally interfere with an investigation and will
permit the inquiry into the alleged offence, to be completed, this
Court highlighted the necessity of a proper investigation observing
thus:- Having regard to the allegations and details mentioned in the FIR /
	complaint and the facts and circumstances of the case and the
	foregoing discussions and upon applying above quoted principles and
	observations by the Hon'ble Apex Court this Court is not inclined to
	and not convinced to entertain present petition and / or to accept
	the request of the petitioners. 13.
	The Court is neither convinced nor inclined to interfere with the
	investigation and to quash the FIR before the
	investigation at this stage i.e. even before it is commenced and
	concluded. The petition therefore fails and is rejected. Rule is
	discharged. Sd/- (K.M.THAKER, J.) 

 

Suresh*
 

 

 

	At
this stage, Mr. Dave, learned advocate for the petitioner submitted
that interim relief which was granted in February 2010 and has
remained in operation until now, may be extended for some time. Ms.
Reeta Chandarana learned APP submitted that so far as the said
request is concerned, appropriate order may be passed. Mr. Shah,
learned advocate for the respondent is not present. Mr. Ankit Mehta,
learned advocate for Mr. D.V. Shah, learned advocate for the
respondent, is present. However, he has not raised any objection with
reference to the said request. Therefore, interim relief which is in
operation until today, stands extended to and shall continue on same
terms until 8.10.2013. Sd/- (K.M.THAKER, J.) 

 

Suresh* 14