Per Justice Mr.A.P. Bhangale, Hon'ble President 1. The appeal is directed against order dated 24/07/2014 passed by
the District Forum, Central Mumbai dismissing the consumer complaint
No.140/2013 and driving the appellant/complainant to approach the
appropriate Court on the ground that it is not possible to decide the
complicated questions of facts in summary procedure. A/14/755 2. Facts which are material for deciding this appeal are as under :- 3. Complainant has Mobile phone number 9323074811 issued from
the Reliance Telecommunications Limited (Opponent No.2) which got
suddenly deactivated on 08/01/2013. Complainant had visited Franchise
of the Opponent No.2 M/s.Swastik Intercom, Dombivali, complainant
was advised to change SIM Card which will be reactivated within three
hours but it was not activated. Complainant came to know subsequently
that the same SIM Card was activated by someone in Hyderabad by
negligence of Opponent No.2. 4. Under the above circumstances the complainant had approached
the Banking Ombudsman, who had directed the Opponent No.1 to pay
Rs.1,40,000/- to the complainant and IndusInd Bank to pay Rs.Two
Lakhs only. The complainant dissatisfied, issued legal notice to the
Opponents and filed the complaint for to recover the sum of
Rs.14,00,900/- from the Opponents with interest at the rate of Rs.15%
per annum and claim damages of Rs.Three Lakhs for the mental
harassment and costs of litigation in the sum of Rs.One Lakh only. 5. The opponents contested the complaint by filing written version
contending that the Complainant had disclosed the confidential details of
his bank account to the anonymous mailer which led to fraudulent
transactions. Since the Mobile phone of the Complainant was deactivated
he purchased new mobile handset and all data was transferred to the new
handset and deleted from the old handset. The complainant was informed
by the Swastik Telecom that the complainant's SIM Card was activated
in Hyderabad on 08/01/2013 by unknown person. Police investigation Page 3 of 10 A/14/755

was done by Cybercrime Cell. Opponent No.1 contended that fraud was
committed on the basis of old data in the old mobile set. Complainant did
not change the Log in ID or password. Investigation in to details was
necessary as beneficiaries had Bank account with ICICI Bank and
IndusInd Bank and amounts were already siphoned off by the
beneficiaries. Opponents had contended that the complicated questions of
fraud and forgery ought not to be dealt with by the Consumer Fora. 6. Both the parties filed documents/ affidavits in support of their
contentions and also replies/counters. After considering the material
before it, the forum came to pass the impugned order. Aggrieved thereby,
the appellant/complainant is before us. 7. We have heard Learned Counsel Mr.Binoy Gupta for appellant and
Learned Counsel Mr.K.A. Suryanarayanan for respondent No.1 and
Learned Counsel Mr.Kirankumar Phakade fopr respondent No.2. With
the help of both parties, we have gone through the material on record. 8. The Learned Counsel for the appellant first submitted that the
opponent- bank ought to have been held guilty of gross deficiency in
service to the complainant since all that was done could not have been
done without the negligence of the officials concerned of the opponent
No.1-Bank. 9. The Learned Counsel of the respondents sought to submit that in
fact it was the complainant who had approached the Ombudsman and
was awarded the compensation though partly to reimburse the damage
caused to the Complainant. 10. We have carefully considered rival contentions. The undisputed
facts are that the complainant had Salary Savings Account with the Axis Page 4 of 10 A/14/755

Bank Ltd. at Khar (West) Branch. In respect of the fraudulent
transactions the complainant had informed within two days of the
fraudulent transactions to the Bank. It was necessary for the opponent
No.1 to immediately take action to lodge a complaint with the police and
to recover the siphoned off sums from the beneficiaries and the
intermediate Banks concerned. In the ruling in CCI Chambers Co-
operative Housing Society V/s. Development Credit Bank Limited in
Appeal (Civil) No.7228 of 2001 decided on 29/08/2003 the Apex Court
reported as 2003 Supp (3) SCR 139, it is observed thus :- In our opinion the decision arrived at by the NCDRC is premature.
 The Commission ought to have issued notice to the respondent and
 taken its pleadings on record. Only when the pleadings for both
 parties were available should the Commission have formed an
 opinion as to the nature and scope of enquiry, i.e., whether the
 questions arising for decision in the light of the pleadings of the
 parties required a detailed and complicated investigation into the
 facts which was incapable of being undertaken in a summary and
 speedy manner. Then the Commission could have justifiably
 formed an opinion on the need of driving away the complainant to
 the Civil Court. Mere complicated nature of the facts and law
 arising for decision would not be decisive." The jurisdiction of the Consumer Fora exists to impart speedy and
expeditious cheaper justice to protect the Consumers. Section 3 of the
Consumer Protection Act, 1986 do provide efficacious, additional and
supplementary remedy. Complaint cannot be thrown away merely
because some complicated questions may arise. Consumer Fora do have
ample powers to deal with the consumer disputes to solve them and
protect the consumers. 11. There is increase in the grievances of the customers in relation to
unauthorized banking transactions in respect of electronic online
remote payment and cashless transactions e.g. internet banking, mobile
banking, card not present (CNP) transactions, pre-paid payment
instruments resulting in debits from their Bank accounts and customers Page 6 of 10 A/14/755

need to be protected in unauthorized electronic banking transactions.
Banks need to assure safety to the customers making them feel safe and
secure in respect of the electronic banking transactions. Banks are duty
bound to take appropriate steps to assess the risk and provide for robust
mechanism to prevent and detect fraud and to provide for liability arising
out of misappropriation or fraud. Banks must ask their customers to
compulsorily register for the E-mail alerts, SMS alerts, system must be
such so that customers can immediately inform by reply to the Bank
about any illegal or unauthorized remote or internet transaction soon after
occurrence thereof. Customer's liability must be zero when he informs
the Bank at the earliest possible opportunity. Burden of proof to prove
customer's liability is upon the Bank in all cases of the online internet
transactions, Bank must show that it had taken immediate steps to
prevent and/or detect fraud. Banks transacting inter se do have means to
trace the culprits on the basis of Know Your Customer (KYC) details in
the Bank accounts and recover the sums wrongly transferred by
electronic transfers. The basic principle is one must be made to pay for
negligence when it has caused deficiency in service and loss to consumer
actionable under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 . It is argued that
appellant himself is negligent but this submissions by the respondents is
not acceptable because in cases of internet transfers unless alerted prior
to or at the time of internet transfers we cannot impute any blame to the
consumer, who was in darkness as to withdrawals by unknown persons
by mode of internet transfers. 12. In view of this, we hold in the facts and circumstances of the case
that the forum was not justified in not holding the Axis Bank liable to
restore and refund the Salary Savings money with the bank account of
the Complainant account holder and take prompt steps to recover the Page 7 of 10 A/14/755

same from the culprits by lodging prompt criminal proceedings. In
Criminal trial also Section 357 of the Criminal procedure Code can upon
application by the aggrieved party enable any criminal Court to
compensate appropriately at the conclusion of the Criminal trial apart
from other remedies according to prevalent law to trace and recover the
money wrongly transferred. Internet Banking is a facility made available
from the Bank on payment of service charges. The Bank concerned is
duty bound to protect its consumer's interest by alerting the consumer of
services by E-mails and SMS communications when electronic
transactions exceeding Rs.50,000/- or beyond are done on behalf of the
consumer account holder. We refer Circular of Reserve Bank of India
bearing DBR.No.Leg.BC.78/09.07.005/2017-18 dated 06/07/2017
regarding limiting liability of customers in unauthorised electronic
banking transaction. The shift in the policy of the Reserve Bank of India
fixing zero liability upon the Bank customer in case of sending funds by
internet transfers through other Banks, that too without alerting the
Customer by E-mails or SMS alerts must be adhered to by the
nationalized and recognized Banks doing banking business in India. The
burden to disown liability is heavy on the opponent No.1 Bank and it was
not discharged satisfactorily in the facts and circumstances of the case.
The Bank sending money by internet transfers when informed promptly
by the consumer in such case is expected to lodge the complaint
immediately with the police and follow the money went in to wrong
hands by appropriate criminal proceedings by resort to Section 357 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure. In the meantime the Bank concerned shall
make good the loss caused to the Consumer by negligence on the part of
the Bank or its officials. The Non-deposit and non-restoration of the
money misused and/or misappropriated or wrongly sent by internet
transfers, at the foot of the Savings Bank account of the Complainant Page 8 of 10 A/14/755

amounted to deficiency in service on the part of the opponent No.1
Bank, actionable by the consumer under the Consumer Protection
Act,1986 . 13. Impugned judgment and order therefore is unsustainable, unjust
and improper. 14 . In view of the reasons stated, we pass the following order :-