- 1. The appellants have approached this Court being

 aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 23/02/2006, passed by the
 218.06apeal (2) learned IIIrd Ad-hoc Additional Sessions Judge, Ahmednagar, in

Sessions Case No.151/2005, wherein appellant/accused No.1 was

convicted for offence punishable under Sections 306 and 489-A read

with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, whereas appellant Nos.2 to

4 were convicted for offence punishable under Section 306 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code. 2. The prosecution case is that accused No.1 Rajendra

Haribhau Kothule is the son of accused Nos.2 and 3. Accused No.4 is

sister of accused Nos.1. PW-1/Maruti Shankar Bhalsing and PW-3

Saraswati Maruti Bhalsing are husband and wife and are residents of

Dhondewadi. Deceased Savita @ Sunita was their daughter, whose

marriage took place with accused No.1/Rajendra prior 4-5 years of

alleged incident dated 16/04/2005. 3. According to the informant, after two years of marriage

the accused demanded Rs.1,00,000/- for purchase of Tractor. In the

meanwhile, deceased Savita gave birth to a daughter Priyanka, who

was 2 ½ years old at the time of incident. Accused No.1 was a Tractor

driver and the appellants/accused were used to demand money by

beating and abusing Savita. Savita alleged to have informed about the

said harassment to PW-1/Maruti on phone. Even before the incident
 218.06apeal (3) on Tuesday, PW-3/Saraswati had been to house of accused No.1 and at

that time, deceased Savita alleged to have told her about her ill-

treatment by the accused. On 16/04/2005, Savita informed on phone

to her parents that the accused assaulted her by first and kicks blows,

and therefore, she was returning back to her parental house. PW-1

and PW-3, her parents were waiting for her, but at 1.00 a.m., one

Dattaram, nephew of PW-5/Hausrao informed them on phone that

dead bodies of deceased Savita and her daughter Priyanka are found in

the well, situated at Gut No.198 of village Khadki. Thereafter, PW-1

and PW-3 proceeded to Khadki. 4. Earlier, one Gowardhan Jaywant Kothule gave

information of accidental death of deceased Savita and Priyanka to

PW-8/Dnyandeo Dhondiba Gajare, the then P.S.O. at Nagar Taluka

Police Station which is at Exhibit-47. On the basis of said

information, A.D. No.27/2005 came to be filed. Accordingly, PW-10

Prakash Karbhari Pawar drew inquest panchnama at Exhibit-29 and 23

on the dead bodies. He also drew spot panchnama at Exhibit-32. The

dead bodies were sent for autopsy to the Civil Hospital, Ahmednagar.

PW-9/Dilip Ramchandra Kate, who registered the Crime No.60/2005

for the said incident and handed over further investigation to PW-10/
 218.06apeal (4) A.P.I. Mr Prakash Karbhari Pawar. PW-10/Prakash carried out

investigation by recording statements of witnesses. He requested

Tahsildar to drew map of the spot, on whose behalf, PW-6/Shaikh

Manjur Ahmed, being Revenue Circle Inspector, drew the map of the

spot. After completion of investigation, charge-sheet came to be filed

before the learned Judicial Magistrate First Class against all the

accused/appellants. 5. Learned Judicial Magistrate First Class, Ahmednagar

committed trial to the Sessions Court. The learned Sessions Court,

framed charge against the accused persons under Sections 489-A , 306 , 304-B read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code. As the accused

persons pleaded not guilty, they claimed to be tried. 6. The prosecution, in order to prove their case, examined as

much as 10 witnesses. PW-1/Maruti Shankar Bhalsing, father of

deceased Savita was examined at Exhibit-26. PW-3/Saraswati Maruti

Bhalsing, mother of deceased Savita was examined at Exhibit-30. PW-

5/Hausrao Appa Wadekar, maternal uncle of deceased Savita was

examined on the point of ill-treatment and unlawful demand, at

Exhibit-36. Another witnesses, namely, PW-2/Sakharam Nivrutti

Pawar was examined on inquest panchnama at Exhibit-28 and
 218.06apeal (5) PW-4/Haribhau Madhavrao Nikam were examined on spot panchnama

at Exhibit-32. The Revenue Circle Inspector/PW-6 Shaikh Manjur

Ahmed was examined at Exhibit-37, whereas PW-7/Dr. Ashok

Dadasaheb was examined at Exhibit-40. PW-8/Dnyandeo Dhondiba,

A.S.I. who received information about incident was examined at

Exhibit-47. PW-9/Dilip Ramchandra Kate, Police Head Constable

who received complaint was examined at Exhibit-48. PW-10/Prakash

Karbhari Pawar, A.P.I., who was Investigating Officer in this case was

examined at Exhibit 50. 7. After recording aforesaid evidence, statements of accused

person came to be recorded under provisions of Section 313 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure. The defence of the accused was denied

with the contention that accused No.1 himself had paid Rs.10,000/- as

hand-loan to PW-1/ Maruti and on the day of incident, deceased Savita

had gone to the house of PW-1/Maruti and demanded money. Instead

of returning the said money, PW-1 insulted Savita and on her returned

journey, she and Priyanka accidentally fell into the well and died due

to drowning. 8. After recording the evidence and hearing the parties,

learned Sessions Court, by order dated 23/02/2006, convicted accused

No.1/Rajendra for the offence punishable under Section 306 read with
 218.06apeal (6) Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code and was sentenced to suffer

rigorous imprisonment for 7 years and to pay a fine of Rs.500/-. In

default of payment of fine, he was sentenced to suffer rigorous

imprisonment for 8 months. He was further convicted for offence

punishable under Section 489-A read with Section 34 of the Indian

Penal Code and was sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for 2

years and to pay fine of Rs.200/-. In default of payment of fine, he

was sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for 4 months. Accused

No.2/Haribhau, accused No.3/Sarubai and accused No.4/Ashabai were

convicted for the offence punishable under Section 306 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code and were sentenced to suffer

rigorous imprisonment for 3 years and to pay fine of Rs.300/- each.

In default of payment of fine, they were sentenced to suffer simple

imprisonment for 2 months. All the substantive sentences were

directed to be run concurrently. 9. Heard Mr Zaidi, learned Advocate holding for Advocate

Mr Satej Jadhav for the appellants and learned APP Ms Mantri for

respondent/State. 10. Mr Zaidi, learned Advocate for the appellants states that

the impugned judgment and order is illegal and based upon

presumptions and the learned Sessions judge has failed to consider
 218.06apeal (7) evidence on record in its proper perspective. He then states that the

appellants are innocent and they are at all not involved in the instant

crime and as such they cannot be held guilty for the aforesaid offences.

He submits that the prosecution witnesses have not stated or given any

specific date as regards alleged ill-treatment or harassment to deceased

Savita. Deceased Savita was mother of 2 ½ years old girl Priyanka.

PW-1/father of deceased Savita had admitted in his examination that,

at the time of marriage of his son, appellant/accused No.1 had

supported him by paying Rs.10,000/- at that time and therefore,

alleged demand of Rs.1,00,000/- by accused persons is falsified.

Deceased Savita alongwith her daughter on the date of incident had

been to house of PW-1 for demanding the said amount of Rs.10,000/-.

PW-1, instead of returning the amount, alleged to have insulted

deceased Savita. Thereafter, she was returning to her matrimonial

house and on the way, she alongwith her daughter fell into well

accidentally and died. He further submits that the postmortem report

discloses no injuries as regards assault on the person of deceased.

PW-3/mother of the deceased Savita, by way of her improvement has

elaborately stated that the accused persons have assaulted deceased

with stick blows, however, the said improvement is merely to convict

the appellants for serious offences as she had disclosed the said assault
 218.06apeal (8) for the first time in the Court. Learned Advocate for the appellants

further submits that, considering the aforesaid improvement of the

parties, it cannot be said that the appellants have caused any

harassment to the deceased. Even if it assumed that there is

harassment for the sake of arguments, same cannot be treated as

harassment or cruelty as per the provisions of Sections 306 and 489-A of the Indian Penal Code. Further he submits that, in order to attract

offence under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code, harassing should

be made out to the deceased to such an extent that there could not be

any other option to the deceased than to take such extreme steps.

Therefore, he submits that as the prosecution has miserably failed to

bring such harassment before the learned Sessions Court to such an

extent, the appellants cannot be regarded as guilty for the alleged

offence, for which they have been charged. He, accordingly prays for

allowing of the present appeal by acquitting the appellants. 11. Per contra, learned APP Ms Mantri supports the order of

the learned Sessions Court. She strongly opposes the appeal and

submits that the statements of the witnesses show that the deceased

was harassed on account of bringing Rs.1,00,000/- from her parents for

the purpose of purchase of Tractor. Their statements are consistent

with each other. The deceased had committed suicide by jumping into
 218.06apeal (9) well in view of the said harassment. Deceased was having 2 ½ years

old daughter at the time of said suicide. No mother would take such

steps to commit suicide alongwith her daughter. Therefore, learned

APP submits that the prosecution has proved the case against the

appellants beyond reasonable doubt, and therefore, the present appeal

deserves to be dismissed by holding the appellants guilty for the

aforesaid offences. 12. After hearing the learned Advocates for the parties at

length and having gone through the entire record, I found that

deceased Savita was married to appellant No.1 4-5 years prior to

incident. Appellant No.1 was a Tractor driver. The parents of the

deceased had fixed marriage of deceased Savita with appellant No.1 in

which PW-5 was the mediator. PW-1 and PW-3, parents of the

deceased Savita, though had stated as regards alleged harassment to

deceased Savita on account of bringing Rs.1,00,000/-, the fact remains

that they have never made complaint to any authority as regards the

said harassment. One aspect is also required to be considered that

there is admission on the part of PW-1 Maruti, father of deceased

Savita that he had obtained hand-loan of Rs.10,000/- from accused

No.1 at the time of marriage of his son. This shows that appellant
 218.06apeal (10) No.1 is having sound economic position, and as such, he would require

financial assistance from his in-laws, is doubtful. 13. It is also required to be considered here that the spot,

where the deceased Savita had alleged to have committed suicide is far

away from her matrimonial house. The said spot is located in the way

between her parental house and matrimonial house. The suggestions

given by the accused side that the deceased was returning from the

house of her parents on the day of incident, after refusing to get

amount of Rs.10,000/- paid by her husband to her father, assumes

significance. Therefore, the aspect that soon before her death, cruelty

meted out to her is required to be examined from the angle, whether

the accused are guilty of the offences charged with. The evidence

brought by the prosecution is totally silent as regards the said aspect as

to who were responsible for the suicidal death of deceased Savita as it

has come on record that Savita had been to her parents house before

committing suicide. 14. Hence, in view of aforesaid observations, it is very

difficult to consider that it was only accused persons and no one else

are responsible for the said incident. The prosecution has also failed to

bring before this Court that there was any cruelty as defined under
 218.06apeal (11) Section 498-A of the Indian Penal Code, and therefore, the appellants

cannot be held guilty for the said offence punishable under Section

498-A of the Indian Penal Code. 15. In that view of the matter, in my opinion, the appellants

have made out case. Consequently, this appeal is allowed. The

impugned judgment and order dated 23/02/2006, passed by the learned

3rd Ad-hoc Additional Sessions Judge, Ahmednagar, in Sessions Case

No.151/2005 is hereby quashed and set aside. The conviction and

sentence of the appellants under Sections 306 and 498-A read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code is hereby set aside and they are

acquitted for the charges framed against them. The bail bond stands

cancelled. Surety, if any, stands discharged. Fine amount, if

deposited, be refunded. The Record and Proceedings be sent back to

the concerned Court. [SUSHIL M. GHODESWAR, J.]
sjk