Order No.
 16.07.2021 1. This writ petition has been filed assailing the order
 dated 11.12.2020 (Annexure-7) passed by learned Arbitral
 Tribunal in Arbitration Proceeding No.68 of 2019, whereby it
 rejected an application filed under Section 16(2) of the
 Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short, 'the Arbitration Act '). 2. Short narration of facts relevant for proper
 adjudication of this case are that the Government of Odisha in
 the Department of Commerce and Transport published notice
 on 14.12.2009 informing about issuance of Request for
 Proposal (RFP) and inviting tender from reputed Infrastructure
 Developers for development of the Baramunda Bus Terminal,
 Bhubaneswar along with commercial facilities through public Page 1 of 48 // 2 //

private partnership mode. In the said tender process, ARSS
Infrastructure Project Limited (ARSS Infra) was selected as
the preferred bidder. Accordingly, on 26.07.2010 Letter of
Acceptance was issued by the Secretary to Government of
Odisha, Department of Commerce and Transport in favour of
the ARSS Infra. A Concession Agreement was executed
between the General Manager of Orissa State Road Transport
Corporation (OSRTC) (the Petitioner) and Opposite Party-
ARSS Infra on 16.03.2011 (Annexure-1). Assailing the
validity of the execution of such Concession Agreement, Writ
Petition (PIL) No.30961 of 2011 (for short 'PIL') was filed
before this Court with a prayer to quash the Concession
Agreement dated 16.03.2011 along with other reliefs. The
Petitioner, Opposite Party as well as ARSS Infra were arrayed
as opposite parties to the said PIL. 3. This Court, vide order dated 20.12.2012 (Annexure-2),
holding that the Concession Agreement being in contravention of Article 299 of the Constitution of India is not sustainable in law,
allowed the said PIL with the following orders: // 3 //

3.1 The judgment and order dated 20.12.2012 remained
unchallenged and attained its finality. Subsequently, invoking
Clause-16 of the Concession Agreement (Annexure-1) the
Opposite Party filed an application under Section 11 of the
Arbitration Act in ARBP No.53 of 2016 before this Court for
appointment of Arbitrators. Clause-16 of the Concession
Agreement deals with dispute resolution, which reads as
follows:- Although the plea with regard to sustainability of the arbitration
clause after quashing of the Concession Agreement was raised
by the Petitioner, this Court vide its order dated 15.11.2019
(Annexure-3), allowed the application under Section 11 of the
Arbitration Act appointing arbitrators and leaving open for the
parties to raise all issues before the arbitrators. The order under
Annexure-3 passed by this Court was assailed by the petitioner
before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in SLP(C) No.10086 of
2020, which was dismissed vide order dated 10.06.2020 Page 3 of 48 // 4 //

(Annexure-4) confirming the order of this Court. Accordingly,
Arbitration Proceeding No.68 of 2019 was registered on the file
of the Arbitral Tribunal at the instance of the Opposite Party.
The Petitioner in terms of the liberty granted by this Court, filed
an application under Section 16(2) of the Arbitration Act before
the Arbitral Tribunal raising certain grounds with regard to
existence of the arbitration clause in the Concession Agreement
(Annexure-1) and jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal to
arbitrate the dispute. The Opposite Party filed its objection to
the said application. Considering the rival contentions of the
parties, the Arbitral Tribunal passed the impugned order under
Annexure-7. Initially, the Petitioner filed CMP No.690 of 2020
assailing the order under Annexure-7, which was converted to
Writ Petition (Civil) pursuant to order dated 19.01.2021.
Accordingly, this Writ Petition (Civil), i.e., W.P.(C) No.2472 of
2021 was registered. The Opposite Party filed its counter
affidavit raising objection with regard to maintainability as well
as merit of the Writ Petition. 4. Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior Advocate appearing for
the Petitioner contended that when the Concession Agreement
dated 16.03.2011 (Annexure-1) has been held to be void ab
initio and unenforceable vide judgment dated 20.12.2012
(Annexure-2), the arbitration clause/agreement, which is a part
and parcel of the Concession Agreement itself perishes with it.
OSRTC has no independent relationship with the Opposite
Party. It was authorized by the Government of Odisha to
execute the Concession Agreement on its behalf. When the
Concession Agreement itself has been declared null and void Page 4 of 48 // 5 //

holding that OSRTC has no authority to execute the
Concession Agreement and the execution is violative of Article 299 of the Constitution of India and Section 23 of the
Contract Act, there is no signature or agreement in writing and
the document (Concession Agreement) does not exist at all.
The aforesaid findings extends to and impeaches the
arbitration clause/agreement contained in the Concession
Agreement. 5. Elaborating his submission Mr. Mohanty, learned
Senior Advocate submitted that Clause 16 is an integral part of
the Concession Agreement. Though arbitration clause
contained in the Concession Agreement is regarded as a
separate agreement notionally, but it has no independent and
separate existence as it is contained in one document. It exists
during the life time of the Concession Agreement. Quashing of
the Concession Agreement by this Court affects the existence
of the arbitration clause as it perishes along with the
Concession Agreement itself. An arbitration agreement must
satisfy the requirements of Section 7 of the Arbitration Act and Sections 2(g) , (j), 10 and 23 of the Contract Act . The
arbitration clause being a part of the Concession Agreement
itself comes under first part of Section 7(2) of the Arbitration
Act. Therefore, it must satisfy the requirement of Sections 7(3) and 7(4)(a) , which requires that the arbitration agreement shall
be in writing and signed by the parties. In view of the
categorical finding of this Court to the effect that there is no
execution of the agreement dated 16.03.2011 (Annexure-1)
there remains no signature/signing of the Concession Page 5 of 48 // 6 //

Agreement which contained the Arbitration Agreement in it.
Thus, apart from the fact that the arbitration clause has
perished with the quashing of the Concession Agreement
(Annexure-1), it also does not satisfy the requirements of Section 7(3) read with Section 7(4)(a) of the Arbitration Act.
In support of his submission, Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior
Advocate relied upon the case of Fili Shipping Co. Ltd. and
others v Premium Nafta Products Ltd. and others reported in
(2007) UKHL 40, which reads thus: and can be void or voidable only on grounds which
 relate directly to the arbitration agreement. Of course
 there may be cases in which the ground upon which the
 main agreement is invalid is identical with the ground
 upon which the arbitration agreement is invalid. For
 example, if the main agreement and the arbitration
 agreement are contained in the same document and one
 of the parties claims that he never agreed to anything in
 the document and that his signature was forged, that
 will be an attack on the validity of the arbitration
 agreement. But the ground of attack is not that the main
 agreement was invalid. It is that the signature to the
 arbitration agreement, as a "distinct agreement", was
 forged. Similarly, if a party alleges that someone who
 purported to sign as agent on his behalf had no
 authority whatever to conclude any agreement on his
 behalf, that is an attack on both the main agreement
 and the arbitration agreement. (emphasis supplied) 18. On the other hand, if (as in this case) the allegation
 is that the agent exceeded his authority by entering into
 a main agreement in terms which were not authorised
 or for improper reasons, that is not necessarily an
 attack on the arbitration agreement. It would have to be
 shown that whatever the terms of the main agreement
 or the reasons for which the agent concluded it, he
 would have had no authority to enter into an
 arbitration agreement. Even if the allegation is that Page 6 of 48 // 7 //

 there was no concluded agreement (for example, that
 terms of the main agreement remained to be agreed)
 that is not necessarily an attack on the arbitration
 agreement. If the arbitration clause has been agreed,
 the parties will be presumed to have intended the
 question of whether there was a concluded main
 agreement to be decided by arbitration. xx xx xx 35. That is not this case, however. The owners'
 argument was not that there was no contract at all, but
 that they were entitled to rescind the contract including
 the arbitration agreement because the contract was
 induced by bribery. Allegations of that kind, if sound,
 may affect the validity of the main agreement. But they
 do not undermine the validity of the arbitration
 agreement as a distinct agreement. The doctrine of
 separability requires direct impeachment of the
 arbitration agreement before it can be set aside. This is
 an exacting test. The argument must be based on facts
 which are specific to the arbitration agreement.
 Allegations that are parasitical to a challenge to the
 validity to the main agreement will not do. That being
 the situation in this case, the agreement to go to
 arbitration must be given effect." He also relied upon the case of N.N. Global Mercantile Pvt.
Ltd -V- Indo Unique Flame Ltd. and Others , reported in 2021
SCC Online SC 13, wherein, it is held that if an arbitration
agreement is not valid or non-existent, the Arbitral Tribunal
cannot assume jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the disputes. 5.1 He further contended that the arbitration agreement
must satisfy the provisions of the Contract Act specifically Sections 2(g) , 2(j) , 10 and 23 of the Contract Act. It cannot be
bereft of the provisions of Contract act. In support of his case,
he relied upon the case of Vidya Drolia and Others -v- Durga
Trading Corporation, reported in (2021) 2 SCC 1 in which it
is held that 'Agreement' is not defined in the Arbitration Act ,
albeit it is defined under Section 10 of the Contract Act. It is Page 7 of 48 // 8 //

also held therein that Arbitration Agreement must satisfy the
objective mandates of the Law of Contract to qualify as an
agreement. Clause (g) and (h) of Section 2 of the Contract Act
states that an agreement not enforceable by law is void and an
agreement enforceable by law is a contract. 5.2 He also relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of Swiss Timing Limited -v-
Commonwealth Games 2010 Organising Committee, reported
in (2014) 6 SCC 677, which laid down that undoubtedly, in
cases where the Court can come to a conclusion that the
contract is void without receiving evidence, it would be
justified in declining reference to arbitration but such cases
would be few and isolated. 5.3 He further relied upon the case of Uttarakhand Purv
Sainik Kalyan Nigam Limited -v- Northern Coal Field
Limited, reported in (2020) 2 SCC 455 in which relying upon
recommendation of the 246th report of the Law Commission,
Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the judicial intervention is
only restricted to situations where the Court finds that the
arbitration agreement does not exist or is null and void.
However, if the Judicial Authority is of the opinion that prima
facie the arbitration agreement exists then it can refer the
dispute to arbitration and leave the existence of arbitration
agreement to be finally determined by the Arbitral Tribunal. 6. It is his contention that the Concession Agreement
under Annexure-1 itself being violative of Section 23 of the
Contract Act and there is no valid contract in the eyes of law.
Thus, the findings in the PIL are also applicable and extend to Page 8 of 48 // 9 //

the arbitration clause contained in the main agreement under
Annexure-1. As such, the arbitration agreement is void and not
enforceable being in contravention of Sections 2(g) , 2(j) as
well as Sections 10 and 23 of the Contract Act. The invalidity
of the arbitration agreement is governed under the principle of
ex nihilo nil fit, which means 'nothing comes out of nothing'.
When there is no signing of the contract (Concession
Agreement) and there is no agreement in writing, the
arbitration clause/agreement does not satisfy the requirements
of Section 7 of the Arbitration Act. 7. Relying upon the decision in the case of Union of
India -v- Kishorilal Gupta & Bros., reported in AIR 1959 SC
1362, he submitted that when an arbitration clause is a
collateral term of contract and an integral part of the contract,
in such a case, howsoever comprehensive the terms of the
arbitration clause may be, the existence of the contract is a
necessary condition for its operation. In other words, it
perishes along with the contract. Since the Concession
Agreement has been declared null and void ab initio, the
necessary inference would be that it had never legally come
into existence. Thus, there cannot be any existence of
arbitration clause in absence of the main contract itself. He
also relied upon the case of Jaikishan Dass Mull -v-
Luchhiminarain Kanoria & Co., reported in AIR 1974 SC
1579 and Andritz Oy. rep. through Power of Attorney Agent,
Mr. Siraj Ahmad, New Delhi-V- Enmas Engineering Pvt.
Ltd., rep. by its Director and Principal Officer, Chennai and
another, reported in (2007) 3 Arb LR 545. He, therefore, Page 9 of 48 // 10 //

contended that if a contract is void ab initio, the arbitration
clause, which is an integral part of the said agreement, could
not be a life boat in a sinking ship but a lifeless boat in a ship
which never commenced its voyage. 8. Section 16 (1)(b) of the Arbitration Act is an enabling
provision, which, unlike Section 33 of the Arbitration Act,
1940, now permits the Arbitral Tribunal to decide the question
relating to existence of the arbitration clause. The principle of
separability of Arbitration Agreement empowers an Arbitral
Tribunal to rule and decide on its existence, validity or
rescission before delving into adjudication of the questions
referred by the Court. It is his submission that in the case of
A. Ayyasamy -v- A. Paramasivam & Others, reported in
(2016) 10 SCC 386, it is held in paragraph 33 that the
severability of an Arbitration Agreement is a doctrinal
development of crucial significance, for it leaves the
adjudicatory power of the Arbitral Tribunal unaffected over
any objection that the main contract between the parties is
affected by fraud or undue influence. The doctrine of
severability and separability of the arbitration agreement is
only applicable when a determination is required by the
Arbitral Tribunal, save and except where there is already a
prior decision by the High Court quashing the agreement itself
as in the present case. Validity of a contract under Section 7 of
the Act as well as under the provision of the Contract Act is
necessary for operation of such doctrine/concept. A concept
cannot operate in vacuum, where there is no contract at all.
Therefore, the Arbitral Tribunal is required to consider Page 10 of 48 // 11 //

whether the invalidity of the Concession Agreement
(Annexure-1) upon its quashing by this Court makes the
arbitration clause/agreement non-est in the eyes of law. That
having not been considered, the impugned order under
Annexure-7 is not sustainable. He, further challenged the
impugned order under Annexure-7 contending that when the
Arbitral Tribunal accepted the Concession Agreement
(Annexure-1) to have been quashed by this Court holding it to
be void ab initio and unenforceable and it could not have held
that "notwithstanding the fact that the Concession Agreement
is not in existence, the arbitration clause remained
unaffected". He, however, distinguished the applicability of
the case law in National Insurance Company Limited -v-
Boghara Polyfab Private Limited reported in (2009) 1 SCC
267, A. Ayyasamy (supra) and Sasan Power Limited -v-
North American Coal Corporation (India) Private Ltd,
reported in (2016) 10 SCC 813. When it is categorically held
by this Court that the Petitioner had no authority to execute the
agreement dated 16.03.2011 (Annexure-1) and held it to be
violative of Article 299 of the Constitution of India and Section 23 of the Contract Act, the Arbitral Tribunal ought to
have taken note of the same and adjudicated as to whether the
invalidity of the main agreement extends to arbitration clause
or not. Thus, the Arbitral Tribunal has not exercised the
jurisdiction conferred on it while adjudicating the application
under Section 16 of the Arbitration Act. 9. It is contended that the adjudication of the rights and
obligation under the Work Order or the substantive Page 11 of 48 // 12 //

commercial contract would however not proceed before
complying with the mandatory provisions of the Stamp Act . In
the present case, the Concession Agreement being
inadequately stamped, as held by this Court and quashed on
the grounds of non-execution being void ab initio and
unenforceable in the eyes of law, the original agreement
cannot be made available anymore to be stamped and there
cannot be impounding of the copy of the agreement to enforce
the arbitration clause. However, the Opposite Party made a
desperate attempt by alleging in paragraph 23 of the counter
affidavit that Rs.100/- being the adequate stamp on which the
agreement was executed, the arbitration clause is not suffering
from the deficit of stamp duty. Such a contention is not
sustainable as the amount involved being Rs.56.00 crores, the
Arbitration Agreement/clause was required to be stamped
accordingly. As the agreement was insufficiently stamped as
per Article 35(a)(v) read with 23(b) of Schedule 1A (Stamp
Duty on Instruments-Orissa Amendments) of the Stamp Act,
the Arbitration Agreement cannot be given effect to. 10. He, further submitted that in view of the ratio decided
in the case of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited -v-
Emta Coal Limited and Another, reported in 2020 SCC
Online SC 1165, Deep Industries Limited -v- Oil and Natural
Gas Corporation Limited and Another, reported in (2020) 15
SCC 706, a writ petition under Article 227 of the Constitution
of India assailing the order under Section 16 of the Arbitration
Act by the Arbitral Tribunal is maintainable as it is patently
illegal and perverse. He also relied upon the recent judgment Page 12 of 48 // 13 //

passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Bhaven
Construction Through Authorised Signatory Premjibhai K.
Shah -V- Executive Engineer Sardar Sarovar Narmada
Nigam Ltd. and Another reported in 2021 SCC Online SC 8
in which it is held that in rare and exceptional circumstances,
the High Court can interfere with the orders of the Arbitral
Tribunal in exercise of power under Article 227 of the
Constitution of India. The present case being one of 'rare and
exceptional circumstance', this Court has jurisdiction to
entertain the Writ Petition (Civil) under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India. 10.1 Accordingly, he prayed for setting aside the impugned
order under Annexure-7 and to declare that the Arbitration
Tribunal has no jurisdiction to proceed with the arbitration
proceeding. 11. Mr. Thacker, learned counsel for the opposite party
while defending the order under Annexure-7 refuted the
contentions raised by Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior Advocate.
He mainly harped on maintainability of the writ petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India. It was his contention
that the writ petition in the guise of an application under Section 34(2) of the Arbitration Act is not maintainable and
should be dismissed at the threshold. 12. It was his submission that after disposal of PIL the
Opposite Party was informed by the Petitioner that it was still
desirous of implementing the project and was in process of
obtaining legal opinion to challenge the said order under
Annexure-2 or to explore other mechanism for regularizing the Page 13 of 48 // 14 //

defect including ratification of the Concession Agreement.
Despite such assurances, the Petitioner unilaterally terminated
the Concession Agreement under intimation to the Opposite
Party vide letter dated 30.04.2013 (Annexure-5) taking
recourse to the provision of force majeure. In that process, the
Petitioner dishonored the legal relationship established
between the Petitioner and the Opposite Party by issuance of
Letter of Acceptance (LOA) dated 26.07.2010. The Petitioner
also refused to compensate the Opposite Party for no fault of
the later. As such, the Opposite Party had no other option than
to invoke the Arbitration Clause by issuing notice dated
14.03.2016 (Annexure-3). It subsequently filed an application
under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act for appointment of
arbitrators (ARBP No.53 of 2016). The Petitioner contested
the said application under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act
raising an objection that the Concession Agreement under
Annexure-1 being void ab initio due to non-compliance of Article 299 of the Constitution of India, opposed to the public
policy as well as being improperly stamped, the Arbitration
Clause was not enforceable. The Hon'ble Chief Justice,
however, appointed the arbitrators vide its order dated
15.11.2019 (Annexure-3) thereby rejecting the objections
raised by the Petitioner. This Court also did not impound the
Arbitration Agreement on account of alleged insufficiency of
stamp duty. Although the Petitioner assailed the said order
under Annexure-3 before the Hon'ble Supreme Court, in SLP
(C) No.10086 of 2020, the said SLP was dismissed vide order
dated 10.06.2020 (Annexure-4) confirming the order of this
Court. After filing of the statement of claim by the Opposite Page 14 of 48 // 15 //

Party before the Arbitral Tribunal on 05.02.2020 (Annexure- 5), the Petitioner filed an application under Section 16 of the
Arbitration Act raising an issue with regard to the jurisdiction
of the Arbitral Tribunal to arbitrate the dispute. The Opposite
Party has also filed its objection (Annexure-6) to the said
petition. Considering the rival contentions of the parties and
upon hearing the parties at length, the Arbitral Tribunal vide
order dated 11.12.2020 (Annexure-7) rejected the petition
under Section 16 of the Arbitration Act, which is under
challenge in this writ petition. Both the petitions under Section
16 of the Arbitration Act as well as the present writ petition
are outcome of misuse of law. 13. Since efficacious statutory remedy is available to the
Petitioner to challenge the order under Annexure-7, the writ
petition is not maintainable. The Arbitration Act is a complete
Code itself and has provided various procedures and fora for
the redressal of grievances. Section 5 of the Arbitration Act
limits judicial intervention except when provided for in the Arbitration Act . Section 16(5) of the Arbitration Act stipulates
that once a challenge to its jurisdiction is rejected by the
Arbitral Tribunal (like the present one), it can proceed with the
Arbitral proceeding and make an Arbitral award. Section 16(6) of the Arbitration Act is a statutory and efficacious remedy
available to a party aggrieved by the order rejecting a
challenge to the Arbitral Tribunal's jurisdiction, which
provides that an order rejecting a challenge to an Arbitral
Tribunal's jurisdiction, can be made by filing an application
for setting aside the award under Section 34 of the Arbitration Page 15 of 48 // 16 //

Act. Thus, the Petitioner ought to have waited for a final award
from the Arbitral Tribunal to assail the same. In support of his
submission, Mr. Thacker, learned counsel for the Opposite
Party relied upon the case of Bhaven Construction (supra),
wherein at paragraphs 16 and 17, it is held as follows: (emphasis supplied)
He further relied upon the case of SBP and Co. -v- Patel
Engineering Ltd. and Another, reported in (2005) 8 SCC 618,
wherein it has been held as follows:- He further submitted that the present writ petition under Article 227 has been filed in the garb of a petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. It is his submission that in
the present writ petition under Article 227 of the Constitution
of India, the Petitioner has sought for setting aside the
impugned order on the grounds set forth under Sections
34(2)(a)(ii) and 34(b)(i) , explanation 1(ii) and (iii) of the Arbitration Act . Thus, the Petitioner has essentially filed an
application under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act in the garb
of an application under Article 227 of the Constitution. Article
227 of the Constitution of India provides for discretionary
powers of this Court, which ought to be exercised in the
absence of an alternative and efficacious remedy and in Page 18 of 48 // 19 //

exceptional circumstances. The case at hand, does not fall
under the aforesaid category. In the application under Section
16 of the Arbitration Act, the Petitioner has not made out a
case of any mala fide or bad faith on the part of the opposite
party, which would enable the Court to exercise jurisdiction
under Article 227 of the Constitution of India. The said plea
for the first time has been raised before this Court that too in
the rejoinder dated 10.02.2021, which needs no consideration.
No case of patent lack of inherent jurisdiction, i.e., a perversity
being not made out, the case of the Petitioner warrants no
interference under Article 227 of the Constitution. 14. Patent lack of inherent jurisdiction is understood to
mean that the Court could not have seisin of the case because
the subject matter is wholly foreign to its jurisdiction or such
other grounds which could have the effect of rendering the
Court entirely lack of jurisdiction in respect of the subject
matter of the suit or the parties to it. In support of his case, he
relied upon the case of Hira Lal Patni -v- Sri Kali Nath,
reported in (1962) 2 SCR 747. 14.1 He also relied upon the case of Gopinath Deb -v-
Budhia Swain and others, reported in AIR 1983 Ori 31 at
paragraph-9 it is held as follows: 14.2 The ground taken by the Petitioner that the Arbitral
Tribunal had no jurisdiction since the Concession Agreement
has been quashed in the PIL and therefore, the arbitration
clause also perished with it, cannot be termed as patent lack of
inherent jurisdiction as the Arbitration Agreement is separable
from the substantive contract in which it is contained. Even if
the substantive contract is null and void, that does not
automatically render the arbitration agreement as null and
void. Thus, the Arbitral Tribunal has acted well within its
bounds in passing the impugned order taking into
consideration the provision under Section 16(1)(b) of the
Arbitration Act. 15. The argument of the Petitioner that the principle of
separability does not save the Arbitration Clause when a party
alleges that the main agreement was executed by a person with
no authority, is factually incorrect as the Arbitration Clause
was signed by the person having due authority to bind the
Petitioner. An Arbitration Clause does not require
execution/signature as long as parties are consensus ad idem Page 20 of 48 // 21 //

regarding the same. Even if the signatory did not have
authority to execute the Concession Agreement that does not
ipso facto disentitle him to enter into an Arbitration
Agreement. Thus, the arbitration agreement clause remains
unaffected. 16. Assuming though not conceding that if this Court takes
a view that the arbitration clause is improperly stamped, the
remedy would be to impound the document and not to declare
the Arbitral proceedings a nullity. Thus, no patent lack of
inherent jurisdiction exists, as alleged. 17. In addition to the above, the argument of learned
counsel for the Petitioner to the effect that the impugned order
is perverse as it is unreasonable, which is evident from the
order itself, is not correct. The learned Arbitral Tribunal after
hearing the parties, passed the impugned order referring to the
arguments and principle of law involved in it and came to a
conclusion. Thus, there is no patent lack of inherent
jurisdiction for this Court to exercise its power under Article
227 of the Constitution of India. In the case of Emta Coal Ltd.
(supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court at paragraph-4 laid down
the following principle:- Thus, this Court should only interfere when the perversity
stares on the face of the impugned order and no argument is Page 21 of 48 // 22 //

required to be advanced to establish such perversity, which
constitutes patent lack of inherent jurisdiction. In the case at
hand, the Petitioner in order to challenge the impugned order
has advanced a lengthy argument on its merits and has also
relied upon several case laws. Thus, it has miserably failed to
establish its case on the parameters set out by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in Emta Coal Ltd. (supra). Thus, Mr. Thacker,
learned counsel for the Opposite Party urged before this Court
that before delving into judicial review of the impugned order
the issue of maintainability of the petition is to be decided on
the touch stone of established parameters as laid down by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in Bhaven Construction (supra),
Deep Industries (supra)and Emta Coal Ltd. (supra). 18. In addition to the issue of maintainability,
Mr. Thacker, learned counsel for the Opposite Party defended
the impugned order also on its merit. 19. It is his submission that the order passed in PIL does
not render any finding regarding validity of the arbitration
clause, which is admittedly an agreement separate from
Concession Agreement. A conspectus of the pleadings of the
PIL and final order dated 20.12.2012, it can very well be
inferred that no issue with regard to validity of the arbitration
clause was raised in the PIL. The validity of the arbitration
clause was also not the subject matter in dispute in the said
writ petition. Thus, the arbitration clause/agreement which is
admittedly a separate agreement and independent of
Concession Agreement can be in no manner rendered invalid
and/or not enforceable because of the finding in order dated Page 22 of 48 // 23 //

20.12.2021. In order to elaborate the position of law on
separability of the arbitration agreement, Mr. Thacker, learned
counsel for the Opposite Party submitted that Section 7 of the
Arbitration Act defines an arbitration agreement. It provides
that an arbitration agreement is required to be in writing.
However, it is settled law that the arbitration agreement need
not be signed. It is the requirement of an arbitration agreement
to be in writing that distinguishes it from an oral contract,
which (in addition to a written contract) is also permitted
under the Contract Act . Further, Section 7 provides for
arbitration of disputes in respect of defined legal relationship
'whether contractual or not'. Under the principle of kompetenz
kompetenz, which is recognized under the Indian law, the
Arbitration Clause is an agreement independent and separate
from the Concession Agreement, as would be evident from the Section 16(1)(a) of the Arbitration Act. Section 16(1)(b) of the
Arbitration Act provides that a decision to the effect that the
Concession Agreement is only null and void shall not entail
ipso jure, the invalidity of the arbitration clause. Thus,
quashing of the Concession Agreement in the PIL rendering it
to be void ab initio and opposed to public policy is to be read
in the light of Section 16(1)(b) of the Arbitration Act and thus
does not render the arbitration clause invalid and
unenforceable. Distinguishing the ratio decided in Kishorilal
Gupta (supra), Mr. Thacker, learned counsel submitted that
the ratio laid down therein was by interpreting the provisions
of the Arbitration Act 1940, which did not have any provision
akin to Section 16(1)(b) of the Arbitration Act. Thus, the ratio
decided in Boghara Polyfab Private Limited (supra) is Page 23 of 48 // 24 //

squarely applicable to the case at hand. In support of his case,
with regard to the separability of the arbitration clause from
the Concession Agreement, Mr. Thacker, learned counsel
relied upon the case of M/s. N.N. Global Mercantile Private
Limited (supra), Boghara Polyfab Private Limited (supra)
and SMS Tea Estates Private Limited -v- Chandmari Tea
Company Private Limited, reported in (2011) 14 SCC 66, A.
Ayyasamy (supra), Sasan Power Limited (supra) and Fili
Shipping Co. Limited (supra). Thus, he submitted that an
arbitration clause is separable from the substantive agreement
although it forms part of it and remains unaffected albeit
quashing of Concession Agreement. 20. He further submitted that parties were in consensus ad
idem regarding the Arbitration Clause and the Arbitration
Clause also satisfies the requirements of the Arbitration Act .
Elaborating his submission, Mr. Thacker, learned counsel for
the Opposite Party, submitted that the Arbitration Clause as in
the Concession Agreement was available in RFP issued by the
Petitioner and it was accepted by the Opposite Party without
any negotiation. The Arbitration Clause does not necessarily
have to be signed. Assuming though not conceding that the
Arbitration Clause was required to be signed, it does not require
the signature as per Article 299 of the Constitution of India.
Hence, signing the agreement by the General Manager, (Admn.)
OSRTC on behalf of the Petitioner does satisfy the requirement
of signing the arbitration agreement. The requirements of Contract Act are satisfied in respect of the Arbitration Clause,
inasmuch as there was offer, unconditional acceptance, Page 24 of 48 // 25 //

consensus ad idem, valid and lawful consideration, valid and
lawful object etc. The only additional requirement under Section 7 of the Arbitration Act is that the agreement should be
in writing which is also satisfied/accepted. The Petitioner
claims that the Arbitration Clause was not signed by a person
duly authorized in this regard, which is factually incorrect. An
arbitration agreement need not be signed to be binding on the
party as held in the case of Govind Rubber Limited -v- Louis
Dreyfus Commodities Asia Private Limited, reported in (2015)
13 SCC 477, wherein it is held as follows: Similarly, Russell on Arbitration (21st Edn.) opined,
 relying on Astro Vencedor Compania Naviera
 S.A. v. Mabanaft GmbH [(1970) 2 Lloyd's Rep 267],
 that the court should, if the circumstances allow, lean
 in favour of giving effect to the arbitration clause to
 which the parties have agreed. The learned author has
 also referred to another judgment in Paul Smith
 Ltd. v. H and S International Holdings Inc. [(1991) 2
 Lloyd's Rep 127] in order to emphasise that in
 construing an arbitration agreement the court should
 seek to "give effect to the intentions of the parties".
 (See p. 28 of the book.)" 20.1 Thus, the argument raised by learned counsel for the
Petitioner is fallacious. Although the Concession Agreement is
held to be in violation of Article 299 of Constitution, public
policy as well as Section 23 of the Contract Act, the same does
not affect the arbitration agreement at all. 21. So far as the contentions with regard to adequacy of
stamp duty on the arbitration agreement is concerned, it is
submitted by Mr. Thacker, learned counsel for the Opposite
Party that the Stamp Act (Orissa Amendment) does not
provide for payment of stamp duty on an arbitration
agreement. The said issue was also raised in the petition under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act. The law, as it then was,
enjoined upon this Court to impound the agreement, if it found
the same to be insufficiently stamped. This Court being
satisfied with the objection raised by the Opposite Party
although granted liberty to the Petitioner to raise all issues
before the Arbitral Tribunal, but proceeded to appoint the
arbitrators without impounding the arbitration agreement.
Thus, this Court while appointing arbitrators was satisfied that
the arbitration agreement did not require impounding. Mr. Page 26 of 48 // 27 //

Thacker, learned counsel for the Opposite Party also relied
upon the case of N.N. Global Mercantile Private Limited
(supra) wherein it has been held as follows:- We hold that since the arbitration agreement is an
independent agreement between the parties, and is not
chargeable to payment of stamp duty, the non-payment
of stamp duty on the commercial contract, would not
invalidate the arbitration clause, or render it un-
enforceable, since it has an independent existence of its
own. The view taken by the Court on the issue of
separability of the arbitration clause on the registration
of the substantive contract, ought to have been followed
even with respect to the Stamp Act . The non-payment of
stamp duty on the substantive contract would not
invalidate even the main contract. It is a deficiency
which is curable on the payment of the requisite Stamp
Duty. 6.9 The second issue in SMS Tea Estates that
avoidable contract would not be arbitrable as it affects
the validity of the arbitration agreement, is in our view
not the correct position in law. The allegations made by
a party that the substantive contract has been obtained
by coercion, fraud, or misrepresentation has to be
proved by leading evidence on the issue. These issues
can certainly be adjudicated through arbitration. We
overrule the judgment in SMS Tea Estates with respect
to the aforesaid two issues as not laying down the
correct position in law. 6.10 The Garware judgment has followed the judgment
in SMS Tea Estates. The Counsel for the Appellant has
placed reliance on paragraph 22 of the judgment to
contend that the arbitration clause would be non-
existent in law, and unenforceable, till Stamp Duty is
adjudicated and paid on the substantive contract.
We hold that this finding is erroneous, and does not lay
down the correct position in law. We have already held
that an arbitration agreement is distinct and
independent from the underlying substantive Page 28 of 48 // 29 //

 commercial contract. Once the arbitration agreement is
 held to have an independent existence, it can be acted
 upon, irrespective of the alleged invalidity of the
 commercial contract. 6.11 We notice that the judgment in Garware Wall
 Ropes Limited has been cited with approval by a co-
 ordinate bench of this Court in Vidya Drolia & Ors. v.
 Durga Trading Corporation . (Delivered on 14.12.2020
 in C.A. No. 2402/2019.) Paragraph 92 of the judgment
 reads thus: xxx xxx xxx

 6.12 We doubt the correctness of the view taken in
 paragraph 92 of the three-judge bench in Vidya Drolia.
 We consider it appropriate to refer the findings in
 paras 22 and 29 of Garware Wall Ropes Limited,
 which has been affirmed in paragraph 92 of Vidya
 Drolia, to a Constitution Bench of five judges." 22. It is further submitted that the Concession Agreement
was executed on an Indian non-judicial stamp paper of
Rs.100/- value. Thus, for the sake of argument, if it is held that
the arbitration agreement is chargeable with stamp duty, then it
can be said that sufficient stamp duty has been paid on the
Arbitration Agreement itself. 23. In that view of the matter, learned counsel for the
Opposite Party contended that the writ petition having failed
both on the count of maintainability as well as merit is liable to
be dismissed. 24. Taking into consideration the rival contentions of the
parties, following questions are required to be considered in
this writ petition. (i) Whether the writ petition under Article 227 is maintainable? (ii) Whether in view of the judgment dated
 20.12.2012 (Annexure-2) in the PIL the Page 29 of 48 // 30 //

 arbitration clause/agreement which forms
 part of Concession Agreement (Annexure-1),
 perishes with it? (iii) Whether the arbitration agreement/clause is
 chargeable with stamp duty and if so
 whether sufficient stamp duty has been
 paid? 24.1 Although Mr. Thacker, learned counsel for the
Opposite Party submitted that the issue of maintainability of
this petition is to be decided at the threshold before
considering the merits of the case, this Court in order to avoid
piecemeal adjudication of this writ petition feels it proper to
consider all the issues one after another. QUESTION NO. (ii) ; 25. Taking into consideration the facts and circumstances
of this case Issue No. (ii) is taken up first for adjudication. 26. Chapter-II of the Arbitration Act deals with
'arbitration agreement'. Section 7 describes that an agreement
which enables the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain
disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them
in respect of a defined 'legal relationship', whether
contractual or not, is called an arbitration agreement. Sub-
section (2) of Section 7 prescribes that an arbitration
agreement may be in the form of an arbitration clause in a
contract or in the form of a separate agreement. In the case at
hand, there is no separate arbitration agreement, but Clause-16
of the Concession Agreement contains the provision of
arbitration. Sub-section (3) of Section 7 provides that an
arbitration agreement shall be in writing. Sub-section (4) Page 30 of 48 // 31 //

further makes it clear that an agreement shall be treated to be
in writing if it is contained in a document signed by the parties
or an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of
telecommunication, including communication through
electronic means which provides a record of the agreement.
Thus, in all cases, an arbitration agreement need not be signed
separately, if it otherwise satisfies the Clause (b) of Section
7(4) of the Arbitration Act. 27. Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the
Petitioner placed much stress on the signing of the arbitration
agreement. It is his contention that since the Concession
Agreement has been declared to be null and void and it is held
that the Petitioner, namely, General Manager, OSRTC, had no
authority to sign the Concession Agreement, it cannot be said
that the arbitration agreement was signed by the parties. 28. On 14.12.2009, the Petitioner published a notice
informing about issuance of RFP and inviting tender from the
reputed Infrastructure Developers for development of
Baramunda Bus Terminal, Bhubaneswar along with
commercial facilities through PPP mode. The Opposite Party,
namely, ARSS Infra, being the successful bidder, Letter of
Acceptance (LoA) was issued by the Petitioner in its favour on
26.07.2010. Thus, a legal relationship between the Petitioner
and ARSS Infra was created. Consequently, the Concession
Agreement between them was executed on 16.03.2011
containing the arbitration clause/agreement. Subsequently,
vide judgment in PIL, observing that the General Manager,
OSRTC was not authorized under law to execute such Page 31 of 48 // 32 //

agreement and transferring the interest over the Government
property in favour of a third party as envisaged under Article
299 of the Constitution, came to a conclusion that the
concessionaire cannot have any right or interest over the land
in question on the basis of the said void agreement and any
right over the land in question on the basis of the said
agreement is opposed to the public policy as provided under Section 23 of the Contract Act. Accordingly, the Concession
Agreement dated 16.03.2011 was quashed. 29. An arbitration agreement though forms part of a
substantive contract has its separate legal entity. There cannot
be any quarrel over the position of law on it. As held in
Boghara Polyfab Private Limited (supra), A.Ayyasamy
(supra), Sasan Power Ltd. (supra), Fili Shipping Co. Limited
(supra) as well as M/s. N.N. Global Mercantile Private
Limited (supra), it is made clear that the arbitration
clause/agreement even forms part of a substantive contract
does not automatically perish with the substantive contract
itself. In Fili Shipping Co. Limited (supra), it is held in no
ambiguous terms that the principle of separability enacted in Section 7 means that the invalidity or rescission of the main
contract does not necessarily entail the invalidity or rescission
of the arbitration agreement. The arbitration agreement must
be treated as a "distinct agreement" and can be void or
voidable only on grounds which relate directly to the
arbitration agreement. Thus, the matter is to be examined
accordingly, keeping the aforesaid position of law in mind. // 33 // 30. The judgment in PIL (Annexure-2) does not spell out a
single word with regard to validity of the arbitration
clause/agreement. It is contended by the Petitioner that when
it is held that the General Manager, OSRTC had no authority
to sign the Concession Agreement, it can be said that the
arbitration agreement was not signed. Thus, it is hit by Section
7(4)(a) of the Arbitration Act. Signing of the Concession
Agreement under Annexure-1 was held to be unauthorized as
it did not qualify the requirements of Article 299 of the
Constitution, but that is not so in the case of arbitration
agreement. It was well within the authority of the General
Manager, OSRTC-Petitioner to sign an arbitration agreement
with ARSS Infra. It is not the case of the Petitioner that
arbitration clause/agreement was never signed by the
Petitioner, but it was his submission that on quashing of the
main agreement for non-execution and no authority to execute
the agreement, the signing of the Concession Agreement as
well as arbitration agreement gets wiped off. In view of the
discussions made above, it is very difficult to accept the same
more particularly in absence of any contention/argument to the
effect that the General Manager, OSRTC had no authority to
sign an arbitration agreement with ARSS Infra. Further, Section 7(4)(b) of the Arbitration Act makes it clear that when
parties were consensus ad idem regarding arbitration clause
and the arbitration clause was available in the RFP issued by
the Petitioner, which was accepted by the Opposite Party
without any negotiation, signing of the arbitration agreement
becomes insignificant and is not required under law. In view Page 33 of 48 // 34 //

of the above, the contention raised by Mr. Mohanty, learned
Senior Advocate sans merit. 31. Relying upon the decision in the case of Fili Shipping
Co. Limited (supra), Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior Advocate
submitted that if a party alleges that someone who purported to
sign as agent on behalf the principal had no authority
whatsoever to conclude any agreement on his behalf, it is an
attack both on the main agreement and the arbitration
agreement. It is further argued that it would have to be shown
that whatever the terms of the main agreement or the reasons
for which the agent concluded it, he would have/had no
authority to enter into an arbitration agreement. He also relied
upon the decision in the case of M/s. N.N. Global Mercantile
Private Limited (supra) and submitted that if an arbitration
agreement is not valid or non-existent, the Arbitral Tribunal
cannot assume jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the disputes. 32. As discussed above, there is no material on record to
show that the Petitioner had no authority to sign an arbitration
agreement with ARSS Infra which is separate from the
substantive agreement/concession agreement. In the case of
Fili Shipping Co. Limited (supra), the Principal had raised an
objection with regard to authority of the agent to sign the
substantive as well as arbitration agreement. It was done by
practising fraud, which is not the case here. Thus, the aforesaid
observation in Fili Shipping Co. Limited (supra) is
distinguishable from the case at hand. Further, the law laid
down in M/s. N.N. Global Mercantile Private Limited (supra)
is also not applicable to the case at hand as it cannot be said Page 34 of 48 // 35 //

that the arbitration clause is not valid or non-existent in
absence of any material in support of the same. 33. An argument is advanced on behalf of the Petitioner
that the arbitration agreement must satisfy the provisions of the Contract Act , namely, Section 2(g) , Section 2(j) , Section 10 and Section 23 of the Contract Act. Relying upon the decision
in the case of Vidya Drolia (supra), Mr. Mohanty, learned
Senior Advocate submitted that 'agreement' is not defined in
the Arbitration Act . However, it is defined in Section 10 of the
Contract Act. The arbitration agreement must satisfy the
objective mandates of the law of contract for being enforced
under law. Clauses (g) and (h) of Section 2 of the Contract Act
prescribe that an agreement not enforceable by law is void and
an agreement enforceable by law is a contract. There is,
however, no material on record save and except the argument
on behalf of the Petitioner that the arbitration agreement
perishes with the concession agreement itself, as it does not
qualify the aforesaid provisions of the Contract Act . Although
it is held in the judgment in PIL that the concession agreement
is void ab initio and it is opposed to the public policy of Section 23 of the Contract Act, but there is nothing on record
to show that the arbitration clause is void ab initio in view of
the said observation of this Court. 34. Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior Advocate further relying
upon the decision in the case of Swiss Timing Limited (supra)
submitted that undoubtedly, in cases, where the Court comes
to a conclusion that the contract is void without receiving any
evidence, it would be justified in declining reference to Page 35 of 48 // 36 //

arbitration but such cases would be few and isolated. He
further relied upon the decision in the case of Uttarakhand
Purv Sainik (supra) and submitted that the Law Commission
in the 246th Report recommended that the scope of the judicial
intervention is only restricted to situations where the
Court/Judicial Authority finds that the arbitration agreement
does not exist or is null and void. If the judicial authority is of
the opinion that prima facie the arbitration agreement exists,
then it shall refer the dispute to arbitration and leave the
existence of the arbitration agreement to be finally determined
by the Arbitral Tribunal. Although it is vehemently argued by
Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior Counsel, that arbitration
clause/agreement perishes with the concession agreement
itself, but no material is placed to persuade the Court to accept
such contention. Taking into consideration the ratio decided in
the cases of Swiss Timing Limited (supra) and Uttarakhand
Purv Sainik (supra), it can be safely said that when the matter
has been referred to the Arbitration Tribunal by this Court in
exercise of power under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, it
can be safely said that prima facie the arbitration agreement
exists. So far as validity of the agreement is concerned, it can
only be finally determined by the Arbitral Tribunal after
receiving evidence to that effect. Thus, it will be unsafe at this
stage to hold that the arbitration agreement does not exist. 35. Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior Advocate relying upon
the decisions in the cases of Kishorilal Gupta (supra) and
Jaikishan Dass Mull (supra) submitted that when the
arbitration clause forms an integral part of the concession Page 36 of 48 // 37 //

agreement, it perishes along with the main agreement. In the
instant case, the arbitration agreement being an integral part of
the concession agreement, the former has no existence de hors
the main agreement. Even if the arbitration agreement is a
separate agreement notionally the existence of the main
agreement is a pre-condition for operation of the arbitration
clause. If the contract is non-est in the sense that it never came
legally into existence or void ab initio (being quashed by this
Court in PIL), the arbitration agreement perishes with the main
contract dated 16.03.2011. 36. Relying upon the principle of 'ex nihilo nil fit',
Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior Advocate submitted that if a
contract is illegal and void, an arbitration clause which forms
part thereof must also perish along with it. When the whole
perishes, its parts must also perish. Thus, it must be held that
when a contract is invalid, every part of it including the
arbitration clause contained therein, must also be invalid. 37. Mr. Thacker, learned counsel for the Opposite Party
refuting such submission contended that Kishorilal Gupta
(supra) does not discuss any provision akin to Section 16
(1)(b) of the Arbitration Act. Thus, in view of the introduction
of Section 16 (1)(a) of the Arbitration Act, the position of law
has altogether changed and the ratio therein has no application
to the case at hand. In reply, Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior
Advocate contended that language employed in Section 16 is
only an enabling one which unlike Section 33 of the Old Act,
1940, now permits the Arbitral Tribunal to decide a question
relating to the 'existence' of the arbitration clause. // 38 // 38. In view of the discussions made above, Section 16
(1)(a) of the Arbitration Act as well as the ratio decided in A.
Ayyasamy (supra), the severability of the arbitration
agreement has become a doctrinal development of crucial
significance. The principle of kompetenz kompetenz which is
recognised under Indian law leaves the adjudicatory power of
the Arbitral Tribunal unaffected over any objection with
regard to validity of the arbitration agreement even if the main
contract between the parties is affected by fraud, undue
influence or otherwise. Although Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior
Advocate contended that severability and separability of the
arbitration agreement can be gone into by the Arbitral
Tribunal, but, in the instant case, when there is already a prior
decision of this Court quashing the main agreement, it is no
more open to the Arbitral Tribunal to delve into such
determination. Although the argument appears to be flowery it
has no legal basis at all in view of the discussions made above.
Thus, even if the main contract has been declared as null and
void due to lack of authority of the Petitioner to execute the
same, it is still within the domain of the Arbitral Tribunal to
delve into validity of the arbitration agreement. 39. It is next contended by Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior
Advocate that the learned Tribunal without any discussion
recorded the impugned finding that 'notwithstanding' the fact
that the concession agreement has been declared null and void,
the arbitration clause/agreement subsists and on such
misconception proceeded to pass the impugned order. As such,
the impugned finding is perverse and a non-speaking one. // 39 // 40. Mr. Thacker, learned counsel for the Opposite party, on
the other hand, submitted that before recording the finding, as
aforesaid, learned Tribunal has discussed the rival contentions
of the parties and case laws cited. On scrutiny of the same, it
came to the aforesaid conclusion. Thus, the contention of Mr.
Mohanty, learned Senior Advocate is not sustainable. 41. While passing the judgment in PIL, this Court has not
rendered any finding with regard to validity or otherwise of the
arbitration clause contained in concession agreement. The
concession agreement was declared null and void as it was in
contravention of Article 299 of the Constitution and it was also
held therein that the concessionaire cannot have any right or
interest over the 'land in question' on the basis of the said void
document, which is opposed to public policy as provided
under Section 23 of the Contract Act. Thus, the order passed in
PIL only speaks of validity of the concession agreement. In
view of the Section 16(1)(a) of the Arbitration Act, which
recognized the doctrine of kompetenz kompetenz, the
arbitration clause becomes an independent agreement separate
from the concession agreement. The said principle applies with
full force to the case at hand. As discussed above, although
Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior Advocate raised an argument
that the General Manager, OSRTC (Petitioner) had no
authority to execute the arbitration agreement, but in view of
the discussions made above, the same is not sustainable. 42. On perusal of the impugned order, it appears that
learned Tribunal has discussed the matter in detail and
recorded the aforesaid impugned finding. As such, the Page 39 of 48 // 40 //

contentions of Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior Advocate cannot
be accepted. As such, this issue is answered accordingly
against the Petitioner. QUESTION NO.(iii); 43. Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior Advocate, vehemently
argued that the arbitration clause is not enforceable in law due
to non-payment of stamp duty. He referred to the case law in N
M/s. N.N. Global Mercantile Private Limited (supra) in which
it is held that non-payment or deficient stamp duty on the work
order does not invalidate the main contract. Section 34 of the
Contract Act provides that an unstamped instrument would not
be admissible in evidence or acted upon, till the requisite
stamp duty is paid. This would amount only to a deficiency,
which can be cured on payment of the requisite stamp duty. He
further relied upon the case law in Garware Wall Ropes Ltd.
Vs. Coastal Marine Constructions and Engineering Limited ,
reported in (2019) 9 SCC 209, in which it is held that a High
Court must impound the instrument which did not bear the
requisite stamp duty. As soon as the stamp and penalty is paid
on the instrument, any of the parties can bring the instrument
to the notice of the High Court, which will then proceed to
expeditiously dispose of the Section 11 application. He thus,
contended that till the requisite stamp duty is paid on the
arbitration agreement, the same cannot be given effect to.
However, the concession agreement in the instant case has
been declared null and void on the ground of non-execution
and it was declared void ab initio and unenforceable by this
Court. When the original agreement is no more available to be Page 40 of 48 // 41 //

stamped as per the provisions of Stamp Act , the arbitration
agreement cannot be impounded. However, the opposite party
has stated in paragraph No.23 of its counter affidavit that
Rs.100/- being the adequate stamp on which the agreement
was executed, it is not suffering from the deficit stamp duty.
The said contention of the opposite party is not correct, as the
consideration amount is Rs.56.00 crores. As per Clause 1.1
(xviii) of the agreement, it was required to be stamped with a
higher amount, failing which the arbitration proceeding is
liable to be dismissed. He also referred to Article 35 (a)(v) read with Article 23(b) of the Indian Stamp Act and submitted
that the arbitration agreement is insufficiently stamped. He,
therefore, submitted that the arbitration proceeding should be
dismissed in view of ratio decided in the case of Dharmaratnakara Rai Bahadur Arcot Narainswamy
Mudaliar Chattram and Other Charities and Others vs.
Bhaskar Raju And Brothers and Others , reported in (2020) 4
SCC 612. 44. Mr. Thacker, learned counsel for the Opposite Party,
on the other hand, refuting such contention of Mr. Mohanty,
learned Senior Advocate contended that the arbitration
agreement is not required to be stamped as per the provisions
of the Stamp Act (Orissa Amendment). Article 35(a)(v) of the Stamp Act is not applicable to the case at hand. As such, the
contention of Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior Advocate is not
sustainable. He further submitted that such a plea was raised
by the Petitioner before this Court in the proceeding under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act as well as before the Hon'ble Page 41 of 48 // 42 //

Supreme Court. Having considered the same, this Court acted
upon the arbitration clause and proceeded to appoint the
arbitrators without asking for impounding of the agreement. In
view of the above, it is deemed that such a contention of the
Petitioner has been overruled by this Court as well as the
Hon'ble Supreme Court. Hence, he prayed for answering this
issue in favour of the Opposite Party. 45. Although lengthy argument was made by
Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior Advocate stating that the
arbitration clause/agreement has been insufficiently stamped,
but he could not show the specific provisions which requires the
arbitration clause/agreement to be stamped separately when it is
a part of the concession agreement. He also failed to satisfy this
Court as to whether a stamp duty of Rs.100/-paid on the
concession agreement is not adequate stamp duty for the
arbitration agreement. As held in the case of M/s. N.N. Global
Mercantile Private Limited (supra) and Garware Wall Ropes (supra), this Court, while adjudicating the petition under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, should examine issue of
sufficiency of stamp duty to be paid on the arbitration
agreement and only after payment of adequate stamp duty, if
any, should proceed to hear and dispose of application under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act. As it is evident from the order
passed by this Court on the application under Section 11 , a
contention in that regard was raised by learned counsel for the
Petitioner before this Court at the time of adjudication of
petition under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act. However,
without recording any finding on the sufficiency of stamp duty, Page 42 of 48 // 43 //

this Court proceeded to appoint arbitrators, which implies that
the contention raised by learned counsel for the petitioner
therein was overruled. Although such a contention was also
raised before the Hon'ble Supreme Court, the SLP was
dismissed granting liberty to the petitioner to raise all objections
before the Arbitral Tribunal. Sufficiency of stamp duty being an
issue to be decided before final adjudication of the petition
under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, it is presumed to have
been overruled while appointing arbitrators and giving finality
to the said petition. Be that as it may, Mr. Mohanty, learned
Senior Advocate having failed to show any specific provision
requiring an arbitration agreement to be stamped under the Stamp Act when it forms part of the concession agreement,
such an objection merits no consideration. As such, the issue is
answered against the Petitioner. ISSUE NO.(i); 46. Lengthy arguments were advanced by learned counsel
for the parties with regard to maintainability of the writ
petition before this Court under Articles 226 and 227 of the
Constitution of India as against an order passed under Section
16(2) of the Arbitration Act. Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior
Advocate relying upon Emta Coal Ltd. (supra) and Deep
Industries Limited (supra) contended that order of an Arbitral
Tribunal can be challenged under Article 227 of the
Constitution, if the order is patently illegal and perverse. He
also relied upon a recent decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court
in the case of Bhaven Construction (supra) and submitted that
in rare and exceptional circumstances, the High Court can Page 43 of 48 // 44 //

interfere with an order of the Arbitral Tribunal in exercise of
power under Article 227 of the Constitution. It is his
contention that the present case falls under the category of
'rare and exceptional circumstances' because Arbitral
Tribunal did not at all consider the purport and consequence of
order passed in PIL, wherein this Court in exercise of power
under Article 226 of the Constitution in a matter inter-parties,
has quashed the agreement dated 16.03.2011 which contained
the arbitration clause/agreement albeit the Arbitral Tribunal
proceeded to hold the arbitration clause/agreement to be valid.
It is his contention that in view of the argument laid by the
Petitioner as aforesaid, the Arbitral Tribunal has no
jurisdiction to proceed with the arbitration proceeding in view
of the fact that the arbitration clause/agreement, which was a
part of concession agreement, has been declared void ab initio. 47. On the other hand, Mr. Thacker, learned counsel
contended that the writ petition under Article 227 of the
Constitution has been filed in the garb of a petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. Referring to the opening
paragraph-1 of the writ petition, Mr. Thacker, submitted that
all the grounds taken in the writ petition, more particularly,
paragraph-1.9 (G), (I), (J) and (K) spelt out the grounds under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. Article 227 provides for a
discretionary power to this Court, which ought to be exercised
in absence of alternative and efficacious remedy and in
exceptional circumstances. In this case, the Petitioner being
armed with an efficacious statutory remedy under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, can challenge the impugned order along Page 44 of 48 // 45 //

with the arbitration award itself under the said provision.
Nowhere in the petition under Section 16 of the Arbitration
Act, the Petitioner had raised the plea of mala fide or bad faith
on the part of the Opposite Party, under which it could have
taken shelter to move this Court to exercise its jurisdiction
under Article 227 of the Constitution. Such a plea is taken by
the Petitioner before this Court for the first time that too in the
rejoinder filed on 10th February, 2021. As held in the case of
Bhaven Construction (supra) and Deep Industries Limited
(supra), patent lack of jurisdiction is understood to mean that
the Court could not have seisin of the case because the subject
matter was wholly foreign to its jurisdiction or on some other
grounds which could have the effect of rendering the Court
entirely lacking the jurisdiction in respect of subject matter of
the case between the parties. The ground that learned Tribunal
has no jurisdiction to proceed with the arbitration as the
concession agreement was quashed by this Court and
therefore, the arbitration agreement perished with it, cannot be
termed as patent lack of inherent jurisdiction as the arbitration
agreement is separable from the substantive contract. Even if
the substantive contract is declared null and void, that does not
automatically render the arbitration agreement void ab initio. It
is all the more apparent from the provision under Section 16
(1)(b) of the Arbitration Act. He also relied upon the case law
in Emta Coal Limited (supra), wherein it has been laid down
that "foray to the Writ Court from a Section 16 application
being dismissed by the Arbitrator can only be, if the order
passed is so perverse; that the only possible conclusion is that
there is a patent lack of inherent jurisdiction", this Court can Page 45 of 48 // 46 //

exercise its jurisdiction under Article 227 of Constitution
because "a patent lack of inherent jurisdiction requires no
argument whatsoever-it must be the perversity of the order
that must stare one in the face." 48. He, therefore, argued that in the case at hand, learned
counsel for the parties made lengthy argument to establish
their respective cases. Thus, by no stretch of imagination, it
can be said to be an order suffering from patent lack of
inherent jurisdiction. He further reiterated the argument that
there is no final order regarding validity of the arbitration
clause/agreement in the order passed in the PIL. Hence, he
contended that the writ petition under Article 227 of the
Constitution is not maintainable. 49. The Petitioner initially filed CMP No.690 of 2020
under Article 227 of the Constitution assailing the impugned
order. But, in view of the order of this Court dated 19.01.2021,
this Court taking into consideration the provision under Rule 5
of Chapter XV of Orissa High Court Rules, 1948, directed the
Registry to register the instant petition as W.P.(C).
Accordingly, it is so registered. 50. On perusal of the pleadings of the writ petition, it
appears that the Petitioner has assailed the impugned order on
the grounds prescribed under Section 34(2) of the Arbitration
Act. It further appears that the plea of mala fide and bad faith
was never raised either before the Tribunal or in the writ
petition. It was only raised in the rejoinder affidavit filed by
the Petitioner. Thus, such grounds having not raised before the
Arbitral Tribunal cannot be taken into consideration in a Page 46 of 48 // 47 //

proceeding under Article 227 of the Constitution. Moreover, in
view of the case law cited above, this Court can only interfere
with the impugned order passed under Section 16 (1)(b) of the
Arbitration Act in exercise of power under Article 227 of the
Constitution in a rare and exceptional circumstance. All the
grounds raised by Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior Advocate
squarely fall under the provision of Section 34(2) of the
Arbitration Act. No exceptional circumstance has been shown
by the Petitioner to warrant interference in this writ petition. It
further appears that in view of the ratio in the case of Emta
Coal Ltd. (supra), a petition under Article 227 of the
Constitution would be maintainable only when the impugned
order suffers from a patent lack of inherent jurisdiction, which
requires no argument whatsoever to be declared so. The
perversity of the order must stare on its face. When lengthy
arguments were made in challenging the impugned order, it
cannot be said that the impugned order suffers from patent lack
of inherent jurisdiction of learned Tribunal. 51. Entertaining an application under Article 227 of the
Constitution at this stage will also result in piecemeal trial of
the arbitration proceeding, which is deprecated by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court time and again. Further, all the arguments
raised by the Petitioner could have been raised in a petition
under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act after finality of the
arbitration proceeding. Law is well- settled as stated above that
when an alternative and efficacious remedy is available to the
Petitioner, the writ petition should not be entertained which Page 47 of 48 // 48 //

 would impliedly circumvent the efficacious statutory provision
 made in the Arbitration Act itself. 52. In view of the above, I have no hesitation to hold that
 the writ petition is under Article 227 of the Constitution is not
 maintainable and the issue is answered accordingly. CONCLUSION 53. In view of the discussions made above, I find no
 infirmity in view of the impugned order under Annexure-7.
 Thus, the writ petition being devoid of any merit and the same
 being not maintainable in the eyes of law, is dismissed; but in
 the circumstances, there shall be no order as to costs. (K.R. Mohapatra)
 Judge

s.s.satapathy Page 48 of 48