C.S.No.339 of 1999 is a suit filed by an individual for redemption of a simple mortgage dated 31.7.1995 created by a partnership firm by name M/s.Ramu & Co., which is the third defendant in the suit, in favour of the Egmore Benefit Society Ltd., which is the first defendant in the suit and for various other reliefs. 2. C.S.No.995 of 1999 is a suit filed by the mortgagor, which is a partnership firm by name M/s.Ramu & Co., seeking a declaration that there was no concluded contract of sale between the mortgagee viz., the Egmore Benefit Society Ltd., which is the second defendant in the suit and the auction purchaser, who is the first defendant in the suit. 3. C.S.No.551 of 2001 is a suit filed by the partnership firm (mortgagor) for redemption of simple mortgage dated 31.7.1995 created by the plaintiff firm in favour of the first defendant viz., the Egmore Benefit Society Ltd., and for other reliefs. 4. Tr.C.S.No.2 of 2003 and Tr.C.S.No.3 of 2003 are suits filed by the erstwhile partners of the mortgagor firm, for declaration that the mortgage created by the partnership firm viz., Ramu & Co., in favour of the Egmore Benefit Society Ltd., is null and void and for a consequential declaration that the auction sale conducted by the mortgagee on 13.12.1999 also is null and void. 5. In effect, there are actually two suits for redemption of mortgage, one filed by an individual who ceased to be a partner of the mortgagor firm and another filed by the mortgagor firm itself. There is one suit by the mortgagor firm for declaring the auction sale already held, to be null and void. The other two suits are by the erstwhile partners of the firm (mortgagor), seeking a declaration that the very creation of the mortgage by the firm, was null and void. 6. Since two suits are by the borrower partnership firm and the other 3 suits are by the erstwhile partners of the firm, seeking various reliefs that actually revolve around the creation of a mortgage and the sale of the mortgaged property by the mortgagee, all the 5 suits were grouped together for joint trial, one set of issues was framed in common for all the 5 suits, evidence was let in common and hence, all the 5 suits are disposed of together by a common judgment. 7. The first three suits C.S.Nos.339 & 995 of 1999 and 551 of 2001 fall under one category and the other two suits Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003 fall under a different category. However, I shall extract the pleadings and the reliefs sought in each of the five suits separately, before plunging into the discussion in common. Pleadings in C.S.No.339 of 1999: 8. The averments contained in the plaint in C.S.No.339 of 1999 in brief, are as follows:- 9. The mortgagee Egmore Benefit Society Limited has filed a written statement in C.S.No.339 of 1999. The averments contained therein can be summarised as follows:- 10. The other defendants did not file any written statement in C.S.No.339 of 1999. Pleadings in C.S.No.995 of 1999: 11. The averments contained in the plaint in C.S.No.995 of 1999 in brief, are as follows:- 12. In the light of the above averments, the plaintiff firm sought the relief of a declaration that there is no concluded contract of sale between the defendants 1 and 2 with respect to the suit property, based upon the public auction held on 13.12.1999 under the auspices of the third defendant. 13. After 2 years of the institution of the suit, the plaintiff got the plaint amended by taking out an application in A.No.5796 of 2001. The additional pleadings introduced by way of amendment, are mostly legal submissions, in support of the contention that clause 17 of the deed of mortgage constituted a clog on a redemption and that clause 18 does not empower the mortgagee to sell the property by public auction. The plaintiff also raised an additional contention by way of amendment to the effect that the memorandum of deposit of title deeds would not empower the mortgagee to sell the property and that the power of sale without intervention of Court, can be confined only to the loan amount of Rs.25 lakhs. The plaintiff also assailed the order passed in the civil revision petition on 30.01.1999 as contrary to statutory provisions of Section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act and Section 23 of the Contract Act. The plaintiff further contended that the order passed in the civil revision petition on 30.01.1999 would not conform to the definition of the word "decree". Additionally, the plaintiff claimed in the amended plaint that the former Chairman of the second defendant-Society Mr.N.P.V.Ramasamy Udaiyar took a bribe of Rs.10 lakhs for sanctioning the loan amount of Rs.5 crores. The plaintiff claimed that out of the said illegal gratification money, a sum of Rs.5 lakhs was received by N.P.V.Ramasamy Udaiyar in cash and that the balance of Rs.5 lakhs was paid by way of cheque to the wife of Mr.Ramasamy Udaiyar, on 12.8.1995. The plaintiff claimed that, by a letter dated 11.10.2000, they brought this factum of receipt of illegal gratification to the notice of the second defendant. In response, it was claimed by Mrs.R.Kamalam that the amount received by her was for some other transaction. 14. The second defendant filed a written statement contending as follows:- Pleadings in C.S.No.551 of 2001: 15. This suit is filed by the mortgagor-partnership firm praying for a redemption of the simple mortgage dated 31.7.1995 for a sum of Rs.25 lakhs. The averments contained in the plaint can be summarised as follows:- 16. As in the case of other suits, the first defendant has filed a written statement even in this suit C.S.No.551 of 2001, containing exactly the same averments as in the written statements filed in the first two suits. The averments contained in the written statement are not repeated, as it would only be a repetition of the averments contained in the previous suits. But apart from the same contentions as raised in the written statements in the first two suits, the defendant has also contended (i) that the provisions of the Usurious Loans Act, 1918 have no application to the transactions of Nidhi Companies; (ii) that the first defendant is a Nidhi Company and hence they are entitled to charge the interest stipulated in the contract; (iii) that there is a bar for the institution of the above suit, in view of the provisions of Order XXIII, Rule 3-A read with Order II, Rule 2 and Section 141 CPC; and (iv) that the plaintiff and its erstwhile partners prevented the first defendant from collecting the balance of sale consideration (75%) by continuously litigating and hence the plaintiff cannot now take advantage of the non-payment of 75% of the sale consideration by the auction purchaser. Pleadings in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003: 17. Both these suits are filed for identical reliefs by persons similarly placed and on the same cause of action. Therefore, I choose to record the pleadings in both these suits in common. 18. The averments contained in the plaint in both these suits proceed on the following lines:- 19. The first defendant in both these suits viz., The Egmore Benefit Society Ltd., has filed a written statement. The contents of the other written statement in both the suits are one and the same. The written statement of the first defendant in both the suits is on the following lines:- 20. The second defendant partnership has filed a very short written statement in both the suits. The averments are identical and hence the substance of the averments contained in the written statement of the second defendant in both the suits are as follows:- 21. The third defendant has filed a written statement in both the suits and the averments contained therein are identical. Therefore, they are extracted as follows:- ISSUES FRAMED: 22. On 19.3.2004, the following issues were framed by this Court, in common for all the 5 suits:- EVIDENCE LET IN: 23. Since all the suits were tried together and also since issues were framed in common for all the five suits, a joint trial was held. Mr.K.Balasikhamani, the partner of the mortgagor firm, examined himself as PW1 and through him about 40 documents were marked as Exx.P1 to P40. Similarly, during cross-examination of PW1, about 43 documents were marked as Exx.D1 to D43. 24. One Mr.U.Ramanathan, Secretary of the mortgagee, viz., Egmore Benefit Society Ltd., was examined as DW1. Through him, five documents were marked as Ex.D44 to D48. 25. One Mr.D.Sudhakar Reddy, who was the Director of the Company, which was the highest bidder in the public auction, was examined as DW2. Through him, 13 documents were marked as Exx.D49 to D61. 26. Therefore, in fine, only one witness was examined on the side of the plaintiff and 40 documents came to be marked as exhibits on the side of the plaintiff. Two witnesses were examined on the side of the defendants and 61 documents came to be marked as exhibits on the side of the defendants. Keeping this in mind, let me take up the issues arising for consideration one by one. Issue No.(8): 27.1. The eighth issue is as to whether the alleged partition of the mortgaged property in favour of G.Anbazhagan and A.Thayumanaguru plaintiffs in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003 is true and valid and if so, whether the same would affect the interests of the Egmore Benefit Society Limited in that property. I am taking up this issue first for consideration, in view of the fact that this is the only issue that is relatable to Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003. Therefore, a finding on Issue No.(8) would actually dispose of two out of 5 suits on hand. Hence, it is taken up first. 27.2. The claim of the plaintiffs in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003 is that they were the partners of the borrower firm M/s.Ramu & Co. They claim to have become partners under the deed of partnership dated 18.01.1989. According to the plaintiffs, the partners decided to partition the plaint 'A' schedule property and accordingly, they entered into a on 27.5.1989. The plaint 'A' schedule property, according to the plaintiffs, measuring an extent of 39 grounds, was divided into 8 equal moieties, each measuring about 4 grounds and 1541 sq.ft., and that each of the 8 partners was allotted one such share. The plaintiffs further claimed that they were put in possession of the divided portions and that they were also assessed to urban land tax by the proceedings dated 17.01.1994. 27.3. In short, the claim of the plaintiffs in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003 is based upon a Koorchit dated 27.5.1989 and an assessment of urban land tax in Form 5-G on 17.01.1994. 27.4. But at the outset, the plaintiffs have fought shy on getting into the witness box to prove the above facts. They simply allowed one of the continuing partners by name K.Balasikhamani to depose even on their behalf. But, in the written statement filed by the partnership firm M/s.Ramu & Co., there was no categorical admission of the execution of a Koorchit on 27.5.1989. Though in paragraph 4 of the written statement of M/s.Ramu & Co. (second defendant), it was claimed that there was a decision to divide the property among the partners, the firm did not even confirm that there was actually a partition. In paragraph 3 of the written statement filed by M/s.Ramu & Co., in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003, it is stated that all the allegations contained in the plaint are denied, except those that are specifically admitted. The partnership firm failed to specifically admit the averments regarding partition and the execution of the Koorchit. The plaintiffs also failed to get into the witness box. But, strangely, PW1, who deposed on behalf of the partnership firm and whose testimony was taken to be in common for all the suits, identified the Koorchits as Exx.P36 and P37, when confronted, with the documents filed by the plaintiffs in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003. It means the partnership firm did not want to be seen apparently as supporting the case of the plaintiffs in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003. But, that is exactly what they did, by allowing PW1 to support. Therefore, it is clear that the theory of partition is actually invented, concocted and fabricated by the plaintiffs, for the purpose of saving the property of the firm. 27.5. As a matter of fact, A.Thayumanaguru, the plaintiff in Tr.C.S.No.2 of 2003, is the son of one M.K.Ayyanar, who continued to be a partner even after the retirement of the plaintiff. Therefore, it is clear that the claim of partition under the Koorchit is a hoax. 27.6. Interestingly, PW1 - K.Balasikhamani, did not toe the line of the plaintiffs in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003 during examination in chief. In the examination in chief, he did not even claim that there was any partition on 27.5.1989. But, it was the learned counsel for the Egmore Benefit Society Limited, who put question during cross examination of PW1, about the claim made by the plaintiffs in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003. 27.7. During cross-examination, PW1 admitted that the plaintiff in Tr.C.S.No.2 of 2003 A.Thayumanaguru is his younger sister's husband. The plaintiff in the other suit G.Anbazhagan was admitted to be the younger brother of PW1. 27.8. In cross-examination, a specific question was put to PW1 as to whether there was any partition of the mortgaged property in question by way of Koorchit on 27.5.1989. The reply of PW1 was that he had to verify the records. 27.9. PW1 also admitted that except in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003, there was no mention about the partition in any other suit. He admitted that even in Ex.D3 partnership deed dated 01.4.1992, there was no mention about the partition and the execution of Koorchit on 27.5.1989. PW1 admitted that Ex.D5 is the power of attorney executed in his favour by all the partners, including the plaintiffs in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003. It is a registered document. Upon being confronted with this fact, PW1 suddenly came up with a theory that the plaintiffs in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003 cancelled Ex.D5. But PW1 admitted that it was not by any registered instrument and that he had not chosen to file the notice of cancellation of the power of attorney. 27.10. One question put to PW1 and the answer given by him would actually clinch this issue. The question and answer are as follows:- 27.11. Therefore, it is clear that PW1 disowned the plaintiffs. He did not specifically admit the execution of a Koorchit in the written statement. In chief-examination, he did not make a whisper about the partition and Koorchit. But, he identified the Koorchits and they eventually came to be marked as Exx.P36 and P37. But, in cross-examination, his answers were contradictory. Therefore, it is clear that there was no partition as alleged by the plaintiffs and that the Koorchit dated 27.5.1989 and Form 5-G from the Urban Land Tax Authorities were concocted and fabricated for the purpose of this case. In such circumstances, Issue No.(8) is answered against the plaintiffs and in favour of the defendants. In other words, the alleged partition of the mortgaged property in favour of G.Anbazhagan and A.Thayumanaguru (plaintiffs in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003), is false and not valid. Therefore, it would not affect the rights of the mortgagee viz., Egmore Benefit Society Limited. Issue Nos.(1) & (2): 28.1. The first issue is as to whether the second defendant firm had the right to mortgage the property of the plaintiff in favour of the first defendant. The second issue is as to whether the entire contract between the first and second defendant is binding on the plaintiffs. 28.2. Since all the 18 issues are framed in common for all the five suits, we have to first identify the suits to which these two issues relate. This is not difficult. The mortgagor is M/s. Ramu & Co., which is a partnership firm. The mortgagee is the Egmore Benefit Society Limited. The mortgagor firm is the second defendant and the mortgagee is the first defendant only in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003. Therefore, Issue Nos.(1) and (2) can be identified with the claims in these two suits. In C.S.Nos.339 of 1999 and 551 of 2001, the mortgagee is the first defendant and the auctioneer is the second defendant. In C.S.No.995 of 1999, the auction purchaser is the first defendant and the mortgagee is the second defendant. Therefore, Issue Nos.(1) and (2) tally only with the suits Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003 and hence, they should be decided only with reference to these two suits. 28.3. As we have already seen, Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003 are filed by the erstwhile partners of the mortgagor firm, claiming that they became partners of the firm under deeds dated 18.01.1989 and 20.4.1989. As per the averments contained in the plaints in these suits, the partners decided to divide the property by metes and bounds and to have one share allotted. The plaintiffs rely upon an unstamped and unregistered koorchit dated 27.5.1989 in support of their contention that the entire suit property was divided into eight equal shares and one share measuring 4 grounds and 1541 sq.ft. was allotted to each one of the partners. The plaintiffs claim that ever since the date of partition, they are in possession and that the competent authority levied urban land tax. They rely upon Form 5-G dated 17.01.1994. The plaintiffs in these two suits agree that they retired from the partnership in 1992 and that at the time of joining the partnership firm, they gave a power of attorney and that the same was also cancelled at the time of retirement, by sending a communication to K.Balasikhamani. They further claim that they came to know about the claim made by the mortgagee only when they saw a circular dated 02.5.2001. 28.4. Thus, the plaints in both the suits proceed on the basis of an alleged oral partition and three documents namely, (i) a koorchit dated 27.5.1989, (ii) Form 5-G under Tamil Nadu Urban Land Tax Act dated 17.01.1994, and (iii) a written communication issued at the time of retiring from the partnership, to K.Balasikhamani, cancelling the power given to him earlier. 28.5. Therefore, the very foundation of the case of the plaintiffs is an oral partition that allegedly took place in May 1989. Hence, the least that is expected of the plaintiffs is to get into the witness box, at least to say in formal words that there was an oral partition. But, the plaintiffs in both these suits avoided getting into the witness box. 28.6. The plaintiffs cannot allow K.Balasikhamani, examined as PW1, to prove oral partition, since Balasikhamani avoided signing and verifying the pleadings, even in the two suits filed by M/s. Ramu & Co. It was his daughter B.Sudha who signed and verified the pleadings in those two suits, but, she shirked the responsibility of getting into the witness box. Therefore, the oral partition pleaded by the plaintiffs will have to fail miserably. 28.7. In any case, an unstamped and unregistered partition deed, by whatever name it is called, is not admissible in evidence. The recognition granted by law to an oral partition, as evidenced by a koorchit, is available only to properties belonging to joint families. This facility is not extended to properties owned by partnership firms. While under Section 14 of the Partnership Act, it is possible for a partner to bring into the partnership, property belonging to him by the evidence of his intention to make it part of the assets of the partnership, the release of a property from partnership to an individual, without a stamped and registered document, is not possible. In The Chief Controlling Revenue Authority v. Chidambaram (1969 (82) LW 321  Madras FB) a full Bench of this Court pointed out, citing with approval, a decision of the Full Bench of the Calcutta High Court in Premraj Brahmin v. Bhaniram Brahmin, that the property of an individual could be thrown into the partnership stock without any formal document, on the principle underlying Section 14 . But, the same Full Bench pointed out in The Chief Controlling Revenue Authority v. M.Abdullah (1969 (82) LW 317) that whenever a division of property takes place under a deed of dissolution of partnership, the document is both a deed of dissolution as well as a deed of partition and that therefore, under Section 6 of the Indian Stamp Act, the higher duty payable for a deed of partition will be payable on the instrument. However, another Full Bench of this Court held in Chief Controlling Revenue Authority v. Sarojini Muthusamy (2001 (1) LW 489) that when a partnership firm is dissolved, the partners are entitled to the benefits that flow from it and that a deed of dissolution made at that time cannot be regarded as a deed to convey or transfer. This decision followed the decision of the Supreme Court in S.V.Chandra Pandian v. S.V.Sivalinga Nadar (1993 (1) LW 612). 28.8. However, in this case, the plaintiffs do not rely upon any deed of dissolution, but, rely upon a koorchit. Therefore, even the Full Bench decision in Sarojini Muthusamy would not go to their rescue. At any rate, koorchit is always identified to be a record of an oral partition that had taken place earlier. Therefore, oral evidence on the part of the parties pleading such a partition, is a necessary corollary to establish it. But, the plaintiffs failed to get into the witness box. Therefore, the claim of partition is wholly unbelievable. 28.9. Interestingly, a question was put to PW1 during cross examination as to whether there was any partition as evidenced by koorchit dated 27.5.1989. His immediate answer was that he had to verify the records. Thereafter, the counsel for the first defendant fired an array of questions, as though he was interested in establishing a partition. 28.10. It was also brought on record that at the time when the alleged partition took place, there was a subsisting loan with the Indian Bank and that no information was passed on to them. PW1 further admitted that there was no mention about the partition, in the deed of Admission cum Retirement dated 01.4.1992 marked as Ex.D3. A perusal of Ex.D3 dated 01.4.1992 shows that the partnership firm carried on business at the very same schedule mentioned property namely, No.91, Dr.C.P.Ramasamy Road, Alwarpet, Chennai 600 018, by running a hotel called Hotel Kavitha and a Kalyana Mandapam called "Gokul Kalyana Mandapam". Clauses 3 and 4 of Ex.D3 indicated that the firm will continue to run the same businesses at the same property. Clause 9 indicated that the re-constituted firm will continue the business with the entire assets and liabilities of the firm, as a running business without any break. If the claim that the suit property comprising of land of an extent of 39 grounds had been partitioned (on 27.5.1989) into eight equal moieties and divided among the eight partners is true, the Hotel and Kalyana Mandapam could not have been carried on at the same location, either up to or even after 01.4.1992. What is worse is the fact that the power of attorney Ex.D5 was executed by the plaintiffs (Anbalagan and Thayumanaguru) on 01.8.1989 under Ex.D5, much after the alleged partition. 28.11. The story that the power of attorney under Ex.D5 was cancelled by the plaintiffs, was also not fully supported by PW1. First of all, he admitted that the cancellation was not by a registered document, though the power of attorney was a registered one. He did not produce even a notice of cancellation of power. PW1 pleaded ignorance of any public notice of cancellation of the power. 28.12. To cap it all, PW1 gave two answers, which are sufficient to answer these two issues against the plaintiffs and throw both the suits Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003 out. The questions and answers are as follows: 28.13. Therefore, it is clear that PW1 admitted his incompetence to answer the questions relating to the rights claimed by the plaintiffs in Tr.C.S. Nos.2 and 3 of 2003 on the basis of an alleged partition. If the plaintiffs in these two suits were the beneficiaries of an oral partition, the other partners including K.Balasikhamani and Arunagiri were also the beneficiaries. But, none of them ever pleaded any oral partition at any point of time, ever since the dispute started. Therefore, the story that there was an oral partition is obviously cooked up for the purpose of this case. 28.14. Once it is clear that there was no partition, it is not open to the retired partners to question the right of the continuing partners to mortgage the property of the firm. The plaintiffs in these two suits admittedly retired from partnership on 01.4.1992. Therefore, they cannot question the right or validity of the transaction entered into between the defendants 1 and 2. The partnership firm has not disputed the borrowal of money and the creation of a mortgage. Once the claim of partition fails, the property is naturally that of the firm. Therefore, I answer Issue No.(1) to the effect that the second defendant firm (in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003), had the right to mortgage the suit property (described in Schedule A to these suits) in favour of the first defendant, namely, Egmore Benefit Society Limited. No portion of Schedule A property belonged or belongs to the plaintiffs and hence, they cannot question the mortgage. 28.15. Once it is found that the plaintiffs in these two suits had nothing to do either with the loan transaction or with the property, then it is not for them to question the contract between the defendants 1 and 2. The plaintiffs are not parties to the loan transaction, as they had retired from the partnership even before. The property became vested with the firm absolutely and they had created a mortgage, which the mortgagee attempted to enforce. The mortgagee is not proceeding against the personal properties of the plaintiffs. Therefore, the question of the contract (loan transaction), entered into between the defendants 1 and 2, binding the plaintiffs does not arise. Hence, Issue No.(2) is answered to the effect that the loan transaction between the defendants 1 and 2 is binding on persons who were partners on the date of the loan agreement and that the property in entirety is covered by the mortgage created in favour of the lender. Issue Nos.(5) & (15): 29.1. The fifth issue is as to whether any illegal gratification was received by the erstwhile Chairman of the second defendant Society for sanctioning the loan of Rs.5 crores to the plaintiff partnership firm and splitting the loan into two parts viz., Rs.25 lakhs by registered simple mortgage and Rs.4.75 crores by deposit of title deeds of the property. The fifteenth issue is as to whether any cut-back commission/secret commission/bribery of Rs.10 lakhs was received by the erstwhile Chairman of the first defendant Society for sanctioning the loan of Rs.5 crores to the plaintiff partnership firm in contravention of its own rules and in contravention of the statutes. 29.2. As indicated already, there are five suits on hand, out of which only 2 are by the partnership firm which borrowed the loan and created a mortgage. Two suits are by persons who had retired from the partnership. One suit is by a continuing partner. 29.3. Two out of the five suits were filed in the year 1999. The first of them was by the continuing partner and the second was by the firm. The third suit was filed in the year 2001 by the partnership firm. The fourth and the fifth suits were filed by the retired partners in the year 2001. 29.4. In the first suit, C.S.No.339 of 1999, filed by the continuing partner, he has claimed in paragraph 4 of the plaint that he and the defendants 4 to 8 in C.S.No.339 of 1999 approached the Egmore Benefit Society Ltd., for a loan and that the same was sanctioned. The entire averments contained in the plaint in C.S.No.339 of 1999 would go to show that the plaintiff therein was aware of the application for loan, the sanction of the loan, the creation of the mortgage and the execution of necessary documents. But, he has not stated anywhere in the plaint that a bribe or illegal gratification or cut back or commission was ever paid to the former Chairman of the Mortgagee. 29.5. The second suit, C.S.No.995 of 1999, was filed by the partnership firm M/s.Ramu & Co. The pleadings were signed and verified on behalf of the partnership firm by Mrs.B.Sudha, D/o.Balasikhamani. In the original plaint as it was filed in C.S.No.995 of 1999, there was no averment to the effect that the former Chairman of the Mortgagee took a bribe. 29.6. Subsequently, the partnership firm came up with a third suit in C.S.No.551 of 2001. The pleadings in the said suit were also verified and signed only by Mrs.B.Sudha on behalf of the firm. It was only in the plaint in that suit that an averment was made to the effect that a bribe amount was paid. 29.7. After taking up such a plea for the first time in the third suit, wisdom dawned upon the plaintiff and hence they got the plaint in C.S.No.995 of 1999 amended to include certain averments in paragraph 6 of the plaint. The amendment was ordered on 20.3.2002 in the application A.No.5796 of 2001. Therefore, it is clear that the very averments relating to illegal gratification were made for the first time in the year 2001, despite the partnership firm having started the litigation way back in 1997. Keeping this in mind, let me now look at the evidence on record. 29.8. Mrs.B.Sudha, who had signed the pleadings in C.S.Nos.995 of 1999 and 551 of 2001, did not choose to go to the witness box. On the other hand, her father who is one of the partners of the firm, examined himself as PW1. He was not an ordinary person. He was, as seen from his deposition, an employee of the Vysya Bank. He left the Bank and started a Construction Company. He admitted to be a Commerce Graduate with a Diploma in Banking. In response to a question during cross-examination, PW1 admitted that he was the person who was handling and representing the plaintiff firm, at the time of the borrowing. Therefore, one would have expected him to sign and verify the pleadings. But he did not choose to do so. On the contrary, he allowed another partner to sign and verify the pleadings and that partner did not go to the witness box. 29.9. In the same portion of cross-examination, where PW1 claims to have handled and represented the plaintiff firm before the Mortgagee, he also claims that a part of the loan amount was given to the Chairman of the first defendant. He did not indicate the amount and he did not also say that it was an illegal gratification. 29.10. What is worse is that when PW1 was confronted with his signature in Ex.P8, which is the affidavit of undertaking filed in CRP No.1999 of 1998, he stated in his cross-examination that though he signed the affidavit, he was not a partner of the firm. Therefore, a question was put to him as to how he was entitled to give evidence on behalf of the firm, when he claims to be not a partner. To this question, he replied that he was entitled to conduct the suit and that he joined as a partner, but did not remember the date and that he had to see the records like the partnership deed. When the same question was repeated subsequently, PW1 said that he rejoined the partnership, but that he has to see the partnership deed to tell the exact date. 29.11. Towards the end of cross-examination, PW1 also admitted that his daughter (and partner) Mrs.B.Sudha gave instructions to the counsel to prepare the plaints in C.S.Nos.995 of 1999 and 551 of 2001. But, she not only failed to get into the witness box, but also failed to make an allegation of payment of illegal gratification to the former Chairman of the Egmore Benefit Society, in the first suit. This allegation proceeds on the basis that a sum of Rs.5 lakhs was paid in cash to the former Chairman N.P.V.Ramasamy Udayar and a sum of Rs.5 lakhs was paid by way of cheque to the Chairman's wife. Though the former Chairman was dead, there was no averment that his wife was also dead. Therefore, the plaintiff should have at least made her a party to the suit. When a serious allegation of demand and acceptance of illegal gratification is made, the plaintiff cannot seek a finding without impleading the concerned person as a party. The attempt to invite a finding without making at least the wife of the former Chairman as a party, is nothing but a fraudulent attempt. 29.12. In any case, I do not know what effect the said allegation, even if true, could have on the borrowal of loan. The Egmore Benefit Society Ltd., is a corporate entity. It would be bound only by the lawful acts on the part of the Principal Officers. The Benefit Society cannot be deprived of the recovery of the loan advanced by them, on the specious plea that one of its Officers took illegal gratification. The receipt of the full loan amount of Rs.5 crores, as sanctioned by the Benefit Society, is admitted by the plaintiffs in all the suits. Therefore, the allegations made against the former Chairman are hardly of any significance. In any event, the person who pleaded the same, did not go to the witness box. The person against whom such a pleading was set up, was not made a party and the person who went into the witness box, claimed that he was not a partner. Therefore, the allegations of payment of cut back/commission/illegal gratification are completely unfounded and frivolous. Hence, Issue Nos.(5) and (15) are answered against the plaintiffs by holding that payment of cut back/commission/illegal gratification by the plaintiff to the former Chairman of the Benefit Society and to his wife, is not established. Issue No.(4): 30.1. The fourth issue is as to whether the first defendant Egmore Benefit Society Limited was entitled to advance a loan to the second defendant firm without verifying the title to the property. 30.2. This issue is an off-shoot of the claim made by the plaintiffs in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003 to the effect that much before the creation of the mortgage, the property was partitioned and that on the date of creation of the mortgage, the borrower firm was not the owner of the property. 30.3. But, I have already found on Issue Nos.(8), (1) and (2) that the claim of partition is a farce and frivolous one. Once the claim of partition made by the plaintiffs fails and once it is found that the firm was the absolute owner of the property, entitled to deal with it in a manner known to law, it cannot be contended that the first defendant advanced a loan to the firm without verifying the title. 30.4. The contention that the first defendant Society advanced loan without verifying the title of the firm to the property, is both ill-conceived and ill-explained. The partnership firm as well as the individual partner who have come up before Court claim that the property belongs to the firm absolutely. The story of partition set up by the retired partners has been rejected by me. Therefore, there is no use contending that the Society advanced a loan without verifying the title of the partnership firm to the property. There are only two things. If the title of the firm is defective, they need not bother. If the title is perfect, the fourth issue does not arise. Therefore, I hold on Issue No.(4) that the first defendant Society advanced the loan to the second defendant firm only after verifying their title to the property. Issue No.(3): 31.1. The third issue is as to whether the power of attorney given to an agent can be utilised in such a manner as to be detrimental to the interest of the principal. 31.2. This issue appears to have been framed in connection with the first suit C.S.No.339 of 1999. As I have indicated in the first portion of the judgment, where the pleadings are extracted, the plaintiff in C.S.No.339 of 1999 claims that he and three other partners, namely, defendants 6 to 8, were retired from the firm and in their place, defendants 9 to 11 were inducted, under a deed of Admission cum Retirement dated 01.4.1998. This deed, according to the plaintiff A.Arunagiri, was executed by the fourth defendant K.Balasikhamani, on the basis of a Power of Attorney given to him by all the partners. Unfortunately, the deed of Admission cum Retirement dated 01.4.1998 was not filed as an exhibit. The plaintiff A.Arunagiri also did not get into the witness box. The Power of Attorney dated 01.8.1989, by which the plaintiff A.Arunagiri and others authorised K.Balasikhamani, was filed as Ex.D5. 31.3. The plaintiff in C.S.No.339 of 1999 has pleaded in paragraphs 19 and 20 of the plaint that only upon coming to know of the auction sale fixed on 31.5.1999, he came to know of the affidavit of undertaking filed by the partners in CRP No.1999 of 1998 and that thereafter, he came to know of his retirement from partnership with effect from 01.4.1998. Therefore, the plaintiff assails in paragraphs 21 to 25 of the plaint in C.S.No.339 of 1999, the power of the fourth defendant K.Balasikhamani to retire the plaintiff and defendants 6 to 8 from the partnership and the propriety of the old as well as the newly inducted partners in filing an affidavit of undertaking in CRP No.1999 of 1998 for discharging the loan. 31.4. But, the plaintiff A.Arunagiri failed to get into the witness box. He also failed to mark the deed of Admission cum Retirement dated 01.4.1998 as an exhibit. Mr.K.Balasikhamani, who alone deposed on the side of the plaintiffs as PW1, also failed to mark a copy of the said deed as an exhibit. On the question of retirement of old partners and admission of new partners, PW1 made certain admissions during cross examination. It may be useful to extract all of them, as they would determine the fate of Issue No.(3). The relevant questions and answers are as follows: 31.5. Interestingly, the allegations of A.Arunagiri, the plaintiff in C.S.No.339 of 1999, were directed against the fourth defendant K.Balasikhamani, to the effect that he acted on the basis of the Power of Attorney, in a manner detrimental to the interest of the partners. Conveniently, K.Balasikhamani, who was the fourth defendant, failed to file a written statement, supporting or opposing the allegations of A.Arunagiri. On the contrary, when A.Arunagiri moved C.S.No.339 of 1999 and sought an interim stay of auction before this Court, this Court imposed a condition for payment of an amount of Rs.3.00 crores. This amount was paid and the mortgagee issued receipts which were marked as Exx.D17 and D18. These receipts were actually acknowledged only by K.Balasikhamani. Therefore, it is clear that it was PW1 who set up A.Arunagiri to file a suit, as otherwise, he could not have obtained the receipts on behalf of A.Arunagiri. 31.6. In the plaint, A.Arunagiri specifically alleged collusion between K.Balasikhamani and Egmore Benefit Society Limited. But, it became clear in the course of evidence that only they were in collusion. To a question in cross-examination whether there was collusion between him and the Benefit Society, PW1 replied in the negative. PW1 also admitted that four of the partners of the firm were his own kith and kin. One was his mother, one was his wife and two were his daughters. The plaintiff A.Arunagiri was admittedly PW1's younger sister's husband. 31.7. Therefore, it is clear that all the partners of the borrower firm, somehow or the other, were making attempts to avoid repayment of the amount borrowed from the mortgagee and to wriggle out of their obligations. The suits filed by two retired partners Anbalagan and Thayumanaguru and the suit filed by A.Arunagiri were part of a larger scheme designed by all of them to retrieve the mortgaged property without repaying the loan. The attack on the Power of Attorney and its use by K.Balasikhamani is just a part of the said design. 31.8. It is on the strength of the Power of Attorney executed by all the partners in favour of K.Balasikhamani that he secured a loan of Rs.5.00 Crores for the partnership firm. The firm was the beneficiary of the amount of loan. The loan transaction entered into by the Power Agent, was for the benefit of the firm and the property was offered only as a security for the due repayment of the loan. Even in a contract of sale, adequacy of consideration is not a ground to assail the transaction. While so, it is futile on the part of the plaintiff to contend that by abusing his position as the Power Agent, PW1 offered as security, a property worth Rs.50.00 Crores for a loan of Rs.5.00 Crores. The amount of loan has no correlation to the value of the security, insofar as the borrower is concerned. This is for the reason that the borrower could have always repaid the loan and taken back the property. Hence, I hold on Issue No.(3) that the power given by all the partners in favour of K.Balasikhamani, for getting a loan from the Benefit Society and for doing all things incidental thereto, was not utilised by the Agent in a manner detrimental to the interest of the Principal. Except A.Arunagiri, none of the other partners make an issue of the manner in which K.Balasikhamani procured a loan. Therefore, Issue No.(3) is answered against the plaintiff. Issue Nos.(12) & (16): 32.1. The twelfth issue is as to whether the mortgage transaction between the plaintiff firm and the first defendant Society is void ab initio under Section 23 of the Contract Act. The sixteenth issue is as to whether the order passed in CRP No.1999 of 1998 based on an affidavit of undertaking filed by some partners of the plaintiffs firm contrary to statutes and without any adjudication by Court is an order "per incuriam" and such an order is binding on the plaintiff. 32.2. Both these issues are taken up together in view of the fact that the defence in terms of Section 23 of the Contract Act is taken both by the borrower firm and by A.Arunagiri, the plaintiff in the first suit, while challenging the affidavit of undertaking filed by the partners before this Court in the civil revision petition. It is their contention in the plaints in C.S.Nos.339 and 995 of 1999 and in C.S.No.551 of 2001 that the right of sale conferred by Section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act to sell a mortgaged property without the intervention of Court, is confined only to registered simple mortgages and that by passing an order in the civil revision petition on the basis of the affidavit of undertaking to clear both the components of the loan, this Court acted in contravention of the provisions of law. Therefore, the plaintiffs contend that the same is violative of Section 23 of the Contract Act and makes the order of this Court in the civil revision petition one in per incuriam. 32.3. The affidavit of undertaking filed before this Court in CRP No.1999 of 1998, is filed as Ex.P8. It was signed by five persons, namely, PW1, his wife, his mother and two daughters. In paragraph 1 of Ex.P8, the deponents declared that they are the partners of the borrower firm. But, PW1 asserted any number of times during cross examination that he was not a partner of the firm. If his deposition is true, he is guilty of filing a false affidavit. If the affidavit was true, his deposition was false. Either way, he is guilty of adducing false evidence and abusing the process of Court. 32.4. It is needless to point out that an affidavit is evidence within the meaning of Section 191 of the Indian Penal Code and a person swearing to a false affidavit is guilty of perjury punishable under Section 193 of the Indian Penal Code. Condemning such an action and attitude on the part of litigants and witnesses, the Supreme Court pointed out In Re: Suo Motu proceedings against R.Karuppan, Advocate ((2001) 5 SCC 289), as follows: 32.5. PW1 as well as his daughter B.Sudha, who have signed and verified the pleadings on behalf of the partnership firm, are really guilty of perjury. In the civil revision petition CRP No.1999 of 1998, which arose out of interim orders of stay granted by the City Civil Court against the proposed auction sale, PW1, his wife, his mother and two daughters were offered two tangible benefits, as a quid pro quo for filing the affidavit of undertaking Ex.P8. The first benefit offered to them was the stay of auction till 30.4.1999. The second benefit offered was the withdrawal of the criminal prosecution launched by the Egmore Benefit Society Limited against PW1 in C.C.No.3063 of 1997 on the file of the IX Metropolitan Magistrate, Chennai, in respect of a dishonoured cheque for an amount of Rs.73,10,281/-. This is seen from paragraph 9 of the affidavit of undertaking Ex.P8. One more benefit would have accrued to the partnership firm, in the form of waiver of 25% of overdue interest and interest tax amount of Rs.28,12,182/-, if the firm had acted in accordance with the affidavit of undertaking and paid the amount fixed thereunder. Therefore, it is clear that the affidavit of undertaking was not a one sided affair, but, contained lot of benefits for PW1 as well as his family members who were partners of the firm. In such circumstances, I do not know how the affidavit of undertaking could be assailed by the firm as well as the former and present partners, as opposed to public policy. 32.6. Under Section 23 of the Contract Act, every agreement, of which the object or consideration is unlawful, is void. The consideration or object of an agreement is lawful, unless (i) it is forbidden by law, or (ii) is of such a nature that, if permitted, would defeat the provisions of any law or is fraudulent, or (iii) involves or implies injury to the person or property of another, or (iv) the Court regards it as immoral or opposed to public policy. '	32.7. The plaintiffs claim that the affidavit of undertaking filed by them was for the performance of something which was intended to defeat the provisions of law ( Section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act) and that it was opposed to public policy. 32.8. The contention that the affidavit of undertaking was opposed to public policy, is to be stated only to be rejected. A careful look at Section 23 would show that the opinion that something is opposed to public policy, should be that of the Court and not that of the party to the contract. Insofar as something that strikes at the root of the contract on account of being immoral or opposed to public policy is concerned, it is the opinion of the Court that matters. This is why the phraseology used in Section 23 is "The Court regards it as immoral or opposed to public policy". 32.9. The affidavit of undertaking Ex.P8 was filed before this Court in the civil revision petition and this Court did not consider the same to be opposed to public policy. It was accepted by this Court and an order was passed postponing the auction and granting time to the borrower to make payment and also conferring certain benefits on the borrower. An attempt was made to challenge before the Supreme Court, the order passed by this Court in the civil revision petition. But, it did not bring the desired result. The affidavit of undertaking was acted upon by the other party, namely, the lender. Therefore, it cannot be assailed as opposed to public policy. 32.10. The second ground on which the affidavit is assailed is that the compliance with the same would have defeated the provisions of Section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act. Section 69 empowers the mortgagee to sell the mortgaged property without the intervention of the Court, only if the mortgage had been created by way of a registered deed of simple mortgage, incorporating a provision for such sale. The contention of the plaintiff is that the deed of simple mortgage executed by the firm was confined to the loan amount of Rs.25.00 Lakhs and that the next component of the loan, namely Rs.4.75 Crores was secured only by an equitable mortgage by deposit of title deeds. But, in the affidavit of undertaking, the partners agreed to repay the entire loan due in respect of both components and submitted themselves to a sale without the intervention of the Court, if the whole amount was not repaid. Therefore, the plaintiffs claim that what was not facilitated by Section 69 , could not have been encouraged by this Court, by accepting an affidavit of undertaking and passing an order on the basis of the same. 32.11. But, the above contention is wholly frivolous. It is true that the provisions of Section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act confer upon the mortgagee, the power of sale without the intervention of Court, only in respect of a deed of registered simple mortgage. But, the plaintiffs have conveniently forgotten that even at the time of taking the loan, the borrower executed a Power of Attorney dated 01.8.1995, marked as Ex.D44, in favour of the Egmore Benefit Society Limited, conferring the power of sale. It was an irrevocable Power of Attorney, as seen from one of the preamble portions. The irrevocability is valid in view of the fact that the power was coupled with interest. In the last portion of the deed of Power Ex.D44, it was made clear that the Power is irrevocable till the entire loan and all monies payable to the Society were fully repaid. This Power of Attorney cannot be said to be opposed to public policy or intended to defeat the provisions of any law. As a matter of fact the plaintiffs do not take a stand that Ex.D44 was ever cancelled or revoked. It could not have been revoked without repayment of all the monies. The affidavit of undertaking has to be seen in the light of Ex.D44. Once this is done, it will be clear that neither the mortgage, nor the affidavit of undertaking was hit by Section 23 of the Contract Act. They are also not intended to defeat the provisions of Section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act and hence, the affidavit cannot be considered as per incuriam. 32.12. One of the contentions raised by the Egmore Benefit Society Ltd. was that the affidavit of undertaking filed on 30.01.1999 in CRP No.1999 of 1998 amounted to an admission of liability and that therefore, their failure to honour the commitment on or before 30.4.1999, gave rise to a right to the Society to bring the property to sale. Taking exception to such a stand on the ground that the affidavit of undertaking did not amount to an admission of liability, as contemplated by Order XII, Rule 6, CPC , the plaintiffs rely upon the following decisions: 32.13. I do not think that I should deal with each one of those cases, to find out if there was an admission of liability on the part of the plaintiff in terms of Order XII, Rule 6, CPC , or not. The contention of the Society that there was an admission of liability was a mere response to the claim of the plaintiff that the order passed in the civil revision petition is not a decree. But, a reference to Order XII, Rule 6, CPC , whether made by the plaintiff or by the defendant, is completely misconceived. The Egmore Benefit Society did not bring the property to sale in execution of any decree, interim or final, passed in terms of Order XII, Rule 6, CPC . Irrespective of whether the affidavit of undertaking filed on 30.01.1999 amounted to an admission of liability in terms of Order XII, Rule 6, CPC or not, the sale that took place on 13.5.1999 was only in pursuance of the power conferred by Section 69 . It was not a sale in execution of a decree. Therefore, the question relating to Order XII, Rule 6, CPC , and all the decisions on the same, have no significance insofar as a sale that took place not in execution of a decree, but, in exercise of the power of the sale. 32.14. Out of the aforesaid decisions relied on by the plaintiffs, I think I should deal with the one in P.R.Deshpande vs. Maruti Balaram Haibatti (1999 (1) LW 68). It was held therein by the Supreme Court, as follows:- Therefore, it is contended by the plaintiff that the statutory right of redemption cannot be said to be lost merely due to the affidavit of undertaking filed on 30.1.1999. 32.15. But the said decision is quoted out of context by the plaintiffs. The said decision arose under the Rent Control Legislation. The affidavit of undertaking filed before the High Court, was held by the Supreme Court to be one that would not take away the statutory right of the tenant to appeal to the Supreme Court. In the case on hand, I am not holding that by filing the affidavit of undertaking, the plaintiffs lost their right of redemption. I am just taking note of the same, for the purpose of understanding how the plaintiffs employed all kinds of tactics available in the text books to stall every auction sale. Therefore, the decision in Deshpande, the correctness of which has recently been doubted by another Bench of the Supreme Court, is not of any assistance to the plaintiffs. 32.16. Enlarging on the scope of the controversy relating to the affidavit of undertaking, which in my opinion was wholly unnecessary and irrelevant, the plaintiffs argued what an affidavit is and how an evidence on affidavit should be dealt with. After referring to Section 3(3) of the General Clauses Act, which defines the expression "affidavit", the learned counsel for the plaintiff relied upon the decision of the Supreme Court in M.Veerabhadra Rao v. Tek Chand (1984 (Supp.) SCC 571) for driving home the necessary ingredients of an affidavit. He also relied upon the decision in V.R.Kamath v. Divisional Controller (AIR 1997 Kant. 275) to highlight the manner in which an attestation should take place. Further, the learned counsel relied upon the following decisions, where an affidavit was held to be not included in the definition of the expression "evidence" in Section 3 of the Evidence Act: 32.17. But, the question whether an affidavit is evidence or not and the question as to how an affidavit is to be sworn to and attested and the question as to how an oath is to be administered, are all unnecessary and irrelevant. The affidavit of undertaking dated 30.01.1999 filed in the civil revision petition, a copy of which was marked as Ex.P8, was not used as a piece of evidence in the civil revision petition, to decree any suit against the plaintiffs. I am also not deciding the liability of the plaintiffs, either on the basis of Ex.P8  affidavit of undertaking or on the basis of any other affidavit. 32.18. First of all, the amendments to the Civil Procedure Code, that were made in 1999 and 2002, completely changed the outlook of Courts towards affidavits. Today, examination-in-chief can take place in terms of Order XVIII, Rule 4(1), CPC , by way of affidavit. This is why PW1 himself filed an affidavit in lieu of chief examination. I do not know if the plaintiffs or PW1 may turn back tomorrow and call the entire chief examination as a piece of waste paper to be dumped into the dustbin. The affidavit of undertaking filed by this very PW1 in the civil revision petition, was not actually by way of evidence. It was like an affidavit of undertaking filed by tenants in Rent Control Proceedings, agreeing to vacate within a particular time frame. This affidavit of undertaking is not to be confused with any piece of evidence. It was a solemn undertaking made by PW1 and the partners of the firm to this Court, for the purpose of securing at least three benefits, namely, (i) postponement of the auction, (ii) waiver of penal interest; and (iii) withdrawal of the criminal case. This is why I have referred to the decision of the Supreme Court in In Re: Suo Motu proceedings against R.Karuppan, Advocate ((2001) 5 SCC 289), to point out how the plaintiffs had taken this Court as well as the defendant for a jolly ride. Hence, all the contentions that revolve around the question whether an affidavit is an evidence or not and whether it was an admission of liability or not, are completely out of context and irrelevant. They are irrelevant for two reasons, namely, (a) I am not determining either the liability or otherwise of the plaintiffs, nor am I determining the quantum of liability of the plaintiffs to the defendant, on the basis of any affidavit; and (b) even in the civil revision petition, this Court did not decide the quantum of liability of the plaintiffs on the basis of the affidavit of undertaking. It was the plaintiffs (particularly PW1), who indicated the amount payable by them, in the affidavit of undertaking. Therefore, nothing turns out on any affidavit, insofar as the present suits are concerned. 32.19. In view of the above, I hold on Issue No.(12) that the mortgage is not hit by Section 23 of the Contract Act. I hold on Issue No.(16) that the order passed in CRP No.1999 of 1998 is not contrary to any statute, nor is it per incuriam. Hence, both these issues are answered against the defendants. Issue No.(11): 33.1. The 11th issue is whether the splitting of the loan of Rs.5 crores into a registered simple mortgage of Rs.25 lakhs and mortgage by deposit of title deeds of the property in violation of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the first defendant Society is against the public policy and amounts to evasion of Stamp Duty. 33.2. The plaintiffs admit that they made a loan application on 16.6.1995 under Ex.P1, for the grant of a loan of Rs.5 crores. The loan was sanctioned and the plaintiffs admittedly executed several documents. The deed of mortgage titled as "Special Loan Mortgage Deed" executed on 31.7.1995 is filed as Ex.P2. It was registered in the office of the Sub Registrar, Mylapore. Paragraph 8 of Ex.P2 states that if the mortgagor failed to pay the amounts as set out in paragraph 7, the mortgagee will have the power to sell the property in public auction or by private sale as provided in Section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act. 33.3. The borrower firm also executed a memorandum on 01.8.1995, filed as Ex.P3, recording the fact that all title deeds relating to the property have been deposited with the lender, with the intention to create a collateral security, for the debt of Rs.4.75 crores. On the same date, a Loan Agreement dated 01.8.1995 was also executed by the borrower firm and the lender Society. It was filed as Ex.P4. Under Clause 1 of the said Loan Agreement, the Society agreed to advance a loan of Rs.5 crores and the borrower agreed to execute a simple mortgage for Rs.25 lakhs and agreed to create a mortgage by deposit of title deeds for Rs.4.75 crores. 33.4. Clause 6 of the Loan Agreement Ex.P4 made it obligatory for the borrowers to execute and register, at the cost and expenses of the borrowers, a mortgage deed, if the lender so felt that the equitable mortgage created was not sufficient. Under Clause 7 of Ex.P4, the borrowers undertook to execute an irrevocable power of attorney authorising the lender to sell, mortgage etc., the property in question. 33.5. Clauses 17 and 18 of Ex.P4 reads as follows:- 33.6. The Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association of the lender was filed as Ex.P5. Clause 3 of the Memorandum of Association states that the objects for which the Society was established, are to do banking business of all kinds among its shareholders. Clause 2 of the Articles of Association states that the transactions of the Society shall be restricted to its shareholders. Clause 2 also states that a person whose application for allotment of shares is accepted by the Secretary, shall be deemed to be a shareholder. The expression "shareholder" is defined in Clause 5(a) to mean a registered holder of one or more share in the Society. 33.7. A printed circular of the Egmore Benefit Society Ltd., titled "Property Loans-Salient Rules and Conditions for the Information of Applicants" was filed by the plaintiffs as Ex.P6. The said document merely contains the conditions subject to which loans would be granted. Though nothing turns on the said document, the plaintiffs rely upon condition No.10 in Ex.P6, which gives a list of documents to be filed along with the loan application. From condition No.10, the plaintiffs want me to infer that a loan cannot be advanced by the Society to partnership firms carrying on businesses and that it cannot also be granted to persons other than shareholders. 33.8. The printed booklet containing the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Egmore Benefit Society, is filed by the Society itself as Ex.D4. A careful perusal of the same would show that there are no restrictions for anyone to become a shareholder. Clause 10 of the Articles of Association is of relevance and importance. Therefore, it is extracted as follows:- Therefore, primarily there was no restriction for the partnership firm to become a shareholder. 33.9. In any case, all the partners became shareholders individually by making applications through their power agent K.Balasikhamani, as seen from Ex.D7 series. In fact, K.Balasikhamani, examined as PW1, was himself a shareholder. Therefore, none of the Articles of Association of the Egmore Benefit Society Ltd., stood violated by the sanction of the loan. 33.10. The splitting of the loan into two components viz., (i) Rs.25 lakhs secured by a registered mortgage and (ii) Rs.4.75 crores secured by a mortgage by deposit of title deeds, is also not prohibited by any of the clauses in the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Egmore Benefit Society Ltd. Clause 52 of the Articles of Association confers sole discretion upon the Board of Directors regarding the utilisation of the funds of the Society, including the grant of regular or special loans on the security of movable and immovable properties. None of the clauses in the Memorandum or Articles of Association, stipulates that the security on the immovable property can be created only in one way and not the other. In other words, the Articles of Association confers absolute discretion upon the Board of Directors to decide the manner in which regular or special loans could be granted and they also have the absolute discretion to decide the manner in which a security is to be created. Therefore, creation of security in the form of a registered deed of simple mortgage for Rs.25 lakhs and the creation of security in the form of mortgage by deposit of title deeds for Rs.4.75 crores, is not prohibited by any of the clauses in the Memorandum or Articles of Association of the Society. 33.11. It is contended by the plaintiffs that the splitting of loans into two components and creating security in two different methods, were intended to defeat the provisions of the Indian Stamp Act and that therefore, the same was opposed to public policy. 33.12. It is true that if a registered deed of simple mortgage had been created for the entire loan amount of Rs.5 crores, an enormous amount would have been charged towards stamp duty and registration charges. The splitting of the loans into two components, reduced the incidence of stamp duty and registration charges. 33.13. But there is a distinction, well recognised and approved in law between tax planning and tax evasion. For Centuries, law has approved that a man can arrange his affairs in such a manner that the incidence of tax is kept to the minimum. This is too well settled a proposition, hardly requiring the citation of any authorities. 33.14. Moreover, the clauses contained in the loan application and the Loan Agreement, indicate that the stamp duty and registration charges are payable only by the borrower. Therefore, the splitting of the loans actually enured to the benefit of the plaintiff. After having enjoyed a benefit on account of a Scheme devised by the Society for reducing the incidence of tax, the plaintiff is now shedding crocodile tears for the State for losing stamp duty. Nothing prevented the plaintiff from being a honest duty payer, by insisting at the time of sanction of loan that they would execute a deed of simple mortgage for the entire amount of the loan. 33.15. The contention that the splitting of loans was opposed to public policy, is also frivolous. I have already dealt with the question of public policy, while dealing with issue No.12. For a contract to be hit by Section 23 of the Contract Act, the Court should consider the same to be opposed to public policy. In my careful consideration, I have found that it was not opposed to public policy. The splitting of loans was not intended to defeat the provisions of any law, especially the law relating to stamp duty. The law recognises the creation of mortgage by many methods. The law itself imposes an obligation to pay stamp duty and to register a deed of mortgage, only if it is a deed of simple mortgage. The Stamp Act , does not impose an obligation for payment of stamp duty, in respect of mortgages by deposit of title deeds, despite the fact that the creation of such a mortgage is well recognised. When law gives several options to a person, one of which carrying an incidence of tax/duty and another not carrying such an incidence, it is up to that person to choose any one of the two options. The choice of that option where there is no incidence of stamp duty or tax, cannot be said to be to defeat the provisions of law. Therefore, I hold on issue No.11 that the splitting of loans into two components and the creation of two different mortgages, was neither violative of the Memorandum and Articles of Association nor opposed to public policy, for evasion of stamp duty. Thus, Issue No.(11) is also answered against the plaintiffs. Issue No.(14): 34.1. The 14th issue is whether such an unregistered loan agreement containing clauses usually found in a simple registered mortgage deed, namely payment schedule, acceleration clause, penal interest etc., should be stamped under the Stamp Act and registered under the Registration Act as a simple mortgage. 34.2. As we have already seen, the plaintiff firm applied for the sanction of a loan of Rs.5 crores. It was sanctioned by the Society primarily on the understanding that the suit property will be mortgaged. While doing so, the loan was split into two components, one for a sum of Rs.25 lakhs, to be secured by a registered deed of simple mortgage and another for a sum of Rs.4.75 crores, to be secured by a mortgage by deposit of title deeds. 34.3. The parties entered into a Loan Agreement on 01.8.1995, filed as Ex.P4. This Loan Agreement did not contain any payment schedule. It merely stipulated that the lender will charge interest at 24% per annum on both components of loan. Clause 4 of the Agreement which is supposed to indicate the monthly instalments, was partly scored off, not by the defendants but by PW1. Ex.P4 did not contain even a single clause that would have attracted stamp duty and registration. As a matter of fact, Ex.P4 came into existence only on 01.8.1995, after the execution of the deed of simple mortgage on 31.7.1995. But the deed of simple mortgage was presented for registration only on 02.8.1995. It was filed as Ex.P2. It is only this registered deed, which contained the date for payment, acceleration clause, penal interest clause etc. Therefore, the plaintiffs have wrongly presumed that the unregistered Loan Agreement contained these clauses. 34.4. In any event, this issue raised by the plaintiffs, is wholly irrelevant. If a document is not duly stamped and registered, despite the law requiring the same to be stamped and registered, it is inadmissible in evidence. But in this case, it was the plaintiff who filed the Loan Agreement dated 01.8.1995 as Ex.P4 and the registered mortgage deed as Ex.P2 and the Memorandum and Deposit of Title Deeds as Ex.P3. The defendants did not seek to mark them. In fact, the plaintiffs filed the unregistered Loan Agreement, for the purpose of assailing Clauses 17 and 18 of the same. If Ex.P4 is thrown out as inadmissible in evidence for want of stamp duty and registration, automatically the challenge to clauses 17 and 18 of the same should also be thrown out, as the Agreement itself will not be on record. 34.5. Therefore, on Issue No.(14), I hold that at the outset, the unregistered Loan Agreement did not contain any clause including payment schedule, which made the document assessable to stamp duty and requiring registration. This issue is accordingly answered against the plaintiff. Issue Nos.(9) & (13): 35.1. The ninth issue is whether the Benefit Society Limited is not entitled to bring the mortgaged property for sale in public auction without intervention of the Court for realisation of its dues under the loan obtained by M/s.Ramu & Co., and the thirteenth issue is whether the first defendant mortgagee can claim power of sale without intervention of Court by any process other than conferment of the power in the registered mortgage deed as per Section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act. 35.2. Issue Nos.(9) and (13) actually overlap with each other and hence, they are taken up together. The answer to these issues are to be found partly on facts and partly in law. 35.3. There are 3 documents which will throw light upon these issues. The first document is Ex.P2, the registered deed of simple mortgage dated 31.7.1995. The second document is the Loan Agreement dated 01.8.1995 marked as Ex.P4. The third document is the Deed of Power of Attorney dated 01.8.1995, filed as Ex.D44. For the present, I am ignoring Ex.P3, the Memorandum of Deposit of Title Deeds created for securing the loan of Rs.4.75 crores. 35.4. The case on hand falls under Section 69(1)(c) of the Transfer of Property Act. Ex.P2 is a registered deed of simple mortgage, which contains a clause empowering the mortgagee to sell the property without the intervention of Court. The property is situate in Chennai. Therefore, all conditions found in Section 69(1)(c) stand satisfied. Even the plaintiffs have no quarrel about the power of the mortgagee to bring the property to sale without the intervention of the Court, at least in so far as the loan amount of Rs.25 lakhs is concerned. 35.5. The only contention of the plaintiff which had led to Issue Nos.(9) and (13) is that in respect of the loan amount of Rs.4.75 crores, the conditions stipulated in Section 69(1)(c) are not satisfied and that therefore, for the recovery of this part of the loan, the mortgagee cannot exercise the power of sale without the intervention of the Court. 35.6. But the above contention has no basis in view of two facts viz., (a) that under Clauses 17 and 18 of Ex.P4 (Loan Agreement), the mortgagee is entitled to appropriate the sale proceeds first towards the discharge of the second loan; and (b) that the mortgagor also executed a deed of irrevocable power of attorney under Ex.D44, enabling the mortgagee to sell the property as the agent of the mortgagor. There is no law which prohibits a mortgagee from doing this. If the contention of the plaintiff that the right of sale without the intervention of Court should have been exercised by the mortgagee only for the amount of Rs.25 lakhs is accepted, it would lead to ridiculous consequences. In other words, if the plaintiffs contention is accepted, the mortgagee should first sell the property at his cost, recover only Rs.25 lakhs with interest and return the excess sale consideration to the mortgagor and thereafter, file a suit and wait for a preliminary decree, a final decree and execution to realise the same amount. I am sure the plaintiff would not choose such a course of action, if they had advanced money to somebody. 35.7. Even plaintiffs concede that the mortgagee was entitled to bring the property to sale without the intervention of Court, in terms of Section 69(1)(c) , in so far as the loan amount of Rs.25 lakhs is concerned. Once this is conceded, then the only question that would arise for consideration is whether the mortgagee could have retained with them, the balance sale consideration over and above this amount of Rs.25 lakhs with interest or whether they should have refunded that money to the mortgagor. In other words, the question whether the mortgagee is entitled to invoke Section 69(1) will not survive, if the mortgagee is found to have a statutory right at least in respect of one portion of the amount. The only question that would survive is as to what should happen to the balance of sale consideration. This question is answered by Clauses 17 and 18 of Ex.P4. 35.8. Unfortunately, the plaintiffs have misunderstood and mixed up two independent questions, one relating to the right of sale under Section 69 and another relating to appropriation of the sale proceeds. Once the plaintiffs agree that the mortgagee has a right of sale under Section 69 , then the only question left to be decided would be about appropriation of the sale proceeds. Apart from the fact that the mortgagee had the right of appropriation, under Clauses 17 and 18 of Ex.P4, it is to be noted that the plaintiffs have not come up with any suit for refund of the balance consideration. Even assuming without admitting for the sake of argument that the entire sale proceeds could not have been appropriated, the only remedy open to the plaintiff is to seek refund of money, but not to question the sale itself. 35.9. Therefore, I hold on Issue No.(9) that the mortgagee was entitled to bring the property to sale in public auction without the intervention of the Court, for the realisation of the dues of M/s.Ramu & Co. I also hold on Issue No.(13) that the mortgagee was entitled to claim the power of sale without the intervention of Court, both by virtue of the express clause in the registered deed of simple mortgage as per Section 69 and also by virtue of the deed of irrevocable power of attorney filed as Ex.D44. This power of attorney was coupled with interest and hence irrevocable. Issue Nos.(6) & (7)
	36.1. The sixth issue framed for consideration is as to whether any proper auction was conducted by the second and third defendants on 13.12.1999. The seventh issue is as to whether any bungling had taken place in the auction sale. 36.2. Briefly stated, the auction held on 13.12.1999 is assailed by the plaintiffs on the following grounds:- 36.4. But, as I have pointed out earlier, the persons, who signed and verified the pleadings in all these suits, stayed away from the witness box. The evidence of PW1 is of no avail at all for four reasons, namely (a) he was not present at the time of auction; (b) he claimed to be not a partner even at the time when the affidavit of undertaking was signed on 30.1.1999; (c) he blinked at every question in cross examination and repeatedly said that he could not answer many of the questions without referring to documents, indicating thereby a tendency not to connect the bat with the ball, but to call every throw as a no ball; and (d) his cross examination itself could not be completed, as he failed to appear for further cross examination after 12.12.2006, forcing this Court to close his evidence on 31.10.2008 for non appearance. Therefore, all averments contained in the plaints, relating to the manner of conduct of auction, have to be assessed, keeping in view the fact that no evidence whatsoever, worth any consideration was let in by the plaintiffs. No one is entitled to expect that a lender like Egmore Benefit Society should have waited for Arunagiri to file a special leave petition against the judgment in O.S.A.No.237 of 1999 and also awaited the outcome of the special leave petition to bring the property to sale. 36.5. As a matter of fact, the plaintiffs have exhibited such a cantankerous attitude ever since 1997 that any attempt on the part of the Egmore Benefit Society to bring the property to sale, proved to be a nightmare. In the revision arising out of an interlocutory order in the first civil suit, the partnership firm filed an affidavit of undertaking on the file of this Court on 30-1-1999 and got the auction postponed beyond 30.4.1999. After making this Court pass an order in C.R.P.No.1999 of 1998, the plaintiff had the audacity and unscrupulous attitude to challenge the order passed in the civil revision petition, by way of a special leave petition before the Supreme Court. After allowing the special leave petition to be dismissed as withdrawn, the plaintiff sought extension of time beyond 30.4.1999, but the application C.M.P. No.7283 of 1999 was dismissed on 30.4.1999. The special leave petition against the said order was rejected by the Supreme Court on 13.5.1999. Therefore, there was no impediment for the Society to conduct an auction in May 1999 and hence the Society actually advertised on 10.5.1999 for a fresh auction on 31.5.1999. 36.6. For this auction sale, there was 21 days time. But, this time was effectively made use of, by the plaintiff, to set up a retired partner by name A.Arunagiri to come up with C.S.No.339 of 1999 during summer vacation in the last week of May 1999 and stall the auction sale. A.Arunagiri obtained an injunction on 25.5.1999, restraining the Society from going ahead with the auction on 31.5.1999. Eventually, his application for injunction was dismissed on 25.10.1999. Thereafter, he filed an appeal in O.S.A.No.237 of 1999 in which he filed an affidavit of undertaking on 17.11.1999. But, as had become the usual practice of the plaintiff and its partners, this commitment was also not honoured. This conduct on the part of A.Arunagiri invited the wrath of the Division Bench, when O.S.A.No.237 of 1999 came up for hearing. 36.7. The copy of the order passed by the Division Bench comprising of R.Jayasimha Babu and P.Sathasivam,JJ on 29.11.1999 is filed as Ex.D.24. This order of the Division Bench contains an extract of the affidavit filed by A.Arunagiri on 17.11.1999. It will be useful to extract the affidavit filed on 17.11.1999 by A.Arunagiri before the Division Bench, which forms part of Ex.D24 : 36.8. After the above affidavit of undertaking filed by A.Arunagiri on 17.11.1999 before the Division Bench, followed the same fate as that of the earlier affidavit of undertaking filed on 30.1.1999 by P.W.1 in C.R.P.No.1999 of 1998, the Division Bench imposed costs of Rs.1 lakh upon A.Arunagiri and directed the said amount to be paid to the High Court Legal Services Authority. Thereafter, the appeal O.S.A.No.237 of 1999 itself was dismissed on 29.11.1999 with costs of Rs.25,000/- to be paid to the Egmore Benefit Society. 36.9. It appears that A.Arunagiri was represented by one Senior Counsel, when the affidavit of undertaking was filed before the Division Bench. Subsequently, the counsel was changed and a new Senior Counsel requested the leave of the Division Bench to give a go-by to the affidavit already filed and to argue the appeal afresh. After hearing the arguments, the Division Bench dismissed the appeal by order dated 29.11.1999 filed as Ex.D.24, recording its displeasure at the contumacious conduct on the part of the appellant. Some of the portions of the judgment of the Division Bench are to be extracted, to see whether all the high-sounding principles of law argued before me have any basis or require any consideration. Therefore, the observations of the Division Bench are extracted as follows : In the affidavit filed by the appellant before the learned trial judge in May 1999, it was averred in paragraph 6 thus : 36.15. Ex.D.35 shows that the higher offeror NMR Investments Private Limited paid 25% of the bid amount viz., Rs.2.25 crores, by way of (i) Cash of Rs.1 lakh (ii)Cheque for Rs.1.5 Crores and (iii)Cheque for Rs.74 lakhs, both cheques drawn on Global Trust Bank Limited, Chennai -4. 36.16. After the conduct of the auction, the plaintiffs issued a notice dated 16.12.1999, a copy of which was marked as Ex.D.36. It is pertinent to note that the plaintiffs did not choose to mark the document. It was marked by the defendants, while cross examining P.W.1. There is no indication in Ex.D.36 as to whether any of the partners of the plaintiff-firm was present at the time of the auction. On the contrary, the details called for by the plaintiff-firm in their notice Ex.D.36 give an indication that none of the representatives of the plaintiff was present at the time of the auction. 36.17. Therefore, all allegations made by the plaintiff that goondas were present and that genuine bidders were prevented from participating and that the Directors of the mortgagee acted in collusion with the highest bidder, become hearsay evidence and not direct evidence. P.W.1 himself admitted in cross-examination (towards the closing portion of his cross examination) that he was not present at the time of the auction. There is a specific admission by PW-1 to this effect. This is why the plaintiff did not raise these points in their earliest notice Ex.D.36 and the plaintiff did not even choose to mark this notice on their side as the plaintiff's exhibit. 36.18. As I have already pointed out, the averments relating to incidents that allegedly happened at the time of the auction, are narrated in the plaint, which is signed and verified by B.Sudha. She did not go to the witness box. Even Ex.D36 notice issued on 16.12.1999, within three days of the auction sale, was signed by another partner by name B.Gurubackiam and not by K.Balasikhamani, who deposed as P.W.1 on behalf of the plaintiffs. Therefore apart from the fact that P.W.1 had no personal knowledge of what actually transpired on the date of the auction, he was also not competent to speak about it and none of these averments was also made at the earliest point of time. Therefore, the allegations that some unlawful elements were present and that genuine bidders were prevented from effective participation and that a few bidders formed themselves into a cartel and acted in collusion with the mortgagee are all cooked up for the purpose of this case and these averments are obviously added as pepper and salt at the time of filing the plaint into Court, presumably on legal (or illegal) advise. 36.19. This takes us to the next question as to whether the payment by the highest bidder, of 25% of the amount by way of cheque, is a proper payment or not. The auction notice filed as Ex.P26 shows that it contained a condition under Clause No.5 to the effect that the purchaser shall pay into the hands of the auctioneer, immediately after the property is knocked down, a deposit of 25% of the purchase money inclusive of cash deposit if any paid before the commencement of the auction. This condition is similar to the one found in Order 21 Rule 84(1) of the Code of Civil Procedure . Under the said Rule, the person to be the purchaser of an immovable property in an auction, shall pay immediately after the declaration of sale, a deposit of 25% of the amount of the purchase money to the officer conducting the sale. Therefore drawing my attention to Section 4(1) of the Code, it was contended by the learned counsel for the plaintiff that even in a sale in exercise of the power conferred by Section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act, the procedure prescribed in Order XXI, Rule 84 should be followed to its letter and spirit. In this connection, the learned counsel for the plaintiff relies upon a decision of the Bombay High court in Satyapal v. Rukayyabai (AIR 1993 Bom. 203). 36.20. But it appears that the question whether the procedure prescribed under Order 21 Rule 84 (or for that matter rules 65 to 68 including) of the Code of Civil Procedure would apply mutatis  mutandis to a sale of this nature, is actually in a grey area. 36.21. The plaintiffs rely upon a decision of a Division Bench of this Court in C.N.Paramasivam v. Sunrise Plaza (2010 (3) CTC 372), wherein, it was held that the deposit of 25% of the bid amount in cash by the auction purchaser was mandatory and that payment by way of cheque at that point of time would not satisfy the requirements. The said decision arose out of a sale made in pursuance of a certificate of recovery issued by the Debts Recovery Tribunal under the RDDB Act of 1993. By virtue of Section 29 of Act 51 of 1993, the second schedule to the Income Tax Act, 1961 is applicable to all sales made by the Recovery Officers. Rule 57 of the Second Schedule to the Income Tax Act is similar to Rule 84 of Order 21 of the Code. Therefore, following a decision of the Supreme Court in Rao Mahmood Ahmed Khan v. Ranbeer Singh (AIR 1985 SC 2195), the Division Bench held in C.N.Paramasivam 's case (cited supra) that the deposit of 25% of the bid amount by way of cheque, was not a valid tender. The reason why the Division Bench came to such a conclusion was that the decision of the Supreme Court in Rao Mahmood Ahmed Khan's case arose out Rule 285-D of the UP Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Rules, which was in pari materia with Order 21 Rule 84. The plaintiffs also rely upon a decision of R.Banumathi, J., in Annamalai Vs. Nagoorgani 2006 (5) CTC 649 which arose directly under Order 21, Rule 84 in a sale in execution of a decree. 36.22. But the above decisions, whether they be of the Supreme Court or of this Court, arose out of cases where the sales were governed either by the Code itself or by statutory Rules which were identical with or in pari materia with the provisions of Order 21 Rule 84. Therefore it was but natural for the Courts to think that if something is prescribed by law to be done in a particular manner, it shall be done only in that manner and not otherwise. But a sale under Section 69 (1)(c) of the Transfer of Property Act, is not regulated by any procedure prescribed by any statutory rule. Therefore, whether a Court should adopt the same reasoning as applicable to sales which are regulated by statutory rules, is a question that requires my consideration. 36.23. The mortgagee contends that the procedure prescribed by law for an auction sale in execution of a decree, cannot be imported to an auction sale conducted in pursuance of a statutory right conferred upon a mortgagee with reference to the terms of a contract between the Mortgagor and the Mortgagee. In support of such a contention, the defendants rely upon the decision of the Patna High Court in Durga Bhavani Cold Storage v. Bihar State Financial Corporation (AIR 2002 Patna 46). In that case, it was held that a sale under Section 29 of the State Financial Corporations Act, is in the nature of a commercial sale and that therefore considerations governing such a sale cannot be the same as those regulated by Order 21 Rule 84. 36.24. Though the decision of the Patna High Court may not fully support the case of the defendants, inasmuch as a sale under Section 29 of the State Financial Corporations Act, is also regulated by statutory provisions, there is a division bench decision of this court in P.S.Duraikannoo v. M.Saravan Chettiar (AIR 1963 Mad 468) which supports the case of the defendants. The facts out of which the said decision arose are almost similar to the case on hand. It was also a case where the mortgagee brought the mortgaged property to sale by public auction through M/s.Murray and Co., in exercise of the power of sale conferred in terms of Section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act. The sale took place on 04.06.1957 and highest bid was for Rs.15,000/-. The person who was declared as the highest bidder did not have sufficient funds to make the initial deposit of 25%, though the terms and conditions of sale mandated such a payment on the spot. The down payment that should have been made was Rs.3,750/-. But the highest bidder made payment of Rs.1,000/- on the spot and paid Rs.2,000/- at his house, later in the day. The balance of Rs.750/- was paid only on the following day. Thus the spot payment of 25% itself was not made as per the terms of the auction. This failure became aggravated with the auction purchaser failing to pay the balance 75% of the sale consideration also within 15 days as stipulated in the terms of conditions of auction. In the mean time, the mortgagor challenged the auction sale on the ground that the property was sold for 50% of the market value. Since the auction purchaser did not pay 75% of consideration, the mortgagee informed the mortgagor that he was prepared to cancel the sale if the mortgagor brought any one with a higher offer. But the mortgagor could not. In the mean time, the highest bidder sought extension of time and extension of time was granted. After he was granted extension of time, the mortgagor brought a new offer. Therefore, the mortgagee refused to confirm the sale in favour of the highest bidder. Hence, the highest bidder filed a suit for specific performance. When the matter reached the High Court, the Division Bench pointed out the distinction between a private sale and a sale in execution of a decree and the Division Bench highlighted the duties and obligations of the mortgagee in such cases. 36.25. The important principles that were laid down by the Division Bench in P.S.Duraikannoo 's case (cited supra) were : 36.26. To come to the above conclusions, the Division Bench in P.S.Duraikannoo, quoted a passage from the decision of Lindley.L.J. in Kennedy v. De Trafford (1896) 1 Ch.762 at Page 772 which is as follows:- 36.27. A passage from Halsbury, extracted in the decision of the Division Bench in P.S.Duraikannoo, is also of relevance and hence it is extracted as follows:- 36.31. The question whether the mortgagee acted as a prudent man would do and whether the mortgagee acted bonafide, has to be seen in the light of the facts pleaded and the evidence adduced. 36.32. As I have already pointed out, PW1 was not present at the venue of the auction and it is admitted by him during cross examination. No other partner of the firm, past or present, has come forward to depose that he/she was present and that there was any collusion between the mortgagee and the auction purchaser. Though the plaintiffs plead that the auction sale was fraudulent and was a product of fraud and collusion, even the pleadings of the plaintiffs are not sufficient to uphold any fraud or collusion. Under Order VI, Rule 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure , a party who pleads mis-representation, fraud, breach of trust, wilful default, or undue influence, should give particulars with dates and items, if necessary in the pleading itself. In other words, there must be special pleadings, whenever fraud and collusion are alleged. In P.L.Chakrapani Naidu v. T.Gopal Mudaliar (1972 (2) MLJ 390), a Division Bench of this Court held that the mere use of the words fraud and collusion in the plaint meant nothing and that there must be positive proof of the same and that the burden of proving fraud and collusion was on the mortgagors. In fact, the Division Bench noted in that case that sufficient number of bidders were not forthcoming because of the obstructive tactics adopted by the mortgagors. While following the said decision , another Division Bench held in Shri Bhagwandas/B.Kishore v. K.G.Purushothaman & Others (1996 (1) LW 372) that the burden is entirely upon the mortgagor to plead and prove fraud. Even if an inference of fraud can be made if the price for which the property is sold is so low, the burden of proof is still on the mortgagor. The observations of the Division Bench in paragraph 25 of the decision in Shri Bhagwandas are as follows: The plaints in all the five cases, do not contain any special pleadings. On the contrary, they contain very vague pleadings. The plaintiffs actually want fraud and collusion to be inferred from the circumstances. The circumstances pleaded by them are: 36.33. From the decision of the Division Bench of this Court in P.S.Duraikannoo, it is clear that the acceptance of cheques towards payment of 25% of the sale consideration by the highest offeror and the belated payment of the balance of 75% of the consideration, could at the most be termed as an extension of time granted by the mortgagee to the highest bidder. But the law laid down by the Division Bench is that in a sale under section 69 , the mortgagee has the power to grant extension of time and even vary the terms of the contract. Therefore, the acceptance of payment of 25% by way of cheques and the belated payment of 75%, by themselves cannot be termed as fraudulent. 36.34. Before taking up the reasons pleaded for non-payment of 75% of the consideration within the time stipulated, let me first take up the question of adequacy of sale consideration. It is too fundamental to state that inadequacy of consideration cannot be a ground to set aside any contract. But sometimes the price accepted by a mortgagee might indicate whether he acted bonafide or as a prudent person or not. Therefore, let me see whether in accepting the offer made by the highest bidder, the mortgagee acted as a prudent person and whether their action was bonafide or not. 36.35. In the written statement, the Egmore Benefit Society has taken a plea that they fixed the upset price at Rs.19 crores and that when the bidding commenced there were no takers. Therefore the upset price had to be brought down and eventually, the bidding commenced from Rs.7.80 crores. The participants in the auction started showing interest only after the bidding started at Rs.7.80 crores. In the bidding, the price went up to Rs.9 crores. There is no allegation in any of the five plaints that the mortgagee stopped the auction at this stage. On the contrary, the Society has taken a consistent stand that there was no one to offer more than Rs.9 crores. The only option that the mortgagee had at that time was either to accept Rs.9 crores or to cancel the auction and to issue a fresh advertisement. If they had chosen the second option, the Society would never have recovered a single penny. The way the plaintiffs have spent lakhs of rupees on litigating and depriving the Society of their legitimate dues, shows that Egmore Benefit Society which was a non-banking financial company and which was answerable to thousands of depositors, was simply harassed by the plaintiff after taking a huge amount as a loan. I shall deal with this aspect separately, as it is a story by itself and it requires an independent chapter. Therefore, the acceptance of the amount of Rs.9 crores and the confirmation of the sale by the mortgagee, cannot be said to be a fraudulent act. 36.36. For testing whether the conduct of the mortgagee in this case was bona fide and resembled that of a prudent person, it may be useful to take note of a very scholarly decision rendered by Ramasami.,J, of this court way back in 1955 in V.Narasimhachariar v. Egmore Benefit Society (AIR 1955 Mad 135). In that case, the learned Judge listed the rights, duties and obligations of a mortgagee under Section 69 in the form of certain do's and dont's. They are as follows:- 36.38. Therefore, the payment of 25% of the bid amount by way of cheques, did not vitiate the auction, in view of the leverage granted to a mortgagee, on whom, a power of sale is conferred by the deed of mortgage in terms of Section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act. I have already cited the decision of Ramasamy,J in V.Narasimhachariar and the decision of the Division Bench in P.S.Duraikannoo, which recognise the right of the mortgagee even to vary the terms of the contract. I have also discussed the decision of the Supreme Court in which the scope of the expression 'immediately' appearing in Order XXI Rule 84 was expounded. The fact-scenario which compelled the mortgagee to accept cheques towards payment of 25% of the sale consideration, goes to show that the mortgagee (i) acted bona fide; (ii) acted as a prudent person would do; and (iii) acted in the interests of the society, which was answerable to thousands of depositors, without sacrificing the interests of the borrower. 36.39. This takes us to the next question as to whether the non payment of 75% of the sale consideration, within 15 days of the auction sale, vitiated the sale. 36.40. It is admitted by the plaintiffs that all along, some interim order or the other, had been operating against the mortgagee and the auction purchaser. Even according to Mr.N.Jothi, learned counsel for the plaintiff, there was no interim order only for a period of 77 days from 12.5.2001 to 27.7.2001 and that there was no impediment for the auction purchaser to pay the balance of 75%, during this period of 77 days. It is also admitted that at the time when the auction sale took place, there was a requirement for a certificate of no objection to be obtained from the Appropriate Authority under Section 269UC of the Income Tax Act, 1961. There is no dispute about two facts namely (i) that an application was made for the no objection certificate; and (ii) that under Exx.P15 and P16, the counsel for the plaintiff firm requested the Appropriate Authority as well as the Sub-Registrar not to proceed with the grant of a no objection certificate and the registration of the property. 36.41. The special leave petitions filed by the plaintiff firm against the judgments of this Court dismissing the interim applications for injunction, were dismissed by the Supreme Court on 12.5.2001 as seen from Ex.P22. Immediately, the plaintiff firm sent a letter dated 9.6.2001 marked as Ex.P23 offering to redeem only the loan under the simple mortgage and also enclosing a pay order for an amount of Rs.48,95,695/-. Again the plaintiff sent another letter dated 11.6.2001 under Ex.P24 seeking redemption. After the mortgagee sent a reply under Ex.P25, the plaintiff firm sent a notice dated 13.7.2001 under Ex.P27 to the Appropriate Authority under the Income Tax Act . Simultaneously, telegrams were also sent under Ex.P29 series, to the mortgagee and the auction purchaser as well as the auctioneer and the Appropriate Authority. Again by a notice dated 08.8.2001, filed as Ex.P30, the firm cautioned the Appropriate Authority not to issue the no objection certificate. In the meantime, an order was passed on 6.8.2001 by this Court to maintain status quo. This order of status quo continues till date. The net result is that the no objection certificate from the Appropriate Authority never came. Therefore, the auction purchaser cannot be blamed for not paying 75% of the sale consideration. 36.42. In view of the foregoing discussion, I hold that the mortgagee acted bona fide in the conduct of the auction sale on 13.12.1999. They also acted bona fide in accepting the payment of 25% of the bid amount by way of cheques from the highest bidder. There is no doubt that the mortgagee acted as a prudent person, both before and after the conduct of the auction. In fact, I would have considered the mortgagee as imprudent, if he had missed this opportunity to bring this property to sale at that time. 36.43. Once it is found that the twin tests of bona fides and prudence are satisfied, then the auction sale cannot be impeached. Apart from the fact that the allegations contained in the plaints, at the most constitute allegations of irregularities which could not also be established by the plaintiffs, I should also point out that the right of the mortgagee to vary the terms of the contract and to accept payments from the auction purchaser, is now well recognised. It is especially so in the facts and circumstances of the case, where the conduct (or misconduct) of the mortgagor stares at one's face. Therefore, I hold on Issue Nos.(6) and (7) that a proper auction was conducted and that there was no bungling. The allegations made by the plaintiffs about the auction do not either constitute fraud and collusion, nor has the plaintiff led any evidence worth consideration for holding the auction to be fraudulent and collusive. Therefore, Issue Nos.(6) and (7) are also held against the plaintiffs. 36.44. That would leave me with one incidental question as to whether the mortgagee can now convey the property to the auction purchaser or not. As we have already seen, the auction was conducted on 13.12.1999. The first defendant in C.S.No.995 of 1999 was the highest bidder who offered Rs.9 crores for the property. He had paid Rs.2.25 crores on the date of the auction. The balance of Rs.6.75 crores was liable to be paid by the auction purchaser within 15 days. The last date for payment was 28.12.1999. But within 12 days of the conduct of the auction, the borrower firm moved C.S.No.995 of 1999 and obtained an interim order to maintain status quo. Therefore, the auction purchaser did not pay the balance. 36.45. It is admitted on both sides that from the date of auction till this date, some interim order or the other is operating against the defendants, except for a brief period of 77 days in the year 2001. But I have already found, in the preceding portions of this part of the judgment, that the auction purchaser has satisfactorily explained the reason for non-payment during this period of 77 days. I have also found that in such sales by mortgagees in exercise of the power under Section 69(1)(c) , a right inheres in the mortgagee to vary the terms of the contract. This right is recognised by this Court, following English precedents. 36.46. Today, the mortgagor cries foul that if the auction is now confirmed by the mortgagee, an unintended benefit of retention of such a huge money by the auction purchaser for such a long period of time of more than 12 years would accrue to them. It is contended by the learned counsel for the plaintiff that there was no impediment for the auction purchaser to deposit the money, even when an interim order was in force. According to the learned counsel for the plaintiff, the auction purchaser neither took steps to get the interim order vacated nor remitted the money even when there was no interim order for 77 days. Therefore, it is contended that it would be highly inequitable to allow the auction purchaser to pay the balance now and get a sale deed executed. 36.47. But I think the mortgagor cannot make an issue of it, as it is their own making. In any case, neither the mortgagee nor the auction purchaser has come up with any suit or counter claim before me asking for a decree for the execution of the sale deed. Only when such a plea is made, I can decide whether the auction purchaser could be allowed at this distance of time to pay the balance amount and have the sale deed executed or not. Since there is no suit or counter claim either by the mortgagee or by the auction purchaser for execution of the sale deed, I do not wish to venture to predict or profess what the mortgagee and the auction purchaser should do. As I have pointed out, the law permits the mortgagee to vary the terms of the contract and to do what is in his best interest, without sacrificing the interest of the mortgagor. Therefore, the mortgagee has several options today. He may choose to receive the balance of sale consideration together with the same rate of interest as they had charged on the mortgagor viz., 24% per annum from 13.12.1999 till the date of payment, so that the purchaser does not walk away with the benefit of 14 years of litigation and the mortgagor also does not successfully stake a claim for damages on this ground. Another option open to the mortgagee is to cancel the auction held on 13.12.1999 and bring the property to fresh auction. I do not know which option the mortgagee will choose. I also do not know whether the option chosen by the mortgagee is acceptable to the auction purchaser or not. But, these are mere questions of academic importance in these five suits, since the mortgagee and the auction purchaser have not come up with any plea. 36.48. I should clarify that Issue Nos.(6) and (7) have been decided by me, on the pleadings and evidence available before me and also on an objective assessment of the rights of the mortgagor. I have found on facts that the auction was conducted in a fair and proper manner and that there was no bungling in the auction. But, it is not for me to say what the mortgagee and the auction purchaser should now do. Therefore, I leave it to the wisdom of the mortgagee to choose any of the above options, since the auction purchaser has not come up before me seeking any relief. Issue Nos. (10) & (17): 37.1. Issue No.(10) is whether M/s.Ramu & Co., or any of its partners, past or present are entitled to redeem the registered simple mortgage for Rs.25 lakhs alone, without discharging the loan secured by equitable mortgage by deposit of title deeds for Rs.4,75,00,000/-. Issue No.(17) is whether the plaintiff is entitled to redeem the registered simple mortgage for Rs.25 lakhs without complying with the condition imposed or ignoring the clog of redemption created by way of an unregistered agreement. 37.2. In normal circumstances, a mortgagor is entitled to redeem one mortgage (of his choice) before another, in the absence of a contract to the contrary. But in the case on hand, we have already seen that the parties are bound by the terms and conditions of Agreement between themselves. Clause 18 of the Loan Agreement filed as Ex.P4, obliges the mortgagor to redeem the simple mortgage only after they have satisfied in full, all the amounts outstanding, secured by deposit of title deeds. 37.3. Clause 18 is assailed by the plaintiffs as a clog on redemption and hence invalid. But, at the time when the amount was borrowed, the plaintiff did not think so. Even at the time when the previous litigations were fought, the plaintiff did not think so. Suddenly, they have found that their right to redeem the mortgage was affected by Clause 18. As a matter of fact, if the plaintiff had objected to the clause even at that time, the Egmore Benefit Society would have insisted upon a simple mortgage being created for the whole amount of Rs.5 crores, at the cost and consequences of the plaintiff. But the plaintiff chose to turn clause 18 to their advantage at that time and agreed for creation of simple mortgage only for Rs.25 lakhs. Therefore, today, it is not open to the plaintiff to brand Clause 18 as a clog on redemption. 37.4. The contention of the plaintiff that there is a clog on redemption, arises out of a misunderstanding of what a clog on the equity of redemption is. The principle behind the rule against a clog on the equity of redemption, is stated by Lindley, M.R., in Snatley vs. Wilde (1899 (2) Ch. 474) in the following words:- 37.5. The doctrine relating to clog on the equity of redemption is a rule of justice, equity and good conscience. It was pointed out by the Supreme Court in Ganga Dhar vs. Shankar Lal (AIR 1958 SC 770) that a mortgage shall always be redeemable and a mortgagor's right to redeem shall neither be taken away nor be limited by any contract between the parties. The same position was reiterated in Jayasingh vs. Krishna Babaji Patil (AIR 1985 SC 1646), where it was held that the right of redemption can come to an end only in a manner known to law. But the Court also pointed out that such extinguishment of the right can take place by a contract between the parties, by a merger or by a statutory provision which debars the mortgagor from redeeming the mortgage. 37.6. What is known in English Law as the equity of redemption, is statutorily conferred upon a mortgagor under Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. Since it is statutorily conferred, the Supreme Court held in Shivdev Singh vs. Sucha Singh (2001 (2) LW 107 (SC)) that such a statutory and legal right cannot be extinguished by an Agreement made at the time of mortgage as part of the mortgage transaction. In other words, what is considered to be a clog on redemption is only a contract made at the time of creating the mortgage, which would have the effect of making the equity of redemption illusory. However, the Court quoted a very interesting passage from Ganga Dhar, which reads as follows:- 37.7. In Shivdev Singh, the Supreme Court cited with approval the opinion rendered in Pomal Kanji Govindji vs. Vrajlal Karsandas Purohit (AIR 1989 SC 436) to the effect that the doctrine "clog on equity of redemption" must be adopted to the reality of situation and individuality of transaction and that the Court should take note of the time, the condition, the price spiral, the term bargain and other obligations in the background of financial conditions of parties. 37.8. Therefore, it is clear that the question whether a condition imposed upon the mortgagor operates as a clog on redemption or not, depends upon the reality of the situation and individuality of the transaction. It also depends upon whether the condition was oppressive on the mortgagor. In N.Ramakrishna Mudali Vs. Official Assignee of Madras (AIR 1922 Madras 390), a Division Bench of this Court was concerned with an appeal that arose out of the dismissal of a suit for redemption. In that case, the property had been brought to sale by the mortgagee in exercise of the power under Section 69 , not only for the recovery of the debt due under the simple mortgage which conferred the power of sale, but also for recovery of a subsequent debt due under a second mortgage created only by deposit of title deeds. Among others, two questions arose for consideration before the Division Bench of this court. One was about the application of Section 52 of the T.P.Act, since the sale took place after the institution of the suit for redemption. The second question was as to whether the power of sale could not have been exercised in respect of both the debts. On the first question, the Division Bench of this Court held that Section 52 of the T.P.Act has no application whatever to a mortgagor, who has given an express power of sale. On the second question, which is exactly the question that is now before me (about clog on redemption), the Division Bench held that the point is covered by both the Act itself and by the Authorities. After referring to Section 69(3) , the Division Bench held that such a sale for recovery of both debts, could, at the most, come within the phraseology employed in Section 69(3) , namely 'damnified by an unauthorised or improper or irregular exercise of power'. Therefore, the Bench concluded that the remedy lies only in damages and not in seeking to set aside the sale. 37.9. Keeping the above principles in mind, if we come back to the facts of the case, it is seen that no condition was imposed either in the Loan Agreement Ex.P4 or in any other document, extinguishing or restricting the right of the plaintiff to redeem the mortgage. Clause 18 of Ex.P4 merely lists out the order in which two mortgages could be redeemed by the plaintiff. Admittedly, there were two mortgages, one by way of a registered deed of simple mortgage and another by way of deposit of title deeds. All that Clause 18 demanded was that the money due under the mortgage by deposit of title deeds should be paid first, before the money due under simple mortgage is paid. The effect of this clause is that the mortgage by deposit of title deeds was to be redeemed first before the simple mortgage was redeemed. Asking a mortgagee to redeem one mortgage before another, is neither a restriction nor a prohibition of the right of redemption. 37.10. What was done by the mortgagee was just to prescribe the order of priorities between two mortgages. The demand for redemption of one before another, is neither a prohibition nor a restriction of the right of redemption. Section 60 which confers this right of redemption, does not distinguish between a simple mortgage and a mortgage by deposit of title deeds. Both are mortgages for the purposes of Section 60 and the mortgagor has a right to redeem both mortgages. Therefore, the prescription made by the mortgagee that the redemption of two mortgages should take place one after another in a particular sequence, cannot be said to be a clog on redemption. 37.11. A Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court held in Har Prasad v. Ram Chandar ((1922) ILR 44 All. 37 (FB)) that where the mortgagor executed a fresh mortgage for further advances and stipulated in the latter mortgage that the prior mortgage cannot be redeemed unless and until the amount due under the subsequent mortgage had been paid, the clause did not operate as a clog on redemption. Similarly, a Full Bench of the Bombay High Court held in Hari vs. Vishnu (28 Bom. 349 (FB)) that a covenant in a subsequent mortgage not to redeem that mortgage without redeeming at the same time a prior debt or mortgage, is not a clog. Therefore, asking a mortgagor to redeem one mortgage before another mortgage cannot, by any stretch of imagination be termed as a clog. 37.12. In Ram Kishore Ahir vs. Ram Nandan Ram (AIR 1928 All. 99) a Division Bench of the Allahabad High court went to the extent of holding that "a mere stipulation to pay an amount due to the mortgagee simultaneously with other amounts due to him and which are charged upon the mortgaged premises, cannot in law be construed to be a clog on the equity of redemption." For taking such a view, the Court referred to two decisions of the House of Lords in Noakes and Co. vs. Rice ((1902) AC 24) and Bradley vs. Carritt ((1903) AC 253). Therefore, the stipulation for redeeming one mortgage before another is not a clog and issues 10 and 17 are to be answered against the plaintiffs. 37.13. In fine, my answer to Issue No.10 would be that M/s.Ramu and Co. or any of its partners, past or present, are not entitled to redeem the registered simple mortgage for Rs.25,00,000/- alone, without discharging the loan secured by equitable mortgage by deposit of title deeds for Rs.4,75,00,000/-. Similarly my answer to Issue No.17 would be that the plaintiff is not entitled to redeem the registered simple mortgage for Rs.25,00,000/- without complying with the condition imposed, since that condition imposed under the unregistered agreement was not a clog on redemption. 37.14. But the above answers may not be full and complete answers to the actual problem on hand. Once I find that borrower firm or any of its past or present partners are not entitled to redeem the registered simple mortgage without repaying the loan secured by the equitable mortgage by deposit of title deeds, then the next question that arises incidentally is as to whether the plaintiffs can be permitted at least to redeem both mortgages together or not. 37.15. According to the Egmore Benefit Society, the plaintiffs have lost their right of redemption of both mortgages in view of the auction sale that had already taken place on 13.12.1999. In this regard, the mortgagee relies upon the provisions of Section 69(3) of the Transfer of Property Act. 37.16. However, the plaintiff claims that the auction sale conducted on 13.12.1999 was not complete in as much as a sale deed has not so far been executed and that therefore, the right of redemption is not yet lost. Mr.S.V.Jayaraman, learned Senior Counsel and Mr.N.Jothi, learned counsel, appearing for the plaintiffs, rely upon the decision of the Supreme Court in Narandas Karsondas v. S.A.Kamtam (AIR 1977 SC 774), for driving home their contention that till a sale deed is executed in favour of the auction purchaser, the right of redemption for the plaintiff is not lost. In other words, their contention is that the defendants cannot press into service, Section 69(3) of the Transfer of Property Act, to deny the plaintiff of the right of redemption, till a sale deed is executed. Since no sale deed is executed so far, in favour of the auction purchaser, they contend that the plaintiff is entitled to redemption. 37.17. In Narandas Karsondas, a cooperative housing society registered under the Maharashtra Cooperative Housing Finance Society Limited mortgaged a land and structure with power to sell. The society failed to repay and the mortgagee conducted a public auction. The highest bidder paid the entire sale consideration and also took possession. The cooperative society raised a dispute in terms of the statutory provisions before the Officer on Special Duty and obtained an injunction. Ultimately, the Officer on Special Duty held that the sale was not vitiated. However, he held that the society was entitled to redeem the property, since the conveyance was not complete. That decision was challenged before the Appellate Court under the Cooperative Societies Act . During the pendency of the appeal, the society got their original plaint amended to include a prayer for redemption. The Appellate Court held that the society was entitled to redemption, as the auction sale was not complete. When the matter went before the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court took note of the proviso to Section 60 , which stated that the right of redemption can be exercised provided it is not extinguished by act of parties. Thereafter, the Supreme Court pointed out the distinction between a contract of sale under the English doctrine and a contract of sale in India. After referring to Section 54 of the Transfer of Property Act and the definition of the word "conveys" in Section 5 of the same Act, the Supreme Court held that the equity of redemption will not be extinguished by a mere contract of sale and that the mortgagor's right to redeem will survive until there has been a completion of sale by a registered deed. In paragraph 35 of the report, the Supreme Court emphasised that "the mortgagor does not lose the right of redemption until the sale is complete by registration". In paragraph 37, the Supreme Court laid down in no uncertain terms that "only on execution of conveyance, ownership passes from one party to another and that therefore, it cannot be held that the mortgagor lost the right of redemption just because the property was put to auction". 37.18. Therefore, it is clear that the plaintiff cannot be said to have lost the right of redemption, solely on the basis of the mandate of Section 69(3) . Once it is conceded that the payment of the balance of 75% of the purchase money has not been made by the auction purchaser, for whatever reasons and once it is admitted that a sale deed has not so far been executed in favour of the auction purchaser, the requirement of Section 69(3) is not satisfied. Therefore, I cannot today hold that the right of redemption was lost to the plaintiffs, merely in the light of Section 69(3) . 37.19. But, it should be pointed out that in Shri Bhagwandas/B.Kishore v. K.G.Purushothaman & Others (1996 (1) LW 372), a Division Bench of this Court held the right of redemption to have been extinguished in terms of Section 69(3) , in a case where the sale deed came to be executed by the mortgagee, after the institution of a suit for redemption. In other words, there was no conveyance, when the suit for redemption was instituted. But, a sale deed was executed after the interim order of injunction was vacated in the suit for redemption. The Division Bench of this Court held that the moment the sale deed was executed, the right got extinguished. 37.20. In any case, the issue is not clinched with Section 69(3) . The right of redemption flows out of Section 60 . The proviso to Section 60 makes it clear that the mortgagor can exercise the right of redemption, so long as it is not extinguished by act of parties. Therefore, the question whether the right of redemption is lost or not, need not necessarily be traced only to Section 69(3) , but can also be traced to the proviso under Section 60 . Hence, let us see whether the borrower firm lost its right of redemption by way of extinguishment, due to act of parties. 37.21. In Parichan Mistry v. Achhiabar Mistry ((1996) 5 SCC 526), the Supreme Court pointed out that when the right of redemption is extinguished by the act of parties, the act must take the shape and observe the formalities which the law prescribes. The Court further held that the expression "act of parties" refers to some transaction subsequent to the mortgage and standing apart from the mortgage transaction. Therefore, it should be seen whether there was any act of parties, that had resulted in the extinguishment of the right. 37.22. We have already seen that an affidavit of undertaking was filed on 30.01.1999 on behalf of the mortgagor, in the civil revision petition, agreeing and undertaking to pay the amount indicated in the affidavit itself, on or before 30.4.1999, with a default clause that the failure to pay would result in the property being sold in public auction. There was an attempt to give a goby to this affidavit of undertaking, by filing a special leave petition. Since the attempt failed, an application for extension of time was made, but the same was also rejected. Therefore, the property was advertised for sale in May 1999. Then came the suit filed by A.Arunagiri. In an appeal arising out of the dismissal of the application for injunction, A.Arunagiri also filed an affidavit of undertaking on 17.11.1999. What happened subsequently to this affidavit of undertaking and how one senior counsel after another attempted to bail A.Arunagiri out of the said affidavit of undertaking and how the Division Bench condemned the conduct not only of A.Arunagiri, but also of K.Balasikhamani (PW1), have been highlighted by me elsewhere in this judgment. 37.23. Therefore, it is clear that the mortgagor repeatedly made assurances, not merely to the mortgagee, but also to this Court to make payment before a deadline agreed in common, for the redemption of the property. But, none of these assurances was ever honoured by the mortgagor. On the contrary, the mortgagor and their kith and kin, repeatedly approbated and reprobated before Court. Hence, the mortgagee eventually succeeded in conducting at least one auction on 13.12.1999. 37.24. Keeping in mind the above sequence of events, let us now look at the reliefs sought in these five suits. The prayer in C.S.No.339 of 1999 filed by A.Arunagiri, is only to redeem the simple mortgage for Rs.25.00 Lakhs and not for redemption of the debts due under both mortgages. The relief prayed by the partnership firm in C.S.No.995 of 1999, is not for redemption, but for just declaring that there is no concluded contract between the mortgagee and the auction purchaser. In C.S.No.551 of 2001, the prayer of the borrower firm is only for redemption of the simple mortgage for Rs.25.00 Lakhs and not for the redemption of both mortgages. The reliefs sought in two transfer suits go one step further and seek a declaration that even the registered mortgage deed (simple mortgage deed) dated 31.7.1995 is illegal, null and void and unenforceable. 37.25. Thus, there are actually two suits for redemption, one filed by a retired partner and another filed by the partnership firm itself. But both the suits are only for redemption of one mortgage. It is not even the plea of the plaintiffs in these two suits that they would redeem one mortgage now and redeem the other mortgage later. They have come up with a positive (cantankerous) stand in both these suits that they would redeem only the simple mortgage and that the mortgagee should file a suit for recovery of money due under the second mortgage (which was by deposit of title deeds). Therefore, I cannot grant the relief of redemption to the plaintiffs, when they are vociferous in their stand that they need not seek redemption of the mortgage by deposit of title deeds. 37.26. The partnership firm, which is the mortgagor, has made its position much worse, by not even filing any written statement to the two suits Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003, filed by the retired partners, praying for a declaration that even the simple mortgage is null and void. Apart from the fact that the partnership firm did not file any written statement to the two suits Tr. C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003, the firm let in common evidence in all the five suits. Mr. K.Balasikhamani examined himself as PW1 and marked all documents, in common for all the five suits together. Therefore, the borrower firm demonstrated a commonality of interest with the plaintiffs in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003, where the prayer is for destroying even the simple mortgage deed for Rs.25 lakhs. The culpability of K.Balasikhamani got compounded by the fact that during cross-examination, he even supported the case of the plaintiffs in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003 and sought to mark the koorchits as Exx.P36 and P37. PW1 also marked the urban land tax proceedings as Ex.P39, to support the case of the plaintiffs in Tr.C.S.Nos.2 and 3 of 2003 that even the simple mortgage deed executed for Rs.25 lakhs on 31.7.1995 in favour of the mortgagee was null and void. 37.27. Therefore, I would construe the expression "act of parties" appearing in the proviso to Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, to include the following acts on the part of the plaintiffs:- 37.29. Therefore, it is clear that the first choice for the plaintiffs is to take back their property without paying a single penny. If this is not possible, the plaintiffs are prepared to adopt a very charitable (?) attitude by offering to redeem only the simple mortgage of Rs.25 lakhs and that too with a rate of interest as fixed by this Court in terms of Order XXXIV, Rule 11. They do not wish to redeem the mortgage by deposit of title deeds, which was created for securing the loan of Rs.4.75 crores sanctioned in 1995. This is why the borrower firm has come up with two suits, one for redemption of the simple mortgage and another for a declaration. Simultaneously, they have set up retired partners, who were willing to lend their names, to file suits even to destroy that simple mortgage. Therefore, I am of the view that this condemnable conduct on the part of the mortgagor, would amount to an "act of party", within the meaning of the proviso to Section 60 . 37.30. I am conscious of the fact that the expression "act of parties" appearing in the proviso to Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, has been understood and interpreted by Courts to mean any agreement reached between the mortgagor and the mortgagee subsequent to the mortgage transaction. But, the Courts have not so far confronted such a monstrous situation as the one on hand, where all kinds of tactics have been employed by the mortgagor without any qualms. No Court has so far given a comprehensive and all inclusive definition and interpretation of the expression "act of parties". Therefore, if a new situation demands that the said expression has to be understood in a particular manner, I think it should be done. 37.31. Let me assume for a minute that whatever the mortgagor had done so far, including the abuse of the process of this Court, dishonouring the commitments made before this Court in the form of affidavits of undertaking and repeatedly stalling the exercise of the power of sale by adopting all kinds of tactics, does not fall within the definition of the expression "act of parties". Even then, the plaintiff is not entitled to redemption, as the mortgagor is not seeking redemption of both mortgages, as required by the stipulations contained in the loan agreement filed as Ex.P4. Therefore, even if I wish to grant the relief of redemption to the plaintiffs, I cannot do so, in view of the unwillingness on the part of the mortgagor to redeem both mortgages. This is why Issue Nos.(10) and (17) were framed in such a manner as to see if the plaintiff is entitled to redemption of the simple mortgage alone without discharging the mortgage by deposit of title deeds. I think at least this unwillingness on the part of the mortgagor to redeem one mortgage would certainly fall within the meaning of the expression "act of parties", appearing in the proviso to Section 60 . Even if it does not fall within the meaning of the said expression, it is not possible for this Court to grant a decree for redemption of both mortgages, as the mortgagor does not want it. Any decree, even if passed by me for redemption of both mortgages together with interest at 24% per annum as compounded as per the terms and conditions of the agreement, will not be acceptable to the mortgagor. Apart from the fact that it will not be acceptable to the mortgagor, there is also a grave danger in experimenting it. The danger in passing such a decree is that it will give a handle for the mortgagor to prolong the agony of the mortgagee and the auction purchaser. 37.32. Therefore, in fine, I hold on Issue No.(10) that M/s.Ramu & Co., or any of its partners, past or present, are not entitled to redeem the registered simple mortgage for Rs.25 lakhs without discharging the loan secured by equitable mortgage by deposit of title deeds for Rs.4.75 crores. Similarly, I hold on Issue No.(17) that the plaintiff is not entitled to redeem the registered simple mortgage for Rs.25 lakhs without complying with the condition imposed for redemption of the mortgage created by way of deposit of title deeds. I also hold that the clause contained in the loan agreement is not a clog on redemption. The question of allowing the plaintiff to redeem the both mortgages does not arise, as there is no prayer for the same in any of the suits. But there is actually a prayer contrary to the grant of such a relief. Issue No.(18): 38.1. The 18th and the last issue framed for consideration is as to what relief the plaintiff is entitled for. 38.2. I have already answered all the other issues against the plaintiffs. From the year 1997, the plaintiffs have exhibited a conduct, both inside and outside the Court, which calls for imposition of exemplary costs. By way of recapitulation and easy appreciation, the attitude and conduct of the plaintiffs could be summarised as follows:- 38.3. It must be pointed out that the borrower in this case is not an entity which deserves some sympathy. The borrower was engaged in the business of construction and development of properties. The borrowing was for commercial purposes. PW-1 admitted that they have a construction company by name Gokul Constructions that promoted flat complexes. It was stated before the Division Bench that PW-1 went to London at that time to strike a deal for infusing Rs.48 crores towards this property. Therefore, the ordinary sympathy towards borrowers that has always been the hallmark of every Court in the country, cannot be extended to the plaintiffs. 38.4. It must be remembered that the plaintiffs have come to Court, seeking equitable relief on the ground that he was a borrower and that he would lose his property, mortgaged with the Benefit Society. But, it is well settled that a man who seeks equity should do equity. What the plaintiffs have done so far, in the past 16 years, is anything but equity. Hence, I am of the view that all the suits are to be dismissed with exemplary costs. CONCLUSION: 39. In the light of the above, all the 18 issues are answered against the plaintiffs. Consequently, all the suits are dismissed with exemplary costs of Rs.25,000/- in each of the 5 suits. The costs are to be paid to Egmore Benefit Society Limited. kpl svn