1. By this writ petition filed under Article 226/227 of the Constitution

of India the petitioner/UOI is praying for quashing and setting aside the

order of the Central Administrative Tribunal, Principal Bench, New Delhi

(hereinafter referred to as „the Tribunal‟) passed on 25.02.2009 in

O.A.No.1769/2008 whereby the Tribunal had set aside the order dated

08.08.2008 repatriating Manoranjan Kumar (hereinafter referred to as

"the respondent"), a deputationist, to his parent department after

holding, that, "the real reason behind repatriating the applicant to his

parent department was in fact the complaints/reports made by him and WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 1 of 39 not the complaints that may have been received against him. Reference

to the various complaints against the applicant in the notes preceding

the repatriation order, and that being the reason for repatriating him,

appears to be a made-up affair. It is quite apparent that a substantial

number of persons yielding power felt threatened and insecure on the

reports made by the applicant. It is because of the influence exerted by

them upon the competent authority, it is apparent, the applicant was

sent back to his parent cadre. The order of repatriation, in our

considered view, is mala fide." 2. In the impugned order the Tribunal also observed: 3. Taking strong objection to the aforesaid observation of the

Tribunal, the learned ASG representing the UOI has submitted that the

order of repatriation is an incidence of service and is subject to pleasure

of the appointing authority. In this case it was not that the Government

was taking any adverse action against the first respondent. The

Government has taken a decision to repatriate the first respondent

because he was not found suitable to continue in the post where he was WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 2 of 39 sent on deputation. The order repatriating him was neither stigmatic nor

is mala fide but is based upon appreciation of facts which came to the

notice of the competent authority making the respondent as unsuitable

for the post of Deputy Chairman, Kandla Port Trust. 4. It has been submitted that considering the tone and tenor in the

correspondence exchanged by respondent with his seniors and

allegations made by him against the Chairman of the Port Trust, besides

his hesitation in contributing in the functioning of the Port Trust

activities, the competent authority being satisfied the work and conduct

of the respondent was no satisfactory took his decision in public interest

to repatriate him to his parent department. They have also relied upon

the following Judgments:- 5. Before we revert to the facts of this case, we may discuss about

the rights of a deputationist as spelt out by a coordinate bench of this

Court in L/Nk V.H.K.Murthy‟s case (supra). The relevant observations are

as under: It is thus manifest that a deputationist has no right to the
 post held by him in the borrowing department and he can
 always be repatriated to his parent department in public
 interest and exigencies of service. This right of the
 borrowing department to repatriate the employee and for
 that matter right of the lending department to recall their
 own employee sent on deputation, is well recognised in
 service jurisprudence. 25. For these reasons I am also inclined to accept the
 submissions made by Mr.Maninder Singh learned counsel
 for the respondents that the tenure of deputation can be
 curtailed for bona fide reasons and in the instant case the
 moment it is found that "suitability" of an officer has
 attracted a question mark, it is permissible for the
 respondents to repatriate said officer to his parent
 department. For this reason the Constitutional Bench
 judgment of Supreme Court cited by the petitioners in the
 case of K.H. Phadnis Vs.. State of Maharashtra: 26. Of course, it is not to suggest that the respondents
 have right to act in an arbitrary manner or they can use
 the sensitive nature of job to be performed by the
 petitioners as a cover to use the power of repatriation as a
 colourable exercise of power. The judicial power of review
 can be exercised on the basis of accepted norms i.e. to
 say when it is found that the action of the respondents
 suffers from the vice of arbitrariness or mala fides etc.
 However, once it is found that the action is bona fide and
 the apprehension of the respondents is based on some
 relevant considerations then this court has to stay its
 hands off. Further keeping in view the sensitive of job to
 be performed by the petitioners, the discretion which is
 conferred upon the competent authority has to be wide
 and even a doubt, of course genuine doubt, nurturing in
 the mind of the respondents, which may become the basis
 of their decision not to keep a particular officer in SPG any
 longer would meet the test of bona fide exercise of
 power." 6. The Apex Court in the case of Union of India (UOI) through Govt. of

Pondicherry and Anr.Vs. V. Ramakrishnan and Ors. ,(2005) 8 SCC 394

has also observed :- 7. It would also be appropriate to discuss the judgment of the

Division Bench of Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of D.K.Rao (supra), who had been also deputed to work as Deputy Chairman of

Visakhapatnam Port Trust and whose tenure was also curtailed by

ordering his repatriation to his parent cadre. In this case, D.K.Rao has

raised similar pleas as have been raised by the respondent before us.

The Court has made the following observations:- "8. We find force in the contention of the learned counsel
 for the Central Government. The case relied on by the
 learned counsel for the appellant (Agarwal's case 1 supra)
 is distinguishable since in that case the officer who was
 appointed on a tenure basis for a period of 5 years was
 sought to be retired on attaining the age of
 superannuation. It is not a case of deputation and the
 question of the officer going back to the parent
 department where he had substantive post does not arise
 in that case. As it was a tenure post, the Supreme Court
 held that the concept of superannuation is alien to such a
 post. As already seen, Section 7(1) of the Act says that the
 Chairman and Deputy Chairman hold office during the
 pleasure of the Central Government. Thus, the
 appointment order must be read along with Section 7(1) of
 the Act and if so read, it follows that the appellant is
 entitled to hold the post of Deputy Chairman in the normal
 course for a period of 4 years, but without prejudice to the
 right of the Central Government to withdraw him at any
 time before expiry of 4 years. Further, even if the
 appointment order is construed by itself without reference
 to Section 7(1) of the Act, it does not preclude the lending
 department to withdraw the officer and repatriate him to
 the parent department as held by the High Court of
 Allahabad in Shambu Nath's case 1984 (2) SLR 396
 (Allahabad)." 9. The second contention of the learned counsel for the
 appellant is that in the absence of any request from the
 parent department, i.e., the Government of Gujarat, the
 appellant cannot be repatriated. It must be remembered WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 6 of 39 that the appellant was sent to the Port Trust not on the
 request or at the instance of the Government of Gujarat,
 but at the instance of Government of India which is the
 appointing authority regarding the post of Deputy
 Chairman of the Port Trust. The Government of Gujarat
 has no say either in sending the appellant to the Port Trust
 or repatriating him to the Government of Gujarat. Thus,
 there is no substance in this contention." 8. In view of the aforesaid it has been averred that the repatriation

order being an order simplicitor and not being an order in the nature of

punishment was fully justified. The said order was issued by the

Petitioner after recording the reasons about unsuitability of the

respondent taken in the larger interest of the development of the Port

especially in a situation where in the officers Association, Karamchari

Sangh, stakeholders as also the Chamber of Commerce and industry

were not happy with the functioning of the Respondent who was not

even respectful to his immediate superior. It is not that a disciplinary

action has been taken against respondent after accepting veracity of the

complaints received against him, but have taken the said decision only

with a view to repatriate him being satisfied that his continuance as

Deputy Chairman was not conducive either to the efficient working of

KPT or to fostering of better interpersonal relations among senior port

functionaries. 9. Coming to the facts of the case right from the beginning, a vacancy

circular was issued on 02.01.2005 inviting applications for filling up the

post of Deputy Chairman, Kandla Port Trust on deputation basis. The

Respondent an IES Officer applied for the post and on 13.02.2007 an

appointment order was issued to the Respondent appointing him to the WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 7 of 39 post of Dy. Chairman. Another fact to reckon with in this case is that

subsequent to his appointment, on 11.07.2007 he was given the

additional charge of Chief Vigilance officer. While holding both the posts

simultaneously the Respondent in his capacity as the CVO submitted 8

reports pointing out the corruption and other wrongdoings going on in

KPT by senior officers including Ex-Chairmen of the Trust resulting into

registration of criminal cases by the Central Bureau of Investigation. It

has been alleged that the Ex-Chairman of KPT, was involved in large

scale corruption and acts of misdemeanor in having extended land lease

for a further period of 30 years without following the proper procedure. 10. In the meantime, some complaints started pouring in against the

respondent besides the report of the Trust Chairmen. The details of the

complaints are as under:- (ii) Complaint dated 20.11.2007 made by Kandla Port
 Trust Association. (iii) Complaint dated 02.02.2008 made by Kandla Port
 Karamchari Sangh. (iv) Complaint dated 08.04.2008 made by Shri
 H.C.Venkatesh, Traffic Manager, KPT. (iv) Anonymous complaint dated 19.04.2008 forwarded
 by Chairman, KPT. (v) Complaint dated 29.01.2008 made by Sh. Krishnan
 A, FA/CAO, KPT. (vi) Complaint dated 18.04.2008 made by Gandhidham
 chamber of Commerce and Industry. WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 8 of 39 11. According to the learned ASG in addition to the aforesaid

complaints, the unsuitability of the respondent is writ large if one scans

through the documents placed on record by the petitioner along with CM

No. 8960/2010, which application has been allowed by us vide separate

order passed today. The documents brought on record by the petitioner

are as under:- Mr.H.C.Venkatesh, Traffic Manager, KPT, Capt. H.K.Sibbal,
 Dy.Conservator, KPT and Mr.A.K.Gadkari, Chief Mechanical
 Engineer. (iii) Extracts from various original files of Kandla Port
 Trust which were placed before this Court at the time
 when the arguments were addressed on behalf of the
 petitioners which show that respondent as Dy. Chairman
 would invariably remark in many of file notings that "The
 Chairman may like to take view or For kind orders or May
 kindly see for orders" without adding or recommending
 anything. (iv) A copy of the departmental files concerning the
 processing of the issue of hiring of tugs at the Kandla Port
 and subsequently the complaint filed by the respondent. (v) A copy of the departmental files concerning the
 handling of two container vessels at ABG Kandla Container
 Terminal at the Kandla Port and subsequently the
 complaint filed by the respondent. (vi) A copy of the departmental files of two cases viz. Indo-
 Nippon case and Instrumentation case at the Kandla Port. (vii) A copy of the list of the status of the complaints filed
 by Manoranjan Kumar, CVO with CBI. 12. It has been submitted that a bare perusal of the aforesaid

documents and complaints besides the letters written by the respondent

reflect upon his personality and reveals that he was not suitable to work WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 9 of 39 as Deputy Chairman, KPT any further. In these circumstances, it is

submitted that the simplicitor order of repatriation was passed without

reaching to any conclusion as regards the culpability/misconduct of

respondent. 13. The petitioner further submits that a deputationist has no right to

remain in deputation post even if the period of the deputation is

curtailed and in the present case the provisions of section 7 of the Major

Port Act applied and hence the repatriation order is not erroneous in law

or is tainted with mala fide. It is further stated that the order of

repatriation has nothing to do with the gradings given in the ACR.

Respondent had no vested right to continue on deputation post. The

competent authority had the right to repatriate him at any point of time

even by curtailing his tenure. 14. It is also submitted by the petitioner that the investigation qua the

charges levied against the officers by the respondent is in progress but

till date no charge-sheet has been filed in any court of law. It is thus

submitted that order of repatriation impugned before the Tribunal was

not stigmatic in nature and was issued by the petitioner keeping in view

the overall interest of the Port. 15. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent

supports the judgment delivered by the Tribunal and insists that the

order of repatriation was mala fide and stigmatic in nature. WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 10 of 39 16. It is also submitted that the order of repatriation virtually

amounted to remove the respondent as CVO and thus it was also

contrary to the guidelines of CVC. As the purpose of repatriation was to

somehow remove the respondent from the post of CVO at which post he

was working on account of additional charge given to him which enabled

him to expose large scale corruption and irregularities and illegalities

committed by the persons who had been placed at high places in KPT

who appears to have joined hands to somehow send respondent back to

his parent department. It has been submitted that almost all the

reports submitted by respondent to CVC and to higher authorities, action

has been taken against the guilty officials who even include the ex

Chairman of the KPT. It is the also his case that even for the intervening

period after the first order was withdrawn to repatriate him he was not

permitted to breathe freely and was fettered with all clogs in discharging

his duties. 17. It is also submitted by them that this court is not supposed to

interfere with the findings of facts while exercising its jurisdiction while

issuing Writ of certiorari. The limit of the jurisdiction of the High Court in

this regard has been considered by the Apex Court in the case of Hari

Vishnu Kamath Vs. Ahmad Ishaque , AIR 1955 SC 233 and the following

propositions were laid down:- 18. It is also submitted that the deputation of the respondent was on a

tenure post and that the impugned order speak of "curtailing deputation

tenure" and that it is not a tenure post has not been questioned by

Union of India. It is stated that it was an appointment after proper

selection and the tenure of five years could not have been curtailed. It is

also submitted that the complaints against the respondent started

pouring in after he was given the additional charge of CVO, KPT on

11.07.2007 and on his submitting various reports. There has been no

complaint whatsoever while he was working on his substantive post of

Deputy Chairman. 19. It is also submitted that the vigilance reports submitted by

respondent prima facie disclosed the involvement of senior officers of

the KPT including ex-chairmen of the Trust in large scale land scam

running into thousands of crores, unauthorized use of land, awarding

contracts and tenders without following due procedure thereby giving

undue pecuniary advantages to a chosen few, unauthorized extension of

leases, etc. The reports have been duly acted upon and only those who WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 12 of 39 are reported upon are the complainant against the respondent. It is

submitted that the very purpose of repatriating respondent is to remove

inconvenient CVO, for which he was removed from the post of Deputy

Chairman, KPT, a fact noted by the Tribunal which is even contrary to

CVC guidelines. 20. It is also submitted that the Tribunal has noted the performance of

respondent in paragraph 3 of the impugned judgment. It has also noted

the data of the Indian Port Association filed by the petitioner. Therefore,

bogey of non-performance is bogus. 21. It is also submitted that even the letter of Sh.Praveen Aggarwal

filed with the counter affidavit is bereft of Annexures. These have been

mechanically relied upon by the Government without discussing other

aspects. It is also submitted that interpersonal letters between

respondent and Chairman have not been relied upon by the Government

while relieving respondent. These have to be understood in the

particular context of respondent being victimized by him. 22. It is submitted that the judicial system is bound to protect the

honest officials who are hounded because of sincere discharge of duties.

Hounding of the civil servants protecting public monies and public

interest by abuse of service hierarchy, if not tackled would devour public

administration and good governance. 23. Counsel for respondent further relied upon the following

judgments:- WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 13 of 39 24. Let us now look at the order repatriating the respondent to his

parent department dated 08.08.2010 which reads as under:- A-12023/5/2008-PE.I Dated 08/08/2008 ORDER NO. 17/2008 Whereas Shri Manoranjan Kumar was appointed as
 Deputy Chairman of KPT vide Department of Shipping
 communication dated 07.09.2006 and

 Whereas in terms of section 7 of Major Port Trusts Act,
 the Dy. Chairman of a port holds the office during the pleasure
 of the Central Government and

 Whereas the Central Government has withdrawn the
 pleasure on continuance of Shri Manoranjan Kumar as
 Dy.Chairman of KPT. Now therefore Shri Manoranjan Kumar (IES:86) is hereby
 relieved of his duties as Dy.Chairman and CVO of Kandla Port
 Trust and is repatriated to his parent cadre curtailing his
 deputation tenure. Shr. G.S.Rao COM (OOT) shall take over the
 charge of Dy.Chairman and CVO till further orders. (Rakesh Srivastava)
 Joint Secretary to the Government of India
 To 1. Shri Manoranj Kumar, IES 2. Shri G.S.Rao
 Deputy Chairman, COM(OOT)
 Kandla Port Trust Kandla Port Trust
 Kandla Kandla 25. We may also refer to background note leading to the passing of

the aforesaid order mention whereof has been made by the Tribunal in

the impugned order. We reproduce the same for clarity:- WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 14 of 39 17011/1/2008-PT dated 3.1.2008 criticised the working
 style of Shri Manoranjan Kumar, Dy. Chairman and CVO
 and requested to investigate the matter and replace the
 unfriendly and negative official from KPT to avoid
 tarnishing the good image of KPT maintained so far.

 He apparently had a secret meeting with Shri Ashok Bhatt,
 Hon‟ble Home Minister and Speaker of Gujarat Legislative
 Assembly during his visit to Gandhidham on 13.4.2008 on
 the eve of inauguration of newly constructed SRC A.O.
 Building and provided him complete details of KPT lands,
 possibly with a view to facilitate Gujarat State taking over
 Vadinar and Kandla Township Land. This seems to have
 been confirmed by Shri Ashok Bhatt during his inaugural
 speech on the occasion. (c) He is habituated to evade responsibility and prefers
 to remain on leave even though he is commanding
 number two position in the Port and his continuous
 inaction to various proposals of the organization has led to
 a disturbed working atmosphere and the Heads of
 Department of the Port are compelled to request for
 sanction of the Chairman through Fax and Telephone from
 Goa. Instead of guiding his subordinates and assisting his
 superior, he always prefers to report the matter of KPT
 directly to the CVC and the Ministry without the knowledge
 of the chairman. 10. Earlier Shri Praveen Agarwal had forwarded an
 anonymous letter along with a CD received by him
 containing portion of a speech made by Home Minister of
 Gujarat. It had been mentioned that Shri Manoranjan
 Kumar had been persuading BJP Legislators and Ministers WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 17 of 39 of Gujarat State to take over the administration of Kandla
 Port offshore lands. 11. In their letter dated 18.4.08, Gandhidham Chamber
 of Commerce and Industry have also requested for
 transfer of Shri Manoranjan Kumar from Kandla for the
 better development of the Port. In addition, 12. As stated in para 1 above, based on similar
 complaints only, it was decided at the level of Hon ble
 Minister to relieve Shri Manoranjan Kumar from the post of
 Dy. Chairman. However, he was reinstated as the said
 order was stayed by the Hon ble CAT in its interim order
 dated 8.2.2008. Now in its order dated 11.7.08 the
 Hon‟ble CAT, in a self contained judgement covering all
 the related issues, has upheld the Govts right to take
 appropriate measures as situations might justify. Also in
 an identical court case in 1993 filed by Shri D. K. Rao, the
 then Dy. Chairman, VPT, the Andhra Pradesh High Court
 had held that pre-mature termination of deputation was
 not by way of punishment and that deputation was at the
 pleasure of Central Govt. under Section 7(1) of the Major
 Port Trusts Act. In other words, the Principal Bench of CAT
 in the case filed by Shri Manoranjan Kumar and Hon ble
 High Court of AP in the case filed by Shri D. K. Rao have
 endorsed the authority of the Central Govt. as per the
 provisions of MPT Act in the matter of continuance or
 otherwise of deputation of an officer as Dy. Chairman in a
 Port. As per Section 7 of the Major Port Trusts Act the
 Chairman and Dy. Chairman shall hold office during the
 pleasure of the Central Govt. 13. To sum up, from the foregoing facts it is clear that
 the acts of omission and commission on the part of Shri
 Manoranjan Kumar, while functioning as Dy. Chairman
 have been detrimental to the development/growth of
 Kandla Port. This Port was occupying number 1 position in
 2006-07 in terms of Cargo Handling and now has slipped
 down. The style of functioning of Shri Manoranjan Kumar
 might have a negative and demoralizing effect on the
 officers and employees of the port. This is also reflected
 in their lower output in various port operations. The
 Chairman has categorically stated that the Dy.
 Chairman s contribution to the port has been nil and in
 fact his presence in the port is having an adverse effect to
 the port. 14. This being the position, the Govt. may consider
 repatriating him to his parent department by prematurely
 reverting him from the deputation in public interest. This WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 18 of 39 being an action on administrative exigencies, in no way
 should be considered as a punitive action against the
 officer. The pleasure of the govt. as envisaged under Section 7 of the Major Port Trusts Act may be withdrawn
 so that he can be repatriated to his parent cadre. 15. In the event his repatriation is ordered, it may also
 be considered whether an officer of the Department,
 preferably DS(PO) may be asked to take the charge of the
 post of Dy. Chairman and Chief Vigilance Officer, KPT, as
 additional charge, till regular arrangements are made.
 This would also ensure immediate implementation of our
 orders, if issued. Submitted for orders please. On the same day, when the note was put up to Dir.
 (PHRD), he recorded as follows: Also his behavior unbecoming of an official of KPT is
 reflected below:- This was communicated by the Traffic Manager, KPT who was
 forced to preside over the Meeting in the absence of Deputy
 Chairman (Chairman being out of station on the particular day),
 under his letter dated 08.04.2008 addressed to the Secretary
 (Shipping) which was forwarded by the Ministry for my
 comments under letter No. C-16011/2/2009-PE-I dated
 28.04.2008. (Annex-V) (iii) He is habituated to evade responsibility and prefers to
 remain on leave even though he is commanding number two
 position in the port and his continuous inaction to various
 proposals of the organization has led to disturbed working
 atmosphere and the Heads of Departments of the Port are
 compelled to request for sanction of the Chairman through Fax
 and Telephone from Goa. Instead of guiding his subordinates
 and assisting his superior, he always prefers to report the WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 21 of 39 matters of KPT directly to the VC and the Ministry without the
 knowledge of Chairman. Immediate needful action in the matter is, therefore, requested. Yours faithfully,

 (Praveen Agarwal)
 CHAIRMAN" 29. The Tribunal has further noted that even the CVC in their reply in

OA bearing No. 302/2008 (another matter) have admitted that they have

received the reports made by the respondent and that the report of the

respondent was for taking actions against the concerned persons, which,

of course, it was decided to be taken only after Gujarat Assembly

Election. 30. We may further point out that no formal reply was filed by the CVC

in this case. On their non-filing of any formal reply, the Tribunal further

observed:- 31. It may however be observed that while passing the impugned

order the Tribunal has discussed the complaint made against the WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 24 of 39 respondent on merits but has not commented upon the tone and tenor

of the letters written by the respondent to his senior officers. The

petitioners strongly rely upon this aspect of the matter to support the

order of repatriation. In this regard, we would first notice the report of

Shri Praveen Agarwal, who was the Chairman of the Trust, dated

20.05.2008 as aforesaid. 32. This report reflects upon the working style of respondent as

Deputy Chairman and CVO. Mr. Aggarwal has also referred to

unsatisfactory performance of respondent and has described his

contribution as counterproductive and insignificant. He has also

highlighted his negative approach towards his subordinates and

superiors alike which was obstructing smooth flow of working. He has

also made reference to the notings on the file which reflects casual and

irresponsible approach of the respondent. 33. Even if for the sake of arguments it may be taken that Shri

Praveen Agarwal had any grudge against respondent while writing the

aforesaid letter, then also respondent had no business to write letters

dated 23.05.2008 and 10.07.2008 to his immediate Boss and endorsing

copies of those letters to the Secretary, Department of Shipping,

Government of India. 34. The two letters written by the petitioner before his repatriation

which reveal impropriety in his tone and tenor, towards his immediate

senior officer, are reproduced hereunder:- WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 25 of 39 You also directed your PS to send a letter through speed post
 at my Port Colony address knowing fully well that I am not
 there. I contacted you on your mobile. This time again you
 did not take my call. d) Thereafter, you were contacted on your mobile through SMS
 that was delivered to both you and your PS on 10th May 2008
 at 4.55 PM and 4.58 PM respectively. The SMS said "have
 you sent a letter at my residential address at Kandla Port
 address? By Speed Post? I am in Delhi and on rest as per
 medical advice. Anything Important?" Yet again for ulterior
 reasons you chose to ignore and not respond to my sms.
 Though your PS belatedly informed me the next day through
 SMS that "chairman has forwarded a letter of ministry about
 a complaint for your comments." e) I contacted him on phone. He informed me that the leave
 application was seen by you. The leave application showed
 that I am in Delhi. f) I did not receive any call from your office or from you even
 subsequently. g) Yet for ulterior reasons you instructed Deputy Secretary
 (E)/Secretary (KPT) to send a file to my residence in KPT
 colony. Are these conduct(s) of yours administrative
 prudence? Are they not aimed to cause anguish and injury to
 me and my rights? Is that your mandate? In view of the above mentioned facts and your partiality, I
 am not aghast to know that you imputed false meanings on my
 leave, its genuineness, my leave address etc. You chose to
 latch on to technical clause of leave address in Delhi not being
 available in application despite the same being on your record
 in KPT. You ignored my ready availability on mobile phone. You
 willfully did not place on records the fact that you did not take
 my call on several occasions. You willfully hid the fact that you
 received my SMS. I am afraid I have little option but to accept the harsh
 reality that your false insinuation, deliberately generation of
 false records and fabricating facts on file is a part of your
 administrative wisdom while dealing with issues and persons
 that do not sub-serve your personal predilections/objectives or
 when officers do not agree with your scheme of things or do not
 agree with your design. In this connection may I request you to recall letters of
 SEZ Commissioner Shri Ravi Saxena (IAS : 78) number
 KASEZ/DC/PA/2008 dated 15th May 2008. You will notice that he
 has reached similar conclusion on minutes of Board Meeting
 relating to 24th March 2008. You will notice that Area Railway Manager has also
 scripted your failure to record correct facts relating to Board WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 27 of 39 Meeting of 11th March 2008 and 24th March 2008 which
 substantiates your malafide to cause injury to me and my rights.

 Before that Customs Commissioner has also conveyed to you
 his reservations on not presenting his views and facts correctly
 to suit your convenience on a tender matter. Thus on
 generation of wrong and false information on records of
 Government by you, I see a trend which is rare in senior civil
 servants. I am pretty certain the Board will be reconstituted. And the
 inability of these officers to be nominated to the Board of
 Trustees will be taken advantage by you to „generate‟ records
 as per your sweet will. If that is what the Central Government
 wishes to have so be it. Yours sincerely,

 (Manoranjan Kumar)

 Shri Praveen Agarwal,
 Chairman Mormugao Port Trust
 & Chairman KPT on Additional Charge Basis
 KPT Administrative Building
 Gandhidham

 CC: 35. It will also be appropriate to take note of the letter dated

10.07.008 written to Shri Praveen Aggarwal, the Chairman of the Trust:- As is usual, you are in habit of passing generalized
 comments without any basis. Your statement that some other
 officials have not been implicated in the referred cases is not
 true and devoid of any cogent reasoning. Would you please
 bring out the specific case(s)? I advise you to withdraw the said
 observations and extend unqualified regrets for inserting
 baseless allegations. Yours sincerely, WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 32 of 39 (Manoranjan Kumar)

 Shri Praveen Agarwal,
 Chairman, KPT (On additional Charge basis)
 Gandhidham" 37. Further, paragraph 13 of the letter dated 26.05.2008 is also

improper, the same reads as under:- 38. The other documents which have been permitted to be taken on

record by allowing CM No. 8960/2010 also raises eyebrow on the

conduct of the respondent inasmuch as he wrote ACRs of

Mr.H.C.Venkatesh, Traffic Manager, KPT, Capt. H.K.Sibbal, Dy.

Conservator, KPT and Mr.A.K.Gadkari, Chief Mechanical Engineer.

Respondent has taken a highly contradictory view by first giving three

officers, namely, excellent gradings on their ACR and after taking over

the charge of CVO ordered initiation of prosecution against the very

same officers. Same is reflective of his conduct when we go through the WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 33 of 39 file pertaining to issuing of hiring of tugs at the Port and the handling of

two container vessel at ABG Kandla. Similar is the position with regard

to the case pertaining to Indo-Nippon and instrumentation case at the

Port. It is also a matter of record that in almost 80 per cent of the

complaints lodged by the respondent which went for investigation by

CBI, proceedings were dropped. A chart of action taken report about

various reports as placed on record by the petitioners along with the CM

is reproduced hereunder: Dated:11-01-
 2010 and 29-03- 39. Merely because an officer had good ACR grading and might have

worked efficiently at an earlier point of time and also proved to be a

Good CVO, the employer in this case i.e. the petitioners if not satisfied

regarding his overall suitability for the post on which he has been sent

on deputation only for a specified period was certainly entitled to

withdraw their pleasure in permitting him to continue on the post. If the

pleasure is withdrawn without any harm to the incumbent and without

taking any action pursuant to the complaints lodged against him, even if

it is accepted that those complaints had been lodged by interested

parties, it would not be a case which calls for any interference by a

judicial Tribunal to quash such orders repatriating respondent to his

parent cadre. 40. The judgments cited by the respondent have been gone into by

us, which had been given in the given facts but we are afraid that

looking at the canvass in its totality is of no help to the case of the

respondent. 41. It is well settled that deputation of an employee requires three

parties i.e. the employee, the parent department and the borrowing

department. Either of them may decide not to continue with the

deputation. Until and unless such action is stigmatic, mala fide or is

harmful to the interests of employee sent on deputation, it cannot be

said that action on the part of the employer to repatriate the employee WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 36 of 39 to his parent cadre was unjustified. In fact such a view negates the

provisions contained under Section 7 of the Major Port Trust Act. 42. In this regard, it would relevant to take note of judgment of this

Court in WP(C)No.12773/2009 entitled as Shri Sitamber Singh Vs. Union

of India (UOI) and Anr., decided on 15.07.2010. The relevant portion is

reproduced hereunder:- The concept of deputation is based upon consent
 and voluntary decision of the employer to lend the
 services of his employee, corresponding acceptance
 of such service by the borrowing employer and the
 consent of the employee to go on deputation. A
 deputation subsists so long as the parties to this
 tripartite agreement do not abrogate it. However, if
 any one of the parties repudiate the agreement, the
 other two have no legally enforcible right to insist
 upon continuance of the deputation. Even in the
 cases where deputationists continue for a pretty
 long period and options for their "absorption' in the
 borrowing department were taken, yet their
 repatriation to the parent department was upheld by
 the Apex Court in Rattilal B. Soni v. State of Gujarat AIR 1990 SC 1132 : 1991(3) SLR 77 (SC) after
 holding that "the appellants being on deputation,
 they could be repatriated to their parent cadre at
 any time and they do not not get any right to be
 absorbed on the deputation post." 43. We may like to observe here that the petitioners have not initiated

any adverse action on the basis of complaints made against respondent

by various persons as detailed above. The conduct of respondent

reflects that once he became CVO, he started acting as a super boss and

started behaving improperly even qua the Chairman of the Trust. This is

writ large from his communication to the Chairperson as quoted above

after endorsing copies of such communication even to the Secretary in

the Shipping Ministry and goes to show that such a person may not be

suitable for the job which in fact is in the nature of a temporary

appointment and therefore, if a decision is taken to curtail his period of

deputation, which even as per the appointment letter could have been

curtailed, taking into consideration Section 7 of the Major Port Trust Act

without causing any harm to respondent requires to be upheld. At this

juncture we may observe here that the respondent was not sent on

deputation to work as CVO which was an additional charge given to him

though strictly speaking should not have been given to him in view of

the guidelines of CVC as such appointment should go to an outsider.

Consequently, we find that despite a long judgment given by the

Tribunal we cannot uphold the same and therefore, we set aside the

same. The writ petition is accordingly allowed with no order as to costs.

Interim order, if any, stands vacated. 44. Before parting with the case, we would like to note that while we

have gone on the basis of law relating to the rights of an employee who

is on deputation, we cannot be oblivious of the fact that respondent took

on a problem that besets much of government functioning and it is quite WP(C)No.7415/2009 Page 38 of 39 possible that in the process, he rubbed many on the wrong side. It is

noteworthy that there is no complaint of financial irregularity against

him. 45. The overall conspectus makes it clear that here there was a

crusader whose mission upset many. The path he chose was not easy to

tread, but that he had courage of conviction is something to be

commended and not penalized. While we may not approve of the tenor

of his letters, we cannot lose sight of the human trait and frailties that

an individual working with zeal against heavy odds in his quest to

expose wrongs in an organization exhibits, when faced with a constant

tirade for his removal, rather an obstruction in his mission, in which

process he is bound to commit an error in his choice of words. 46. It appears that facing continued and stiff resistance to his crusade,

he overreacted and wrote in a language that was unbecoming. But that

cannot be a ground for clinging on to a post which as per the Rules he

can be relieved of. We would, therefore, end this judgment with a note

that nothing stated herein would tantamount to reflecting anything on

the conduct of respondent so as to enable the authorities to take any

adverse action against him. MOOL CHAND GARG, J.