Heard learned counsel for the parties. This is an appeal under Section 14-A(2) of the

 Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of

 Atrocities) Act, 1989 (hereinafter referred to as the "SC/ST

 Act") against the refusal of prayer for anticipatory bail vide

 order dated 12.01.2022 in A.B.P. No. 564 of 2021 passed by the

 learned 3rd Additional Sessions Judge-cum-Special Judge,

 Saharsa in connection with Sour Bazar (Baijnathpur O.P.) P.S.

 Case No. 450 of 2020 registered under Sections 341 , 323 , 302 , 201 , 504 , 506 / 34 of the Indian Penal Code as well as Sections

 3(1)(r)(s) / 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that

 appellant is a person with clean antecedent.
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.345 of 2022(2) dt.08-08-2022 2/3 The informant alleges that on 01.12.2020, she

 received an information that her husband has been killed when

 he had gone to participate in a Puja. It is alleged that about ten

 days back, the appellant, who runs a Chimini in the village, had

 threatened to commit the murder of the husband of the

 informant. It is alleged that Rajendra Yadav also two days back

 had abused the husband of the informant using his caste name as

 detailed in the FIR and had also threatened to kill him. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that the

 appellant has been falsely implicated in the present case and

 from perusal of the allegation as alleged in the FIR, it would

 manifest that no offence under the SC/ST Act is, prima facie,

 made out against the appellant. It is next submitted that the

 police, after investigation, submitted final form in favour of the

 appellant and the learned court below in a mechanical manner

 differing with the police report took cognizance. It is next

 submitted that during the course of investigation no material

 came which could even remotely connect the appellant with the

 offence. It is then submitted that it is beyond comprehension

 that on what basis the learned court below proceeded to take

 cognizance of the offence when, prima facie, from bare reading

 of the allegation as alleged in the FIR no offence under the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.345 of 2022(2) dt.08-08-2022 3/3 SC/ST Act is made out against the appellant. Learned Special Public Prosecutor opposed the

 prayer for anticipatory bail of the appellant but is not able to

 rebut the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant that

 from bare reading of the allegation as alleged in the FIR, no

 offence, under the SC/ST Act, is made out against the appellant. Considering the submission made by learned

 counsel for the appellant, let the appellant, above named, in the

 event of his arrest or surrender before the learned Court below

 within a period of six weeks from the date of receipt of the

 order, be released on anticipatory bail on furnishing bail bond of

 Rs.5,000/- (rupees five thousand) with two sureties of the like

 amount each to the satisfaction of the learned court below where

 the case is pending in connection with the aforesaid case,

 subject to the conditions as laid down under Section 438(2) of

 the Code of Criminal Procedure. Accordingly, the impugned order is set aside and

 this appeal stands allowed. (Satyavrat Verma, J)

Kundan/-