(Per: Ms. Kumkum Rani, President): 2. The facts giving rise to the appeal, in brief, are as such that the
complainant is maintaining a saving bank account bearing No. 1 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 17.05.2024
 63 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Ish Mohan Negi

1843000100228775 with the opposite party. That the opposite party had
issued a credit card No. 4197890000524990 to the complainant. It is
alleged in the complaint that the complainant came to know through SMS
received on his mobile that some unknown person had made 10 illegal
transactions through the credit card for a total sum of Rs. 45,000/- by either
hacking his credit card account or by negligence on the part of the opposite
party. It is further alleged in the complaint that on dated 21.07.2013, a
complaint was lodged before the police and also intimation about such
unauthorised illegal transactions of Rs. 45,000/- was given to the opposite
party. The credit card division of the opposite party has apprised to the
complainant that the investigation would be conducted in this matter which
would take 60 to 90 days and after inquiry report / investigation report, the
amount of above such transactions to the tune of Rs. 45,000/-will be
credited to the credit card account of the complainant. The complainant has
sent several reminders to the opposite party as well as credit card division,
but he was always assured that the investigation is underway and he would
be immediately informed after such inquiry. It is also apprised by Senior
Manager Sh. Praveen Bharti to the complainant again forward police report
and transaction dispute form. It was also apprised that the bank had issued
a letter dated 23.07.2013 to him, but the same letter was not received. The
said letter was sent to the email of the complainant on 22.11.2013 wherein
the complainant was apprised denying to help the complainant because the
disputed transactions took place through VBV Password. To avoid further
interest on the above amount, the complainant had paid the above amount
of Rs. 45,000/- alongwith interest and tax of Rs. 5,105/- to the Bank. The
complainant has also submitted his complaint to the Banking Lokpal, but
nothing was done on his complaint. As per police report, it is apprised to
the complainant that all the online transactions through credit card were
done from Islamabad, Pakistan. By moving the said complaint, the 2 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 17.05.2024
 63 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Ish Mohan Negi

complainant has sought Rs. 45,000/- including interest and tax calculated
on the disputed amount by the Bank to the tune of Rs. 50,105/- with
compensation of Rs. One Lakh for mental agony and litigation charges. 3. The opposite party had submitted its written statement wherein the
Bank has conceded that all the disputed transactions were done on dated
21.07.2013 through credit card of the complainant and the immediate
information about such illegal transactions was given to the Bank. It is also
conceded that the bank has apprised to the complainant that the
investigation about the such illegal transaction made from Pakistan would
take 60 to 90 days. It is further pleaded in the written statement that all the
personal information about the card remains with the card-holder not with
the Bank and no transaction could be made without generating the
password and no transaction from the credit card took place until the CVV
value and the passwords would not be conveyed to the other person. The
said transactions were made due to the negligence on the part of the
complainant for which he is liable for the same. Hence, there was no
deficiency in service on the part of the Bank. The complainant shared all
the relevant information regarding the credit card to some unwanted and
unknown person, therefore, he incurred loss for which he is responsible.
Therefore, the Commission has no right to entertain the complaint and the
same is liable to be dismissed. 4. The District Commission after hearing both the parties and after
taking into consideration the pleadings and evidence available on record,
passed the impugned judgment and order on dated 08.01.2019 wherein it
was directed to the opposite party to pay Rs. 50,105/- with compensation
of Rs. 10,000/- for mental agony alongwith litigation charges of Rs. 3,000/-
to the complainant, failing which the complainant shall be entitled to get 3 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 17.05.2024
 63 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Ish Mohan Negi

simple interest @ 9% per annum from the date of filing of the complaint
till its actual realization. 5. Aggrieved by the impugned judgment and order of the District
Commission, the opposite party as appellant has preferred the present
appeal stating that the District Commission has erred in holding that if the
transactions had been made with the consent of the respondent -
complainant, he would neither give intimation to the appellant immediately
nor he would lodge police report. It is further averred that the District
Commission has also erred in holding that the respondent had taken all the
necessary steps which were required to be taken for the illegal transactions,
hence there was no carelessness on the part of the respondent. It is further
contended on behalf of the appellant that the District Commission has failed
to consider that all the transactions were not carried due to lapse in the
security of the credit card on the part of the appellant. The District
Commission has also erred in holding that the appellant had not provided
for proof security for the credit card transactions and disbelieving the
contention of the appellant that the VBV password can only be generated
by giving personal information. The District Commission has also erred in
awarding a sum of Rs. 50,105/- alongwith Rs. 10,000/- on account of
mental harassment. Therefore, the impugned judgment is erroneous on
facts because there was no deficiency in service on the part of the appellant;
the District Commission has no jurisdiction to try the complaint since the
transactions had taken place outside the jurisdiction of the District
Commission concerned. Therefore, the impugned judgment is liable to be
set aside. 6. Learned counsel for the respondent has stated that the guidelines of
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has given protection where the unauthorised
transactions occurs due to contributory fraud / negligence / deficiency on 4 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 17.05.2024
 63 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Ish Mohan Negi

the part of the bank, making the complaint about such fraud and deficiency
on the part of the bank. In the table, the customer's liability has been shown
of a customer wherein if the complaint about the fraudulent transactions is
made within three working days, then the liability of the customer is zero. 7. We have heard learned counsel for the appellant as well as
respondent in person and perused the material available on record. 8. We have also perused the guidelines of RBI through the notification
Nos. RBI/2013-14/296 dated 27.09.2013 and RBI/2017-18/15 dated
06.07.2017. In the above guidelines dated 06.07.2017, it is mentioned in
para Nos. 3, 4 & 5. ii. robust and dynamic fraud detection and prevention
 mechanism; protect themselves against the liabilities arising
 therefrom; and
 v. a system of continually and repeatedly advising
 customers on how to protect themselves from
 electronic banking and payments related fraud. 5. Banks must ask their customers to mandatorily
 register for SMS alerts and wherever available register for
 e-mail alerts, for electronic banking transactions. The
 SMS alerts shall mandatorily be sent to the customers,
 while email alerts may be sent, wherever registered. The
 customers must be advised to notify their bank of any
 unauthorised electronic banking transaction at the earliest
 after the occurrence of such transaction, and informed that
 the longer the time taken to notify the bank, the higher will
 be the risk of loss to the bank/ customer. To facilitate this,
 banks must provide customers with 24x7 access through
 multiple channels (at a minimum, via website, phone 6 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 17.05.2024
 63 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Ish Mohan Negi

 banking, SMS, e-mail, IVR, a dedicated toll-free helpline,
 reporting to home branch, etc.) for reporting unauthorised
 transactions that have taken place and/ or loss or theft of
 payment instrument such as card, etc. Banks shall also
 enable customers to instantly respond by "Reply" to the
 SMS and e-mail alerts and the customers should not be
 required to search for a web page or an e-mail address to
 notify the objection, if any. Further, a direct link for
 lodging the complaints, with specific option to report
 unauthorised electronic transactions shall be provided by
 banks on home page of their website. The loss/ fraud
 reporting system shall also ensure that immediate response
 (including auto response) is sent to the customers
 acknowledging the complaint along with the registered
 complaint number. The communication systems used by
 banks to send alerts and receive their responses thereto
 must record the time and date of delivery of the message
 and receipt of customer's response, if any, to them. This
 shall be important in determining the extent of a
 customer's liability. The banks may not offer facility of
 electronic transactions, other than ATM cash withdrawals,
 to customers who do not provide mobile numbers to the
 bank. On receipt of report of an unauthorised transaction
 from the customer, banks must take immediate steps to
 prevent further unauthorised transactions in the account." 9. It is further contended on behalf of the respondent that the
respondent made a complaint regarding unauthorised and fraudulent
transactions of Rs. 45,000/- to the Bank immediately on the same day
through his registered mobile number and through SMS and filed a copy 7 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 17.05.2024
 63 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Ish Mohan Negi

of such application to this regard vide paper No. 22 Annexure-1. In the
affidavit, Sh. O. P. Sharma, Chief Manager, PNB has admitted (paper
Nos. 115 to 120) that the intimation about such forged / fraudulent
transaction was immediately given by the respondent - complainant to the
Bank. The evidence available on the appeal file, it is also established that
the respondent had sent several reminders to the Bank about such illegal
transactions through his credit card. As per the guidelines dated
27.09.2013 and 06.07.2017, if the complaint regarding fraudulent
transactions is made within three working days, then the liability of the
customer is Zero liability. 10. From the record, it is also evident that the fraudulent and illegal
transactions of Rs. 45,000/- were made through Pakistan. Respondent has
clearly averred in the affidavit and evidence that he never intimated his
particulars, CVV value of the credit card and personal information to any
other person to make the illegal transactions. 11. It is also evident on record that after receiving the information about
such illegal transactions, the respondent immediately got his credit card
blocked after contacting with the credit card division of the Bank and also
lodged a complaint about such incident to the P.S. Patel Nagar, Dehradun
and on the very same day, the respondent has forwarded the transaction
dispute form alongwith police report to the Bank through online. 12. All the above facts have revealed that the respondent was having a
credit card alongwith him and he was also available in the address
mentioned in the complaint. The observation of the District Commission
below is justified that if the information about the credit card password and
CVV value was shared by the respondent to some other person, then he 8 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 17.05.2024
 63 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Ish Mohan Negi

would neither lodge the FIR nor he would get his credit card blocked from
the credit card division of the Bank. The District Commission has rightly
observed that the respondent had taken all the necessary steps which were
required to be taken after getting knowledge of illegal transaction. 13. We are of the considered view that such finding of the Commission
is appropriate because if the said transactions were made with the consent
of respondent, then he would not have given intimation to the Bank
immediately. Thus, we are of the definite opinion that there is no
negligence on the part of the respondent. 14. In the guidelines RBI/2013-14/296 dated 27.09.2013, reference is
mentioned regarding the circular No. DPSS PD CO. No.
513/02.14.003/2011-2012 dated September 22, 2011 on security issues
and risk mitigation measures related to Card Present (CP) transactions and
circulars DPSS (CO) PD No. 1462/2377/02.14.003/2012-13 dated
February 28, 2013 and June 24, 2013 respectively on security and risk
mitigation measures for electronic payment transactions, wherein various
timelines were indicated for compliance. But several banks had
approached for seeking further extension of the time line of September 30,
2013 for complying with the task of securing the technology infrastructure.
But the RBI had decided not to grant any further extension of time and
ordered the following course of action is mandated:- 15. Thus, as per the guidelines mentioned in the above said
notifications, if the issuing banks had not taken action upon receiving the
complaint about illegal and fraudulent transactions of credit card holder,
then the issuing bank shall pay the disputed amount to the customers. 16. In the present case, the respondent has made the intimation to the
Bank immediately about the fraudulent and illegal transactions to the tune
of Rs. 45,000/-, but within three days, the appellant Bank did not take any
action and as per the written statement and evidence of the appellant Bank,
a letter was issued on dated 23.07.2013, but no concrete and reliable
evidence has been given by the Bank to this regard whether such letter was
actually dispatched to the respondent through registered post or by email 10 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 17.05.2024
 63 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Ish Mohan Negi

whereas the respondent has contended that such letter was received by him
through email dated 22.11.2013. The said act was not specifically denied
in the written statement of the appellant - opposite party. 17. If the illegal and fraudulent transactions were made without sharing
CVV value and password to any other person, even then the transactions
have taken place in any other county, i.e. Pakistan, in such circumstances,
it will be deemed that there was no negligence on the part of the respondent - complainant and such transactions took place due to the reason that the
Bank had not provided sufficient proof security for the credit card
transaction. 18. Learned counsel for the appellant has referred the following case
laws, which are as follows: 19. In the case of Parveen Kumar Jain vs. HDFC Bank Ltd. (supra),
the Hon'ble National Commission has held that "as per these instructions,
there will be zero liability of a customer, where the unauthorized
transaction occurs in the events of Contributory fraud/ deficiency on the
part of the bank. The instructions also take care of third party breach where
the deficiency lies neither with the bank nor with the customer but lies
elsewhere in the system. If customer notifies the Bank of such transaction
within three working days, then zero liability lies with the customer." In the above case , the Hon'ble National Commission has set aside
the order so the State Commission as well as District Commission and
allow the complaint with the directions to the respondent - HDFC Bank to
reverse the transactions with respect to the fraudulent transactions which
took place on dated 30.03.2014 for a total amount of Rs. 24,000/-. In case
this amount has already been recovered from the complainant, the Bank is
liable to refund the same alongwith interest / penalty charged on such
amount and such refund shall be payable to the complainant alongwith
interest with litigation charges. In the instant case, the respondent - complainant had paid the
amount of illegal transaction alongwith charges, so the above said case is
fully applicable to the case in hand. 20. In the case of State Bank of India vs. Dr. J.C.S. Kataky (supra),
the Hon'ble National Commission has held that "A plain reading of this
provision is sufficient to establish that once the complaint was made citing
specific incidents of unauthorised withdrawal, it was the duty of the Bank
to have carried out the necessary verification in the matter, rather than 12 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 17.05.2024
 63 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Ish Mohan Negi

washing their hands off from the whole episode. Evidently, there has been
deficiency in service on the part of the Bank, vis-à-vis, the
consumer/complainant. It is held, therefore, that the consumer fora below
have made a correct appreciation of the facts and circumstances on record
which deciding the complaint in favour of the complainant. Moreover, it
is a settled legal proposition that the powers in the exercise of the revisional
jurisdiction are used only if there is a jurisdictional error or material defect
in the orders passed by the consumer fora". Therefore, on such discussion,
the Hon'ble National Commission dismissed the revision petition on merit. 21. In the case of Chairman, Punjab National Bank & Anr. vs.
Leader Valves Ltd. (supra), the Hon'ble National Commission has held
that "it is seen that the Complainant, on his part, had been diligent and
dutiful in bringing the unauthorized transfers to the notice of the Bank
without undue delay, he brought the unauthorized transactions to the
Bank's notice the same day, in the evening, on checking his accounts. His
responsibility ended there, and the Bank's responsibility started, it was the
Bank's responsibility to identify the systemic failure, remedy the pecuniary
loss and injury to the Complainant." In the abovesaid case, the Hon'ble National Commission has also
confirmed the order of the State Commission wherein the award was made
in favour of the complainant. 22. In the case of HDFC Bank Limited and another vs. Jesna Jose (supra), the Hon'ble National Commission has held that "The first
fundamental question that arises is whether the Bank is responsible for an
unauthorized transfer occasioned by an act of malfeasance on the part of
functionaries of the Bank or by an act of malfeasance by any other person
(except the Complainant / account-holder). The answer, straightaway, is in 13 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 17.05.2024
 63 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Ish Mohan Negi

the affirmative. If an account is maintained by the Bank, the Bank itself is
responsible for its safety and security. Any systemic failure, whether by
malfeasance on the part of its functionaries or by any other person (except
the consumer / account-holder), is its responsibility, and not of the
consumer." and dismissed the revision and confirmed the order of the State
Commission as well as the District Commission. 23. So in the light of the above cited case laws, it is proved that there
was no negligence on the part of the respondent and he had immediately
intimated about the occurrence / illegal transactions made from his credit
card to the Bank by sending letters and through email, but nothing was
done by the Bank within three working days. The illegal transactions were
made through Pakistan. It is not proved on record that the respondent had
shared the CVV value, password and personal information of his credit
card to someone else. 24. The appellant had not filed any such cogent evidence to this effect
that the respondent was negligent and he has shared his confidential
information about his credit card to someone else, therefore, we find no
negligence or carelessness on the part of the respondent. 25. So far as the jurisdiction of the District Commission is concerned,
as per Section 11 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, the address of
respondent and the appellant is mentioned in the complaint of the District
Dehradun, therefore, the District Commission of Dehradun was fully
empowered to entertain the complaint of the respondent. 26. We are of the considered view that the District Commission has not
committed any error in awarding the sum of Rs. 50,105/- alongwith 14 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 17.05.2024
 63 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Ish Mohan Negi

Rs.10,000/- towards mental agony and Rs. 3,000/- for litigation charges to
the respondent. Thus, we are of the considered view that the District
Commission has exercised the jurisdiction which was vested in it and the
impugned judgment is perfectly and appropriately passed by the District
Commission concerned. There is no perversity and infirmity in passing of
the impugned judgment. Thus, the impugned judgment deserves to be
affirmed and the appeal is liable to be dismissed. 27. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed. Impugned judgment and
order dated 08.01.2019 passed by the District Commission, Dehradun is
hereby affirmed. No order as to costs of the appeal. 28. A copy of this Order be provided to all the parties free of cost as
mandated by the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 / 2019. The Order be
uploaded forthwith on the website of the Commission for the perusal of
the parties. The copy of this Order be sent to the concerned District
Commission for record and necessary information. 29. File be consigned to record room along with a copy of this Order. (Ms. Kumkum Rani)
 President

 (Mr. B.S. Manral)
 Member
Pronounced on: 17.05.2024 15