1. This is an application by the original plaintiff, who had filed Regular Civil Suit No. 94 of 1959 in the Court of Civil Judge (Junior Division) at Karjan for the recovery of Rs. 3700/- from two persons, who were attendants Nos. 1 and 2. In the suit defendant No. 2 was sought to be made liable because he was a member of a joint Hindu family consisting of defendants Nos. 1 and 2, although the promissory note was executed by defendant No. 1 alone. 2. The plaintiff then gave an application for amending the plaint in the following terms: 3. This application was rejected and hence this revision application. 4. The learned counsel for the opponents contends that this revision application does not lie, because this is not a case decided, and he relies on Mt. Suraj Pali v. Anya Pretinidhi Sabha , AIR 1936 All 686, which is a ruling of a Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court. On this point, as observed by the learned Judges of the Allahabad High Court, there was a conflict of opinion in the Allahabad High Court itself and there is a conflict of opinion between the Allahabad High Court and some other High Courts, namely, Calcutta and Madras High Court. Vide (1) Sivaprasad Ram v. Tricomdas Coverji Bhoja, ILR 42 Cal 926 : (AIR 1916 Cal 318), (2) Salam Chand Kannyram v. Bhagwan Das Chitha-nia, ILR 53 Cal 767 : (AIR 1926 Cal 1149), (3) Shri Krishna Dass v. Chandook Chand, ILR 32 Mad 334, and (4) Kariya Goundan v. Tirukkaivelu , AIR 1925 Mad 585 (2). 5. The question whether the decision of a court on an interlocutory petition amounts to a case decided has been (sic) the conflict of conflict. The learned Judges of the Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court considered that the word 'case' could not be given a wide meaning so as to cover an interlocutory order passed by a Court during the trial of the suit. But the Calcutta High Court and the Madras High Court are of the contrary view. In ILR 42 Cal 926 : (AIR 1916 Cal 318), it was observed that the High Court can interfere with interlocutory orders when they might lead to failure of justice or irreparable injury. It was further observed as under : In ILR 53 Cal 767 : (AIR 1926 Cal 1149), Cuming J., on-served as under: and Page, J. observed thus: In AIR 1925 Mad 585 (2), it was held as under : In ILR 32 Mad 334, it was held as under: 6. To decide this question was must refer to the relevant law. Section 115, Civil Procedure Code, reads as follows : The words 'case decided' have not been defined in the Civil Procedure Code. The word 'case' is also not defined in the Civil Procedure Code. But the fact that the third clause of Section 115, C. P. Code refers to the powers of revision where the Subordinate Court acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity would show that the words 'case decided' would include an order passed by a subordinate Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction and which is not the final order. It has been observed by their Lordships of the Supreme Court in Chaube Jagdish Prasad v. Ganga Prasad , AIR 1959 SC 492, at p. 497, as follows: It is, therefore, clear that if a material irregularity is committed by the subordinate Court as regards some error of procedure in the course of the trial, that order can be revised and therefore an order of procedure also can be revised. This clearly shows that the words "case decided" include an order relating to some error of procedure. Moreover, Section. 107, Civil Procedure Code, reads as follows : This applies to appeals from orders. It is, therefore, clear that when an order is passed which is appealable and which does not amount to a decree, a cass is decided. I, therefore, agree with the view taken by the Calcutta and Madras High Courts that the order passed on an interlocutory application does amount to a case decided. 7. It is next contended that there is no material irregularity in the exercise of jurisdiction when an application for amendment is refused. As decided by their lord-ships of the Supreme Court, if there is an error of procedure in the course of trial which is a breach of some provision of law and the irregularity is material in that it may have affected the ultimate decision, then it would come within Section 115, C. P. Code. 8. Order 6, Rule 17, C. P. Code, provides as under : "The Court may at any stage of the proceedings allow either party to alter or amend his pleadings in such manner and on such terms as may be just, and all such amendments shall be made as may be necessary for the purpose of determining the real questions in controversy between the parties." If there is a breach of this provision of law, it would amount to an error in the exercise of jurisdiction. Of course, the question whether such an error is material or not would depend on the facts of each case. In the present case the liability of both the defendants was already alleged in the plaint. What is sought to be alleged by way of amendment is not any fresh liability of defendant No. 2 but a fresh ground or piece of evidence to show his liability for the original amount in the plaint, namely Rs. 3700/-. All that is sought to be relied by way of amendment is a document relating to an amount of Rs. 2501/-. By way of amendment a new piece of evidence is sought to be relied upon and not a new piece of liability. What is sought is defendant No. 2's liability for the full amount of Rs. 3700/-. The amount of liability is not sought to be reduced by the amendment. Such an amendment should, therefore, have been allowed. The amendment should have been allowed having regard to the original plaint and the provisions in Order 6, Rule 17, C. P. Code, and it may be material because the claim for the whole liability of defendant No. 2 may be affected by not allowing the amendment 9. I, therefore, allow the revision application, set aside the order of the Court below and order that the amendment be allowed provided the applicant pays Rs. 200/-as costs to the opponents as a condition precedent to allowing this petition, The opponents are at liberty to raise the question of limitation regarding the document sought to have been executed. The opponents-defendants will be allowed to lead evidence. No order as to costs.