These Criminal Petitions are filed under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. by

the petitioners-accused Nos.6, 3, 1 and 5 respectively, seeking to quash

the proceedings against them in C.C.No.2925 of 2025 on the file of the

learned XII Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Nampally,

Hyderabad, arising out of Crime No.24 of 2022 of Central Crime Station,

Hyderabad. The offences alleged against the petitioners herein are under Section 420 r/w. Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (for short ' IPC '). 2. Since all the four criminal petitions are arising out of C.C.No.2925

of 2025, they are heard together and disposed of by way of this common

order. 3. Heard Mr. V.Raghunath, learned Senior Counsel representing

Ms.Ayesha Saba, learned counsel for the petitioners in Crl.P.Nos.1916

and 1917 of 2022, Mr. Pasham Mohith, learned counsel representing

Mr. T.S.Anirudh Reddy, learned counsel for the petitioners in

Crl.P.Nos.1713 and 2441 of 2022; Mr. V.T.Kalyan, learned Special Public

Prosecutor representing Mr. Gadi Praveen Kumar, learned Deputy

Solicitor General of India appearing for unofficial respondent and 2 Mr. M.Vivekananda Reddy, learned Assistant Public Prosecutor

appearing for the State. 4. The petitioners-accused Nos.1 and 3 are the Companies. The

petitioners-accused Nos.5 and 6 are the practising Company Secretaries/

Chartered Accountants looking into the affairs of petitioners-accused

Nos.3 and 1 Companies, respectively. 5. The case of the prosecution, in brief, is that the de facto

complainant, who is the Registrar of Companies (ROC), lodged a

complaint stating that in collusion with Chinese fraudsters, accused

Nos.4 to 11 have opened virtual Companies-accused Nos.1 to 3 by

providing false information and also opened bank accounts in the name

of the Companies. The accused Nos.4 to 7 have certified/signed the

incorporation documents. All the accused in the crime have induced the

lower and middle class people in the name of instant loan mobile apps by

deducting high interest @ 36% per annum and processing fee of 23.6%.

During the course of inquiry, the Inquiry Officer has visited the registered

Offices of accused Nos.1 to 3 Companies and found that the said

Companies are not operating at the addresses mentioned in the ROC. 6. Basing on the complaint lodged by the de facto complainant, a

case in Crime No.24 of 2022 was registered against the accused for the 3 offences punishable under Sections 420 , 465 , 468 r/w. 120-B of IPC and Section 66-D of the Information Technology Act, 2008 (for short ' I.T.

Act '). During the course of investigation, as it was found that the

lease/rental agreements which were submitted by the accused before the

ROC are genuine, the offences under Sections 465 and 468 of IPC and Section 66-D of the I.T. Act are deleted. It was further found that the

accused are frequently changing their addresses. Even after entering into

the agreement, since the office was not opened by the accused, charge

sheet was filed against them for the offences under Section 420 r/w. Section 120-B of IPC. The same was taken cognizance and numbered

as C.C.No.2925 of 2025. Since accused Nos.2 and 10 are absconding,

investigation against them is pending and separate charge sheet will be

filed against them as and when investigation will be concluded against

them. 7. Following are the submissions of the learned counsel for the

petitioners: However, change of addresses was done after filing Form INC-22, duly

intimating the ROC about the same. Hence, the petitioners-Companies

have followed the procedure prescribed under law, while shifting their 5 registered office addresses. If really there was an ill-motive in changing

the addresses, there would be no obligation on the part of the petitioners-

accused Nos.1 and 3-Companies to comply with the mandatory

requirements. The said address change documents/Form INC-22 were

certified and uploaded by petitioners-accused Nos.5 and 6, who are the

Chartered Accountants. There is no embargo for a Company to change

its office registered address at any point of time so far as the same is

intimated to the ROC. 7.3. The irregular audits for the years 2019-20 and 2020-21 was due to

the freezement of accounts by the Police authorities, on account of

registration of crime vide Crime No.1134 of 2020 against accused No.8,

being the Director of petitioner-accused No.3-Company and others, on

the complaint lodged by one R.Venkat Mourya. After completion of

investigation, charge sheet was filed and the same was taken

cognizance as C.C.No.66 of 2021. Owing to registration of the said

crime, the accounts of the Companies were frozen and returns could not

be filed. However, as both the parties have compromised the said case,

the accused therein were acquitted. Without taking into consideration of

the said fact, the Police have filed the present charge sheet.

7.4. The involvement of the petitioners-accused Nos.5 and 6, who are

the Chartered Accountants looking into the affairs of the petitioners- 6 accused Nos.1 and 3-Companies was limited to facilitate the

incorporation of the Companies and conducting physical verification of

the addresses for correspondence provided by the Company. They are

authorized to upload incorporation/address change documents on ROC

website. They have nothing to do with the affairs and functioning of the

Companies and merely being professionals carrying out their

professional obligations were falsely implicated in the case.

7.5. Against the petitioner-accused No.6, disciplinary proceedings were

initiated by the Disciplinary Directorate, Institute of Chartered Accountant

of India. Pursuant to an inquiry, the Disciplinary Directorate found that the

petitioner-accused No.6 is not guilty of the professional misconduct.

There is no nexus between the petitioners-Companies and Chinese

Companies and sufficient material was not produced by the prosecution

to prove the same. The investigation conducted by the Police could not

identify any of the victims who have been cheated by the petitioners

herein. 7.6. According to Section 212 of the Act, Serious Fraud Investigation

Office (SFIO) is the concerned for investigating into the Company's

affairs. Initially, the SFIO conducts investigation and submits a report to

the Central Government, on the basis of which, prosecution can be

initiated against the accused. In the present case, without following such 7 procedure, the de facto complainant has straightaway lodged the police

complaint. 7.7. The accused No.10 is the Director of accused No.2-Company.

Accused No.2-Company is an entirely distinct Company which does not

have any connection with the petitioners-accused Nos.1 and 3-

Companies. There is no nexus between petitioners-accused Nos.1 and

3-Companies and accused No.2-Company. During the course of

investigation also, no nexus is established between petitioners-accused

Nos.1 and 3-Companies and accused No.2-Company, inspite of

examination of several witnesses. 7.8. The de facto complainant is the Registrar of Companies, which

overseas and regulates the functioning of Companies and as such the

question of inducing the de facto complainant to part with any property by

the accused does not arise at all. In order to prove the allegations

levelled against the petitioners, there is no crucial witness, except the

de facto complainant. Not even a single document was either produced

by the prosecution or de facto complainant. There is no dishonest

intention on the part of the petitioners herein to cheat or cause wrongful

loss to the general public and there is no specific allegation against the

petitioners that they have criminally conspired with each other to commit 8 an illegal act, hence, the ingredients of Section 420 r/w. 120-B of IPC are

not made out. 7.9. In support of their contention, learned counsel appearing for the

petitioners relied on the judgment of State of Haryana and others v.

CH.Bhajan Lal and others 1, wherein, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held

as follows: 7.10. They further relied on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in A.M.Mohan v. the State represented by SHO and another 2 and drawn

attention of this Court to paragraph Nos.13 and 20, wherein, it is held as

follows: 2024 INSC 233 10 20. The dishonest inducement is the sine qua non to
 attract the provisions of Sections 415 and 420 of IPC. In our
 considered view, the same is totally lacking qua the present
 appellant. In that view of the matter, we find that continuation of
 the criminal proceedings against the present appellant would be
 nothing else but amount to abuse of process of law resulting in
 miscarriage of justice." 7.11. They also relied on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dinesh Kumar Mathur v. State of Madhya Pradesh and another 3,

wherein, it is held that in order to constitute the offence of criminal

conspiracy, meeting of minds of two or more persons to do an illegal act

is must. 7.12. Relying on the said judgments, learned counsel appearing for the

petitioners prayed to quash the proceedings against the petitioners. 8. On the other hand, Mr. V.T.Kalyan, learned Special Public

Prosecutor appearing for unofficial respondent has contended that

serious allegations are levelled against the petitioners herein. The

accused Nos.2 and 10 are absconding and investigation against them is

pending. The Chinese nationals, who were indirectly involved in the

commission of offence, are not at all made as accused by the Police. He

further submits that the de facto complainant has lodged the present

complaint against the accused for the offences under Sections 427 and 447 of the Act, however, investigation was conducted by the Police with 3 2025 INSC 16 11 regard to other offences. Faulty investigation cannot lead to quash the

proceedings/acquittal of the accused, especially when the investigation

against accused Nos.2 and 10 is pending. He further submits that all the

allegations levelled in the complaint as well as in the charge sheet are

subject matter of trial, and hence, this is not a fit case to quash the

proceedings at this stage. Accordingly, he prayed to dismiss the petition. 9. Mr. M.Vivekananda Reddy, learned Assistant Public Prosecutor

appearing for the State, submits that the Police addressed letters, dated

01.02.2022 and 27.12.2022 to the de facto complainant calling upon to

furnish certain information/documents for the purpose of investigation.

Since the de facto complainant has not responded, the Police have filed

charge sheet before the trial Court after lapse of more than two years i.e.,

03.12.2024. 10. For proper adjudication of the matter, Section 212 of the Act, is

extracted hereunder: 11. Under Section 206 of the Companies Act, 2013 (for short, the Act'),

the ROC, based on the information received by him, seek for

explanation, call for production of document and conduct enquiry. If the

Registrar is satisfied on the basis of information available with him or

furnished to him or on a representation made to him by any person that

the business of the Company is being carried out not in compliance with

the provisions of the Act, he can proceed with enquiry. If the enquiry

conducted by the Registrar discloses material for further investigation,

he, under Section 210 of the Act, can report to the Central Government

to conduct investigation into the affairs of the Company. If the Central

Government considers the allegations as true and considering the gravity 15 of the offence that the matter was fit to be investigated by the SFIO,

directs the matter to be investigated by the SFIO, under Section 212 of

the Act. The Investigating Officers who were having better investigation

skills in forensic auditing, corporate affairs and capital market would

conduct investigation. The Registrar of Companies is a competent

person to call for the records, conduct an enquiry and to arrive at an

opinion. If there is any material, he would submit a report to the

Government for investigation by SFIO. If SFIO is able to collect material

sufficient to prosecute, then it would file charge sheet after taking

necessary sanctions from the Central Government. The condition

prescribed under Section 212(6) of the Act is a safeguard against

frivolous false complaints. 12. Under Section 210 of the Act, the Registrar of Companies can

report to the Central Government to conduct investigation into the affairs

of the Company. If the Central Government considers the allegations as

true and considering the gravity of the offence that the matter was fit to

be investigated by the SFIO, directs the matter to be investigated by the

SFIO, under Section 212 of the Act. After completion of investigation,

SFIO submits investigation report to the Central Government. On receipt

of investigation report, the Central Government may, after examination of

the report, direct SFIO to initiate prosecution against the Company and 16 its officers or employees, who are or have been in employment of the

Company or any other person directly or indirectly connected with the

affairs of the Company. However, in the present case, without following

such procedure, the de facto complainant has straightaway lodged the

present complaint, contrary to the procedure contemplated under law. If

the de facto complainant is aggrieved, he should have resorted to take all

necessary steps by following the procedure as contemplated under the

Act. 13. The main allegation against the petitioners herein is that in

connivance with Chinese nationals, they were involved in the micro

instant loan app scam to defraud the innocent victims. The de facto

complainant also alleges that a Chinese national indirectly holds 99.9%

in petitioner-accused No.3-Company. Having gone through the record, it

is evident that one Particle Technology Private Limited, a registered

Singaporean Company holds shares in petitioner-accused No.3-

Company, however, such investment was made in accordance with law

by filing Form No.8 and duly intimating to the ROC. Merely because a

Chinese official is associated with Particle Technology Private Limited, it

cannot lead to an assumption that the petitioner-accused No.3-Company

is involved in the commission of offence, in the absence of any sufficient

material being produced by the prosecution or the de facto complainant 17 and nothing was elicited even during the course of investigation. Since

from the date of registration of crime i.e., 31.01.2022 to the date of filing

charge sheet i.e., 03.12.2024, even a single victim has not been

identified by the prosecution. There is no averment in the charge sheet

as to the involvement of the petitioners herein in any suspicious

transaction, much less in the Chinese loan app scam. Hence, there is no

nexus between the petitioners herein and Chinese Companies. The

investigation conducted by the Police could not elicit that the persons,

whom the petitioners have cheated. Though there is an allegation with

regard to frequent change of addresses, as seen from the record, it is

clearly evident that the same was done after complying with the

procedure i.e., filing of Form INC-22, duly informing to the ROC. Hence,

it cannot be found fault with. 14. Learned Special Public Prosecutor appearing for the unofficial

respondent has strongly opposed for quashing the proceedings against

the petitioners herein, on the ground that accused Nos.2 and 10 are

absconding and investigation against them is pending. Having gone

through the record, it is apparent that nothing was produced by the

prosecution to show that there is nexus between the petitioners-accused

Nos.1 and 3-Companies and accused No.2-Company. Even during the

course of investigation also, nothing was elicited to prove that there is 18 any nexus between the petitioners-accused Nos.1 and 3-Companies and

accused No.2-Company. In the absence of any such material, the mere

fact that investigation against accused Nos.2 and 10 is pending cannot

be a valid ground to continue the criminal proceedings against the

petitioners herein. 15. A perusal of 161 Cr.P.C . statements of witnesses i.e., LW2/ Nicola

Anthony, LW4/Y.Satyanarayana Rao and LW5/G.Sunil Reddy would

disclose that they have entered into lease agreements/Membership

Agreement with petitioners-accused Nos.1 and 3 Companies. As the said

documents were found to be genuine during the course of investigation,

the Investigating Officer had filed charge sheet deleting Sections 465 and 468 of IPC and Section 66-D of the I.T. Act. Such deletion was not

challenged by the de facto complainant. Since the Investigating Officer

himself has found that the said documents are genuine, the allegation

against the petitioners herein that they are functioning in an unlawful

manner cannot be sustained. 16. Further, on a perusal of the record, Crime No.1134 of 2020 was

registered against the petitioner-accused No.8, being the Director of

petitioner-accused No.3-Company, on the complaint lodged by one

R.Venkat Mourya, who is the victim. However, in the said crime, both the 19 parties have entered into compromise and the accused therein were

acquitted. The victim himself has compromised the matter. 17. As seen from the record, the petitioners-accused Nos.5 and 6 are

the Chartered Accountants of petitioners-accused Nos.3 and 1

Companies respectively. The allegation against the petitioners-accused

Nos.5 and 6 is that they have uploaded incorporation/address change

documents on ROC website. It is to be noted that when the change in

office address was done in conformity with the procedure, the petitioners-

accused Nos.5 and 6 have performed their duties as a part of carrying

out their professional obligations and the same is in accordance with law,

it cannot be said that the petitioners herein have involved in the

commission of offence and cheated the victims. Furthermore, in the

disciplinary proceedings initiated against the petitioner-accused No.6,

after due enquiry, the disciplinary authority has concluded that he was

found not guilty of the professional misconduct. In the said background,

the petitioner-accused No.6 cannot be held liable. Since the petitioner-

accused No.5 also stands on the same footing of petitioner-accused

No.6, he cannot be also made liable. 18. Apart from that, to prove the offence of cheating under Section 420 of IPC, there must be dishonest intention on the part of the accused to

cheat the de facto complainant from the inception and there has to be 20 entrustment of property. Section 120-B of IPC deals with criminal

conspiracy. In the instant case, on a perusal of the allegations made in

the FIR or charge sheet, even if they are taken on face value, no

substantial and specific allegations have been levelled against the

petitioners herein and the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR or

complaint do not disclose the commission of any offence and make out a

case against the accused. Since the ingredients of offence under Section

415 of IPC are not made out, the offence under Section 420 of IPC is

liable to be quashed and to prove the offence of criminal conspiracy, as

there is no material to show that there is meeting of minds of two or more

persons to do an illegal, offence under Section 120-B of IPC is also not

made out. 19. For the foregoing discussion and in view of the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the judgments referred to above , this Court

is of the considered opinion that continuation of criminal proceedings

against the petitioners herein amounts to sheer abuse of process of the

law and the same are liable to be quashed. 20. Accordingly, all the Criminal Petitions are allowed, quashing the

proceedings against the petitioners-accused Nos.1, 3, 5 and 6 in

C.C.No.2925 of 2025 on the file of the learned XII Additional Chief

Metropolitan Magistrate, Nampally. Pending miscellaneous applications, if any, shall stand closed. ____________________
 JUVVADI SRIDEVI, J
Date: 30.04.2025
rev