he has come to depose that he has prepared paper

 in favour of M/S Nishi Diesel Cenre for which term loan to the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 9 tune of Rs. 17,000/- and cash credit of Rs. 50,000/- was

 sanctioned. 8. P.W. 2 Nagendra Kumar Agrawal, a businessman

 who claims that he was Vice President of Patna Auto and there

 is no shop like Nishi Diesel Centre nor he known A. K.

 Srivastava, owner of Nishi Diesel. P.W. 3 Vishwanath

 Chaudhary, he is clerk of Central Bank of India, Rajendra Nagar

 At the relevant time, account was opened in the name and style

 of M/S Supreme Auto, Exhibition Road, Patna. P.W. 4 Sheo

 Mistry has come to say that there was no shop in the name and

 style of Nishi Diesel and he ever heard in Kankarbagh. area.

 P.W. 5 Pradip Kumar Pandit, is the Postal Clerk and come to

 depose that he never delivery of letter to M/S Nishi Diesel. P.W.

 6 Pradip Kumar Nagbanshi, Manager of Central Bank of India

 has proved loan application in favour of M/S Nishi Diesel Centre

 which he sanctioned term loan of Rs. 70,000/- and working

 capital of Rs. 50,000/-. P.W. 7 Kameshwar Prasad Singh, Chief

 Manager, Gramin Bank, Purnea who was then the Accountant,

 Central Bank of India, Muradpur Branch submits that he has

 proved loan application of M/S Nishi Diesel and loan was

 sanctioned Rs.68,250/- and cash credit limit of Rs. 50,000/-

 P.W. 9 Yogendra Singh, owner of Super Traders has come to

 depose that there was no shop in the name and style of M/S

 Supreme Auto. P.W.10 Manohar Lal, Senior Manager, Central
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 10 Bank of Indian the then Cashier since 1981 to 1983 and stated

 that he prepared financial report of M/Sharat Engineering Work

 marked as Exhibit 10/10/1. P.W. 11 Bala Subramaniyam,

 Vaidyanath Bhawan, has proved Account opening Form in

 favour of M/S Supreme Auto and has proved his signature on

 the account opening form. P.W. 12 Somnath Karkar who has

 come to depose that D. N. Mishra come to charge to B.B. Rai.

 P.W. 13, Krishna Prasad, Assistant in Post Office has come to

 depose that he has not sent any letter between 1981 to 1982 in

 the name of M/S Sharat Engineering Work, M/S Bishi Lamp, M/S

 Nishi Diesel for collected the loan. P.W. 14 Devendra Nath

 Mishra, who is retired Bank Officer has deposed that he was

 Branch Manager from 1979 to 1981 of Central Bank of India,

 Muradpur while he was going to leave, the charge was given to

 B. B. Rai. P.W. 15 Niranjan Haula Das has come to depose that

 he was Manager mainly from the period 1982 to 1983 and

 C.B.I. seized the document and has proved seizure list and

 documents. P.W. 16 Lala Prasad, shopkeeper in Exhibition

 Road, Patna, deposed that there is no shop or firm in the name

 and style of M/S Supreme Auto, Republic Machinery. P.W. 17

 Dilip Kumar Srivastava, Manager of Central Bank of India has

 come to depose during investigation that he has handed over

 some paper to C.B.I. and has proved his signature in seizure

 Memo mark as Exhibit 10/35. P.W. 18 N. Baidyanathan is the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 11 Senior Manager, Central Bank of India in 1983, he was officer

 of Central Bank of India, Zonal Office, has come to depose that

 specimen signature of Atul Kishore was taken before him and

 proved signature of Atul Kishore marked as Exhibit 18 to 18/2.

 but in cross-examination stated that Atul Kishore had not made

 specimen signature before him. P.W. 19, S. R. Sinha, is the

 Assistant and has come to depose that he was account in C.T.O.

 stated that signature of B. B. Rai was taken before him. P.W.

 20 P. K. Sinha, has come to prove sanction against B. B. Rai,

 and the then Assistant Cashier as has given sanction for

 prosecution. P.W. 21 Amar Singh, G.E.Q.D. Shimla has come to

 prove the then Government Examiner Santosh Singh, signature,

 report marked as Exhibit-1 to 7 and has come to prove the

 report. He has proved signature on report as well as signature

 of Santosh Singh on the said report which has marked as

 Exhibit10/8. P.W. 22 J. K. Semwal, G.E.Q.D., Delhi he has

 proved signature of H. S. Teteha marked as Exhibit-10/81 and

 has deposed that S.P., C.B.I. Patna, vide letter dated 1.11.89

 forwarded documents received in the office of G.E.Q.D.,

 Calcutta, by Sri Santosh Singh, the then G.E.Q.D. (Exhibit-

 10/82) and after thorough scientific examination he arrived at

 certain conclusion and the same was forwarded to S.P.,

 C.B.I.,Patna, vide letter dated 13.07.89, typed by Steno,

 J.K.Dutta bearing his signature and signature of Santosh Singh,
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 12 marked as Exhibit 23. Defence has also examined Ravi Kumar

 D.W. 1 and Bishnu Kumar, D.W. 2. 9. Taking into consideration the evidence both oral

 and documentary by the prosecution and defence, the Trial

 Court gone into question whether the firms were in existence?

 and further whether the money was withdrawn in the name of

 non-existence firms on a fake quotation of non-existence firm

 shop/firms. The trial court taking into consideration the

 evidence of P.W. 2, 4, 5, 13 and 16, held that the firms were

 not in existence. The trial court further held that M/S Nishi

 Diesel Centre, Sharat Engineer Work, M/S Supreme Auto, M/S.

 Sabadika Engineering Works, M/S Republic Machinery Stores

 were never in existence. Further taking into consideration that

 accused persons have not filed any paper to suggest that their

 firms were ever in existence against whom loan was allowed for

 purchase of machinery and money advanced by Central Bank of

 India, Muradpur Branch and no paper has been filed in favour of

 their firms by which accused persons claimed to be proprietor

 were ever run and accused Atul Kishore, Navin Kumar

 Srivasstava, Anil Kumar Singh, Anand Kishore, Ashok Kumar

 Singh and Ashok Kumar Srivastava are alleged to have

 purchased material from the firm in the name of M/S Nishi

 Diesel, M/S Supreme Auto, M/S Republic Machinery, M/S Sharat

 Engineering work, but proprietor of these firm were never in
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 13 existence. 10. Further taking into consideration Exhibit A the

 judgment in Title Suit for recovery of loan amount held

 prosecution failed to prove that loan was advanced but took into

 consideration the statement of the accused persons recorded

 under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. where their admission that they

 had received loan sanctioned by the Branch Manager, Central

 Bank of India, Muradpur Branch. So held that appellants had

 taken loan in the name of fake firms, as per the oral evidence

 the firms were not in existence and hence trial court convicted

 and sentenced the appellants as mentioned above. 11. Learned counsel for the appellant, Navin Kumar

 Srivastava, submits that prosecution has neither proved that he

 applied for a loan nor has proved that loan sanctioned to him

 nor his specimen signature has been proved nor I.O. has been

 examined in this case nor his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. he had admitted any loan. 12. Learned counsel for the appellants, Ashok

 Kumar Singh, Atul Kishore and Anil Kumar Singh submitted that

 loan was taken in the name of Firms which were in existence

 and neither quotations were forged nor the application for loan

 was forged and Firms, namely, Pataliputra Electrical Works,

 Sarat Engineering Works, Supreme Auto, M/S Republic

 Machinery, Nishi Diesel Shop were in existence, but no step was
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 14 taken to verify that said firms were whether registered or not.

 The prosecution merely relied upon report and evidence of

 Postal Peon as well as some persons oral evidence that firms

 were not in existence and merely because money was not

 returned or repay it cannot be said that firms were forged and

 fictitious and there is no cogent and reliable evidence to suggest

 that quotations were forged. Moreover specimen signature of

 the appellants have also not been proved as specimen signature

 taken by the I.O., but the I.O. has not been examined in this

 case and further only evidence adduced that documents were

 forged. 13. Learned counsel for the appellant, B. B. Rai,

 however, submits that sanction order has not been properly

 proved and loan was sanctioned on the basis of loan application. 14. Learned counsel for the State however contends

 that evidence of P.W. 2, 4, 5, 9, 13 and 16 have deposed that

 these firms and shops were not in existence. The firms which

 took the loan were not in existence and the money was sanction

 to the non-existence firm which were not registered. The

 accused persons in criminal conspiracy have dishonestly and

 fraduluently withdrawn the amount from bank on fake firms.

 The accused persons had admitted under Section 313 Cr.P.C.

 that they have received loan sanctioned by the then Branch

 Manager. Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 15 15. Hence taking into consideration of respective

 submissions question for consideration as to whether

 prosecution has been able to prove the charges. 16. The prosecution case that the accused persons

 in collusion with B. B. Rai took the loan in the name of non-

 existence firms (S.S.I Unit) and forged the document for

 machinery for the said Unit in the name of non-existence shop

 and the Branch Manager, B.B. Rai granted loan in collusion and

 so Navin Kumar Srivastava cheated the bank by

 dishonestly/fraduluently inducing the bank and its staff to

 deliver Rs. 75,000/- as term loan and Rs. 50,000/- as working

 capital in favour of non-existent firm M/S Bishi Lamps,

 Kankarbagh Road, Patna, and forged quotation purported to

 have been issued by M/S Supreme Auto, Exhibition Road,

 Patna, which was a non-existent and bogus firm. Anil Kumar

 Singh had cheated the bank and its staff by dishonestly or

 fraduluently by inducing for delivery of Rs. 75,000/- as term

 loan and Rs. 50,000/- as working capital in the name of bogus

 and non-existent firm M/S Sabadika Engineering Works,

 Kankanbagh, Patna, purported to be issued by M/S Republic

 Machinery Stores, S.P. Verma Road, Patna. Anand Kishore

 had cheated the bank as a guarantor of non-existent firm,

 namely, M/S Bishi Lamps, M/S Sabadika Engineering Works and

 M/S Nishi Diesel Centre, Kankarbagh Road, Patna and induced
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 16 the aforesaid bank to deliver Rs.75,000/- as terms and Rs.

 50,000/- as working capital each to M/S Bishi Lamps, M/S

 Sabadika Engineering Works and Rs. 68,250/- as terms loan

 and Rs. 50,000/- as cash credit limit to M/S Nishi Diesel Centre,

 Kankagbagh, Patna. Ashok Kumar Singh cheated the bank

 and its staff by dishonestly and fraudulently inducing them to

 deliver Rs. 60,000/- as term loan and Rs. 50,000/- as working

 capital in favour of M/S Patliputra Electric Works a bogus and

 non-existent firm and purported to have been issued by M/S

 Republic Machinery Stores, S.P. Verma Road, Patna, which is a

 bogus and non-existent firm. Atul Kishore cheated the bank

 and its staff by dishonestly and fraudulently inducing them to

 deliver Rs. 75,000/- as term loan and Rs. 50,000/- as working

 capital in favour of M/S Sabadika Engineering Works,

 Kankarbagh, Patna, a bogus and non-existent firm and

 purported to have been by M/S Supreme Auto, Exhibition Road,

 Patna a bogus and non-existent firm. Ashok Kumar

 Srivastava cheated the bank and its staff by dishonestly and

 fraduluently inducing them to deliver Rs. 68,250, as term loan

 and Rs. 50,000/- as cash credit limit to M/S Nishi Diesel Centre,

 Kankarbagh, Patna, which was a bogus and fictitious firm

 issued by M/S Supreme Auto, Exhibition Road, Patna, a bogus

 and non-existent firm. Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 17 17. However, I proceed to take into consideration the

 evidence of the witnesses in the submission made by the

 parties. P.W. 2 is the business man has stated that in 1999 he

 used to do business at Kankarbagh, though, he is at the time of

 evidence was residing at Delhi and he has stated that in his

 knowledge, there was no shop like M/S Nishi Diesel in

 Kankarbagh. Further in his cross-examination, he has stated

 that he cannot say whether there was any shop in the name of

 M/S Nishi Diesel besides his motor company, though, he claims

 to be Vice President of Patna Auto Diesel Association. P.W. 4 is

 Sheo Mistry and has stated that he has not seen any shop like

 M/S Nishi Diesel in Kankarbagh. P.W. 5 is a retired Post Office

 employee and has stated that he was postman in between

 1982-93 and he never delivered any letter in the name of M/S

 Nishi Diesel. Further he has stated that he cannot say any shop

 in the name of M/S Nishi Diesel, Kankarbagh. P.W. 9 is a

 business man and has stated that he known Super Trader,

 Exhibition Road, Patna. However, he has stated that no any

 shop in the name of Supreme Auto, in between Exhibition Road

 or S.P. Verma Road nor any shop like Republic Machinery Stores

 and claims he known almost all the shops. P.W. 13 is an

 Assistant in the Post office claim that he was a Postman from

 1981 to 1983 and during that period he had not delivered any

 letter to M/S Sarat Engineering Works, M/SBishi Lamp, M/S
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 18 Sabadika Engineering, M/SPatliputra Electrical Works, M/SNishi

 Diesel, M/S Trishul Engineering and M/S Quality lamp either

 registered or non-registered. P.W.16 is shopkeeper since 1973

 and in between 1982 to 1983, there was no shop in the name

 and style of M/S Supreme Auto, M/S Republic Machinery and

 question arises on the basis of this evidence whether it can be

 held that these firms were non-existent or not. The evidences

 are with regard to the existence on non-existence of these firms

 and whether it can be held on the basis of these evidences that

 that these firms were fake, forged and non-existence. If a

 person says that he has not seen a shop does it mean that it is

 not in existence. It may mean that the person may not have the

 knowledge of that shop. 18. However, second set of evidence available in

 evidences of P.W. 6, 7, 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, 18 and 19 are the

 evidence of Bank officials and they have come to depose that

 procedure for grant of loan has not been properly followed as

 well as their evidences to the effect that loan was sanctioned

 and money was paid to these accused persons. However, on the

 basis of these evidences, it cannot be held or draw an inference

 that the firms were fictitious and bogus. P.W. 1 has come to

 depose that entry shows proposal for sanctioning loan in favour

 of M/S Nishi Diesel for term loan and cash credit loan of Rs.

 50,000/- and Rs. 75,000/- respectively and Branch Manager
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 19 issued term loan of Rs. 68,250/- and cash credit loan of

 Rs.50,000/-. He has also issued D.D. in the name of

 M/SSupreme Auto. P.W. 6 and 7 have come to depose that loan

 was sanctioned on the loan application of M/S Nishi Diesel of

 Ashok Kumar Srivastava of Fuel Pump Service and Repairing

 and in the said loan proposal M/S Nishi Diesel has also been

 received of cheque by Ashok Kumar Srivastava. P.W. 7 is also

 a Government employee has proved the loan application of

 M/SNishi Diesel Shop and term loan and cash credit loan. P.W.

 10 has come to say about preparation of financial report and he

 prepared financial report for M/SSarat Engineering Works

 marked as Exhibit-10. P.W. 11 is a also a Bank official and he

 has also proved the account of M/S Supreme Auto. P.W. 12 is a

 retired employee of Central Bank come to depose that B. B.

 Ram, Sub-Accountant was given the charge to D. N. Mishra on

 his transfer and has stated that B. B. Rai was next senior was

 taken charge. P.W. 14 has stated that when he used to take

 leave he handed over the charge to B. B. Rai. P.W. 15 has

 come to depose that document was seized by C.B.I. and has

 proved the specimen of Atul Kishore when account was open in

 his name. P.W. 17 has come to depose that he was technical

 officer of the Regional Office of Central Bank in 1982 and he has

 handed over the case to C.B.I. to investigate this case. P.W.

 18 has come to depose that specimen signature of accused was
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 20 taken before him. P.W. 19 is Assistant Accountant and he has

 stated that specimen signature of B.B. Rai was taken before

 him. P.W. 20 and 22 are G.E.Q.D. and has proved signature on

 the firms and other document by the accused persons, but I.O.

 who took the signature of the accused persons has not been

 examined to prove the prosecution. 19. However, P.W.8 is the most relevant witness in the

 case and he is a retired Central Bank employee and has stated

 that he was Assistant Branch Manager at Central Bank of India,

 Dakbunglow Branch from 1982 to 1986. He has stated that

 during the period he had inspected the Muradpur Branch on the

 direction of the Regional Office. He has come to depose that

 loan documents were blanks. Application forms were

 incomplete. The deed which were taken for security of the loan

 were not mentioned in the Memo Book. Further he has stated

 that during the period from 01.09.19812 to 31.12.1981 there

 was squeeze in sanctioning the loan and at that time B. B. Rai

 had sanctioned huge advance during that period. He has further

 stated that he verified it from the loanees. He has further

 stated that he could not trace out the unit of 10 parties

 (borrowers). He has further stated that R. K. Rudra the then

 Deputy Chief officer was assisting him in the inspection. He

 has further stated that accused B.B. Rai was also present on

 27.01.1982 during course of his inspection. He has stated
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 21 Nishi Diesel, Bishi Lamps, Sabadika Engineering Works, Sharat

 Engineering Works and Quality Lamps etc. were non-existent

 firms and loanees were not found at the addresses on which the

 loans were sanctioned. He has proved the signature of accused

 B. B. Rai on the Financial Report, project report, account

 opening forms, specimen cards. He has further stated that

 there is principle for priority for grant of loan of small scale unit

 and M/SNishi Diesel, M/S Sabadika Engineering, M/S Sarat

 Engineering Works, M/S Quality Lamp are small scale unit. He

 has stated on the address on which loan was granted to the

 loanees were not found. The units were non-existent. He has

 stated that during inspection he has inspected the loan

 document of Sarat Engineering, he has stated that loan was

 sanctioned to the tune of Rs. 50,000/- cash credit and

 Rs.1,00,000/- term loan were signature of B. B. Rai on financial

 report. He has also proved cash credit and term loan. He has

 also proved document of M/S Nishi Diesel in sanctioning loan.

 He has also proved signature of B. B. Rai on account opening

 form of M/S Bishi Lamp, M/SSabadika Engineering, loan

 document of Pataliputra Electrical Works in which loan has been

 sanctioned. He has also proved term loan, working loan of

 M/SQuality Lamp, M/S Nishi Diesel and Pataliputra Machinery

 Units and D.D. voucher issued. In his further cross examination

 he has stated at the time of grant of loan to the borrower all the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 22 related documents were kept in one set. He has further stated

 that M/S Sarat Engineering has granted provisional registration

 bearing registration no. 3/10/05/96 dated 21.09.1981. He has

 further stated in his evidence that he did not enquire from the

 Director of Industries as to whether these firms were registered

 or not. He has stated that in loan application form some

 columns are vacant. Further he has stated he did not know

 whether any case has been filed in the court of Sub Judge V

 against M/S Sarat Engineering. In his further cross-examination

 he has stated that registration of Auto Diesel is not amongst

 paper person. However, he has stated that paper of registration

 of provisional registration of M/S Quality Lamp was attached.

 Photo copy of registration of M/S Pataliputra Electrical Work,

 provisional registration of M/S Sabadika Engineering has also

 attached. Registration paper of M/S Trishul Engineering was

 also attached and there is application of M/S Nishi Diesel, but

 papers of registration were not attached. However, registration

 of M/S Bishi Lamp was also attached. He has further started

 that his inspection report was not on record. He has further

 stated explanation of B. B. Rai was not taken at the time of

 inspection. 20. Hence going into the entire evidence that there

 are four sets of evidence. The first set of evidence is evidence of

 P.W. 2,4,9 and 16 the business men who deposed that they had
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 23 not seen the firm/shop and there were no firm/shop who took

 loan for supply of article. P.W. 5 and 13 are the postman who

 deposed that they had not delivered any letter in the names of

 those firms. On the basis of this evidence, it is held that the

 firms were non-existence and so the application for loan on their

 behalf and the quotation given by the shops or firms are forged

 as they were non-existent. 21. The second set of evidence are the evidence of

 Bank officials, P.W. 6,7,10,12,14, 15, 17, 18 and 19 who have

 come to depose that applications were filed for grant of loan,

 the same was processed. Formal report prepared, loans were

 sanctioned and money was paid by cheque. The signature of

 the accused persons have been proved on loan document on the

 cheque issued. The money has been given by cheque to the

 firms and the procedure for grant of loan has been properly

 followed and the accused persons received the amount which

 was not returned by the accused. 22. However the third set of evidence is the evidence

 of P.W.8 who deposed that he inspected the Muradpur Branch

 during the relevant period on the direction of Regional Office.

 He deposed that the loan document was incomplete. The forms

 were not wholly filled as some columns were blank. He could

 not trace out the S.S.I Unit of ten borrower and the loanee were

 not found on the address given. But in cross-examination, he
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 24 admitted that he found papers with regard to the registration of

 the firms of Sarat Engineering, M/S Quality Lamp, Patliputra

 Chemical, M/S Sabadika Engineering and M/S Nishi Diesel. He

 further deposed that he did not enquire from the direction of

 industries as to whether these firms were registered under the

 Industries Department. 23. The fourth set of evidence is the evidence of

 Government Examiner of question document to prove the

 signature of the accused persons on loan document and receipt

 of the cheque and withdrawing the amount by cheque in their

 account. However, the I.O. who took the specimen signature of

 the accused has not come to depose and prove the specimen

 signature of the accused taken by him. 24. Hence first set of evidence only show that they

 have no knowledge about the existence of these firms as they

 have neither seen nor have deliver any letter to those firms.

 This is one aspect of the matter. The second set of the evidence

 is evidence of Bank Officer that loan applications filed and

 money sanctioned. 25. However to the contrary, though, P.W.8 has come

 to support the evidence of first and second set of the evidence

 that loan applications filed but columns were vacant and

 address on which loan was granted to the loanee were not

 found. The Unit were non-existent. The evidence of P.W.8 in
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 25 cross examination has deposed that there were papers

 regarding the provisional registration of the firms to whom the

 loan were sanctioned and those papers were attached with loan

 document. He has stated that the paper of registration of M/S

 Quality Lamp, Patliputra Electricals, M/S Sabadika Engineering,

 M/S Trisul Engineering and M/S Bishi Lamp and he did not

 enquire from Industries Department about their registration nor

 there is any evidence that those papers were forged. 26. However, this part of evidence of P.W.8 has not

 been challenged by prosecution nor P.W. 8 has been declared

 hostile and accepting this evidence, it is apparent that these

 firms who applied for loan and their loan proceeds with the

 papers regarding the registration was on record of loan

 document prima facie evidence of their existence as S.S.I Unit

 being registered under Industries Department and this

 documentary evidence shall prove on the oral evidence of the

 witness that they have not seen the firm to held it non-existent. 27. P.W.8 has specifically stated about the existence

 document of registration of those firms. He found that record

 during his inspection of the Muradpur Branch. His further

 evidence that he did not enquire from the Industries

 Department about the registration of these firms as S.S.I Unit in

 the Industries Department. There is also no evidence that

 those papers regarding the registration of firms by Industries
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 26 Department were forged. There is neither any investigation or

 enquiry about the genuinety of the papers found regarding the

 registration of those firms from Industries Department prima

 facie proved their existence. 28. The argument that the firms were non-existence

 on the basis of first set of evidence of P.W. 2,4,5,9,13 and 16

 without consideration of the fact and the evidence of P.W.8 that

 there were papers regarding registration of those firms by

 Industries Department and without any evidence regarding the

 genuinety of those documents being enquired, the possibility of

 the firm being non-existent or without evidence that those

 papers were forged, any finding, that firms were non-existence,

 is perverse as merely on conjecture and surmises. Once the

 decision drawn on the basis of evidence of first set of witness is

 doubted as no prudent conclusion is drawn, it cannot be held

 that firms were non-existence. 29. If the finding that firms were non-existence is

 ousted and held that firms were in existence with its registration

 as Small Scale Unit then in the light of the finding neither an

 offence under Section 420 or offence under Section 468 and

 471 of Penal Code is made out. 30. Section 420 I.P.C. is cheating is defined that if a

 person deceiving dishonestly and fraudulently by inducing a

 person to do or omit to do i.e. to deliver any property is said to
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 27 be cheat. Here the allegation that the fraudulent inducement is

 non-existence of the firm on which loan applied but once the

 existence of firm is establish fraudulent inducement vanish. 31. The forgery has been defined under Section 463 of

 Indian Penal Code. Whoever makes any false document with

 intent to cause damage to the public or to any person or to

 support a claim or to part with property with intent to commit

 fraud may be committed. Hence the forgery is mainly concern with making of

 false document to deceive a person to part with property. 32. The 32. Making of false document is defined in Section 464 of Indian Penal Code. A person is said to make a false

 document-- Firstly.--- Who dishonestly or fraudulently makes,
 sign, seals or executes a document
 or part of a document, or makes any
 mark denoting the execution of a
 document with the intention or
 causing it to be believed that such
 document or part of a document was
 made, signed, sealed or executed by
 or by the authority of a person by
 whom or by whose authority he
 knows that it was not made signed,
 sealed or executed, or at a time at
 which he knows that it was not
 made, signed, sealed or executed; or
 Secondly.--- Who, without lawful authority,
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 28 dishonestly or fraudulently by
 cancellation, or otherwise, alters a
 document in any material part
 thereof, after it has been made or
 executed either by himself or by any
 other person, whether such person
 be living or dead at the time of such
 alteration; or
 Thirdly.--who dishonestly or fraudulently cause
 any person to sign, seal, execute or
 alter a document, knowing that such
 person by reason of unsoundness of
 mind or intoxication cannot, or that
 by reason of deception practiced
 upon him, he does not know the
 contents of the document or the
 nature of the alterations. 33. However here under the fact and circumstance of the

 case, if the firms were registered as S.S.I Unit and loan were

 applied for the Unit and loan after process is sanction and

 cheque issued to the firms in presence thee of, then no offence

 is made out unless shown that loan was taken fraudulently

 under a false document. There is specific evidence that P.W.8

 did not go to enquire from the Industries Department whether

 the firms were registered nor he proceed to enquire whether the

 papers for registration filed with loan form were forged, neither

 the evidence is that the firms were provisionally registered.

 Once this evidence is taken into consideration which is based on

 documentary evidence, the evidence of first set of witness
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 29 cannot override it to conclude that firms were not in existence

 to hold that appellants commit cheating or forgery. 34. However, the trial proceeded on presumption that

 the since the firms were not in existence as per evidence of first

 set of witnesses, so the loan application were forged as firms

 were non-existence and on this fraudulent misrepresentation

 the loan was sanctioned by B.B.Rai to the non-existent firm and

 hence offence of cheating and forgery is establish. 35. However having regard to the fact as per the

 evidence of P.W.8 that firms were registered and documents

 were there in record of loan applications and there is no

 evidence that the papers attached with the forms were forged

 nor any enquiry from Industries Department about their

 existence of being registered, then the investigation itself

 appear to be perfunctory and in the fact and circumstance

 when there is conclusive evidence about non-existence of those

 firms the conviction cannot be recorded for offence of cheating

 or forgery. 36. The trial court misdirected itself is not consider

 the evidence of P.W.8 who inspected the loan document and

 gave a report. He found that document regarding registration of

 firm, but he did not go into the question to enquire whether

 these units were registered under Small Scale Unit by Industries

 Department. The evidence of P.W. 8 is most important. The
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 30 Investigating Officer also did not go into the question whether

 Units were registered under the Small Scale Unit and there is no

 evidence to the effect that these firms were not registered at all

 nor there is any evidence that the paper regarding registration

 of firm found on record was forged as not signed by the person

 whose signature was on those document. Hence it cannot be

 said that accused persons cheated the bank for term loan on the

 ground that loan was applied for non-existence firm nor it has

 been established that quotations were prepared in favour of the

 persons against whom signature made by different firms and

 hence it is not proper to convict the accused persons under Sections 468 , 471 and 420 of Indian Penal Code on the basis of

 oral evidence that these firms were not in existence without

 going into the question whether these firms were registered

 under Small Scale Industries Department. However, question

 arise that loan was sanctioned without verification of the

 existence of the firm or loan was granted without equity

 mortgage that may be negligent and on that basis, it cannot be

 held that these accused persons cheated the bank and bank was

 in collusion or under conspiracy sanctioned the loan. Moreover,

 there is no evidence regarding the fact that B.B. Rai sanctioned

 loan on pecuniary gain It is mere presumption that B.B. Rai in

 collusion with other accused persons for economic gain granted

 loan to the accused persons in the name of non-existence firms,
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 31 it is based on conjecture and surmises without any evidence to

 that effect that loan was granted under conspiracy and without

 any evidence mere on the basis of conjecture and surmises to

 the evidence of Postal Peon or shopkeepers that such shops

 were not existence, it is not proper to convict the accused

 persons for offence under Section 468 of Indian Penal Code.

 Further mere applying loan under Small Scale Unit, it cannot be

 said it was false and inducement for attract under Section 420 of Indian Penal Code, if the accused persons were owner of

 registered firm under Small Scale Unit and they applied for loan

 and loan form process and loan sanction, then it cannot be said

 it is dishonest inducement for grant of loan. If the Small Scale

 Unit was registered and applied for loan which was sanctioned,

 it cannot be said to be dishonest inducement to deliver money

 and in this background it is not held that these firms were non-

 existence and there is no report that firms were not registered

 as Small Scale Industry that these firms were not in existence

 and merely on the basis of evidence of some of the shopkeepers

 and Postal Peon that firms were not in existence, it is not proper

 to convict the accused under Section 420 of Indian Penal Code. 37. Hence taking into consideration the entire

 circumstance, the trial court did not go into the question

 whether these firms were registered or not and merely on the

 basis of evidence of the shopkeepers and Postal Peon hold that
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.177 of 2002 dt.23-07-2015 32 these firms were not in existence is not sustainable for

 conviction under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 and 471 of Indian

 Penal Code. Hence, order of conviction and sentence

 recorded by the trial court is hereby set aside and all

 appeals are allowed. The appellants of Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.

 177 of 2002, Sri Bankey Bihari Rai, Cr. Appeal (SJ) No. 180 of

 2002, Ashok Kumar Singh, Cr. Appeal (SJ) No. 183 of 2002,

 Atul Kishore and Anil Kumar Singh, Cr.Appeal (SJ) No. 184 of

 2002, Anand Kishore and Cr.Appeal (S) No. 201 of 2002,

 Naveen Kumar Srivastava are discharged from their liability of

 their bail bonds. (Gopal Prasad, J)

 m.p.