IN
			THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD
		
	

 

 

 

SPECIAL CIVIL
APPLICATION NO. 4171 of 2012
 

With 

 

SPECIAL CIVIL
APPLICATION NO. 1059 of 2012
 

 

 

 

 

FOR
APPROVAL AND SIGNATURE: 2.		The
petitioners in both these petitions challenge provisional attachment
order[s] No.2/2012 dated 15.03.2012 passed by the competent authority
and order[s] dated 10.07.2012 of adjudicating authority confirming
provisional attachment ordered by the competent authority. Further,
original complaint No.133/2012 is also common in both these
petitions, broadly, issue is with regard to subject properties in the
context of definition of proceeds of crime vis-a-vis
jurisdiction of the competent and adjudicating authorities under
provisions of Sections 5 and 8 of the Prevention of Money Laundering
Act, 2002 as amended in 2009 [for short, `the PML Act ']. 3.		The
petitioner of Special Civil Application No.4171 of 2012 has filed
this petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India with the
following prayers: [C1]	This Hon'ble
Court be pleased to issue a writ of or in the nature of mandamus or a
writ of or in the nature of certiorari or any other writ, order or
direction quashing and setting aside the Original Complaint No.133 of
2012 dated 11.4.2012 at Annexure K hereto, the order dated 10.7.2012
passed by the Adjudicating Authority at Annexure L hereto and the
letter dated 9.10.2012 at Annexure M hereto. [D]	Pending the
admission, hearing and final disposal of the present petition, this
Hon'ble Court be pleased to stay and suspend the operation and
implementation of; [i]	The the
Provisional Attachment Order No.02/2012 dated 15.02.2012 passed by
the respondent no.2 herein at Annexure H hereto insofar as it relates
to the subject property being the freehold non agricultural land
admeasuring 732 sq. mt. together with superstructure standing thereon
known as Jay Bungalow situated at Survey No.303
[paiki][formerly, Survey No.398 [paiki] of Final Plot No.213 sub-plot
No.4A [paiki] 4B [paiki] and 4-C, Ishavashyam Society, Vejalpur,
Ahmedabad-380015, and,
 

 

 

[ii]	The
directions / instructions issued by the respondent no.3 herein vide
letter dated 21.7.2011 at Annexure F hereto insofar as it relates to
the subject property being the freehold non agricultural land
admeasuring 732 sq. mt. Together with superstructure standing thereon
known as Jay Bungalow situated at Survey No.303
[paiki][formerly, Survey No.398 [paiki] of Final Plot No.213 sub-plot
No.4A [paiki] 4B [paiki] and 4-C, Ishavashyam Society, Vejalpur,
Ahmedabad-380015,
 

 

 

[E]	Pending the
admission, hearing and final disposal of the present petition, this
Hon'ble Court be pleased to direct the respondent no.4 not to refuse
registration of an instrument of transfer pertaining to the subject
property, being the freehold non agricultural land admeasuring 732
sq. mt. together with superstructure standing thereon known as Jay
Bungalow situated at Survey No.303 [paiki][formerly, Survey No.398
[paiki] of Final Plot No.213 sub-plot No.4A [paiki] 4B [paiki] and
4-C, Ishavashyam Society, Vejalpur, Ahmedabad-380015, solely on the
ground that the property sought to be conveyed is mentioned in the
letter dated 21.07.2011 addressed by the respondent no.3 at Annexure
F hereto. [E1]	Pending the
admission, hearing and final disposal of the present petition, this
Hon'ble Court be pleased to stay and suspend the operation and
implementation of the order dated 10.7.2012 passed by the
Adjudicating Authority at Annexure L hereto. [F]	Ex parte ad
interim relief in terms of prayers D and E herein above be granted. [G]	Such other
and further reliefs as deemed just and expedient be granted 
 

 

 

3.1		The
facts of the case, as per the petitioners of Special Civil
Application No.4171 of 2012, are as under. 3.2		In
the year 1990 the respondent Nos.6 and 7 purchased the subject plot
of land from its erstwhile owners and thereafter constructed a
bungalow on it. The respondent Nos.6 and 7 were therefore joint-
owners of the subject property known as 'Jay Bungalow'. That from
1997, the respondent No.5 availed of financial assistance from a
consortium of banks led by State Bank of India. The respondent Nos.6
and 7 mortgaged the subject property for securing the same. That in
the year 1998 Punjab National Bank joined this consortium by
sanctioning facilities of Rs.26.50 crore to respondent no.5 and
subsequently, during 2005-06 Punjab National Bank sanctioned
additional funds. The respondent No.5 defaulted in payment of its
dues in the year 2006. The State Bank of India and other banks filed
recovery proceedings before the DRT, Ahmedabad and Punjab National
Bank also filed recovery proceedings, separately. Further, Punjab
National Bank filed FIR against respondent No.5 and others alleging
that during 2005-06, respondent No.5 availed of certain loans by
conspiring with officials of Punjab National Bank without following
proper procedure and that the loans were not utilized for their
stated purpose. The State Bank of India took over possession of the
subject property under the provisions of Securitisation and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security
Interest Act, 2002 [for short, SARFAESI Act ]. Thereafter, the State
Bank of India put up the subject property for sale through bidding in
January, 2009 and 3 bids were received by the Bank. The
petitioner, apprehending that the full value of the subject property
may not be fetched, at the suggestion of the respondent No.5,
submitted its quotation for purchase of the subject property for an
amount of Rs.2,05,00,000/- and deposited Rs.15,50,000/- as EMD. 
Pursuant to the same, State Bank of India negotiated with the bidders
and the petitioners, having increased its offer to Rs.2,15,00,000/-
and being highest bidder, its bid was accepted. The petitioner
deposited the balance sale consideration and in order to facilitate,
the petitioner had taken a loan of Rs.1.82 crores from one Vikalp
Rasayan Private Limited and has also raised equity capital of Rs.40
lakhs. Thereafter, on 19.02.2009 State Bank of India confirmed the
sale in the petitioner's favour and issued a Sale Certificate and on
12.06.2009 conveyance deed was executed between State Bank of India
and the petitioner in respect of the subject property and
consequently the name of the petitioner was entered in the revenue
records pertaining to the subject property. 3.3		Charge
sheet was filed in the case pertaining to the FIR filed by the Punjab
National Bank on 26.11.2009 alleging that during 2005-06 a conspiracy
to cheat the bank was hatched to avail loans by misrepresenting the
financial position of respondent no.5 and allowing the funds to be
diverted. On 21.07.2011, the respondent No.3 addressed a letter to
the Joint Sub-Registrar, SRO, Ahmedabad-3 stating that investigations
were being carried out against respondent No.5 and its Director
Pradipbhai under the PML Act and that the subject property and other
properties were the subject matter of further investigation and
asking the Joint Sub-Registrar not to allow transfer / sale of any of
the properties without prior approval of the Directorate of
Enforcement. It is the case of the petitioner that unaware of the
aforesaid letter, the petitioner entered into an Agreement to Sale on
24.10.2011 with one Smt. Khushaliben G. Khatri in respect of the
subject property which was registered. Subsequently, the petitioner
came to know that, in the case of another property known as `Vishal
House' belonging to the respondent No.5, which was put up for sale
through public auction, when the auction purchaser of Vishal House
tried to subsequently sell the property, the Joint Sub-Registrar,
SRO, Ahmedabad-3 refused to register the Sale Deed on the pretext
that he was restrained in view of letter dated 21.7.2011 of the
respondent No.3 and that a petition is filed by the purchasers of
Vishal House seeking a direction to the Joint Sub-Registrar to
register the Sale Deed of Vishal House. In the circumstances, the
proposed purchaser informed the petitioner that she did not want to
purchase the subject property. 3.4		It
is further the case of the petitioner that before the petitioner
could take steps for challenging the said actions, the respondent
No.2 passed a Provisional Attachment Order attaching the subject
property under Section 5(1) of the PML Act. The said order is based
upon the charge sheet dated 26.11.2009 and proceeds on the basis that
the respondent No.5, instead of repaying dues of Punjab National
Bank, gave money to other companies which money ultimately reached
the petitioner for the purchase of the subject property and hence the
Directors of the respondent No.5 acted in a malafide
manner and again cheated Punjab National Bank and therefore, the
funds provided by the respondent No.5 are proceeds of crime derived
from the criminal acts as described in the charge sheet. 3.5		By
way of draft amendment, the petitioners have brought on record
certain subsequent facts that on 11.04.2012 the respondent No.2 has
filed Original Complaint No.133 of 2012 under Section 5(5) of PML Act
before the adjudicating authority. The petitioner filed its reply
pointing out, inter alia, that the authorities had no jurisdiction
and despite of this the adjudicating authority has passed order dated
10.07.2012 confirming the provisional attachment order. Thereafter
the petitioner has filed appeal along with stay application before
the Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi challenging the said order dated
10.07.2012 and as on the date the same has not been heard since there
is no Chairman appointed to the Appellate Tribunal. Thereafter, the
petitioner has received a notice dated 09.10.2012 from the
authorities stating that the authorities would be taking over
possession of the subject property and directing the petitioner to
vacate the subject property within 10 days from the date of receipt
of the letter. 4.		Mr.
Mihir Thakore, learned Senior Advocate, appearing for the petitioner,
placed reliance on schedule of the offences included in PML Act, 2002 and offences after amendment in the year 2009 and so on. Therefore,
according to learned Senior Advocate, those offences, which were not
scheduled offences prior to 2009 for which the petitioner could not
have been prosecuted and penal statute has no retrospective effect. 
Upon placing reliance on the facts narrated herein above, viz.
purchase of the property in the year 1990 by taking loans from Punjab
National Bank and other such transactions for which no offences were
registered and in a complaint certain sections of Indian Penal Code were added were not scheduled offences prior to 2009, it is submitted
that the petitioner is also a bonafide purchaser pursuant to
proceedings undertaken by State Bank of India and consortium under SARFAESI Act, 2002 and has no nexus with the alleged property out of
proceeds of crime. 4.1		Learned
Senior Advocate relying on the decision of the Apex Court in the case
of Janardhan
Reddy & Ors. v. The State [AIR 1951 SC 124]
submits that, prima facie, every legislation is prospective and there
is no reason to depart from this rule of interpretation in the
present case, more particularly, when certain offences were not
scheduled offences prior to Amending the Act of 2009 and also when
the transactions in respect of property in question were undertaken
prior to enactment of even Act of 2002 the penal provisions could not
be made applicable to the petitioner under any circumstances. 4.2		Learned
Senior Advocate for the petitioner relying on the decision of the
Apex Court in the case of Calcutta
Discount Co. Ltd. v. Income tax Officer, Companies District I,
Calcutta & Anr. [AIR 1961 SC 372]
submits that while exercising powers under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India a writ can be issued by this Court against the
executive authority or to issue such appropriate orders or directions
as are necessary in order to prevent persons from being subjected to
lengthy proceedings and unnecessary harassments by an executive
authority
acting without jurisdiction and alternative remedies available under
the statute cannot always be a sufficient reason for refusing quick
relief in a fit and proper case. When the property in question was
purchased initially in the year 1990 and other transactions were
admittedly prior to amendment Act of 2009 and various offences which
are now part of the complaint and charges were not scheduled
offences, as per the then existing provisions, the competent
authority and adjudicating authority under the PML Act have no
jurisdiction to exercise powers and therefore writ petition be
considered accordingly. 4.3		
Learned Senior Advocate further relied on the following decisions of
the Apex Court in continuation of his submissions about deciding writ
petitions on merit, though remedy may be available, in case of
challenge to the jurisdiction and powers of the authority under
statute: 5.		The
petitioners of Special Civil Application No.1059 of 2012 have filed
the petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India with the
following prayers: [CCCC]	Pending
hearing and final disposal of this petition Your Lordships may be
pleased to stay the operation and implementation of impugned order
dated 10.07.2012 passed by the adjudicating authority [ PML Act, 2001 ]
in original complaint No.133 of 2012. [D]	Any other
further relief as may deem fit in the fats of the case be granted; 5.1		The
facts of the case, as per the petitioners of Special Civil
Application No.1059 of 2012, are as under. 5.2		A
property situated in the limits of Mouje : Shaikhpur Khanpur,
Sub-Plot No.14 of Final Plot No.169 of Town Planning Scheme No.3
which was included in Ward No.TP 3/3-4, Shaikhpur-Khanpur, City
Survey No.1973 [16 units] was acquired by State Bank of India in its
consortium under provisions of Securitisation and Reconstruction of 
Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 . On
27.08.2009 the said property was put to auction / sale under SARFAESI
Act which was purchased by one M/s. JMD Media Pvt. Ltd. and on
05.09.2009 sale certificate and original title deeds as well as
peaceful possession were handed over to JMD Media Pvt. Ltd. 
Thereafter in October, 2010 petitioners came to know of inclination
of M/s. JMD Media Pvt. Ltd. and owners of other three units of the
said properties to sell the same. A sum of Rs.6 lakhs was initially
paid to M/s. JMD Media Pvt. Ltd. on 31.12.2010 and on 28.03.2011 sale
deed pertaining to aforesaid 16 units was done and registered at the
Sub-Registrar's office. On 08.04.2011 the petitioners, by way of
advertisement in the newspapers invited objections to the sale of the
said property and the petitioners also got a title search of the
aforesaid property from Solicitors who gave a Title Clearance
Certificate. On 24.10.2011 the petitioners proceeded to make payment
and entered into an agreement to sale which was registered by the
Sub-Registrar. The petitioners were given possession note pertaining
to the entire property and possession was also given. On 10.12.2011
sale deed pertaining to the said property was prepared and on
12.12.2011 the petitioners approached Sub-Registrar for registration
of aforesaid sale deed, but the Sub-Registrar informed that the sale
deed cannot be registered as the respondent No.2-Assistant Director,
Directorate of Enforcement issued notice dated 21.07.2011 restraining
registration of sale deed as investigation is carried out against
M/s. Vishal Exports, etc. 

 

 

 

5.3		It
is say of the petitioner that the petitioners are in no way connected
with M/s. Vishal Exports. It is further say of the petitioners that
they are bonafide
buyers of the said properties, which have been acquired by the State
Bank of India and its consortium under the provisions of SARFAESI Act which have been sold to M/s. JMD Media Services Pvt. Ltd. which in
turn has sold the same to the petitioners. 5.4		That
by draft amendment dated 26.03.2012, the petitioner has brought on
record the fact that the property in question came to be attached
vide Provisional Attachment Order No.02/2012 dated 15.03.2012 issued
under provisions of section 5(1) of the PML Act, a copy of which has
been sent to the petitioner No.1. 5.5		Thereafter,
by way of further draft amendment the petitioner has brought on
record that after passing the aforesaid provisional attachment order
No.2/2012, the respondent No.8 filed a complaint under Section 5(1) of the PML Act wherein the petitioners were also made party. The
petitioner filed their replies to the said complaint before the
adjudicating authority and explained that they were bonafide
purchasers of the property as well as disclosed the details of
payments made to the concerned respondent from whom the property they
purchased. The petitioners also raised other contentions and in
spite of that order dated 10.07.2012 came to be passed by the
adjudicating authority confirming provisional attachment order. The
petitioners have therefore filed appeals challenging the order dated
10.07.2012 in the Appellate Tribunal along with stay applications
prying for appropriate interim relief on 22.08.2012. The said
appeals and stay applications are pending as on date in the Tribunal.
 However, the said appeals and stay application are not likely to be
heard in the near future as there are no Chairperson and /or members
in the said forum. Further, during the pendency of the captioned
petition as well as the appeal and stay application in the Appellate
Tribunal, the concerned authorities have issued a notice dated
09.10.2012 which has been received by the petitioner on 11.10.2012
for taking over possession of the aforesaid property. 6.		Mr.
Mihir Joshi, learned Senior Advocate, would contend that respondent
No.2 has no authority to address a communication to respondent No.3
directing him not to register sale deeds. That only because of
directions are issued by respondent No.2 not to register sale deed of
the subject property, respondent No.3, the Joint Sub-Registrar of
State of Gujarat, though empowered to register sale deeds, has
refused to do so. By pointing out consequences of transactions about
the subject property, it is submitted that it was owned by one Anand
Owners Association, a non-trading corporation registered under the
provisions of the Bombay Non-trading Corporation Act, 1959 , and one
M/s. Vishal Exports Overseas Ltd [VEOL], which was occupant of the
aforesaid unit and which had obtained finance from the State Bank of
India by mortgaging the units. Upon its failure to make repayment of
loan amount, the mortgaged property was acquired by State Bank of
India and its consortium under the provisions of the SARFAESI Act,
2002 and it was put to public auction, whereby a procedure in
accordance with law was followed, including verification of title
deeds and issuance of sale certificate on 05.09.2009 and it was
purchased by respondent No.4-JMD
Media Pvt. Ltd. Thereafter the petitioner advertised in the month of
April, 2011 in a newspaper about any objections to the sale of
property for which an agreement to sale was entered into between the
petitioner and respondent No.4 upon payment as no objections were
received pursuant to advertisement and even title clearance
certificate was also given to the effect that no encumbrances did
exist over such property. Therefore, the action taken by the
respondent No.2 is not only contrary to provisions of PML Act , but
also violative of Articles 14 , 19 and 21 of the Constitution of
India. 6.1		Learned
Senior Advocate would further contend that the State Bank of India
and its consortium having undertaken lawful recourse under SARFAESI
Act, 2002 and the petitioner being a bonafide
purchaser from the auction purchaser and who has no nexus or
connection with the alleged proceeds of crime and the transaction of
property in question could not have been proceeded by exercising
power under section 5 of the PML Act of provisional attachment,
confirmation thereof and subjecting the property to a drastic action
of depriving the petitioner of the property, who is its lawful owner.
 The
direction issued by respondent No.2 to respondent No.3, who is an
authority under the Registration Act and also to perform duties under
the Bombay Stamp Act , not to register the sale deed, has no basis
either under PML Act or Registration Act and in absence of any
statutory provisions, no such direction could have been given by
respondent No.2 to respondent No.3. Learned Senior Advocate would contend that there are no charges
against the petitioner of having committed any scheduled offence and
therefore there is no likelihood of confiscation of property in
question or even frustrating of any proceedings relating to
confiscation and therefore, even provisional attachment and
conformation thereof deserve to be quashed and set aside. 6.2		It
is also submitted that if the definition of `proceeds of crime' is
seen, the property was with State Bank of India and its consortium
and it was purchased by respondent No.4 pursuant to auction sale. 
For other contentions, arguments canvassed by Mr. Mihir Thakore,
learned Senior Counsel in the cognate matter are adopted. 7.		Shri
Pankaj Champaneri, learned Assistant Solicitor General appearing for
the respondent authorities state that the Tribunal at New Delhi is
now functional and learned Chairman is also available. Not only that,
but hearing is also fixed in near future. 7.1		That
`Money Laundering' is a modern crime. It has social, political and
economic implications. The global crimes such as drug trafficking,
organized crime and terrorism thrive on money laundering. Large scale
laundering of money may cause economic and even political instability
in a country. Having felt the need for effectively curbing the
menace of money laundering, the global community has initiated
several steps including criminalization of money laundering. Money
laundering outwardly appears to be straight forward simple financial
transactions. Normally, it has as three stage transactions. First
Stage Placement: 8.1		Following
cases are booked against the persons by various agencies: Vishal Exports Overseas Ltd., Ahmedabad
		
		 
			 

Illicit
			diversion of goods imported under advance license
		
		 
			 

Rs.2,96,832
		
		 
			 

DRI/AZU/INT-29/99-Mumbai
			Port SCN-II dated 26.11.2002 -do- M/s. Vishal Exports Overseas Ltd., Ahmedabad
		
		 
			 

Illicit
			diversion of goods imported under advance license
		
		 
			 

Rs.46,46,164
		
		 
			 

DRI/AZU/INT-29/99-Mumbai
			Port SCN-II dated 25.9.2002 -do- M/s. Vishal Plastomers Pvt. Ltd., Ahmedabad
		
		 
			 

Fraudulent
			exports to Russia under the repayment to state credits Agreement
			between the Govt. of India and the erstwhile Soviet Union. Goods
			never reached Russia and were diverted and sold at other
			destinations like Dubai, Finland, Africa, etc. They had also
			exported garments to Dubai at highly overvalued prices
		
		 
			 

1]
			VEOL had fraudulently claimed reimbursement of Rs.9.2 Crores from
			the RBI. 2]
			Wrong availment of drawback of Rs.1.12 Crores and DEPB credit of
			Rs.2.17 Crores
		
		 
			 

DRI/AZU/INV-01/2004
			dated 19.07.2005
		
		 
			 

Pending
			for adjudication 6 M/s. Vishal Plastomers Pvt. Ltd., Ahmedabad
		
		 
			 

Export
			of readymade garments at highly overvalued prices so as to
			fraudulently claim higher DEPB benefits
		
		 
			 

Goods
			seized and hence no export took place
		
		 
			 

DRI/AZU/INV-01/2004
			dated 23.-7.2004
		
		 
			 

Pending
			for adjudication
		
	

 

 

 

 

 

[B]	Cases
booked by the Central Bureau of Investigation [CBI]: Details of
Immovable Properties
 

 

 
	 
	 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
			 
				 

Sr.
				No. (a)
				Particulars of the Property, (b) Date of Acquisition & (c)
				name of initial holder
			
			 
				 

Name
				of the Present Owner of the Property
			
			 
				 

Value
				as per Sale Deed 1 (a)
				Wind Turbines and rights of PPAs of the said Wind Turbines at
				location J-50 (Capacity 0.35 MW) & location J-80 (Capacity
				1.25 MW) at Jaisalmer, Rajasthan commissioned by Rajasthan
				Renewable Energy Corporation Ltd., Jaipur. (b)
				27/07/2009. (c)
				M/s. Vishal Plastomers pvt. Ltd., Ahmedabad
			
			 
				 

M/s
				FFR Software Pvt Ltd, Ahmedabad
			
			 
				 

Rs.2,75,00,000/- (a)
				The property earlier described as Land measuring 792 Sq yards
				with building therein located at Surya Prakash Co-operative
				Housing Society Ltd. S.No.114/1 and 114/2 Vastrapur, Ahmedabad
				now known as Bungalow no.18, Vasuma Hill Society, Near L.J.
				College, Opp. Saket Bungalows, Vastrapur, Ahmedabad-380015 . (b)
				01/07/2009 (c)
				Shri Pradip S. Mehta
			
			 
				 

M/s
				FFR Software Pvt. Ltd. Ahmedabad
			
			 
				 

Rs.2,45,00,000/- d) The said order
has been confirmed by the Adjudicating Authority vide its Order in
Original Complaint No.109/2011 dated 16.11.2011. e) It is
submitted that M/s.FFR Software Pvt., Ltd., which had purchased the
properties in auction of SBI namely at Sr. No.1 and settled the loan
in respect of property No.2 above is controlled by Shri Pradip Mehta
himself. It is submitted that in the course of investigation it has
also been found that many of the properties including Vishal House
which were auctioned by State Bank of India, have been purchased by
the entities controlled/known to Pradip Mehta. f) Funds have
come from M/s. Vishal Exports Overseas Ltd., which is the company
controlled by Shri Pradip Mehta (and of which he is the CMD), to
M/s.Vikalp Rasayan Pvt. Ltd., Ahmedabad and M/s. Global Nutrition and
Foods pvt. Ltd., Ahmedabad and then further diverted to M/s.JMD Media
pvt Ltd and M/s.Alive Hospitalities and Foods pvt Ltd for purchase
certain properties in Auction sale of State Bank of India in 2009. It
shows that VEOL was in possession of funds to pay to banks to repay
its outstanding dues & thereby reduce/compensate the losses of
the Banks. However, VEOL controlled by Pradip Mehta used those funds
to purchase properties in the names of abovementioned Companies
[M/s.JMD Media Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Alive Hospitalities and Foods Pvt Ltd.
And M/s.FFR Software Pvt Ltd]. These properties earlier belonged to
VEOL/Sh Pradip Mehta did with Banks, therefore, this money which
Pradip Mehta used for purchasing the properties can be considered as
money originated from Crime and the property purchased from such type
of money appear liable for attachment under Prevention of Money
Laundering Act, 2002 as mentioned above. g) The period of
formation of M/s.JMD Media Pvt. Ltd, M/s.Alive Hospitality and Foods
Pvt. Ltd. And M/s.FFR Software Pvt Ltd is June, 2008, which is just
before the auction of SBI. It is revealed in the course of
investigation that all these companies were formed on the directions
of Shri Pradip Mehta and the source of fund was also arranged by Shri
Pradip Mehta and all the companies have practically no business
activities as revealed by their Director, Rakesh Y. Bhatt and Sh.
Pravin T. Halvadia all the companies were used to route funds for
purchasing properties. Thus it appears that all these companies
directly or indirectly belong to/controlled by Shri Pradip Mehta. All
these companies are controlled by Pradip Mehta, though to hide this
fact, Pradip Mehta preferred not to become Director of these
companies and arranged his trusted associates for the posts of
Directors, or his relatives like Rakesh Bhatt and Falguni Bhatt. h) If Pradip
Mehta wanted to give loan to M/s.JMD Media and M/s.Alive
Hospitalities and Foods Pvt Ltd., then VEOl could have given it
directly, but to hide the direct connection of said companies to Shri
Pradip Mehta, Shri Pradip Mehta decided to give it through M/s.Vikalp
Rasayan and M/s.Global Nutrition. This is Money Laundering operation
masterminded by Shri Pradip S. Mehta. i) When
Directorate of Enforcement attached the properties acquired in the
name of M/s. FFR Software Pvt. Ltd., vide Provisional Attachment
Order No.07/2011 dated 23.06.2011, Shri Pradip Mehta started selling
the properties including Vishal House , which was then owned by
M/s.JMD Media Pvt Ltd., which is controlled by him. The said
Provisional Attachment Order No.07/2011 dated 23rd
November 2011 has been confirmed vide order dated 16.11.2011 in O.C.
No.109/2011 by Adjudicating Authority, PMLA, New Delhi. j) As
prima-facie, the said property Vishal House, Opposite Sales India,
Ashram Road, Ahmedabad had appeared to be involved in money
laundering, for stopping the sale/transfer of this property as a
precautionary measure the prohibiting letter dated 21.07.2011 was
served to Sub-Registrar, Memnagar and till date this property is
owned by M/s.JMD Media Pvt Ltd, as the title has not yet been
transferred. But Pradip Mehta has knowingly attempted sale of this
property, which was acquired from Proceeds of Crime, which is itself
a fraud committed with the Applicant. Thus, the liability of Pradip
Mehta is towards the Applicant. It is therefore prayed that the
seller as named in the unregistered Sale Deed, may be directed by
this Hon'ble Court to return the money to the applicant. k) Apart from
above, the Directorate of Enforcement is investigating the connection
of the applicant with Pradip Mehta and in this process statements of
Shri Jagdish Ishwarbhai Patel was recorded on 24.01.2012 and
statement of his son Shri Ankit Jagdishbhai Patel also have been
recorded on 07.02.2012 and 13.02.2012. The investigation under PMLA
is in progress and the Directorate is verifying the source of funds
of the applicant, which are used by him for making payments to JMD
Media Private Ltd., Ahmedabad. The chronological details of efforts
made by this office are as under:- Directive
					issued to Kalupur Commercial Cooperative Bank, Swastik Char
					Rasta Branch, Ahmedabad for providing details of Bank accounts
					of M/s. Global Nutrition and M/s.Vikalp Rasayan Pvt Ltd. 26.12.2011
				
				 
					 

A
					letter received from Shri Pradip Mehta including some
					clarification. In response to said letter, letter was issued to
					Shri Pradip Mehta enclosing a fresh summons dated 26.12.2011 for
					his appearance on 27.12.2011 declaring his letter as mischievous
					attempt to avoid presence. 27.12.2011
					
					
				
				 
					 

Shri
					Pradip Mehta appeared in office and his statement was recorded. 30.12.2011
				
				 
					 

Shri
					Pradip Mehta vide its letter dated 30.12.2011 submitted to
					details of IT Returns for A.Y. 2006-07, 2007-08, 2008-09 &
					2009-10. However, incomplete Returns were submitted by him. 02/01/12
				
				 
					 

Summons
					issued to Shri Pradip Mehta for appearance on 03.01.2012. 03/01/12
				
				 
					 

Statement
					of Shri Pradip Mehta recorded. Directives
					issued to Kalupur Commercial Cooperative Bank, Swastik Char
					Rasta for providing details of bank accounts of M/s. JMD Media 7
					M/s. Alive Hospitalities. Letter
					dated 03.01.2012 received from Shri Pradip Mehta enclosing the
					annual report of VEOL for year 2005-06, 2006-07, 2007-08,
					2008-09. 04/01/12
				
				 
					 

Summons
					issued to Smt. Falguni R. Bhatt for appearance on 04.01.2012. Statements
					of Shri Smt. Falguni R. Bhatt recorded on 04.01.2012. 04/01/12
				
				 
					 

Summons
					was issued to Shri Rakesh Y. Bhatt for appearance on 10.01.2012. 10/01/12
				
				 
					 

Letter
					of Shri Pradip Mehta dated 30.12.2011 enclosed I-T returns of
					M/s.VEOL were found incomplete except for A.Y. 2009-10,
					therefore a letter was issued to him on 10.01.2012 directing him
					to submit complete sets of details. It also enclosed the summons
					for appearance on 20.01.2012. 12/01/12
				
				 
					 

In
					regard to this office letter dated 10.01.2012, for submitting IT
					Returns of M/s.VEOL for A.Y. 2006-07, 07-08, 08-09, Shri Pradip
					Mehta wrote a letter dated 12.01.2012 to give precise details of
					documents required to be submitted by him with the request for
					adjournment till 23.01.2012 due to pre-occupation in other
					engagements. In
					regard to his letter, this office also issued him letter giving
					details of documents submitted by him with the directions to
					submit the balance documents. On
					12.01.2012 a letter received from S.B.I. containing the details
					of auction of Properties mortgaged by M/s.VEOL purchased by
					different parties including detail of payments. 13.01.2012
				
				 
					 

Summons
					was issued on 13.01.2012 to Shri Jagdish Patel for appearance on
					16.01.2012 and also to Shri Pravin T. Halvadia on 13.01.2012. 16.01.2012
				
				 
					 

Statement
					of Shri Parvin T. Halvaldia recorded. Fresh
					Summons issued to Shri Jagdish I. Patel Prop. Liberty Career
					Academy for appearance on 19.01.2012. On 16.01.2012. A
					copy of letter dated 04.01.2012 to Joint Sub-Registrar, Memnagar
					by Shri Jagdish Patel was endorsed to this office which is
					regarding the allowance of property Vishal House to get
					registered in the name of Jagdish Patel and family including the
					details of payments etc. 19 18.01.2012
				
				 
					 

On
					18.01.2012, letter received from VEOL regarding submission of
					I-T Returns for A.Y. 2007-08 with the promise to submit the
					other I-T Returns. 19.01.2012
				
				 
					 

Letter
					dated 19.01.2012 received from Shri Jagdish Patel requesting for
					adjournment on ground of sickness, then
					 

 

					
					 

Summons
					dated 19.01.2012 issued to Shri Jagdish Patel for appearance on
					24.01.2012 and also to Shri Pradip Mehta for appearance on
					23.01.2012. Letter
					received from Sub-Registrar, Memnagar enclosing the copy of
					letter dated 4.01.2012 and seeking for further directions
					regarding the property Vishal House . 23.01.2012
				
				 
					 

Statement
					of Shri Pradip Mehta recorded. On
					23.01.2012, he also submitted and excel sheet vide it letter
					dated 23.01.2012 regarding the utilization of funds of Packing
					Credit Limit taken from Andhra Bank from 01.04.2005 to
					31.03.2006. 24.01.2012
				
				 
					 

Statement
					of Shri Jagdish Ishwarbhai Patel recorded on 24.01.2012
					 

 

					
					 

Shri
					Pradip S. Mehta's letter dated 24.01.2012 received in which he
					made request to amend his statement dated 23.01.2012. 25.01.2012
				
				 
					 

Directive
					issued to Axis bank, Ankur branch for providing bank account
					details of M/s.JMD and Alive Hospitality and Foods Pvt Ltd. 27.01.2012
				
				 
					 

A
					reference was made to Joint Sub-Registrar, Memnagar directing
					him not to allow registration of Vishal House as the
					matter is still under investigation. 01/02/2012
					 

 

					
				
				 
					 

Directive
					issued to Bank of Baroda for getting details of A/c's of Jagdish
					Ishwarbhai Patel and his family members as he stated to having
					made payments from these accounts during his statement dated
					24.01.2012. 06/02/2012
					 

 

					
				
				 
					 

Summons
					issued to Shri Ankit Jagdish Patel for appearance on 07.02.2012
					and his statement was recorded on 07.02.2012. 10/02/2012
					 

 

					
				
				 
					 

Summons
					issued to Shri Ankit Jagdish Patel for appearance on 13.02.2012. 13.02.2012
				
				 
					 

Statement
					was recorded on 13.02.2012 6.	In view of the
facts mentioned above, this is humbly prayed that Shri Pradip Mehta,
who is the habitual offender and a number of cases have been booked
against by the C.B.I., DRI, R.B.I. And Directorate of Enforcement,
may be directed to return the money received against Sale of Property
 Vishal House, Opposite Sales India, Ashram Road, Ahmedabad to
the applicant and the lien of this office may be continued as the
said property Vishal House is still under investigation as it
is suspected to have been purchased from the money acquired from
Crime and hence may be found liable for attachment under Prevention
of Money Laundering Act, 2002 . [emphasis
supplied]
 

 

 

	Thus,
it is clear that the decision taken by the authorized officer on
provisional attachment under Section 5(1) and confirmation of such
provisional attachment under Section 8(3) later on by adjudicatory
authority upon receiving complaint under Section 5(5) of the Act, it
cannot be said that the authority had no reason to believe on the
basis of possession of material on record and presumption is about
interconnectivity of transaction as laid under section 23 of the Act
and admittedly petitioner has approached the appellate authority. 9. The
Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 is enacted to prevent
money-laundering and to provide for confiscation of property derived
from, or involved in, money-laundering and for matters connected
therewith or incidental thereto. That illegal activities of money
laundering posed a serious threat not only to the financial systems
of the country, but also to their integrity and sovereignty, and
therefore, international communities, including the United Nations on
different conventions recognized concerted efforts of all member
countries to strictly deal with the evil of money-laundering. The
details about the initiative taken by the international community to
obviate such threat are outlined in statement of objects and
reasons. The Indian Parliament taking into consideration all the
above, enacted this Act. 9.1 Section
2 of the act defines about definitions. The relevant definitions of Section 2 are reproduced as under: includes- [i]	an individual,
 

	
 

	[ii]	a Hindu
undivided family,
 

	
 

	[iii]	a company,
 

	
 

	[iv]	a firm,
 

	
 

	[v]	an association
of persons or a body of individuals, whether 	incorporated or not,
 

	
 

	[vi]	every
artificial juridical person not falling within any of the 	preceding
sub- clauses, and
 

	
 

	[vii]	any agency,
office or branch owned or controlled by any of 	the above persons
mentioned in the preceding sub- clauses; [t]	"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act; [u]	"proceeds
of crime" means any property or assets of every description, whether corporeal
or incorporeal, movable or immovable, tangible or intangible and
includes deeds and instruments evidencing title to, or interest in,
such property or assets, wherever located; [w]	"records" include the records maintained in the form of books or stored in a
computer or such other form as may be prescribed; [x]	"Schedule" means the Schedule to this Act; [y]	"scheduled
offence" includes sale, purchase, mortgage, pledge, gift, loan or any other
form of transfer of right, title, possession or lien; [zb]	"value" means the fair market value of any property on the date of its
acquisition by any person, or if such date cannot be determined, the
date on which such property is possessed by such person. Section 3.	Offence
of money- laundering - Whosoever directly or indirectly attempts to indulge or knowingly
assists or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in any
process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime and
projecting it as untainted property shall be guilty of offence of
money- laundering. Section 4.	Punishment
for money- laundering.- Whoever commits the offence of money- laundering shall be punishable
with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than
three years but which may extend to seven years and shall also be
liable to fine which may extend to five lakh rupees: 5.	Attachment
of property involved in money- laundering.- [1]	Where the
Director, or any other officer not below the rank of Deputy Director
authorised by him for the purposes of this section, has reason to
believe (the reason for such belief to be recorded in writing), on
the basis of material in his possession, that- [a]	any person is in
possession of any proceeds of crime; [b]	such person has
been charged of having committed a scheduled offence; and
 

 

 

[c]	such proceeds of
crime are likely to be concealed, transferred or dealt with in any
manner which may result in frustrating any proceedings relating to
confiscation of such proceeds of crime under this Chapter, he may, by
order in writing, provisionally attach such property for a period not
exceeding ninety days from the date of the order, in the manner
provided in the Second Schedule to the Income- tax Act, 1961 (43 of
1961 ) and the Director or the other office so authorised by him, as
the case may be, shall be deemed to be an officer under sub-rule (e)
of rule 1 of that Schedule: 6 deals with adjudicating authorities, composition, powers, etc. 

 

 

 

Section 8.	Adjudication.- [1]	On receipt of a complaint under sub- section (5) of section 5 , or
applications made under sub- section (4) of section 17 or under sub-
section (10) of section 18 , if the Adjudicating Authority has reason
to believe that any person has committed an offence under section 3 ,
it may serve a notice of not less than thirty days on such person
calling upon him to indicate the sources of his income, earning or
assets, out of which or by means of which he has acquired the
property attached under sub- section (1) of section 5 , or, seized
under section 17 or section 18 , the evidence on which he relies and
other relevant information and particulars, and to show cause why all
or any of such properties should not be declared to be the properties
involved in money- laundering and confiscated by the Central
Government: 9 empowers vesting of property in Central Government. Section 23.	Presumption
in inter- connected transactions.- Where money- laundering involves two or more inter- connected
transactions and one or more such transactions is or are proved to be
involved in money- laundering, then for the purposes of adjudication
or confiscation under section 8 , it shall, unless otherwise proved to
the satisfaction of the Adjudicating Authority, be presumed that the
remaining transactions form part of such inter- connected
transactions. Section 24.	Burden
of proof.- When a person is accused of having committed the offence under section 3 , the burden of proving that proceeds of crime are untainted
property shall be on the accused. Chapter
VI is about the Appellate Tribunal. Section 25.	Establishment
of Appellate Tribunal.- The Central Government shall, by notification, establish an Appellate
Tribunal to hear appeals against the orders of the Adjudicating
Authority and the authorities under this Act. Section 26.	Appeal
to Appellate Tribunal.- [1]	Save as otherwise provided in sub- section (3), the Director or
any person aggrieved by an order made by the Adjudicating Authority
under this Act, may prefer an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal. [2]	Any banking
company, financial institution or intermediary aggrieved by any order
of the Director made under sub- section (2) of section 13 , may prefer
an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal. [3]	Every appeal
preferred under sub- section (1) or sub- section (2) shall be filed
within a period of forty- five days from the date on which a copy of
the order made by the Adjudicating Authority or Director is received
and it shall be in such form and e accompanied by such fee as may be
prescribed: Provided that the Appellate Tribunal may, after giving an
opportunity of being heard, entertain an appeal after the expiry of
the said period of forty- five days if it is satisfied that there was
sufficient cause for not filing it within that period. [4]	On receipt of an
appeal under sub- section (1) or sub- section (2), the Appellate
Tribunal may, after giving the parties to the appeal an opportunity
of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit,
confirming, modifying or setting aside the order appealed against. [5]	The Appellate
Tribunal shall send a copy of every order made by it to the parties
to the appeal and to the concerned Adjudicating Authority or the
Director, as the case may be. [6]	The appeal filed
before the Appellate Tribunal under sub- section (1) or sub- section
(2) shall be dealt with by it as expeditiously as possible and
endeavour shall be made by it to dispose of the appeal finally within
six months from the date of filing of the appeal. Section 35 provides
Procedure and powers of Appellate Tribunal and Section 38 provides
Decision to be by majority and section 41 is about Civil court not to
have jurisdiction. Section 42.	Appeal
to High Court.- Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Appellate
Tribunal may file an appeal to the High Court within sixty days from
the date of communication of the decision or order of the Appellate
Tribunal to him on any question of law or fact arising out of such
order: whosoever directly or indirectly attempts to indulge or knowingly
assists or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in any
process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime and
projected it as untainted property shall be guilty of offence of
money laundering. Section 4 provides punishment for
money-laundering. Therefore, when authority empowered under the Act
proceeds for attachment, adjudication and confiscation under Chapter
III it has dual purpose as emerges from the sections. For exercising
powers under Section 5(1) [a][b][c] for provisional attachment of the
property allegedly derived or obtained from proceeds of crime, on the
basis of material in his possession, authorized officer should have
reason to believe and reasons for such belief to be recorded in the
order about [a]any person is in possession of any proceeds of crime;
[b] such person has been charged of having committed a scheduled
offence; and [c]	such proceeds of crime are likely to be concealed,
transferred or dealt with in any manner which may result in
frustrating any proceeds relating to confiscation of such proceeds of
crime under Chapter III and by passing an order in writing such
property can be provisionally attached for a period not exceeding for
150 days from the date of the order in the manner provided in the Second Schedule to the Income-tax Act, 1961 . The above exercise does
not envisage either issuance of show cause notice or hearing. It
also provides necessity of filing a report under Section 173 before
concerned Magistrate for the schedule offence before passing an order
of attachment for a complaint by an authorised person to investigate
such offences mentioned in the schedule before the Court for taking
cognizance of such offence. That second un-numbered proviso also
empowers an authorized officer to exercise the power, notwithstanding
anything contained in clause [b] of subsection [1] of section 5 upon
his satisfaction on the basis of material in his possession and has
reason to believe that such property is likely to frustrated any
proceedings of the Act, if it is not attached immediately. Under
sub-section (5) of Section 5 of the Act a duty is cast upon the
authorized officer who provisionally attaches any property in
sub-section (1) shall have to file a complaint within a period of 30
days from such an attachment before the adjudicating authority. Thus,
a detailed mechanism is provided for exercising powers by an
authorized officer to attach such property involving money-laundering
after following procedure laid down in Section 5 as stated . That Section 8 provides for adjudication and subsection [1] provides that
on receipt of a complaint under sub-section [5] of section 5 , or
application made under sub-section [4] of section 17 or under
sub-section [10] of section 18 , if the Adjudicating Authority has
committed offence under Section 3 or is in possession of proceeds of
crime and to call upon such a person to communicate sources of his
income, earning or assets out of which or by means of which he has
acquired the property attached under Section 5(1) or, seized under section 17 or section 18 , attached in exercise of powers. 
Sub-section [2] of Section 8 provides that the Adjudicating Authority
after issuing notice and affording opportunity of hearing to such
person or any other person connected within such property and after
considering reply and hearing the aggrieved person and taking into
consideration all the relevant material placed on record to pass an
order and record a finding that properties referred to in the notice
issued under Section [1] of Section 8 is involved in money-laundering
as required under section 8(2)(c) of the Act. However, sub-section
(3) of section 8 also empowers the adjudicating authority to pass a
further order about confirmation of attached property or record
seized shall continue during period of pendency of proceedings
relating to any scheduled offence before a court and such order
becomes final only after the guilt of such person is proved and such
order of the court attains finality. The order of confiscation is to
be passed after hearing the person concerned as provided under
sub-section [6] of Section 8 . Section 23 deals with presumption in
inter-connected transactions and unless otherwise proved to the
satisfaction of the adjudicating authority, it is to be presumed that
remaining transactions from part of such interconnected transactions
involving money laundering and section 24 places burden of proof upon
the accused on having committed the offences under Section 3 of
proving the proceeds of crime are untainted property. Thus, the
authorities under the Act have privilege of presumption about
obtaining or derived proceeds of crime in the case of interconnected
transactions. 9.6		That
Chapter VI provides for appellate mechanism and section 25 is about
establishment of appellate tribunal and procedure is provided under Section 26 about filing of appeal to appellate tribunal either by an
authorised person or any person aggrieved by an order made by the
adjudicating authority under the Act. That further provisions is of
appeal to move High Court within 60 days against any decision or
order passed by the appellate tribunal by any person aggrieved by
such order within 60 days from the communication of the order. That
Chapter VII is about special courts, their establishment, procedure
to be followed and Chapter VIII is about authority mentioned therein
and their jurisdiction etc. The above facts reveal procedure to be
followed by the authorized officer or provisional attachment under section 5 and confirmation of such attachment by adjudicating
authority including passing of an order of confiscation by
adjudicating authority under Section 8 . 10.		Upon
threadbare analysis and consideration of contentions of law viz.
jurisdiction and powers under Sections 5 and 8 of the PML Act,
violation of rights of the petitioners under Articles 14 , 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India, inapplicability of provisions of penal
nature with retrospective effect in the facts and circumstances of
the case and absence
of any ingredients to bring the alleged transaction about subject
property within the definition of `criminal proceeds', `property' and
`value of the property', etc. a complete answer is given by a
Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of B.Rama
Raju [supra] whereby such contentions are negated by holding as under: The provisions adverted to by the petitioners read: Knowledge,
	intent or purpose required as an element of an offence set forth in
	Paragraph I of this article may be inferred from objective factual
	circumstances. Learned
Counsel Sri. Rajeev Awasthi, referred to the General Assembly
resolution 55/25, dated 15-11-2000, the United Nations Convention
against Transnational Organized Crime.  The purport of the
Convention is to promote cooperation to prevent and combat
Transnational Organised Crime more effectively.  The Convention
is aimed to integrate international cooperation inter alia for
seizure and confiscation of proceeds of crime derived from predicate
offences covered by the Convention or property the value of which
corresponds to that of such proceeds; and property, equipment or
other instrumentalities used in or destined for use in offences
covered by the Convention.  The scope of application of this
Convention is to prevent, investigate and prosecute specified
offences and other serious crime, where the offence is transnational
in nature and involves an organised criminal group.  Suffice it
to notice for the purposes of this lis that while detailing measures
to be adopted by State Parties for seizure and confiscation of
proceeds of crime, it is indicated that State may consider the
possibility of requiring that an offender demonstrate the lawful
origin of the alleged proceeds of crime or other property liable to
confiscation, to the extent the requirement is consistent with the
principle of their Domestic law and with the nature of judicial and
other proceedings.  It also provided that provisions for seizure
and confiscation should not be construed to prejudice the rights of a
bonafide third parties [ Art.12- Clauses 7, 8]. Sri.Gopal
Chowdury has also contended, by reference to provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 that mens rea or
some measure of an informed association with an offence is the sine
qua non to constitute illegally acquired property under the NDPS Act . We
are required, in the context of the rival contentions in these writ
petitions to interpret the Act in accordance with established and
applicable principles of statutory interpretation.  The unit of
interpretation is the Act as a whole and such of those provisions
which are considered for interpretation but in the context of the
provisions of Act.  While the preamble to the Act refers to the
U.N.General Assembly resolution S-17/2, dated 23-02-1990;  and
the political declaration adopted by the Special Session of the U.N.
General Assembly held on 8th 
to 10th 
June, 1998; these are among the reasons for the legislation and the
contents of those resolutions or declarations are not to be
considered while interpreting provisions of a domestic law such as
the Act unless there is an ambiguity in any provision necessitating
reference to extra textual sources for guidance.  The well
established principle is that the words of a statute, passed after
the date of a treaty and dealing with the same subject matter, are to
be construed, if they are reasonably capable of bearing such a
meaning, as intended to carry out the treaty obligation and not to be
inconsistent with it Garland
Vs. British Rail Engineering Ltd. [1]; A[FC] and others [FC] Vs.
Secretary of State for the Home Department [2].
 This principle is reiterated in
our jurisdiction as well. In Visaka
Vs. State of Rajasthan [3]
the Supreme Court explained that is now an accepted rule of judicial
construction that regard must be had to international conventions and
norms for construing domestic law when there is no inconsistency
between them and there is a void in the domestic law.  While
International Treaties, Conventions, Protocols or other instruments
may catalyze domestic Legislation, these are not to be construed as
the authority for Legislation.  The Power to Legislate in India
is derived from the grant of Legislative Power qua the provisions of
the Constitution and the limits upon the legislative powers
enumerated in the provisions of the Constitution including the
authorised and enumerated fields of legislation in Lists 1, 2 and 3
of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. The learned Counsel for
the petitioners are not heard to contend that the provisions of the
Act are ultra vires international treaties, conventions; the FATF
Standards etc. The contours of the powers of Parliament to make
any law for the whole or any part of the territory of India for
implementation of any treaty, agreement, convention or any decision
made at any international conference, association or body is well
established to justify the customary parade of familiar scholarship
and a catena of precedent see Maganbhai
Vs. Union of India [4]; S.Jagannath Vs. Union of India [5]; Nilabeti
Behera Vs. State of Orissa [6]; and Appeal
Export Promotion Council Vs. A.K.Chopra [7].
 We therefore proceed to interpret the provisions of the Act within
the within the frame work of its provisions, tested on the anvil of
the limits on legislative powers enjoined by the provisions of our
Constitution; for we are not persuaded that there is any ambiguity
that legitimizes a resort to trans-legislation sources for guidance. We
had benefit of perusing the judgment by a learned Division Bench of
the Bombay High Court, dated 05-8-2010 in first appeal Nos.527 to 529
of 2010 [per A.M. Khanwilkar, J] The very question as to whether the
provisions in the Act are applicable for attachment and confiscation
of property belonging to persons other than those charged and
prosecuted of having committed a scheduled offence fell for
consideration in this judgment.  The appeals (to the Bombay High
Court) were preferred [under Sec.42 of the Act] against the judgment
and order of the Appellate Tribunal rejecting a challenge to orders
of the Adjudicating Authority confirming orders of provisional
attachment.  It however requires to be noted that the decision
was delivered in the context of the provisions of Sec.5 of the Act
prior to its amendment by the 2nd Amendment Act, 2009 i.e., prior to the introduction
of the second proviso to Sec.5 (1) of the Act.   On an
interactive interpretation of the several provisions of the Act
including definition of the expressions Person ; Proceeds
of Crime ; Property ; and Transfer ; and the provisions
of Sec.5 and 8 , the Bombay judgment concluded that attachment of
proceeds of crime in possession of any person [other than the person
charged of having committed a scheduled offence] will fall within the
sweep of Sec.5 of the Act. The
petitioners contend that the conclusion in the Bombay judgment [that
the provisions of Sec.5 of the Act (prior to its Amendment by the 2nd
Amendment Act) would equally apply to property belonging to a person
other than one charged of an offence under Sec.3 of the Act], is
erroneous, inconsistent with the clear phraseology of Sec.5 (1)(b) of
the Act and ought not to be followed.  It is contended that
Clause-b of Sec.5(1) of the Act clearly delineates the legislative
intent that attachment, adjudication and confiscation proceedings are
to be initiated  only against such person  who having been
charged of having committed a scheduled offence is in possession of
proceeds of any crime, which are likely to be concealed, transferred
or dealt with etc.  Per contra, Sri.Rajeev Awasthi for the
respondents contends that the Bombay decision correctly interprets
the text and purposes of the provisions of the Act including Sec.5 thereof.   In any event Sri.Rajeev contends, a review of
the vitality of the Bombay decision in the context of the provisions
of Sec.5 (1) (a) to (c) is not called for in view of the legislative
dynamics.  The contention in this behalf is that the second
proviso to Sec.5 (1) of the Act (vide the 2nd Amendment Act, 2009 ) removes any ambiguity in the trajectory of the
provisions of Sec.5 (1) and that the second proviso [fortified by a
non obstante provision qua clause (b) of Sec.5(1) ] clearly expresses
the legislative intent beyond a scintilla of doubt. While
it may perhaps be contended that the provisions of Sec.5(1) [prior to
the second proviso] exclude from the domain of the Act, attachment
and confiscation of property in the possession of a person not
charged of having committed a scheduled offence, this contention in
our considered view is wholly misconceived after enactment of the
second proviso.  The second proviso enjoins that any property of
any person may be attached if the specified authority therein has
reason to believe -----.  The non obstante clause in the second
proviso clearly excludes clause (b) of Sec 5(1).  It is this
clause [b] that incorporates the requirement that the proceeds of
crime
should be in possession of a person who is charged of having
committed a scheduled offence, for initiating proceedings for
attachment and confiscation.  If
the provisions of the Sec.5(1)(b) are to be eschewed for ascertaining
the meaning of the second proviso [qua the legislative injunct of the
non obstante provision], on a true and fair construction of the
provisions of Sec.5(1) including the second proviso thereof but
ignoring clause (b), the Legislative intent is clear, unambiguous and
linear.  Provided the other conditions set out in Sec. 5 of the
Act are satisfied, any property of any person (the expression person
 , is not restrictively defined in Sec.2 (s) limited to a person
charged of having committed a scheduled offence), could be proceeded
against for attachment, adjudication and confiscation.  We are
persuaded to the view that incorporation of the 2nd
proviso Sec.5 (1) is intended to clarify the position or remove any
ambiguity as to the application of Sec.5 (1) to property of a person
not charged of having committed a scheduled offence. The
petitioners further contend (as an aspect of this issue) that if
attachment and confiscation proceedings are held to be permissible
against property in possession of a person not charged with having
committed a scheduled offence, provisions of the Act which enable
such proceedings would be invalid as violative of Article 14 , 21 and 300-A of the Constitution.    In support of this
contention Learned Counsel for the petitioner, in particular,
Mr.Gopal Chowdury place for our consideration several illustrations
of the grave consequences that would follow. [emphasis
1(a) supplied]
 

 
 

 

Inter
alia it was suggested that attachment and confiscation proceedings
could be initiated for instance against a shareholder of a Company
who receives higher dividend or higher value on the sale of shares of
such company, where the company makes and declares substantial
profits by evading customs duties or the like.  Would the higher
dividends received by the shareholder or the gains made by selling
his shares in the company at higher price relatable to the illegal
activity of the Company, of which illegality he was clearly not
aware, be liable to attachment and confiscation, query the
petitioners.  In response, Sri.Rajeev Awasthi for the respondent
has stated that as a policy the Enforcement Officials are not
proceeding against properties, under the Act, unless satisfied that
the property is proceeds of the crime; is in possession of a person
who is either accused/charged of a scheduled offence or has knowledge
of the property being the proceeds of crime. In
our considered view the petitioners contention proceeds on a
misconception of the relevant provisions of the Act.  Against
transactions constituting money-laundering, the provisions of the Act
contemplate two sets of proceedings; (a) prosecution for the offence
of money-laundering defined in Sec.3 with the punishment provided in Sec.4 ; and (b) attachment, adjudication and confiscation in the
sequential steps and subject to the conditions and procedures
enumerated in Chapter III of the Act . Sec.2 (p) defines the
expression money-laundering as ascribed in Sec.3 . Sec.3 defines the offence of Money-Laundering in an expansive locus
as comprehending direct or indirect attempt to indulge; assist, be a
party to or actually involved knowingly in any process or activity
connected with the proceeds of the crime and projecting it as
untainted property.   On proof of guilt and conviction of
the offence of Money-Laundering, the punishment provided in Sec.4 of
the Act would follow after a due trial by the Special Court; which is
conferred exclusive jurisdiction qua Section 44, Chapter VII of the
Act.  The prosecution, trial and conviction for the offence of
Money-laundering are the criminal sanction administered by the
Legislation and effectuated by a deprivation of personal liberty as a
disincentive to a malfeasant.  The second matrix of proceedings
targets the proceeds of crime defined in Sec.2 (u) ; as any
property derived or obtained, directly or indirectly, by any person
as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence or
the value of any such property, for initial attachment and eventual
confiscation. [emphasis
1(b) supplied] Chapter
III of the Act enables the specified authority, if he has reasons to
believe [the reasons to be recorded in writing], on the basis of
material in possession of the authority that any person charged of
having committed a scheduled offence [ Sec.5(1)(b) ] or even if not so
charged [second proviso to Sec.5(1) ] is in possession of proceeds of
crime and such proceeds are likely to be concealed, transferred etc.,
in a manner as may frustrate any proceedings relating to confiscation
of such proceeds of crime under Chapter III, to provisionally attach
[Sec5(1)]; confirm an order of provisional attachment  after a
process of adjudication [ Sec.8 (3) ]; and eventually pass an order
confiscating such property [ Sec.8(6) ]. On
the afore-stated scheme the provisions of the Act, the prosecution
under the Act; and attachment and eventual confiscation proceedings
are distinct proceedings.  These
two sets of proceedings may be initiated against the same person if
he is accused of the offence of money-laundering.  Even when a
person is not so accused, the property in his possession may be
proceeded against for attachment and confiscation, on a satisfaction
by the appropriate and competent authority that such property
constitutes proceeds of crime. In
our considered view, the provisions of the Act which clearly and
unambiguously enable initiation of proceedings for attachment and
eventual confiscation of property in possession of a person not
accused of having committed an offence under Section 3 as well, do
not violate the provisions of the Constitution including Articles 14 ,
21 and 300-A and are operative proprio vigore. [emphasis
1(c) supplied]
 

 
 

 

While
the offence of money-laundering comprises various degrees of
association and activity with knowledge and information connected
with the proceeds of crime and projection of the same as untainted
property; for the purposes of attachment and confiscation (imposition
of civil and economic and not penal sanctions) neither mens rea nor
knowledge that a property has a lineage of criminality is either
constitutionally necessary or statutorily enjoined.  Proceeds
of crime [as defined in Section 2 (u) ] is property derived or
obtained directly or indirectly as a result of criminal activity
relating to a scheduled offence or the value of any such property. 
 Property is defined in Section 2 (v) to include property of
every description corporeal, incorporeal, movable, immovable,
tangible, and intangible and includes deeds and instruments
evidencing title to or interest in such property or assets wherever
located. The
matrix of the relevant provisions of the Act compel the inference
that the legislation subsumes that property which satisfies
the definition of proceeds of crime , prima facie is considered
as property whose transfer [defined in Section 2(za) ] is subject to
verification to consider whether the transfer is a stratagem of a
money laundering operation and is part of a layering transaction. 
As the provisions of the Act target malfeasants charged of an offence
under Section 3 and the proceeds of crime in the possession of a
person so charged and any other person as well, the legislative
intent is manifest that attachment and confiscation constitute a
critical and clearly intended and specifically enacted strategy to
combat the evil of money-laundering.  A person though not
accused/charged of an offence under Section 3 , when in possession of
any proceeds of crime, from the provisions of the Act it is clear,
has but a defeasible and not a clear title thereto.  In the
context of attachment and confiscation proceedings, knowledge that a
property is proceeds of crime is not legislatively prescribed. [emphasis
1(d) supplied]
 

 
 

 

Proceeds
of crime is defined to include not merely property derived or
obtained as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled
offence but
the value of any such property as well.  The bogey of
apprehensions propounded on behalf of the petitioners is that where
proceeds of crime are sequentially transferred through several
transactions, in favour of a series of individuals having no
knowledge or information as to the criminality antecedent to the
property; the authorities may proceed against each and all of such
sequential transactions, thus bringing within the vortex of Chapter-III of the Act , all the properties involved
in several transactions. [emphasis
1(e) supplied] Section
8(1) clearly postulates affording of an opportunity to a person in
possession of proceeds of crime to indicate the sources of his
income, earnings or assets; out of which or by means of which he has
acquired the property attached, under Section 5(1) or seized under Sections 17 or 18 the evidence on which he relies and other relevant
information and particulars.  It is therefore clear that where a
property is provisionally attached under Section 5 , the person in
possession of such property may avail the opportunity under Section 8 to indicate/establish that he has acquired the property attached
(prima facie the proceeds of crime) out of his lawful earnings or
assets, that he has the means to do so, and that his acquisition is
therefore legitimate, bona fide and at fair market value of such
property; and that the value paid for acquisition of the property and
not the property in his possession that constitutes proceeds of
crime, if at all.  On such showing, to the satisfaction of the
adjudicating authority, it would perhaps be not the property in
possession of a person but the fair value for which he has acquired
the property and paid to the transferor that constitutes proceeds of
crime and the authorities may have to proceed against the property or
value in the hands of the transferor. In
the illustration proffered on behalf of the petitioners; since the
dividend, the higher dividend or the value of the shares sold would
be relatable to illegal conduct of a company or its officers (if such
illegality is a scheduled offence and the company or a person in
management or control of the company is accused of an offence under Section 3 ) and would be proceeds of crime, so much of the quantum of
the dividend received or the value of a share sold as constitutes
proceeds of crime could be liable to attachment and confiscation. 
This in our considered view is the true and fair construction of the
provisions of the Act.  At this stage of the proceedings we
cannot be oblivious of the fact that the petitioners and others,
whose assets are being subjected to the processes under Chapter III
of the Act , are alleged to be closely related to or employees of the
individual(s) who orchestrated the massive scam and that these
persons had traded in the shares of SCSL (with a presumptive insider
information) when those shares had a peak value, achieved on account
of the criminal conduct of Sri Ramalinga Raju, and others. The
contention by the petitioners that attachment and confiscation of
proceeds of crime in possession of a person who is not charged of an
offence under Section 3 or who has no knowledge or information as to
the antecedent criminality are arbitrary and unfair legislative
prescriptions is misconceived. [emphasis
1(f) supplied]
 

 
 

 

Section
24 inheres on a person accused/charged of having committed an offence
under Section 3 , the burden of proving that proceeds of crime are
untainted property. Section 23 of the Act enjoins a presumption
in inter-connected transactions that where money-laundering involves
two or more inter-connected transactions and one or more of such
transactions is or are proved to be involving in money-laundering,
then for the purposes of adjudication or confiscation under
Chapter-III, the Act enjoins a rebuttable presumption that the
remaining transactions form part of such interconnected
transactions. From
the scheme of the provisions of the Act, it is apparent that, a
person accused of an offence under Section 3 of the Act whose
property is attached and proceeded against for confiscation must
advisedly indicate the sources of his income, earnings or assets, out
of which or means by which he has acquired the property attached, to
discharge the burden (Section 24) that the property does not
constitute proceeds of crime. Where
a transaction of acquisition of property is part of inter-connected
transactions, the onus of establishing that the property acquired is
not connected to the activity of money-laundering, is on the person
in ownership, control or possession of the property, though not
accused of a Section 3 offence, provided one or more of the
interconnected transactions is or are proved to be involved in
money-laundering ( Section 23 ). [emphasis
1(g) supplied]
 

 
 

 

It
further requires to be noticed that not only from the second proviso
to Section 9 of the Act but on general principles of law as well, a
person deprived of the property in his ownership, control or
possession on account of confiscation proceedings under the Act, has
a right of action against the transferor of such property to recover
the value of the property. In
the context of the fact that money-laundering is perceived as a
serious threat to financial systems of countries across the globe and
to their integrity and sovereignty as well; in view of the fact that
targeting the proceeds of crime and providing for attachment and
confiscation of the proceeds of crime is conceived to be the
appropriate legislative strategy; and given the several safeguards
procedural and substantive alluded to hereinbefore, we are not
persuaded to the view that attachment and confiscation of property
constituting proceeds of crime in the possession of a person not
accused/charged of an offence under Section 3 constitutes an
arbitrary or unconstitutional legislative prescription. The
contention that the definition of proceeds of crime [ Section
2(u) ] is too broad and is therefore arbitrary and invalid since it
subjects even property acquired, derived or in the possession of a
person not accused, connected or associated in any manner with a
crime and thus places innocent persons in jeopardy, is a contention
that also does not merit acceptance. In
Attorney
General for India and others Vs. Amratlal Prajivandas and others ,
a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court considered the validity of
provisions of the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators
(Forfeiture of Property) Act, 1976 (SAFEMA) and answered that
clauses [c] and clause [d] of Section 2 [2] is time... in the context
of object and reasons of SAFEMA. [emphasis
1(h) supplied]
 

 
 

 

 ISSUE-B
 

	The
Bombay High Court in the Judgement dt. 5.8.2010 (in First Appeal Nos.
527 to 529 of 2010) has interpreted the provisions of Section 5 (1) of the Act even prior to incorporation of the Second proviso by the Second Amendment Act, 2009 ) as enabling initiation of proceedings for
attachment and confiscation of property in possession of a person not
accused/charged of an offence under Section 3 as well.  The
Second Amendment Act in so far as it has incorporated the second
proviso to Section 5(1) , it is contended on behalf of the respondents
is by way of clarification and emphasis as to the true import and
trajectory of Section 5(1) .  Be that as it may. [emphasis
(2) supplied]
 

  

 

	The
process of adjudication under Section 8 of the Act is in respect of
property attached under Section 5 (1) ; proceeds of crime involved in
money-laundering in possession of any person searched and seized
under Section 17 and in respect of which the appropriate authority
has filed an application to the adjudicating authority for retention
of such property under Section 17(4) ; and proceeds of crime seized
from the possession, ownership or control of any person under Section
18(1) and in respect of which an application is filed under
Sub- section 10 of Section 18 to the adjudicating authority,
requesting for retention of such property.  The common objective
of Sections 5 , 8 , 17 and 18 is provisional attachment, confirmation
of attachment and confiscation of property constituting proceeds of
crime.  While there was perhaps an ambiguity on the issue
whether the process of provisional attachment under Section 5 and
confirmation of such provisional attachment under Section 8(3) could
lie against property in possession of a person other than one
accused/charged of having committed an offence under Section 3 [this
ambiguity has since been resolved by the provisions of the Second
Amendment Act incorporating appropriate amendments by way of the
second Proviso to Section 5(1) and addition of the clause or is in
possession of proceeds of crime in Section 8(1) ], there was no
ambiguity that the process of adjudication under Section 8 is
available against all proceeds of crime whether in possession of a
person accused/charged of an offence under Section 3 or otherwise, in
view of the adjudication process applying to property seized under Sections 17 and 18 of the Act.  Neither the provisions of Sections 17 nor 18 require for search and seizure operations that the
proceeds of crime involved in money-laundering should be in
possession only of a person accused/charged of an offence under Section 3 .  The provisions of Clause (ii) of Section 17(1) clearly (by employing the disjunctive or ) stipulate that search
and seizure operations may proceed not only against a person who has
committed an act which constitutes money-laundering but also against
a person in possession of any proceeds of crime involved in
money-laundering or in possession of records relating to 
money-laundering.  On search of any person or seizure of such
record or property constituting proceeds of crime in the possession,
ownership or control of any person, which may be useful or relevant
to any proceedings under the Act, a property, which constitutes
proceeds of crime seized under Section 17 or 18, is equally subject
to the adjudicatory processes under Section 8 . On
analysis of the provisions of Section 5 , 8 , 17 and 18 , it is clear
that provisions of the Second Amendment Act have carefully ironed out
the creases and the latent rucks in the texture of the provisions of
the Act relating to attachment, adjudication and confiscation in
Chapter-III.  Attachment or confiscation of proceeds of crime in
the possession of a person who is not accused or charged of an
offence under Section 3 is thus not an incorporation for the first
time by the provisions of the Second Amendment Act, 2009 .  The
contention on behalf of the petitioners that the second proviso to Section 5(1) of the Act, applies only to property acquired/possessed
prior to enforcement
of this provision or if interpreted as being retrospective, the
provision itself must be invalidated for arbitrary retrospective
operation is therefore without substance or force. [emphasis
2(a) supplied]
 

 
 

 

The
above contention does not merit acceptance even otherwise. Article 20 of the Constitution enacts an injunction only in respect
of ex post facto laws resulting in conviction for offences or
imposition of penalties greater than which might have been inflicted
under the law enforceable at the time of commission of the offence. 
No
provision of the Constitution has been brought to our notice which
prohibits a legislative measure which targets for attachment and
confiscation proceeds of crime.  On the text and authority of
our Constitution while it may perhaps gainfully be contended that
conviction for the offence of money-laundering cannot be recorded if
the said offence is committed prior to the enforcement of Section 3 of the Act, such a contention cannot be advanced to target
proceedings for attachment and confiscation, as these fall outside
the pale of the prohibitions of the Constitution, in particular Article 20(1). To
support the empirical contention that attachment and confiscation of
property is a process that is grave in itself; has serious economic
consequences for the person in the ownership, control or possession
of such property and must be given the same exalted status as
deprivation of personal liberty, for the purposes of applying the
constitutional prohibition of ex post-facto laws,
Sri Choudary & Niranjan Reddy rely on the observations in the
majority opinions of the Constitution Bench in M/s. Khemka & Co. [Agencies] Pvt. Ltd. Vs. State of Maharashtra .
 The leading opinion of the majority was delivered by Ray C.J. (for
himself and Khanna J); Beg J concurred, while Mathew and Chandrachud
J (per Mathew J) recorded a dissenting opinion.  The question
involved was whether the assessees under the Central Sales Tax Act,
1956 (the Central Act ) could be made liable for penalty under
the provisions of the State Sales Tax Act (the State Act) for default
of payment of the tax liability under the Central Act.  The
assessees contended that there being no provision in the Central Act
for imposition of penalty or default in payment of tax, imposition of
penalty under the provisions of the State Act is illegal.  In
defence, the Revenue contended that the provision of penalty for
default of payment of tax as
enacted in the State Act is equally applicable to the payment and
collection of the tax under the Central Act and is incidental to and
part of the process of such payment and collection.  Ray, C.J.
held that the provisions of the State Act imposing penalty for
non-payment of the tax under the Central Act within the prescribed
time is not attracted to impose penalty on dealers under the Central
Act.  The Central Act is a self-contained code which by the
charging section creates liability for tax and penalty and Section
9(2) of the Central Act creates the State authorities as agencies to
carry out the assessment, re-assessment, collection and enforcement
of tax and penalty payable by a dealer under the Central Act. 
In his concurring majority opinion Beg, J held that the imposition of
a pecuniary liability, which takes the form of a penalty or fine for
a breach of a legal obligation, cannot be relegated to the routine of
mere procedure and machinery for the realisation of tax.  It is
more than that.  Such liabilities must be curbed by clear,
unambiguous and express enactment.  The language used should
leave no serious doubts about its effect so that the persons who are
to be subjected to such liability for the infringement of law are not
left in a state of uncertainty as to what their duties are
liabilities are.  This is also implied in the constitutional
mandate in Article 265: No tax shall be levied or collected except by
authority of law . [emphasis
2(b) supplied]
 

 
 

 

	The
majority opinion in Khemka & Co. is only a reiteration and
application of the well-accepted void for vagueness principle
which applies to invalidate irredeemably ambiguous statutory
provisions.  The observations in the majority opinions are not
to be considered as encompassing legislative sanctions which do not
effect personal liberties within the constitutional prohibition of ex
post-facto laws enjoined by Art.20(2) of the Constitution.  The
Khemka  majority opinion, in our carefully considered view, only
means that no regulation of conduct; imposition of person s civil,
economic rights or of personal liberty or regulation of freedoms,
natural or guaranteed by constitutionally entrenched rights, may be
brought about by overly vague and unspecific legislative
prescriptions; and nothing more. [emphasis
2(c) supplied]
 

 
 

 

	
In Amratlal
Prajivandas (4 supra) the validity of SAFEMA was challenged and upheld by the
Constitution Bench. Section 3(c) of the
legislation defined illegally acquired property as any property
acquired whether before or after the commencement of SAFEMA, wholly
or partly out of or by means of any income, earnings or assets
derived or obtained from or attributable to any activity prohibited
by or under any law which the Parliament has the power to make. 
The challenge to the definition of illegally acquired wealth on
grounds of overbreadth and as an excessive and disproportionate
legislative response to the perceived evil, was repelled. 
Jeevan Reddy. J put it pithily when he observed: Bitter
medicine is not bad medicine. The
huge quanta of illegally acquired wealth; acquired from crime and
economic and corporate malfeasance corrodes the vitals of rule of
law; the fragile patina of integrity of some of our public officials
and State actors; and consequently threatens the sovereignty and
integrity of the Nation.  The Parliament has the authority to
legislate and provide for forfeiture of proceeds of crime which is a
produce of specified criminality acquired prior to the enactment of
the Act as well.  It has also the authority to recognise the
degrees of harm an identified pejorative conduct has on the fabric of
our society and to determine the appropriate remedy for the
pathology. [emphasis
2(d) supplied]
 

 
 

 

ISSUE-B
is answered accordingly. Issues
C & D xxxx
 

 
 

 

 ISSUE-E
 

 
 

 

	The
challenge to Section 23 is projected on the ground that the
presumption enjoined by this provision in respect of inter-connected
transactions is unduly restrictive of the right to property; is a
disproportionate burden, not commensurate with legitimate
Governmental interests in targeting proceeds of crime involved in
money-laundering, for eventual confiscation. [Emphasis
(3) supplied]
 

Money-laundering,
it is pleaded in the counter affidavit by the Enforcement
Directorate, while apparently comprising one or more apparently clear
and simple financial transactions or dealings with property, in
reality involve a complex web of transactions that are processed
through three stages - the placement, layering and integration
stage.  When laundering operations are pursued across State
boundaries, flows of funds would involve several routes.  Since
the object of the Act is to seize or attach proceeds of crime
involved in money-laundering for eventual confiscation to the State,
the enforcement strategy must be commensurate with, correspond to and
complement the degree of camouflage, deceit, layering and integration
normally associated with a money-laundering operation, to be
effective and successful, is the contention on behalf of the
respondents. Section
23 enjoins a presumption in respect of inter-connected transactions. 
Money-laundering is defined in Section 2 (p) (with reference to Section 3 ).  Though Section 3 defines the offence of
money-laundering, the ingredients of the offence enumerated in this
provision define money-laundering in its generic sense as applied by
the Act to attachment and confiscation processes as well. Such
duality is achieved by the drafting technique of defining
money-laundering in Section 2 (p) by ascription of the definition of
the offence of money-laundering in Section 3 . This
technique, though specific, is not unique.  As observed in LIC
of India Vs. Crown Life Insurance Co. ,
the object of a definition clause in a statute is to avoid the
necessity of frequent repetitions in describing all the subject
matter to which the word or expression so defined is intended to
apply.   A definition section may borrow definitions from
an earlier or an existing statute; not necessarily in the definition
section but in some other provision, of that Act; and may equally
borrow the definition from some other section of the same Act where a
word or an expression is defined for a distinct purpose, occasion, or
in a specific context. Section 2(1)(p) , thus, defines the
expression money-laundering by borrowing the definition
expressed in Section 3 , where this expression is defined for the
purpose of delineating the offence.  In Section 2(1)(p) ,
however, the expression money-laundering is defined for the
generic purpose of describing the contours of the conduct; wherever
the expression is employed in the several provisions of the Act,
including in Chapter.III for attachment and confiscation. It is also well settled that the legislature has the power to define
a word or an expression artificially Kishanlal
Vs. State of Rajasthan . The definition of a word or an expression in the definition section
may thus
be restrictive or extensive of its ordinary meaning. When a word is
defined to mean so and so, the definition is prima facie
exhaustive and restrictive Inland
Revenue Commissioner Vs. Joiner; Vanguard
Fire and General Insurance Co. Ltd. Vs. Frazer & Ross ; and Feroze
N. Dotiwala Vs. P.M.Wadhwani . Conduct
of directly or indirectly attempting to indulge, knowingly assist or
being a party to or actual involvement in any process or activity
connected with proceeds of crime and projecting such proceeds of
crime as untainted property, constitutes money-laundering.  The
expression proceeds of crime means property derived or
obtained, directly or indirectly by any person as a result of
criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence or the value of any
such property { Section 2 (u) }.  Thus, a property acquires a
taint on account of being a derivative of criminal activity relating
to a scheduled offence and includes the value of such property. 
Since placement, layering and integration are among the essential
features of money-laundering, the proceeds of crime may not
necessarily continue in the hands of the original malfeasant(s). Where
proceeds of crime are layered through plural transactions, the intent
to camouflage the source of the property as a derivative of
criminality renders it difficult to identify the succeeding
transactions as relatable to the initial proceeds of crime.  It
is for this reason and to effectuate the purposes of the Act that Section 23 incorporates the presumption that where money-laundering
involves two or more connected transactions and one or more such
transactions is/are proved to be involved in money-laundering, then
for the purposes of adjudication or confiscation under Section 8 , it
shall, unless otherwise proved to the satisfaction of the
adjudicating authority, be presumed that the remaining transactions
form part of such interconnected transactions i.e., involved in
money-laundering as well. The
presumption enjoined by Section 23 is clearly a rebuttable
presumption i.e., presumptio pro tantum. [Emphasis
3(a) supplied]
 

In
Izhar
Ahmad v. Union of India,
Gajendragadkar, J. [as his Lordship then was] observed (in the
majority opinion of the Constitution Bench) that: The term
 Presumption in its largest and most
comprehensive signification, may be defined to be an inference,
affirmative or disaffirmative of the truth of false-hood of a
doubtful fact or proposition drawn by a process of probable reasoning
from something proved or taken for granted.  Quoting with
approval the statement of principle set out in the Principles of the
Law of Evidence by Best, his Lordship observed that when the rules of
evidence provide for the raising of a rebuttable or irrebuttable
presumption, they are merely attempting to assist the judicial mind
in the matter of weighing the probative or persuasive force of
certain facts proved in relation to other facts presumed or inferred. Wills
observes that the expression Presumption inherently imports an
act of reasoning ---- a conclusion of the judgment; and it is applied
to denote such facts or moral phenomena, as from experience we know
to be invariably, or commonly, connected with some other related
facts. In
M.
Narsinga Rao v. State of A.P.,
Thomas, J. [writing the opinion for the Court] observed that
presumption is an inference of a certain fact drawn from other proved
facts.  While inferring the existence of a fact from another,
the Court is only applying a process of intelligent reasoning which
the mind of a prudent man would do under similar circumstances.
 Presumption is not the final conclusion to be drawn from other
facts, but it could as well be final, if it remains undisturbed
later.  Presumption in the law of evidence is a rule indicating
the stage of shifting the burden of proof.  From a certain fact
or facts the Court can draw an inference and that would remain until
such inference is either disproved or dispelled. Having
regard to the fact that money-laundering is indulgence, informed
assistance or being a party to or actual involvement in any process
or activity connected with proceeds of crime and projecting it as
untainted property, inherently assuming a degree of deceit and
camouflage in the process of layering the proceeds of crime through a
series of transactions, in the considered legislative wisdom a
presumption in inter-connected transactions is enjoined by Section 23 of the Act, contingent upon one or more of inter-connected
transactions having to be proved to be involved in money-laundering. 
The legislatively enjoined presumption shifts the burden of proof to
the person in the ownership, control or possession of a property
comprising the inter-connected transactions to rebut the statutory
presumption that this property is not involved in money-laundering. Section
23 enacts a rule prescribing a rebuttable presumption and is a rule
of evidence.  The rule purports to regulate and structure the
judicial process of appreciating evidence relating to adjudication of
money-laundering for the purposes of confirmation of
attachment/seizure and confiscation and provides that the said
appreciation will draw an inference from the fact of one or more
transactions forming part of inter-connected transactions having been
proved to be involved in money-laundering, that the other
transactions are also to be presumed so, unless the contrary is
established. [Emphasis
3(b) supplied]
 

 
 

 

As
observed in Izhar
Ahmad (supra), the rule of presumption enjoined by Section 23 takes
away judicial discretion either to attach or not due probative value
to the fact that one or more of the inter-connected transactions have
been proved to be involved money-laundering; and requires prima facie
due probative value to be attached and mandates an inference that the
other transactions form part of the raft of inter-connected
transactions involved in money-laundering, subject of course to the
said presumption being rebutted by proof to the contrary. [Emphasis
3(c) supplied]
 

 
 

 

On
the aforesaid analysis, since Section 23 enjoins a rule of evidence
and a rebuttable presumption considered essential and integral to
effectuation of the purposes of the Act in the legislative wisdom; a
rebuttable and not an irrebuttable presumption, we are not persuaded
to conclude that the provision is unduly harsh, oppressive or
arbitrary.  After-all a legislative remedy must correspond to
the social pathology it professes to regulate. [Emphasis
3(d) supplied]
 

  Issue-E
is answered accordingly. ISSUE-F
 

Section
24 shifts the burden of proving that proceeds of crime are
untainted property onto person(s) accused of having committed the
offence under Section 3 .  This provision is challenged as
arbitrary; is contended to be applicable only to the trial of an
offence under Section 3 and not the proceedings for attachment and
confiscation of property under Chapter-III; and alternatively as not
applicable to proceedings for attachment and confiscation of property
of a person not accused of an offence under Section 3 . [Emphasis
(4) supplied]
 

 
 

 

On
its textual and grammatical construction, the provision shifts the
burden of proving that proceeds of crime are untainted property on
person(s) accused of having committed the offence under Section 3 . We
have noticed while on the analysis of Issues C to E that the
provisions of Sections 3 , 5 , 8 , 17 , 18 , 20, 21 and 23 ; the
definitions of money-laundering { Section 2 (p) ; proceeds of
crime ( Section 2 (u) ; property ( Section 2 (v) and value 
( Section 2 (zb) } are inter-twined, delineate the provisions of each
other and in tandem operate to effectuate one of the two substantial
purposes of the Act viz., attachment for the purposes of eventual
confiscation, of proceeds of crime involved in money-laundering,
whether in the ownership, control or possession of a person accused
of the offence under Section 3 or not. The offence of money-laundering as defined in Section 3 comprises
direct or indirect attempt to indulge, knowingly assist, and
knowingly be a party to or actual involvement in any process or
activity connected with the proceeds of crime and projecting it as
untainted property.  Proceeds of crime is any property 
derived or obtained directly or indirectly by any person as a result
of a criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence or the value
of any such property ( Section 2 (u) .  Qua
the provisions in Chapter-III of the Act , the process of provisional
attachment, confirmation of such attachment by the adjudicating
authority and confiscation of the property attached is operative
against property constituting the proceeds of crime involved in
money-laundering whether in the ownership, control or possession of a
person who has committed an offence under Section 3 or otherwise. Section 8 (1) while enjoining the adjudicating authority to
issue a notice to a person in possession of proceeds of a crime,
whether in his own right or on behalf of any other person, calling
upon
the noticee to indicate the sources of his income, earning or assets
for the purposes of establishing that the acquisition of ownership,
control or possession of the property by the noticee is bona fide and
out of legitimate sources; of his income, earning or assets, does not
enact a presumption that where the noticee is a person accused of the
offence under Section 3 , the provisionally attached property is
proceeds of crime.  Since
camouflage and deceit are strategies inherent and integral to
money-laundering operations and may involve successive transactions
relating to proceeds of crime and intent to project the layered
proceeds as untainted property, effectuation of the legislative
purposes is achieved only where the burden is imposed on the accused
to establish that proceeds of crime are untainted property. This is
the legislative purpose and the justification for Section 24 of the
Act. [Emphasis
4(a) supplied]
 

 
 

 

In
response to a notice issued under Section 8 (1) and qua the
legislative prescription in Section 24 of the Act the person accused
of having committed the offence under Section 3 must show with
supporting evidence and material that he has the requisite means by
way of income, earning or assets, out of which or by means of which
he has acquired the property alleged to be proceeds of crime. 
Only on such showing would the accused be able to rebut the
statutorily enjoined presumption that the alleged proceeds of crime
are untainted property. This being the purpose, we are not satisfied that the provisions of
Section 24 are arbitrary or unconstitutional.  Section 24 is not
confined to the trial of an offence under Section 3 but operates to
attachment and confiscation proceedings under Chapter-III, as well. 
The legislative prescription that the burden of proof inheres on a
person accused of having committed the offence under Section 3 is
only to confine the inherence of the expressed burden to an accused. 
Where the property is in the ownership, control or possession of a
person not accused of having committed an offence under Section 3 and
where such property/proceeds of crime is part of inter-connected
transactions involved in money-laundering, then and in such an event
the presumption enjoined in Section 23 comes into operation and not
the inherence of burden of proof under Section 24.  This is in
our considered view the true and fair construction of the provisions
of Section 24. [emphasis
4(b) supplied]
 

 
 

 

Clearly,
therefore a person other than one accused of having committed the
offence under Section 3 is not imposed the burden of proof enjoined
by Section 24.   On a person accused of an offence under Section 3 however, the burden applies, also for attachment and
confiscation proceedings. [Emphasis
3(c) supplied]
 

 
 

 

Issue
F
is answered accordingly. SUMMARY
OF CONCLUSIONS
: Further, satisfaction of the authority is based on the material on
record about involvement of property / value of the property obtained
or derived from the proceeds of crime galore on the record about
cases instituted by DRI, CBI, Directorate of Enforcement under FERA /
FEMA and under PML Act whereby the authorities exercising powers
under Sections 5 and 8 have expressed their satisfaction based on
material on record at page Nos. 22 to 27 of this order and paragraphs
5[a] to [k] and 6 of affidavit in reply reproduced therein and
accordingly orders are passed. That inter
se
connectivity of transactions qua the subject property reveal three
stages of transactions viz. Placement, layering and integration and
such aspects are considered by the authorities upon a detailed
inquiry for which complaint was filed and keeping it open for the
appellate authority to peruse the record and contentions and
submissions on law as well as facts on merit when the issue about
jurisdiction and powers of the competent authority of provisionally
attaching the property and confirming such order of provisional
attachment by adjudicating authority under Section 8 of the PML Act
are not contrary to law and contentions of learned Senior Advocates
about lack of jurisdiction and powers of the authority vis-a-vis
subject property of both the petitioners are rejected accordingly. 13.		As
noticed and agreed with conclusions of Division Bench of Andhra
Pradesh High Court in the case of B.Rama
Raju [supra], more particularly
as per the emphasis supplied at page Nos.45 and 56, two sets
of proceedings may be initiated viz. prosecution under the Act and
attachment and eventual confiscation proceedings are distinct
proceedings. Therefore, the above two sets of proceedings may be
initiated against the same person, if he is accused of money
laundering. Even when a person is not arraigned as accused, the
property in his possession may be proceeded against for attachment
and confiscation on a satisfaction of the appropriate and competent
authority that such property constitutes `proceeds of crime'. 14.		That
provisional order of attachment of the subject property and
confirmation thereof do not violate Article 14 or Article 20(1) and/or (2) of the Constitution of India. That reliance placed on
Division Bench of Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of B.Rama
Raju [supra], more particularly emphasis
supplied and marked as 1(a) to 1(h), 2(a) to 2(d), 3(a) to 3(d) and
4(a) to 4(c) in this
order, answer the challenge of the respective parties about
exercising power under Sections 5 and 8 of the PML Act being
violative of Article 14 , 20 and 21 of the Constitution of India. 15.		In
the above circumstances, when directions are issued by Directorate
of Enforcement to the Sub-Registrar of Registration, State of Gujarat
not
to register the documents is well supported by reasons and rationale
behind such order being the property would otherwise be frittered
away and the conduct of private respondents in disposing of the
subject property even during the pendency of the proceedings of PML
Act justified for passing such orders. That purchase of the property
which
is subject matter of Special Civil Application No.1059 of 2012 for
which objections are invited while seeking Title Clearance of such
property
and absence thereof would not ipso
facto
result into taking away powers of competent authority under the PML
Act to take all possible
steps to prevent further alienation of subject properties. Such
orders / instructions by the Directorate of Enforcement to the
Sub-Registrar of Registration, State of Gujarat are within the four
corners of law and are in consonance with the object and reasons of
the Act to ensure that proceeds of crime do not change hand and
ultimately result in making it impossible for the authority to
recover such property. 16.		Thus,
to avoid any repetition, emphasis supplied and marked as 1(a) to
1(h), 2(a) to 2(d), 3(a) to 3(d) and 4(a) to 4(c) in the highlighted
portions of the judgement in the case of B. Rama Raju [supra] are apt
and issues with regard to jurisdiction and powers of the authorities
raised in these petitions are fully covered and legality and validity
of the action of the respondent Nos. 2 and 3 impugned in these
petitions viz. provisional attachment order[s] passed by the
competent authority and confirmation by adjudicating authority of the
provisional attachment and directions issued by the Directorate of
Enforcement to the Sub-Registrar of Registration, State of Gujarat
not to register the documents, are within four corners of law and
when both the petitioners have approached the appellate authority
under Section 26 of the PML Act, and even thereafter jurisdiction of
the High Court could be invoked under Section 42 of the PML Act,
these petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution of India are
therefore rejected. 17.		So
far as the decisions relied on by the learned Senior Advocates for
the parties in the cases of [1] Janardhan
Reddy [supra], [2]
Calcutta Discount Co. Ltd. [supra] [3] M/s.Onkarlal Nandlal [supra],
and [4] M/s. Filterco [supra] are concerned, I am in complete agreement
with the proposition of law laid down by the Apex Court in the above
mentioned cases, but they have no applicability to the facts of the
present case. 18.		Considering
the facts and circumstances of the case, no interference is called
for by this Court in exercise of powers under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India. 19.		However,
it is made clear that any infraction on merit of the cases while
dealing with the contentions about jurisdiction and powers of
authorities under Sections 5 & 8 of the PML Act, shall have no
bearing on pending proceedings before the Appellate Tribunal. Notice
issued in each of the petitions stands discharged. (ANANT
S.DAVE, J.) 

 

 

 

 

 

	At
this stage, Mr. Mihir Thakore, learned Senior Advocate and Mr. Mihir
Joshi, learned Senior Advocate appearing for petitioners in Special
Civil Application No.4171 of 2012 and Special Civil Application
No.1059 of 2012 respectively request that at least possession qua the
subject properties be not disturbed till the appellate tribunal
decides the pending appeals. Mr.
P.S.Champaneri, learned Assistant
Solicitor General, is unable to dispute that during the
pendency of both these petitions, pursuant to the impugned orders
passed by the respondent authorities viz. provisional attachment of
the properties and confirmation thereof except notice dated
09.10.2012 for handing over possession, no action is taken in
furtherance thereof. Therefore, status quo as on date qua the
subject properties in both these petitions shall continue till the
appellate tribunal takes final decision on the pending appeals
keeping in view the provisions of sub-section (6) of section 26 of
the PML Act. (ANANT S.DAVE, J.) 

 

pvv
 

	 

	Page 67 of 67