Heard Mr. A.K. Thakur, learned senior counsel for

 the appellant, Mr. Ajay Mishra, learned Additional Public

 Prosecutor for the State and Mr. Patanjli Rishi, learned counsel

 for the informant via video conferencing. The appellant has pressed his application for

 suspension of sentence and grant of bail during pendency of the

 appeal. He has been convicted for the offence punishable under

 Section 302 read with 120B of the Indian Penal Code and Section 27 of the Arms Act. As per the prosecution case, on 5th of March, 2012 at
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.11 of 2020(3) dt.06-07-2021 2/5 05:15 PM, the informant Vijay Kumar along with Branch

 Manager of the Punjab National Bank, Bharathpura Branch

 went to the house of Guddu Sharama @ Dhananjay Kumar

 Bharti after closing the Branch and after taking tea both of them

 proceeded for Patna by motorcycle at 06:00 PM and when they

 reached near village Katari at 06:45 PM, two persons riding on

 the motorcycle came there and dashed their motorcycle, as a

 result of which, they fell down. The pillion rider came down

 from the motorcycle and fired upon the right side near neck of

 the Branch Manager and commanded the informant to keep

 quiet. Thereafter, they fled away. The Branch Manager died on

 the spot and his body was sent to the hospital. Further case of

 the prosecution is that the Branch Manager was disturbed since

 the last few days as some brokers of KCC loan were threatening

 him for doing some illegal work. Learned counsel appearing for the appellant submitted

 that the witnesses examined during trial did not identify the

 appellant as the person, who had participated in the commission

 of the offence. He contended that there is no legal evidence on

 the basis of which, the trial court could have reached to the

 conclusion of guilt against the appellant. He further contended

 that PWs 1 to 6 were declared hostile by the trial court at the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.11 of 2020(3) dt.06-07-2021 3/5 request of the prosecution, PW-7 has simply stated that the

 deceased was killed, who was a Manager in Punjab National

 Bank and he is a generator operator of the Bank, PW-8

 identified the signature of the seizure list but has stated that

 police has not recorded his statement, similar is the statement of

 PW-9, PW-10, who is an elder brother of the deceased stated

 that the deceased was posted in Punjab National Bank as a

 Manager and was under the grip of agents, namely, Ravindra

 Yadav, Mukesh Yadav, Rakesh Yadav and Bank employee

 Sujeet Kumar were indulged in providing illegal loan and on the

 basis of forged revenue receipt and LPC, they used to put

 pressure for withdrawing money in the name of dead person,

 PWs-11 and 12 are the doctors, who conducted the postmortem

 report, PW-13 is a hearsay witness, PW-14 is the police

 inspector, who has stated that he obtained the letter written by

 the deceased from the office of the Regional Manager with

 respect to threat given to him, PW-15 is an officer of the Bank,

 who has also not a witness to the occurrence. PW-16 is the I.O.,

 who investigated the case in part, PW-17 is the I.O. in whose

 presence, the inquest report was prepared, PW-18 Laxman

 Kumar has proved the signature of the seizure list. PW-19 is

 another seizure list witness, PW-20 is a Senior Scientist of
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.11 of 2020(3) dt.06-07-2021 4/5 Forensic Science Laboratory and he has exhibited his report

 relating to the sample of the blood and PW-21 is a Senior

 Scientist of Forensic Science Laboratory, who has proved his

 report which is marked as Ext-10. He next contended that the

 aforesaid witnesses have not stated anything on the basis of

 which the appellant could have been convicted under Section

 302 with aid of Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code. Learned counsel for the State and learned counsel for

 the informant have vehemently opposed the prayer for grant of

 bail during pendency of the appeal to the appellant. They

 contended that PW-10 has categorically stated in his evidence

 that the deceased used to tell that the appellant and others used

 to put undue pressure upon him for doing illegal acts in the

 matter of grant of KCC loan. Having heard the parties and considered the evidence

 on record, since the appellant is in custody for over eight and a

 half years and there is no likelihood of the appeal to be taken up

 for hearing in near future, he is directed to be released on bail,

 during pendency of the appeal, on furnishing bail bond of

 Rs.10,000/-(rupees ten thousand) with two sureties of the like

 amount each to the satisfaction of the learned Addl. Sessions

 Judge-I, Danapur (Patna) in connection with Sessions Trial No.
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.11 of 2020(3) dt.06-07-2021 5/5 511 of 2013 arising out of Bikram P.S. Case No. 42 of 2012,

 subject to deposit of fine awarded by the trial court as part of

 sentence. (Ashwani Kumar Singh, J)

 ( Anil Kumar Sinha, J)
rohit/-