Mr. Anjan Datta, Advocate

Heard on : 05.04.2016 & 07.04.2016. This criminal appeal has been directed against the judgment
and order of conviction dated 24th September, 2013, recorded by
learned Additional District and Sessions Judge, Haldia, Purba
Medinipur in Sessions Trial No. 10(2) 2013 where learned trial
Court found the appellant guilty of the offence punishable under Section 489C of the Indian Penal Code, convicted him and
sentenced him to suffer rigorous imprisonment for five years and to
 pay a fine of Rs. 2,000/- in default, to suffer further rigorous
imprisonment for six months, though the appellant was found not
guilty of the offence punishable under Section 489B of the Code. Briefly stated the case of the prosecution, as revealed from the
written complaint dated 11th August, 2012 is that on the self-same
date while A.S.I., Dipak Kumar Nandi of Durgachak P.S. was on
patrol duty, following a secret telephonic information from a reliable
source, he apprehended the appellant, Bapi Halder @ Rejabul at
Manjusree More (Durgachak P.S.) with 20 fake Indian Currency
Notes of Rs. 100/- denomination and two such fake notes of Rs.
500/- denomination kept in a brown envelope while the appellant
was getting down from Sutahata bound bus near Janata Hotel at
said Manjusree More. On interrogation and search in presence of
three local witnesses, such Fake Indian Currency Notes were
recovered from the custody of the appellant who on further
interrogation confessed that he used to deal with forged currency
notes and he obtained the said notes from one Sk. Serajul Haque of
Raichak. The appellant failed to give any satisfactory explanation
for possessing those fake notes. Accordingly, the police officer
holding such raid, arrested the appellant from the spot with those
fake notes and ultimately he was sent to the court to face trial for
committing the offence punishable under Section 489B / 489C of the
Indian Penal Code, after due investigation of the case. In course of trial learned Court below examined ten witnesses
altogether including the A.S.I., Dipak Kumar Nandi (P.W. - 1), the
 de facto complainant, three witnesses, claimed to be local
witnesses, named Sripati Jana (P.W. - 4), Bapan Bhunia (P.W. - 5),
Sk. Mosaraf Ali (P.W. - 6), S.I., Subhash Chandra Jana, I.O. of this
case (P.W. - 10) and one B. Venkataramana, the Manager of Salboni
Mint who examined the genuineness of the notes as expert (P.W. - 3) and other witnesses like C/113 Tapan Samanta, C/885 Pradip
Kumar Majhi, C/986 Tapan Das (P.Ws. 7, 8 & 9) respectively, i.e.
the members of the raiding party accompanying the de facto
complainant while performing mobile duty. On the strength of the
evidence and materials-on-record, learned trial Court found the
appellant not guilty of the offence punishable under Section 489B of
the Indian Penal Code but found him guilty of the offence
punishable under Section 489C of the Code and sentenced him to
suffer rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine, as referred to
earlier. Being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the judgment and
order of conviction, the appellant herein preferred this appeal
mainly on the following grounds:- Now, the point for consideration left before this Court is -
whether learned trial Court justified in convicting the
appellant for commission of the offence punishable under Section 489C of the Indian Penal Code. The appellant shall be held guilty of the offence
punishable under Section 489C of the Code if it is established
 that he has in his possession any forged or counterfeit
currency notes or bank notes, knowing or having reason to
believe the same to be forged or counterfeit and intending to
use the same as genuine or it may be used as genuine. The learned Counsel for the appellant, in course of his
argument, submitted that his client was apprehended on some
unfounded allegations showing that twenty fake Indian
Currency Notes of Rs. 100/- denomination and two such fake
notes of Rs. 500/- denomination were allegedly recovered from
his possession but in fact Rs. 5000/- genuine notes were
snatched away from the possession of the appellant and he
was implicated showing that he was possessing such fake
notes. Drawing my attention to the written complaint (Exhibit - 7), he urged that in the said written complaint it was noted
that the appellant obtained the forged Indian Currency Notes
from one Sk. Serajul at Raichak but the prosecuting agency
did not take any step against the actual culprit. He, with all
fairness, admitted that even for the sake of argument if it is
accepted that the appellant was in possession of those fake
notes, mere possession of those notes does not constitute the
offence punishable under Section 489C of the Code unless it is
established that he intended to use the same as genuine or he
had any intention to do the same. To fortify his argument, he
relied on a decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Uma
 Shanker vs. State of Chhattisgarh , reported in AIR 2001
SC 3074 and pointed out that the Sections 489A to 489E deal
with various economic offences in respect of forged or
counterfeit currency notes or bank notes. He also submitted
with reference to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
in Umashanker (supra) that the object of legislature in
enacting these provisions is not only to protect the economy of
the country but also to provide adequate protection to
currency notes and bank notes. Denying the factum of possession of any fake note by the
appellant at the place of so called incident, he also pointed
out that mere possession of any fake currency notes would not
be sufficient to constitute the offence punishable under Section 489C in the absence of 'means rea' as stated earlier
and the prosecution had to establish that the incumbent
against whom a charge under Section 489C was framed had
been in possession of such currency notes or bank notes
knowing or having reason to believe be forged or counterfeit
and intending to use the same as genuine or that it may be
used as genuine. The learned Counsel for the state expressed a contrary
view in the matter. He pointed out that the seizure was made
from the custody of the appellant herein in a public place in
presence of some local witnesses (P.W.s 4, 5 & 6). He drew my
attention to the oral testimony of one B. Venkataramana (P.W. - 3) while proving the report of analysis (Exhibits - 9 to 11, in
four sheets) which reflected that the notes were Fake Indian
Currency Notes, seized from the custody of the appellant
herein and no satisfactory explanation was given by him for
possessing the same at the material time for which he was
sent for facing trial before the Court of law and while justifying
the findings of the learned trial Court, learned Counsel for the
state further submitted, with reference to the statement of the
appellant during his examination in terms of Section 313 Cr.
P. C., that the factum of recovery of Rs. 5,000/- from the
custody of the appellant was neither disclosed at the initial
stage of trial either by way of cross-examination of any of the
witnesses or otherwise though he tried to introduce such an
'alibi' as defence on conclusion of trial without having any
proof for the same which adversely affected the merit of the
case, so far as the defence of the appellant was concerned. He
further opined that learned trial Court was justified in holding
the appellant guilty of the offence punishable under Section
489C of the Code. Before appreciation of the evidence-on-record, the
provision of Section 489C of Code is quoted below for an
analysis of the same:- From an analysis of the Provision of Section 489C the
 following ingredients are required to be established - (1) The notes in question are either currency notes
 or bank notes; (2) Such notes were forged or counterfeit; (3) Accused was in possession of such notes; (4) Accused knew or had reason to believe that
 such notes were forged or counterfeit; (5) He intended to use the same as genuine. The written complaint (Exhibit - 7), duly proved by none but
the de facto complainant (PW - 1) clearly narrated the incident right
from getting secret information from a reliable source with regard to
carrying of the fake Indian Currency Notes by the appellant and
initiation of the proceeding, seizure of such fake notes (Material
Exhibits I & II, Analyst's Report Exhibits - 9, 10 & 11) allegedly
from the custody of the appellant herein. From the Analyst's Reports (Exhibits - 10 & 11 respectively), it
is clearly established that those notes were not genuine Indian
Currency Notes. The oral testimony of the de facto complainant
 Dipak Kumar Nandi (PW - 1) and the seizure witnesses Sripati Jana
(P.W. - 4), Bapan Bhunia (P.W. - 5), Sk. Mosaraf Ali (P.W. - 6)
revealed that the appellant was apprehended from a Sutahata
bound bus while he got down from the said bus at Manjusree more
at Haldia. All the witnesses admitted that the place of seizure was
thickly populated at 7-00/7-30 P.M. A critical appreciation of the
oral testimony of the witnesses named above it transpired that the
seizure of fake notes amounting Rs. 3000/- (20 such notes of Rs.
100/- denomination and 2 such notes of Rs. 500/- denomination)
took place under a mysterious circumstances in presence of such
witnesses who were merely chance witnesses. There is absolutely
nothing on record to show that the appellant tried to flee away
seeing the policemen rather his apprehension by way of his giving
in before the investigating agency proved otherwise. Hence their
evidence with regard to possession of those fake notes by the
appellant has not been convincingly established. Even, for the sake of argument, if it is accepted that those fake
notes were recovered from the custody of the appellant, this does
not constitute the offence punishable under Section 489C of the
Indian Penal Code. The ingredients of offence punishable under Section 489C , as pointed out earlier, require that the person in
possession of such notes knew that those were forged or counterfeit
and he intended to use the same as genuine. The principle as laid
down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Umashanker vs. State of
Chhattisgarh , reported in AIR 2001 SC 3074, is that mere
possession of fake currency notes would not be sufficient to
 constitute the offence punishable under Section 489C in the
absence of 'means rea' and the prosecution had to establish that
the incumbent against whom a charge under Section 489C was
framed had been in possession of such currency notes or bank
notes, knowing or having reason to believe to be forged or
counterfeit and intending to use the same as genuine or it may be
used as genuine. A Division Bench of this Court in Roney Dubey
vs. State of West Bengal , reported in 2008 (1) CHN at page 883
held, relying on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Umashanker (supra) that mere possession of fake notes cannot be
sufficient to constitute the offence or it cannot be said that the
allegation of the offence punishable under Section 489C is proved. Reiterating the above decisions of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Umashanker vs. State of Chhattisgarh (supra), this Court, in Md.
Muktarul Islam @ Suman vs. State of West Bengal , reported in
(2014) 2 Cal L.T. 260 (HC) while setting aside the order of
conviction for committing the offence punishable under Sections
489B / 489C , further held that it was the duty of the prosecution to
prove the allegation beyond reasonable doubt and any departure
from it would reasonably exclude the appellant from conviction. As
it is held that the recovery of fake notes took place from the custody
of the appellants in a mysterious circumstances, he deserve the
benefit of doubt since the other important ingredients of the offence
punishable under Section 489C of the Code is not established at all. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case, the
materials-on-record, as the strength of above discussion, I set aside
 the impugned judgment and order of conviction passed by learned
Additional District and Sessions Judge, Haldia, Purba Medinipur in
S. T. No. 10(2) 2013. The appellant is set at liberty at once. Since
the appellant is reportedly on bail, his bail bond stands cancelled. A copy of this judgment be sent to learned trial Court along
with the L.C.R. at once. Urgent photostat certified copy of this order, if applied for, be
given to the parties on priority basis after compliance with all
necessary formalities. (Ishan Chandra Das, J.)