% 28.08.2025 1. This is an application filed on behalf of the applicant/petitioner Aman
 Batra in case FIR No. 0129/2023, under Section 420 / 406 / 34 IPC, PS Greater
 Kailash-I, New Delhi. 2. Status Report filed by the learned APP, which be taken on record. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that petitioner is neither the
 signatory nor the witness of the sale deed dated 30.01.2023. He states that
 accused company is currently undergoing Corporate Insolvency Resolution
 Process ["CIRP"] vide orders dated 15.04.2024 and 16.04.2024, passed by
 the National Company Law Tribunal ["NCLT"]. He further submits that the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/08/2025 at 23:37:33
 land which was mortgaged with Small Industries Development Bank of
 India ["SIDBI"] is different from the land which is the subject matter of the
 Agreement to Sell ["ATS"]. It is also submitted that as per reply dated
 17.09.2024 by SIDBI, the duration of mortgage of the land is 23.01.2015 to
 31.01.2024, whereas, the land forming subject matter of ATS, was
 purchased only on 07.06.2017. As such, the land forming part of the alleged
 ATS could never have been mortgaged with SIDBI. 4. It is argued that the transaction in question is purely a civil dispute,
 arising out of the inability of main accused No. 1 company i.e. Bee K Bee
 Prints Private Limited to repay the loan obtained from the complainant. No
 civil action has been taken against the applicant by the complainant till date.
 The FIR has been registered with the sole intention to harass the applicant
 and give the civil dispute a criminal colour for the recovery of money,
 allegedly owed to the complainant. 5. It is further submitted that the investigation qua the present petitioner
 has been completed and charge sheet has already been filed in court.
 Petitioner has undergone long incarceration of more than 12 months. He is
 not required for further investigation and is therefore entitled to be released
 on bail. 6. Bail application has been opposed by Mr. Vikas Pahwa, learned
 Senior Counsel, appearing for the complainant, as also by the learned APP.
 It has been submitted that the suit property forms part of large track of land,
 different portion of which were acquired by the complainant at various
 points of time. What had been mortgaged was entire land and this fact has
 been physically duly verified by the police during investigation. It is further
 submitted that the petitioner is involved in four more cases of similar nature. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/08/2025 at 23:37:33
 He is also accused in about 100 cases pending against him under Section
 138 Negotiable Instruments Act. He is thus a habitual offender. Co-accused
 is also absconding. There is every possibility that in case petitioner is
 granted bail, he may abscond. 7. As per allegations, an ATS was executed between Bee K Bee Prints
 Private Limited and the complainant on 27.01.2023 qua the property situated
 at Faridabad (Haryana) for a total consideration of Rs. 1.05 crores.
 Complainant paid Rs. 95 lakhs at the time of execution of the said ATS. The
 property was stated to be free from all encumbrances/lien/mortgage.
 However, the property was found to be mortgaged with the bank and was
 sold to a third person. 8. Petitioner is stated to be the Director of the company and his role is
 that he and other Directors had approached the complainant to sell the
 property. 9. The object of bail is to secure the presence of the accused at the time
 of trial. The object is thus neither punitive nor preventive. The person who
 has not been convicted should only be kept in custody if there are reasons to
 believe that he might flee from justice or tamper with the evidence or
 threaten the witnesses. In the case of Sanjay Chandra Vs. CBI , (2012) 1
 SCC 40, the Supreme Court observed as under: The offences alleged are economic offences which have resulted in loss to
 the State exchequer. Though, they contend that there is a possibility of the
 appellants tampering with the witnesses, they have not placed any
 material in support of the allegation. In our view, seriousness of the
 charge is, no doubt, one of the relevant considerations while considering
 bail applications but that is not the only test or the factor : the other factor
 that also requires to be taken note of is the punishment that could be
 imposed after trial and conviction, both under the Penal Code and the
 Prevention of Corruption Act. Otherwise, if the former is the only test, we
 would not be balancing the constitutional rights but rather "recalibrating
 the scales of justice". 25. The provisions of Cr PC confer discretionary jurisdiction on criminal
 courts to grant bail to the accused pending trial or in appeal against
 convictions; since the jurisdiction is discretionary, it has to be exercised
 with great care and caution by balancing the valuable right of liberty of
 an individual and the interest of the society in general. In our view, the
 reasoning adopted by the learned District Judge, which is affirmed by the
 High Court, in our opinion, is a denial of the whole basis of our system of
 law and normal rule of bail system. It transcends respect for the
 requirement that a man shall be considered innocent until he is found
 guilty. If such power is recognised, then it may lead to chaotic situation
 and would jeopardise the personal liberty of an individual. ***** 46. We are conscious of the fact that the accused are charged with

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/08/2025 at 23:37:33
 economic offences of huge magnitude. We are also conscious of the fact
 that the offences alleged, if proved, may jeopardise the economy of the
 country. At the same time, we cannot lose sight of the fact that the
 investigating agency has already completed investigation and the
 charge-sheet is already filed before the Special Judge, CBI, New Delhi.
 Therefore, their presence in the custody may not be necessary for
 further investigation. We are of the view that the appellants are entitled
 to the grant of bail pending trial on stringent conditions in order to ally
 the apprehension expressed by CBI." (emphasis supplied) 10. Admittedly, investigation qua the present petitioner is already
 complete. The evidence is mostly documentary in nature and is in
 possession of the investigating agency. Petitioner is therefore not required
 for any further investigation. He is in custody for last more than one year. 11. The offence, no doubt, is grave and serious and there are number of
 criminal cases pending against the petitioner but these factors by themselves
 cannot be the sole basis for denial of bail. The trial may take long time to
 conclude. Right to speedy trial is an essential part of Article 21. Delay in
 trial proceedings without fault of the accused is a ground for bail. 12. Hence, taking into consideration the period spent in custody and there
 being no likelihood that the trial would conclude in near future, keeping in
 view the facts and circumstances of the case, the Court deems it appropriate
 to admit the applicant/petitioner on bail on his furnishing a personal bond in
 the sum of Rs. 30,000/- with one surety of the like amount to the satisfaction
 of the trial court, subject to the following conditions:- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/08/2025 at 23:37:33 c) that petitioner shall share his mobile number with the Investigating
 Officer and the trial court and shall keep it operational all times; d) that in case of change of residential address, the petitioner shall
 immediately bring the same to the notice of the trial court/Investigating
 Officer. 13. Application is accordingly allowed. 14. Nothing stated in this order shall tantamount to an expression on the
 merits of the case. 15. Copy of this order be sent to Jail Superintendent for information and
 compliance. RAVINDER DUDEJA, J. AUGUST 28, 2025
 RM

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/08/2025 at 23:37:33