This is the third application filed under section 439 Cr.P.C. Applicant Ajay Kumar was arrested on 21.07.2018 in
Crime No. 119/2018 registered at Police Station Cyber Crime
Branch Bhopal, District Bhopal for the offence punishable
under Section 419 , 468 , 471 , 120B of IPC and Section 66C and 66D of I.T. Act 2008. The first and second bail applications of the applicant
have been dismissed by the coordinate bench of this Court vide
order dated 05.10.2018 and 18.01.2019 passed in M.Cr.C. No.
36387/2018 and M.Cr.C. No. 1229/2019 respectively. As per prosecution story complainant, Vineeta Bajpayi
lodged a written complaint at P.S. Cyber Crime Branch Bhopal
averring that she was contacted by a person on her mobile
phone who told her that he was from Shinework consultancy
and she might get a job as an accountant in a company like
Godrej or Mahindra and for that she is required to get herself
registered with the website namely www. Shinework.in, after
paying the registration charge of Rs. 10/-. It is further averred
that when she tried to pay the aforesaid registration fee of Rs.
10/- an extra amount of Rs.10000/- got deducted from her
account. The complainant came to know about the mischief
 THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH M.Cr.C. No.51194/2019 ( Ajay Kumar Vs. State of M.P. ) 2 when she received a message from her credit card company.
On that report, police registered crime No. 119/2018 at Police
Station Cyber Crime Branch Bhopal, District Bhopal for the
offence punishable under Section 419 , 468 , 471 , 120B of IPC
and Section 66C and 66D of I.T. Act 2008 and investigated the
matter. During the investigation, it was found that applicant in
connivance with another co-accused persons Vishal Goswami,
Sahil Dagar, Sonal Singh Rathore, Jayant and Gazal @ Sofiya
created a website "www. Shinework.in" to cheat innocent
people. Co-accused Vishal Goswami created that website and
registered it on "Godaddy. com." For registering that site sim
number 8800750951 belonging to the applicant and the sim
number 8860357318 belonging to co-accused Sofiya were used
and registration fee was paid by co-accused Sahil Dagar. Co-
accused Vishal Goswami also prepared 50 fake IDs on Gmail
and sent a list of those IDs to applicant Ajay by Email on his
email ID [email protected] , who forwarded that
message to Sahil on his Email ID [email protected] .
Modus Operandi of the applicant and other co-accused was that
they used to call people and tell them that they could get jobs
in big companies, but for that, they will have to register
themselves on their website by paying ₹ 10 as fee. When
people deposited the fee with their card to register they took
note of their card number, account number, card expiry date
etc. and by using that data transferred the money from victim's
accounts to other wallet and thus cheated people. Co-accused
Jaspreet Sachdeva provided them internet connection, space
 THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH M.Cr.C. No.51194/2019 ( Ajay Kumar Vs. State of M.P. ) 3 and other facilities to run the center. The static IP address used
in the crime belonged to co-accused Jaspreet Sachdeva. So the
police arrested the applicant and other co-accused.
 Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is
innocent and has falsely been implicated in this case. It is
further submitted that the applicant is an unemployed youth
who was offered a job in a call centre by one Sahil Dagar. He
started his job as an office attendant. The applicant being an
employee gave his mobile number as part of his records, which
was abused by the Sahil Dagar without the knowledge of the
applicant. From the charge sheet, it is clear that the applicant's
mobile No. 8800750951 was not actually used for the purpose
of creation of the alleged website. During the investigation, it
was found that the static IP address used in the aforesaid crime
belonged to one Jaspreet Sachdeva which clearly shows that
co-accused Jaspreet Sachdeva defrauded the applicant also.
Applicant himself is a victim of fraud committed on him by his
employer. Even the statement of complainant Vinita Bajpayi
has been recorded by the trial court. She did not depose
anything against the applicant. She admitted in her cross-
examination that due to her fault Rs. 10010/- got deducted
from her account in place of Rs.10 which was refunded to her
in 3 days. Charge-sheet has been filed. The applicant has been
in custody since 21.07.2018 and the conclusion of the trial will
take time, hence prayed for the release of the applicant on bail. Learned counsel for the State opposed the prayer and
submitted applicant in connivance with other co-accused
 THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH M.Cr.C. No.51194/2019 ( Ajay Kumar Vs. State of M.P. ) 4 persons created a phishing website through which he
committed fraud upon innocent persons. Earlier bail
applications of the applicant have been dismissed on merits.
there is no change in circumstance ever since , so he should not
be released on bail. Complainant Vinita Bajpayi in her examination-in-chief
clearly deposed that she paid Rs. 10/- through her credit card
but instead of Rs. 10/-, Rs. 10010/- got deducted from her
account and in this regard, she logged a written report Ex.P-1.
At this stage, this court cannot ascertain the veracity of the
statements of the complainant by evaluating her statement on
merits. The statements of other prosecution witnesses have to
be recorded. Two earlier bail applications of the applicant have
been dismissed on merit by the coordinate bench of this court,
there has been no change in the circumstances ever since
except the period of detention. But, only on that ground
applicant is not entitled to get bail. Hon'ble Apex Court in the
case of Rajesh Ranjan Yadav alias Pappu Yadav v. CBI
Through its Director reported in (2007) 1 SCC 70 held that
bail, can not be granted solely on the ground of long
incarnation in jail and inability of accused to conduct the
defence. Apex court in the case of State of M.P. v. Kajad ,
(2001) 7 SCC 673 observed "It is true that successive bail
applications are permissible under the changed circumstances.
But without the change in the circumstances, the second
application would be deemed to be seeking review of the
earlier judgment which is not permissible under criminal law" So, looking to the whole facts and circumstances of the
 case and the allegations, this Court is not inclined to grant bail
 to the applicant. Hence, M.Cr.C. is rejected.