K.M. JOSEPH, J. Index
 A. THE REFERENCE............................................................................................................................... 2
 B. A BIRD’S OVERVIEW OF THE FACTS IN N.N. GLOBAL ...................................................................... 3
 C. THE FINDINGS IN N.N. GLOBAL IN REGARD TO THE QUESTION UNDER THE CAPTION ‘VALIDITY
 OF AN ARBITRATION AGREEMENT IN AN UNSTAMPED AGREEMENT’................................................... 5
 D. SUBMISSION OF THE PARTIES ....................................................................................................... 15
 E. ANALYSIS ....................................................................................................................................... 29
 F. THE ACT ......................................................................................................................................... 30
 G. WHAT LED TO THE INSERTION OF SECTION 11(6A)? .................................................................... 32
 H. THE SCHEME OF THE STAMP ACT ................................................................................................. 53
 I. HINDUSTAN STEEL LIMITED ANALYSED ........................................................................................ 59
 J. THE INDIAN CONTRACT ACT, 1872 - A SURVEY; DISSECTION OF GARWARE, VIDYA DROLIA AND
 N.N. GLOBAL ......................................................................................................................................... 64 Signature Not Verified K. Digitally signed by THE STAMP ACT – WHETHER A PROCEDURAL LAW?.................................................................... 88
Nidhi Ahuja
Date: 2023.04.25
 L.
18:29:45 IST
Reason: SECTION 7 OF THE ACT – ITS IMPACT ........................................................................................... 97
 M. THE ALTERNATIVE PERSPECTIVE ............................................................................................. 105
 N. THE AMICUS CURIE SPRINGS A SURPRISE ................................................................................... 111 1 O. SECTIONS 33 AND 35 OF THE STAMP ACT; THE COURT OR THE ARBITRATOR TO ACT? ............ 124
P. ARBITRATION AGREEMENT, A DISTINCT AGREEMENT AND ITS IMPACT? ................................. 132
Q. CONCLUSIONS ............................................................................................................................. 137 1. We have perused the draft judgments prepared by

our esteemed brothers Ajay Rastogi, J. and Hrishikesh

Roy, J. With profound respect to our learned Brothers,

we are unable to, however, concur with them in their

reasoning and conclusions save as will be made clear.

Hence, the following judgment. A. THE REFERENCE 2. A Bench of three learned Judges disposed of Civil

Appeal Nos. 3802-3803 of 2020 by Judgment dated

11.01.2021. The Judgment is reported in N.N. Global

Mercantile Private Limited v. Indo Unique Flame Limited and others1. What is of relevance for the purpose of

the Reference is the following: existent in law, and unenforceable, is not the
 correct position in law. 57. In view of the finding in paras 146 and
 147 of the judgment in Vidya Drolia [Vidya
 Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn. , (2021) 2 SCC 1
 : (2021) 1 SCC (Civ) 549] by a coordinate
 Bench, which has affirmed the judgment
 in Garware [Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. v. Coastal
 Marine Constructions & Engg. Ltd. , (2019) 9 SCC
 209 : (2019) 4 SCC (Civ) 324] , the aforesaid
 issue is required to be authoritatively settled
 by a Constitution Bench of this Court. 58. We consider it appropriate to refer the
 following issue, to be authoritatively settled
 by a Constitution Bench of five Judges of this
 Court: Clause 10 of the Work Order, constituting the sub-

contract, provided for an Arbitration Clause. The

appellant had furnished a bank guarantee in terms of

Clause 9. The invocation of the said guarantee led to

a Suit by the appellant against the encashment of the

bank guarantee. The first respondent applied under Section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996

(hereinafter referred to as, ‘the Act’, for short)

seeking Reference. A Writ Petition was filed by the

first respondent challenging the Order of the

Commercial Court rejecting the Application under Section 8 of the Act. One of the contentions raised was

that the Arbitration Agreement became unenforceable as

the Work Order was unstamped. The High Court, however,

allowed the Writ Petition filed by the first

respondent. The issue relevant to this Bench was,

whether the Arbitration Agreement would be enforceable

and acted upon, even if the Work Order is unstamped and

unenforceable under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (hereinafter referred to as, ‘the Stamp Act ’, for

short). 4 C. THE FINDINGS IN N.N. GLOBAL IN REGARD TO THE
QUESTION UNDER THE CAPTION ‘VALIDITY OF AN
ARBITRATION AGREEMENT IN AN UNSTAMPED
AGREEMENT’ 4. The Court found that an Arbitration Agreement is a

distinct and separate agreement, which is independent

from the substantive commercial contract in which it

is embedded. Under the Doctrine of Kompetenz–Kompetenz,

the Arbitral Tribunal had competence to rule on its own

jurisdiction, including objections with regard to the

existence, validity and scope of the Arbitration

Agreement. Section 16(1) of the Act was relied upon.

The Court made a copious reference to case law in

support of the Doctrine of Kompetenz-Kompetenz. Section

5 of the Act contemplated minimal judicial

interference. The Court referred to the Maharashtra

Stamp Act, 1958 . Section 34 of the said Act,

essentially, is pari materia with Section 35 of the

Stamp Act, 1899 hereinafter referred to as the Stamp

Act . There are other provisions, which essentially

follow the same pattern as is contained in the latter

Act. The Court, thereafter, went on to refer to Item 5 63 of Schedule I of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 ,

which dealt with ‘Works Contract’. It was found that

the Stamp Act is a fiscal measure. Thereafter, the

Court went on to discuss the Judgment of this Court

reported in SMS Tea Estates Private Limited v.

Chandmari Tea Company Private Limited2 . The Court

referred to the following part of the Judgment in SMS

Tea Estates (supra): Thereafter, the Court went on to find that the Work

Order was chargeable to payment of stamp duty. The

Court, however, found that the non-payment or the

deficiency on the Work Order did not invalidate the

main contract. Section 34 of the Maharashtra Act

corresponding to Section 35 of the Stamp Act did not

make the unstamped instrument, invalid, non-existent

or unenforceable in law. The Court found that the

Arbitration Agreement was a distinct and an independent

contract. On the Doctrine of Separability, it would not

be rendered invalid, unenforceable or non-existing,

even if the substantive contract, in which it is

contained, was inadmissible in evidence or could not 9 be acted upon, in view of it not being stamped. The

Bench in N.N. Global (supra) went on to hold as follows: Section 42(2) provides that after the document
 is duly stamped, it shall be admissible in
 evidence, and may be acted upon. 28. In our view, the decision in SMS Tea
 Estates [SMS Tea Estates (P) Ltd. v. Chandmari
 Tea Co. (P) Ltd. , (2011) 14 SCC 66 : (2012) 4
 SCC (Civ) 777] does not lay down the correct
 position in law on two issues i.e. : (i) that
 an arbitration agreement in an unstamped
 commercial contract cannot be acted upon, or
 is rendered unenforceable in law; and (ii) that
 an arbitration agreement would be invalid where
 the contract or instrument is voidable at the
 option of a party, such as under Section 19 of
 the Contract Act, 1872. 10 29. We hold that since the arbitration
agreement is an independent agreement between
the parties, and is not chargeable to payment
of stamp duty, the non-payment of stamp duty
on the commercial contract, would not
invalidate the arbitration clause, or render
it unenforceable, since it has an independent
existence of its own. The view taken by the
Court on the issue of separability of the
arbitration clause on the registration of the
substantive contract, ought to have been
followed even with respect to the Stamp Act .
The non-payment of stamp duty on the
substantive contract would not invalidate even
the main contract. It is a deficiency which is
curable on the payment of the requisite stamp
duty. 30. The second issue in SMS Tea Estates [SMS
Tea Estates (P) Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P)
Ltd. , (2011) 14 SCC 66 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ)
777] that a voidable contract would not be
arbitrable as it affects the validity of the
arbitration agreement, is in our view not the
correct position in law. The allegations made
by a party that the substantive contract has
been obtained by coercion, fraud, or
misrepresentation has to be proved by leading
evidence on the issue. These issues can
certainly be adjudicated through arbitration. 31. We overrule the judgment in SMS Tea
Estates [SMS Tea Estates (P) Ltd. v. Chandmari
Tea Co. (P) Ltd. , (2011) 14 SCC 66 : (2012) 4
SCC (Civ) 777] with respect to the aforesaid
two issues as not laying down the correct
position in law.” 11 7. We may also notice paragraph-32 in N.N. Global (supra): ”32.Garware [Garware Wall Ropes
 Ltd. v. Coastal Marine Constructions & Engg.
 Ltd. , (2019) 9 SCC 209 : (2019) 4 SCC (Civ)
 324] judgment has followed the judgment in SMS
 Tea Estates [SMS Tea Estates (P)
 Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P) Ltd. , (2011) 14
 SCC 66 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 777] . The counsel
 for the appellant has placed reliance on para
 22 of the judgment to contend that the
 arbitration clause would be non-existent in
 law, and unenforceable, till stamp duty is
 adjudicated and paid on the substantive
 contract. We hold that this finding is
 erroneous, and does not lay down the correct
 position in law. We have already held that an
 arbitration agreement is distinct and
 independent from the underlying substantive
 commercial contract. Once the arbitration
 agreement is held to have an independent
 existence, it can be acted upon, irrespective
 of the alleged invalidity of the commercial
 contract.” 8. Thereafter, the Bench of three learned Judges in N.N. Global (supra) noted that the Judgment in Garware (supra) was cited with approval by a Bench of three

learned Judges in Vidya Drolia and others v. Durga 12 Trading Corporation7 . The Court set out paragraphs 146

and 147 of Vidya Drolia (supra) and doubted the

correctness of the said view and found it appropriate

to refer the findings in paragraphs-22 and 29 of Garware (supra) as affirmed in paragraphs 146 & 147 of Vidya Drolia (supra) to the Constitution Bench. We deem

it appropriate to now refer to the following paragraphs

in N.N. Global (supra): 36.2. The second mode of appointment is where
the parties fail to make the appointment in
accordance with the arbitration agreement, and
an application is filed under Section 11 before
the Court to invoke the default power for
making the appointment. In such a case, the
High Court, or the Supreme Court, as the case
may be, while exercising jurisdiction under Section 11 , would impound the substantive
contract which is either unstamped or
inadequately stamped, and direct the parties
to cure the defect before the
arbitrator/tribunal can adjudicate upon the
contract. 36.3. The third mode is when an application is
filed under Section 8 before a judicial
authority for reference of disputes to
arbitration, since the subject-matter of the
contract is covered by an arbitration
agreement. In such a case, the judicial
authority will make the reference to
arbitration. However, in the meanwhile, the
parties would be directed to have the
substantive contract stamped in accordance
with the provisions of the relevant Stamp Act ,
so that the rights and obligations emanating
from the substantive contract can be
adjudicated upon.” 14 D. SUBMISSION OF THE PARTIES 9. Shri Gagan Sanghi, learned Counsel, appeared on

behalf of the appellant (M/s N.N. Global Mercantile

Private Limited). Initially, since there was no

appearance for the first respondent, we appointed Shri

Gourab Banerji, learned Senior Counsel as Amicus

Curiae. We also heard Ms. Malavika Trivedi, learned

Senior Counsel, appearing by way of intervention. Shri

K Ramakanth Reddy, learned Senior Counsel appeared

thereafter for the first respondent and made his

submissions. 10. Shri Gagan Sanghi would take us through the

provisions of the Stamp Act and the Act and contended

that Section 35 of the Stamp Act barred admission of a

not duly stamped instrument in evidence for any purpose

in Court. Furthermore, a Court could not act upon such

an instrument. Not even for a collateral purpose, ran

the argument. There is an absolute bar. An Arbitration

Agreement, even if contained in a Clause, in a Work

Order or in other commercial contract, cannot have a

separate existence as found in N.N. Global (supra). The 15 Doctrine of the Arbitration Agreement being distinct

and having a separate existence, has been erroneously

understood in the context of Sections 33 and 35 of the

Stamp Act. The Judgment in SMS Tea Estates (supra)

ought not to have been overruled. The Principle of

Stare Decisis could not have been overlooked. The

learned Counsel drew our attention to the fact that

several foreign countries have laws, which contain

provisions similar to Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp

Act. In fact, he would contend that there was no

occasion to make the reference as the main case stood

disposed of. He would submit that even in an

Application under Section 11 of the Act, the Court was

bound to observe the mandate of the law contained in Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. The law has been

correctly laid down in SMS Tea Estates (supra) and Garware (supra) and it was also correctly upheld in Vidya Drolia (supra). The amendment to Section 11 by

the insertion of sub-Section (6A), could not authorise

a Court to overlook the dictate of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. 16 11. Smt. Malvika Trivedi, learned Senior Counsel,
projected the same complaint against the view taken in N.N. Global (supra). She, in fact, drew our attention

to the impact of the view taken in N.N. Global (supra)

to the proceedings under Section 9 of the Act. It is

her case that the requirement to comply with Sections

33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, would not stand displaced,

even in an Application under Section 9 of the Act. 12. Shri Gourab Banerji, learned Amicus, contended
that actually, there were parts of Garware (supra), Vidya Drolia (supra) and N.N. Global (supra), which did

lay down the law correctly. He began by pointing out

that the Bench in N.N. Global (supra) was not correct

in proceeding on the basis that, an Arbitration

Agreement, was not required to be stamped. He drew our

attention to Article 5 of Schedule I of the Maharashtra

Stamp Act, 1958 in this regard. It is his submission

that the existence and/or validity of an Arbitration

Agreement is not affected by the provisions of the Stamp Act . Non-payment of the stamp duty will not

invalidate the instrument. It is a curable defect. A

true reading of Section 11(6A) would establish that the 17 impounding of an unstamped or deficiently stamped

instrument, is not to be done by the Judge under Section

11 but by the Arbitrator appointed under Section 11 . Section 11(6A) compels the Court to confine its

examination to the question of the existence of the

Arbitration Agreement. In view of the fact that,

neither Garware (supra) nor N.N. Global (supra) laid

down the law correctly, he requested that the reference

be reformulated as indicated later. 13. Relying upon the Judgment of this Court in Hindustan Steel Ltd. v. Dilip Construction Company8 , it

is contended that an unstamped document can be acted

upon, after payment of duty and penalty. Being a

curable defect, it could not be found that an unstamped

instrument did not exist in the eye of law. He drew our

attention to the Judgment of the Privy Council in

Lachmi Narayan Agarwalla and Others v. Braja Mohan

Singh (SINCE DECEASED)9, to contend that an unstamped

instrument, with penalty paid, became effective in law.

He further drew support from the following Judgments: 8 ii. Gulzari Lal Marwari v. Ram Gopal11

 iii. Purna Chandra Chakrabarty and others v. Kalipada

 Roy and another12. 14. The aforesaid case law, unerringly points to the
conclusion that failure to stamp a document, did not

affect the validity of the document. It merely rendered

the document inadmissible in evidence. From the

Judgment of the Pakistan Supreme Court in United

Insurance Company of Pakistan Limited v. Hafiz Muhammad

Siddique13, the following words of Dorab Patel, J., are

enlisted before us: 15. The learned Amicus would point out that stamp duty
is levied with reference to the instrument and not the

transaction. The Stamp Act is a consolidating Act. It 10 AIR 1926 Calcutta 877 11 ILR 1937 1 Calcutta 257 12 AIR 1942 Calcutta 386 13 PLD 1978 SC 279 19 is a fiscal law. Securing revenue was the aim. It cannot

be used to clothe a litigant with an arm of

technicality. He drew our attention to Section 5 of the

Act interdicting judicial intervention. He pointed out Section 8 of the Act, which, after the amendment in the

year 2015, permits disallowing of making a reference

to arbitration, only if the Court found prima facie

that no valid Arbitration Agreement existed. Section

8 , he pointed out, did refer to ‘validity’. He took us

through the decision in SMS Tea Estates (supra), in the

context of the law laid down in SBP (supra), by the

Constitution Bench, the Report of the Law Commission

of India and emphasised the need for minimal

interference and to give full meaning to Section

11(6A) , by ensuring minimal interference. He drew our

attention to the discussion by the high-level

Committee, which preceded the amendment in Section 11 .

He commended for the Court’s acceptance, the view taken

by this Court in Duro Felguera14, wherein, Justice

Kurian Joseph, speaking for the Court inter alia, held

in the post Section 11(6A) scenario, as follows: 14 Ltd. v. Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd. , (2009) 1 SCC
 267 : (2009) 1 SCC (Civ) 117] . This position
 continued till the amendment brought about in
 2015. After the amendment, all that the courts
 need to see is whether an arbitration agreement
 exists—nothing more, nothing less. The
 legislative policy and purpose is essentially
 to minimise the Court's intervention at the
 stage of appointing the arbitrator and this
 intention as incorporated in Section 11 (6-A)
 ought to be respected.” 16. The learned Amicus would point out that non-
stamping did not render the agreement null and void.

In law and in point of fact, an unstamped instrument

bears life. He would point out that Duro Felguera (supra) was approved by a Bench of three learned Judges

in Mayavati Trading (supra). He would attack the

finding in Garware (supra) that an unstamped instrument

was void as being incorrect. He would submit that what

is required in law, after the insertion of sub-Section

(6A) is clear as daylight. The existence of an

Arbitration Agreement, is all that should detain the

Judge in an application under Section 11 . No doubt, he

would point out that there may be cases where the actual 21 situation, which occasioned the Judgment in Vidya

Drolia (supra), may exist. This means that since Section 5 of the Act makes certain disputes non-

arbitrable, it may detain a Judge, who is approached

under Section 11 , to dissuade him from making a

reference. There may arise occasions, which may leave

the Judge with little choice but to decline the

reference. An instance may be an agreement demonstrated

to be made by a minor or a person of unsound mind. Such

exceptional cases apart, the learned Amicus would

request the Court to draw comfort from the thought that

the Arbitrator is fully competent by virtue of the

Doctrine of Kompetenz-Kompetenz, which stands

enshrined in Section 16 of the Act, to deal with all

sorts of objections. Having regard to the clear

legislative intent, discernible from the Report of the

Law Commission and the amendment to Section 11 of the

Act, which finds its echo in the change brought about

in Section 8 of the Act, by the same amendment, the

effort must be to facilitate an unhindered and smooth

passage for an Application seeking reference to

arbitration. The learned Amicus with reference to 22 paragraph-18 of SBP (supra), submits that the Court in Garware (supra) erred in holding that only if the

Arbitrator was appointed, without intervention of the

Court, Section 16 would have full play. It is pointed

out that the Judgment in SBP (supra) will not have

life, after the amendment in 2015. He would also point

out that the Court in Garware (supra) erred in

paragraph-19, when it suggested that the Court was only

giving effect to a mandatory enactment, which purported

to protect the public revenue. While it is correct, it

is pointed out that an agreement enforceable by law is

a contract and Section 2(g) of the Contract Act,

provides that an agreement not enforceable by law, is

said to be void, non-stamping or inadequate stamping

would not make an instrument void. It is pointed out

that the suggestion that, an unstamped document did not

become a contract, and that it was, therefore,

unenforceable in law was incorrect. He also would find

fault with the Court in Garware (supra), when it found

that an unstamped document would not ‘exist’ as a

matter of law. The solution suggested by the learned

Amicus is that an Arbitrator may be appointed and, to 23 allow the Arbitral Tribunal to fulfil its duties under

the Stamp Act . In other words, it is pointed out, in

keeping with the purpose of Section 11(6A) and the need

for minimal interference, as contemplated in Section 5 of the Act, on a prima facie examination as to existence

of an Arbitration Agreement, a reference must be made. He further also would point out that the Judgment of

Justice Sanjiv Khanna in Vidya Drolia (supra) may

require a revisit. With reference to paragraph-31,

wherein Sanjiv Khanna, J., felt bound by the

Constitution Bench Judgment in SBP (supra), it is

pointed out that the learned Judge ignored the

amendments to Sections 8 and 11 brought about by the

amendment in 2015. He would further point out that in

paragraphs-81 to 154, under the caption ‘Who decides

non-arbitrability’, he calls for clarity to be brought.

In paragraph-98, it is pointed out that an error was

occasioned in coming to the conclusion that Sections 8 and 11 were complementary in nature and in exercising

power under the two provisions, the jurisdiction was

complementary. It is pointed out that the views of

Justice Sanjiv Khanna appear to be inconsistent with 24 that of the three-Judge Bench in Mayavati (supra). It

is submitted by the learned Amicus that the

observations of Justice Sanjiv Khanna, in paragraphs-

146, 147.1, 147.9 and paragraph-147.10 may require

recalibration. Paragraphs-146 to 154, it is the stand

of the Amicus Curiae, may have to be fine-tuned.

Learned Amicus would point out that the conclusion of

N.V. Ramana, J. in Paragraphs-237 and 244 may be

endorsed to the extent of inconsistency with that of

Justice Sanjiv Khanna. Coming to N.N. Global (supra),

the learned Amicus, apart from pointing out that

contrary to what was held, viz., that an Arbitration

Agreement was not exigible to stamp duty, it was,

indeed, liable. It is pointed out that the ratio in

paragraphs-22 and 26, would have to be supported. It

is the contention of the learned Amicus that Sections

8 and 11 of the Act could not be equated. The standard

to be applied may be the same, i.e., a prima facie

satisfaction of the existence of the Arbitration

Agreement. In Section 11 , the Court operates as a

substitute of an Appointing Authority. There is only a

narrow scope. It is his case, that in an Application 25 under Section 8 , the scope may be wider as one has to

see whether there was a valid Arbitration Agreement.

It is his submission that unless it is patently void,

‘subject matter arbitrability’ should be left to the

Arbitrator. In a Section 8 Application, the Court

should not undertake the exercise of examining of the

issue relating to the stamp duty, which goes to

admissibility and not jurisdiction. The word

‘existence’ in Section 11(6A) meant legally enforceable

existence and not mere presence in the contract. The

scope of the Court must be circumscribed to narrow the

prima facie examination of: Iranian Offshore Engg. & Construction Co.15 In the said

judgment which is authored by a learned Single Judge,

while dealing with a petition under Section 11 of the

Act, inter alia, held: 15 60. Technicalities like stamps, seals and even
 signatures are red tape that have to be removed
 before the parties can get what they really
 want—an efficient, effective and potentially
 cheap resolution of their dispute. The autonomie de la volonté doctrine is
 enshrined in the policy objectives of the
 United Nations Commission on International
 Trade Law (UNCITRAL) Model Law on International
 Commercial Arbitration, 1985, on which our Arbitration Act is based. (See Preamble to the
 Act.) The courts must implement legislative
 intention. It would be improper and undesirable
 for the courts to add a number of extra
 formalities not envisaged by the legislation.
 The courts' directions should be to achieve the
 legislative intention. 19. He drew our attention to the judgment of this Court
in Commissioner of Income Tax v. Hindustan Bulk

Carriers16 , inter alia, that a Court should, faced with

two interpretations avoid the construction which

reduces the legislation to futility but accept a bolder

construction which will produce an effective result qua

the purpose sought to be achieved. 16 (2003) 3 SCC 57 28 20. Shri Debesh Panda, learned counsel appearing for
the Applicant (Intervention) in I.A.No.199969 of 2022

submitted that the Act constitutes a complete Code.

Since Section 5 of the Act contains a non-obstante

clause which declares that “notwithstanding anything

contained in any other law for the time being in force”

despite the Stamp Act on the principle of minimum

interference except as provided in Part-I of the Act ,

the Court should not be detained by Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. He also reiterates that what is

required under Section 11 is a prima facie

satisfaction. Parliament did not require the

consideration of validity when it enacted Section 11

(6A) . There is a conscious distinction between Sections

8 and 11 . In other words, there is a distinction between

the expressions ‘existence’ and ‘validity’. The width

of powers under Section 16 is untrammelled, it is

contended. E. ANALYSIS 21. In view of the submission made by the learned
Amicus that the Court in N.N. Global (supra) was in

error in proceeding on the basis that the Arbitration 29 Agreement would not be exigible to stamp duty, the very

premise of the Order of Reference would stand removed.

The reformulated question sans the words, ‘which is not

chargeable to payment of stamp duty’, and words,

‘unenforceable or invalid’, would, therefore, be as

follows: 22. Section 2(b) of the Act defines an Arbitration
Agreement to be ‘an agreement referred to in Section

7 ’. 23. Section 5 of the Act declares as follows: - 24. Section 7 of the Act reads as follows: 25. Section 11 deals with Appointment of Arbitrators.
Since we are concerned with the impact of Section

11(6A) , which was inserted by Act 3 of 2016 w.e.f.

23.10.2015, we deem it appropriate to refer to the

same: 31 Suffice it to notice, a Bench of seven learned Judges,

with a lone dissent, in SBP (supra), proceeded to hold 32 that the power exercised under Section 11(6) was a

judicial power and not an administrative power. In the

Majority Judgment, the Court had occasion to consider

the impact of Section 16 of the Act, which incorporates

the Principle of Kompetenz-Kompetenz. The Court held,

inter alia, as follows: (2020) 4 SCC 612 36 28. Shin-Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. v. Aksh Optifibre Ltd. and another18 was a case of international arbitration

arising under Section 45 of the Act. With a Bench of

three learned Judges deciding the case, the majority

with Justice Y.K. Sabharwal dissenting, took the view

that in deciding the question as to whether a reference

must be made to arbitration under Section 45 , the

approach must be to find out whether a prima facie case

is made out and whether it was ‘plainly arguable’ that

an Arbitration Agreement was in existence. The Court,

in other words, took the view that there must be a

prima facie satisfaction that there was an Arbitration

Agreement, which is not null and void, inoperative or

incapable of being performed. Section 45 , it must be

noticed, at the time when the case was decided, read

as follows: 29. It was on the aforesaid statutory text that Justice
B.N. Srikrishna took the view that the finding as to

the existence of the Arbitration Agreement, was to be

a prima facie finding. Justice D.M. Dharmadhikari

agreed with Justice B.N. Srikrishna with certain

additions. 30. In National Insurance Company Limited v. Boghara

Polyfab Private Limited19 , the question, which fell

for consideration before the Bench of two learned

Judges, was as to in what circumstances, a Court would

refuse to refer a dispute relating to quantum to

arbitration even though the contract contemplated a

reference of such a dispute to arbitration. It also

fell for consideration, as to whether the resistance

to the reference on the ground that the applicant under Section 11 of the Act, received the amount and issued

a full and final discharge voucher, which he contented 19 (2009) 1 SCC 267 38 was issued under undue influence, coercion and economic

compulsion, justified the reference. Justice R.V.

Raveendran, speaking for the Court, inter alia,

purported to follow the Judgment in SBP (supra) and

held as follows: (b) Whether there is an arbitration
 agreement and whether the party who has
 applied under Section 11 of the Act, is a
 party to such an agreement. 22.2. The issues (second category) which the
 Chief Justice/his designate may choose to
 decide (or leave them to the decision of the
 Arbitral Tribunal) are: 22.3. The issues (third category) which the
Chief Justice/his designate should leave
exclusively to the Arbitral Tribunal are: 23. It is clear from the scheme of the Act as
explained by this Court in SBP & Co. [(2005) 8
SCC 618] , that in regard to issues falling
under the second category, if raised in any
application under Section 11 of the Act, the
Chief Justice/his designate may decide them,
if necessary, by taking evidence. Alternatively, he may leave those issues open
with a direction to the Arbitral Tribunal to
decide the same. If the Chief Justice or his
designate chooses to examine the issue and
decides it, the Arbitral Tribunal cannot re-
examine the same issue. The Chief Justice/his
designate will, in choosing whether he will
decide such issue or leave it to the Arbitral
Tribunal, be guided by the object of the Act
(that is expediting the arbitration process
with minimum judicial intervention). Where
allegations of forgery/fabrication are made in
regard to the document recording discharge of 40 contract by full and final settlement, it would
 be appropriate if the Chief Justice/his
 designate decides the issue. 24. What is however clear is when a respondent
 contends that the dispute is not arbitrable on
 account of discharge of the contract under a
 settlement agreement or discharge voucher or
 no-claim certificate, and the claimant
 contends that it was obtained by fraud,
 coercion or undue influence, the issue will
 have to be decided either by the Chief
 Justice/his designate in the proceedings under Section 11 of the Act or by the Arbitral
 Tribunal as directed by the order under Section
 11 of the Act. A claim for arbitration cannot
 be rejected merely or solely on the ground that
 a settlement agreement or discharge voucher had
 been executed by the claimant, if its validity
 is disputed by the claimant.” 31. It is to be noticed that, at the time when the

Court rendered SBP (supra) and SMS Tea Estates (supra), Section 11(6) contemplated appointment being made of

an Arbitrator, essentially on the failure of parties

to agree on the appointment or to make the appointment.

It is in the context of the views expressed by the

Courts, as aforesaid, that the Law Commission of India

submitted the Two Hundred and Forty-Sixth Report in

August, 2014. In the said Report, after referring to

the Judgment in SBP (supra) and the views expressed in 41 National Insurance (supra), the Law Commission, inter

alia, submitted the following recommendations: 32. In relation to the nature of intervention,
 the exposition of the law is to be found in
 the decision of the Supreme Court in Shin Etsu
 Chemicals Co. Ltd. v. Aksh Optifibre , (2005) 7
 SCC 234, (in the context of Section 45 of the
 Act), where the Supreme Court has ruled in
 favour of looking at the issues/controversy
 only prima facie. 33. It is in this context, the Commission has
 recommended amendments to Sections 8 and 11 of
 the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. The
 scope of the judicial intervention is only
 restricted to situations where the
 Court/Judicial Authority finds that the
 arbitration agreement does not exist or is null
 and void. In so far as the nature of
 intervention is concerned, it is recommended
 that in the event the Court/Judicial Authority
 is prima facie satisfied against the argument
 challenging the arbitration agreement, it
 shall appoint the arbitrator and/or refer the
 parties to arbitration, as the case may be. The
 amendment envisages that the judicial
 authority shall not refer the parties to
 arbitration only if it finds that there does
 not exist an arbitration agreement or that it 42 is null and void. If the judicial authority is
 of the opinion that prima facie the arbitration
 agreement exists, then it shall refer the
 dispute to arbitration, and leave the existence
 of the arbitration agreement to be finally
 determined by the arbitral tribunal. However,
 if the judicial authority concludes that the
 agreement does not exist, then the conclusion
 will be final and not prima facie. The
 amendment also envisages that there shall be a
 conclusive determination as to whether the
 arbitration agreement is null and void. In the
 event that the judicial authority refers the
 dispute to arbitration and/or appoints an
 arbitrator, Under Sections 8 and 11 respectively, such a decision will be final and
 non-appealable. An appeal can be maintained
 Under Section 37 only in the event of refusal
 to refer parties to arbitration, or refusal to
 appoint an arbitrator.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 32. It is, accordingly, accepting the Report that Section 11(6A) came to be inserted. After having set

out the events, which led to the insertion of Section

11(6A) , we may take the narrative forward. In Duro

Felguera (supra), we have noticed the view taken in

paragraph 59 in an earlier part of this judgment, in

essence, the duty to find out whether an arbitration

agreement exists or not. The learned Judge also made

observations in paragraph 48 wherein after quoting Section 11(6A) he held as follows: 43 33. In Garware (supra) a Bench of two learned Judges
dealt with a case under Section 11(6A) itself and that

too in the context of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 . The contention raised by the appellant was that the

Judgment in SMS Tea Estates (supra) continues to apply

even after the introduction of Section 11(6A) . In other

words, notwithstanding the insertion of Section 11(6A) ,

the procedure contemplated in SMS Tea Estates (supra)

would have to be followed. The Court went on to hold,

inter alia, as noticed by us already and which has been

referred to in N.N. Global (supra): Likewise, in the facts of the present case, it
 is clear that the arbitration Clause that is
 contained in the sub-contract would not "exist"
 as a matter of law until the sub-contract is
 duly stamped, as has been held by us above. The argument that Section 11(6A) deals with
 "existence", as opposed to Section 8 , Section
 16 , and Section 45 , which deal with "validity"
 of an arbitration agreement is answered by this
 Court's understanding of the expression
 "existence" in Hyundai Engg. Case as followed
 by us.” 34. We may notice that in Section 45 of the Act, for
the words ‘unless it finds’, by Act 33 of 2019, the

words ‘unless it prima facie finds’, were substituted. 45 This amounted to a legislative recognition of the

position taken by this Court through the Judgment

rendered by Justice B. N. Srikrishna in SMS Tea Estates (supra). 35. In Mayavati Trading (P) Ltd. v. Pradyuat Deb
Burman20 , a Bench of three learned Judges of this Court

inter alia held as follows: section (4) or sub-section (5) or sub- section (6), shall, notwithstanding any
 judgment, decree or order of any court,
 confine to the examination of the existence
 of an arbitration agreement.”(emphasis
 supplied)From a reading of Section 11 (6-A),
 the intention of the legislature is crystal
 clear i.e. the court should and need only
 look into one aspect—the existence of an
 arbitration agreement. What are the factors
 for deciding as to whether there is an
 arbitration agreement is the next question. The resolution to that is simple—it needs
 to be seen if the agreement contains a
 clause which provides for arbitration
 pertaining to the disputes which have
 arisen between the parties to the
 agreement.***59. The scope of the power
 under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act was
 considerably wide in view of the decisions
 in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd., (2005) 8
 SCC 618 and National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd. , (2009) 1
 SCC 267 : (2009) 1 SCC (Civ) 117. This
 position continued till the amendment
 brought about in 2015. After the amendment,
 all that the courts need to see is whether
 an arbitration agreement exists—nothing
 more, nothing less. The legislative policy
 and purpose is essentially to minimise the
 Court's intervention at the stage of
 appointing the arbitrator and this
 intention as incorporated in Section 11 (6-
 A) ought to be respected.”] . 36. The view taken in Garware (supra) [paragraphs-22
and 29 (supra)], came to be specifically approved by a 47 Bench of three learned Judges in the Judgment reported

in Vidya Drolia (supra). Therein, Justice Sanjiv Khanna

wrote for the Court and Justice N.V. Ramana

supplemented with his own Judgment. The Judgment was

rendered on a Reference dated 28.02.2009 and the

question was, whether landlord-tenant disputes,

governed by provisions of the Transfer of Property Act were arbitrable or not. Apart from the said issue, the

other conundrum was as to who would decide, viz., the

Court at the reference stage, or the Arbitral Tribunal

in the arbitration proceedings. The Court also found

it fit to go into the question as to the scope and

ambit of the jurisdiction at the reference stage. It

is in the course of his Judgement that he made the

following observations in pargraphs-146 and 147, 147.1

of Vidya Drolia (supra): Likewise, in the facts of the present case, it
is clear that the arbitration clause that is
contained in the sub-contract would not “exist”
as a matter of law until the sub-contract is
duly stamped, as has been held by us above. The argument that Section 11 (6-A) deals with
“existence”, as opposed to Section 8 , Section
16 and Section 45 , which deal with “validity”
of an arbitration agreement is answered by this
Court's understanding of the expression
“existence” in Hyundai Engg. case [ United
India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Hyundai Engg. & 50 Construction Co. Ltd. , (2018) 17 SCC 607 : section (3), admit a later plea if it considers
the delay justified. (5) The arbitral tribunal shall decide on a
plea referred to in sub-section (2) or sub- section (3) and, where the arbitral tribunal
takes a decision rejecting the plea, continue
with the arbitral proceedings and make an
arbitral award. 52 (6) A party aggrieved by such an arbitral award
 may make an application for setting aside such
 an arbitral award in accordance with section 34.”

H. THE SCHEME OF THE STAMP ACT 39. Section 2(6) defines the word ‘chargeable’ as
follows: 40. Section 2(11) defines the words ‘duly stamped’ as

follows: 41. Section 2(12) defines the word ‘executed’ with
reference to instruments as meaning ‘signed’. 42. Section 2(14) defines the word ‘instrument’ as
‘including every document, by which any right or 53 liability is or purports to be created, transferred,

limited, extended, extinguished or recorded’. 43. Section 3 deals with the instruments indicated
therein being chargeable with duty, subject to what is

provided by way of exemptions contained in Schedule I. 44. Section 4 contemplates a situation, where there
are several instruments. 45. There are other provisions, which relate to other
transactions. Section 17 deals with the time of

stamping of instruments. Section 17 provides for

instruments executed in India. It declares that such

instruments, chargeable with duty, shall be stamped

before or at the time of execution. Section 31 deals

with adjudication as to proper stamp. The adjudication

is to be made by the Collector. Chapter IV contains Section 33 and the Chapter heading is ‘Instruments not

duly stamped’. In the Stamp Act , Section 33 reads as

follows: (1) Every person having by law or consent of
 parties authority to receive evidence, and
 every person in charge of a pubic office,
 except an officer of police, before whom any 54 instrument, chargeable, in his opinion, with
 duty, is produced or comes in the performance
 of his functions, shall, if it appears to him
 that such instrument is not duly stamped,
 impound the same. (2) For that purpose every such person shall
 examine every instrument so chargeable and so
 produced or coming before him, in order to
 ascertain whether it is stamped with a stamp
 of the value and description required by the
 law in force in India when such instrument was
 executed or first executed: Provided that— (a) nothing herein contained shall be deemed
 to require any Magistrate or Judge of a
 Criminal Court to examine or impound, if he
 does not think fit so to do, any instrument
 coming before him in the course of any
 proceeding other than a proceeding under
 Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure , 1898 (V of 1989); (b) in the case of a Judge of a High Court,
 the duty of examining and impounding any
 instrument under this section may be delegated
 to such officer as the Court appoints in this
 behalf. (3) For the purposes of this section, in cases
 of doubt, — (a) the State Government may determine what
 offices shall be deemed to be public offices; (b) the State Government may determine who
 shall be deemed to be persons in charge of
 public offices.” 46. Next, we must notice Section 35 , which reads as
follows: 55 47. Equally, we must bear in mind Section 36 . It
provides as follows: 48. Section 38 deals with, how instruments, which are
impounded, must be dealt with. It reads as follows: 49. Section 42 is relevant and it reads as follows: - 50. Section 62(1)(b) makes it punishable with fine,
which may extend to Rs.500/- for a person to execute

or sign otherwise than as a witness, any instrument

chargeable with duty, without the same being duly

stamped. The proviso, no doubt, contemplates that if 58 any penalty has been paid under Sections 35 , 40 or 61,

the same shall be reduced. I. HINDUSTAN STEEL LIMITED ANALYSED 51. This Court in Hindustan Steel Limited v. Dilip
Construction Company21 , was dealing with the following

set of facts: 52. We draw the following conclusions, as to what has
been laid down by a Bench of three learned Judges in Hindustan Steel (supra): J. THE INDIAN CONTRACT ACT, 1872 - A SURVEY; DISSECTION OF GARWARE, VIDYA DROLIA AND N.N.
GLOBAL 53. Section 2(g) of the Contract Act provides that an
agreement, not enforceable by law, is said to be void,

whereas, Section 2(h) declares that an agreement

enforceable by law, is a contract. Section 2(j) of the

same Act provides that a contract, which ceases to be

enforceable by law, becomes void, when it ceases to be

enforceable. We may, at once, notice the distinction

between an agreement and a contract. Not every

agreement is a contract. Only those agreements, which

are enforceable, are treated as contracts. The result

of a contract, ceasing to be enforceable, is that, the

contract becomes void. Next, we may notice Section 10 .

It reads as follows: 54. Section 14 defines ‘free consent’ and it reads: Consent is said to be so caused when it would
 not have been given but for the existence of
 such coercion, undue influence, fraud,
 misrepresentation or mistake.” 55. The next part of Section 10 to be noticed is the
expression ‘parties competent to contract’. Section 11 of the Contract Act declares that every person is

competent to contract, according to the law, to which

he is subject, and who is of sound mind and is not

disqualified from contracting by any law to which he

is subject. Since Section 11 requires soundness of mind

for the person to be competent to contract, Section 12 65 articulates as to what is sound mind for the purpose

of the Contract Act . The next part in Section 10 is

that there must be ‘a lawful consideration and a lawful

object’. The said aspect is dealt with in Section 23 .

It reads as follows: 56. The last part of the first limb of Section 10 provides that all agreements are contracts ‘which are

not hereby declared to be void’. Sections 24 to 30 are

the remaining provisions in Chapter II, which deal with

agreements, which are declared to be void within the

meaning of Section 10 . This is apart from Section 20 as we shall notice later. Also, the second part of 66 Section 10 provides that peremptory requirements may

still have to be met to constitute a contract a law. 57. Further, we have already noticed that free consent
is indispensable for making an agreement, a contract,

under Section 10 . Free consent has been defined in Section 14 and it must be read in conjunction with Sections 15 to 18 as Sections 15 to 18 define coercion,

undue influence, fraud and misrepresentation,

respectively. Now, the result of there being coercion,

fraud or misrepresentation in securing the consent of

a party, is provided for in Section 19 of the Contract

Act. The presence of the three elements results in what

is described as a contract voidable at the option of

the party, whose consent was so caused. The effect of

misrepresentation has been dealt with by this Court in

the judgment reported in Ganga Retreat & Towers Ltd.

v. State of Rajasthan22 , as follows: It is not necessary for us to record a clear
finding whether there was a misrepresentation
on the part of the respondents or not. Suffice
it to observe that a voidable contract confers
the right of election on the party affected to
exercise its option to avoid the legal
relations created by the contract or to stand
by the contract and insist on its performance.
However, his election to stand by the contract
once exercised would have the effect of
ratification of the contract with the knowledge
of misrepresentation on the part of the other
party and that would extinguish its power of
avoidance. In the very nature of the right
conferred on the party affected, the law
expects it to exercise its option promptly and
communicate the same to the opposite party; for
until the right of avoidance is exercised, the
contract is valid, and things done thereunder
may not thereafter be undone. 29. A right to rescind for misrepresentation
can be lost in a variety of ways, some
depending on the right of election. A
representee on discovering the truth loses his
right to rescind if once he has elected not to
rescind. But he may lose even before he has
made any election where by reason of his
conduct or other circumstances it would be
unjust or inequitable that he retains the
right. For instance, where third parties have
acquired rights under the contract; again where
it would be unjust to the representor because
it is impossible to restore him to his original
position. Restitutio in integrum is not only a
consequence of rescission, its possibility is
indispensable to the right to rescind. Again, 68 delay in election may make it unjust that the
 right to elect should continue. For this reason
 the right to rescission for misrepresentation
 in general must be promptly exercised. (See
 Indian Contract and Specific Relief Acts,
 Pollock and Mulla, 11th Edn., Vol. I, pp. 269- 70.)”

 Section 19A deals with there being no free consent

on account of the consent of a party being obtained by

undue influence. The said vitiating factor also, does

not result in a void agreement but a voidable contract. Section 14 , defining ‘free consent’, provides that

consent is said to be free, when it is not caused by

mistake, subject to the provisions of Sections 20 , 21 and 22 , after referring to the other four aspects,

which detract from free consent. We notice what Section

20 provides. Section 20 declares that where both the

parties to an agreement are under a mistake as to a

matter of fact essential to the agreement, the

agreement is void. We may observe that this again is a

case of an agreement, which is declared void within the

meaning of Section 10 , apart from Sections 24 to 30 . Section 21 provides that a mistake as to any law in

force in India, would not make the contract voidable.

Thus, while Section 10 sets out the core element for 69 an agreement to become a contract, the effect of non-

conformity varies. Therefore, the lack of competency

and absence of sound mind completely detract from the

formation of a ‘contract’. The absence of free consent

arising from coercion, undue influence,

misrepresentation and even fraud will, however, result

in an agreement which is a ‘contract’ though voidable

(see Sections 19 and 19A of the Contract Act). The

effect of mistake, is again spelt out in Section 22 ,

insofar as it provides that a contract is not voidable

merely because one of the parties consented to the

contract, labouring under a mistake as to a matter of

fact. Section 37 comes under Chapter IV which deals

with performance of contracts and of contracts which

must be performed. Section 37 reads: However, here we must notice the view expressed by the

Privy Council in the Judgement reported in Mahanth

Singh v. U Ba Yi23. Therein the Court, inter alia, held

as follows: transferable occupancy rights, along with other

properties, which were transferable in a registered

mortgage deed and, after referring to Section 23 of the

Contract Act, held, in Dip Narain Singh v. Nageshar

Prasad and another24, inter alia, as follows: As far as the finding in paragraph-28 of N.N.

Global (supra) that the decision in SMS Tea Estates (supra) does not lay down the correct law, when it

holds that an Arbitration Agreement, in an unstamped

commercial contract, cannot be acted upon or is

rendered unenforceable, we are of the view that the

finding in N.N. Global (supra) does not appear to be

correct. A perusal of paragraph-29 would show that the

Court in N.N. Global (supra) proceeded on the basis

that the Arbitration Agreement, being an independent

contract is not chargeable to payment of stamp duty and

it would not invalidate the Arbitration Clause or

render it unenforceable, since it had an independent

existence of its own, cannot hold good in view of the

admitted position before us that an Arbitration

Agreement, in its own right, is exigible to stamp duty. The whole premise of the Court in N.N. Global (supra)

being that the Arbitration Agreement, not being 74 exigible to duty and it having a separate existence,

the commercial contract in which the Arbitration

Agreement is contained, being unstamped, would not

impact the Arbitration Agreement, cannot hold good. The

reasoning in N.N. Global (supra) in paragraph-32, for

disapproving of Garware (supra) in paragraph-22

thereof, that the Arbitration Clause would be non-

existent in law and unenforceable till the stamp duty

in adjudicated and paid on the substantive contract,

is again on the premise that the Arbitration Agreement

is a separate agreement under the Stamp Act , which is

not exigible to stamp duty, which we have found is not

the case in law. In this regard, we may refer to Article

5 of the Stamp Act : 62. While the Stamp Act is a fiscal enactment intended
to raise revenue, it is a law, which is meant to have

teeth. The point of time, at which the stamp duty is

to be paid is expressly provided for in Section 17 of

the Stamp Act. There cannot be any gainsaying, that

call it a fiscal enactment, it is intended that it is

to be implemented with full vigour. The duty of a Court

must be to adopt an interpretation which results in the

enforcement of the law, rather than allowing the law

to be flouted with impunity. Once this principle is 76 borne in mind, the task of the Court becomes less

difficult. The law, as contained in Section 33 read

with Section 35 of the Stamp Act, would result in the

following conclusions: 63. Justice Hrishikesh Roy in paragraph-84 of his draft
Judgement finds that in paragraph-29 in Garware (supra), this Court relied on United India Insurance

Company Limited v. Hyundai Engineering and Construction

Company Limited26 . Our learned Brother further notes in

paragraph-84.1 that in Hyundai (supra), the issue of 25 (2018) 17 SCC 607 26 (2018) 17 SCC 607 81 stamping was not in consideration and the question was

whether the matter fell within excepted matter as the

Arbitration Clause was dependant on whether the insurer

accepted liability. Justice Hrishikesh Roy further

finds that the approach in Garware (supra) in relying

upon Hyundai (supra) was incorrect. This is as Hyundai (supra) has nothing to do with stamping and should have

been distinguished. Our learned Brother notices the

contention of the learned Amicus that Hyundai (supra)

relied on Oriental Insurance Company v. Narbheram Power

and Steel Private Limited27 , in which case, the Court

did not have occasion to interpret Section 11(6)(a) of

the Act. 64. It is true that in Hyundai (supra), this Court was
not dealing with the impact of the Stamp Act . The Court

was dealing rather with the issue as to the effect of

the Clause, in which it was agreed that there would be

no arbitration, if the insurer disputed or did not

accept liability under or irrespective of the policy. In the context of the said Clause, this Court, in 27 (2018) 6 SCC 534 82 Hyundai (supra), went on to hold, inter alia, that the

denial of the plea about its liability by the insurer,

rendered the ‘making of the Arbitration Clause

ineffective and incapable of being enforced, if not

non-existent’. No doubt, in paragraph-29 of Garware (supra), this Court found that ‘likewise in the facts

of the present case, it is clear that the Arbitration

Clause, i.e., contained in the sub-contract, would not

exist as a ‘matter of law’ until the sub-contract is

duly stamped as has been held by us above’. Therefore,

the rationale for finding that an Arbitration Agreement

in an unstamped sub-contract would not exist, was

already furnished in paragraph-22. This Court was only

drawing support from Hyundai (supra) for the

proposition about non-existence of the instrument ‘in

law’. While, Hyundai (supra) did not relate to the Stamp Act , and even, removing the reference to Hyundai (supra), the finding about the non-existence of an

unstamped agreement, would be supportable on the

reasoning that what is contemplated in Section 11(6)(a) is no mere facial existence or existence in fact but

also existence in law. 83 65. This Court in Garware (supra) took the view that
unless the sub contract was stamped, the arbitration

clause contained therein would not exist as a matter

of law. This finding has been rendered apparently on

the basis of the impact of the amendment leading to the

insertion of Section 11(6A) . The Court in Garware (supra) had in fact after setting out the law prior to

the amendment based on the Two Hundred and Forty-Sixth

Report of the Law Commission of India found in

paragraph-19 that the Law Commission Report did not

mention about SMS Tea Estates (supra). It is further

found that it is for the very good reason that the

court does not while deciding an application under Section 11 decide any preliminary issue. The Court

further found that it was giving effect to the

provisions of a mandatory enactment, which enjoins upon

the Court, under the provisions of the Stamp Act , to

first impound the agreement, and if only the penalty

and the duty is paid thereafter, to act upon it. The

Court had also found that it was not possible to

bifurcate the arbitration clause. We would find that

as found by us, being unstamped or insufficiently 84 stamped, the agreement would not be enforceable till

it is ‘validated’ which is permissible only in the

manner provided in the Stamp Act and till then it would

not exist ‘in law’. 66. In the context of Article 136 of the Limitation
Act, 1963 , a Bench of three learned Judges in

Dr. Chiranji Lal (D) by Lrs. v. Hari Das (D) by Lrs.28

had to deal with the argument that a Final Decree for

partition passed on 07.08.1981 became enforceable only

on 25.05.1982, on which day the Decree came to be

engrossed with stamp papers. Under Article 136 , the

period of twelve years begins to run when the ‘Decree

or Order’ becomes ‘enforceable’, inter alia. The Court,

inter alia, held as follows: “23. Such an interpretation is not
 permissible having regard to the object and
 scheme of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 . The
 Stamp Act is a fiscal measure enacted with an
 object to secure revenue for the State on
 certain classes of instruments. It is not
 enacted to arm a litigant with a weapon of
 technicality to meet the case of his
 opponent. The stringent provisions of the Act
 are conceived in the interest of the Revenue.
 Once that object is secured according to law, 28 (2005) 10 SCC 746 85 the party staking his claim on the instrument
will not be defeated on the ground of initial
defect in the instrument ( Hindustan Steel
Ltd. v. Dilip Construction Co. [(1969) 1 SCC
597]). …”

 xxx xxx xxx 25. The engrossment of the final decree in a
suit for partition would relate back to the
date of the decree. The beginning of the
period of limitation for executing such a
decree cannot be made to depend upon date of
the engrossment of such a decree on the stamp
paper. The date of furnishing of stamp paper
is an uncertain act, within the domain,
purview and control of a party. No date or
period is fixed for furnishing stamp papers.
No rule has been shown to us requiring the
Court to call upon or give any time for
furnishing of stamp paper. A party by his own
act of not furnishing stamp paper cannot stop
the running of period of limitation. None can
take advantage of his own wrong. The
proposition that period of limitation would
remain suspended till stamp paper is
furnished and decree engrossed thereupon and
only thereafter the period of twelve years
will begin to run would lead to absurdity. In Yeswant Deorao Deshmukh v. Walchand
Ramchand Kothari [1950 SCC 766 : 1950 SCR 852
: AIR 1951 SC 16] it was said that the payment
of court fee on the amount found due was
entirely in the power of the decree-holder
and there was nothing to prevent him from
paying it then and there; it was a decree
capable of execution from the very date it
was passed. 86 26. Rules of limitation are meant to see
 that parties do not resort to dilatory
 tactics, but seek their remedy promptly. As
 above noted, there is no statutory provision
 prescribing a time-limit for furnishing of
 the stamp paper for engrossing the decree or
 time-limit for engrossment of the decree on
 stamp paper and there is no statutory
 obligation on the court passing the decree to
 direct the parties to furnish the stamp paper
 for engrossing the decree. In the present
 case the Court has not passed an order
 directing the parties to furnish the stamp
 papers for the purpose of engrossing the
 decree. Merely because there is no direction
 by the Court to furnish the stamp papers for
 engrossing of the decree or there is no time-
 limit fixed by law, does not mean that the
 party can furnish stamp papers at its sweet
 will and claim that the period of limitation
 provided under Article 136 of the Act would
 start only thereafter as and when the decree
 is engrossed thereupon. The starting of
 period of limitation for execution of a
 partition decree cannot be made contingent
 upon the engrossment of the decree on the
 stamp paper. …”
 (Emphasis supplied) 67. However, the said view must be understood in the

context of the Law of Limitation standing in the peril

of being wholly defeated by ‘enforceability’ of a

Decree or Order within the meaning of Article 136 ,

being made dependant on an act of volition of a party 87 to pay the requisite stamp duty. Here, in the case

before us, we are concerned with the duty of a Court,

inter alia, under Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act

and its impact on an unstamped or insufficiently

stamped agreement containing an Arbitration Clause.

This is apart from the meaning to be attributed to the

words ‘existence of an Arbitration Agreement’ in Section 11(6A) of the Act. We have explained the

concept of ‘enforceability’ in the context of the Contract Act . What is closer to the facts is the concept

of enforceability or rather the lack of enforceability

resulting in the voidness of the contract in the sense

explained by us. K. THE STAMP ACT – WHETHER A PROCEDURAL LAW? 68. In this context, it will be profitable to notice
the following discussion from the work Salmond on

Jurisprudence, Twelfth Edition. Dealing with Law of

Procedure, it is stated: 69. The Stamp Act , while it may be a fiscal measure,
it may not fall within the fold of procedural law. The

mere fact that Sections 33 and 35 may apply at a stage,

when the person approaches a Court, inter alia, would

not mean that the Stamp Act , providing for a duty on

the executants to stamp the instrument at the point of

time, as declared in Section 17 , and what is more,

penalising a deviation under Section 62 , falls within

the domain of procedural law. Pertinently, we may, in

the Fourteenth Edition of The Indian Contract and

Specific Relief Acts by Pollock and Mulla, note as

follows: 70. We would find that an agreement, which is

unenforceable on account of a substantive law, which

would include the Stamp Act , would not be a contract,

applying Section 2(h) of the Contract Act. It is only

if an agreement is enforceable, that it would become a

contract. It is only a ‘contract’, which would be the

‘Arbitration Agreement’, which is contemplated in Section 11(6A) of the Act. It may not be apposite to

merely describe an unstamped Arbitration Agreement as

a ‘curable defect’. As long it remains an unstamped

instrument, it cannot be taken notice of for any

purpose, as contemplated in Section 35 of the Stamp

Act. It remains unenforceable. Section 17 declares the

time at which an instrument, executed in India, must

be stamped. The said provision contemplates that

stamping of such an instrument must take place before

or at the time of the execution of document. No Public 90 Officer, nor Court nor Arbitrator, can permit any

person to ask them to act upon it or receive it as

evidence. In law, it is bereft of life. It is ‘not

enforceable in law’. In the said sense, it also cannot

exist in law. It would be void. Our view in this regard

that voidness is conflated to unenforceability receives

fortification from Section 2(j) of the Contract Act

which renders a contract which ceases to be enforceable

void. 71. What Section 11(6A) contemplates is a contract and
it is not an agreement which cannot be treated as a

contract. This is despite the use of the words

‘arbitration agreement’ in Section 11(6A) . In other

words, contract must conform to Section 7 of the Act.

It must also, needless to say, fulfil the requirements

of the Contract Act . 72. A voidable contract within the meaning of Section
19 and 19A, undoubtedly stands in stark contrast to

void contracts. However, even in the categories of void

contracts as for instance, Section 20 of the Contract

Act provides that if on a material point, the parties

were mistaken, the contract would be void. If in a 91 given case where this is the contention raised by a

party in a proceeding under Section 11 when the

agreement otherwise satisfies the requirement of a

contract to make it exist as an Arbitration Agreement,

then, the Court would be justified in treating the

agreement as one which exists and leave it open to the

Arbitrator to go into the question, which can be done

after the pleadings are laid and evidence is unfolded

before him. When an Arbitration Agreement is sought to

be brought under the cloud on the basis that it is a

voidable contract which has been avoided, again it may

be a matter where the principle of Kompetenz-Kompetenz

may be apposite and again the court under Section 11 would be justified in proceeding on the basis that an

arbitration agreement exists. The question must

undoubtedly be approached from the standpoint of

advancing the sublime cause of speedy commencement,

progress and conclusion of arbitration. When Parliament

intervened by amending the Act, while in Section 8 , it

has employed the words prima facie, it has used the

word ‘examine’ to ascertain about the existence of an

arbitration agreement in Section 11 (6A) . Likewise, in 92 Section 8 the law giver has used the word ‘valid’ which

is missing in Section 11(6A) . Can it be said that an

invalid agreement can be said to exist in law for the

purpose of Section 11(6A) ? 73. What is an invalid document or agreement? It is an
expression which is associated and often conflated with

the word void. We have already noticed Section 20 as

an instance where a common mistake of the parties on a

material subject renders the agreement void. We have

also noticed that in view of the very nature of the

voidness, a court under Section 11 , may allow the

application under Section 11 when shelter is taken

under Section 20 of the Contract Act by the respondent.

It would turn upon the facts. Coming to invalidity, a

contract would be invalid as for instance if it is

executed by a person of unsound mind. This would

equally be the case where it is found that one of the

parties was a minor. As far as the word ‘invalid’ is

concerned, it has different shades of meaning. In the

context of a contract, we notice the following 93 statement in a judgment of the High Court of Karnataka

reported in Imambi v. Khaja Hussain alias Khajasab29: 74. The aforesaid statement appears apposite in the
context of an instrument which is unstamped or

insufficiently stamped. This is for the reason that on

the one hand as long as it is not stamped or is

insufficiently stamped, it is both liable to be

impounded under Section 33 of the Stamp Act and it

cannot be used as evidence or registered. This is apart

from the unambiguous bar against ‘acting upon’ such an

instrument. On the other hand, if after such an

instrument is impounded and duty and penalty is paid

and a certificate is endorsed upon it within the

meaning of Section 42(2) signals that the instrument 29 AIR 1988 Karnataka 51 94 regains life, the bar in Section 35 of the Stamp Act

is removed permanently. Equally, under Section 36 in

the case of an instrument (not secondary evidence of

the instrument) which is allowed to be let in evidence

without objection, then it would qualify as evidence

founding a right. But this is an exception to the rule

which is found in Section 35 of the Stamp Act. Thus,

an unstamped or insufficiently stamped instrument

represents a case of an agreement which not being

enforceable, in the sense that the sanctions in law

through a civil action is impermissible, is in the said

sense, invalid. It is not invalid or void in the sense

of it being still born or null and void in the sense

that life cannot be poured into it. We may sum up. An

agreement which is unstamped or insufficiently stamped

is not enforceable, as long as it remains in the said

condition. Such an instrument would be void as being

not enforceable [See Section 2(g) of the Contract Act].

It would not in the said sense exist in law. It can be

“validated” by only the process contemplated in Section

33 and other provisions of the Stamp Act . We find the

expression ‘validation’ used in the decision of this 95 Court in Hariom Agrawal v. Prakash Chand Malviya30 which

we shall refer to in greater detail later. This

necessarily means that the court would not view it as

enforceable, and therefore, existing in law. In the

sense explained, it would not be found as ‘not void’

and therefore ‘not invalid’. Thus, in the context of

the Act, the Stamp Act and the Contract Act, we are of

the view that the opinion of this Court in SMS Tea

Estates (supra), in this regard as reiterated in Garware (supra) and approved in Vidya Drolia (supra)

is correct. 75. Section 11(6A) cannot be understood as merely
predicating for an Arbitration Agreement existing

literally. This means that the mere existence of the

arbitration agreement for all intents and purposes on

the exterior purporting to project a contract duly

executed, may in certain situations, be insufficient

under Section 11 . If for reasons such as it being

unstamped when it is clearly required to be stamped,

then it cannot be said to be a case where the agreement 30 (2007) 8 SCC 514 96 exists for it would be no existence in law. While we

agree, the Court must be careful in selecting contracts

where an arbitration agreement which is produced is not

to be acted upon for the reason that it does not exist

in law, all we hold is that an Arbitration Agreement,

which is unstamped, does not exist and an unstamped

contract, containing an Arbitration Agreement, would

not exist as it has no existence in law. L. SECTION 7 OF THE ACT – ITS IMPACT 76. Our learned Brother, Justice Hrishikesh Roy, is
right in noticing that Section 7 of the Act provides

for what an Arbitration Agreement means for the purpose

of Part I. However, with great respect, we express our

inability to agree that a plain reading of Section 7 of the Act, would make it clear that an Arbitration

Agreement can be even non-contractual. For the purpose

of clarity, we may reproduce Section 7(1) of the Act

at this juncture: 77. We are inclined to hold that what Section 7(1) contemplates is an Arbitration Agreement. We are also

inclined to think that what the Law-Giver has intended

to convey is that under the Arbitration Agreement, the

parties must submit disputes, which have arisen or

which may arise between them. The disputes may have

arisen or may arise in respect of a defined legal

relationship. The defined legal relationship, in turn,

can be either contractual or otherwise. Therefore, what

can give rise to disputes can be a legal relationship,

which is non-contractual. The legal relationship may

arise from out of a Statute. It may arise in relation

to a tort but an Arbitration Agreement must always mean

an agreement. It is really a contract which is intended

as an agreement enforceable by law is a contract. An

Arbitration Agreement may be a Clause in an agreement

providing for Arbitration. It may be a separate or a

standalone agreement [ Section 7(2) of the Act]. An

Arbitration Agreement must be in writing [See Section 98 7(3) of the Act]. As to what all are comprehended within

the requirement that the Arbitration Agreement must be

in writing, is set out in Sections 7(4)(a) to 7(4)(c) .

It includes a document which is signed by the parties

[See Section 7(4)(a) ]. An Arbitration Agreement would

be treated as contained in writing, if there is an

exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means

of telecommunications, including, communications

through electronic means which provide a record of the

agreement [See Section 7(4)(b) ]. Next, we may notice

that an Arbitration Agreement will be treated as

contained in writing, if there is an exchange of

statements of claims and defence, in which, the

existence of the agreement is alleged by a party and

not denied by the other [See Section 7(4)(c) ]. Finally, Section 7(5) contemplates an Arbitration Agreement by

incorporation, viz., a reference in a contract to a

document containing an Arbitration Clause, would

constitute an Arbitration Agreement, if the contract

is in writing and the reference is such as to make that

Arbitration Clause part of the contract. The true scope

of Section 7(5) of the Act has been elaborately 99 considered in M.R. Engineers & Contractors Private

Limited v. Som Datt Builders Limited31 . 78. Section 3(a) of the Stamp Act, no doubt,

contemplates that every instrument mentioned in the

Schedule, which, not having been previously executed

by any person, is executed in India on or after the

first day of July, 1899, is chargeable with duty.

Clause (c) of Section 3 also contemplates ‘execution’

of a document out of India, being chargeable with duty. Section 17 of the Stamp Act also contemplates that in

respect of documents executed in India, they shall be

stamped before or at the time of execution. Justice

Hrishikesh Roy would reason that an Arbitration

Agreement, as defined in Section 7 of the Act, need not

be an instrument chargeable to stamp duty as stamp duty

is payable under the Stamp Act only on instruments,

which are executed. The word ‘executed’ has been

defined in the Stamp Act as meaning ‘signed’. 79. Section 7(3)(b) of the Act contemplates that an
exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means 31 (2009) 7 SCC 696 100 of telecommunication, including communication through

electronic means, which provide a record of the

agreement, would constitute an Arbitration Agreement

in writing within the meaning of Section 7(3) of the

Act. We may notice that the proviso (c) to Section 35 of the Stamp Act reads as follows: 80. Thus, the Stamp Act does contemplate a contract or
agreement being formed through correspondence through

two or more letters. It then suffices that any one of

the letters bears the proper stamp. Even proceeding on

the basis that an Arbitration Agreement is contained

in letters and it is signed and, therefore, executed

within the meaning of the Stamp Act , then, it would

fall within the four corners of Sections 33 and 35 of

the Stamp Act. 81. We do notice that a Bench of two learned Judges
have, in the Judgment reported in Govind Rubber Limited 101 v. Louids Dreyfus Commodities Asia Private Limited32 ,

had this to say about the need for an Arbitration

Agreement being signed: In the present day of e-commerce, in cases
 of internet purchases, tele purchases,
 ticket booking on internet and in standard
 forms of contract, terms and conditions are
 agreed upon. In such agreements, if the
 identity of the parties is established, and
 there is a record of agreement it becomes
 an arbitration agreement if there is an
 arbitration clause showing ad idem between
 the parties. Therefore, signature is not a
 formal requirement under Section 7(4)(b) or
 7(4)(c) or under Section 7(5) of the Act.” 82. When it comes to Section 7(4)(c) , what is

constituted as an Arbitration Agreement as being in

writing is an exchange of Statement of Claims and

Defence, wherein the existence of an agreement is

alleged by one party and not denied by another. There

must however be ‘an agreement’, the allegation of the

existence of which remains unrefuted. Since, Section

7(1) defines an arbitration agreement to be one, under

which, parties submit ‘all’ or ‘certain disputes’,

which have arisen or will arise, such an agreement must

be alleged to exist and the allegation must remain

undenied. The formation of such an agreement must

necessarily be tested with reference to the 103 indispensable requirements, such as, competency to

contract and presence of sound mind. 83. All that we are holding is, an Arbitration

Agreement must satisfy the requirements in Section 7(1) and, therefore, it must be an agreement. Sans an

agreement, there cannot be a reference to arbitration.

While Justice Hrishikesh Roy is right in holding that Section 10 of the Contract Act recognises oral

agreements and that a written agreement is a sine qua

non for a valid Arbitration Agreement, Section 10 of

the Contract Act, it must be noticed, in the second

part, provides that nothing contained in the first

part, would affect any law, which, inter alia, requires

that any contract is required to be made in writing. Section 7(3) of the Act which insists that an

arbitration agreement must be in writing harmonises

with Section 10 of the Contract Act. 84. We would think that whenever an Arbitration

Agreement, as defined in Section 7 of the Act, also

attracts stamp duty under the Stamp Act , then, the

provisions of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act would

come into play. As held in SMS Tea Estates Private 104 Limited (supra), if an Arbitration Clause constitutes

the Arbitration Agreement and the instrument, viz., the

instrument or contract, in which the Arbitration Clause

is contained, is unstamped, when it is otherwise

exigible to stamp duty, then, the provisions of Section

33 as also Section 35 of the Stamp Act would operate.

The court acting under Section (11) of the Act is not

free to disregard their mandate. 85. An Arbitration Agreement, may be a Clause in an
instrument, which attracts stamp duty. In such a case,

the Court, acting under Section 11 , is bound to act

under Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, if the

instrument is not stamped or insufficiently stamped.

If an Arbitration Agreement is a standalone agreement

and which attracts duty under the Stamp Act , then also,

the same position obtains. M. THE ALTERNATIVE PERSPECTIVE 86. In Garware (supra), the Court referred to

paragraph-59 of Duro Felguera (supra) to find that, the

Court in the said case, proceeded on the basis that the

mischief that was sought to be remedied by the 105 insertion of Section 11(6A) , was as contained in SBP

(supra) and National Insurance (supra). We must,

however, notice that in paragraph-18 of Garware (supra), the Court referred to paragraph-12 of SBP

(supra), which we have already noticed and, thereafter,

the Court went on to hold, inter alia, as follows: However, the Stamp Act, containing no such
 provision as is contained in Section 49 of the
 Registration Act, 1908, has been held by the
 said judgment to apply to the agreement or
 conveyance as a whole, which would include the
 arbitration clause contained therein. It is
 clear, therefore, that the introduction of Section 11 (6-A) does not, in any manner, deal
 with or get over the basis of the judgment
 in SMS Tea Estates [SMS Tea Estates (P)
 Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P) Ltd. , (2011) 14
 SCC 66 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 777] , which
 continues to apply even after the amendment of Section 11 (6-A).”
 (Emphasis supplied) 87. This is apart from, the Court after referring to Sections 2(g) and 2(h) of the Contract Act, going on

to make the observations at paragraph-22 and, finally,

paragraph-29 which we have noticed. In fact, in

paragraph-30, the Court went on to disapprove various

Judgments of High Courts, which included the Full Bench

of the High Court of Bombay in Gautam Landscapes Pvt. 107 Limited v. Shailesh S. Shah33 , insofar as it related to

the High Court holding that after the insertion of Section 11(6A) of the Act, the Court, acting under Section 11(6) , need not be detained by the aspect

relating to the document not being stamped. 88. Section 11(6A) of the Act, no doubt, contemplated
constraining the court to not stray into areas which

were permissible under the earlier regime which was set

out in SBP (supra) as explained in National Insurance (supra). It must be understood that when the law giver

changes the law it would be indeed a wise approach and

fully commended in law to ascertain the mischief which

the legislature was dealing with. Equally, the court

would naturally enquire as to what is the relief

against the mischief which the law giver has provided.

The mischief as we understand was the perception that

courts were overstepping the limits of minimal

interference in consonance with the principle enshrined

in Section 5 of the Act. In other words, if we may bear

in mind paragraphs 22.2 and 22.3 of National Insurance 33 (2019) SCC OnLine Bom 563 108 Company (supra) it would appear that they fell outside

of the question relating to the existence of an

arbitration agreement. The Stamp Act is a law passed

by the same law-giver. It is a law which is meant to

have life, and therefore, to be enforced. The

legislature would not have possibly contemplated, when

it incorporated Section 11(6A) , that the courts must

turn a blind eye to the injunction of a law and allow

it to be defeated. This to our minds involves adopting

an interpretation which would ignore the principle of

harmonious construction of statutes. 89. As far as the conclusion in paragraph 55 of Great
Offshore Ltd. (supra) that since Section 7 of the Act

does not stipulate for stamping, stamping may not be

required under the Stamp Act , does not commend itself

to us as the correct position in law. We are equally

unable to subscribe to the view that stamp duty, inter

alia, should be treated as a ‘technicality’. We are

also of the view that the view taken by the learned

Single Judge otherwise in the said paragraph again does

not represent the correct position. 109 90. Section 5 no doubt provides for a non-obstante
clause. It provides against judicial interference

except as provided in the Act. The non-obstante clause

purports to proclaim so despite the presence of any law

which may provide for interference otherwise. However,

this does not mean that the operation of the Stamp Act ,

in particular, Sections 33 and 35 would not have any

play. We are of the clear view that the purport of Section 5 is not to take away the effect of Sections

33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. The Court under Section 11 purporting to give effect to Sections 33 and 35 cannot

be accused of judicial interference contrary to Section

5 of the Act. 91. It is nobody’s case that if the contract which
contains the arbitration clause is an instrument within

the meaning of the Stamp Act is produced before the

court under Section 11 of the Act, and it is found to

be unstamped on the face of it, that Sections 33 and 35 and other allied provisions of the Stamp Act would

have no play. In fact, in N.N. Global (supra), this

Court directed the work order (the contract containing

the arbitration clause) to be impounded. Section 11 110 (6A) of the Act which requires the court to examine

whether an arbitration agreement exists, was the need

realized and articulated by Parliament to curb the

court from straying into other areas highlighted in National Insurance (supra). In other words, proceeding

on the basis that an ‘unstamped agreement’ exists, it

would not deflect the court of its statutory duty to

follow the regime under Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp

Act. N. THE AMICUS CURIE SPRINGS A SURPRISE 92. This Court pointed out to the existence of the
Scheme prepared by the Supreme Court in exercise of the

powers under Section 11(10) . Paragraph 2(a) of the

Scheme, inter alia, reads as follows: 93. Thereafter, when the curtains were about to be rung
down on the hearing, the learned Amicus brought the

following aspect to notice of the Court. He pointed out 111 that under the Scheme, the applicant need produce only

the certified copy of the Arbitration Agreement. He

would draw support from the Judgments of this Court in Jupudi Kesava Rao v. Pulavarthi Venkata Subbarao and

others34 and Hariom Agrawal (supra) to contend that even

applying Sections 33 and 35 by the Court at the stage

of Section 11 of the Act, the certified copy cannot be

impounded. He, thus, sought to take the wind out of the

sail of the appellant’s contention, by contending that

in most of the cases, since certified copies are alone

being filed and they cannot be impounded, and as after

reference to the Arbitrator based on the certified

copy, the Arbitrator is competent, in law, under Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act to do the needful,

this Court may bear this aspect in mind. Thereupon,

Shri Gagan Sanghi, would point out that even in the

certified copy, the factum of payment of the stamp duty

must be entered. The said aspect, in fact, engaged the

attention of this Court in SMS Tea Estates (supra). 34 (1971) 1 SCC 545 112 94. Reference has been made to Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra), to contend that a copy of an instrument,

cannot be treated as an instrument under the Stamp Act for the purpose of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act.

A copy cannot be impounded under Section 33 , it is

pointed out. Therefore, Section 33 , which mandates

impounding of an unstamped instrument, would not apply

to a certified copy, which is permitted to be produced

under the Scheme. Reliance has been placed on

paragraphs-13 and 14 of Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra): There is no scope for inclusion of a copy of a
 document as an instrument for the purpose of
 the Stamp Act . 14. If Section 35 only deals with original
 instruments and not copies Section 36 cannot
 be so interpreted as to allow secondary
 evidence of an instrument to have its benefit.
 The words “an instrument” in Section 36 must
 have the same meaning as that in Section 35 . The legislature only relented from the strict
 provisions of Section 35 in cases where the
 original instrument was admitted in evidence
 without objection at the initial stage of a
 suit or proceeding. In other words, although
 the objection is based on the insufficiency of
 the stamp affixed to the document, a party who
 has a right to object to the reception of it
 must do so when the document is first tendered.
 Once the time for raising objection to the
 admission of the documentary evidence is
 passed, no objection based on the same ground
 can be raised at a later stage. But this in no
 way extends the applicability of Section 36 to
 secondary evidence adduced or sought to be
 adduced in proof of the contents of a document
 which is unstamped or insufficiently stamped.”

 (Emphasis supplied) 95. In Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra), the appellant relied
on oral evidence to prove the lease document which was

insufficiently stamped. The High Court held that oral 114 evidence could not be acted upon to prove the lease

agreement. The main question, which arose was, whether

secondary evidence of a written agreement to grant a

lease, was barred under Sections 35 and 36 of the Stamp

Act. The Court went on to find, on a survey of the Evidence Act that it did not purport to deal with

admissibility of documents in evidence, which were

required to be stamped under the Stamp Act . It is

thereafter that the Court went on to hold what was done

in paragraphs-13 and 14 of the Judgment. While dealing

with Section 35 of the Act, the Court, inter alia, held

that ‘the second limb of Section 35 of the Stamp Act,

which related to acting upon the instrument, would

obviously shut out any secondary evidence of such

instrument, for allowing such evidence to be let in,

when the original, admittedly chargeable with duty, was

not stamped or insufficiently stamped, would tantamount

to the document being acted upon by the person having

by law or Authority, to receive evidence. Proviso (a)

is only applicable, it was found when the original

instrument is actually before the Court of Law and the

deficiency in stamp with penalty is paid by the party 115 seeking to rely upon the document. It is, thereafter,

the Court observed that ‘there is no scope for

inclusion of a copy of a document as an instrument for

the purpose of the Stamp Act ’. The Court also, in

paragraph-14, found that Section 36 of the Stamp Act,

which precludes a party, who did not object to the

admission of an unstamped or insufficiently stamped

document, in evidence, from raising the objection

later, did not apply to secondary evidence. 96. In Hariom Agrawal (supra), a Bench of three learned
Judges, was dealing with the impugned Order of the High

Court, by which, it held that a photocopy of the

original agreement, could neither be impounded nor

could it be accepted as secondary evidence. It was

after following Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra), the Court

held as follows: 97. The submission appears to be that the Scheme
provides for a certified copy of the Arbitration

Agreement and if the Arbitration Agreement is a part

of the contract, which is either not stamped or

insufficiently stamped and, since, it cannot be

impounded under Section 33 of the Stamp Act, cannot be

validated. All that the Court has to look into is,

whether an Arbitration Agreement exists. 98. It is, no doubt, true that under the Scheme, an
applicant can produce, either the Original or the

certified copy. What is a certified copy? A certified

copy is to be understood in the light of Section 76 of

the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (hereinafter referred to

as, ‘the Evidence Act ’, for short). It reads as

follows: 99. This necessarily would take us to Section 74 of
the Evidence Act, which defines what is a ‘public

document’. Section 74 reads as follows: “74. Public documents. —The following
 documents are public documents: —
 (1) Documents forming the acts, or records of
 the acts— (i) of the sovereign authority, (ii) of official bodies and tribunals, and 118 (iii) of public officers, legislative,
 judicial and executive, of any part of India
 or of the Commonwealth, or of a foreign
 country; of any part of India or of the
 Commonwealth, or of a foreign country; (2) Public records kept in any State of private
 documents.” 100. We have already noticed that Section 35 of the

Stamp Act interdicts the registration of an instrument

unless it is duly stamped. 101. The interplay of the Evidence Act, the Stamp

Act and the Registration Act is to be understood as

follows: This again is for the reason that a certified copy is 121 a true copy of the document. The Officer, who certifies

the document, must be the person having the custody of

the public document. The public document in the case

of public records of private documents, in the case of

a registered document, would necessarily involve the

document being stamped before registration. The Scheme

framed by the Chief Justice, permits the production of

a duly certified copy to relieve the party of the burden

of producing the original but what is contemplated is

only the production of the certified copy, which duly

discloses the fact of payment of stamp duty. It is

worthwhile to also notice paragraph-5 of the Scheme.

It reads: 102. Therefore, it is not as if the Judge dealing

with an Application under Section 11 of the Act, is

bereft of authority to seek information or

clarification so as to be satisfied that the certified 122 copy satisfies the requirement as laid down in SMS Tea

Estates (supra) that stamp duty payable has been paid. 103. We have already indicated the scheme of the Evidence Act in so far as it relates to the admission

of secondary evidence. We have also found that the

Scheme contemplates, without anything more, the

production of a form of secondary evidence, viz., a

certified copy of the Arbitration Agreement. Even if

an Arbitration Agreement between the two parties

becomes a public document under Section 74(c) of the

Evidence Act on the basis that it is a public record,

other than as being a registered document and on the

basis that, it was produced before any public office

and it became a public record of a private document,

in keeping with the mandate of Section 33 of the Stamp

Act and other connected provisions, such a document

again would have been impounded, unless it was

originally stamped as per law. In other words, if a

certified copy is produced, along with a request under Section 11 of the Act, to be treated as a document, on

which the Application under Section 11 could be

maintained, it must necessarily comply with the 123 requirement that it declares the stamp, which has been

paid in regard to the original. 104. The production of a copy of an instrument, may

not lead to the impounding of the copy as Section 33 ,

which mandates impounding, applies only in regard to

the original, which alone is treated as an instrument

under Section 2(14) of the Stamp Act. We must

understand the context of the ruling in Jupudi Kesava

Rao (supra) and Hariom Agrawal (supra) to be that a

party cannot ‘validate’ an instrument by producing a

copy and by getting it impounded and paying the duty

and penalty. In fact, as observed in paragraph-13 of Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra), the Court cannot be invited

to act upon a copy of an instrument, which is

insufficiently stamped. Thus, such a copy, while it

cannot be impounded under Section 33 , it cannot also

be acted upon under Section 35 . O. SECTIONS 33 AND 35 OF THE STAMP ACT; THE COURT
OR THE ARBITRATOR TO ACT? 105. There was considerable debate at the Bar as

regards the wisdom in relegating the issue relating to

payment of stamp duty to the Arbitrator. On the one 124 hand, the learned Amicus, supported by learned Counsel

for the Respondent, would canvass that, bearing in mind

the object of the Act, and in particular, Section 5 of

the Act, prohibiting judicial interference, except as

provided, questions relating to non-payment of stamp

duty and the amount to be paid, are capable of being

dealt with by the Arbitrator. The concern of the Court,

that the interest of the Revenue is protected, is best

balanced with the overwhelming need to fastrack the

arbitration proceedings and they are best harmonised

by ensuring that the Arbitrator will look into the

matter and ensure that the interest of the Revenue is

not jeopardised. On the other hand, the appellant and

the intervener would point out that the Court cannot

ignore the mandate of the law contained in Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act and a view taken by this Court,

on the said lines, will only encourage evasion of the

law, whereas, if the Court follows the mandate of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act and adheres to what

has been laid down in Garware (supra), not only would

the law be observed, but, when the matter reaches the

Arbitrator, the issue would have been given the 125 quietus. Such a view would also encourage persons

falling in line with the Stamp Act . 106. We see merit in the contention of the

appellant. Apart from the Court acting in consonance

with the law, when it adheres to Sections 33 and 35 of

the Stamp Act, where it applies, in our view, under the

watchful gaze of the Court, be it the High Court or the

Supreme Court, the issue relating to stamp duty, in a

case where there is no stamp duty paid, is best

resolved. 107. The question would arise as follows: Proceeding on the basis, in fact, that a contract,

 containing the Arbitration Agreement, which is not

 duly stamped, could be said to exist in law, it

 would still not dislodge the duty cast on the Court

 under Section 11 to follow the mandate of Sections

 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. In other words, on the

 aforesaid view, following the command under Section 11(6A) , could not detract from, the Court

 also at the same time, following the equally

 binding mandate contained in the Stamp Act .

iii. The question further arises, as to whether, in view

 of the power of the Court under Section 11 , to find

 only prima facie, the existence of the Arbitration

 Agreement, it would enable the Court to make a

 Reference and appointment and relegate the issue

 of impounding of the document to the Arbitrator.

iv. Any shirking of the statutory duty by the Court

 under Section 11 to act in tune with the peremptory

 statutory dictate of the Stamp Act , appears to us

 unjustifiable. Such abdication of its plain duty

 is neither contemplated by the Law-Giver nor would 128 it be justifiable as causing the breach of Section

 11(6A) . v. The view that cases under Section 11 of the Act

 would consume more time and hinder the timely

 progress of arbitration and that the matter must

 be postponed so that the Arbitrator will more

 suitably deal with it, does not appeal to us. While

 the Stamp Act is primarily intended to collect

 revenue and it is not intended to arm a litigant

 to raise ‘technical pleas’, this would hardly

 furnish justification for the Court to ignore the

 voice of the Legislature couched in unambiguous

 terms. We find that the view expressed in SMS Tea

 Estates (supra), being reiterated, despite the

 insertion of Section 11(6A) , would promote the

 object of the Stamp Act and yet be reconcilable

 with the mandate of Section 11(6A) . We may,

 however, qualify what we have said with a caveat.

 There may be cases, where no stamp duty is seen

 paid. It paves the way for the unambiguous

 discharge of duty under Sections 33 and 35 of the

 Stamp Act. There may, however, be cases, where it 129 may be stamped but the objection is taken by the

 party that it is not duly stamped. In such cases,

 no doubt, it is ordinarily the duty of the Court

 to examine the matter with reference to the duty

 under Section 33(2) . If the claim that it is

 insufficiently stamped, appears to the Court to be

 on the face of it, wholly without foundation, it

 may make the Reference on the basis of the

 existence of an Arbitration Agreement otherwise

 and then leave it open to the Arbitrator to

 exercise the power under Section 33 , should it

 become necessary. This approach does justice to

 the word ‘examine’ in Section 33(2) of the Stamp

 Act while not ignoring the command of Section

 11(6A) of the Act. It is not to be confused with

 the duty to examine prima facie whether an

 ‘Arbitration Agreement’ exists under Section

 11(6A) of the Act, but is related to the duty to

 examine the matter under Section 33(2) of the Stamp

 Act. vi. Under the Evidence Act , production of only the

 original document is permissible by way of evidence 130 (See Section 62 ). However, secondary evidence is

permissible under Section 63 and certified copies

are treated as secondary evidence. Under the

Scheme, in a proceeding under Section 11 , without

following the procedure in the Evidence Act ,

secondary evidence, in the form of certified copy,

is permitted. It may be true that since certified

copies are permitted to maintain an Application

under Section 11 and, in law, impounding cannot be

done of a certified copy, as it is not an

instrument, the duty of the Court to examine the

matter from the point of view of Section 33 of the

Stamp Act, may not exist as such. However, we have

explained what constitutes a certified copy, and

that, in view of SMS Tea Estates (supra), the stamp

duty paid must be indicated in the certified copy

and, in appropriate case, the Court has power,

under paragraph-5 of the Scheme, to call for

information. It becomes the duty of the Court, in

cases, where a certified copy is produced, to be

satisfied that the production of the certified

copy, fulfils the requirement in law. As already 131 noticed, while the certified copy which does not

 show that the stamp duty is paid cannot be

 impounded under Section 33 , it cannot be acted upon

 under Section 35 of the Stamp Act. P. ARBITRATION AGREEMENT, A DISTINCT AGREEMENT
AND ITS IMPACT? i. The last question, which remains is, whether, if

 the contract, in which, the Arbitration Clause is

 located, is unstamped but the Arbitration Clause

 is stamped, the Court can ignore the fact that the

 instrument containing in the Contract is

 unstamped. In the first place, such an eventuality

 cannot arise. This for the reason that unless there

 is misrepresentation or a fraud played, it is

 incomprehensible as to how, when the contract is

 produced, it will not be dealt with under Section

 33 of the Stamp Act among other provisions. ii. The learned Amicus, in fact, points out that

 invariably the Arbitration Agreement is contained

 as a clause in a larger agreement. The contract

 would consist of the document containing the

 Arbitration Agreement. This brings us to the 132 question as to whether the Arbitration Agreement

 can be treated as a separate contract, and even if

 the main contract is not stamped, it suffices if

 the Arbitration Agreement alone is stamped.

iii. In N.N. Global (supra), in fact, the Court

 proceeded to impound the main contract which was

 the Work Order. The Doctrine of the Arbitration

 Agreement being a distinct and a separate

 agreement, is well-established. The Doctrine of Kompetenz-Kompetenz has been

 enshrined in Section 16 of the Act. Section 16 ,

 undoubtedly, articulates the principle that the

 Arbitral Tribunal may rule on its jurisdiction

 including objections relating to the validity of

 the Arbitration Agreement and its very existence

 and, for that purpose, an Arbitration Clause

 forming part of the contract, is to be treated as

 an agreement independent from the other terms of

 the contract. Equally, Section 16(1)(b) declares

 that despite the Tribunal finding that the contract

 was null and void, it would not invalidate the

 Arbitration Clause. The evolution of the principle 133 that an Arbitration Agreement is a separate and

distinct agreement from the contract, would

indicate that it would have no play in the context

of the duty of a Court, within the meaning of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, to act in

consonance therewith. The efficacy of the

Arbitration Clause in a contract is preserved so

that the extinguishing of the contractual

obligations by termination or non-performance or

alleged performance, does not deprive the parties

of their rights and the power of the Arbitrator to

adjudicate on disputes, which, otherwise fall

within the ambit of the Arbitration Clause. The underlying principle behind treating the

Arbitration Agreement as a separate agreement is

to create a mechanism, which survives the contract

so that disputes, falling within the Arbitration

Agreement, are resolved. Thus, the rescission of

the main contract would not result in the death of

the Arbitration Clause. We agree that the

Arbitration Clause may be a collateral term [See 134 Heyman v. Darwins Limited35]. The Arbitration

 Agreement, it is found in N.N. Global (supra),

 ‘exists and can be acted upon, irrespective of

 whether the main substantive contract is valid or

 not’ [See paragraph-4.10 of N.N. Global (supra)]. It may be true that, ordinarily, the invalidity of

 the main agreement may not affect the Arbitration

 Clause [See paragraph-4.12 of N.N. Global (supra)]. However, proceeding on the basis that an

 Arbitration Agreement contained as a clause in the

 main contract, is a separate agreement and it can

 exist independently, the fallacy behind such a line

 of argument in the context of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, can be demonstrated as follows: 108. As found in SMS Tea Estates (supra), in view

of the fact that there is a bar to the use of an

instrument, which is not stamped or insufficiently

stamped for any purpose (unlike Section 49 of the

Registration Act, which allows an unregistered document

to be used to prove a collateral transaction), an

unstamped instrument, in which, an Arbitration Clause

is part of, cannot be allowed to be used, as it would

be allowing the instrument to be used to establish a

collateral transaction. This is proceeding on the basis 136 that an Arbitration Agreement is a collateral term and

may have a distinct existence, separate from the main

agreement. Q. CONCLUSIONS 109. The view taken in SMS Tea Estates (supra) as

followed in Garware (supra) and by the Bench in

Dharmaratnakara Rai Bahadur Arcot Narainswamy Mudaliar

Chattram and other Charities v. Bhaskar Raju and

Brothers and others36 as to the effect of an unstamped

contract containing an Arbitration Agreement and the

steps to be taken by the Court, represent the correct

position in law as explained by us hereinbefore. N.N.

Global (supra) was wrongly decided, when it held to the

contrary and overruled SMS Tea Estates (supra) and Garware (supra). 110. An instrument, which is exigible to stamp

duty, may contain an Arbitration Clause and which is

not stamped, cannot be said to be a contract, which is

enforceable in law within the meaning of Section 2(h) 36 (2020) 4 SCC 612 137 of the Contract Act and is not enforceable under Section 2(g) of the Contract Act. An unstamped

instrument, when it is required to be stamped, being

not a contract and not enforceable in law, cannot,

therefore, exist in law. Therefore, we approve of

paragraphs-22 and 29 of Garware (supra). To this

extent, we also approve of Vidya Drolia (supra),

insofar as the reasoning in paragraphs-22 and 29 of Garware (supra) is approved. 111. The true intention behind the insertion of Section 11(6A) in the Act was to confine the Court,

acting under Section 11 , to examine and ascertain about

the existence of an Arbitration Agreement. 112. The Scheme permits the Court, under Section 11 of the Act, acting on the basis of the original

agreement or on a certified copy. The certified copy

must, however, clearly indicate the stamp duty paid as

held in SMS Tea Estates (supra). If it does not do so,

the Court should not act on such a certified copy. 113. If the original of the instrument is produced

and it is unstamped, the Court, acting under Section 138 11 , is duty-bound to act under Section 33 of the Stamp

Act as explained hereinbefore. When it does so,

needless to say, the other provisions, which, in the

case of the payment of the duty and penalty would

culminate in the certificate under Section 42(2) of the

Stamp Act, would also apply. When such a stage arises,

the Court will be free to process the Application as

per law. 114. An Arbitration Agreement, within the meaning

of Section 7 of the Act, which attracts stamp duty and

which is not stamped or insufficiently stamped, cannot

be acted upon, in view of Section 35 of the Stamp Act,

unless following impounding and payment of the

requisite duty, necessary certificate is provided under Section 42 of the Stamp Act. 115. We further hold that the provisions of Sections 33 and the bar under Section 35 of the Stamp

Act, applicable to instruments chargeable to stamp duty

under Section 3 read with the Schedule to the Stamp

Act , would render the Arbitration Agreement contained

in such instrument as being non-existent in law unless

the instrument is validated under the Stamp Act . 139 116. In a given case, the Court has power under

paragraph-5 of the Scheme, to seek information from a

party, even in regard to stamp duty. 117. We make it clear that we have not pronounced

on the matter with reference to Section 9 of the Act.

The reference to the Constitution Bench shall stand

answered accordingly. 118. We record our deep sense of appreciation for

the efforts put in by Shri Gourab Banerji, learned

senior counsel who has ably assisted this Court as

Amicus. …………………………………………J.
 [K.M. JOSEPH]

 …………………………………………J.
 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE]

NEW DELHI; DATED: APRIL 25, 2023. 140 1 REPORTABLE

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

 CIVIL APPEAL NO(S). 3802-3803 OF 2020

M/S. N.N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE
PRIVATE LIMITED ….APPELLANT(S)

 VERSUS

M/S INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. ….RESPONDENT(S)

 JUDGMENT

Rastogi, J. 1899 - Discussions on Provisions of Indian
 Stamp Act, 1899 (Chapter IV- Sections 33- 48 , More specifically Sections 33 , 35 , 36 , 38 , 40 , 42 )

IV. Historical Background of Arbitration in 31-37
 India

V. Intent behind incorporation of Section 37-41 11(6A) of the Arbitration and Conciliation
 Act,1996

VI. Scope of Section 11 (6A) w.r.t. Section 8 , 42-53 Section 16 , and Section 45 of the
 Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996

VII. Limited Examination by Court under 54-55 Section 11(6A) of the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act, 1996

VIII. Interpretation of “Existence of Arbitration 55-57
 Agreement”

IX. Clarification on Stamping of Arbitration 57-59
 Agreement

X. Answer to the Reference 59-61 3 I. Reference 1. This case deals with the larger question regarding the scope and

ambit to which there should be an intervention of courts at the pre-

referral stage in the working of arbitration contracts. 2. A three-Judge Bench of this Court in M/s. N.N. Global

Mercantile Private Limited v. M/s. Indo Unique Flame Limited

and Others1 has doubted the correctness of the view expressed in

paras 146 and 147.1 of the coordinate three-Judge Bench of this

Court in Vidya Drolia and Others v. Durga Trading Corporation2 and referred the matter to be settled authoritatively by the

Constitution Bench of this Court. 3. The reference which has been made to settle authoritatively by

the Constitution Bench is referred as under: 4. It is necessary to give background facts for better

appreciation of the reference made for our consideration.

II. Conflicting Judgments 5. In the case of SMS Tea Estates Private Limited v. Chandmari

Tea Company Private Limited,3 a two-Judge Bench of this Court

was considering the issue in a pre-2015 amendment regime of

whether an arbitration agreement in an unregistered and unstamped

lease deed, which required compulsory registration under the Registration Act, 1908 (hereinafter being referred to as the “Act 1908”)

was valid and enforceable. It was held as follows: 6. The above decision was followed in the case of Naina Thakkar

v. Annapurna Builders,4 wherein it was held as follows: 7. An amendment was brought in the Arbitration and Conciliation

Act, 1996 (hereinafter being referred to as the “Act, 1996”), and Section 11(6A) was inserted in 2016. 8. A two-Judge Bench in Garware Wall Ropes Limited v.

Coastal Marine Constructions and Engineering Limited,5 dealt

4 (2013) 14 SCC 354

5 (2019) 9 SCC 209 6 with the issue whether an arbitration clause in an agreement which

requires compulsorily to be stamped under the relevant Indian

Stamp Act, 1899 (hereinafter being referred to as the “Act, 1899”), but

is not duly stamped, would be enforceable even after the insertion of

clause (6A) to Section 11 of the Act, 1996. The Bench followed the

reasoning and upholding of the decision in SMS Tea Estates Private

Limited (supra), and held: A).” 9. The decision in Garware Wall Ropes Limited (supra) was cited

in approval by a three-Judge Bench in the case of Vidya Drolia and

Others (supra) wherein it was held: 10. Later, a three-Judge Bench in M/s. N.N. Global Mercantile

Private Limited (supra) held that in arbitration jurisprudence, an

“arbitration agreement is a distinct and separate agreement, which

is independent from the substantive commercial contract in which it 9 is embedded”. This three-Judge Bench made a reference to the

Constitution Bench, as it expressed its disagreements with the view

expressed in SMS Tea Estates Private Limited (supra), Garware

Wall Ropes Limited (supra), and Vidya Drolia and Others (supra). It

held: enforceable, since it has an independent existence of its own. The
 view taken by the Court on the issue of separability of the arbitration
 clause on the registration of the substantive contract, ought to have
 been followed even with respect to the Stamp Act . The non-payment
 of stamp duty on the substantive contract would not invalidate even
 the main contract. It is a deficiency which is curable on the payment
 of the requisite Stamp Duty.” 11. It also doubted the correctness of the view taken in SMS Tea

Estates Private Limited (supra), which was approved in Garware 10 Wall Ropes Limited (supra) and Vidya Drolia and Others (supra),

and held: 12. As the Benches in both M/S. N.N. Global Mercantile Private

Limited (supra) and Vidya Drolia and Others (supra) are of equal

strength, this Constitution Bench has been called upon to

authoritatively rule on the issue. To adjudicate the issue, this Bench

at first needs to examine whether the requirements under the Act,

1899 at pre-referral stage are required to be examined for

appointment of Arbitrator under Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996. 13. Mr. Gourab Banerjee, learned senior counsel, who appears as

Amicus Curiae to assist this Court, submits that the intention of the

Act, 1996 and the later amendments made from time to time were to

streamline the process and judicial intervention in arbitration 11 proceedings adds significantly to the delay in the arbitration process

and that negates the benefit of arbitration. The Arbitration &

Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (hereinafter being referred to as

the 2015 Amendment) was introduced to emphasize the speedy

disposal of cases relating to arbitration with minimal court

interference. 14. Mr. Banerjee submits that so far as the scope and ambit of Section 11 is concerned, it is only to fill the gap and the Court is

merely functioning as an appointing authority where the parties fail

to appoint an Arbitrator. After the insertion of Section 11(6A) (2015

Amendment), the legislative policy and purport are essentially to

minimize the Court’s intervention at the stage of appointing the

Arbitrator and with this intention, Section 11(6A) has been

incorporated which ought to be respected. 15. Mr. Banerjee further submits that the scope of the Court should

be circumscribed to confine to the examination, prima facie, of the

formal existence of the arbitration agreement at the stage of contract

formation, including whether the agreement is in writing and the core

contractual ingredients qua the formation of the agreement are

fulfilled. On rare occasions, if a question is being raised by the 12 parties, to some extent, the Court may examine the subject matter of

dispute as arbitrable but that too as an exception. At the same time,

so far as the Act, 1899 is concerned, it is only a fiscal measure

enacted to secure revenue of the State in certain classes of

instruments but that may not be invoked to arm a litigant with a

weapon of technicality to meet the case of his/her opponent. Once

the object of the revenue is secured according to law, the party

staking his claim in the instrument will not be defeated on the ground

of the initial defect in the instrument. 16. Mr. Banerjee further submits that even non-payment of stamp

duty is a curable defect and this defect can be cured at any stage

before the instrument is admitted into evidence by the Arbitral

Tribunal. If the insufficiency of stamp or unduly stamped is being

examined/adjudicated at the pre-referral stage by the Court under Section 11 , it would be nothing but to encourage parasitical

challenges and dilatory tactics in resisting reference to arbitration.

The natural solution inevitable is to appoint the Arbitrator and to

allow the dispute resolution proceedings to commence and permit the

Arbitral Tribunal to fulfil its duty under the Act, 1996. There is no 13 reason why the Arbitral Tribunal cannot prevent the evasion of stamp

duty. 17. It is also brought to our notice that at the time of submitting an

application under Section 11 at the pre-referral stage, the parties are

not under an obligation to file an original arbitration agreement and

since the copy of the arbitration agreement is to be annexed with the

application, in true sense, it is not an instrument as being

contemplated under Section 2(14) of the Act, 1899, particularly at

the pre-referral stage, the question of invoking Sections 33 or 35 of

the Act, 1899 is not available to be invoked. In support of submission

Mr. Banerjee has placed reliance on the judgment of this Court

reported in Jupudi Kesava Rao v. Pulavarthi Venkata Subbarao

and Others6 which has been later followed by this Court in Hariom

Agrawal v. Prakash Chand Malviya7 . 18. Taking assistance thereof, Mr. Banerjee submits that Sections

33 or 35 are not concerned with any copy of the instrument and there

is no scope for the inclusion of the copy of the document for the

purpose of the Act, 1899. The copy of the instrument within the

6 (1971) 1 SCC 545

7 (2007) 8 SCC 514 14 meaning of Section 2(14) of the Act, 1899 cannot be validated by

impounding and it cannot be admitted as secondary evidence under

the Act, 1899. 19. Mr. Banerjee further submits that the very question raised for

consideration of this Court as to whether the arbitral agreement is

valid or is in existence in law, is not open to be examined at the pre-

referral stage for the reason that original instrument is not on record

(arbitral agreement) and a conjoint reading of Sections 33 and 35 is

not concerned with any copy of the instrument and the party can

only be allowed to rely on the document in evidence which is an

instrument withing the meaning of Section 2(14) and the validity of

the document is always open to be examined at the post-referral

stage by the Arbitrator/Arbitral Tribunal in its jurisdiction vested in Section 16 of the Act, 1996. 20. Mr. Gagan Sanghi, learned counsel for the appellant, submits

that Section 35 of the Act, 1899 bars admission of unduly stamped

“instrument” in evidence “for any purpose” and also “acting upon it”

and it was held by this Court in Government of Andhra Pradesh 15 and Others v P. Laxmi Devi(Smt. )8 that “shall” in Section 33 of the

Act, 1899 is mandatory and unstamped document must be

impounded. Even assuming that stamp duty is not payable on an

arbitration agreement under the Act, 1899, when arbitration

agreement is contained as a clause in an instrument on which stamp

duty is payable, such arbitration agreement as an instrument,

attracts the bar of Section 35 of the Act, 1899. 21. Mr. Sanghi further submits that separation of agreement from

the substantive contract is nothing but a legal fiction created by Section 16 of the Act, 1996 and it cannot be an exception to Section

35 of the Act, 1899. 22. Mr. Sanghi further submits that the Doctrine of Separability

and Kompetenz - Kompetenz has no bearing on the issue of

enforceability of an arbitration agreement when proper stamp duty is

not paid on the instrument containing the arbitration agreement and

relied upon the judgment of the UK Supreme Court in Enka Insaat

Ve Sanayi AS v OOO Insurance Company Chubb9 where it was held

that an “arbitration clause is nonetheless part of bundle of rights and

8 (2008) 4 SCC 720

9 (2020) UK SC 38 16 obligations recorded in the contractual document” and according to

him, the issue of stamping is to be looked into at the very threshold,

even if it is in exercise of Section 11 (6A) , i.e. at the time of pre-arbitral

stage with respect to appointment of arbitrator. According to him,

an instrument would exist in law only when it is enforceable and

“existence” defined in Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996 in respect of an

arbitration agreement, has to be a valid enforceable agreement and

it is always open to examine the issue of non-stamping or of

insufficiently stamped at the initial/pre-referral stage itself and

further highlighting three modes as provided in M/s. N.N. Global

Mercantile Private Limited (supra) i.e. impounding, payment of

stamp duty and appointment of arbitrator, on an application filed

under Section 11 of the Act, 1996, the Court is certainly “acting

upon” the arbitration clause which is contended to be barred by the

clear expression of Section 35 of the Act, 1899 and an Agreement,

unless enforceable by law, cannot be termed to be in existence under Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996. 23. Ms. Malvika Trivedi, learned senior counsel, who appears for

the intervenor in I.A. No.18516 of 2022, submits that the regimes of

the Act, 1899 and Act, 1908 are completely different. M/s. N.N. 17 Global Mercantile Private Limited (supra) wrongly applied the

principles of registration of a document to the requirement of

stamping a document. While the former is a curable defect, the latter

determines the very existence and completion of a

document/instrument. In the absence of registration, an instrument

shall remain in existence but without stamping, the instrument is

incomplete/inchoate. 24. Ms. Trivedi further submits that the Act, 1899 envisages the

payment of stamp duty, failing which the instrument, according to

her, cannot be acted upon for any purpose and there is no ambiguity

in the language of the Statute and we have to follow the golden

principles of interpretation of the Statute. 25. Ms. Trivedi further submits that the powers of the Court under

different provisions of law as well as the restrictions created in the

Act, 1899 apply to the proceedings conducted in accordance with Section 9 of the Act, 1996 and submits that even if the arbitration

clause stands severed, the Court will have to reach a prima facie

conclusion as to whether the substantive contract which contained 18 the clause of arbitration is enforceable in law before granting interim

measures invoking Section 9 of the Act, 1996. 26. Mr. Debesh Panda, learned counsel for the Intervenor in I.A. No.

199969 of 2022 submits that Part I of Act, 1996 deals with Sections

8 , 9 and 11 , whereas Section 45 is dealt within Part II. Section 45 has been recognized as a provision under Part II which is a complete

code. The expression “unless it finds” in Section 45 was interpreted

by majority in Shin-Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. v Aksh Optifibre Ltd.

and Another10 as a consideration on a prima facie basis. In 2019,

Parliament amended Section 45 by substituting the expression

“unless it finds” with “unless it prima facie finds”, that brings the

statute in line with the position settled in Shin Etsu (supra). In this

background, the Act, 1899 merely creates a temporary infliction till

the stamp duty is recovered, with or without penalty. The affliction

only attaches to the instrument and not the transaction. 27. Mr. K. Ramakanth Reddy, learned senior counsel for

respondent no.1 took us through the relevant Lok Sabha debates

before the enactment of the Act, 1996 and taking assistance thereof

10 (2005) 7 SCC 234 19 submits that the provisions of the Act 1996, Act 1899 and the Contract Act, 1872 (hereinafter being referred to as “Act, 1872”) has

to be harmonized. Section 17 of Act, 1899 has to be read with Section

31 of the Act, 1899. The plain language of Section 7 of the Act, 1996

does not require that the parties are under an obligation to stamp

the agreement. The legislative intention would be defeated, if the

Court insist on non-core technical requirements such as stamps,

seals and originals for the purpose of acting upon the arbitration

agreement at a pre-arbitration stage for appointment of an arbitrator

invoking power under Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996. 28. Learned counsel for the respondents, further submits that in

the instant facts of the case, an application was filed under Section

8 for reference of disputes to arbitration and it was not maintainable

under Section 34 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 which is

almost pari materia to the Act, 1899. The work order being an

unstamped document could not be received in evidence for any

purpose, or acted upon, unless it is duly stamped. In consequence

thereof, the arbitration clause in the unstamped agreement also

could not be acted upon or enforced since the arbitration clause

would have no existence in law, unless the applicable stamp duty 20 (and penalty, if any) is paid on the work order and placed reliance on

the judgment of this Court in Garware Wall Ropes Limited (supra). 29. Learned counsel further submits that the High Court, while

relying on the application under Section 8 had enforced a non-

existent arbitration clause which is in violation of Section 34 of the

Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 and further contended that the

respondent had not indicated its willingness to pay the stamp duty,

even though, at later stage, an objection was raised and, therefore,

no justification arises to grant any further opportunity to now pay

the stamp duty under the clause of arbitration. 30. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and with their

assistance perused the material available on record and before

delving into the reference, we feel apposite to discuss the statutory

provisions related to the reference. III. Requirements under the Indian Stamp Act , 1899 31. The Act, 1899 is a fiscal statute laying down the law relating to

tax levied in the form of stamps on instruments recording

transactions. The stamp duties on instruments specified in Entry 91

of List I(Union List) of Schedule VII of the Constitution of India (viz. 21 Bills of Exchange, cheques, promissory notes, bills of lading, letters

of credit, policies of insurance, transfer of shares, debentures,

proxies and receipts) are levied by the Union Government. Similarly,

the stamp duties on instruments other than those mentioned in

Entry 91 of the Union List above are levied by the States as per Entry

63 of List II(State List) of the Schedule VII. Provisions other than

those relating to rates of duty fall within the legislative power of both

the Union and the States by virtue of Entry 44 of the List

III(Concurrent List). However, the stamp duties on all the

instruments are collected and kept by the concerned States. 32. The term ‘Instrument’ has been defined under Section 2(14) of

the Act, 1899 and the ‘Instrument chargeable to Duty’ is provided

under Section 3 whereas Section 17 provides that all instruments

chargeable with duty and executed by any person in India has to be

stamped. 33. Sections 2(14) , 3 and 17 of the Act, 1899 are extracted

hereunder: - (b) every bill of exchange [payable otherwise than on
 demand] or promissory note drawn or made out of
 [India] on or after that day and accepted or paid, or
 presented for acceptance or payment, or endorsed,
 transferred or otherwise negotiated, in [India]; and (c) every instrument (other than a bill of exchange, or
 promissory note) mentioned in that Schedule, which,
 not having been previously executed by any person, is
 executed out of [India] on or after that day, relates to
 any property situate, or to any matter or thing done or
 to be done, in [India] and is received in [India]: 17. Instruments executed in India. — All instruments chargeable
with duty and executed by any person in [India] shall be stamped
before or at the time of execution. 18. Instruments other than bills and notes executed out of
India.—(1) Every instrument chargeable with duty executed only out
of [India], and not being a bill of exchange or promissory note, may
be stamped within three months after it has been first received in
[India]. (2) Where any such instrument cannot, with reference to the 23 description of stamp prescribed therefore, be duly stamped by a
 private person, it may be taken within the said period of three
 months to the Collector, who shall stamp the same, in such manner
 as the [State Government] may by rule prescribe, with a stamp of
 such value as the person so taking such instrument may require
 and pay for.” 34. ‘Instrument’ as defined under Section 2(14) of the Act, 1899

includes every document by which any right or liability is, or purports

to be, created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished, or

recorded. The term ‘Instrument’ as defined under Section 2(14) refers

to the original instrument and not a copy or a duly certified copy of

the same. It is only on production of the original instrument, the

deficiencies in the stamp duty/penalty can be paid to validate the

same. 35. Chapter IV ( Section 33 to Section 48 ) of the Act, 1899 titled

‘Instruments not duly stamped’ provides for the procedure to be

followed when an instrument which ought to have been stamped is

not stamped. 36. Section 33 of the Act, 1899 provides for ‘Examination and

impounding of instruments’. Under sub-section (1) of Section 33 ,

“Every person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive

evidence, and every person in charge of a public office, except an 24 officer of police, before whom any instrument, chargeable, in his

opinion, with duty, is produced or comes in the performance of his

functions, shall, if it appears to him that such instrument is not duly

stamped, impound the same”. Section 33(2) of the Act, 1899 provides

that every instrument chargeable with duty shall be examined by

such person as explained in sub-section (1), “in order to ascertain

whether it is stamped with a stamp of the value and description

required by the law in force in India when such instrument was

executed or first executed”. The definition of ‘duly stamped’ as

contained in Section 2(11) as applied to an instrument means that

the instrument bears an adhesive or impressed stamp of not less

than the proper amount and that such stamp has been affixed or

used in accordance with law for the time being in force in India. 37. A plain reading of Section 33 of the Act, 1899 thus explains that

when an instrument or a document is produced before the authority,

it is the duty of such authority to examine whether the instrument is

duly stamped or not, and if it is found that the instrument is not

“duly stamped” under Section 33(2) , the concerned authority shall

impound the said instrument. 38. Section 34 of the Act, 1899 provides a discretion to the

concerned officer that if any receipt chargeable with a duty not

exceeding “ten naye paise” is tendered to or produced before them

unstamped in the course of the audit of any public account, such

officer may in their discretion, “instead of impounding the

instrument, require a duly stamped receipt to be substituted

therefore.” 39. A plain reading of Section 35 of the Act, 1899 suggests that an

inadmissible instrument because of being unstamped or

insufficiently stamped may be made admissible if the relevant stamp

duty and a penalty is paid later. This shows that the requirement

under Section 35 is not rigid, and can be rectified even at a later

stage. An unstamped or insufficiently stamped instrument is not

completely invalid, and it can be made valid and admissible in

evidence after fulfilling the conditions prescribed in the proviso to Section 35 . 40. Section 37 of the Act, 1899 deals with admission of improperly

stamped instruments. It provides that the State Government may

make rules providing that, where an instrument bears a stamp of 26 sufficient amount but of improper description, it may, on payment of

the duty with which the same is chargeable, be certified to be duly

stamped, and any instrument so certified shall then be deemed to

have been duly stamped as from the date of its execution. 41. Section 38 of the Act, 1899 provides for the procedure for how

the instruments impounded are to be dealt with. Sub-Section (1) of Section 38 provides that when the person impounding an instrument

under Section 33 admits such instrument in evidence upon payment

of a penalty as provided by Section 35 or of duty as provided by Section 37 , he shall send to the Collector an authenticated copy of

such instrument, together with a certificate in writing, stating the

amount of duty and penalty levied in respect thereof, and shall send

such amount to the Collector, or to such person as he may appoint

in this behalf. 42. Sections 39 and 40 of the Act, 1899 provide a procedure of

exercising discretion by the Collector to either refund, certify the

instrument as duly stamped, or collect the stamp duty. 43. A plain reading of Sections 33 , 35 and 2(14) of the Act, 1899

clearly demonstrates that the instrument which is not duly stamped 27 can be impounded and when the required fee and penalty has been

paid, the said instrument can be taken as an evidence under Section

35 of the Act, 1899. But, at the same time, Sections 33 and 35 are

not concerned with any copy of the instrument and party can be

allowed to rely on the document which is an instrument within the

meaning of Section 2(14) of the Act, 1899. This Court had an

occasion to consider the scope and ambit of Sections 33 , 35 and 36 of the Act, 1899 and Section 63 of the Evidence Act, 1872 in Jupudi

Kesava Rao (supra) and it was held that: Once the time for raising objection to the admission of the
 documentary evidence is passed, no objection based on the same
 ground can be raised at a later stage. But this in no way extends
 the applicability of Section 36 to secondary evidence adduced or
 sought to be adduced in proof of the contents of a document which
 is unstamped or insufficiently stamped.”
 (Emphasis added) 44. This view has been affirmed by a three-Judge Bench of this

Court in Hariom Agrawal (supra) wherein it has been held as under: 45. Law on the subject is well settled that duly certified

copy/photocopy of the alleged instrument cannot be validated by

impounding and this cannot be admitted in evidence under the Act,

1899. It leads to the conclusion that the deficiency in an instrument, 29 whether it is unduly stamped or insufficiently stamped, can be

rectified through a procedure as prescribed under the Act, 1899. It

clearly indicates that the requirement under the Act can indeed be

fulfilled even after the time when the instrument was executed. The

requirement under the Act is not rigid or strict, so as to make the

instrument invalid at the first instance. 46. It also shows that the purpose of the Act, 1899 is not to declare

an instrument as completely invalid if it is unstamped or

insufficiently stamped, but to collect the stamp duty on each

instrument. The object of the Act, 1899 is to secure revenue for the

state. 47. This Court, in the case of Hindustan Steel Ltd. v. Messrs Dilip

Construction Company,11 dealt with the object of the Act, 1899 and

held: 48. The Bench, after explaining that the scope of the Act, 1899 is to

secure revenue for the state and not to be used as means to harass

the litigant, concluded that unstamped instruments can be acted

upon after payment of duty and penalty. Initial defects can be cured

and it is never the intention of the legislature to treat an initially

unstamped instrument as non-est in law. 49. The Statute deals with the instances of failure to stamp a

document which has got to be stamped under the provisions of the

Act, 1899 but does not affect the validity of the transaction embodied

in the document. That Part IV of the Act, 1899 deals with the

contingencies of non-payment of stamp duties and once the object of

securing the interest of the revenue of State is secured, the claim

based on instrument can always be acted upon on payment of the

requisite stamp duty. 50. We, therefore, hold that the deficiencies under the Act, 1899

can be fulfilled, and do not render any instrument invalid 31 permanently. Now, it is to be seen whether the Court or Arbitral

Tribunal can order rectification of the deficiencies under the Act

1899, if any. IV. Historical Background of Arbitration in India 51. Arbitration can be understood as a procedure of dispute

resolution in which the dispute is submitted, by the agreement of the

parties, to the appointed Arbitrator or the Arbitral Tribunal who are

having the jurisdiction to resolve the dispute in accordance with the

applicable law as agreed among the parties. Alternatively, it can be

understood as a mechanism to adjudicate disputes between the

parties outside the court in a quasi-judicial manner. 52. The process of arbitration as a preferable method of dispute

resolution is not new in India. According to the scholars of the

ancient Hindu literature, “Brhadaranayaka Upanishad” is the

earliest known treatise that mentions a system that can be closely

associated with present-day arbitration as the same involved various

arbitral bodies such as “Puga” or the local courts, “Srenis” or the

people carrying out the same profession and “Kulas” or members

concerned with the social matters of the same part of the society. All 32 the above-explained bodies were called the Panchas and cumulatively

formed Panchayat. The same has been affirmed by the Privy Council

in the case of Vytla Sitanna v. Marivada Viranna12 wherein it was

observed that the parties used to refer the dispute to the elected

panchayat and these adjudicating bodies were responsible to pass

the award which was based on the principle of fair and equitable

settlement of the dispute based on the prevalent legal as well as moral

grounds. 53. The arbitration regime in India further evolved with the

enactment of the first Bengal Regulation by the Britishers in the year

of 1772. Subsequent to this enactment, all the disputes were

submitted to arbitration and the award of the same had the same

value as that of any decree passed by the Court. Further, the Bengal

Regulation of 1781 also contained provision as reproduced herein: 54. It is quite evident from the above-mentioned clause that the

Bengal Regulations contained provisions to enable the parties to refer

the dispute to be settled by the process of arbitration as per the

mutual agreement of the parties, especially in disputes involving

breach of the contractual obligations and partnership deeds.

Arbitration also found a place in the earliest enacted legislation by

the State i.e., Code of Civil Procedure , 1859. Specifically, the

provision in Schedule II of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908

contained the procedure relating to arbitration. These statutory

provisions primarily dealt with two types of arbitrations: 55. Apart from these two types of arbitration, there evolved a third

kind of arbitration known as “Statutory Arbitration” wherein the

https://www.icaindia.co.in/icanet/quterli/apr-june2002/ica5.html (Last
accessed on 22nd January, 2023 at 10:50 pm). 34 procedure of arbitration is governed by the provisions contained in

the statute. 56. The major development in the arbitration regime came with the

enactment of the Arbitration Act, 1899 which was quite comparable

to the English Arbitration Act, 1899. This enactment can be

understood as the first step in the direction of enforcement of

arbitration in India. The Arbitration Act, 1899 was initially

applicable to all the presidency towns and there existed judicial

intervention right from the initial reference of the dispute to the

process of arbitration. 57. With the rapidly changing times, the evolution of the arbitration

regime in India also gained momentum. The Code of Civil Procedure ,

1908 was amended to insert the provision contained under Section

89 which exclusively dealt with the applicability and enforceability of

the arbitration. In the early 20th century, arbitration emerged as an

acceptable mode of dispute resolution and in order to meet its

growing popularity, the Arbitration Act, 1940 (hereinafter being

referred to as the “Act, 1940”) was enacted by the legislature. The

Act, 1940 was enacted with the primary motive of providing speedy 35 and less costly method of dispute resolution in the form of

arbitration. However, there existed many inadequacies in the

practical application of the provisions contained in the Act, 1940. 58. The Act, 1940 contained many provisions similar to the

provisions contained under the English Arbitration Act, 1934 but still

it did not have any provision for enforceability of the foreign award.

Also, the provisions contained in the Act, 1940 facilitated the

intervention of the judiciary at all the three stages of the arbitral

proceedings, i.e., before the dispute was referred to the arbitration,

during the pendency of the arbitral proceedings and after passing the

arbitral award. 59. The ineffective functioning of the provision contained under the

Act, 1940 was regularly criticised by the Judiciary. The following

observation by Justice D.A. Desai in the case of Guru Nanak

Foundation v. Rattan Singh and Sons14 is quite relevant to be

mentioned here: 60. This Court further observed in the case of Food Corporation of

India v. Joginderpal Mohinderpal and Another15 that the law

governing arbitration is supposed to be less technical and more

suitable to practical problems by ascertaining equity and fair play in

the entire process. Despite such severe criticism by this Court, no

amendment was brought in the Act, 1940 by the legislature for a long

period of time. 61. It was only by the late 20th century, there came a major shift in

the development of arbitration in India. Due to the economic

liberalization and alike policies of the government in 1991, there was

a need felt to create a conducive environment for attracting foreign

investments. Therefore, based on the 76th Report of the Law

Commission of India as well as the Model UNCITRAL law, the Act,

1996 was enacted by the legislature. The Act,1996 came into force

from 16th August, 1996 with an object of making the process of

15 (1989) 2 SCC 347 37 arbitration cost effective, less technical and in accordance with the

prevalent international practices across the world.

V. Intent behind incorporation of Section 11(6A) of the

Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 62. A major shift for the development of arbitration in India

happened with the enactment of the Act, 1996. Based on the 76 th

Report16 of the Law Commission of India as well as the Model

UNCITRAL law, the Act, 1996 was enacted with an object of making

the process of arbitration cost effective, less technical and in

accordance with the prevalent international practices across the

world. The legislative intent was to provide effective and speedy

procedure for dispute resolution among the parties as well as to limit

the scope of judicial intervention in the process of arbitration.17 India

is gradually moving in the direction of minimal judicial intervention

keeping abreast with the developments of arbitration in other

regimes. 16 Law Commission of India, 76th Report on Arbitration Act, 1940 17Paragraph No. 4(v), Statement of Objects and Reasons, Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996. 63. The Constitution Bench of this Court while examining the pre

2015 amendment regime in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engineering Ltd.

and Another18 held that all the preliminary or threshold issues

pertaining to jurisdiction of the Arbitrator/Arbitral Tribunal should

be examined by the Court under Section 11 of the Act, 1996. This

position of law was sought to be changed by the Law Commission in

its 246th Report, which states as follows: 64. In the said report, the Law Commission of India concluded that

the judicial intervention in arbitration proceedings adds significantly

to the delay in the arbitration process and ultimately negates the

benefit of arbitration. At paragraph 24, the Law Commission noted

as follows: “…[I]t is observed that a lot of time is spent for appointment

of arbitrators at the very threshold of arbitration proceedings.”20 65. The Law Commission suggested the insertion of sub-Section

(6A) to Section 11 in the Act, 1996 which was accepted by the

Legislature by way of the 2015 amendment to the Act, 1996. Section

11(6A) unambiguously by its intention manifests that “[the] Supreme

Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while examining an

application under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) or sub-section

(6), shall, notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any

Court, confine to examine only to the “existence of an arbitration

agreement”. 66. The 2015 amendment, including Section 11(6A) , and the later

amendments are in line with this evolution of arbitration

jurisprudence. With the series of amendments to the principal Act,

20 Paragraph No. 24, Report No. 246, Law Commission of India. 40 1996, it is quite evident that the legislature is continuously engaging

with the rapidly evolving arbitration regime in India and the various

challenges allied it with the object to reduce the scope of intervention

by the courts in the arbitration processes. It can be expected that

the arbitration in India is conducted in accordance with the following

views expressed by Justice Sabyasachi Mukharji in the case of Food

Corporation of India (supra): 21 (2017) 9 SCC 729 41 for arbitration pertaining to the disputes which have arisen between
 the parties to the agreement… 59. The scope of the power under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act was
 considerably wide in view of the decisions in SBP and Co. [SBP and
 Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC 618] and Boghara Polyfab
 [National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd., (2009) 1
 SCC 267. This position continued till the amendment brought about
 in 2015. After the amendment, all that the courts need to see is
 whether an arbitration agreement exists—nothing more, nothing
 less. The legislative policy and purpose is essentially to minimise the
 Court's intervention at the stage of appointing the arbitrator and
 this intention as incorporated in Section 11 (6-A) ought to be
 respected.”
 (Emphasis added) 68. This position was affirmed by a three-judge bench in Mayavati

Trading Private Limited v. Pradyuat Deb Burman22 : 69. Thus, the 2015 amendment aims to limit the intervention of

Courts to minimal examining the existence and not the validity of an

arbitration agreement at the pre-referral stage of the arbitration

proceedings. 22 (2019) 8 SCC 714 42 VI. Scope of Section 11(6A) w.r.t. Section 8 , Section 16 and Section 45 of Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 70. Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996 reads as follows: 71. The scope of inquiry under Section 11(6A) is restricted to

examine the “existence of an arbitration agreement”. The phrase

‘existence of an arbitration agreement’ is to be understood in a literal

sense keeping the intention of the legislature after the introduction

of the 2015 amendment. The position of law that prevails after the

insertion of 2015 amendment is that there should be minimal

interference by the Courts. The limited scope of the Court to examine

at the pre-referral stage is whether the arbitration agreement, prima

facie, exists as referred to under Section 7 of the Act, 1996 which

includes determination of the following factors: 72. Section 8(1) , which was replaced by the amendment of 2015,

mandates a judicial authority to refer parties to arbitration unless

there is prima facie finding that no valid arbitration agreement exists.

The language used in the provision is as follows: section (1) and that the issue is pending before the judicial authority, 44 an arbitration may be commenced or continued and an arbitral
 award made.” 73. The Section provides that the Court can examine, whether

prima facie there does not exist an arbitration agreement. The scope

of this Section can be seen from the 246th Law Commission Report23,

which made the following note while suggesting amendment to Section 8 : 74. A plain reading of the Section 8 indicates that it limits the

intervention of the Court to only one aspect i.e., when it finds that

prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists or is null and void.

23 LAW COMMISSION OF INDIA Report No. 246 Amendments to the Arbitration

and Conciliation Act 1996, pg. 43 45 75. The scheme of the Act, 1996 manifests that Sections 8 and 11 are complementary in nature and both relate to reference to

arbitration and have the same scope and ambit with respect to

judicial interference. The Court, under Sections 8 and 11 , has to

refer the matter to arbitration or to appoint an Arbitrator, provided

the party has established a prima facie existence of an arbitration

agreement, nothing more nothing less. At the same time, the Court

should refer the matter if the validity of the arbitration agreement

cannot be determined on a prima facie basis, as laid down above i.e.

“when in doubt, do refer”. 76. At this stage, we would like to observe that the statutory scheme

has been framed for appointment of an Arbitrator by various High

Courts and also by this Court - called the Appointment of Arbitrators

by the Chief Justice of India Scheme, 1996, the relevant portion of

the same is extracted hereunder:- section (5) or sub-section (6) of section 11 , as the case may be,
 before making the request to the Chief Justice, has been
 satisfied. 77. It is clear from the scheme of which a reference has been made

that while the applicant approaches the Court for appointment of an

Arbitrator, he is not supposed to file an original arbitration

agreement and attested copy of the agreement can be annexed at the

pre-referral stage which is indeed not an instrument as referred to

under Section 2(14) of the Act, 1899. 78. So far as the reference made of submitting a certified copy of

the arbitration agreement is concerned, suffice it to say, that

arbitration agreement executed between the parties relating to the

business/commercial transactions is not required to be compulsorily 47 registered under the Act, 1908. The obligation to register the

document is invoked under provisions of the substantive law,

namely, Transfer of Property Act, 1882 , while Section 17 of the Act,

1908 mandates that the non-testamentary instrument that created

any right, title or interest of the value of Rs.100/- or upwards in an

immovable property must be compulsorily registered. If document is

not registered, transfer is void, there is no valid transfer, and the

property described in the instrument does not pass on, for example,

mortgage does not become complete and enforceable until it is

registered under the Act, 1908. 79. Indisputably, the arbitration agreement is not a public

document to which compulsory registration as referred to under Section 17 of the Act, 1908 is required and one can obtain a certified

copy of the public document under Sections 74 or 75 of the Evidence

Act, 1872 . The Public Officer having the custody of a public

document can make available its certified copy as referred to under Section 76 of the Evidence Act, 1872. In the absence of the

arbitration agreement being required to be compulsorily registered,

within the scope and ambit of Section 17 of the Act, 1908, such

arbitration agreement/document is not accessible in public domain 48 and is not a public document of which certified copy can be obtained,

as referred to under Section 74 of the Evidence Act, 1872, failing

which the question of presumption as to genuineness of document

purporting to be a certified copy as referred to under Section 79 of

the Evidence Act, 1872 may not arise. 80. In other words, when the arbitration agreement is not required

to be compulsorily registered as referred to under Section 17 of the

Act, 1908 the reference of a certified copy under the Scheme of Rules,

1996 appears to be of an authenticated copy of the arbitration

agreement that qualifies the requirement of Section 7 of the Act, 1996

at the pre-referral stage for the purposes of appointment of an

Arbitrator under Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996. Hence, the question

of raising objection regarding the arbitration agreement not being

stamped or insufficiently stamped at the pre-referral stage may not

arise. 81. Section 16 of the Act, 1996 is referred to as under:- however, a party shall not be precluded from raising such a plea
 merely because that he has appointed, or participated in the
 appointment of, an arbitrator. (3) A plea that the arbitral tribunal is exceeding the scope of its
 authority shall be raised as soon as the matter alleged to be beyond
 the scope of its authority is raised during the arbitral proceedings.

 (4) The arbitral tribunal may, in either of the cases referred to in
 sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), admit a later plea if it considers
 the delay justified. (5) The arbitral tribunal shall decide on a plea referred to in sub-
 section (2) or sub-section (3) and, where the arbitral tribunal takes
 a decision rejecting the plea, continue with the arbitral proceedings
 and make an arbitral award. (6) A party aggrieved by such an arbitral award may make an
 application for setting aside such an arbitral award in accordance
 with section 34 .” 82. Section 16(1) of the Act, 1996 envisaged that an Arbitral

Tribunal can rule upon own jurisdiction, “including ruling on any

objection with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration

agreement”. The provision is based on the doctrine of Kompetenz-

Kompetenz and the doctrine of Separability. The doctrine of

Kompetenz-Kompetenz means that the Arbitral Tribunal is competent 50 enough to rule on its own jurisdiction. At the same time, the Doctrine

of Separability severs the arbitration clause from the commercial

contract. Section 16(1)(a) presupposes the existence of a clause of

arbitration and mandates the same to be treated as independent to

the other terms of the contract. Under Section 16 , the Arbitral

Tribunal shall have the jurisdiction to determine the validity of the

arbitration agreement. 83. A division Bench of this Court in Uttarakhand Purv Sainik

Kalyan Nigam Limited v. Northern Coal Field Limited24 while

placing reliance on Duro Felguera (supra) held that issues related

to limitation must be raised before the Arbitral Tribunal. The Court

observed the following: 84. What the Courts at the pre-referral stage can examine under Section 11(6A) is only the “existence” of the arbitration agreement,

24 (2020) 2 SCC 455 51 while the Arbitral Tribunal shall have the jurisdiction to examine

“any objections with respect to the existence or validity of the

arbitration agreement”. 85. Section 45 of the Act, 1996 provides that: 86. A plain comparison between Section 11(6A) and Section 45 manifests that the scope of Section 45 is much broader. Under Section 45 , a judicial authority has to examine whether the

agreement is “null and void”, “inoperative”, or “incapable of being

performed”. 87. This Court in World Sport Group (Mauritius) Limited v. MSM

Satellite (Singapore) Pte . Limited,25 in paras 33 to 35 explained

the difference between the terms ‘null and void’, ‘inoperative’ and

‘incapable of being performed’ as under:- 88. The above explained examination does not arise in the language

of Section 11(6A) . That is to say, the legislature has not borrowed the

language of Section 45 in Section 11(6A) , which is limited to the

‘existence’ of the arbitration agreement. 54 VII. Limited Examination by Court under Section 11(6A) of the

Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 89. The limited scope of Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996 has been

explained by a three-judge bench of this Hon’ble Court in Pravin

Electricals Private Limited v. Galaxy Infra and Engineering

Private Limited26 at para 17 placing its reliance on Vidya Drolia

and Others (supra) wherein it was held that the existence of an

arbitration agreement means an agreement which satisfies the

requirements of both the Act, 1996 and the Contract Act, 1872 and

when it is enforceable in law. The judgment in United India

Insurance Company Limited and Another v. Hyundai

Engineering & Construction Company Limited and Others27 was

also relied upon in Pravin Electricals Private Limited (supra) to

demonstrate that Section 11(6A) deals with “existence”, juxtaposed

to Section 16 and Section 45 , which deal with “validity” of an

arbitration agreement. There indeed lies a distinction between the

“existence” and the “validity” of an arbitration agreement.

26 (2021) 5 SCC 671

27 (2018) 17 SCC 607 55 90. The UNCITRAL Model Law also supports a distinction between

jurisdictional objections based on the alleged non-existence,

invalidity, or illegality of the arbitration agreement, and jurisdictional

objections based upon the scope of a concededly valid arbitration

agreement. 28 All issues of jurisdiction including the existence or

validity of the arbitration agreement can be decided by the Arbitral

Tribunal, whether or not appointed through the intervention of the

court under Section 16 of the Act, 1996. VIII. Interpretation of “Existence of Arbitration Agreement” 91. In order to determine the “existence of an arbitration

agreement” under Section 11(6A) , the Act, 1899 may not have a

bearing owing to the reason that at the pre-referral stage, if the

document is not duly stamped/insufficiently stamped that does not

render the arbitration agreement non-existent as discussed and

ascertained earlier. The only consideration that the courts/judicial

authority at the pre-referral stage needs to follow is the prima facie

28 UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (1985), with

amendments as adopted in 2006, Available at: IX. Clarification on Stamping of Arbitration Agreement 93. In the reference Order and in paras 20, 24 and 58 in particular,

a reference has been made that Maharashatra Stamp Act, 1958 does

not subject to arbitration agreement to payment of stamp duty. The

relevant paragraphs of the M/S. N.N. Global Mercantile Private

Limited (supra)29 are as follows: 94. There appears to be an error in the view taken by the 3-Judge

Bench. The Schedule I to the Act, 1899 in its Article 5 titled

“Agreement or Memorandum of Agreement” has a residuary entry

which says (c) if not otherwise provided for- Eight annas. Article 5

has been reproduced as: or part thereof of the
 value of the security or
 share (c) if not otherwise provided for Eight annas
Exemptions 59 Agreement or memorandum of agreement – (a) for or relating to the sale of goods or Merchandise
 exclusively, not being a NOTE OR
 MEMORANDUM chargeable under No. 43; (b) made in the form of tenders to the Central
 Government for or relating to any loan; 95. The examination of the arbitration agreement at the stage of Section 11 (pre-referral stage) should be done cautiously in a way that

it does not breach the legislative intent behind the provisions by

opening the door wide open for judicial intervention. 96. We, however, refrain ourselves to examine the question

regarding the scope and ambit of Section 9 of the Act, 1996 of which

a reference has been made by a three-Judge Bench in M/s. N.N.

Global Mercantile Private Limited (supra) since the present

reference is not concerned to examine the scope of Section 9 of the

Act, 1996 and leave it open to be examined in the appropriate

proceedings. X. Answer to the Reference 97. To conclude, in our view: 98. The reference is answered accordingly. 99. We appreciate the contribution made by Mr. Gourab Banerjee,

Amicus Curiae in answering the reference made to this Court. ……………………………..J.
 (AJAY RASTOGI)

NEW DELHI; APRIL 25, 2023. REPORTABLE
 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
 CIVIL APPEAL NOS. 3802-3803 OF 2020
M/S N.N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PVT. LTD. APPELLANT(S)

 VERSUS
M/S INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. RESPONDENT(S)

 JUDGMENT
Hrishikesh Roy, J. A. Introduction
 B. Reference to the Constitution Bench
 C. Facts in NN Global
 D. Modification of the reference question
 E. Submissions of Counsel
 F. Statutory scheme of the Stamp Act,1899 G. Statutory scheme of the Arbitration Act , 1996 i) Evolution of law under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act,1996 ii) Post-2015 Regime: Insertion of Section 11(6A) iii) Post-2019 Amendment and the Report of the High-level Committee
 to review the Institutionalisation of Arbitration in India
 H. Discussion on SMS Tea
 I. Discussion on Garware
 J. Interplay between the Stamp Act, Arbitration Act and Contract Act. i) Arbitration Act is a special legislation ii) Harmonious Construction
 K. Advent of Technology and the changing nature of transactions
 L. Doctrine of Separability
 M. Kompetenz Kompetenz, & the issue of judicial logjam in India
 N. Discussion on Vidya Drolia
 O. Conclusion Page 1 of 78 A. Introduction 1. I had the benefit of reading the erudite opinion of my Learned Brother, Justice

 K.M. Joseph (for himself and Justice Aniruddha Bose) and the separate

 judgment of Learned Brother Justice C.T. Ravikumar. However, I regret my

 inability to agree with the majority opinion and the concurring judgment.

 Echoing the words of Charles Evans Hughes1 in one of his lectures delivered

 at the University of Columbia, let our minority opinion (self and Learned

 Brother Justice Ajay Rastogi, who has written a separate opinion), appeal to

 the brooding spirit of the future as also the powers of the legislature to

 examine the interplay between the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for

 short “ Arbitration Act, 1996 ”)and the Indian Stamp Act,1899 (for short “ Stamp

 Act,1899 ”); and to emphatically resolve the imbroglio to avoid any confusion

 in the minds of the stakeholders in the field of arbitration. 2. The role of Courts in arbitral proceedings has been much debated for years. Autonomy of the disputing party is the core of the arbitral process but if the

 parties fail to arrive at a consensus, the supervisory role of Courts becomes

 imperative. Redfern and Hunter on International Commercial Arbitration2

 describe the relationship between national courts and arbitral tribunals as

 follows: 3. The supervisory role of Courts under the Arbitration Act,1996 can be broadly

 categorized into three parts i.e., pre-commencement of arbitral proceedings,

 during the arbitral proceedings and at the post-arbitration stage. Section 8 and Section 11 in Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 , and Section 45 in Part II

 of the Arbitration Act,1996 specifically deal with the role of Courts before the

 initiation of arbitration proceedings. Section 8 deals with the “Power to refer

 parties to arbitration” where there is an arbitration agreement; it provides for

 a mandatory reference to arbitration, unless the Court is prima facie satisfied

 that no valid arbitration agreement exists. Section 11(6) , on the other hand,

 provides for “Appointment of Arbitrators” when parties fail to mutually agree

 on the name of an arbitrator or appoint an arbitrator in terms of the

 arbitration agreement. Section 45 refers to the “Power of judicial authority to

 refer parties to arbitration” in Part II of the Arbitration Act,1996 . 4. Here in this reference, the extent of judicial intervention before the

 commencement of arbitral proceedings is being tested. It raises important

 issues of delays in the enforcement of arbitration agreements, subject to

 payment of stamp duty and whether an arbitration agreement would be non-

 existent, invalid/void, or unenforceable in law, if the underlying instrument is

 not stamped/insufficiently stamped, as per the relevant Stamp Act . 5. The moot question in this reference is whether the statutory bar under Section

 35 titled “Instruments not duly stamped inadmissible in Evidence” of the Page 3 of 78 Stamp Act,1899 would be attracted when an arbitration agreement is

 produced under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act,1996. As a corollary, this

 reference also tests the scope and nature of the Court’s intervention

 specifically at the stage of appointment of arbitrator under Section 11 of the

 Arbitration Act, 1996. The conundrum over the scope of judicial review and

 the validity/enforceability of the unstamped/insufficiently stamped

 arbitration agreement contained in an underlying contract is expected to be

 resolved in this reference. B. Reference to the Constitution Bench 6. A 3-judge bench in M/S N.N. Global Mercantile Private Limited v M/S Indo

 Unique Flame Limited and others3 (for short “NN Global”) by doubting the

 reasoning in Paragraphs 146 and 147 of a coordinate bench of this Court in Vidya Drolia and others v Durga Trading Corporation4 (for short “Vidya Drolia”)

 considered it appropriate for the issue to be examined by a Bench of five

 judges. The matter before the Court in Vidya Drolia (supra) was related to

 subject-matter arbitrability but while deciding the question, it cited with

 approval Paragraphs 22 and 29 of the 2-judge Bench judgment in Garware

 Wall Tropes Limited v Coastal Marine Constructions and Engineering

 Limited5 (for short “Garware”). 7. Following the decision in SMS Tea Estates (P) Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P)

 Ltd.6 (for short “SMS Tea”), it was held in Garware (supra) that non-payment of

 stamp duty on the commercial contract would invalidate even the arbitration

 agreement and render it non-existent in law and unenforceable. 3 (2021) 4 SCC 379 4 (2021) 2 SCC 1 5 (2019) 9 SCC 209 6 (2011) 14 SCC 66 Page 4 of 78 8. This Court in NN Global (supra) overruled the 2-judge bench decision in SMS

 Tea (supra) which was cited with approval in Garware (supra). 9. NN Global (supra) relied inter alia, on the principle of Kompetenz Kompetenz

 and the doctrine of Separability incorporated under Section 16 of the

 Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 to doubt the correctness of the view

 taken in Vidya Drolia (supra) and Garware (supra). The relevant paragraphs

 which define the scope of this reference are extracted below: 56. We are of the considered view that the finding in SMS Tea Estates
 [SMS Tea Estates (P) Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P) Ltd. , (2011) 14
 SCC 66 : ( 2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 777] and Garware [Garware Wall Ropes
 Ltd. v. Coastal Marine Constructions & Engg. Ltd. , (2019) 9 SCC 209 : 57. In view of the finding in paras 146 and 147 of the judgment in Vidya Drolia [Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn. , (2021) 2 SCC 1 : 58. We consider it appropriate to refer the following issue, to be
 authoritatively settled by a Constitution Bench of five Judges of this
 Court: Thereafter, Indo Unique filed a Writ Petition against the order of the

 Commercial Court. On 30.9.2020, the Bombay High Court allowed the 7 (2021) 4 SCC 379 Page 6 of 78 application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act,1996. It held that the non-

 stamping of Work Order can be raised at the stage of Section 11 of the

 Arbitration Act,1996 or before the Arbitral Tribunal at the appropriate stage. It

 set aside the order of the Commercial Court on 18.01.2018. An appeal was

 filed in this Court where NN Global contended that since the sub-contract was

 not stamped under the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 , the arbitration

 agreement would be rendered ‘unenforceable’. It is in this context that the

 Court doubted the correctness of previous decisions in Garware (supra) which

 was cited with approval in Vidya Drolia (supra) declaring such arbitration

 agreements to not exist in law and reconsideration of the issue was sought

 from this Constitution Bench. D. Modification of the reference question: E. Submissions of the Counsel: obstante clause and was specifically meant to overrule the 7-judge bench in

 SBP & Co v Patel Engg. Ltd8. (for short “SBP”) and National Insurance Co. Ltd. V

 Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd9 (for short “Boghara Polyfab”). Moreover, the ambit of Section 16 of Arbitration Act, 1996 which deals with the competence of an

 arbitral tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction, is wide enough, according to Mr.

 Gourab Banerjee, to allow the arbitrator to make a determination with respect

 to the stamping of the instrument. 16.2. The 246th Report of the Law Commission of India10 (for short “246th LCI

 Report) recommended that the scope of authority be limited to “existence” and

 “validity” of the arbitration agreement. The legislature went one step further

 and limited the scope of the appointing authority under Section 11(6A) of the

 Arbitration Act,1996 to confine to the examination of only “existence” and not 8 (2005) 8 SCC 618 9 (2009) 1 SCC 267 10 Law Commission of India, ‘ Amendments to the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996’
 (246th Report, August 2014) Available at
 (https://cdnbbsr.s3waas.gov.in/s3ca0daec69b5adc880fb464895726dbdf/uploads/2022/0
 8/2022081615.pdf) <Last accessed on 19.3.2023> Page 9 of 78 even “validity” of the arbitration agreement. Such approach is consistent with

the objective of expeditious resolution of arbitration disputes. A Court under Section 11(6) of Arbitration Act,1996 is in the nature of an appointing authority,

to facilitate and assist arbitration. 16.3 The statutory bar in Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 would be triggered

only when there is a finding that the document is not duly stamped. For the

same, there ought to be an inquiry into stamping. Only on triggering of Section

33(2) of the Stamp Act, 1899 titled “Examination and impounding of

instruments”, Section 35 will follow. The examination under Section 33(2) of the

Stamp Act, 1899 should not be undertaken by a Court under Section 11(6A) of

the Arbitration Act, 1996, but by the appointed arbitrator.

16.4. If the court finds under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 that there

is no agreement, then it can take a final view. However, if the Court feels that a

deeper consideration is required then the same can be left to the Arbitral

Tribunal under Section 16 of the Arbitration Act,1996. According to Mr. Gourab

Banerjee, the learned Senior Counsel, this is the appropriate way to harmonise Section 11(6A) with Section 16 of the Arbitration Act, 1996.

16.5. The absence of stamping or instrument inadequately stamped would at

best be an issue of admissibility but not about jurisdiction. The Stamp

Act,1899 is a fiscal measure enacted to secure revenue for the State for certain

classes of instruments. It is, therefore, not enacted to arm a litigant with a

weapon of technicality to meet the case of the opponent.

16.6. The learned Amicus Curiae points out that a Court exercising power

under Section 11(6A) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 is not a Court as defined in Page 10 of 78 Section 2(1)(e) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which has the authority to ‘receive

 evidence’. In some sense, under Section 11(6A) , the Court is to only form a

 prime facie opinion. 16.7. Significantly, the parties are not under an obligation to file an original

 arbitration agreement and only the copy can be annexed which however is not

 an “instrument” as provided in Section 2(14) of the Stamp Act, 1899. The

 reading of Section 33 or 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 would pointedly suggest that

 these provisions are not concerned with the copy of the instrument. Validity is

 always open to examination at the post-referral stage. [ Jupudi Kesava Rao v

 Pulavarthi Venkata Subbarao and others11, Hariom Agrawal v Prakash Chand

 Malviya12 ] 17. Projecting the contrary view, Mr. Gagan Sanghi, learned Counsel for the

 appellant makes the following submissions: In Govt. of AP. v P. Laxmi Devi13, it was held that “shall” in Section 33 of Stamp

 Act,1899 is mandatory and unstamped document must be impounded.

 17.2. Even assuming that stamp duty is not payable on an arbitration

 agreement under Stamp Act, 1899 , when arbitration agreement is contained as

 a clause in an instrument on which stamp duty is payable, such arbitration

 agreement as an instrument, attracts the bar of Section 35 of the Stamp

 Act,1899. 11 (1971)1 SCC 545 12 (2007) 8 SCC 514 13 (2008) 4 SCC 720 Page 11 of 78 17.3. The learned counsel argues that separation of agreement from the

substantive contract is a legal fiction created by Section 16 of the Arbitration Act,

1996. Section 16 of Arbitration Act,1996 cannot be an exception to Section 35 of

the Indian Stamp Act, 1899.[ Bengal Immunity Co vs State of Bihar14 , Para 69,70

of Govt. of India v Vedanta15 ; Amazon V Future Retail16]

17.4. According to Mr. Sanghi, Doctrine of Separability and Kompetenz

Kompetenz has no bearing on the issue of enforceability of an arbitration

agreement when proper stamp duty is not paid on the instrument containing

the arbitration agreement. The learned counsel relied on the decision of UK

Supreme Court in Enka Insaat v OOO Insurance Company17 where it was held

that an “arbitration clause is nonetheless part of bundle of rights and obligations

recorded in the contractual document”. 17.5. The issue of stamping is to be looked into at the very threshold, even if it

is in exercise of Section 11 (6A) of the Arbitration Act, 1996, i.e. at the time, the

consideration with respect to appointment of arbitrator is undertaken.

According to the learned counsel, an instrument would exist in law only when

it is enforceable. Therefore, when the Court under Section 11(6A) of the

Arbitration Act, 1996 is considering the “existence” of the arbitration agreement,

it can examine the issue of non-stamping or of inadequate stamping at that

stage itself. 17.6. Highlighting that three modes are provided in NN Global (supra) i.e.

impounding, payment of stamp duty and then appointment of arbitrator, it is 14 (1955) 2 SCR 603 15 (2020)10 SCC 1 16 (2022) 1 SCC 209 17 [2020] UKSC 38 Page 12 of 78 argued that when an arbitrator is appointed in a Section 11 application, the

 Court is certainly “acting upon” the arbitration clause which is contended to be

 barred by the clear wordings of Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899. An

 Agreement, unless “enforceable”, is not in “existence”. 18. The learned Senior Advocate, Ms. Malvika Trivedi, intervening on behalf of the

 Appellant made the following submissions: There is no ambiguity in the language of the Statute and plain reading should

 be opted. 18.3. The powers of the Court under different provisions of law, as well as the

 restrictions created in the Stamp Act, 1899 apply to the proceedings conducted

 in accordance with Section 9 of the Arbitration Act,1996. It is, therefore, argued

 that even if the arbitration clause stands severed, the Court will have to reach

 a prima facie conclusion on whether the main agreement is enforceable in law

 before granting interim measures. Page 13 of 78 19. Learned Counsel for the Respondent No. 1, Mr. Ramakanth Reddy, took us

 through the relevant Lok Sabha debates before the enactment of the Arbitration

 Act,1996 and makes the following submissions: 20.1 Part I of Arbitration Act, 1996 deals with Section 8 , 9 and 11 whereas Section 45 is dealt with in Part II. Section 45 has been recognized as a provision

 falling under Part II which is a “complete code”. [See Chloro Controls v Severn

 Trent Water Purification Inc18] The expression “unless it finds” in Section 45 was

 interpreted per majority in Shin-Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. v Aksh Optifibre Ltd19 (for short “Shin-Etsu) as a consideration on a “prima facie basis” only. In 2019,

 Parliament amended Section 45 . It substituted the expression “unless it finds.”

 with “unless it prima facie finds”. It thus brings the statute in line with the

 position settled in Shin Etsu (supra). In this background, the Stamp Act, 1899 merely creates a temporary infliction till the stamp duty is recovered, with or 18 (2013) 1 SCC 641 19 (2005) 7 SCC 234 Page 14 of 78 without penalty (as the case may be). The affliction only attaches to the

 instrument and not the transaction. 20.2 The Arbitration Act, 1966 has always been held to be an exhaustive

 legislation in the nature of a complete Code. [Paragraphs 83-84, 89 in Fuerst

 Day Lawson Ltd. v. Jindal Exports Ltd.20] According to Mr. Panda , the

 impounding of the parent instrument that contains the arbitration agreement

 by a forum that exercises power under the complete Code, either under Section

 8 , 9 and 11 within Part I, or under Section 45 within Part-II, is inconsistent

 with the character of Arbitration Act, 1996 which is in the nature of a complete

 code. 21. Looking at the respective projection by the learned Amicus Curiae and other

counsels, the following questions fall for our consideration: F. The Statutory framework of the Stamp Act, 1899 20 (2011) 8 SCC 333 Page 15 of 78 22. Let us begin by examining the objective behind the enactment of the Stamp

Act, 1899 . The 67th Law Commission Report21 suggests that the idea of a fiscal

enactment for the purpose of collecting revenue for the State first originated in

Holland and thereafter, the Bengal Regulation 6 of 1797 was enacted in India.

This was initially limited to Bengal, Bihar, Orissa and Banaras. Subsequently,

various stamp regulations were introduced in Bombay and Madras. The Stamp

duties were primarily intended to compensate for the deficiency in public revenue

due to abolition of tax for the maintenance of police establishments, leviable on

“Indian Merchants and Traders”. However, the Regulation paved way for later

enactments relating to stamp duty. In 1860, the first Act relating to Stamp duties

was enacted in India. This was repealed by the Act of 1862, 1869, 1879 and

subsequently, the Act of 1899 was enacted which is the current legislation. 23. Reflecting on the objective of the Stamp Act, 1899 , a 3-judge bench of this

Court in Hindustan Steel Ltd. v. Dilip Construction Co.22 (for short “Hindustan

Steel”) speaking through J.C. Shah J. made the following pertinent observation: 24. Learned Amicus Curiae, Mr. Gourab Banerjee cited the decision of the

Pakistan Supreme Court in Union Insurance Company of Pakistan Ltd. v Hafiz

Muhammad Siddique23 which addressed this issue as early as 1978, following the

ratio in Hindustan Steel (supra). Faced with the question of whether there would

be any valid arbitral proceedings, if the arbitration agreement is unduly stamped 21 Law Commission of India, ‘ Indian Stamp Act ’ (67th Report, February,1997) available at
 https://lawcommissionofindia.nic.in/report_seventh/accessed on 11March 2023 22 (1969) 1 SCC 597 23 1978 PLD SC 279 Page 16 of 78 and hence, inadmissible in evidence under Section 35 of the Stamp Act,1899; the

Court attributed a purely fiscal purpose to stamping, holding that stamping is

not meant to interfere in commercial life. Discussing the provisions of the Stamp

Act,1899 including Section 61 which empowers appellate Courts to revise

decisions on “sufficiency” of stamps, Dorab Patel J concluded that: 25. Thus, the object is to see that the revenue for the State is realised to the

 utmost extent24 and not to affect the validity of the document. Its provisions

 must be construed narrowly to that extent. In the same judgment, it was

 elaborated by the Pakistan Supreme Court as under: 26. This Court in RIO Glass Solar SA v. Shriram EPC Limited and Ors.25 while

 holding that foreign awards need not be stamped noted that the Stamp

 Act,1899 reflects the fundamental policy of Indian law. A 2-judge bench

 speaking through Nariman J. noted as under: (2018) 18 SCC 313 Page 17 of 78 with the economy of the country is concerned, it would certainly come within
 the expression “fundamental policy of Indian law”. The Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ,
 being a fiscal statute levying stamp duty on instruments, is also an Act which
 deals with the economy of India, and would, on a parity of reasoning, be an Act
 reflecting the fundamental policy of Indian law.”
 [emphasis supplied] 27. The object of the Stamp Act can be further understood from S.

Krishnamurthy Aiyar’s Commentary26 on the Stamp Act, 1899 where discussing

the judgments in Hindustan Steel (supra) and J.M.A Raju v Krishnamurthy Bhatt 27 , the object is stated as under: 28. Section 35 proscribes authorities from considering unstamped documents

but the exceptions to the statutory bar under Section 35 as provided in

35(a),(b),(d) and (e) and Section 36 , would clearly suggest that non-payment of

stamp duty is a curable defect and the document would not be rendered void at

the first instance, if the requisite Stamp duty is not paid. Thus, there is no

absolute bar. It is also well-settled in law that failure to stamp a document Page 19 of 78 does not affect the validity of the transaction embodied in the document; it

merely renders a document inadmissible in evidence29.

28.1. K. Krishnamurthy30 in the Commentary on the Indian Stamp Act, 1899

discusses the proviso to Section 35 of Stamp Act, 1899 as under: 29. Similarly, Section 42(2) of the Stamp Act, 1899 which deals with the

consequence of non-stamping provides as follows: 30. The phraseology of Sections 36 , 35 and 42 of the Stamp Act,1899 was

considered in Hindustan Steel (supra). The factual backdrop therein was that

Hindustan Steel made an application under Section 30 and 33 of the Indian

Arbitration Act,1940 for setting aside the award on the ground that it was

unstamped and as such, void ab initio. This Court, however, held that there is

no bar against an instrument not duly stamped being “acted upon”, after

payment of stamp duty and penalty according to the procedure prescribed in

the Act. It was pertinently observed as follows: 31. The above would indicate that there is no absolute bar against the

instrument being “acted upon” since at a later stage the defect is curable.

31.1. Arguing that the above course is not available, Ms. Malavika Trivedi,

learned Senior Counsel for the intervenor had contended that Section 35 provides for a statutory bar, where the agreement shall not be admitted in

evidence for any purpose nor shall it be acted upon, registered or authenticated

by any such person or by any public officer. It is, therefore, submitted that

when a Court appoints an arbitrator under Section 11 of Arbitration Act,1996, it

is certainly “acting upon” the arbitration clause, which is barred by the clear

language of Section 35 of the Stamp Act,1899. Let us now proceed to test the

above argument. 31.2 In Hameed Joharan v. Abdul Salam34 in the context of an unstamped

decree for partition, 2 judges of this Court had the occasion to interpret Section

35 of the Stamp Act,1899 and the interplay with Article 136 of the Limitation

Act,1963 . It was contended in that case that an instrument not duly stamped,

cannot be “acted upon”. The issue therein was whether a decree passed in a

suit for partition can be acted upon/enforced, without engrossing on stamp

paper. It was also argued that the period of limitation begins to run from the 34 (2001) 7 SCC 573 Page 22 of 78 date when the decree becomes enforceable i.e. when the decree is engrossed on

the stamp paper. In this context, the Court opined that: P St J Langan, Maxwell on The Interpretation of Statutes (N M Tripathi Private Ltd, 1976);
P. 58-64 39 Justice G.P. Singh: Principles of Statutory Interpretation,(LexisNexis,2016) at P. 46; Page 25 of 78 G. The Statutory Scheme of the Arbitration Act,1996 33. It is apposite to refer to the parliamentary intent behind the enactment of

the Arbitration Act, 1996 which replaced the Arbitration Act,1940 . The first law

on the subject was the Arbitration Act, 1899 with limited application in the

Presidency towns of Calcutta, Bombay and Madras. Thereafter, the second

schedule of the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 dealt with

arbitration. The major consolidated legislation was the Arbitration Act,1940 which was based on the (English) Arbitration Act,1940. The Law Commission in

its 246th LCI Report(supra) notes that this arbitral regime was based on the

mistrust of the arbitral process and “The 1996 Act is based on the UNCITRAL

Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, 1985 and the UNCITRAL

Conciliation Rules, 1980.” The relevant part of the Statement of Object and

Reasons is extracted below: 34. Further, on reading Article 5 of the Model Law and Section 5 of the

Arbitration Act,1996, which cover the provisions for judicial intervention in

arbitral proceedings, it is clear that the Parliament went beyond Article 5 of

the UNCITRAL Model law and added a non-obstante clause. To substantiate

this point, it is pertinent to quote the provisions in full. Article 5 of the UNCITRAL Model Law,1985 reads as under: 35. Additionally, reflecting on the purpose of Article 5 , Dr. Peter Binder in

UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, 198540 notes: 36. A collective reading of the Statement of Object and Reasons of the

Arbitration Act,1996 r/w Section 5 of the Act, and Article 5 of the Model Law,

would make it abundantly clear that the legislative intent behind the

enactment was to inter alia, minimise the intervention of the Courts and

provide for timely resolution of disputes. By adding a non-obstante clause, the

Parliament through Section 5 made a significant departure from Article 5 and

gave an overriding effect over the provisions of any other law for the time being

in force. It circumscribed the role of the judicial authority, especially in context

of the Courts exercising any residual power that may accrue to them through

any provision in any law. 37. Let us now refer to the unamended Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act,1996

which is based on the Article 11 of the UNCITRAL Model law: 38. Even though the key provisions in the Arbitration Act,1996 are primarily

based on the UNCITRAL Model Law, the legislature has also made significant

departures, while amending Section 11 and Section 8 of the Arbitration Act,1996. 39. Next, it would be appropriate to briefly trace the jurisprudential history of Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act,1996 for the purpose of this reference. i) Evolution of law under Section 11(6) of Arbitration Act, 1996 40. A 2-judge Bench of this Court in ICICI Ltd. v. East Coast Boat Builders &

Engineers Ltd41 taking into consideration delays in appointment of arbitrators

under Section 11(6) , referred the question of jurisdiction of a Section 11 judge

to consider arbitrability of a dispute to a three-judge bench. It was noted that

in KR Raveendranathan v. State of Kerala42, another two Judge Bench of this

Court had already referred to a larger Bench, a similar question. 41. Thereafter, in Sundaram Finance Ltd. v. NEPC India Ltd43 , a 2-judge bench

opined that: 42. The above obiter was affirmed by a 2-judge Bench in Ador Samia Pvt Ltd. v.

Peekay Holdings Ltd44 (for short “Ador Samia”). Dealing with the question of

appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, from an order made by

the Chief Justice of a High Court appointing an arbitrator, this Court held that

an order under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act,1996 was an administrative

order. This was affirmed by a three- Judge Bench in Konkan Railways Corpn v. 41 (1998)9 SCC 728 42 (1996)10 SCC 35 43 (1999)2 SCC 479 44 (1999)8 SCC 572 Page 29 of 78 Mehul Construction Co45 (for short “Konkan Railways(I)”) where the matter came

up for reconsideration of the ratio in Ador Samia (supra). It was observed as

under: 43. The three-judge bench decision was subsequently affirmed by five judges in Konkan Railways Corpn v. Mehul Construction Co46 (for short “Konkan Railways

(II)”). This Court held therein that the power exercised by the Chief Justice or

'any person or institution' designated by him under section 11 is not

adjudicatory. Following a detailed review of the precedents, it was held that the

function of the Chief Justice or his designate under Section 11 is to only "fill

the gap left" and appoint an arbitrator for expeditious constitution and

commencement of arbitration proceedings. 44. The seven judges of this Court in SBP (supra) overturned the decision in Konkan Railways (II ) (supra). It was held therein that deciding an application

for appointment is an exercise of ‘judicial’ power, as opposed to an

‘administrative’ power and that the Court is also authorized to record evidence: 45. However, Justice C.K. Thakker dissented from the majority opinion and

came to the conclusion that it was an administrative power in the following

passage: 46. The four main reasons behind the dissent can be summarised as
under: 47. In the dissenting opinion in Paragraph 95 & 96, Justice Thakkar further

held as under: control. It is thus a rule of chronological priority. Kompetenz-
 Kompetenz is a widely accepted feature of modern international
 arbitration, and allows the Arbitral Tribunal to decide its own
 jurisdiction including ruling on any objections with respect to the
 existence or validity of the arbitration agreement, subject to final
 review by a competent court of law i.e. subject to Section 34 of the
 Act.” 48. The above line of reasoning in Justice Thakkar’s dissent resonates with the

internationally recognized principle of Kompetenz Komptenz and the doctrine of

separability. The majority opinion in SBP (supra) suggests that a Section 11 Court could conduct a mini-trial at the pre-referral stage. The jurisprudential

correctness of SBP(supra) has been doubted and was considered as excessive

judicial intervention by the 246th LCI Report(supra). It has been legislatively

overruled by subsequent amendments in the Arbitration Act,1996 which will be

discussed later in this judgment. 49. Thereafter, a two-judge bench in Boghara Polyfab (supra) which followed

SBP(supra), allowed the court to examine, inter alia, the following issues: 50. The 246th LCI report(supra), discussing both SBP(supra) and Boghara (supra)

significantly noted that the real issue is the “scope” and “nature” of judicial

intervention: 51. As regards nature, the 246th LCI Report(supra) noted that the exposition of

law on the point is to be found in Shin Etsu (supra) where this Court while

interpreting Section 45 of the Arbitration Act,1996 held that the issue should be

looked at on a “prima facie” basis only. On scope, it was recommended that the

Court should restrict to the examination of whether the agreement is “null and

void” and if the Court finds that the agreement does not exist, that decision

would be final. It made the following recommendation as regards Section 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act,1996: ii) Post-2015 Regime: Insertion of Section 11(6A) 53. There has been a major shift post-2015 amendment with the insertion of Section 11(6A) in the Arbitration Act,1996 . The legislative intent is clear from

the plain reading of Section 11(6A) as extracted below: 54. The basis for this amendment, as explained in 246th LCI Report(supra), was

to undo the effect of SBP(supra) and Boghara (supra) which widened the scope

of inquiry and intervention by a Court under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration

Act,1996. Section 11(6A) uses the phrase “notwithstanding any judgment,

decree or order of any Court” and effectively overrules judgments which

widened the scope of inquiry. Section 11(6A) does not use the word “null and

void” as recommended by the Law Commission. Thus, the legislature went one

step further and confined the examination to the “existence” of the arbitration

agreement. 55. Now let us notice the language used in Sections 8 , 11 and 45 of the

Arbitration Act,1996, all of which deal with the power of Courts at the pre-

arbitral stage. 55.1. Section 8 of the Arbitration Act,1996 titled “Power to refer parties to

arbitration where there is an arbitration agreement” has been amended in 2015 Page 34 of 78 with the following language: “unless it finds that prima facie no valid arbitration

agreement exists” . 55.2. Section 45 in Part II titled “Power of judicial authority to refer parties to

arbitration” has also been amended and notified in 2019. The amendment in Section 45 was made after the judgment of three judges in Shin Etsu (supra)

where in a case of international arbitration, the question before this Court was

when an application under Section 45 is moved, is the Court required to pass a

prima facie finding or a final-finding based on the merits of the case, which

would result in a full-fledged trial? In the majority opinion, it was held as

under: 56. On reading the language in Section 11(6A) with Section 5 of the Arbitration

Act1996, and an interpretation based on legislative intent, it is apparent that

the scope under Section 11(6A) is very narrow. iii)Post- 2019 Amendment and the Report of the High-
 Level Committee to Review the Institutionalisation of
 Arbitration Mechanism in India. 57. The Committee led by Justice Srikrishna48 had recommended further

changes to the Arbitration Act, 1996 . It had recommended for the deletion of Section 11(6A) with the power of appointment of arbitrators being left entirely to

the arbitral institutions. Drawing inspiration from Singapore, Hong Kong,

United Kingdom etc., the Committee recommended that this would prevent

further delays and set the momentum for institutional arbitration in India.

Under the amended Section 11(6) , the appointment of arbitrators is to be done

by the arbitral institution: 58. Insertion of Section 6(B) by Act 3 of 2016 which is yet to notified reads as

 under: 47 59. It would be apposite to refer now to the prevalent position amongst the

most-preferred arbitral institutions i.e. the International Chamber of

Commerce Court (ICC Court), the London Court of International Arbitration

(LCIA), the Hong Kong International Arbitration Centre (HKIAC), the Singapore

International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) and the Arbitration Institute of the

Stockholm Chambers of Commerce (SCC) which were mentioned in the report

of the High-level Committee and those can be broadly noted as under:- The arbitration shall be terminated if the Court is not so
 satisfied. Any decision by the Registrar or the Court that the
 arbitration shall proceed is without prejudice to the power of the
 Tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction. 28.2 The Tribunal shall have the power to rule on its own
 jurisdiction, including any objections with respect to the
 existence, validity or scope of the arbitration agreement. An
 arbitration agreement which forms part of a contract shall be
 treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the
 contract.” 5. Arbitration Institute of SCC Rules: Article 12(i). Dismissal
 The Board shall dismiss a case, in whole or in part, if: Kompetenz and role of Courts is limited to preliminary prima facie examination.

A reading of the above rules would also show that arbitral institutions have

recognized the prima- facie test to determine the existence of the arbitration

agreement. Discussing the rules of the major international arbitral institutions, Page 38 of 78 William Park in an article titled “Challenging Arbitral Jurisdiction: The Role of

Institutional Rules”49 writes: “46. In Fiona Trust and Holding Corpn. v. Privalov [Fiona Trust and
 Holding Corpn. v. Privalov, (2007) 1 All ER (Comm) 891 : 2007 Bus LR
 686 (CA)] , the Court of Appeal emphasised the need to make a fresh
 start in imparting business efficacy to arbitral agreements. The Court of
 Appeal held that : (Bus LR pp. 695 H-696 B & F, paras 17 & 19)
 “17. … For our part we consider that the time has now come for a line of
 some sort to be drawn and a fresh start made at any rate for cases arising
 in an international commercial context. Ordinary businessmen would be
 surprised at the nice distinctions drawn in the cases and the time taken up
 by argument in debating whether a particular case falls within one set of
 words or another very similar set of words. If businessmen go to the trouble
 of agreeing that their disputes be heard in the courts of a particular country
 or by a tribunal of their choice they do not expect (at any rate when they are
 making the contract in the first place) that time and expense will be taken in
 lengthy argument about the nature of particular causes of action and
 whether any particular cause of action comes within the meaning of the
 particular phrase they have chosen in their arbitration clause. If any
 businessman did want to exclude disputes about the validity of a contract,
 it would be comparatively simple to say so. *** 19. One of the reasons given in the cases for a liberal construction of an
 arbitration clause is the presumption in favour of one-stop arbitration. It is
 not to be expected that any commercial man would knowingly create a
 system which required that the court should first decide whether the
 contract should be rectified or avoided or rescinded (as the case might be)
 and then, if the contract is held to be valid, required the arbitrator to resolve
 the issues that have arisen. This is indeed a powerful reason for a liberal
 construction.”
 Arbitration must provide a one-stop forum for resolution of disputes.
 The Court of Appeal held that if arbitrators can decide whether a contract
 is void for initial illegality, there is no reason why they should not decide
 whether a contract is procured by bribery, just as much as they can
 decide whether a contract has been vitiated by misrepresentation or non-
 disclosure. [Emphasis supplied] 64. Thus, the one-stop arbitration approach would ensure that all issues on

initial illegality or whether a contract is void can be decided by the arbitral

institutions subject, of course, to the ultimate supervisory jurisdiction of the

Courts. An arbitral award can be set aside by Courts as per the legislative 51 (2007) 1 All ER(Comm) 891 (Paras 17-18) Page 40 of 78 mandate in Section 34 of the Arbitration Act,1996. This would prevent

multiplicity of proceedings in Courts and tribunals and ensure minimal

judicial intervention. H. Discussion on SMS Tea: 65. Having broadly discussed the legislative scheme of the Stamp Act,1899 and

the Arbitration Act,1996, let us now examine the correctness of the decisions

referred to in NN Global (supra). 66. The judicial position on the enforceability of an arbitration agreement

contained in an unstamped or insufficiently stamped agreement can be traced

from this Court’s 2011 decision in SMS Tea (supra). The facts of the case were

that the appellant was granted lease of two tea estates for a term of 30 years.

The leases deed contained an arbitration clause. On abrupt eviction by the

respondent from the tea estates, the appellant filed an application under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 for the appointment of arbitrator. The

learned Chief Justice of Guwahati High Court dismissed the Section 11 application and held that the lease deed was compulsorily registrable under Section 17 of the Registration Act,1908 and Section 106 of the Transfer of

Property Act,1882 ; and as the lease deed was not registered, even the

arbitration clause would be rendered invalid. The matter reached this Court

where one of the questions was whether an arbitration agreement in an

unregistered instrument which is not duly stamped, is valid and enforceable. It

was observed that the arbitration agreement in an unstamped or insufficiently

stamped instrument is invalid, given that Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899

expressly bars the authority before which such unstamped or insufficiently Page 41 of 78 stamped instrument is presented to act on such an instrument. At this stage, it

is important to keep in mind that decision in SMS (supra)came at a time when

SBP (supra) and Boghara Polyfab (supra) continued to hold the field i.e. prior to

the insertion of Section 11(6A) to the Act. Thus, even at the Section 11 stage,

under the law which existed before the 2015 Amendment, the Court had wide

powers and could also conduct detailed adjudication. Even though this Court

in SMS Tea (supra) succinctly recognized the doctrine of separability in the

context of Registration Act, 1908 , it held that strict and mandatory provisions

of the Stamp Act,1899 on non-payment of Stamp duty could not be read

harmoniously with the relevant provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1996 . It was

held as under: 67. The judgment in SMS Tea (supra) has been upheld in Naina Thakkar(supra)

and Black Pearl Hotels v Planet M. Retail Ltd.52 (for short “Black Pearl Hotels”). It has also been cited with approval in a recent judgement by 3 judges of this

Court in Dharmaratnakara (supra). As noted earlier, the Court in Garware (supra) also followed SMS Tea (supra) which has been cited with approval in Vidya Drolia (supra). This legal proposition is doubted by this Court in NN

Global (supra) and referred to us. 52 (2017) 4 SCC 498 Page 42 of 78 68. Section 11(6A) as we have noted above begins with a non-obstante clause

viz. “notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any Court” and

effectively overrules all judgments which widened the ambit of examination. 69. The first submission before us by Mr. Gagan Sanghi, learned Counsel for

the Appellant on this aspect was that the observations of two different three-

Judge Bench decisions in Dharmaratnakara (supra) and Black Pearl

Hotels (supra) have not been considered in NN Global (supra) which is another

three-judge bench and that this seriously calls into question the finding of NN

Global (supra). 70. It is significant to note here that the above two judgments did not consider

the recent 11(6A) Amendment. Black Pearl Hotels (supra) was delivered pre-

11(6A) and hence stands legislatively overruled. In Dharmaratnakara (supra), it

appears that the amendment to Section 11(6A) was not brought to the notice of

the Court and the earlier judgment in Garware (supra) was not considered.

This could also be because the Court considered the order which was passed

prior to introduction of Section 11(6A) . In Dharmaratnakara (supra), the issue

before the Court was whether a document executed between parties was a

lease deed or an “agreement to lease”, and whether arbitration could be

invoked under the said document. Even after determination by the Registrar

(Judicial) of the Karnataka High Court that the concerned document was a

lease deed, the deficit stamp duty was not paid. The Court relied on SMS

Tea (supra), to hold that the arbitration agreement could not be acted upon,

unless stamp duty is paid. Page 43 of 78 71. From the discussion above, it is clear that Dharmaratnakara (supra) does

not lay down the correct position in light of the post-2015 amendment regime. Through the Amending Act , SMS Tea (supra) stands legislatively overruled. 72. The correct exposition of law after the insertion of Section 11(6A) is to be

found in Duro Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram Port Ltd53 (for short “Duro

Felguera”) where it was held that, "(a)fter the (2015) amendment, all that the

courts need to see is whether an arbitration agreement exists--nothing more,

nothing less. The legislative policy and purpose is essentially to minimise the

Court's intervention at the stage of appointing the arbitrator and this intention as

incorporated in Section 11 (6-A) ought to be respected." This has been re-affirmed

by a 3-judge bench in Mayavati Trading Private Limited v. Pradyuat Deb

Burman54 where it was held as under: 73.The following extract from Pravin Electricals (P) Ltd. v. Galaxy Infra & Engg.

(P) Ltd.55 is equally pertinent where the Court interpreted Section 11 (6A) to

conclusively hold that a Section 11 judge cannot conduct a mini-trial at that

stage: Large pieces of the jigsaw puzzle that forms the documentary
 evidence between the parties in this case remained unfilled. The
 emails dated 22nd July, 2014 and 25th July, 2014 produced here
 for the first time as well as certain correspondence between
 SBPDCL and the Respondent do show that there is some dealing
 between the Appellant and the Respondent qua a tender floated by
 SBPDCL, but that is not sufficient to conclude that there is a
 concluded contract between the parties, which contains an
 arbitration clause. Given the inconclusive nature of the finding by
 CFSL together with the signing of the agreement in Haryana by
 parties whose registered offices are at Bombay and Bihar qua
 works to be executed in Bihar; given the fact that the Notary who
 signed the agreement was not authorised to do so and various
 other conundrums that arise on the facts of this case, it is unsafe
 to conclude, one way or the other, that an arbitration agreement
 exists between the parties. The prima facie review spoken of in Vidya Drolia (supra) can lead to only one conclusion on the facts of
 this case - that a deeper consideration of whether an arbitration
 agreement exists between the parties must be left to an Arbitrator
 who is to examine the documentary evidence produced before him
 in detail after witnesses are cross-examined on the same. For all
 these reasons, we set aside the impugned judgment of the Delhi
 High Court in so far as it conclusively finds that there is an
 Arbitration Agreement between the parties.”

 [emphasis supplied] 74. At this point, it would suffice to note that the Court in SMS Tea (supra) held

that an arbitral agreement would be rendered inadmissible in evidence if the

underlying contract is not stamped. It did not, however, state that an

unstamped arbitration agreement would be rendered void as held in Garware (supra) in the later decision. While SMS Tea (supra) extended the

separability presumption in the context of the Registration Act, 1908 we will

notice below that this presumption can also be extended in the context of Stamp Act,1899 through harmonious construction. I. Discussion on Garware Page 45 of 78 75. The facts in Garware (supra) were that a sub-contract, for the installation of

geo-textile tubes embankment with toe mound at village Pentha in Odisha, was

provided by the employer for prevention from coastal erosion. Owing to

disputes between parties, the sub-contract was terminated. The Respondent

filed a petition under Section 11 which was allowed by the Bombay High Court

and sole arbitrator was appointed. On appeal, this Court primarily relied on SMS Tea (supra) to hold that the arbitration agreement in an unstamped

document cannot be acted upon and hence, an arbitrator could not be

appointed until the unstamped agreement in question was impounded. Despite

considering the amended Section 11(6A) and the 246th LCI Report(supra) to note

that SBP(supra) and Boghara (supra) have been overruled, the Court held that

"SMS Tea Estates ha(d), in no manner, been touched by the amendment of Section 11 (6-A)" since it was not excluded by either the 246th LCI Report(supra)

or the Statement of Object and Reasons of the 2015 Amendment. It was further

held that as per Section 2(h) of the Indian Contract Act1872, an agreement

becomes a contract only if it is enforceable by law and hence, an unstamped

document would be unenforceable due to the bar under Section 35 of the

Stamp Act,1899. The following paragraph has been doubted by NN

Global (supra): 76. The above proposition of law in Garware (supra) appears to be incorrect. As

noted earlier, the judgment in SMS Tea (supra) stands legislatively overruled as

it was delivered in the pre-2015 amendment regime. Even though there is no

express mention in the 246th LCI Report(supra), the non-obstante clause

effectively overrules it. 77. Now let us consider Section 2(g) and 2(h) of the Indian Contract Act,1872

which read as under: ab-initio, if it is not stamped. This would however be contrary to the

 legislative scheme of the Stamp Act,1899 as per which non-

 stamping/insufficient stamping is a curable defect as discussed earlier.

 Moreover, stamp duty is levied on the instrument and not the transaction.56

 77.1. In Gulzari Lal Malwari v Ram Gopal57 Lord Williams J while discussing Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 noted that there is no provision in the Stamp Act,1899 which renders a document invalid: J. Interplay between the Stamp Act 1899, Contract Act 1872 and the Arbitration

 Act ,1996 i) Arbitration Act,1996 is a special legislation 78. In order to understand the interplay between the three Acts, reference to

the relevant provisions is necessary. i) Stamp Act,1899 : The residuary entry in Article 5(c) of Schedule I of the Indian Stamp Act,1899 with the title “Agreements” as noted earlier, states “if not otherwise provided

for” which, as held by us, brings under its ambit even an Arbitration

Agreement. Now, Instrument is defined under Section 2(14) as under: Even if a written arbitration agreement is not signed, the parties can

 still be bound to an arbitration agreement58. However, Section 17 of 58 Chennai Container Terminal Pvt Ltd v. Union of India , 2007 3 Arb LR 218 (Mad), Fisser v.
International Bank, 282 F.2d 231, 233 (2d Cir 1960), Travancore Devaswom Board v. Page 50 of 78 the Stamp Act, 1899 provides for the timing of stamping i.e. before or

 at the time of execution and the term “execution” is defined in the Stamp Act,1899 to mean “signature” iv) Even though arbitral “awards” are liable to stamp duty under Item 12

 of the Stamp Act, 1899 and are specifically mentioned in Schedule I ;

 the arbitration agreement for the purpose of stamp duty, gets covered

 only under the residuary entry viz “if not otherwise provided for” in Article 5(c). The Stamp Act,1899 does not specifically refer to an

 arbitration agreement. v) As per Section 7 of the Arbitration Act, 1996, Arbitration Agreement

 can even be non-contractual. vi) Section 7(4)(c) of Arbitration Act,1996 envisages that the scope of

 arbitration is not limited to the dispute initially referred to arbitration,

 but also encompasses any disputes that are included in the pleadings

 of the parties i.e. statement of claim and defence.

78.2 The Appointment Of Arbitrators By The Chief Justice Of India Scheme, 1996

provides inter alia for the original or certified copy of the “arbitration agreement”

for a Section 11(6) application. I completely agree with the opinion of my

Learned Brother, Justice K.M. Joseph that an arbitration agreement has to

comply with the indispensable requirements under the Contract Act,1872 such

as competency to contract and presence of sound mind. However, when it

comes to “formal” validity which could include requirements of signature,

stamps, seals; I’m unable to concur that the evidentiary bar under Section 35 Panchamy Pack, 2004 13 SCC 510; Also see, David St. John Sutton, Judith Gill and
Matthew Gearing, Russell on Arbitration(24th Edition); P. 49 Page 51 of 78 of the Stamp Act,1899 should be juxtaposed with Section 2(g) and (2h) of the Contract Act,1872 to make the agreement “void”. For example, as per Section 10 of the Contract Act,1872, even oral agreements are valid but as per the “form”

of arbitration agreement provided in Section 7 of Arbitration Act,1996 , it has to

necessarily be in writing. Another point worth noting is that if an arbitration

agreement can be for example, even non-contractual and does not necessarily

require signature, how far the general provisions of Stamp Act,1899 and the

Contract Act,1872 can apply to prove “formal” validity of an arbitration

agreement produced under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act, 1996? Section

2(h) of the Contract Act,1872 states that an agreement enforceable by law is a

contract but a plain reading of Section 7 of the Arbitration Act,1996 may also

prove that an “arbitration agreement” can be non-contractual. This is not to

say that the provisions of the Contract Act,1872 or Stamp Act,1899 would not

apply. As rightly held in Vidya Drolia (supra) and noted by my Learned Brother

Justice K.M. Joseph, pre-conditions to formation of contract under the Contract Act,1872 must be met which includes free consent of the parties,

absence of fraud and misrepresentation etc. However, in my view, in this

reference, we are concerned with a formal requirement. The point being that

when a special law provides for the specific requirements for the “formal”

validity of an arbitration agreement, it cannot be rendered void by a general law.

An Arbitration agreement has special attributes59 and is not a conventional

agreement in that sense. Moreover, none of the provisions of the Stamp

Act,1899 would lead us to the conclusion that an arbitration agreement would 59 O.P. Malhotra and Indu Malhotra, The Law and Practice of Arbitration and Conciliation,
Lexis Nexis,2nd Edition; P. 270 Page 52 of 78 be invalid/void-ab-initio when it is not stamped. Thus, the conclusion in Garware (supra) that an unstamped agreement would be rendered void is not

only inconsistent with Section 7 of the Arbitration Act,1996 but also the Stamp

Act,1899 as per which a document can at most, be rendered inadmissible in

evidence. 78.3 In the context of Arbitration Act,1996 being a Special law, CR

Datta’s treatise titled Law Relating to Commercial & Domestic

Arbitration60 notes: Union of India v Popular Construction Co 2001 (8) SCC 470; United India Insurance Co. Ltd.
V Kumar Texturisers AIR 1999 Bom 118 Page 53 of 78 law other than the Arbitration Act,1996 . As argued by the learned Counsel for

the Intervenor, Debesh Panda, the special nature of the Act is also established

from the non-obstante clause in Section 5 of the Arbitration Act,1996. On the

Arbitration Act being a self-contained code, Justice Indu Malhotra61, comments

as under: ii)Harmonious Construction 79.It would be apposite to refer to the application of principle of harmonious

construction as explained by Kasliwal, J. while expressing his partial dissent

in St. Stephen's College v. University of Delhi62 : 79.2. Moreover, when the words of the statute in Section 11 of the

Arbitration Act ,1996 do not mention “validity” or even “inoperable and

incapable of being performed” as mentioned in Section 45 of the Arbitration

Act,1996 or “prima facie no valid arbitration agreement” in Section 8 of the

Arbitration Act, 1996, it must be understood that the general words in a

different statute such as the Contract Act, 1872 cannot override the specific

words used in the special law. That is to say, that an arbitration agreement

cannot be rendered “void” on insufficient stamping by a Section 11 judge

when the scope of examination is only limited to the “existence” of the

arbitration agreement and not “validity”. Page 56 of 78 79.3. Coming back to the evidentiary bar under Section 35 of the Stamp

Act,1899 it is important to understand that since the scope of a Section 11 judge is limited, the court cannot receive evidence in such cases. Before the

2015 Amendment to the Arbitration Act,1996 , as per the position laid down

in SBP(supra), the Chief Justice had wide powers to receive evidence,

including affidavits, and get evidence recorded at the stage of appointment

of arbitrator. Under the amended Section 11 , as noted before, the scope is

“confined” to the examination of the “existence” of the arbitration agreement.

Thus, post-amendment, it can most certainly not admit evidence. A Section

11 Court is “not an authority to receive evidence” as provided in Section 35 of the Stamp Act,1899. Moreover, it is an undisputed position that Section

35 of the Arbitration Act,1996 does not preclude an arbitrator to impound or

admit evidence. It states “any person having by law or consent of parties,

authority to receive evidence.” Thus, the statutory bar under Section 35 of

the Stamp Act,1899 would not apply when a document is produced at the

stage of a Section 11 proceeding of the Arbitration Act,1996 .

79.4. It is essential to interpret the special law in a way that gives effect to

its specific provisions, while also ensuring that it is consistent with the

general law to the extent possible. Impounding at the stage of Section 11 would stall arbitral proceedings right at the outset because of the statutory

bar under Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899. One way to harmonise Section

35 of Stamp Act,1899 and Section 11 of the Arbitration Act,1996 is for the Section 11 judge to defer necessary stamping and impounding to the

arbitrator/collector, as applicable. A plain reading of Section 35 of the Stamp Page 57 of 78 Act,1899 makes it clear that it does not preclude an Arbitrator or Collector

to impound the unstamped/insufficiently stamped document.

79.5. In this context, even if we are to assume that the Stamp Act,1899 is a

substantive law, the view taken by us is not intended to undermine the Stamp Act,1899 in any substantial way. This is because the primary

objective being revenue generation, could still be achieved even if the

collection of stamp duty is deferred to the arbitrator and not at the stage of a

judge referring the matter for arbitration. Additionally, if such a contention

is raised before the referring judge, she/he can also caution the arbitrator

on the aspect of no/deficient stamp duty on the concerned instrument.

Such a course will also protect the interest of the revenue and the

substantive law. K. Implication of changing nature of transaction and the advent of the
 technology 80. As we are proceeding on the basis that an arbitration agreement is liable

 to stamp duty, this Court cannot also be oblivious of the technological

 advancements as commercial transactions are going beyond pen and paper

 agreements. The 2015 amendment to Section 7 of the Arbitration Act,1996

 which defines arbitration agreement recognizes electronic communication,

 bringing the process in conformity with Article 7 of the UNCITRAL Model law

 which was amended in 2006. It modernized and broadened the form of

 arbitration agreement to conform with international contract practices. The

 exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunication

 including communication through electronic means which provide a record of

 the agreement are now recognized as valid arbitration agreement. Page 58 of 78 80.1.Dr. Peter Binder in International Commercial Arbitration and Mediation in

UNCITRAL Model Law Jurisdictions64 notes: Recently, the Stockholding Corporation of India Ltd. has been authorised to

provide e-stamp services, which allows for the payment of stamp duties for

some Indian States. The Indian Stamp Act (Collection of Stamp-Duty Through

Stock Exchanges, Clearing Corporations and Depositories) Rules 2019 as

amended through the Finance Act,2021 has been brought about to build a

pan-India securities market and to enhance revenue. It amended the definition

of “execution” to include signature even in electronic form.

80.3. However, the definition of “duly stamped” in Section 2(11) of the Stamp

Act,1899 remains unchanged: 80.9 In the context of the evolving law, it is important to observe that although

an arbitration agreement is liable to stamp duty under the residuary entry, the

technicality of stamping places hurdles in ensuring efficiency and efficacy in

arbitration proceedings. An arbitration agreement does not even mandatorily

require signature for it to be valid as per Section 7 of the Arbitration Act,1996. The Stamp Act,1899 is rooted in the past and does not take into account the

changing nature of transactions and enactments such as the Arbitration

Act,1996 . This is an aspect which would require the attention of the legislature. J. Doctrine of Separability 81. It appears that the Court in Garware (supra) rejected the concept of

separability when it held: 81.2 The argument advanced by the learned Counsel, Gagan Sanghi for the

Appellants that the doctrine of separability is a legal fiction, should not be

accepted in light of the well-established jurisprudence in India as this doctrine

has been consistently upheld by this Court74. Moreover, it stands codified in Section 16(1) of the Arbitration Act,1996 which reads as under: Therefore, if an arbitration agreement remains unaffected even if the main

contract is null/void on issues of fraud or misrepresentation, it should not

logically render an arbitration agreement, void on a technicality/formality, like

stamping. The underlying rationale behind the principle of separability would

then be made nugatory. The idea that an arbitration agreement is separate and

independent with its own validity requirements, is to ensure that there is no

hindrance to the enforceability of an arbitration agreement. This doctrine is

also important to reduce circumstances in which the arbitral process may be

halted/delayed. In SMS Tea (supra), it was noted that the doctrine of

separability can extend to an unregistered document, but not to an unstamped

document as the bar under Section 35 is absolute. As I have noted above, the

bar under Section 35 can be cured and the stamp duty can be collected at a

later stage. Thus, NN Global (supra) rightly overruled SMS Tea (supra) on this

aspect. Historically, the separability doctrine was introduced in order to protect

the arbitration clause which, in turn, enabled arbitrators to adjudicate on the

validity of the main contract75. Even though the doctrine of separability and

Kompetenz Kompetenz are distinct as noted in NN Global (supra), reconciling the

two principles would ensure that an arbitrator can rule on the objections of 75 HM Holtzmann and JE Neuhaus,A Guide to the UNCITRAL Model Law on International
Commercial Arbitration: Legislative History and Commentary (Kluwer Law and Taxation The
Hague 1989) 485 Page 65 of 78 validity, existence as well as necessary stamping, if required. The doctrine of

Kompetenz Kompetenz is discussed in greater detail in the next section. 82.Turning to the decision in Garware (supra), it appears that the Court in Garware (supra) rejected the concept of severability only by relying on

SBP(Supra) when it held: 83.In SBP(Supra),as we have noticed earlier in this opinion, stood legislatively

overruled as a judge at the Section 11 stage could conduct detailed

adjudication and make a conclusive determination at the pre-referral stage

without deferring it to the arbitrator. As highlighted above, Section 16 and Section 11 of the Arbitration Act,1996 indicates that there is an overlap when it

comes to the word “existence”. As Section 16 specifically deals with both

existence and validity whereas Section 11 only deals with existence, the former

should be given more weight. As such, the doctrine of Kompetenz Kompetenz

comes into play as the arbitrator can decide on the validity of an agreement

and the referral judge needs to confine his scrutiny to the existence of the

arbitration agreement. However, in SBP(supra) it was generally held that the

referral judge should decide on all aspects. If such a view is to be applied for

answering the present reference, a mini-trial will have to be conducted by the

referral judge. The question to be asked here is should we then push the Section 11 judge to deal with so many things that he/she left in a situation like Page 66 of 78 Little Alice in the play Alice in Wonderland as described in Praveen

Electricals (supra)? 84. In the referral order in NN Global (supra), the paragraph 29 in Garware (supra) was doubted. In the Garware (supra) decision, this Court relied

on United India Insurance Co. ltd. v. Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. 76 (for short “Hyundai Engg.). The paragraph 29 is extracted below for the

discussion to be followed thereafter: Narbheram Power and Steel (P) Ltd77 which never had the occasion to interpret Section 11(6A) . For these reasons, I am of the considered view that applying

the Hyundai (supra) principle to Garware (supra) is not acceptable. Consequently,

the finding of the Court in Para 147.1 in Vidya Drolia (supra) placing reliance on

the above paragraph viz. Para 29 in Garware (supra) also appears to be

incorrect. The proposition of law in NN Global (supra) is therefore found to be

correct. L. Kompetenz Kompetenz and the issue of Judicial Logjam in India 85. Legal scholars have noted that the principle of Kompetenz Komptenz has

been adopted in various forms in different countries78. Article 16 of the

UNCITRAL Model Law adopted the principle of Kompetenz Kompetenz providing

that an arbitral tribunal has the jurisdiction to investigate and rule on its own

jurisdiction. In a recent decision of the US Supreme Court in Henry Schein, Inc.

v Archer and White Sales, Inc79, it was held that where an arbitration clause 77 (2018) 6 SCC 534 78 John J. Barcello III, Who Decides the Arbitrators’ Jurisdiction? Separability and
Competence-Competence in Transnational Perspective, Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational
Law, Vol. 36, No.4, October 2003 79 2019 SCCOnline US SC 1 Page 68 of 78 delegates the decision of arbitrability to arbitrators, Courts should have no say

even if they consider the argument in favour as “wholly groundless”. Justice

Brett Kavanaugh opined: The situation is not different today as was recently observed by this Court in

 M/s Shree Vishnu Constructions v. The Engineer in Chief Military Engineering

 Service and others83 where it was noted that several applications under 82 (1981) 4 SCC 634 83 SLP(C) No. 5306/2022 dated 1.4.2022 Page 71 of 78 section 11 were decided and disposed of after a period of four years which

 defeated the very purpose of the amended Arbitration Act,1996 . Such

 observation was made on a detailed report/statement on the number of

 pending section 11 applications before the Telangana High Court. This Court

 noticed that even an application filed in the year 2006 was still pending. The

 High Court Chief Justices across the country were accordingly requested to

 ensure that applications under section 11 , be decided within a period of six

 months. 85.7 This Court in the recent judgment in Intercontinental Hotels Group (India)

 Private Ltd. v. Waterline Hotels Pvt. Ltd84 on the issue of insufficiently

 /incorrectly stamped documents, proceeded to appoint the arbitrator under Section 11(6) , considering the time-sensitivity while dealing with arbitration. It

 left open the issue of stamping to be decided at a later stage.

 85.8 Importantly, Section 11(13) of the Arbitration Act,1996 provides that

 appointment of Arbitrators should be made within 60 days and such a

 provision makes it amply clear that substantive adjudication cannot be done

 by Courts, at the pre-referral stage. This was canvassed in Garware (supra)

 but the Court instead set a deadline for 45 days for adjudication and 15 days

 for appointment of arbitrator with the following observation: N. Discussion on Vidya Drolia 86. This case was concerned with the arbitrability of landlord-tenant disputes

and the forum before which the issue of arbitrability must first be raised. The

paragraph 146 as quoted below may require a relook in the context of the issue

under consideration. “146. We now proceed to examine the question, whether the word
 "existence" in Section 11 merely refers to contract formation (whether
 there is an arbitration agreement) and excludes the question of
 enforcement (validity) and therefore the latter falls outside the
 jurisdiction of the court at the referral stage. On jurisprudentially and
 textualism it is possible to differentiate between existence of an
 arbitration agreement and validity of an arbitration agreement. Such
 interpretation can draw support from the plain meaning of the word
 "existence". However, it is equally possible, jurisprudentially and on
 contextualism, to hold that an agreement has no existence if is not
 enforceable and not binding. Existence of an arbitration agreement
 presupposes a valid agreement which would be enforced by the court by
 relegating the parties to arbitration. Legalistic and plain meaning
 interpretation would be contrary to the contextual background including
 the definition clause and would result in unpalatable consequences. A Page 73 of 78 reasonable and just interpretation of existence requires understanding
 the context. the purpose and the relevant legal norms applicable for a
 binding and enforceable arbitration agreement. An agreement evidenced
 in writing has no meaning unless the parties can be compelled to adhere
 and abide by the terms. A party cannot sue and claim rights based on
 an unenforceable document. Thus, there are good reasons to hold that
 an arbitration agreement exists only when it is valid and legal. A void
 and unenforceable understanding is no agreement to do anything.
 Existence of an arbitration agreement means an arbitration agreement
 that meets and satisfies the statutory requirements of both the
 Arbitration Act and the Contract Act and when it is enforceable in law.”

86.1. As can be seen, the Court equated existence and validity and it was held

that a contract only exists if it is valid. And it is valid only if it is enforceable.

As far as the issue in the present case is concerned, the authors’ Comments in

Russell on Arbitration85(24th Edition) in the context of English law provide

useful pointers in this context: O. Conclusion 87. Harking back to Charles Evans Hughes with whose words we began the

judgment, let us conclude with the following quote of the same judge reflected

in Prophets By Honor86: 87.1 The practice of dissent in judicial decision-making process plays a

critical role in revealing constitutional commitment to deliberative

democracy. Allowing judges to express differing views and engage in a

dialogue about the law and its interpretation can potentially lead to a more

nuanced and refined understanding of the law, as the Court grapples with

competing interpretations and seeks to reconcile them in a principled

manner. 87.2 Confronted with a similar situation which is confronting us today where

the present opinion is the minority one, Justice Stephen Breyer of the US

Supreme Court in his dissenting opinion87 in a question in the context of 86 Alan Barth, Prophets with Honor,1974 Ed. P 3-6 87 Badgerow v. Walters, 596 U.S. 2022 Page 75 of 78 Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) spoke of interpreting not only the purpose of the

Statute but also the likely consequence: existent in law and unenforceable/void, for the purpose of referring a

 matter for arbitration. Garware (supra) wrongly applied the principle

 in Hyundai (supra) to hold that an arbitration agreement would not

 exist-in-law if it is unstamped/insufficiently stamped. An arbitration

 agreement should not be rendered void if it is suffering stamp

 deficiency which is a curable defect. To this extent, Garware (supra)

 and Hyundai (supra) do not set out the correct law. Page 77 of 78 iii) The decision in SMS Tea (supra) stands overruled. Paragraphs 22 and

 29 in Garware (supra) which were approved in paragraphs 146 and

 147 in Vidya Drolia (supra) are overruled to that extent. 89. The invaluable assistance rendered by Mr. Gourab Banerjee, learned

Senior Counsel as the Amicus Curiae deserves a special mention in finalizing

this opinion. ……….……………………J.
 [HRISHIKESH ROY]

NEW DELHI
APRIL 25, 2023 Page 78 of 78 Reportable

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

 Civil Appeal Nos. 3802-3803 of 2020

M/S N.N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE
PRIVATE LIMITED
 …Appellant
 Versus

M/S INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. …Respondents

 JUDGMENT

C.T. RAVIKUMAR, J. 1. I have had the advantage of reading the erudite
opinion of my learned brother Justice K. M. Joseph, for
himself and learned brother Justice Aniruddha Bose, and
the separate opinion of learned brother Justice
Hrishikesh Roy, concurring with the opinion of learned
brother Justice Ajay Rastogi, but disagreeing with the
opinion of learned brother Justice K.M. Joseph.
Regretfully, I record my inability to agree with the
opinion of learned brother Justice Ajay Rastogi as also
with the concurrent opinion of learned brother Justice CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020 Page 1 of 19 Hrishikesh Roy. While fully endorsing the opinion of
learned brother Justice K. M. Joseph, to which my
learned brother Justice Aniruddha Bose has concurred, I
wish to add a concise addendum as under, in respect of
some of the issues, of course, only in support of findings
returned thereon. 2. The issue(s) under reference, the modification of
the referred question and the allied questions cropped
up for consideration have been elaborately dealt with
and answered in the erudite draft judgment of my
learned brother Justice K.M. Joseph and hence, it is
absolutely unessential to refer them. While considering
the power of the Court under Section 11(6) of the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 it is to be noted
that the position of Section 11(6) before and after the
amendment and Section 11(6A) , inserted by Act 2 of 2016
with effect from 23.10.2015 have been referred to in all
the three opinions. Hence, I do not think it necessary to
extract those provisions to avoid the risk of repetition.
Certainly, the powers conferred under Section 16 of the
Act often referred to as ‘Kompetenz-Kompetenz’ make it
clear that the Arbitral Tribunal is empowered and thus
got competence to rule on its own jurisdiction, including
on all jurisdictional issues and existence or validity of the CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020 Page 2 of 19 arbitration agreement. This provision would have its
full-play when appointment of the arbitrator takes place,
on consensus, by the parties, in accordance with the
terms of the arbitration agreement or by designated
arbitration institution, without the intervention of the
Court. But then, the provision under Section 11 (6) of the
Act applies when the procedures envisaged under the
arbitration agreement have not worked and an
application is filed for invocation of the power
thereunder before the Court for making appointment of
the Arbitrator(s). The controversy in regard to the
nature of the function to be performed under Section 11
(6) has been set at rest by the Seven-Judge Bench
decision in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd.1 by holding
that it is ‘judicial’. It continues to be ‘judicial’ despite the
amendment brought to the said section and even after
the insertion of Section 11 (6A) in the Act. An application
for ‘Appointment of Arbitrators’ is filed, by one party
asserting the existence of an arbitration agreement or
arbitration clause in an ‘instrument’ executed between
the parties concerned. Therefore, invariably what is to
be decided, in invocation of the said powers, is the 1 (2005) 8 SCC 618 CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020 Page 3 of 19 asserted factum of existence of arbitration agreement or
arbitration clause in the said instrument and invariably,
in this regard the party who invoked the said power
under Section 11(6) , has to produce that very relied on
instrument for inspection. The question is whether while
passing an order the Court exercising the power under Section 11 (6) receives any evidence, for the limited
purpose of ascertaining the truth of the assertion that the
document thus produced is an arbitration agreement or
an instrument containing arbitration clause. In this
regard it is only apposite to refer to the meaning
ascribable to the term ‘evidence’. As per Peter Murphy
in ‘A Practical Approach to Evidence (Second Edition),
1985, ‘evidence’ may be defined as any ‘material’ which
tends to persuade the Court of the truth or probity of
same fact asserted before it. As noted hereinbefore, in
such an application under Section 11 (6) , invariably the
fact to be asserted would be the existence of ‘arbitration
agreement’ and in proof thereof the material viz., the
document would be produced. I will refer to the relevant
provision in the statutory scheme viz., the Appointment
of Arbitrators by the Chief Justice of India Scheme, 1996,
later. Now, when that is received, it is nothing but
receiving evidence to that limited purpose for deciding CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020 Page 4 of 19 the question whether the ‘instrument’ produced is one
executed between the parties is an arbitration
agreement or whether the instrument contained an
arbitration clause. Necessarily, if the answer is in the
affirmative, an order appointing Arbitrator(s) would be
passed and an answer in the negative would be the end
of such proceedings. In that view of the matter, it can
safely be said that what is to be decided while
performing the function under Section 11 (6) is relating a
‘jurisdictional aspect’ as only on returning a finding that
there exists an arbitration agreement or arbitration
clause, in the material so produced, that arbitrator(s)
would be appointed. The answering of that question, on
receiving the ‘instrument’, is the performance of the
function describable as “acting upon” the document thus
produced. In other words, as discernible from the
statement of law by M.C. Desai, J. in Mt. Bittan Bibi &
Anr. v. Kuntu Lal & Anr..2 , (the relevant paragraph 8
extracted in the opinion of learned brother Justice K.M.
Joseph), ‘acting upon’ is not included in the act of
admitting an instrument, though it can be acted upon,
later, subject to permissibility in law therefor. 2 ILR [1952] 2 All 984 CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020 Page 5 of 19 3. The cleavage in opinion occurs on the issue as to
whether the Court called upon to invoke the power
under Section 11 (6) should or could exercise the power
coupled with duty under Section 33 of the Indian Stamp
Act, 1899, when the document carrying the arbitration
agreement or arbitration clause is found unstamped or
insufficiently stamped or without going into such matter,
should it confine its exercise of power in the matter of
appointment of Arbitrator(s) only and refrain itself from
proceeding further in view of the mandate under Section
33 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899. I have already recorded
my agreement with the opinion of my learned brother
K.M. Joseph that exercise of power coupled with duty
under Section 33 of the Stamp Act cannot be accused of
judicial interference in contravention to Section 5 of the
Act and further that it shall not be confused with
examination whether an arbitration agreement or
arbitration clause in the said instrument, exists so as to
appoint arbitrator in invocation of the power under Section 11(6) of the Act. In that view of the matter, the
provisions under Section 11(6A) or 16 of the Act cannot
act as a rider for the exercise of the said power under Section 33 of the Stamp Act. CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020 Page 6 of 19 4. In the aforesaid context, it is relevant to refer to
Sub-sections (1), (2) and clause (b) of Sub- section 2 , of Section 33 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899. They read
thus:- (1) Every person having by law or consent of
 parties authority to receive evidence, and every
 person in charge of a public office, except an
 officer of police, before whom any instrument,
 chargeable, in his opinion, with duty, is produced
 or comes in the performance of his functions, shall,
 if it appears to him that such instrument is not duly
 stamped, impound the same. (2) For that purpose every such person shall
 examine every instrument so chargeable and so
 produced or coming before him, in order to
 ascertain whether it is stamped with a stamp of the
 value and description required by the law in force
 in 2 [India] when such instrument was executed or
 first executed: Provided that— (a) nothing herein contained shall be deemed to
 require any Magistrate or Judge of a Criminal
 Court to examine or impound, if he does not think
 fit so to do, any instrument coming before him in CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020 Page 7 of 19 the course of any proceeding other than a
 proceeding under Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI
 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 (V of
 1898); (b) in the case of a Judge of a High Court, the duty
 of examining and impounding any instrument
 under this section may be delegated to such officer
 as the Court appoints in this behalf. 5. I have already found that receiving the very
‘instrument’ which is carrying the arbitration agreement
or containing an arbitration clause from the party who
asserts its existence is essentially an act of receiving the
evidence, in that limited sense. Therefore, how can the
Court, which is having authority and competence to
receive evidence, for the purpose of invoking the power
under Section 11 (6) , abstain from proceeding further in
terms of Section 33 if it appears to it that such instrument
produced before it, though required to be stamped, is
unstamped or is not duly stamped. According to me, in
terms of the mandate under Sub-section (2) of Section 33 ,
for that purpose, the Section 11 Judge who received
evidence shall ‘examine’ the instrument so chargeable
and so produced in order to ascertain whether it is
stamped with a stamp of the value and description CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020 Page 8 of 19 required by the law in force in India, when such
instrument was executed or first executed. Proviso (b)
which is extracted hereinbefore, would only permit a
Judge of the High Court for delegation of the duty of
examining and impounding any such instrument to such
officer as the Court may appoint in that behalf. Thus, it
only gives discretion to a Judge of the High Court to
delegate the duty of examining and impounding any
such instrument in the manner mentioned under the said
proviso if he chooses not to proceed in the manner
provided for impounding the instrument in accordance
with the relevant provision, by himself. When that be
the provision under Section 33 (1) and (2), a conjoint
reading of which obviously makes it mandatory for the
Court exercising the power under Section 11 (6) to
proceed in terms of the mandate under Section 33 when
the circumstances legally invites its invocation. A contra
view, according to me, would render Sub-section (2) of Section 33 and proviso (b) redundant and would defeat
the very soul of the provisions as relates their application
in respect of application filed under Section 11(6) of the
Act. 6. The Bar under Section 35 of the Stamp Act on
admission of instruments not duly stamped in evidence, CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020 Page 9 of 19 as is evident from proviso (a) to it, is not permanent and
is curable by following procedures provided thereunder
and making an endorsement as provided under Section
42(1) of the Stamp Act. Sub-section (2) of Section 42 makes it clear that every such instrument so endorsed
shall thereupon be admissible in evidence and be acted
upon and authenticated as it had been duly stamped. The
upshot of the discussion is that being unstamped or
insufficiently stamped, the agreement would not be
available to be ‘admitted in evidence’ and ‘to be acted
upon’, till it is validated following the procedures
prescribed under the provisions of the Stamp Act and till
then, it would not exist ‘in law’. 7. Another point which I intend to make in addition to
the opinion of my learned brother Justice K. M. Joseph, is
with respect to the meaning ascribable to the expression
‘certified copy’ which is permissible to be produced
along with the application for appointment of
Arbitrator(s) in terms of paragraph 2 (a) of the scheme
framed by the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, in
exercise of power under Section 11(10) of the Act,
namely, the Appointment of Arbitrators by the Chief
Justice of India Scheme, 1996. Paragraph 2 and sub-
paragraph (a) thereof read thus:- CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020 Page 10 of 19 section (5) or Sub-section (6) of Section 11 shall
 be made in writing and shall be accompanied by
 – (a) the original arbitration agreement or a duly

 certified copy thereof. 8. In the opinion of my learned brother Justice K. M.
Joseph this issue has been elaborately considered from
paragraphs 77 to 89. While concurring with the conclusions
and findings thereof, I would like to give my own reasons as
to why the expression ‘certified copy’ should be understood
with reference to Section 74 and 76 of the Indian Evidence
Act, 1872, (hereinafter referred to as ‘ Evidence Act ’) and why
the said form of secondary evidence is available to be ‘acted
upon’ without formal proof of existence and execution of the
original document. 9. Section 62 defines ‘primary evidence’ thus:- A person is shown to have been in possession of a
 number of placards, all printed at one time from
 one original. Any one of the placards is primary
 evidence of the contents of any other, but no one of
 them is primary evidence of the contents of the
 original. 10. Section 63 of the Indian Evidence Act defines
secondary evidence which reads thus: - 11. Thus, the definition ‘secondary evidence’ means
and includes what are mentioned in clauses ‘1 to 5’.
Though, the inclusive definition speaks of different kinds
of secondary evidence, such as, mentioned under
clauses ‘1 to 5’, a careful scanning of the Evidence Act would reveal that copies which fall under clause (1) of Section 63 alone carry the presumption of genuineness
and correctness, by virtue of the provision under Section
79 of the Evidence Act. Section 79 reads thus:- (f) when the original is a document of which a
 certified copy is permitted by this Act, or by any
 other law in force in [India] to be given in evidence; 15. In terms of the provisions under Section 79 of the
Evidence Act a certified copy of a document allegedly
carrying an arbitration clause is produced and that
document can be received in evidence for the purpose
of Section 11 (6) of the Act and by virtue of Section 79 of
the Evidence Act, the Court shall presume the
genuineness of the document which could be accepted
as evidence and shall presume the genuineness of the
contents of the document unless the presumption is not CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020 Page 15 of 19 rebutted by other evidence. Thus, it can be seen that
besides permitting to produce the original document
which is primary evidence in terms of Section 62 of the
Evidence Act, despite the existence of different kinds of
secondary evidence, under paragraph 2 (a) of Scheme
framed by the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, only
certified copy alone is permitted to be adduced,
purposefully, as by virtue of Section 79 of Evidence Act
presumption of genuineness and correctness of the
certified copies of the documents mentioned under Section 63 (1) of the Evidence Act shall have to be
presumed. In other words, the other modes of
production of secondary evidence would not permit the
Court to draw the presumption of genuineness and
correctness and that is why in paragraph 2(a) of the
scheme framed in terms of the provisions under Section
11 (10) provides only for production of certified copy of
the primary evidence to act upon for the purpose of
applying for appointment of Arbitrator under Section 11
(6) of the Act, in the alternative of production of the
original instrument. 16. As already found the nature of exercise of power
under Section 11 (6) is ‘judicial’ and therefore, it was
thought only fit to permit to exercise such power only on CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020 Page 16 of 19 the original instrument or else, on its certified copy, to
be understood with reference to Section 63 (1) read with Section 74 and 76 of the Evidence Act. When once the
intention behind paragraph 2(a) of the scheme is
understood in that manner with reference to the
provisions under Section 63 (1) , 74 , 76 and 79 of the
Evidence Act, the expression ‘certified copy’ employed
in paragraph 2(a) of the scheme framed under Section
11(10) of the Act cannot be interpreted to mean any other
kind of copies provided under Section 63 of the Evidence
Act other than under Section 63 (1) of the Evidence Act. 17. Learned brother Justice K. M. Joseph, after
explaining as to how the expression ‘certified copy’ must
be understood, held that the Court exercising the power
under Section 11 (6) has to exercise the power under Section 33 of the Indian Stamp Act when the original is
produced before the Court. In other words, according
to me, it is rightfully held that when the original
document carrying the arbitration clause is produced
and if it is found that it is unstamped or insufficiently
stamped, the Court acting under Section 11 is duty
bound to act under Section 33 of the Indian Stamp Act as
held in the draft judgment. CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020 Page 17 of 19 18. I am also concurring with the view that what is
permissible to be produced as secondary evidence i.e.,
other than the original document in terms of Section 2(a) of the scheme framed under Section 11(10) of the Act, is
nothing but certified copy as mentioned earlier. But such
a certified copy, would not be available to be proceeded
with under Section 33 of the Stamp Act if it is unstamped
or insufficiently stamped. In such circumstances, such
certified copy shall not be acted upon. 19. In the contextual situation, to understand the
difference between ‘certified copy’ and ‘a copy certified
to be true copy’, it is only appropriate to refer to Rule 1
of Order VIII of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013, framed
invoking the power conferred by Article 145 of the
Constitution of India. Rule 1 of Order VIII reads thus: - 20. It cannot be presumed that despite the
conspicuous difference in the said expressions, under
paragraph 2 (a) ‘certified copy’ alone was permitted to
be appended along with the application under Section
11 of the Act, unintentionally. I am of the considered
view that it was so prescribed, fully understanding the
nature of exercise of power under Section 11 (6) of the
Act and also the presumption of genuineness and
correctness of ‘certified copy’ available by virtue of Section 79 of the Evidence Act. With this addendum, I fully endorse all the
conclusions and findings in the judgment of my learned
brother Justice K. M. Joseph. ……………………, J. (C.T. Ravikumar)
New Delhi; April 25, 2023 CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020 Page 19 of 19