(PER: HON'BLE MR. VIBHU BAKHRU, CHIEF JUSTICE) 1. The appellant has filed the present appeal under Section

37(1)(a) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 [the A&C Act]

impugning an order dated 29.05.2024 [impugned order] passed

by the learned City Civil and Sessions Judge [Commercial Court],

whereby the application filed by the appellant under Section 8 of

the A&C Act to refer the parties to arbitration, was rejected. 2. The plain reading of the impugned order indicates that the

learned Commercial Court had rejected the application on the

ground that the plaint contained serious allegations of fraud against

the defendants. The relevant extract of the impugned order is set

out below: 3. The question whether disputes involving allegations of fraud

are arbitrable has been considered by the Supreme Court in

various cases. 4. In N. Radhakrishnan v. Maestro Engineers & Ors. : (2010)

1 SCC 72, the Supreme Court referred to its earlier decision in Abdul Kadir Shamsuddin Bubere v. Madhav Prabhakar Oak &

Anr. : AIR 1962 SC 406 and held that disputes involving serious

allegations of fraud would not be referred to arbitration. It is

material to refer to the reasoning for the said view as articulated in Abdul Kadir Shamsuddin Bubere (supra) which was followed in N. Radhakrishnan (supra). Paragraph 17 of the said decision which encapsulates the reasoning is set down below: NC: 2025:KHC:28970-DB COMAP No. 174 of 2025 HC-KAR 5. In a later decision in Swiss Timing Ltd. v. Commonwealth

Games 2010 Organizing Committee: (2014) 6 SCC 677, a

learned Single Judge of the Supreme Court observed that the

decision rendered in N. Radhakrishnan (supra) was per incuriam

as the Court had not referred to its earlier decisions in the case of P. Anand Gajapathi Raju & Ors. v. P.V.G. Raju (Dead) & Ors. : Pinkcity Midway Petroleums: (2003) 6 SCC 503. 6. It is relevant to note that the observations made in Swiss

Timing Ltd. (supra) was in the context of a petition relating to

appointment of an arbitrator. The question of arbitrability of

disputes was again considered by the Supreme Court in Booz

Allen & Hamilton Inc. v. SBI Home Finance Ltd. & Ors. : (2011)

5 SCC 532. In this context, the Supreme Court, inter alia,

observed that the cases that give rise to criminal offences would

not be arbitrable. 7. Subsequently, in A. Ayyasamy v. A. Paramasivam & Ors. : 8. It is relevant to refer to the concurring opinion penned by

Dr.D.Y.Chandrachud, J in A. Ayyasamy v. A. Paramasivam &

Ors. (supra). The relevant part of his concurring opinion is set out

below,

 "43. Hence, the allegations of criminal wrongdoing
 or of statutory violation would not detract from the
 jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal to resolve a
 dispute arising out of a civil or contractual
 relationship on the basis of the jurisdiction conferred
 by the arbitration agreement. 45. The position that emerges both before and after
 the decision in N. Radhakrishnan [N.
 Radhakrishnan v. Maestro Engineers, (2010) 1
 SCC 72 : (2010) 1 SCC (Civ) 12] is that successive
 decisions of this Court have given effect to the
 binding precept incorporated in Section 8 . Once
 there is an arbitration agreement between the
 parties, a judicial authority before whom an action is
 brought covering the subject-matter of the
 arbitration agreement is under a positive obligation
 to refer parties to arbitration by enforcing the terms
 of the contract. There is no element of discretion left
 in the court or judicial authority to obviate the
 legislative mandate of compelling parties to seek
 recourse to arbitration. The judgment in N.
 Radhakrishnan [N. Radhakrishnan v. Maestro
 Engineers, (2010) 1 SCC 72 : (2010) 1 SCC (Civ)
 12] has, however, been utilised by parties seeking a
 convenient ruse to avoid arbitration to raise a
 defence of fraud: It is only where there is a serious issue of fraud
 involving criminal wrongdoing that the exception to
 arbitrability carved out in N. Radhakrishnan [N.
 Radhakrishnan v. Maestro Engineers, (2010) 1
 SCC 72 : (2010) 1 SCC (Civ) 12] may come into
 existence. 45.2. Allegations of fraud are not alien to ordinary
 civil courts. Generations of judges have dealt with
 such allegations in the context of civil and
 commercial disputes. If an allegation of fraud can
 be adjudicated upon in the course of a trial before
 an ordinary civil court, there is no reason or
 justification to exclude such disputes from the ambit
 and purview of a claim in arbitration. The parties
 who enter into commercial dealings and agree to a
 resolution of disputes by an arbitral forum exercise
 an option and express a choice of a preferred mode
 for the resolution of their disputes. The parties in
 choosing arbitration place priority upon the speed,
 flexibility and expertise inherent in arbitral
 adjudication. Once parties have agreed to refer -9- NC: 2025:KHC:28970-DB COMAP No. 174 of 2025 HC-KAR

 disputes to arbitration, the court must plainly
 discourage and discountenance litigative strategies
 designed to avoid recourse to arbitration. Any other
 approach would seriously place in uncertainty the
 institutional efficacy of arbitration. Such a
 consequence must be eschewed." [emphasis added] 9. It is relevant to bear in mind the observation made by the

Supreme Court that if an allegation can be adjudicated before a

trial court in an ordinary civil court, there will be no ground to

exclude such disputes from the scope of arbitration agreement.

This is a vital test for determining whether the parties can be

permitted to resile from the arbitration agreement on the ground

that the disputes are not arbitrable. 10. It is equally relevant to refer to the following observations of

the Supreme Court in Rashid Raza v. Sadaf Akhtar : (2019) 8

SCC 710. - 10 - NC: 2025:KHC:28970-DB COMAP No. 174 of 2025 HC-KAR 11. It is clear from the above that only those cases where the

allegations of fraud would render the arbitration agreement void,

that a court could refrain from referring the parties to arbitration.

The rationale for the said decision is obvious. If the allegations of

fraud are so grave so as to render the entire contract, including the

arbitration agreement, void, then the very existence of the

arbitration agreement is called into question. In such cases, where

the arbitration agreement is vitiated by fraud, the Arbitral Tribunal

would have no jurisdiction to adjudicate the disputes. 12. In Avitel Post Studioz Ltd. & Ors. v. HSBC PI Holdings

(Mauritius) Ltd. : (2021) 4 SCC 713, the Supreme Court explained

the test for determining whether the disputes involving fraud are

arbitrable. We consider it apposite to refer to the following extract

of the said decision : 13. It is important to note, the Supreme Court also referred to its

decision in the case of Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc. (supra) and

observed as under: 14. The decision in N. Radhakrishnan (supra) was expressly

overruled by the Supreme Court in Vidya Drolia & Ors. v. Durga

Trading Corporation : (2021) 2 SCC 1. Further, the Supreme

Court propounded a four-fold test for determining whether disputes - 12 - NC: 2025:KHC:28970-DB COMAP No. 174 of 2025 HC-KAR

were arbitrable. The relevant extract of the said decision is set out

below: 15. In N.N. Global Mercantile Private Limited v. Indo Unique

Flame Limited & Ors. : (2021) 4 SCC 379, the Supreme Court

explained the above principle in the following words: 16. It is clear from the above, that the proposition that disputes

involving complex allegations of fraud cannot be referred to

arbitration, no longer holds good. The question whether the courts

should refrain from referring the parties to arbitration where

disputes involve allegations of fraud, is essentially confined to

cases whether the allegations of fraud render the arbitration

agreement void. If the allegations of serious fraud strike at the

validity of the arbitration agreement, the Court may refrain from

referring the parties to arbitration. 17. It is also relevant to bear in mind that although an arbitration

agreement may be embodied in one of the clauses of the

agreement, it is for all, intents and purposes a separate agreement.

Thus, invalidity of the agreement on the ground of fraud would not

invalidate the arbitration agreement between the parties. It would - 14 - NC: 2025:KHC:28970-DB COMAP No. 174 of 2025 HC-KAR

be relevant to refer to the decision of the House of Lords in Fiona

Trust & Holding Corporation and others v. Privalov: (2007)

UKHL 40. The following extract from the opinion penned by Lord

Hoffman is of some significance: [emphasis added] 18. It is only in cases where the disputes involve allegations of

serious fraud that impeach the validity of the arbitration agreement

that the court may refrain from referring the parties to arbitration. 19. In the present case, there is no dispute that the parties

entered into Collection Agency Agreement dated 25.03.2019.

Clause 8.1 of the said agreement embodies an arbitration clause

and the allegations made in the plaint cannot be construed as

grave allegations of fraud that void the arbitration agreement. 20. In view of the above, the decision of the learned Commercial

Court to reject the appellant's application under Section 8 of the

A&C Act on the ground that the disputes involves complex question

of fraud, is unsustainable. 21. Having stated above, we note that the respondents had also

raised certain other issues, including that all the defendants are not

signatories to the arbitration agreement. The respondents also - 17 - NC: 2025:KHC:28970-DB COMAP No. 174 of 2025 HC-KAR

contend that the action instituted is de hors the Collection Agency

Agreement. 22. We were inclined to examine these questions. However, the

learned counsel for the parties submit that since these questions

have not been examined by the learned Commercial Court, the

impugned order may be set aside and the matter be remanded to

the learned Commercial Court to decide afresh. 23. In view of the above, the impugned order is set aside and the

appellant's application [I.A No.V in Com.O.S. No.1842/2022] under Section 8 of the A&C Act is restored before the learned

Commercial Court for decision afresh. 24. Pending application also stands disposed of. Sd/- (VIBHU BAKHRU)
 CHIEF JUSTICE

 Sd/- (C M JOSHI)
 JUDGE

AHB List No.: 1 Sl No.: 28