Shri Harikrishan Singh Chauhan, counsel for the
respondent No.2. This application under Section 482 of CrPC has been filed
for quashing the proceedings in Sessions Trial No.59/2017
pending in the Court of Second Additional Sessions Judge,
Morena for the offence under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B of IPC. (2) It is submitted by the counsel for the applicants that the
parties have compromised the matter and, therefore, they had
filed an application under Section 320 of CrPC, which has been
rejected by order dated 21/02/2018. It is submitted that in the
light of the judgments passed by the Supreme Court in the
cases of Gian Singh vs. State of Punjab reported in (2012)
10 SCC 303 and Narinder Singh & Ors. vs. State of Punjab
& Anr. reported in (2014) 6 SCC 466, the proceeding can be
quashed on the basis of compromise. (3) If the FIR which has been lodged against the present
applicants is considered, then it is clear that the applicants are
the employees of the Bank and it is alleged that on the basis of
forged documents, they had sanctioned loan of Rs.60,000/-in
favour of co-accused persons. It is well known that the Bank,
sanction the loan only after duly verifying the documents. Thus,
it cannot be said that the documents which were made
available by the co-accused persons, were relied by the Bank
without getting it verified. (4) It is submitted by the counsel for the applicants that the
applicants have nothing to do with the present matter because
the Bank had acted upon the documents which were made
available by the co-accused persons and the applicants were
not knowing that the documents, which were produced by the
co-accused persons, were forged. The submissions made by the
counsel for the applicants cannot be accepted because before
sanctioning the loans, the documents are always verified by the
Bank. (5) The Supreme Court in the cases of Gian Singh and
Narinder Singh (supra) has held that subject to the gravity
of the offence, the proceedings can be quashed on the basis of
compromise, but in the present case, if the allegations made
against the present applicants are taken into consideration,
then it appears that they are serious in nature and are not
private in nature and have serious impact on the society. (6) The Suprme Court in the case of Gopakumar B.Nair vs
C.B.I & Anr , reported in (2014)5 SCC 800 has held as under :- Furthermore, in the exercise of such power, the
note of caution sounded in Gian Singh (supra)
(para 61) must be kept in mind. This, in our
view, is the correct ratio of the decision in Gian
Singh (supra). 14. The aforesaid principle of law may now be
applied to the facts of the present case. At the
very outset a detailed narration of the charges
against the accused-appellant has been made.
The appellant has been charged with the offence
of criminal conspiracy to commit the offence
under Section 13(1)(d) . He is also substantively
charged under Section 420(compoundable with
the leave of the Court) and Section 471(non-
compoundable). A careful consideration of the
facts of the case would indicate that unlike in
Nikhil Merchant (supra) no conclusion can be
reached that the substratum of the charges
against the accused-appellant in the present case
is one of cheating nor are the facts similar to
those in Narendra Lal Jain (supra) where the
accused was charged under Section 120-Bread
with Section 420IPC only. The offences are
certainly more serious; they are not private in
nature. The charge of conspiracy is to commit
offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act .
The accused has also been charged for
commission of the substantive offence under Section 471 IPC. Though the amounts due have
been paid the same is under a private settlement
between the parties unlike in Nikhil Merchant
(supra) and Narendra Lal Jain (supra) where the
compromise was a part of the decree of the
Court. There is no acknowledgment on the part
of the bank of the exoneration of the criminal
liability of the accused-appellant unlike the terms
of compromise decree in the aforesaid two cases. In the totality of the facts stated above, if the
High Court has taken the view that the exclusion
spelt out in Gian Singh (supra) (para 61) applies
to the present case and on that basis had come 4 to the conclusion that the power under Section
 482CrPC should not be exercised to quash the
 criminal case against the accused, we cannot find
 any justification to interfere with the said
 decision . The appeal filed by the accused is,
 therefore, dismissed and the order dated
 25.06.2013 of the High Court, is affirmed.'' The Supreme Court in the case of C.B.I vs Jagjit Singh reported in (2013) 10 SCC 686 has held as under :- These offences fall under the category of
 offences involving moral turpitude committed by
 public servants while working in that capacity.
 Prima facie, one may state that the bank as the
 victim in such cases but, in fact, the society in
 general, including customers of the Bank is the
 sufferer. In the present case, there was neither
 an allegation regarding any abuse of process of
 any Court nor anything on record to suggest that
 the offenders were entitled to secure the order in
 the ends of justice.''
 The Supreme Court in the case of CBI vs. Maninder
Singh , reported in (2016) 1 SCC 389 has held as under:- In economic offences Court must not only keep in
view that money has been paid to the bank which
has been defrauded but also the society at large.
It is not a case of simple assault or a theft of a
trivial amount; but the offence with which we are
concerned is a well planned and was committed
with a deliberate design with an eye of personal
profit regardless of consequence to the society at
large. To quash the proceeding merely on the
ground that the accused has settled the amount
with the bank would be a misplaced sympathy. If
the prosecution against the economic offenders
are not allowed to continue, the entire community
is aggrieved. 18. In recent decision in Vikram Anantrai Doshi
(supra), this Court distinguished Nikhil Merchant's
case and Narendra Lal Jain's case where the
compromise was a part of the decree of the court
and by which the parties withdrew all allegations
against each other. After referring to various case
laws under subject in Vikram Anantrai Doshi's
case, this Court observed that cheating by bank
exposits fiscal impurity and such financial fraud is
an offence against society at large in para (23),
this Court held as under ( State of Maharashtra vs.
Vikram Anantrai Doshi (2014) 15 SCC 29 SCC
Page 42):- The Supreme Court in the case of Ramesh Kamath and
Others vs. Mohana Kurup and Others , reported in (2016)
12 SCC 179 has held as under:- (G.S. Ahluwalia)
 Judge

MKB Digitally signed by MAHENDRA KUMAR BARIK Date: 2018.03.27 17:37:28 +05'30'