1. This appeal has been filed against the impugned orders
dated 09.05.2016 and 30.05.2016 by which the appellant was convicted
for the offences punishable under Sections 420 and 120 B of the Indian
Penal Code ( IPC ). The appellant was sentenced to a term of
imprisonment already undergone by him. In addition, fine of Rs. 50,000/-
was imposed on the appellant for the offence under section 420 of the
IPC and Rs. 10,000/- for the offence under section 120 B of the IPC. It
was directed that in default of payment of fine the appellant would
undergo further rigorous imprisonment for a period of three months and
one month for the offence under section 420 and 120B IPC respectively. 2. Before this Court Sh. D.K. Sharma, Ld. counsel for the Shyam Singh vs. State Criminal Appeal No. 9 of 2016 1/14 appellant had argued that the Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that the
majority of the material witnesses qua the appellant had not supported
the version of the prosecution and had been declared hostile. The other
witnesses, two in number, who had supported the prosecution version
were closely related to each other and there were numerous
contradictions in their versions which had cropped up in their cross
examination. They therefore could not be relied upon. Sh. D. K. Sharma
took this Court through the testimonies of PW 9, PW 10, PW 16, PW 18
and PW 23, who had been declared hostile by the prosecution as well
as the statements of PW 8 and PW 20 who had supported the version of
the prosecution but according to him were not reliable. Sh. D.K.
Sharma submitted that the points of contradictions in the versions of PW
8 and PW 20 were enumerated in ground 'M' of the memo of appeal on
which he relied upon. He further submitted that the ingredients of section 420 of the IPC were not made out in this case as no promise
was made by the appellant nor was any inducement given by the
appellant on the basis of which the complainant could be said to have
been cheated. 3. Ld. Counsel for the appellant further submitted that the
appellant had been in custody for 49 days. No further term of
imprisonment was imposed upon him. However, the Ld. Trial Court while
imposing sentence of fine had directed the appellant to undergo
rigorous imprisonment for a period of three months and one month in
default of payment of fine for the offences under sections 420 and 120 B IPC. He submitted that firstly rigorous imprisonment cannot be awarded
in default of payment of fine as the nature of imprisonment in this regard
has to be simple. It was further submitted that the term of further
imprisonment in default of payment of fine was beyond the period of one Shyam Singh vs. State Criminal Appeal No. 9 of 2016 2/14 fourth of the term of imprisonment of 49 days already unergone by the
appellant. In this regard he relied on the provisions of section 65 of the
IPC. 4. On the other hand, the ld. Addl. PP for the State has
argued that the impugned order did not call for any interference. He
submitted that the appellant was part of a well organized racket which
defrauded a large number of innocent persons by promising them
employment on the basis of forged and fabricated lists and interview call
letters of the employment exchange. 5. I have heard the counsel for the parties and have perused
the record of the Trial Court. My findings are as under. 6. The records of the Trial Court reveals that FIR No. 288/99
PS Delhi Cantt. was registered on the complaint dated 12.01.1999 of
the office of Sub-Regional Employment Exchange, Curzon Road, Kirbi
Place, Govt. of NCT of Delhi through the Sub-Regional Employment
Officer. It was alleged in the complaint that the said office had received
a request for filling up six vacancies in Corporation Bank, Karol Bagh,
New Delhi. Acting on the said request the office of the Employment
Officer forwarded lists of suitable candidates to the said bank through
three communications dated 13.11.1998, 24.11.1998 and 27.11.1998.
However, the said bank vide its letter dated 30.11.1998 informed the
Employment Officer that they had already conducted interviews of
candidates on the basis of a list of 123 candidates which had been sent
by the Office of the Employment Officer vide its covering letter dated
21.10.1998. An inquiry was conducted in the office of the Employment
Officer and it was found that the alleged letter dated 21.10.1998 and list Shyam Singh vs. State Criminal Appeal No. 9 of 2016 3/14 of 123 candidates had been forged and fabricated as the same had
never been sent by the Employment Officer. It was alleged that the
signatures on the list were not of the officials of the Employment
Exchange and the rubber stamps used were also fake. 7. Upon registration of the FIR investigation was conducted.
The persons whose names had been included in the fake list were
examined and it came to light that the present appellant Shyam Singh
along with his associates Arun Kumar Sinha, Gauri Shankar Sharma,
Madan Singh Rana, Yashwant Singh and Uma Shankar Singh had
collected money from several of these candidates on the promise of
securing them employment. They cheated these persons by preparing a
fabricated list of candidates which they sent with a forged covering letter
of the Employment Exchange to the Corporation Bank. On the basis of
the same Corporation Bank had called the said candidates for interview
which were conducted. All the said accused persons were arrested and
they disclosed their involvement in the offence. Specimen handwriting
of the accused persons were collected during the course of investigation
and sent to the Forensic Sciences Laboratory (FSL) for comparison with
the handwriting on the forged documents. As per the report of the FSL,
the same matched with that of co-accused Yashwant Singh. 8. Upon completion of investigation, charge sheet arising out
of the FIR was filed. By order dated 28.03.2007 charges were framed
against the accused persons including the appellant for the offences
under section 420 , 468 , 471 read with 120B. During the course of the
trial the prosecution examined 30 witnesses in all. PW8, PW 9, PW 10,
PW 16, PW 18, PW 20 and PW 23 pertain to the appellant. Shyam Singh vs. State Criminal Appeal No. 9 of 2016 4/14 9. Ld. Counsel for the appellant had argued that except for
PW 8 and PW 20, the other material witnesses had not supported the
version of the prosecution. I have gone through the testimonies of these
witnesses. I shall first deal with the testimonies of PW 9, PW 10, PW
16, PW 18, and PW 23. 10. PW 9 stated in his examination in chief that he knew
nothing about this case and he thus completely resiled from the
statement given to the police. In cross examination by Ld. APP for the
State, he stated that he knew Shyam Singh as he was his neighbour
who was working in a hospital. He admitted that he had gone for an
interview to Corporation Bank. 11. PW 10 in his examination in chief stated that Shyam Singh
was his first cousin and that he had gone to Corporation Bank for an
interview. He stated that he was already registered with the Employment
Exchange, but no talk took place between him and Shyam Singh
regarding the said employment. In cross examination by the Ld. APP
for the State, he admitted that the address given on his interview letter
was incorrect and that he had gone for interview to Corporation Bank. 12. PW 16 in his examination in chief has stated that he had
gone to Curzon Road for registering his name in the Employment
Exchange where he met 6-7 persons including one person by the name
of Shyam Singh, but he could not identify the said person in the Court.
He stated that it was Shyam Singh who had given assurance to him to
get his name registered in the Employment Exchange and for issuance
of a call letter against payment of Rs. 1,000/-. He had received a call
letter from the Corporation Bank. He had paid Rs. 1,000/- to some Shyam Singh vs. State Criminal Appeal No. 9 of 2016 5/14 person but that person was not amongst the accused persons present in
the Court. Even after being specifically pointed out he could not identify
Shyam Singh in the Court. 13. PW 18 in his examination in chief has not stated anything.
In cross examination on by the Ld. APP for the State he only stated that
he came to know later on that a bogus list of candidates for interview
had been sent by Shyam Singh to the bank. 14. PW 23 in his examination in chief had stated that he did
not know Shyam Singh. In cross examination by the State he only
stated that he came to know about a forged list of candidates having
been made for interview. 15. Even though PW 9, PW 10, PW 16, PW 18, and PW 23
may not have supported the version of the prosecution, PW 16 has
stated that he had met a person by the name of Shyam Singh in the
Employment Exchange. 16. Now coming to the statements of PW8 and PW20, PW 8
has stated that Sh. Shyam Singh is a relative of his neighbour who was
working in Safdarjang Hospital. Shyam Singh was a regular visitor in
their colony and offered employment to PW 8 against payment of
consideration. He stated that payments were made to Shyam Singh who
arranged for an interview later on. In cross examination by the accused,
he stated that payment was made to Shyam Singh in the presence of
one Nanak Chand Sharma. He had arranged the money by mortgaging
gold pertaining to himself and his relative. The money was not
distributed amongst the partners of Shyam Singh in his presence. Shyam Singh vs. State Criminal Appeal No. 9 of 2016 6/14 17. PW 20 who is the brother in law of PW 8 has stated that
PW 8 had disclosed to him that Shyam Singh could arrange
employment for them against consideration. He then met Shyam Singh
with PW 8 at Safderjang Hospital where Shyam Singh asked for
consideration. He had stated that Arun Kumar and Uma Shankar, other
co-accused persons were also present. He had paid Rs. 40,000/- to
them. He did not receive any call letter mentioning that the interview of
the list of candidates had been cancelled. In cross examination he had
stated that he admitted that name of Uma Shankar was not mentioned
in his statement given to the police and that the money was given only
to Shyam Singh in the house of the father in law of PW 20. 18. In ground (M) of the memo of appeal, it has been
submitted by the appellant that the following contradictions existed in
the statement of PW8 and PW20:- 19. It had also been argued that both PW 8 and PW 20 were
related to each other and coupled with the contradictions in their
versions, they could not be relied upon. Before proceeding further, it
may be worthwhile to refer to certain observations of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court relating to the manner in which the testimonies of the
witnesses are ought to be appreciated. In the case of Mritunjoy Biswas
v. Pranab reported in (2013) 12 SCC 796 the Hon'ble Supreme Court
was pleased to observe as under:-: 20. Further in the case of State of A.P. v. Kanda Gopaludu reported in (2005) 13 SCC 116 it was observed as under:- 21 It has been held in the above cases that after lapse of
considerable time a witness cannot be expected to depose with
mathematical precision. The said observation was made in a case
where the gap between the date of the incident and the date on which
statement of the witness was recorded was four years. In the present
case, the incident is of the year 1998. PW 8 was examined in 2010
while PW 20 was examined in the year 2012 after a lapse of 12 and 14
years respectively from the date of incident. PW8 and PW20 cannot be
expected to recollect each detail of the facts which were within their
knowledge. 22. Further it has also been observed by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court that the Court has to see whether the witness has stated the Shyam Singh vs. State Criminal Appeal No. 9 of 2016 9/14 material facts and is consistent. Contradictions on minor aspects which
do not affect the case should be undue emphasis. In the present matter,
it is to be seen that PW 8 and PW 20 are consistent with their
statements that Shyam Singh had approached them with the promise of
securing employment against payment and that they had paid
consideration to him. On the basis of the said consideration, the names
of PW8 and PW20 were included in the forged list and they had been
called for interviews. Both PW8 and PW20 identified Shyam Singh in
Court. The contradictions referred to in ground (M) of the memo of
appeal are not material as they pertain to the place where they met the
accused and where the money was paid, the installments in which they
were paid and the dates of meeting and payment. These contradictions
are bound to appear when a witness is examined 12 or 14 years after
the incident. They are however consistent with the fact that Shyam
Singh had promised them employment against consideration. Therefore
the statements of PW8 and PW20 cannot be disregarded. They have
been rightly relied upon by the Ld. Trial Court. 23. The statements of PW8 and PW20 are to be considered in
the background of the facts that the list of candidates was proved to be
forged and the same had the names of not only PW8 and PW20 but
also of PW 9, PW 10, PW 16, PW 18, and PW 23. PW 9 is not
unknown to Shyam Singh. PW 16 has stated that he had met a person
named Shyam Singh in the office of the Employment Exchange but he
could not identify Shyam Singh. Again it is to be kept in mind that PW 16
was examined in the year 2011 i.e. 13 years after the incident. It is
understandable that due to passage of time his memory could have
faded due to which he could not identify the appellant in the Court. Shyam Singh vs. State Criminal Appeal No. 9 of 2016 10/14 24. It had been submitted that the ingredients of Section 420 of the IPC were not made out. It is to be seen that the names of PW8,
PW 9, PW 10, PW 16, PW 18, PW 20, PW 23 and other witnesses are
in the fake list of candidates forwarded to the Corporation Bank with a
forged letter of the Employment Exchange. PW 8, PW 9 and PW 20
have deposed that their names were included in the said list upon
payment of consideration. Section 415 defines cheating to be an act of
deceiving any person in a fraudulent manner by which the person
deceived delivers any property to any person. In the present case the
allegations that have been proved are that employment was offered in
Corporation Bank to the victims against demand of money. After taking
money, the victims were issued interview call letters from Corporation
Bank which acted on a fake list of candidates of the Employment
Exchange. The allegations stand proved. Ingredients of cheating as
defined under section 415 of the IPC and punishable under section 420 are clearly made out. 25. It had been submitted that the direction to undergo
rigorous imprisonment in default of payment of fine was for a period
beyond that permissible under section 65 of the IPC. It had been
submitted that the appellant had already undergone imprisonment of 49
days and no further term of imprisonment was imposed upon him. 26. Section 65 of the IPC lays down that the term of
imprisonment in default of payment of fine was not exceed one fourth of
the term of imprisonment which is the maximum fixed for the offence.
Thus this period cannot be reckoned with respect to 49 days of
imprisonment already undergone, but has to be reckoned with the
maximum sentence which can be imposed for a particular offence. In Shyam Singh vs. State Criminal Appeal No. 9 of 2016 11/14 the present case the maximum punishment which can be imposed for
the offence under section 420 IPC is seven years. Hence, the period of
imprisonment of three months against the default of payment of fine is
well within the limit of one fourth of the said period. As regards period of
imprisonment to be undergone in default of payment of fine for the
offence under section 120 B of the IPC, it had been submitted that the
said offence under section 120 B IPC do not attract any sentence of
imprisonment. Section 120-B (1) of the IPC provides that where any
person is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence
punishable with death, imprisonment for life, or rigorous imprisonment
for a term of two years or upwards shall, there is no express provision
made in the Code for punishment for such a conspiracy be punished in
the same manner as if he had had abetted such offence. As per Section
109 of the IPC, the punishment for abetment is the same as provided
for the abetted offence. The conspiracy for which the appellant stands
convicted is cheating under Section 420 of the IPC which attracts a
maximum punishment of imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to seven years and is also liable to fine. In this
manner, the maximum sentence which can be imposed upon the
appellant for the offence under Section 120B of the IPC will be guided
by Section 420 IPC. Thus the sentence of imprisonment of one month in
default of payment of fine is within the limit as prescribed under Section
65 of the IPC. 27. The last submission which was made was that in default of
payment of fine, imprisonment which can be imposed is simple and not
rigorous. Section 65 of the IPC does not prescribe rigorous
imprisonment. Hence to this extent the appeal of the appellant can be
allowed. The sentence of imprisonment in default of payment of fine will Shyam Singh vs. State Criminal Appeal No. 9 of 2016 12/14 be simple imprisonment and not rigorous imprisonment as directed in
the order of sentence dated 30.05.2016. The order on sentence dated
30.05.2016 stands modified to that extent. 28. For the reasons recorded above, the appeal of the
appellant is dismissed except to the extent as recorded above. 29. TCR along with copy of this judgment be sent back to the
Ld. Trial Court. Appeal file be consigned to the record room. Vide separate judgment, the appeal of the appellant is
dismissed except to the extent as detailed in para no. 27 of the
judgment. The Ld. Trial Court by the impugned orders dated
09.05.2016 and 30.05.2016 by which the appellant was convicted for
the offence punishable under Section 420 and 120 B of the IPC and
sentenced to a term of imprisonment already undergone by him. Fine of
Rs. 50,000/- was imposed for the offence under section 420 of the IPC
and Rs. 10,000/- for the offence under section 120 B of the IPC. It is
was directed that in default of payment of fine the appellant would
undergo imprisonment for three months and one month respectively. The Trial Court record does not indicate whether the
appellant has deposited the fine imposed upon him or not. The Ld. Trial
Court is therefore called upon to ensure compliance of its judgment and
sentence. TCR be sent back along with copy of the judgment and
this order. Appeal file be consigned to the record room. (Reetesh Singh)
 ASJ-02/FTC, New Delhi District,
 Patiala House Courts, New Delhi
 26.08.2016 Shyam Singh vs. State Criminal Appeal No. 9 of 2016 14/14