1. Petitioner, who is apprehending arrest in Crime

No.63/2024 registered by CCB Bengaluru City Police,

Bengaluru, for the offences punishable under Sections 336(3),

318(4) read with Section 3(5) of BNS, 2023, is before this

Court in this successive bail application filed under Section 482

of BNSS, 2023, seeking anticipatory bail. 2. Heard the learned counsel for the parties. 3. FIR in Crime No.63/2024 was registered by CCB

Bengaluru City Police, Bengaluru, for the offences punishable

under Sections 318(4), 336(2), 336(3), 340(2), 61(1) read

with Section 3(5) of BNS, 2023, against Mohan based on the

first information dated 28.10.2024 received from Smt. Vijaya

Lakshmi, Chief Editor of a Digital News Media. Apprehending

arrest in the case, petitioner had filed bail application before

the jurisdictional Sessions Court which was rejected and -3- NC: 2025:KHC:24119 CRL.P No. 8143 of 2025 HC-KAR

therefore, he had approached this Court in Crl.P.No.1522/2025

which was dismissed as withdrawn with liberty to the petitioner

to file a fresh bail application before the Trial Court since

charge sheet was filed during the pendency of the said petition.

It appears that thereafter, a fresh bail application was filed by

the petitioner before the jurisdictional Sessions Court in

Crl.Misc.No.3514/2025 which was rejected on 09.05.2025.

Therefore, he is before this Court. 4. Learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the

petitioner submits that accused Nos.1 and 2, who were

arrested in the present case have been granted regular bail and

accused No.4 has been granted anticipatory bail. Accused Nos.1

and 2 have confessed to the crime and they have stated that

fraudulent and fake marks cards, degree certificates etc. were

prepared by them. Petitioner is the Vice Chancellor of the

University and he had no role in the alleged crime. He is ready

and willing to cooperate with the police for the purpose of

investigation. Since charge sheet is already filed, petitioner's

custodial interrogation is no more required. The alleged

offences are triable by the Court of Magistrate and the -4- NC: 2025:KHC:24119 CRL.P No. 8143 of 2025 HC-KAR

maximum punishment for the alleged offences is imprisonment

for a period of seven years. He, accordingly, prays to allow the

petition. 5. Per contra, learned HCGP has strongly opposed the

petition. She submits that accused Nos.1, 2 and 4 are the

employees of the University of which the petitioner is the Vice

Chancellor. The allegation in the charge sheet is that without

conducting any examinations, University was issuing fraudulent

and fake marks cards and degree certificates of various courses

including post graduate courses to the students after collecting

huge money from them. Petitioner is the head of the University

and considering the nature of allegations found, it cannot be

said that the petitioner had no role in the alleged crime.

Though enquiry notices have been issued to him, he has not

cooperated for investigation. Charge sheet is filed only against

accused Nos.1 and 2 and liberty is reserved for further

investigation insofar as other accused persons, including the

petitioner is concerned. It appears that similar fraud is

committed even in other States and therefore, custodial

interrogation of the petitioner, who is the head of the University -5- NC: 2025:KHC:24119 CRL.P No. 8143 of 2025 HC-KAR

which has issued the fraudulent and fake marks cards, degree

certificates etc. is necessary. Accordingly, she prays to dismiss

the petition. 6. First informant, who is the Chief Editor of a Digital News

Media, based on credible information had conducted a sting

operation in the office of accused No.1 - Mohan and found that

he was issuing marks cards and degree certificates to the

students after collecting huge money from them for various

graduate and post graduate courses in the name of Apex

Professional University, Arunachal Pradesh and other

Universities of Arunachal Pradesh and therefore, she had

submitted a first information before the CCB Bengaluru City

Police, Bengaluru, which had resulted in registering FIR in

Crime No.63/2024, initially against accused No.1 - Mohan. 7. During the course of investigation, a raid was conducted

to the office premises of accused No.1 and huge number of

fake marks cards and degree certificates pertaining to various

courses including post graduate and professional courses were

seized. In addition to the same, documents such as e-stamp

agreements, format of duplicate marks card etc. were also -6- NC: 2025:KHC:24119 CRL.P No. 8143 of 2025 HC-KAR

seized from the premises of accused No.1. Accused No.2 was

found to be working along with accused No.1. After accused

No.1 and 2 were arrested, during the course of their

interrogation, they have allegedly confessed to the crime and it

appears that they also have stated that petitioner is the Vice

Chancellor of the aforesaid University in the name of which the

fraudulent and fake marks cards, degree certificates etc., were

issued to the students after collecting money from them. They

also had stated that students were not required to appear for

any examinations. It is under these circumstances, enquiry

notices was issued to the petitioner and learned HCGP has

submitted that inspite of repeated enquiry notices, the

petitioner has not cooperated for the purpose of investigation. 8. During the course of investigation, 164 marks cards of

various students relating to various graduate and post graduate

courses were recovered from the premises of accused Nos.1

and 2 and about 38 incriminating documents were also

collected. From a reading of the charge sheet, which is now

filed, it is very clear that the said charge sheet is filed only as

against accused Nos.1 and 2 and learned HCGP has brought to -7- NC: 2025:KHC:24119 CRL.P No. 8143 of 2025 HC-KAR

the notice of this Court that, liberty has been reserved to the

investigating agency to conduct further investigation insofar as

other accused including the petitioner is concerned. 9. In Crl.P.No.1522/2025 which was dismissed as

withdrawn, in paragraph No.3, this Court had observed as

follows:- 10. Though learned Senior counsel for the petitioner has

submitted that the alleged offences are triable by the Court of

Magistrate and the maximum punishment for the same is

imprisonment for a period of seven years, the same itself

cannot be a criteria for grant of anticipatory bail to an accused -8- NC: 2025:KHC:24119 CRL.P No. 8143 of 2025 HC-KAR

who according to the prosecution has indulged in committing

the crime which has serious impact on the society. According to

the prosecution, students who have not even appeared for the

examinations and who are not at all qualified were issued the

various degrees including post graduate degrees and based on

the same, the said students would have secured jobs in private

companies and also in Government Departments. 11. As rightly contended by learned HCGP, raid was

conducted only in the office of the University at Bengaluru and

issuance of similar fake marks cards and degree certificates in

other States by the very same University cannot be ruled out.

For the said purpose, interrogation of the petitioner who is the

Vice chancellor of the University becomes very necessary. Since

the marks cards and degree certificates were issued to the

students without even conducting any examination, it cannot

be said that the petitioner had no knowledge of the alleged

fraud that was being committed in the office of the University

at Bengaluru. The material on record would go to show that

petitioner hails from State of Punjab and he is the Vice

Chancellor of a University at Arunachal Pradesh. The fraud has -9- NC: 2025:KHC:24119 CRL.P No. 8143 of 2025 HC-KAR

been committed in the office of the University at Bengaluru and

it appears that University has acquired immovable properties

even in Bengaluru in the name of University. Therefore, it is

apparent that petitioner has a major role in the functioning of

the university of which he claims to be the Vice Chancellor. 12. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Devinder

Kumar Bansal v. State of Punjab - (2025) 4 SCC 493, has

observed in paragraph Nos.23 and 24, as follows:- 13. In the case of SERIOUS FRAUD INVESTIGATION

OFFICE VS. ADITYA SARDA - 2025 SCC ONLINE SC 764,

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in paragraph No.18 has observed as

follows:- Economic offences stand as a different class as they
 affect the economic fabric of the society. In Directorate of Enforcement v. Ashok Kumar Jain [(1998) 2 SCC 105; 1998 SCC (Cri) 510], it was
 held that in economic offences, the accused is not
 entitled to anticipatory bail." 14. In the case of Y.S JAGAN MOHAN REDDY VS.

CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION - (2013) 7 SCC

439, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in paragraph Nos.34 and 35,

has observed as follows:- rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of public
 funds need to be viewed seriously and considered as
 grave offences affecting the economy of the country as
 a whole and thereby posing serious threat to the
 financial health of the country. 35. While granting bail, the court has to keep in
 mind the nature of accusations, the nature of evidence
 in support thereof, the severity of the punishment
 which conviction will entail, the character of the
 accused, circumstances which are peculiar to the
 accused, reasonable possibility of securing the
 presence of the accused at the trial, reasonable
 apprehension of the witnesses being tampered with,
 the larger interests of the public/State and other
 similar considerations." 15. In the case of NIMMAGADDA PRASAD V. CENTRAL

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION - (2013) 7 SCC 466, the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in paragraph No.23 has observed as

under:- Incontrovertibly, economic offences have serious
 repercussions on the development of the country as a whole.
 In State of Gujarat v. Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal [(1987) 2
 SCC 364; 1987 SCC (Cri) 364] this court, while considering
 a request of the prosecution for adducing additional
 evidence, inter alia, observed as under : (SCC page 371,
 paragraph 5)

 '5.... The entire community is aggrieved if the
 economic offenders who ruin the economy of the State
 are not brought to book. A murder may be committed in
 the heat of moment upon passions being aroused. An
 economic offence is committed with cool calculation and
 deliberate design with an eye on personal profit
 regardless of the consequence to the community. A
 disregard for the interest of the community can be
 manifested only at the cost of forfeiting the trust and
 faith of the community in the system to administer justice
 in an even-handed manner without fear of criticism from
 the quarters which view white-collar crimes with a
 permissive eye unmindful of the damage done to the
 national economy and national interest.'" 16. It is relevant to note that petitioner had earlier

approached this Court in Crl.P.No.1522/2025 which was

dismissed as withdrawn on 15.04.2025 and as on the said date,

charge sheet was already filed against accused Nos.1 and 2.

There is no change in circumstance thereafter, for entertaining

this successive bail application of the petitioner. Having regard

to the aforesaid aspects of the matter, I am of the opinion that

the prayer made by the petitioner for grant of anticipatory bail

needs to be rejected. Accordingly, petition is dismissed. Sd/- (S VISHWAJITH SHETTY)
 JUDGE

DN