Manoranjan Kumar, 1986 batch officer of the Indian Economic Service (IES), which is a Group A service of the Union of India, the applicant herein, claims to have completed 22 years of service with excellent and outstanding performance and service credentials. During his deputation with Kandla Port Trust, when he was assigned duties of Chief Vigilance Officer in addition to his duties as Deputy Chairman, he claims to have unearthed a scandal which had put the Kandla Port Trust to a colossal loss, in which number of high ups were involved. His endeavour to set the affairs of the Port Trust in order, in which endeavour number of officers were shifted and offences registered against them and others, rattled the concerned authorities, who sought to prematurely terminate the deputation of the applicant. The efforts made by the high ups in easing the applicant from Kandla Port Trust, it is the case of the applicant, succeeded and vide orders dated 8.8.2008 (Annexure A-1) passed by Joint Secretary, Department of Shipping, second respondent herein, the tenure of deputation of applicant was snapped when not even mid-way through and he was repatriated to his parent cadre. It is primarily this order that has been challenged in the present Original Application. The respondents while opposing the cause of the applicant would mainly rely upon the pleasure doctrine of terminating the period of deputation at any stage. Whether premature termination of tenure of the applicant even though, it could be curtailed on the pleasure doctrine, is for his crusade to expose the elements responsible for bungling the affairs of the Port Trust, and was actuated by mala fides of such persons, and whether the order of repatriation even though, innocuous, actually came about by casting aspersions against the applicant and would thus be punitive or stigmatic, are some of the crucial questions debated for our adjudication. 2.	Before we may, however, refer to the rival contentions raised by learned counsel representing the parties on the various pleas raised by the applicant and the defence projected by the respondents, it would be useful to extract facts culminating into filing of the present Original Application. The records are voluminous. The paper-book consists of about 1000 pages. Our endeavour would be to cull out only such facts which may be necessary for determining the issues in controversy. Seen thus, it would appear that the applicant during 22 years of his service has discharged various assignments under Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs (as Deputy Director and Director), under Ministry of Labour and employment (as Director) and has also served on Central Government deputation with the Ministry of Industry, Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (as Deputy secretary). It is the case of the applicant that while discharging these assignments, he has been involved in economic analysis, economic administration, policy formulation and its implementation, and providing necessary inputs in all sectors of economic activities. For being posted under Central deputation under the Central Staffing pattern, his name was retained by the Ministry of Finance and accepted after due scrutiny by the Department of Personnel & Training. The applicant avers that the records available with the 5th respondent, Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs), would reveal that it is only due to an outstanding appraisal of his performance over the period of his service that he was entrusted with the present assignment as Deputy Chairman, Kandla Port Trust. Vide circular dated 2.1.2005, the first respondent invited applications for filling up the post of Deputy Chairman in two of the Major Port Trusts in the country and for their appointment under Section 3(1)(b) of the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963 (hereinafter to be referred as the Act of 1963). Officers belonging to all India Services/Group A Central Services, in case of the post of Deputy Chairman, Kandla Port Trust, were stated as being eligible to be considered for the post. As per the circular, the appointment was to be made for a period of five years or as decided by the competent authority. It is the case of the applicant that there was a deemed representation in the circular aforesaid that the tenured deputation offered for the post of Deputy Chairman, Kandla Port Trust was not to be disturbed except on just grounds. In response to the said circular, the applicant applied for the post of Deputy Chairman, KPT. Vide letter dated 7.9.2006, the first respondent conveyed the approval of the Central government for appointment of the applicant on deputation basis for a period of five years from the date of his taking over the charge or until further orders, whichever event was to take place earlier. The applicant was relieved by the Ministry of Textiles vide order dated 22.9.2006. He assumed the charge of Deputy Chairman, KPT on 25.9.2006. It is the case of the applicant that major Ports in India are run and governed through a group of Trustees constituted under Section 3 of the Act of 1963, which comprises inter alia of a Chairman and a Deputy Chairman appointed by the Central government. In terms of Section 7 of the Act, the Chairman and Deputy Chairman are to hold office during the pleasure of the Central Government. Section 15 prescribes that the Chairman and Deputy Chairman are to be paid such salaries and their services are to be governed in the manner determined by the Central Government from time to time. The duties of Chairman and Deputy Chairman are set out in Section 22 , which inter alia include the duty to attend every meeting of the Board. Section 7 of the Act prescribes for the Chairman and Deputy Chairman to hold office during the pleasure of the Central Government. The applicant avers that it would follow as a natural corollary that such pleasure is to be exercised within the legally permissible parameters as enjoined under Chapter IX of the Constitution of India, as also the law settled by the Honble Supreme Court of India. In this regard, the applicant avers that public servants, such as the applicant, enjoy a special relationship with their employer, and that even though, matters governing government services can be normally regulated by laws and the power to lay down detailed rules for recruitment and conditions of service of Union and State employees have been left to the respective legislatures, the framers of the Indian Constitution have deemed it prudent to assure the services under the Union as also States by providing some constitutional guarantees and safeguards in the matter of recruitment, security of tenure, procedure for disciplinary action etc. the pleasure doctrine, as per the case set up by the applicant, which has been invoked by the Central Government in the present case emanates from the constitutional scheme and has received constitutional sanction by being enacted in Article 310(1) read with 311(1) and (2). It is the case of the applicant that the provisions of Section 7 of the Act of 1963 are a reiteration of this constitutional scheme and since the applicant is an IES officer serving under the Union, the guiding principles of exercise of Central Governments pleasure as laid down in the Constitution would apply mutatis mutandis to his case. Even though, the tenure of a government servant is at the pleasure of the President or the Government, as the case may be, the same is subject to the express constitutional limitations imposed under Article 311(2) , namely, observance of principles of natural justice where action is being taken based on some charges leveled against the government servant. It is further the case of the applicant that the pleasure doctrine is to be invoked in public interest and for public good only and cannot be permitted to be reduced to an arbitrary, unbridled, uncanalised and whimsical power vested in an appropriate authority to be exercised for victimizing honest, devoted and upright government servants, and that most importantly, the form of the order is not conclusive. It is then his case that if an order simpliciter withdrawing pleasure is based upon patently extraneous considerations and to shield corrupt deeds in malicious way, which is sought to be exposed by the officer concerned from whom the pleasure is withdrawn, then this Tribunal would have jurisdiction to summon records and in the event the same is found to be arbitrary, unreasonable, mala fide and in colourable exercise of power, then the same can always be set aside. The underlying principles of pleasure doctrine and the limitations imposed under Article 311(1) and (2) of the Constitution become operative in full vigour and force if an order of reversion is made by the Central Government in ostensible exercise of its pleasure which in fact is made by way of penalty in a mala fide manner and for collateral purpose. 3.	The Central Government through the first respondent, vide letter dated 13.2.2007 conveyed to the applicant the terms and conditions of his appointment which reiterated that he was to be on deputation for a period of five years, i.e., up to 24.9.2011 or until further orders, whichever was earlier. The job requirements of the applicant acting as Deputy Chairman, KPT required him to assist the Chairman in all aspects of Port functioning, to exercise administrative and financial powers and also to supervise the functioning of various departments within the Port. The appointment of the applicant was for a fixed term of five years, and the words or until further orders appearing in the appointment letter did indicate the existence of discretionary powers with the Central Government to exercise/withdraw its pleasure and recall/relieve him from deputation prior to the expiry of the fixed term of five years, if the circumstances so warranted. It is the case of the applicant that while discharging his duties as Deputy Chairman, he assisted the Chairman in all matters concerning the Port that were placed before him and were so discharged as per the powers and duties conferred on him under the Act of 1963, and that on numerous occasions he also discharged duties of Chairman in-charge of the Port, which would be handed over to him by the Chairman every time he was away for holding meetings with officers in the Ministry, or otherwise, and the applicant thus acting as Deputy Chairman as also Chairman in-charge intermittently, strived to perform his functions in the manner envisaged under the Act so as to ensure smooth, effective and commercially competitive functioning of the Port as per law. It is further his case that the performance of the Port during his short period of 14 months as Deputy Chairman showed sharp increase in terms of target achievement etc. so that from being number 4 Port in December, 2006, it became number 2 in December, 2007 as per data released by the Indian Ports Association to the Chairmen of all Major Ports through letter dated 3.1.2008; during this period, the Port also ranked number 1 in some months in terms of cargo handling. The data would show that the traffic handled at KPT during that period exceeded the target set by the Government of India. The applicant enlists following in regard to improvements that came about during his tenure as Deputy Chairman, KPT: 4.	KPT, like other Port Trusts, also has a Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring preventive and punitive vigilance and reporting the same to Central Vigilance Commission. It is the case of the applicant that the Secretary, KPT, was at that time acting as CVO for KPT. Notwithstanding, when some doubts surfaced in the Ministry regarding certain allotment of lands wherein gross irregularities were seen to have been committed, inter alia by allowing change in use of land from warehouse to a container freight station, the CVO in the Department of Shipping, who was also Joint Secretary (Ports) (second respondent herein) solicited active participation and advice from the applicant in resolving the issue and also held meetings at New Delhi for that purpose. Considering the need for an increased and more effective vigilance in the affairs of KPT, and further considering the exemplary performance of the applicant as Deputy Chairman, KPT who had demonstrated required sensitivity and response towards issues raising serious vigilance concerns, it is the case of the applicant, the Central Government through the first respondent considered it appropriate to give additional charge to the applicant to act as CVO, KPT, and accordingly a proposal of entrusting the said charge to him was forwarded by the first respondent to the fourth respondent, who communicated its approval to the proposal vide letter dated 26.6.2007. The first respondent thereafter vide letter dated 6.7.2007 informed the Chairman, KPT that the fourth respondent had approved entrustment of additional charge of CVO, KPT to the applicant. In turn, the Chairman issued formal order dated 11.7.2007 appointing the applicant as CVO, KPT as additional charge. It is contended that CVOs acting in various Central Public Sector Undertakings and statutory bodies/utilities are selected and appointed as per guidelines issued by the third respondent in that behalf. The role and functions of CVOs so appointed have been broadly divided into two parts, namely, preventive and punitive. On the preventive side, the CVOs are expected to undertake various measures including inter alia to examine in detail the existing rules and procedures of the organization with a view to eliminate or minimize scope of corruption and mal practices and to maintain proper vigilance on persons with doubtful integrity, whereas on punitive side, the CVOs are expected to take various measures including ensuring speedy processing of vigilance cases at all stages in consultation with the third respondent wherever it is to be so consulted. Up to 11.7.2007, when the applicant was appointed as CVO, KPT, be it the first or the third respondent, they found the applicant to be most suitable for undertaking vigilance activities in a major Port where huge volumes of cargo handling took place, vast extent of estate management was required and government largesse in the form of land leases, allotment of berths etc. to private parties was integral to the day-to day management of the Port activities. Credentials of the applicant, it is his case, while acting as Deputy Chairman, KPT, were found to be best suited to be entrusted with safeguarding and keeping a strict vigil on the huge public property and public monies comprised in the corpus of the KPT. At the time when the applicant assumed the charge of CVO, KPT, he discovered from records that in the last four years of functioning of the Port, though the Port had a designated CVO, there were no vigilance enquiry reports sent either to the first respondent or the fourth respondent, or cases of criminal misconduct noted or reported. The vigilance unit was functioning in a perfunctory manner. To elucidate, the applicant mentions that although the exercise of preparing the agreed list, i.e., a list containing names of officials whose conduct and assets need to be kept under watch in that year, with CBI was undertaken, for unknown reasons no names were included in the said list for all these years. The various reports submitted by the applicant as CVO, KPT and recommended by the fourth respondent for CBI inquiry, it is further the case of the applicant, would establish beyond reasonable doubt that in all these years although the acts of criminal misconduct were being carried out with impunity and valuable properties of the Port were being frittered away, the entire vigilance unit was allowed to be left dysfunctional. The applicant assumed additional charge of CVO, KPT on 11.7.2007 and started submitting vigilance reports to the first and fourth respondents reporting serious irregularities in various matters concerning the port and also reporting criminal misconduct on part of senior-most officers at the Port in perpetrating these irregularities and causing wrongful gains to third parties. It is the case of the applicant that even though, up to this time he was considered to be best by all concerned, but submitting reports with regard to irregularities, dysfunctioning and even criminal acts, started an atmosphere of conflict. The applicant, on one hand, was required to protect the public properties and public monies and, on the other hand, was faced with unwarranted ire of his superiors at the Port Trust as also in Ministry who were becoming increasingly uncomfortable with the reports of CVO which were highlighting gross criminal misconduct on part of senior officers at KPT, including the Chairman. The applicant, it is his case, had only been discharging and implementing the responsibility and mandate given to the CVO and his reports were a mere recording of the same. The applicant was relieved from the charge of Deputy Chairman, and ultimately as CVO, and that too not once but twice over, which was the price that he had to pay for discharging his duties diligently and in accordance with law. The applicant documented criminal misconduct on the part of the Chairman and other senior officials of KPT. While making mention of his reports, the applicant avers that his premature repatriation is a direct fall out of the stringent measures he had taken to protect vast properties of the Port Trust running into thousands of crores and which was being consistently undervalued through a conspiracy between the officers and third parties for private gains. The applicant states that this Tribunal may lift the veil of innocuous order of repatriation, call for records and may even consider giving appropriate directions for holding appropriate inquiry in public interest. 5.	The applicant has summarized in the Application the reports given by him. While giving details of reports submitted by him, it is stated that the profile of lands belonging to KPT would show 6920 acres of Gandhigram township land and 2,20,416 acres of land, 90% of which is submerged under tidal waters. Thus 22,000 acres of land is available for use with KPT. No survey or valuation of these lands has been done in the last 30 years. According to provisions of Section 29(1) of the Act of 1963, all property, assets and funds and all rights to levy tax in relation to major ports, vest in the Board of Trustees for the purposes of administration, control and management. Land grants with respect to port properties are governed under the provisions of Section 34 which inter alia prescribes that lease of any property for more than thirty years is to be with prior approval of the Central government and that if any contract is not made in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the same is not binding on the Board. Further, as per the settled law, contracts by the State, its corporations, instrumentalities and agencies must be normally granted through public auction/tender and not on nomination basis so as to ensure transparency in public procurement and to eliminate irregularities, interference and corrupt practices by authorities concerned. The status report on estate management in KPT, as submitted by the applicant to the first respondent, is annexed with the Application as Annexure A-13. A team headed by Joint Secretary & CVO of the Department of Shipping visited the Kandla Port on 14/15.7.2007 for considering renewal or otherwise of lease of huge area of government land. The applicant, it is his case, was alarmed by the non-serious approach of the team and felt the need to bring in writing correct facts on lease of land before the Ministry so that the interest of the government was protected fully, and vide report dated 3.8.2007 mentioned that nearly 12,000 acres of government land had been given on nomination basis to 2-3 families without due diligence and without competitive bid which was so essential for government contracts. He also mentioned that the grant of lease was also followed by the grant of permission to mortgage the same in crores of rupees by these parties, whereas the Port was getting rental of less than Rs.141 per acre, and that the land granted on nomination basis was also to be allowed to be transferred to other parties without bringing the same before the Board of Trustees. He further mentioned that there was total lack of transparency in lease of land, renewable terms, mortgaging terms etc. His report indicated that prized property of the port lying between the Gandhigram township and Kandla Port was being given to a chosen few. Copy of report dated 3.8.2007 is annexed with the Application as Annexure A-14. The applicant also pointed out that that the said land was giving a total revenue of only Rs.15 lakhs a year, whereas the same had been allowed to be mortgaged to raise resources in crores of rupees by subsequent grant of mortgage permission. He also brought out that the port property, the renewal of lease of which had not taken place since March, 2004, had been allowed to be kept by the lessee without any approval. He mentioned that it could be seen from records of KPT that senior officers and public servants in the Department of Shipping were aware that huge areas of government land had been allowed by the KPT officials to remain in control of a privileged few even beyond the lease term since 2000. He also mentioned in the report that such trespassers had been given facility to mortgage the land and install pipelines etc. in anticipation of the government approval, and that senior government officers in the Ministry were aware that valuable property had been allowed to be converted as commercial land which in turn was giving huge financial benefits to a chosen few and yet since April, 2004 no action had been taken against the officials of KPT or the lessee who were trespassers. The applicant was called for a meeting on 12.11.2007 with Joint Secretary & CVO of the Department. He noted that the Joint Secretary & CVO of the Department got circulated his reports in the meeting which was attended by suspect officers of KPT. According to the applicant, this was a deviation from the established vigilance procedure and he accordingly brought the same to the knowledge of CVC. He later on came to know that the Joint Secretary & CVO of the Department of Shipping had recommended renewal of huge tract of government land to lessees who were not original lessees but were lessees by virtue of transfer of lease rights. The recommendation in favour of renewal was done despite the Joint Secretary & CVO of the Department having received the report of CVO, KPT in the first week of August, 2007, clearly mentioning that renewal of lease of huge tract of government land in the hands of a chosen few would undermine the interest of the Port and that of the exchequer. Vide another report dated 3.8.2007 to the first respondent and a subsequent report dated 27.9.2007 to the third respondent, the applicant brought to the notice of the said respondents the criminal misconduct of Chairman, KPT and other senior public servants under Section 120B and 420 IPC and Section 13(2) read with Section 13(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 in respect of 1010 acres of land leased out to a private party which lease had been earlier determined by the Board of Trustees. The land was allowed to be mortgaged by the Chairman despite the decision of the Board to determine the land and despite the fact that the case filed by the lessee in the court was decided in favour of the Port. The Chairman subsequently also allowed 25 acres of this area to be converted as an area for warehousing and 50 acres of area were allowed to be converted for construction of liquid storage tanks. Liquid storage tanks facilities and construction of warehouse in KPT required competitive bidding process, however, these facilities were allowed to private party by the Chairman without taking the Board of Trustees in confidence. Whereas, copy of letter dated 3.8.2007 addressed to the first respondent is annexed as Annexure A-15, copy of the report dated 27.9.2007 is annexed as Annexure A-16. The reports aforesaid also mentioned that the facility of installing pipeline to all the liquid jetty of KPT was also permitted by the Chairman without obtaining approval from the Board of Trustees, when in terms of Section 33 of the Act of 1963 the Board was the competent authority for entering into a contract for its functions. The applicant noted with concern that his report was circulated among suspects in the room of Joint Secretary & CVO. Later on he came to know that the Joint Secretary & CVO had recommended renewal of lease of even this land despite the fact that the land was sold to the lessees by the original lessees against the covenant of the lease agreement and the fact that the lessees were not original lessees but were lessees by virtue of transfer of lease rights. No action was initiated till 29th January, 2008 by the senior public servants in the Department of Shipping. The recommendation in favour of renewal was done despite the Joint Secretary & CVO of the Department having received the report of CVO, KPT in the first week of August, 2007, clearly mentioning that renewal of lease of huge tract of government land in the hands of a chosen few would undermine interest of the Port and that of the exchequer. In another report dated 21.9.2007, criminal misconduct of senior officials of KPT was mentioned by the applicant wherein KPT had given possession of 25000 sq. mtrs. of prime land without observing the process of law, without any competitive bidding and on nomination basis to yet another private party. It was noticed that the land was given for the specific purpose of setting up an edible oil refinery for imported edible oil of State Trading Corporation (STC). However, no supporting documents were called for from STC and no detailed project reports were examined or called from the party. Subsequently the lease was determined and proceedings under the Public Premises Act were commenced. The High Court of Gujarat refused to intervene despite an application of the party to that effect. Yet the Chairman, KPT revoked the determination order issued earlier and allowed change in use of land to the party. Copy of report dated 21.9.2007 has been placed on records and is marked as Annexure A-17. It is the case of the applicant that instead of setting up an edible oil refinery, the lessee converted the entire area for the use of liquid storage tanks to earn rental income. The land which was given on nomination basis at Rs.2 lakh was allowed to be mortgaged at Rs.9 crores. Subsequently, the exclusive facility of having pipeline connected from the private party to all the jetties of KPT was facilitated. A certificate that the pipeline was an infrastructure facility was also issued, which gave income tax advantage to the party. It was also noticed that the pipeline had been allowed to be laid on the KPT land without any lease agreement, and that the original letter of grant of land to the private party had been tempered/forged by pasting three additional paragraphs in the original allotment letter in the KPT file. It was thus seen that the port officials allowed unfair advantage to accrue to the lessee and that their acts disclosed criminal misconduct. The report thus disclosed criminal misconduct of the Chairman and other senior public servants under Section 120B and 420 IPC and under Section 13(2) read with Section 13(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. No clarification was sought from the applicant nor was any consultation undertaken by the Department with CVO of the Port, and no action had been initiated by the senior-most public servants in the Department of Shipping. In yet another report dated 11.7.2008, the applicant once again brought to the notice of the first respondent that senior functionaries in the Department of Shipping were aware that the and was being commercially exploited since April, 2004 without lease. The applicant recorded in his report as follows: 6.	While highlighting dishonest grants involving valuable cargo handling facility without following the process of law, it has been averred that a preliminary enquiry report dated 17.11.2007 on dishonest grant of 130 meters of waterfront at Cargo Birth No.12 to a private party was furnished by the applicant to the Department of Shipping. This was done without adhering to the provisions of licence agreement approved by the Government of India. It was mentioned that this facility was allowed to the party without approval of the Board of Trustees and the government of India. The report also mentioned that the terminal was only required to handle containerized cargo. The Chairman, however, allowed a chosen few shipping agents to handle bulk and non- containerized cargo at the container terminal. On handling of cargo at container terminal, the said private party was entitled to share 50% of the revenue, thus 50% of the revenue on general non- containerized cargo handled by the private party was a loss to KPT. Copy of report dated 17.11.2007 has been placed on records as Annexure A-18. Hiring charge of vessels calling on Kandla Port is nearly US $ 40,000 to a US $ 60,000 a day, and, therefore, a situation where a vessel is allowed to jump seniority allows the shipping agent an undue advantage of saving US $ 40,000 to US $ 60,000 a day. Thus handling of general cargo at container terminal allowed a chosen few to jump seniority of other vessels and they got a preferential berthing before their due term. Thus a permission to handle general cargo of a few vessels at container terminal was grant of undue pecuniary advantage to a chosen few. Vide yet another report dated 5.10.2007 to the first respondent, the applicant informed that Deputy Conservator and Chairman of the Port had obtained a decision from the Board of KPT to hire two tugs, one at a cost of Rs.1.29 lacs per day and the other at Rs.1.38 lacs per day excluding fuel and taxes. The tugs were hired on the plea that their absence would affect the crucial revenue yielding operation at oil terminal, and the Chairman had assured the Board that only the tugs were made available for shipping operation, charges as agreed would be required to be paid. However, it was noticed that the tugs were not used fully and the hired tugs were used only for 15 days in the first 78 days of hiring. In addition, the Ports own tugs were also not used fully. Subsequently, it was learnt from the user department of tugs that the tugs were not needed. It was also learnt that the tug which had hiring charge of Rs.1.38 lacs per day was hired and the tugs with similar capacity which had the hiring charge of Rs.1.29 lacs per day were not at all hired. Cost of a tug is nearly Rs.20 crores and a tug has life of 20 years. It was noticed in the report that the financial advantages shown in hiring of tugs by the FA&CAO and the Dy. FA&CAO was also prima facie a case of deliberate incorrect examination. These two officers are stated to have been granted out of turn promotion by the Chairman. Copy of report dated 5.10.2007 is annexed with the Application as Annexure A-19. Vide yet another report dated 9.8.2007 read with report dated 18.8.2007, the applicant informed the first respondent of the irregularities with respect to the grant of permission for operating a Container Freight Station (CFS). CFS, it is stated, is an extended arm of port and is notified under Customs Act, 1962 . It is a common user facility with public authority status with fixed installations and offering services for handling and temporary storage of import/export laden and empty containers. The main functions of CFS are to seen dispatch and clearance of containerized cargo. CFS is a valuable activity for which any public authority is required to adopt transparent procedure. It was seen from the record of KPT that the Chairman worked systematically and dishonestly favoured a private party and allowed them a valuable business facility. For similar facility, KPT land was not made available to a Central PSU, namely, CONCOR. The facility allowed to another PSU, namely, Central Warehousing Corporation under a licence agreement approved by the Government also required revenue sharing. However, the said private party was allowed to run CFS on part premises without any revenue sharing with the port. More so, there was no competitive bidding. It is the case of the applicant that he reported a considerable revenue loss to the Port on account of operation of CFS by the private party on the port premises. Copies of reports dated 9.8.2007 and 18.8.2007 are annexed as Annexure A-20 colly. In the meantime, a report of CBI was also received through CVO of the Ministry and was examined by the applicant. As would be seen from the documents on records of the port, and sequence of events as pointed out by CBI that their assessment of dishonest grant of permission to the aforementioned private party was correct. The documents, chronology and the timing of events as well as the analysis furnished in the report of CBI were unambiguously disclosing commission of offence under various Sections of IPC and Prevention of Corruption Act. In the report dated 18.8.2007, the applicant suggested for sanctioning prosecution by CBI and also directed the Secretary, KPT to cancel the allotment of land to the private party. The applicant, however, to his surprise learnt from letter of Additional Commissioner (Customs), Kandla that a meeting had been convened by Secretary, Department of Shipping. It was also confirmed from the Department of Shipping that they had scheduled a meeting vide letter dated 1.10.2007, which was not in the knowledge of the applicant. The applicant, it is averred, clearly noticed a pattern that in the matter of dishonest grant wherever the involvement of Chairman was obvious on record, the Chairman would ensure the involvement of the Ministry even on the matters that were within the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees. The applicant accordingly vide letter dated 18.10.2007 brought all facts to the notice of Joint Secretary & CVO of the Department seeking intervention. When nothing was heard from the Department of Shipping, the applicant brought all facts vide his letter dated 24.10.2007 before Secretary, Department of Shipping clearly mentioning that Ministry of Commerce had also suggested on 13.12.2008 to the aforesaid private party to move their CFS from the Port land, and it was only thereafter that the support to the said private party was not sustained by the Department of Shipping, and the said Department not only postponed the meeting but also withdrew earlier letters wherein they had requested KPT to participate in the meeting. It would be seen that despite being fully aware since December, 2006 that undue benefits had been granted to the said private party by Chairman, KPT, the senior officials of the Ministry intervened only in the manner that allowed continuity of business of the said party. Copy of the letter dated 24.10.2007 is placed on records as Annexure A-22. The applicant in his report dated 26/28.1.2008 noted that the Tariff Authority on the Major Port Trust had castigated KPT and had observed that the methodology adopted to derive lease rental was not found to be in line with the Government guidelines. It noted that the Port had not appointed approved valuer to arrive at correct value and the Port had not determined the market value of its land. It is the case of the applicant that the lease rent of lands is fixed by the Tariff authority at major port at 6% of the market value of the land so determined. It was noted by the applicant that an extremely low lease rental regime had been sustained by the port officials and that the Financial Adviser and the Chief Accountants at the port since 1991-92 had not bothered the land valuation done, despite the lease agreement asking for revision of lease rent based on the market value prevailing at the time of revision. Copy of this report has also been placed on records as Annexure A-23. It is the case of the applicant that he brought to the knowledge of the Department of Shipping that lease rental fixed atRs.141 per acre since July, 2005 was not in the interest of the exchequer and also mentioned that the port authorities on the basis of guidelines issued by the Ministry had allowed such lessees a right in the market in crores of rupees. He clearly mentioned that the low lease rental regime obtained by the Chairman for the big lessees having more than 100 acres of land was a deliberate ploy/conspiracy to grant pecuniary advantages to a chosen few which attracted relevant provisions of IPC and Prevention of Corruption Act. It is the case of the applicant that from the above reports furnished by him as CVO, KPT, it would be noticed that within a short span of four months, he had covered and located the areas of vigilance concern relating to the commercial and organizational activities of KPT and specifically pointed out instances of gross irregularities and criminal misconduct giving detailed reports along with sufficient proof/documents to the first respondent for initiating punitive action against senior officers. The applicant raised serious concerns regarding valuable properties and monies of KPT where grants were being extended to a chosen few without due authorizations from the Board of Trustees which was in full knowledge of the first respondent. It is the case of the applicant that in gross dereliction of their duties as public servants, no action was taken by the officers responsible in the first respondent Ministry against the suspect officers till 29.1.2008, and at no time the first respondent sought any clarification on the reports furnished by the applicant nor did they inform the reasons for delay in action that was caused by the Department. The Joint Secretary & CVO of the Department of Shipping, without taking any cognizance of the reports of the applicant as CVO, KPT recommended renewal of all leases with retrospective effect from April, 2004. This involved huge tracts of land with one business family. The Joint Secretary & CVO did not even take cognizance of the fact that considerable area that he had recommended for renewal had been required by the port for setting up an SEZ and had been included in the proposal of KPT to Ministry of Commerce as SEZ area. The lease conditions required determination of market value of land which had not been done for more than 20 years. While recommending renewal of lease, it had not been considered appropriate for reasons best known to the first respondent, to ask for market value or appoint a valuer for that purpose which is required as per the guidelines issued by the first respondent. The recommendations of the first respondent did not consider the fact brought out in the order of the Tariff Authority for major ports of January, 2006 which conveyed serious reservations on modalities adopted by KPT under the guidance of its Chairman. Conscious and aware of his responsibilities as a Trustee, as Deputy Chairman and as CVO, the applicant discussed the matter with senior functionaries of the fourth respondent and thereafter pursued the matter with the first respondent, much to the annoyance of senior-most officers in the first respondent Ministry. 7.	The facts as mentioned above, it is the case of the applicant, would demonstrate that he was repeatedly bringing large scale irregularities and loss of public revenue to notice of the first and fourth respondents, who were required to take action, but the reports submitted by him, however, rattled vested interests at higher level. Thus, first the applicant was served with a relieving order and thereafter doctrine of withdrawal of pleasure was employed as an instrument to prevent examination into the unholy irregularities brought out by the applicant. It is averred that the applicant was penalized in an illegal, arbitrary and malicious manner by issuance of an order dated 31.1.2008 purporting to relieve him of the charge of Deputy Chairman with immediate effect, and that the way and manner the applicant came to be visited with the order aforesaid, would tantamount to his virtual dismissal from the post of Deputy Chairman, KPT. It is the case of the applicant that senior officers in the Ministry had convened a meeting on 12.11.2007 which was also attended by the applicant, wherein confidential reports of the applicant as CVO of KPT were circulated among the officers listed by him as suspects, and they were told that action would be taken on the reports of the applicant only after the Gujarat assembly elections. It is further his case that that this action only forewarned to be forearmed. In addition to the above action, the applicant also started receiving threats from various quarters. He noted this trend with concern and shared the relevant information with the fourth respondent vide letter dated 4.12.2007. The fourth respondent requested the concerned police officers in Kutch to look into the matter and take necessary action, and vide letter dated 6.12.2007 also informed the first respondent of the same. In furtherance of the said direction of the fourth respondent, the applicant was granted security cover thereafter. It is averred that the third respondent made attempts to withdraw even the security cover provided to the applicant, however, the local police did not agree with the suggestion made by the third respondent for withdrawal of security. 8.	Constrained under the circumstances as mentioned above, the applicant filed OA No.302/2008 in this Tribunal, which came up for hearing on 7.2.2008, when the following interim order was passed: 9.	In the facts and circumstances fully detailed above, the applicant seeks setting aside of order dated 8.8.2008 on variety of grounds, some of which have been seriously debated, which would be referred to hereinafter while dealing with the same. 10.	In pursuance of notice issued by this Tribunal, the respondents have entered appearance. Two sets of replies  one on behalf of the first and second respondents, and the other on behalf of the third respondent, have been filed. It may be mentioned at the very outset that the fourth respondents, CVC, has not chosen to file any reply. During the course of arguments, learned counsel representing the applicant was at pains to state that in a case of this kind where the applicant is a whistle-blower and has exposed a mammoth scandal going on for years in Kandla Port, and the reports submitted by him have been affirmed to have at least a prima facie truth therein, and only then the matter has been referred to CBI for investigation, the fourth respondent ought to have filed a reply. We put it specifically to the counsel representing the fourth respondent as to despite the contentions raised by the learned counsel representing the applicant the said respondent would still not prefer to file reply, the counsel, on instructions, stated that the fourth respondent would not file reply. 11.	In the counter reply filed by respondents 1 and 2, it has inter alia been pleaded that the applicant was appointed vide order dated 7.9.2006 on deputation basis for a period of five years from the date of his taking over the charge of the post or until further orders, whichever event was to take place earlier. The applicant accepted the terms of appointment and joined the deputation post knowing fully well that the tenure of deputation was for a period of five years or until further orders. It is pleaded that in terms of deputation itself the impugned order of repatriation has been passed and the applicant is estopped to aver anything contrary to the terms of appointment on deputation. The respondents aver that as per settled law, a deputationist can be repatriated to his parent department at any time before expiry of the deputation period, and the concerned person in such cases cannot be allowed to aver that he be posted to a post of his choice. The order of repatriation is stated to be an order simpliciter and hence proper and legal. It is averred that the conduct of the applicant as referred to in the Application itself would show that his services were not satisfactory and, therefore, the order of repatriation has been passed, and that the order has been issued in administrative exigencies and in public interest since it was practically becoming difficult to run a prestigious port by the unsatisfactory work and conduct of the applicant. It is pleaded that the applicant instead of devoting his time to the development of the port was involving himself in making frivolous complaints on the analogy that he is a whistle-blower, with the result that it was become increasingly difficult to efficiently and properly run the activities of the port. It is then pleaded that after the earlier order of repatriation was withdrawn, it was expected of the applicant that he would now curb his activities and devote himself to the work of Deputy Chairman, but unfortunately he was found to be incorrigible, which would be reflected in the letters written by the chairman to the competent authority. It is at this stage that the competent authority in the interest of the development of the port was forced by the circumstances created by the applicant himself, to repatriate him from his deputation post in terms of the appointment order. It is then pleaded that various other complaints against the applicants work were also received from persons of chambers of industry to the effect that his conduct was not proper and that he was working against the interest of the port which had the effect of business shifting to private port in the vicinity. The internecine quarrels/differences between the applicant and other senior officers of the port were not conducive to the interests of the port. It is mentioned that the allegations made against the Chairman and other officers of the port are under investigation, and pending investigation the officers have been shifted out of the Kandla Port, and the said officers have complied with the orders of shifting passed. Since allegations/complaints are also pending against the applicant regarding his unsuitability, it is the case of the respondents, it would be only fair and proper that he is repatriated to his parent department rather than continue him in his present posting and resultant squabbles. The applicant, it is stated, was appointed as Deputy Chairman, KPT in terms of Section 3 of the 1963 Act. Section 7 of the Act prescribes that the Chairman and Deputy Chairman shall hold office during the pleasure of the Central Government. Keeping in view the applicants conduct of making repeated frivolous complaints against all and sundry, and even against the officers of the Ministry of Shipping, who have nothing to do with the so called land scam, and further since the work of the Port was suffering due to these internecine squabbles between the officers, it was felt that the best course in the interest of the Port would be to curtail the period of deputation of the applicant. The provisions of the Act of 1963 provide for the Central Government to withdraw its pleasure. The mala fides alleged in the Application are stated to be all figments of imagination of the applicant. It is stated that the applicant was given an opportunity to improve on his performance by devoting himself to work sincerely as Deputy Chairman, KPT, but unfortunately he again without realizing that he was holding a very high post and responsibility, started making reckless allegations and raised unnecessary issues to the detriment of the growth of the port. The applicant was well aware that the complaints made against senior officers were being looked into by the CVC and CBI, and the concerned officers have been transferred from their assignments and new incumbent posted as Chairman, KPT. It is pleaded that the applicant in all good faith should have devoted himself to the growth of the port rather than be a stumbling block to such a growth. It is in these circumstances that a decision was taken to repatriate him. Insofar as, the assertion of the applicant that there was no assessment of valuation of land in KPT done for the last thirty years is concerned, it is stated to be false as the Tariff Authority of Major Ports (TAPT), a quasi judicial body, assessed the value of the land in Kandla and necessary orders issued on 17.1.2006. Similarly, the allegation of the applicant that senior officers of the Ministry were aware that the valuable property allowed to be converted as commercial land, is stated to be totally baseless and fabricated. It is stated that in fact, the Ministry had not extended lease of any individual/firms after 1993. As regards renewal of huge tracts of government land, it is stated that Joint Secretary & CVO of Department of Shipping had not issued any instructions as alleged by the applicant. The applicant, it is stated, has gone to the extent of casting aspersions on a senior civil servant without any substance. The answering respondents, it is further stated, have been receiving reports/complaints against the applicant indicating the adverse affect on the working of the port due to his style of functioning as Deputy Chairman. The respondents thus invoked provisions of Section 7 of the act and withdrew the pleasure of the Central Government on continuance of the applicant as Deputy Chairman. The Kandla Port Trust, it is stated, has been performing excellently during the last several years, however, the continuance of the applicant is having a demoralizing effect not only on officers and staff of the port, but also on different staff federations, the trade and others. The Gandhigram Chamber of Commerce is stated to have also approached the respondents highlighting the decline in the functioning of the port, which is in the public eyes due to the actions of omission and commissions of the applicant. The respondents are also stated to have received complaints stating that the applicant had been indulging in such activities only to benefit some private ports nearby. 12.	In the reply filed on behalf of the third respondent, the cause of the applicant has been opposed on similar grounds as raised in the counter reply filed on behalf of the first and second respondents. We may, however, mention some averments made in the reply which may have bearing upon the controversy. It is pleaded that the answering respondent has to function as per the orders of the first and second respondents, and as such the impugned order of relieving the applicant from his duties as Deputy Chairman has been passed independently by the aforesaid respondents and not at the behest of the answering respondent as alleged. While referring to the pleas raised by the applicant as regards his role as CVO, KPT, it is stated that even though, the role of CVO, as indicated in the Vigilance Manual is to take preventive actions to eliminate or minimize the scope of corruption and malpractice and to maintain proper vigilance on the persons with doubtful integrity, but the applicant would eye everyone as having doubtful integrity and in a prejudicial manner creating fear psychosis in the working environment, and that he never discussed the vigilance cases with his superior, i.e., Chairman and used to send various reports directly to the Ministry as well as CVC on his will, which not only created unhealthy atmosphere amongst the employees of the Port but also discouraged them to work with their free mind. The applicants assertion that the entire vigilance unit of KPT was dysfunctional before his joining has been stated to be incorrect. It is further stated that the applicant was mainly concentrating on the vigilance matters by finding fault in his subordinate officers and was only attending the routine duties of Deputy Chairman as per hierarchy of the organization, and further that the applicant is misleading the court by claiming that he was relieved from the charge of Deputy chairman because he was highlighting misdeeds of senior officers of KPT. It is pleaded that the applicant was repatriated by the first and second respondents recording the displeasure of the Minister, and that there are valid reasons for recording displeasure on the work and conduct of the applicant. It is then pleaded that it is the basic principle of deputation that the person concerned can always and at any time be repatriated to his parent department and there is no vested right in such a person. It is stated that the applicant instead of devoting himself to official duties of Deputy Chairman and CVO, KPT, unfortunately continued with his actions of creating hurdles in the smooth functioning of the port; due to his obstructive and negative approach, there was a strong sense of insecurity and lack of motivation amongst senior officials of the port. It is further stated that grievances have also been made by the business community, representatives of the employers and officers of KPT about the negative approach of the applicant towards general public, port development and his harassment of port officers. The working of the applicant is stated to have done unimaginable harm to the port where urgency and speed are important. These grievances against the applicant are stated to be under consideration at various levels including Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport & Highways. The applicant is stated to be in the habit of making serious allegations against all incumbents of the post of Chairman; he did not even spare the new incumbent (answering respondent) who has nothing to do with the allegation of land scam raised against other officers at the relevant point of time. It is at this point of time when the working of the port was seriously affected by the repeated allegations and descriptions by the applicant that the answering respondent wrote a letter to the first and second respondents about the unsuitability of the applicant for the post of Deputy Chairman. Complaints against the applicant were also received from chamber of commerce and industry and it is after considering all aspects of the case that it was decided that the applicant should be repatriated to his parent department. It is stated that the applicant had come to the KPT on 22.8.2008 and tried to forcefully assume charge of the Deputy Chairman, however, the applicant was asked to await the instructions from Central Government. As one Deputy Chairman was already functioning and in absence of any instructions from Central Government withdrawing the said appointment or in absence of prohibition on the next incumbent, it was deemed appropriate that the applicant be asked to wait for further instructions to be received from Central government pursuant to the orders of this Tribunal. Shri Bhaskarachar has already been appointed and is discharging duties of Deputy Chairman, KPT in accordance with Ministrys order dated 14.8.2008, and he had taken over the additional charge of the post of Deputy chairman w.e.f. 18.8.2008. The applicant thus could not be handed over the charge. With regard to improvement of the port, it is stated that the sharp increase in terms of target achievement does not depend only upon the functioning of the applicant as Deputy Chairman but also depends upon many other factors. The statement of the applicant that the performance of the port within the short period of 14 months of his tenure showed sharp increase in terms of target achieved is denied. It is stated that the applicant is being opportunist, as in fact his contribution has been negative. The port achieved top-most performance during the years 1997, 1998 and 1999 also. The sharp increase in performance of the port is stated to be due to the impact of earlier planned developments before joining of the applicant as Deputy Chairman. Appointment of applicant as CVO is stated to be in routine course. No special evaluation of his credentials, qualifications etc. is stated to have been done. The averments made by the applicant with regard to non-containerized cargo have been denied. It is stated that allotment of berths to the vessels in the port is done in accordance with berthing policy framed for the purpose. It is further stated that the tugs are hired for handling of vessels as per the requirement of increased shipping, and the deployment of tugs is an operational matter dependent upon requirement of shipping operations. Implications of operation of CFS by private party, it is stated, are still under examination. It is, however, stated that the operation of another CFS would result in augmentation of cargo throughout KPT. Extremely low lease rental regime has been denied. Threats extended to the applicant have been denied. They are stated to be figment of imagination of the applicant. The requisition for deployment of Gujarat police was directly sent by the applicant without the knowledge of Chairman, KPT, and based on the request of the applicant the State police arranged security to him in the office as well as at his residence. The relieving order of the applicant, it is stated, was on the basis of order issued by the Ministry of Shipping. It is stated that it was expected of the applicant to devote himself to official duties of Deputy Chairman and CVO, KPT, but unfortunately the applicant continued with his actions of creating hurdles in smooth functioning of the port. It is at this point of time when the working of the port was seriously affected by repeated allegations and disruptions by the applicant that the present Chairman wrote a letter to official respondents about the unsuitability of the applicant for the post of Deputy Chairman. 13.	The applicant has filed rejoinder to the counter affidavit filed on behalf of the third respondent. While making a mention of his reports referred to in the OA, it is averred that the said reports have not only been admitted and accepted by the first and second respondents as would be evident from their affidavit filed before the Honble Gujarat High Court at Ahmedabad in Special Civil Application No.2362/2008 between M/s Friends Salt Works and Allied Industries vs. Union of India , but even the fourth respondent, CVC, has after taking serious cognizance of these reports recommended CBI action, and action has since been commenced in recent past. The allegations made in the reply of the third respondent are stated to be contrary to the facts and circumstances as also on records and admitted by the said deponent before the High Court of Gujarat. It is pleaded that contrary to what has been alleged in the reply, the facts on record would go to show that the third respondent has filed a false affidavit basing the case on reckless and vexatious allegations, not substantiated by any record and made in order to support and shield corrupt senior officers of the KPT and the misdeeds of senior government functionaries in the respondent Ministry, who have allowed and are continuously allowing misuse of thousands of acres of highly valued land of the Central Government without any lease agreement and without any tendering process to a chosen few who are influential persons in the areas of Gandhigram. In the matter of M/s Friends Salt Works & Allied Industries in Special Civil Application No.2362/2008 Shri Pravin Agarwal, the third respondent therein, has stated on affidavit before the Gujarat High court that 1010 acres of port land leased out to the above firm are worth thousands of crores and have been obtained by the private party wrongly. The balance sheet of the said private party as per its own admission before the High Court, admits having done a business of Rs.180 crores plus in each of the last four years. Thus undue pecuniary advantage of business of more than Rs.850 crores has been admitted by respondents 1 to 3 to have flown to a private party that has been receiving friendly treatment from the respondents at least since April, 2004. It is stated that these are the facts admitted by the respondents on sworn affidavits before the High Court, and thus their mala fide in claiming the applicants vigilance reports as frivolous and the claim that they were aimed to harass officials of the port or that they were red herring, are nothing but mala fide attempt to mislead this Tribunal with a view to obstruct justice. Value of land of 12000 acres which is property of Central Government, it is stated, is admitted to be not less than Rs.12000 crores in the face of affidavit sworn in by the third respondent before the High Court of Gujarat in SCA 2362/2008, wherein he had sworn that the value of 1010 acres of land under illegal occupation of M/s Friends Salt Works, if permitted to be auctioned as per the government guidelines, would receive amount which would go to the tune of thousands of crores of rupees, ultimately to the benefit of and serve the public at large. If the auction is not undertaken, then the consequence would be benefitting a particular party at the cost of public exchequer, which is apparent in the present case. The applicant states that it is admitted by the respondents that allowing 12000 acres to remain in illegal possession of a chosen few without public auction and without lease, would deprive public exchequer, and that such a colossal and valuable asset has been allowed to remain in unauthorized possession of chosen few by the respondents at least since April, 2004, and that too without any tendering process and without any approval from any authority, leave aside approval in terms of Transaction of Business Rules of 1961. The applicant has then made a mention of the eight reports given by him pertaining to the land scam, container freight, vigilance report of M/s Friends Salt Works, which was run by M/s Seabird Marine Services Ltd, M/s Friend Oil and Chemical Terminal, M/s ABG Container, matters relating to Dredging, M/s Tejmalbhai and Company, irregular appointments, hiring of tugs and grant of land for petrol pump to a trustee of the port in the name of Indian Oil Company. It is averred that out of the aforesaid vigilance reports, as per even admitted facts on record of KPT and Central Government, it appears that the vigilance report has been approved and on consideration of the contents thereof, CVC has also advised the Ministry to refer the matter to CBI, and also for detailed investigation to be carried out by CBI in offences relating to Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 120B and 420 IPC in the matter of M/s Friends Salt Works and Allied Industries and M/s CFS, and that CBI investigation is in advance stage in the matter of M/s Tejmalbhai & Co. It is then averred that the Central Government had agreed with the report of the applicant that had detected irregular, illegal and favourable appointments made by Chairman to certain officers, who have also been reverted to lower posts, however, without fixing any responsibility for undue promotions and excess payments made to select officers in violation of rules by the Chairman. The applicant denies averments made in the written statement that he eyes everyone as having doubtful integrity and made complaints against all officers. He has elaborated the said plea in the rejoinder in details. The applicant also explains receipt of complaints regarding his unsuitability and the displeasure recorded by the Ministry. He also joins issues with the respondents with regard to his acting in a prejudicial manner and creating fear psychosis. The allegation made by the respondents that he was not discussing vigilance cases with his superior has also been denied. The assertion made in the counter reply that the performance of KPT was adversely affected by the conduct of the applicant has been styled to be false statement made by the third respondent. The applicant has given details of development initiatives taken by him, and the function carried out by him despite hurdles created by Shri Pravin Agarwal. The applicant has also given details, which, according to him, would be false averments made in the affidavit of the respondents pertaining to his role as CVO. He has also given details of complaints against the Chairman and facts about his involvement in irregularities at KPT. He has also given instances, which, according to him, would prove malice of the third respondent and obstruction caused by him. 14.	The third respondent has filed a sur-rejoinder wherein, it has been pleaded that the allegations made in the rejoinder are not only false, frivolous, untenable, misconceived and unsustainable, but also unsubstantiated, unwarranted, unjustified and non-germane to the issues arising in the case. It is stated that the applicant has elaborated some of the contentions, which the answering respondent disputes and denies being inconsistent with and/or contrary to the record. It is stated that the applicant has sought to rely upon certain alleged land scam/cases, on which the respondent is not advised to comment or deal with the same inasmuch as, the same are pending in courts and are sub judice. The averments made by him in the rejoinder, it is stated, however, would not and cannot advance his case either in fact or in law. Filing of certain affidavits in Gujarat High Court is admitted on certain bona fide belief of the truth of the allegations, as contended by the applicant. It is submitted that the complaints made by the applicant are under investigation by various agencies, and, therefore, it would not be correct to make any comment thereon. It is, however, stated that the complaints made by the applicant are based on one-sided view with regard to the loss suffered, if any. 15.	We have heard the learned counsel representing the parties at length and with their assistance examined the records of the case. 16.	Shri K. K. Rai, Senior Advocate, who appears in support of the Application, contends that the applicant was appointed as Deputy Chairman, KPT under provisions of the Act of 1963, and that he can be removed only on the grounds specified in the Act aforesaid, and by no other method. The appointment of the applicant, it is urged, may appear to be on deputation, but his tenure of five years could not be curtailed and he had to enjoy his full tenure of five years. With a view to appreciate the contention raised by the learned counsel, it would be relevant to refer to some basic provisions of the Act of 1963. The Act applies, in the first instance, to the major ports of Cochin, Kandla and Vishakhapatnam, and the Central Government may, by notification in the official gazette, apply the provisions of the Act to such other major port, and with effect from such date, as may be specified in the notification. Board has been defined in Section 2 (b) . Board, in relation to a port, means the Board of Trustees constituted under the Act for that post. Deputy Chairman has been defined to mean, as per Section 2(e) , Deputy Chairman, or, as the case may be, a Deputy Chairman of a Board and includes the person appointed to act in his place under Section 14 . Trustee, as per Section 2(y) , in relation to a port, would mean a member of the Board constituted for the port. The Central Government shall cause to be constituted in respect of any major port a Board of Trustees to be called the Board of Trustees of that port, in view of provisions contained in Section 3 , which shall consist of Trustees, amongst others, a Chairman to be appointed by the Central Government, and one Deputy Chairman or more, as the Central Government may deem fit to appoint. In view of provisions contained in Section 5 , every Board constituted under the Act shall be a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal with power, subject to provisions of the Act, to acquire, hold or dispose of property and may be the name by which it is constituted, sue or be sued. Disqualifications for office of Trustee have been mentioned in Section 6 . Section 6 reads as follows: (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, - (a)	every person elected or appointed by name to be a Trustee shall hold office to which he is elected or so appointed, for a term of two years commencing on the 1st day of April next following his election or appointment, as the case may be; Provided that the term of office of a member elected to represent any body of persons shall come to an end as soon as he ceases to be a member of that body; (b)	a person appointed by virtue of an office to be a Trustee shall, until the Central Government by notification in the official gazette otherwise directs, continue to be a Trustee so long as he continues to hold that office.

We do not find any merit whatsoever in the contention of the learned counsel that Deputy Chairman appointed under the Act of 1963, who is also a Trustee, can be removed only as per provisions contained in Section 6 , reproduced above. Chairman and Deputy Chairman are also Trustees, but their appointment is to be made by the Central Government. Not more than 19 persons in the case of each of the ports of Bombay, Calcutta and Madras, and not more than 17 persons in the case of any other port, shall be Trustees, which shall consist of such number of persons, as the Central Government may, from time to time, by notification in the official gazette, specify, to be appointed by that Government from amongst persons who are in its opinion capable of representing any one or more of such of the interests as mentioned in sub-clause (c)(i) of Section 3(1) of the Act. Sub-clause (c)(ii) of Section 3(1) deals with such Trustees who are elected. It is quite apparent from reading of the provisions of the Act that insofar as, Chairman and Deputy Chairman are concerned, they would hold office during the pleasure of the Central Government. Insofar as, other elected or appointed by the government Trustees are concerned, they shall hold office for a term of two years commencing on the 1st day of April next following his election or appointment, as the case may be. There may be a term of two years for other Trustees, as mentioned in Section 3 , which may be curtailed only on the dint of disqualifications provided in Section 6 , but insofar as, the Chairman and Deputy Chairman are concerned, they hold office at the pleasure of the Central Government. The applicant may have been selected as Deputy Chairman on the basis of applications invited by the government from various bodies, by virtue of which he may be a Trustee as well, and his tenure as specified in the order of appointment was five years, but the same could well be curtailed on the pleasure doctrine invoked by the respondents. In his endeavour, however, to convince this Tribunal that the term of the applicant could not be curtailed, and if curtailed, it would amount to dismissal, the learned counsel places reliance upon the judgment of the Honble Supreme court in Union of India & Another v Shardindu [(2007) 6 SCC 276]. Facts of the case aforesaid reveal that the respondent therein was informed on 31.12.2003 that he had been selected as Chairperson of National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) for a period of four years or till he was to attain the age of 60 years, whichever was to be earlier. He was relieved by the UP Government on 21.1.2004 and he assumed charge of Chairperson, NCTE on 22.1.2004. It was alleged that while the respondent was working as Director, State Council for Educational Research and Training in the State of UP, an inquiry was conducted by the State Vigilance Commission at the behest of the State Government in respect of examination of 2001, in 2004. The Commission submitted its report on 27.3.2005, based upon which an FIR came to be registered on 19.9.2005 implicating seven persons including the respondent, and a separate order was passed by the State Government placing him under suspension pending commencement of disciplinary proceedings. When this fact came to the notice of the Union of India, it passed an order on 18.11.2005 terminating the deputation of the respondent as Chairperson, NCTE. This order was successfully challenged in writ petition before the Delhi High Court. Thus, the appeal before the Honble Supreme Court. The order impugned in the case aforesaid reads as follows: (2) The term of office of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson and the Member-Secretary shall be four years, or till they complete the age of sixty years, whichever is earlier. (3) The conditions of service of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson and the Member-Secretary shall be such as may be prescribed. (4) The term of office of Members [other than the Members specified in clauses (a) to (l) and clauses (n) and (o) of sub-section (4) of section 3 ] shall be two years or till fresh appointments are made, whichever is later, and other conditions of service of such Members shall be such as may be prescribed.

While dealing with the issue, the Honble Supreme Court observed that the distinction between statutory appointments and pleasure appointments has to be kept in mind. The pleasure appointments are such where the incumbents are appointed at the pleasure of the President, like Governors etc. As against this, statutory appointments are made under the statute and the service conditions of the incumbents are governed by the statute. They are not pleasure appointments. Governor appointed under the constitution is purely pleasure appointment or appointment of such nature which the incumbent holds at the pleasure of the President of the Government as the case may be. Such appointments may be cut short. Honble Supreme Court further observed that This appointment is for a fixed tenure after due selection under the Act. Therefore, this kind of deputation stands on an entirely different category. There appears to be vital distinction and difference between provisions of the Act of 1963 and the NCTE Act whereunder Dr. Shardindu was appointed as Chairperson, NCTE. In the case dealt by the Supreme Court, the appointment under provisions of the NCTE Act was on selection for a definite period. Minimum period for an incumbent to hold office had to be four years. It would be more if the age of the incumbent be such that from the date of his appointment to the date when he may attain 60 years of age, the period may be more. The minimum period was fixed under the statute. In the present case, whereas it may be true that the appointment of the applicant is under statute, i.e., the Act of 1963, but the provisions of the statute do not provide a fixed minimum tenure. In fact, the statute provides no period whatsoever and the term of appointment is on pure and simple pleasure of the Central Government. The appointment of the applicant may thus be statutory, but when the statute itself may not fix any period and the fact that the period may be only dependent upon the pleasure of the Central Government and the tenure as such might have been provided by virtue of instructions or guidelines, entirely different parameters shall have to be applied. By way of illustration, we may mention that not only under the provisions of NCTE Act but in number of statutes appointments are for fixed tenure. When, therefore, the minimum term may be statutorily fixed and the Government may like to curtail the same, this can be done only on the specified grounds that may be mentioned in the concerned statute itself. Such appointments, normally, would be called tenure appointments/posts and not posts held by persons on deputation. In a case where, therefore, the statute may not provide any minimum tenure and the same may be forthcoming from guidelines, and when even such guidelines may contain a pleasure doctrine to cut it short, no argument as advanced by the learned counsel that the same cannot be cut short, and if cut short without following the procedure for removal provided under the Act, the same would be illegal or arbitrary, can be accepted. The facts of the case relied upon by the learned counsel in Shardindu (supra), in our considered view, are distinguishable and cannot be applied to the facts of the present case. 17.	The applicant, in our view, was appointed on the post of Deputy Chairman, KPT on deputation basis. Order dated 7.9.2006 appointing the applicant on the post aforesaid reads as follows: 18.	In service jurisprudence, deputation is treated to be assignment of an employee of one department or cadre to another department or cadre. The deputation is resorted to in public interest to meet exigencies of public service. It is a tripartite agreement. It is based upon consent and voluntary decision of the principal employer to lend the service of his employee, which decision has to be accepted by the borrowing department/ employer. It also involves consent of the employee. Deputation subsists so long as parties to tripartite agreement adhere to the same. The moment this tripartite agreement is repudiated, the employee would have no legally enforceable right to continue up to the agreed period of his deputation. 19. 	Supreme Court in Ratilal B. Soni & Others v State of Gujarat & Others [1990 (Supp) SCC, 243] has held that a deputationist can be reverted to his parent cadre at any time, who would have no right to be absorbed on the post of deputation. In Kunal Nanda v Union of India & Another [AIR 2000 SC 2076] the Supreme Court has held that the basic principle underlying deputation itself is that the person can always and at any time be repatriated to his parent department to serve in his substantive position at the instance of either of the departments and there is no vested right in such a person to continue on deputation or get absorbed in the department to which he had gone on deputation. A Division Bench of Punjab & Haryana High Court in Gurinder Pal Singh v State of Punjab [2005 (1) SLR 629], after taking into consideration the decisions of the Apex court in Kunal Nanda (supra), Ratilal B. Soni (supra), and Rameshwer Parshad v Managing Director, U.P. Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Limited [1999 (5) SLR 203 (SC)] has held that a deputationist would have no vested right to continue in the borrowing department even till the completion of the stipulated period of deputation. It is a tripartite contract and can be continued only if all the parties like it to continue. 20.	The plea raised by the applicant that even though, the order of repatriation may appear to be innocuous, but the same is stigmatic in nature, the court can always lift the veil to find out the nature of the order, is not in dispute. As admitted at all ends, the court can always lift the veil and find out the real reasons behind the order, and if the same may be stigmatic, the principles of natural justice would be straightway attracted, and the employee cannot be shown the exit door unless he is heard in the matter. The controversy, insofar as the circumstances leading to repatriation of the applicant were such that it would be stigmatic or is because of some aspersions that might have been cast on the applicant, on facts, however, veers thick. We are of the considered view that as to whether the order is stigmatic or punitive or casts aspersions on the employee concerned, is always a question of fact and would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case. No straitjacket formula can be laid. Before we may, however, see the facts leading to the order of repatriation of the applicant, we may only make a mention of three decisions  one each of the Delhi High Court, Supreme Court, and this Tribunal, directly on the issue. In Union of India & Others v J. P. Verma & Another [98 (2002) Delhi Law Times 510 (DB)], the Delhi High Court was hearing a writ filed against the order passed by the Tribunal. J. P. Verma, a member of Indian Police Service, was sent on deputation as Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) in CRPF. He was appointed on deputation basis as ADGP in June, 1998. He was sponsored for the post of Director General (Investigation) in the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). Secretary General, NHRC wrote a letter to the Union of India stating that the Chairperson had directed him to place on record the fact that when they contacted Shri M. K. Shukla and Shri J. P. Verma, they were surprised to find that both the officers were only keen to find out about the perquisites attached to the office of Director General (Investigation), NHRC  one officer wanted to know whether he could travel as he liked or whether he would have to seek permission from the Chairperson; and the other officer wanted to know about the number of constables/orderlies a DG (Police) is entitled, and whether he would be provided the same number. Both the officers had shown their disinclination to come and meet the chairperson after being told about the availability or otherwise of the kind of perks they were looking for in the NHRC. The Chairperson was appraised of the matter and he directed that the matter be brought to the notice of the Home Ministry to highlight the lopsided priorities of these senior officers who were waiting to serve the nation in the rank of Director General of Police. The order of repatriation came to be passed against which OA No.1459/2000 was filed, which was allowed by the Tribunal. It was urged on behalf of the Union of India before the High Court that in a case of this nature, where the first respondent (J. P. Verma) did not suffer any loss of emoluments, status nor by reason thereof suffered any stigma or penalty, principles of natural justice were not required to be complied with. Per contra, it was submitted on behalf of the respondent that the letter of NHRC was a foundation for passing the order of repatriation. A non-speaking innocuous order, it was further urged, cannot be a ground not to lift the veil inasmuch as, the court is entitled to, in a given situation, to delve deep in the matter for the purpose of finding out the actual reason therefor. On the rival contentions of the learned counsel representing the parties, as mentioned above, the Division Bench of the High Court held that There cannot be any doubt whatsoever that only because an order is not a stigmatic one on its face, the Court even in a given situation, like the present one, cannot find out the real motive for passing the said order. In V. Ramakrishnan (supra), the order of repatriation was held to be an outcome of malice in law. The Honble Supreme Court while dealing with the issue of no legal right of a deputationist to continue in the deputation post held that ordinarily, a deputationist has no legal right to continue in the post, and indisputably has no right to be absorbed in the post to which he is deputed, but there is no bar thereto as well. The Honble Court further held that it may be true that when deputation does not result in absorption in the service to which an officer is deputed, no recruitment in its true import and significance takes place as he is continued to be a member of the parent service, and that when the tenure of deputation is specified, despite a deputationist not having an indefeasible right to hold the said post, ordinarily the term or deputation should not be curtailed except on such just grounds, as mentioned above, as unsuitability or unsatisfactory performance; and further that even where the tenure is not specified, an order of reversion can be questioned when the same is mala fide, and an action taken in a post-haste manner also indicates malice. In OA No.1929/2006 in the matter of Kulbir Krishan, IPS v Union of India & Another , decided by this Tribunal on 5.6.2007, where one of us (V.K.Bali, Chairman) was a Member, the order of repatriation on premature termination of the period of deputation was challenged inter alia on the ground that the same was punitive. The order in the said case was also innocuous. It was, however, urged that the form of the order was not conclusive and what was relevant was plain reason for repatriation and not the strategy of the innocuous order. In-fighting of the two officers of equal rank had resulted into repatriation of both. The applicant alone, however, challenged the order. On facts of the case aforesaid, it was held that the order even after lifting the veil, could not be found to be punitive. We had called for the records of the case and examined the same with a view to find out the real reason for repatriation of the applicant in the said case. While giving a finding on facts, we observed thus: 21.	Once, the position of law is that the order of repatriation can be questioned even by lifting the veil, if the same is an outcome of some aspersions against the employee and also if the same is mala fide, the time is now ripe to see the factual position of the case. 22.	With a view to find out the reason behind the repatriation of the applicant, we had called for original records, which have indeed been made available to us. We have closely examined the same. Before we may, however, refer to the records, we may make a mention of some patent and admitted facts. It may be recalled that the applicant has since put in 22 years of service. He has discharged various assignments under Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs (as Deputy Director and Director), under Ministry of Labour and employment (as Director) and has also served on Central Government deputation with the Ministry of Industry, Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (as Deputy secretary). His service credentials as set out in the Application and as referred to in paragraph 2 hereinabove, which are really impressive, are not in dispute. His specific averment that due to an outstanding appraisal of his performance over the period of his service, he was entrusted with the present appointment as Deputy Chairman, KPT, is also not in dispute. The first respondent had invited applications for filling up the post of Deputy Chairman in two of the Major Port Trusts under Section 3(1)(b) of the Act of 1963, and officers belonging to all India Services/Group A Central Services, in the case of Deputy Chairman, KPT, were eligible to be considered, and that from amongst them the applicant was selected, is also not in dispute. His ACR dossiers have been made available to us. We may not make mention of various columns of his ACRs, as it might unnecessarily burden the judgment, which in the facts and circumstances of the case, in any case, has to be otherwise also a long one, but we may reproduce the remarks against the columns relating to overall gradings, integrity and inter-personal relations and team work in his ACRs between the period 1988-89 and 2005-06 as under: 1991-92	Certified	For the reasons stated above I would rate him as an outstanding officer	His relations with both superiors and subordinates are cordial. He always accepts constructive criticism and is an asset of the team in which he is placed. 1992-93	Certified	Based on above, I would rate him outstanding	His relations with superiors, colleagues and subordinates are cordial. He is receptive to the views of others and takes advice in good spirit. He is an asset in any team. 1993-94	Certified	On the basis of above, I would rate him outstanding	His relations with superiors and subordinates are very cordial. He is patient with the views of others and takes advice in the correct spirit. He is a welcome member of the team and contributes to its betterment. 1995-96	Beyond doubt	Certified outstanding for the reasons given above	Excellent. An extremely pleasing personality. April 1996 to January 1997	
High	
Outstanding	
Excellent	 
1997-98	Nothing adverse to knowledge	For reasons recorded above, I would grade the officer OUTSTANDING	
Very good	 
1998-99	Nothing adverse to knowledge	For reasons recorded above, I would grade the officer OUTSTANDING	

Very good	 
1999-2000	Nothing adverse reported	
Outstanding	
Very good	 
2000-01	Beyond doubt	Outstanding	The officer maintains excellent relations with superiors, colleagues and subordinates. A teams man. 2001-02	Beyond doubt	Outstanding for the reasons stated in the report	
Excellent	 
2002-03	Beyond doubt	Outstanding for the reasons stated in this report	The officer kept excellent relations at all levels. He has excellent leadership qualities and makes an excellent member of the team. 31.12.04 to 31.03.05	Nothing adverse has come to my notice	Because of his hard work, I grade him outstanding	The officer maintained very good relations with his colleagues, subordinates and seniors. He is a very good team member. 01.04.05 to 09.01.06	Nothing adverse has come to my notice	Because of his hard work, and sincere efforts to improve performance and managerial skills I grade him outstanding	He maintained very good relations with seniors, colleagues as well as subordinates. He is a good team member and worked with good team spirit. 09.01.06 to 22.09.06	Certified and nothing adverse to knowledge	Based on the above, I would rate him OUTSTANDING	He is polite and cordial with superiors, friendly with colleagues and cordial with subordinates. He has all the qualities, that makes him an excellent team leader. While holding the post of Deputy Chairman, Kandla Port Trust, the Chairman while assessing the working of the applicant from 25.9.2006 to 31.3.2007, gave overall gradings as follows: 10.	Earlier Shri Praveen Agarwal had forwarded an anonymous letter along with a CD received by him containing portion of a speech made by Home Minister of Gujarat. It had been mentioned that Shri Manoranjan Kumar had been persuading BJP Legislators and Ministers of Gujarat State to take over the administration of Kandla Port offshore lands. 11.	In their letter dated 18.4.08, Gandhidham Chamber of Commerce and Industry have also requrested for transfer of Shri Manoranjan Kumar from Kandla for the better development of the Port. In addition, 12.	As stated in para 1 above, based on similar complaints only, it was decided at the level of Honble Minister to relieve Shri Manoranjan Kumar from the post of Dy. Chairman. However, he was reinstated as the said order was stayed by the Honble CAT in its interim order dated 8.2.2008. Now in its order dated 11.7.08 the Honble CAT, in a self contained judgement covering all the related issues, has upheld the Govts right to take appropriate measures as situations might justify. Also in an identical court case in 1993 filed by Shri D. K. Rao, the then Dy. Chairman, VPT, the Andhra Pradesh High Court had held that pre-mature termination of deputation was not by way of punishment and that deputation was at the pleasure of Central Govt. under Section 7(1) of the Major Port Trusts Act. In other words, the Principal Bench of CAT in the case filed by Shri Manoranjan Kumar and Honble High Court of AP in the case filed by Shri D. K. Rao have endorsed the authority of the Central Govt. as per the provisions of MPT Act in the matter of continuance or otherwise of deputation of an officer as Dy. Chairman in a Port. As per Section 7 of the Major Port Trusts Act the Chairman and Dy. Chairman shall hold office during the pleasure of the Central Govt. 13.	To sum up, from the foregoing facts it is clear that the acts of omission and commission on the part of Shri Manoranjan Kumar, while functioning as Dy. Chairman have been detrimental to the development/growth of Kandla Port. This Port was occupying number 1 position in 2006-07 in terms of Cargo Handling and now has slipped down. The style of functioning of Shri Manoranjan Kumar might have a negative and demoralizing effect on the officers and employees of the port. This is also reflected in their lower output in various port operations. The Chairman has categorically stated that the Dy. Chairmans contribution to the port has been nil and in fact his presence in the port is having an adverse effect to the port. 14.	This being the position, the Govt. may consider repatriating him to his parent department by prematurely reverting him from the deputation in pubic interest. This being an action on administrative exigencies, in no way should be considered as a punitive action against the officer. The pleasure of the govt. as envisaged under Section 7 of the Major Port Trusts Act may be withdrawn so that he can be repatriated to his parent cadre. 15.	In the event his repatriation is ordered, it may also be considered whether an officer of the Department, preferably DS(PO) may be asked to take the charge of the post of Dy. Chairman and Chief Vigilance Officer, KPT, as additional charge, till regular arrangements are made. This would also ensure immediate implementation of our orders, if issued. Submitted for orders please.

On the same day, when the note was put up to Dir. (PHRD), he recorded as follows: Copies of the orders aforesaid have been placed on records. Despite divesting the applicant of almost all the duties that he had to statutorily perform as Deputy Chairman, and despite the stay granted by this Tribunal, the applicant was virtually made to look after only the safety and security matters of the port. In the circumstances aforesaid, the applicant filed a contempt petition before this Tribunal. He simultaneously filed a misc. application bearing MA No.449/2008 in the OA aforesaid for quashing orders dated 22.2.2008 and 23.2.2008 issued by the third respondent, and for restraining the respondents from obstructing/interfering with the exercise of powers and performance of functions by the applicant as Deputy Chairman and CVO, KPT. Vide order dated 14.3.2008, the Bench of this Tribunal comprising Members other than those who had stayed operation of order dated 31.1.2008, vide orders dated 7.2.2008, stayed the operation of orders passed by Chairman, KPT dated 22.2.2008 and 23.2.2008. The Tribunal in consideration of rival contentions of the learned counsel representing the parties, passed order dated 14.3.2008, operative part whereof reads as follows: