1) This appeal is filed by the Appellant/Original Complainant against the
order dtd.05/01/2017 passed by the Ld.District Forum by which the consumer
complaint filed by the Complainant was dismissed. 2) As per Complainant, facts of the case are as follows - Complainant's husband had opened a Saving Bank Account (NRE-Non-
Resident) with Opponent-Respondent herein- and Complainant was joint
account holder of the said account. As per compulsory requirement of
Opponent, Complainant's husband provided his e-mail ID for A/17/388 2 communications and in course of banking, Complainant's husband used to
receive e-mails from Opponent bank in respect of investments and other
communications like providing KYC etc. On 29/11/2015, Complainant's
husband received email to update his KYC details concerning VerySigned
secured system and it was intimated in the said mail that if the details were
not provided, internet banking facility, Debit Card and ATM Card will be
deactivated. When Complainant's husband received emails repeatedly and at
that time, he was in Kinshasa, Republic of Democratic of Cango.
Complainant's husband immediately forwarded email to Relationship
Manager and Branch Manager of the Bank to verify the same but no reply
was received from Opponent. Complainant's husband again received email
similar to previous emails and as he did not find anything phishy in it, he
clicked on the link provided in email, which took him to the ICICI Bank net
banking portal prompting him to enter User ID and Password which he did
and checked the transactions performed by him 10 minutes earlier to ensure
that he was on the right portal. After being so assured, he decided to go
ahead with the option to update the account with card details, account
number, card grid values and email ID and updated the same. 3) On 30/11/2015 at 3.36 a.m. (Kinshasa Time (GMT + 1), 8.00 a.m. IST),
the Complainant's husband received SMS alert on his overseas registered
mobile number that four transactions were made from his account for a total
amount of Rs.7,11,000/- which shocked him as the same was not done by
him. Complainant's husband therefore tried to log in his account in order to
check the details of transactions but was not able to open the account as the
User ID/name and Password were changed. He therefore, called ICICI Bank
NIR Customer Care from his registered mobile number and asked them to
disable his debit card and net banking facility and informed about the above-
said four fraudulent transactions and changed User ID and Password as the
same were neither done by him nor his wife. He also informed the bank from A/17/388 3 his email address on the very day with request to reimburse the money.
Opponent replied saying that the said complaint was registered and
Complainants will be updated requesting them to wait for Opponent to
investigate and process the Complainant's request. Complainant thereafter
wrote to Cyber Cell, Navi Mumbai and Rabale Police Station, MIDC about
the said fraudulent transaction, by email on 01/12/2015 and also informed the
Deputy Commissioner of Police, Cyber Cell, Navi Mumbai by email on
02/12/2015 alongwith the information provided by the Opponent that all the
funds have been transferred to accounts in a bank in India through online
payment in the name of four beneficiaries without stating their bank details.
Complainant got the FIR registered on 02/12/2015 by Rabale Police Station. 4) As there was no positive response from the bank, Complainant lodged
complaint with Banking Ombudsman on 28/12/2015 which was replied on
23/02/2016 stating that as per Banks reply on 18/01/2016, the internet
banking in respect of the said account was logged in from Nigeria and there
were four different beneficiary accountholders. It was also mentioned in the
said reply that Complainant's husband had compromised his login credentials
in an unknown phishing link received by him and Opponent was unable to
contact the beneficiaries and the funds were already withdrawn. The
Ombudsman therefore closed Complainant's complaint. As per Complainant,
it was legitimate expectation of Complainant, being customer of the bank,
that on lodging complaint immediately within two hours from the said
fraudulent transfer, withdrawal from accounts of said four beneficiaries being
the accountholders in opponent bank should have been stopped and their
accounts should have been freezed immediately but Opponent failed to do so.
Complainant also submitted that information was available with the bank
regarding the account to whom the money had been transferred and the same
should have been shared by Opponent bank with police and Complainant. As
there was no relief from Opponent Bank, Complainant filed the subject A/17/388 4 complaint before the Ld.District Forum praying for direction to Opponent to
reimburse the said amount of Rs.7,11,000/- with interest @ 18% p.a. from
30/11/2015 till realization and for compensation of Rs.5,00,000/- towards
mental agony and monetary loss and for Rs.1,00,000/- towards cost of the
complaint. 5) On perusal of the complaint, the Ld.District Forum found that
Complainant's husband on receiving the said mail allegedly from Opponent
bank, clicked the link mentioned therein and furnished details about the User
ID and Password and other details because of which the fraudster carried out
the fraudulent transactions and also prevented Complainant from logging into
his account by changing User ID and Password of the said account.
Ld.District Forum had observed that Complainant (Complainant's husband in
fact) had not been diligent in his operations related to banking and had given
his User ID and Password to the fraudster/hacker on his own. It is also
observed by the Ld.District Forum that Opponent bank always reminded its
customers never to share User ID and Password of their banks account with
anyone in order to prevent any unauthorized access to bank accounts. The
Ld.District Forum therefore, held that Complainant had not taken due care in
handling details of his bank account and had given up protection of his own
bank account by giving User ID and Password himself to fraudster and
therefore Opponent cannot be blamed for wrong act done by Complainant
himself. Ld.Distirct Forum therefore, found that the complaint was not
maintainable before it and was liable to be dismissed. Ld.District Forum
therefore passed the impugned order, which is subject matter of this appeal. 6) Appellant filed this appeal on the grounds that the Ld.District Forum
failed to appreciate that the responsibility to maintain the confidentiality of
sensitive details of customers and to protect the same from being divulged to
third parties fully lies with the bank and that the cyber security of Opponent
is apparently week/vulnerable rendering the webpage of Opponent feeble for A/17/388 5 unethical hacking activities. Appellant also submitted that Ld.District Forum
failed to appreciate that sensitive information of customers is confided with
the bank in its capacity as custodian of customer's money to safeguard the
same and that the services of the Opponent were deficient in as much as
sensitive/confidential details of the said account of the appellant were leaked
to the hackers and also that Opponent failed to bring the four accounts under
debit freeze, into which Complainant's money was transferred by the said
fraudulent transfers. It is another ground of appellant that the Ld.District
Forum failed to appreciate that Opponent failed to conduct a diligent enquiry
with the hackers, who were holding their respective accounts with Opponent
itself, after receiving complaint from Complainant and that the said
fraudulently transferred amount could have been reversed to appellant's
account by Opponent. It is also a ground of Appellant that Ld.District Forum
failed to appreciate that the cyber crime carried out to effect the said
fraudulent transactions could not have been carried out without connivance of
Opponent and that the web link provided in the phishing email when browsed
directed appellant to the authentic webpage of Opponent and that Opponent
was duty bound to prevent unauthorized access to their webpage through
phishing emails sent by unethical hackers. Appellant further submitted that
Ld.District Forum failed to appreciate that the appellant (appellant's husband
in fact) unknowingly updated his KYC details in his bonafide effort to keep
his account operational. The appellant also submitted that Ld.District Forum
failed to assess the liability of Opponent in consonance with zero liability
clause in RBI circular on consumer protection and that appellant had
promptly informed the Opponent regarding the fraudulent transaction within
the time frame mentioned in the said RBI circular. The appellant therefore
prayed for setting aside the impugned order and to allow the complaint
granting reliefs prayed for in complaint alongwith cost of the appeal. 7) Perused record. Heard arguments on behalf of the parties. 8) It is an admitted fact that husband of the Appellant/Complainant himself
had provided information relating to his account alongwith User ID/Name
and Password by opening the link provided in the said email received by him
as per instructions in the said mail. The Ld.District Forum therefore held that
the Complainant was responsible for disclosing his own confidential
information relating to his bank account including his User ID and Password
and that Complainant had not taken due care in handling details of his bank
account and had given up his own protection in respect of his bank account
by providing User ID and Password to fraudster. Ld.District Forum therefore
held that Opponent cannot be blamed for wrong act done by Complainant
himself and therefore, the complaint was not maintainable and was liable to
be dismissed. The Ld.District Forum therefore, dismissed the complaint.
Appellant had filed one RBI circular on record. In our opinion, the
Ld.District Forum had erroneously come to above conclusion on its own and
from the complaint only that Complainant (Complainant's husband in fact)
himself was responsible for the said fraudulent transactions because of his
own above-said actions without asking for any say or written statement from
Opponent and without giving any opportunity to parties to adduce evidence,
submit written arguments and advance oral arguments. There is nothing on
record to show that except for the above said observation of Ld.District
Forum, the Ld.District Forum had applied its mind to the merits of the case
by appreciating evidence at least on the basis of documents before it. The
Ld.District Forum passed the impugned order without going ahead with the
stages of written statement of Opponent, affidavits of evidence by parties and
without giving opportunity to parties to submit written arguments and to
advance oral arguments. We therefore hold that the Ld.District Forum had
passed the impugned order at the stage which was as good as stage of
"admission itself" without going ahead with other stages of written statement,
evidence and arguments as provided under the Consumer Protection Act as
correctly pointed out on behalf of Appellant. We therefore, find that the A/17/388 7 conclusion arrived at, by the Ld.District Forum on its own, without going
ahead with the abovementioned stages of proceedings as provided in the Consumer Protection Act , is a pre-mature decision and cannot be upheld.
Advocate for Respondent had cited judgment of Hon'ble National
Commission in Revision Petition No.RP/2139 of 2013. We are of opinion
that the same can be considered at the stage of final order after going through
the above mentioned stages provided in the Consumer Protection Act by the
Ld.District Forum. 9) In view of the above discussion, we find that the impugned order does
not sustain and is liable to be set aside. We make it clear that, we have not
made any remark or not given any finding or opinion in respect of merits of
the case and find it proper to remand the matter back to the Ld.District Forum
for deciding the case on merits after giving opportunity to parties to make
their pleadings, to adduce evidence, written arguments and final hearing. We
therefore, pass the following order- (ii) The order of the Ld.District Forum, dtd.05/01/2017 in
 Consumer Complaint No.439 of 2016 is hereby set aside. (iii) The consumer dispute is remanded back to the Ld.District
 Forum to decide it afresh on merits after giving opportunity to
 both parties to make pleadings, to adduce evidence, to submit
 written arguments and to advance oral arguments as per
 provisions of Consumer Protection Act, 1986 .