This is first bail application under section 438 of Cr.P.C.
  The   applicant   is   apprehending   his   arrest   in   connection   with 
Crime No.358/2014 registered at Police Station Aron District Guna, for 
the offences punishable under Sections 452 , 294 , 323 , 336 , 342 , 506 with 
34 of IPC . As   per   prosecution   story,   complainant   Smt.   Sadhana 
Raghuvanshi   lodged   a   report   at   Police   Station   Aron   on   30.07.2014 
alleging therein that the applicant/accused along with his wife armed 
with lathi entered in her house and committed marpeet with her and 
her grandfather. On that basis, the aforesaid crime has been registered 
against the applicant/accused. Learned   counsel   for   the   applicant   submits   that   applicant   has 
been falsely implicated in this case. He has not committed any offence. 
There is no direct or indirect evidence available on record against the 
present applicant for commission of aforesaid alleged offence. There is 
no   likelihood   of   his   absconsion   and   tampering   the   prosecution 
evidence. . In such premise,  prayed for anticipatory bail. The   prayer   is   opposed   by   learned   Public   Prosecutor   for   the 
respondent/State. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case,  but without 
expressing any view on the merits of the case, this application is allowed 
and it is directed that in the event of arrest, applicant shall be released 
on anticipatory  bail  on his furnishing  a personal  bond in the sum of 
 M.Cr.C.No.10865/2014                   (Vishwa Veer Singh  Vs. State of M.P.)

 Rs.50,000/­   (Rs.   Fifty   Thousand   Only)   with   a   surety   bond   in   the   like 
 amount   to   the   satisfaction   of   Arresting   officer/competent   Court.   The 
 applicant   shall   make   himself   available   for   interrogation   by   a   police 
 officer as and when required and he will co­operate in the investigation. 
 He   shall   further   abide   by   the   other   conditions   enumerated   in   sub­
 section (2) of Section 438 of Cr.P.C. This order shall remain operative for a period of sixty days and 
 during   this   period   the   applicant   is   free   to   move   the   regular   bail 
 application before the concerned Court. C.C. as per rules. (Sushil Kumar Gupta )
        Judge
Ak/-