Heard learned senior counsel Mr. Yogesh Lakhani with
learned advocate Mr. Dhruvik K. Patel for the applicant. Learned
senior counsel has pointed out that there is typographical or
clerical error in the para 7.(d) of the order dated 28.05.2014.
Considering the fact that he has already submitted that considering
the services of the petitioner condition regarding not to leave State
of Gujarat would create hurdle in his services. In view of such fact, speaking to minutes is allowed to the
extent that para 7.(d) is to be altered and modified so as to read
that "(d) not to leave India without prior permission of the Sessions
Judge concerned;" 5. As against that learned APP has pointed out certain contentions
from the documents on record and submitted that it was duty of the
present petitioner to inspect the on going Shukan Sky project and
transaction of the builder before disbursement of loan amount and
that proceeds of the project i.e. all the booking transactions was to be
routed through the escrow account maintained with IFB Branch,
Ahmedabad, which is not done. It is also submitted that the lender's
independent engineer (LIE) will be appointed to oversee the overall
implementation of the project and will submit certificate on monthly
basis towards physical progress of the project and limit will be
disbursed on the basis of the progress report of the LIE. It is also
further submitted that title search report is to be obtained from
Bank's empanelled advocate, stating therein that the title of land is
clean, unencumbered and marketable and a valid equitable mortgage
can be created. Therefore, it is submitted that applicant has to verify
the conditions as aforesaid and as fixed in the sanction order before Page 2 of 4 4 of 6
 R/CR.MA/7354/2014 ORDER

disbursement of the amount and therefore, applicant is also equally
responsible for the offences committed by the builder and its
partners, when loan amount was disbursed in contravention of terms
and conditions of sanction order. 6. However, learned senior counsel Mr.Nanavaty appearing for
respondent No.2 has confirmed that bank has verified all transactions
and they do not suffer from any irregularity by any bank officers
including present applicant. It is further submitted that in fact
investigating agency is unnecessary harassing the bank officers when
they are unable to chase and arrest the real culprit though FIR is
dated 25.04.2014. Since more than a month has passed and if the
investigating agency is not able to arrest partners of the builder firm
against whom there are serious charges, there is some substance in
the submission by the learned senior counsel Mr.Nanavaty. 7. I have perused the available record and documents relied upon
by the learned A.P.P. from the investigation papers. Discussion and
reference of all documents and all facts would not be advisable at this
stage. However, prima facie it seems that even if there is little role of
the present applicant in the alleged offence, at present there is no
necessity of custody of the petitioner. Therefore, relying upon Sanjay
Chandra 's case (Supra), it would be appropriate allow the petition.
Thereby petitioner is ordered to be released on bail in connection
with FIR being C.R.No. I - 98/14 registered with Police Station, Sector
7, Gandhinagar, on his executing a personal bond of Rs.2,00,000/-
(Rupees Two Lacs only) with one surety of the like amount to the
satisfaction of the learned Trial Court and subject to the conditions
that he shall; [a] not take undue advantage of his liberty or misuse his
 liberty; on alternate Monday for initial three months and
 thereafter, on first Monday of every English calendar
 month, for a period of six months, between 10:00 a.m.
 and 2:00 p.m.; [f] furnish latest address of his residence to the
 Investigating Officer and also to the Court at the time
 of execution of the bond and shall not change the
 residence without prior permission of this Court; 8. The Authorities will release the applicant only if the applicant is
not required in connection with any other offence for the time being.
If breach of any of the above conditions is committed, learned Judge
concerned will be free to issue warrant or take appropriate action in
the matter. Bail bond to be executed before the learned Lower Court
having jurisdiction to try the case. Any observation made in this order
is only for considering the application for bail. Rule is made absolute
to the aforesaid extent. Direct service is permitted. (S.G.SHAH, J.)

dharmendra Page 4 of 4 6 of 6