Crl.M.A. 8913/2017 (Exemption) 1. Exemption allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 2. Application stands disposed of. Crl.M.A. 8912/2017 (delay) 3. Although we do not find any sufficient ground to condone delay, but
 since we have heard the leave to appeal on merits, delay of 172 days in
 filing the leave to appeal is condoned. 4. Application stands disposed of. 5. The present leave to appeal has been filed by the State under Section
 378 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (in short ' Cr.P.C .')
 seeking leave to appeal against the impugned judgment dated
 27.08.2016 passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge in Crl. L.P. 324/2017 Page 1 of 7 Sessions Case no.17/15, FIR No.202/12, Police Station Dwarka
 South, under Sections 498A / 304B / 34 of the Indian Penal Code (in
 short the ' IPC '). 6. The case of the prosecution is that on 15.09.2012, an information was
 received from the respondent Devender Singh that his wife had
 committed suicide, which was recorded vide DD No.30, ASI Satbir
 Singh reached at the place of incident i.e. Flat No. B-302, Rudra
 Apartments, Plot No. 12, Sector-6, Dwarka and found that the
 respondents Devender Singh, Vimla Devi and Satveer Singh were
 present and the dead body of the deceased Divya was lying on the
 double bed in her bedroom along with a chunni. On the inspection of
 the dead body, he noticed some marks on the neck of the deceased.
 Crime team was called which took photographs and inspected the
 spot. The chunni was seized and the dead body of the deceased was
 shifted to the mortuary of DDU Hospital. 7. On 16.09.2012, the statements of the Jai Inder Singh (PW2) and
 Gaurav (PW3), the father and brother of the deceased respectively
 were recorded and a case under Sections 498A / 304B / 34 of IPC was
 registered at Police Station Dwarka South. 8. To bring home the guilt of the respondents, the prosecution has
 examined 25 witnesses in all. No evidence was produced by the
 respondents in their defence. Statements of the respondents were
 recorded under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C wherein it was stated that
 they have been falsely implicated in the present case. 9. Mr. Rajat Katyal, learned counsel for the State submits that the
 learned Trial Court has failed to take into consideration that PW-2 Jai
 Inder Singh and PW-3 Gaurav have supported the case of the Crl. L.P. 324/2017 Page 2 of 7 prosecution in their examination-in-chief. Counsel further submits
 that the learned Trial Court has given undue weightage on the
 witnesses of the prosecution, who turned hostile after December 13,
 whereas all the statements made by them prior to December 13 largely
 supported the case of the prosecution. Counsel submits that the
 learned Trial Court failed to appreciate that in matters of offence
 arising out of Section 304B IPC, the presumption is against the
 accused persons and the burden of proof would shift on the accused
 (respondents) herein. Counsel contends that the defence raised by the
 respondents in their statements under Section 313 Cr.P.C. that the
 deceased used to remain under depression as her sister-in-law was not
 taking care of her mother, who had been suffering from paralysis and
 had committed suicide for this reason, cannot be accepted as the
 defence did not chose to lead any evidence on this aspect of the
 matter. 10. We have heard the learned counsel for the State and examined the
 judgment passed by the learned Trial Court and also examined the
 testimonies of various witnesses, copies of which have been placed on
 record by the counsel for the State. The relevant para 7 of the
 impugned judgment rendered by the Trial Court reads as under: 11. The deceased was married to respondent no.1 on 01.05.2011. She
 died on 15.09.2012, within seven years of her marriage. The learned
 Trial Court has analysed the testimonies of all the witnesses. The star
 witnesses in this case are the father and brother of the deceased, being
 PWs 2 and 3 respectively. The learned Trial Court has taken into
 account the fact that the star witnesses have not supported the case of
 the prosecution and have testified that the police had obtained their
 signatures on blank papers as also their deposition in examination-in-
 chief was under the influence of the investigating agency. A
 categorical assertion was made that the respondents never demanded
 any car, gift or cash from them, neither the deceased ever told them
 about any demand of dowry or harassment at the hands of the
 respondents. The learned Trial Court has also taken into account the
 testimonies of Shri Rajender Singh Chhikara (PW3) and Shri
 Dharambir Singh (PW8). Both the aforesaid witnesses had testified
 that they had participated in a meeting which was held between the
 two families on account of the deceased being harassed by her in-laws
 and whether demand of car, gold and bangles were made. However,
 in Court both the aforesaid witnesses did not support the case of the
 prosecution and they had denied of any such meeting being held or
 that they were told by the family members of the deceased that the in-
 laws of the deceased used to subject her to cruelty or there was any
 demand of money. 12. In the case of Kallu alias Masih and Ors. v. State of M.P. reported at
 (2006) 10 SCC 313, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in para 8 held as
 under: 13. The Hon'ble Supreme Court culled out five general principles for
 deciding an appeal against an order of acquittal in the case of Chandrappa and Ors. v. State of Karnataka reported at (2007) 4
 SCC 415, which are as under: 14. Keeping in view the aforesaid enunciation of the legal principles and
 on scrutiny of the evidence available on record, we find no infirmity
 in the view taken by the Trial Court. In our view, the respondents have
 been righty acquitted by the Trial Court in the absence of any
 incriminating evidence on record. We find no grounds to entertain this
 leave to appeal. The same is accordingly dismissed. G. S. SISTANI, J. REKHA PALLI, J. MAY 25, 2017
//pst Crl. L.P. 324/2017 Page 7 of 7