1. The Applicant has filed this Application under Section 439 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure for enlarging the Applicant on Regular Bail in
connection with FIR being C.R. No. 11186001230770/2023 registered with
Gir-Gadhdha Police Station, Gir-Somnath 2. Heard learned Advocate for the Applicant and learned APP for the
Respondent - State. Rule. Learned APP waives service of notice of Rule on behalf of the
Respondent - State. 3. Learned Advocate for the Applicant has submitted that the investigation
is over and chargesheet is filed. He has further submitted that the Applicant
has good reputation in the society and no useful purpose would be served by
keeping the applicant in jail for indefinite period. It is further contended that
the applicant is ready and willing to abide by all the conditions that may be
imposed by this Court if released on bail. 4. Per contra, learned APP has vehemently opposed the present application
for grant of regular bail inter alia contending that the Applicant was working as
Chairman of the Society, which was granting financial assistance and financial
advances to the farmers. The present Applicant along with the other co-
accused had, though recovered the amount lent by the Society to the farmers
from the farmers concerned and had issued No Dues Certificates for the same,
had not deposited the said amount recovered from the farmers, in the Society
and, subsequently in the bank account of the Society. He also submitted that
the Applicant himself had obtained loan of Rs.3 lacs which had not been repaid
by him and No Dues Certificate has been obtained through illegal means.
Learned APP has therefore submitted that looking to the nature of offence, this
Court may not exercise the discretion in favour of the applicant and the
Application may be dismissed. 5. Heard learned Advocates for the parties and perused the record. The
investigation is over and charge sheet is filed. As per the case of the
prosecution, the role attributed to the Applicant is to the effect that while
working as Chairman of the Society he had sanctioned loan to various farmers.
The said amount of loan had been repaid by the concerned farmers to the
present Applicant and the present Applicant along with the other co-accused
had also issued No Dues Certificate. However, after receipt of the amount
from the farmers concerned, the Applicant had not deposited the said amount
with the Society and thus siphoned away amount of Rs.33 Lacs and odd.
Considering the fact that the investigation is over and charge sheet is also filed,
the Application deserves consideration. This court has also considered the
following aspects: (b) That the learned Advocate for the Applicant has submitted that the
Applicant Accused is not likely to flee away. (c) That the Applicant is in custody since 7.10.2023. (d) The law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Sanjay
Chandra v. C.B.I. Reported in (2012) 1 SCC 40. 6. Having heard the learned Advocates for the parties and perusing the
record produced in this case as well as taking into consideration the facts of the
case, nature of allegations, gravity of accusation, availability of the Applicant
Accused at the time of Trial etc. and the role attributed to the present Applicant
accused, the present Application deserves to be allowed and accordingly stands
allowed. This Court has also gone through the FIR and police papers and also
the earlier order passed by the learned Sessions Court where the learned
Sessions Judge has disallowed the bail Application at initial stage. The
Applicant Accused is ordered to be released on bail in connection with the
aforesaid FIR on executing a personal bond of Rs.10,000/- with one surety of
the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial Court, subject to the following
conditions that he shall: 7. Bail bond to be executed before the Trial Court having jurisdiction to try
the case. It would be open for the Trial Court concerned to give time to furnish
the solvency certificate if prayed for. 8. If breach of any of the above conditions is committed, the Trial Court
concerned will be free to issue warrant or take appropriate action according to
law. The Authorities will release the Applicant forthwith only if the Applicant
is not required in connection with any other offence for the time being. 9. At the trial, the concerned trial Court shall not be influenced by the
prima facie observations made by this Court in the present order. 10. Rule is made absolute. Direct service permitted. (M. R. MENGDEY,J)
J.N.W / 37 Page 4 of 4 Downloaded on : Wed Feb 21 20:43:54 IST 2024