4) Sri Rathin Samajpati,
 Dr. Harendra Mukherjee Road,
 New Barakpore, Kolkata - 700131. 5) Sri Nitish Debo Goswami,
 Sr. Manager,
 Guwahati Main Branch,
 Fancy Bazar, Guwahati-I.

 ......... Proforma Responents. BEFORE
 HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE N. CHAUDHURY

 For the Petitioner : Mr. M. Dutta, Advocate. For the Respondent : Mr. S.S. Dey, Advocate. In this application under Article 227 of the
Constitution of India, the petitioner, Bank of Baroda, has
questioned legality and correctness of order dated
24.08.2012 passed by the learned Civil Judge, Tinsukia,
in Title Suit No. 24 of 2011. By that order the learned
trial court rejected application filed by the respondents
under Order VII Rule 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure . [2] The opposite parties No.1 & 2, as plaintiffs,
instituted Title Suit No. 24 of 2011 praying for
declaration, inter alia, that creation of guarantee
document dated 28.01.2011 and equitable mortgage
relating to loan account of M/s. ARK Group is a
fraudulent act and that it is neither binding on the
plaintiffs nor is the defendant No.1 entitled to enforce the
same against the plaintiffs towards financial aid granted
to M/s ARK Group. The case of the plaintiffs in brief is
that in the year 2009 the plaintiffs along with defendant
No.2 decided to establish a business of Restaurant-cum-
Bar at Tinsukia. Pursuant to this, they purchased a plot
of land measuring 1279.25 sq. ft. at A.T. Road, Tinsukia CRP No.187 of 2013 Page 2 of 17 vide Registered Sale deed No. 1790 of 2009 at
consideration of Rs.2,50,000/-. Then the defendant No.2
put forward a proposal to the plaintiffs that he would
arrange funds by taking financial assistance from the
defendant No.1, Bank of Baroda, as the defendants No.3
& 4 who are the officers of the said bank at Tinsukia
Branch are in good relation with him. The plaintiffs
agreed in good faith. In the month of January, 2010 the
defendant No.2 informed the plaintiffs that a sum of
Rs.28,00,000/-had been sanctioned in favour of them i.e.
the plaintiffs and the defendant No.2 by Tinsukia Branch
of the defendant No.1 and that they were required to
create equitable mortgage of the premises purchased by
them for executing a guarantee document. Accordingly,
plaintiffs having accepted the proposal of defendant No.2
at face value and having placed implicit confidence in
him, met at defendant No.4 who asked the plaintiffs and
defendant No.2 to come to the Bank at night on
20.01.2010. The plaintiffs complied with the instructions
and thereafter, on being asked by defendant No.4 they
signed some papers which were presented before them by
the defendant No.4. On being specifically asked, the
defendant No.4 replied that plaintiffs and defendant No.2
have been sanctioned a sum of Rs.28,00,000/- which
would be disbursed within a short period of time. But
when even after lapse of substantial period of time, they
did not receive any money, the plaintiffs made querries to
defendant No.2 as well as defendant No.3 & 4 who did
not furnish any information to the plaintiffs. At that
stage, the plaintiffs and the defendant No.2 empowered
the plaintiff No.1 to establish and run the business with
his own money. Accordingly, the plaintiff No.1 CRP No.187 of 2013 Page 3 of 17 established a Restaurant-cum-Bar and started business
since March 2010 with his own finance. In the month of
December, 2010 the plaintiff No.1 obtained "IMFL Bar
ON" licence from the Government of Assam and the bar
was commissioned. In the mean time, on 10.08.2010
they received a letter from defendant No.1 issued on
05.08.2010 and addressed to one M/s ARK Group which
revealed that a loan limit of Rs.28,00,000/- was
sanctioned by Tinsukia Branch of the defendant No.1 in
favour of M/s. ARK Group. Smelling foul play of the
defendant No.2, the plaintiffs made enquiry with the
defendant No.2 about the existence and status of M/s.
ARK Group and as to procurement and utilisation of loan
amount of Rs.28,00,000/-. The defendant No.2 refused to
disclose the details and rather became furious. He
assaulted plaintiffs and hence, finding no other
alternative, plaintiffs approached defendants No. 3 & 4,
who also did not disclose any information. Situated thus,
plaintiffs took recourse to the provision of Right to
Information Act , whereupon the defendants No. 1, 2 & 3
parted with information disclosing that loan of
Rs.28,00,000/- was sanctioned to the defendant No.2 as
proprietor of M/s. ARK Group and that plaintiffs were
shown as guarantor of the loan. According to the
plaintiffs, the officials of the Tinsukia Branch of the
defendant No.1, more particularly, the defendant No.3 &
4 being in collusion with defendant No.2, fraudulently
obtained signatures of the plaintiffs on the guarantee
document and created equitable mortgage of the
premises, with a pretext to sanction loan in favour of the
plaintiffs and the defendant No.2 for establishment of
Restaurant-cum-Bar over the aforesaid premises but the CRP No.187 of 2013 Page 4 of 17 sanctioning authority of the defendant No.1 ultimately
sanctioned entire loan in the name of M/s. AKR Group of
which defendant No.2 is the sole proprietor. The plaintiffs
also alleged that the defendant No.3 & 4 acted in
collusion with the defendant No.2 and his associates and
committed a serious fraud to misappropriate and
embezzle public money. In support of the allegations, the
plaintiffs furnished material particulars in detail in
subparagraphs A, B, C, D & E of paragraph 9 of the
plaint as required under the provision of Order VI Rule 4
of the Code of Civil Procedure . Thus, having stated
material facts and particulars in support of the
allegations, the plaintiffs approached the learned Civil
Court praying for adjudication that the fraud has been
perpetrated on them by the defendants No.1, 2, 3 & 4 in
collusion with each other and thereby, the plaintiffs have
been wrongly shown as guarantor of defendant No.2. [3] Upon receipt of the summons, the defendant No.1
submitted written statement denying the allegation of
fraud and also filed an application under Order VII Rule
11 of the Code of Civil Procedure . The substance of the
objection raised by defendant No.1 is that the plaintiffs
did not file the suit immediately after the so called fraud
was noticed. Plaintiffs have filed the suit only after notice
under Section 13 of the SARFAESI Act, 2002, was issued
by the bank and so the suit is barred under Section 34 of
the same Act. [4] Learned Court heard both sides at length and
thereupon, passed order on 24.08.2012 rejecting the
application. The learned Court held that since the CRP No.187 of 2013 Page 5 of 17 plaintiffs have come forward with a specific case of fraud
of the defendants and has sought declaratory relief on
the basis of specific averments made in the body of the
plaint, the jurisdiction of the Civil Court is not ousted
under Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act, 2002. In so doing
the learned Court placed reliance of the case of Mardia
Chemicals Limited vs. Union of India reported in (2004) 4
SCC 311. This order rejecting the application under Order VII Rule 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure has been
brought under challenge in the present revision petition. [5] Before venturing to see as to whether impugned
order is required to be revised or interfered with under
supervisory jurisdiction of this court, it is necessary to
have a look at the law of Order VII Rule 11 of the Civil
Procedure Code. By now it is almost established that
once a suit is instituted it normally drags on for
considerably long period of time to reach the stage of
finality. Even passing of judgment and decree in a suit is
not the last milestone in journey to derive fruit of
litigation. There is appeal, second appeal or revision etc.
followed by execution proceedings. In the process not
only the litigants are involved in recurring expenditures
but the subject matter of the dispute also gets stuck.
Long and protracted proceeding in a suit is one of the
reasons for which civil litigations have earned disrepute.
The law makers, therefore, devised a mechanism so that
absurd, unnecessary or vexatious litigations can be shot
down at the threshold by rejecting the plaint. Order VII
Rule 1 is such a law which has vested power with Court
to scuttle a vexatious proceeding. Order VII Rule 1
initially had only four clauses specifying as to when a CRP No.187 of 2013 Page 6 of 17 plaint could be rejected. By Section 17 of the CPC
Amendment Act, 1999 an additional clause being clause (e) was added providing that if plaintiff does not file plaint
in duplicate, a plaint shall be rejected. Then clause (f) of
this rule was incorporated vide Section 8 of the CPC
Amendment of 2002 (Act 22 of 2002), whereby it has
been provided that if plaintiff fails to comply with
requirements of Order VII Rule 9, the plaint is liable to be
rejected. Rule 9 requires a plaintiff to take steps within
seven days from the date of order directing service of
summons under Rule 9 of Order V by presenting as
many copies of plaint as the number of defendants on
whom such service is ordered by the Court. However, in
view of the spirit of pre-existing proviso to this rule
incorporated by CPC Amendment Act 104 0f 1976 , the
Court before rejecting a plaint under Rule 11(e) of Order
VII is required to give opportunity to the plaintiff for
making amend for the lapse. However, even after getting
opportunity, the plaintiff does not remove the defect, in
that event Court has to reject the plaint. [6] The original provisions warranting rejection of
plaint were prescribed under Clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d)
of Rule 11 of Order VII. Rule 11(a) provides that where
plaint does not disclose a cause of action, the plaint shall
be rejected. In so doing court is required to peruse the
plaint in entirety and to find whether on a liberal view of
the matter, the material facts disclosed in a plaint
constitute any cause of action. It is not necessary to look
into the averments made in the written statement or any
other materials other than plaint. In the case of Bhau
Ram vs. Janak Singh reported in (2012) 8 SCC 701, the
Hon'ble Supreme Court held that only averments made in CRP No.187 of 2013 Page 7 of 17 the plaint can be looked into while deciding application
for rejection of plaint. (also see, Abdulla vs. Golappa : AIR
1985 SC 577 ). The power to reject plaint under this
clause can be exercised only if the Court arrives at
objective satisfaction that even if all averments made in
plaint are proved, the plaintiff would not be entitled to
any relief. In such case, even before issuance of
summons court can reject a plaint. But at the same time,
mere formal reading of the plaint would not be sufficient.
Reading must be meaningful. (See, Arivandandam vs.
Satyapal : AIR 1977 SC 2421 at p. 2423 ).Plea taken by
the defendant in the written statement is not at all
relevant for the purpose of deciding as to whether plaint
is to be rejected or not. Court cannot presume that any
averment made in the plaint is not likely to be
established in course of trial or that the stand taken by
the plaintiff in its plaint is not factually correct. At the
same time in the case of ITC Limited vs. Debts Recovery
Appellate Tribunal reported in (1998) 2 SCC 70, the
Hon'ble Supreme Court has cautioned that Court has to
ascertain as to whether plaint created an illusion of
cause of action by clever drafting. [7] The clause (b) of rule 11 provides where relief is
undervalued, and plaintiff on being required by the court
to correct the valuation within a time to be fixed by the
Court, fails to do so in that event a plaint can be rejected.
On the other hand, clause (c) operates in cases where
suit correctly valued but plaint is written on paper
insufficiently stamped and on being required to supply
the requisite stamp paper within a time to be fixed by the
Court, fails to do so. Court, however, if satisfied that a
plaintiff was prevented by sufficient cause from not CRP No.187 of 2013 Page 8 of 17 removing the aforesaid defects stated in clause (b) and (c)
of Rule 11, then Court is empowered under proviso to
this rule to extend time for removing defects. Of course, if
even thereafter, the plaintiff does not remove such
defects within permitted period, then plaint has to be
rejected. [8] Rule 11(d) is important in this regard. It
mandates that if the suit appears from the statement in
plaint to be barred by any law, in that event also plaint
shall be rejected. Present case comes under this clause.
According to the defendant, the suit is barred under section 34 of the SARFAESI Act, 2002 which is quoted
below: In view of the discussions made above as to nature
and scope of Rule 11 of Order VII of the Code of Civil
Procedure , let us see whether from statement made in
plaint in the instant case, suit appears to be barred by Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act, 2002. On consideration
of the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
regard to rejection of plaint, it appears that Court has to
read the plaint as a whole to find out as to whether it
discloses a cause of action and whether suit is barred by CRP No.187 of 2013 Page 9 of 17 any law. For this purpose nothing except the averments
made in plaint can be considered. As long as a plaint,
discloses some cause of action which requires a
determination by the Court the mere fact that in the
opinion of the judge the plaintiff may not succeed in the
long run, cannot be a ground for rejection of the plaint. [9] Learned counsel for the petitioner has placed
much reliance in the case of Mardia Chemical (Supra) to
show that the suit is barred under Section 34 Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets
and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (herein
after referred to as SARFAESI Act ). According to the
learned counsel for the petitioner only after steps were
taken under Section 13 of the SARFAESI Act, the
plaintiffs rushed to the Civil Court praying for declaration
that fraud was perpetrated on them and thus, the case is
squarely covered under Mardia Chemicals (Supra).
Learned counsel for the petitioner has placed reliance
that Paragraph-50 of the said judgment wherein the
Hon'ble Supreme Court specifically held that in matter in
respect of which an action may be taken letter on under
the SARFAESAI Act the Civil Court shall have no
jurisdiction to any proceeding thereof. [10] Paragraph-50 of the judgment in Mardia
Chemicals (Supra) is quoted below: [11] According to the learned counsel for the
petitioner, learned trial court did not consider this
paragraph of the judgment in right earnest and thus,
arrived at erroneous finding. The learned counsel for the
petitioner further submits that although there is
allegation of fraud in the plaint but in view of
observations made in Paragraph-50 of the judgment in Mardia Chemicals (Supra) the impugned order passed by
the learned trial court is liable to be set aside and the
plaint is liable to be rejected. [12] Having gone through the full judgment of Mardia
Chemicals (Supra), it appears that the aforesaid judgment
cannot be considered to have imposed a complete ban on
entertaining a Civil Suit in a given case. Even in CRP No.187 of 2013 Page 11 of 17 Paragraph-51 of the said judgment the Hon'ble Supreme
Court has observed that at least to a limited extent,
jurisdiction of the Civil Court can be invoked where the
action of the secured creditor is alleged to be fraudulent
or his claim may be so absurd and untenable that it may
not require any probe whatsoever. To say precisely, a
scope has been indicated to bring an action in the Civil
Court in certain cases. The Paragraph 51 appears to have
illustrated one such scope for entertaining suit by the
Civil Court. Paragraph-51 of the judgment in Mardia
Chemicals (Supra) is quoted below: [13] In the case in hand the plaintiffs have come
forward with a specific case of fraud by the defendant
No.2 in collusion with defendants No. 3 & 4. The
particulars of fraud as required under the provision of Order VI Rule 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure have been
furnished in the plaint. The fraudulent acts described in
the plaint by laying down material particulars make out a
prima facie case of the plaintiffs to go for trial and the
said facts are covered by observations made in
Paragraph-51 of the judgment in the case of Mardia
Chemicals (Supra). The learned counsel for the petitioner
has drawn attention of this Court to a Division Bench
judgment of this Court in the case of 2012 (2) GLT 562
(PANNALAL BHANSALI vs AXIS BANK LTD (M/S) & ORS..) There

is no allegation of fraud in that case. The facts stated in
the same case are entirely different from the facts in the
case in hand. Here is a case where the plaintiffs come
forward with a specific plea of fraud by furnishing
necessary materials particulars. It is established law that
fraud vitiates all and that being the position unless
jurisdiction of the Civil Court under Section 9 for
entertaining a suit is expressly or implied by ousted
objection with such plea cannot be held to be bar merely
because the secured creditor has already proceeded with
some or other action under Section 13 of the SARFAESI
Act, 2002. [14] Section 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
general and wide. It is an enforcement of the maxim Ubi
jus ibi remedium. A litigant thus having a grievance of
civil nature has a right to institute a civil suit in a
competent Civil Court unless its cognizance is either
expressly or impliedly barred. It is established law that
even in the case of express or implied ouster of
jurisdiction of Civil Court, a suit may lie if it is made out
by appropriate pleadings that the fundamental principle
of judicial procedure has been violated and/ or that the
provisions of Act which bars jurisdiction of the Civil
Court have not been strictly followed. The aforesaid view
expressed by the Privy Council in the case of Secretary of
State vs. Mask & Co. AIR 1940 PC 105 has been
subsequently adopted by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
various judgments. A Full Bench Judgment of this court
in Daulat Ram Lakhani vs. State of Assam & others
reported in (1989)1 GLR 131 contains all the previous
references in this regard. Apart from violation of the
principles of natural justice and/ or violation of the
provision of the Act, there is yet another exigency when a
Civil Court alone can have the jurisdiction to decide a lis.
This is the allegation of fraud. [15] Chief Justice Edward Coke of England observed
about three centuries ago "Fraud avoids all judicial acts,
ecclesiastical or temporal." In the case S P. Chengalvarya
Naidu vs. Jagannath reported in (1994)1 SCC 1, Hon'ble
Supreme Court took note of this view and held "A fraud is
an act of deliberate deception with the design of securing
something by taking unfair advantage of another. It is
deception in order to gain by another's loss. It is a CRP No.187 of 2013 Page 14 of 17 cheating intended to get an advantage." What have been
pleaded in the plaint in question are material facts of
such a deliberate act of deception in concert among all
defendants. These allegations ultimately may succeed or
may not succeed. But on the face of the allegations, a
prima facie case has been made out to claim that fraud
has been perpetrated on the plaintiffs. At this stage
neither trial court nor this court exercising revisional
jurisdiction can venture to decide correctness or
otherwise of the statements. That shall be task of the
Civil Court during trial. For limited purpose of decision
within scope of order VII Rule 11 (d) of the Code of Civil
Procedure , the pleaded facts are sufficient to make out
case of prima facie fraud. [16] Now, the next question arises as to whether
such disputed facts on fraud can be decided by Debt
Recovery Tribunal (for short, 'DRT'). Can a DRT pass
decree holding that there is fraud even if best of the
evidence is adduced in support of the specific pleadings
of fraud under order VI rule 4 of the Code of Civil
Procedure ? Can it pass anything more than issuing a
recovery certificate? All these questions came up for
considerations before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of Nahar Industrial Enterprises Ltd. Vs. Hong Kong
and Shanghai banking Corporation reported in (2009) 8
SCC 646 and it is held that DRT is a tribunal constituted
for a specific purpose and no independent issue can be
initiated before it by a debtor. It cannot pass a decree. It
can only pass recovery certificates. In the present case
there shall be oral and documentary evidence by both
sides to prove and disprove respective allegations on CRP No.187 of 2013 Page 15 of 17 fraud going much beyond the books of accounts and
banking notes and this would warrant interrogatories as
well as examinations and cross examinations of
witnesses. Considering the nature, scope, power and
jurisdiction of the DRT as revealed in the discussions of
the case of Nahar Industrial Enterprises Ltd. (supra), it
does not appear that allegations of the nature mentioned
in the plaint under question, can be decided by a DRT. It
can be done by the Civil Court only. [17] In this regard there is yet another aspect. In a
given suit involving arbitration agreement, if defendant
appears and files an application informing the Court that
there is arbitration agreement between the parties in
regard to the subject matter of the suit, in that event
under Section 8 , the Civil Court is duty bound to refer
the parties to arbitration. In a catena of judgments of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court, it was initially held that once an
application is filed under Section 8 of the Arbitration and
Reconciliation Act, 1996, enclosing a copy of the
arbitration agreement then the Civil Court becomes
functus officio and is bound to refer the matter to
arbitration without going for trial of the suit. But in the
case of N. Radha Krishnan Vs. Meastro Engineers
reported in (2010)1 SCC 72, the Hon'ble Supreme Court
placed reliance on earlier judgment in the case of Bubure
vs. Madhav Prabhakar Oak (AIR 1962 SC 406) and held
that in the event of serious allegation of fraud, in regard
to execution of the agreement or the subject matter of the
suit, it is Civil Court which can decide the matter and so
decision of not referring the case to arbitration was
justified. This judgment was passed keeping in view that CRP No.187 of 2013 Page 16 of 17 an Arbitral Tribunal cannot decide complicated questions
of facts involving allegations of fraud. Summarizing the
effects of Nahar Industrial Enterprises Ltd. (Supra) and N.
Radhaskrishnan (Supra) on one hand and that of Mardia
Chemicals (Supra) on the other hand, this Court feels that
the learned trial court has not committed any error in
rejecting prayer for rejection of plaint in the present case.
The suit in question involves allegations of fraud against
the defendants so in the fitness of things these
allegations can be tried by a Civil Court only not by any
tribunal far less a DRT which has no power to pass a
decree but can only issue recovery certificates. [18] The revision petition is devoid of any merit. It is
accordingly dismissed.