16. I find myself in entire and respectful concurrence with the judgment of my Lord, the Chief Justice, and the conclusion, expressed by him, upon the point that arises for our determination in these appeals. Since I Was a party to 1960-2 Mad LJ 116 I may be permitted to add that we were solely concerned in that case with the extent to which the statutory fiction enacted in Section 9-A, Sub-section (9) (a) (i) of the Act could or could not be properly extended, in the context of a case to which the provisions of Section 8 applied, so as to include within the scope of the fiction Explanation 1 to Section 8 as well, with the consequence that the payments were not only deemed to be towards interest, but were to be treated as open payments, appropriated towards the liquidation of the principal itself. This argument was negatived, after a discussion or the limits within which alone a legal fiction could operate, and the degree to which its necessary corollaries should either be assumed or otherwise. The proper construction of the words "rent due" in Section 9-A Sub-section (9) (a) (i) did not arise ,for determination in that case. Even the applicability of the rule of damdupat enacted in Section 8 Sub-section (2) in the context of the operation of the legal fiction of Section 9-A Sub-section (9) (a) (i) was not specifically before us then, as my Lord has observed. It was tacitly assumed that the legal fiction was applicable to rents or lease amounts paid, since the distinction springing from the expression "rent due" with emphasis upon the legal content of the expression "due" was not then in focus. (After the expression of the opinion of the Full Bencn,
the appeals came on for hearing before Ramachandra Iyer
C. J. and Anantanarayanan J. and on 22-10-1962, the
Chief Justice for the Court delivered the Judgment by which
he held that the mortgages in the appeals, though apparently in the form of usufructuary mortgages, were in
substance anomalous mortgages. His Lordship, therefore,
passed preliminary decrees for sale in both the appeals.)