Registration of FIR in Crime No.179/2022 at South

East CEN Crime Police Station for offence punishable under Sections 66(C) , 66(D) and 72(A) of the Information

Technology Act, 2000, is called in question in this petition,

preferred under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. 2. The first informant by name Pamidimukkala

Nagaraja, lodged a complaint with the respondent police

alleging that the complainant availed a loan of Rs.7,000/- -3- NC: 2025:KHC:13527 CRL.P No. 6444 of 2022 through loan apps called "Quick Credit" and "GAKE" and

even after repaying the loan, he was coerced into engage

in illegal activities. When he refused, the accused misused

his Aadhaar, PAN, and photographs to defame him. It is

further alleged that accused through "Small Loan App" and

Star Capita" apps, provided loans to the public but later

harassed borrowers, misused the personal data, created

obscene content, and circulated it via WhatsApp, causing

distress to them. 3. The learned counsel for petitioners' would

contend that the petitioners' were the directors initially,

but subsequently, they ceased to be the directors. The

first informant is a stranger to them. The complaint is

false, frivolous and motivated and therefore, continuation

of criminal proceedings, initiated based on such a

complaint is liable to be quashed. He contended that the

petitioners' were arrested without issuing notice to them

and therefore, the entire proceedings are vitiated. -4- NC: 2025:KHC:13527 CRL.P No. 6444 of 2022 4. Learned High Court Government Pleader has

contended that serious allegations are made, which has to

be investigated and since the investigation is at the

inception, the relief sought in the petition cannot be

granted. 5. It is alleged that the first informant availed a

loan of Rs.7,000/- from an online app i.e, "Quick Credit

and Gake" and even though he repaid the amount, the

accused who had access to his Aadhar card, Pan card and

photographs, misused the same and committed the above

offences etc. 6. The contention of learned counsel that the

complaint is false and frivolous etc., cannot be accepted at

this stage, since the investigation is at the initial stage.

The contention that the arrest was made without issuance

of notice is also not a ground to quash the entire

proceedings. It is submitted by the learned counsel that,

on that ground the petitioner was enlarged on bail. -5- NC: 2025:KHC:13527 CRL.P No. 6444 of 2022 7. It is the case of petitioners' that they were the

directors only initially and later ceased to be the directors

etc. They can bring the said fact to the notice of

investigation officer by placing the relevant documents.

The prerogative of the police to conduct investigation into

the allegations made in the complaint cannot be interfered

with. The investigation officer shall conduct a fair

investigation and file an appropriate report. There is no

merit in the petition. Accordingly, petition is dismissed. I.A.No.1/2024 shall stand disposed of. Sd/- (MOHAMMAD NAWAZ)
 JUDGE

PK List No.: 1 Sl No.: 1 CT: BHK