Heard learned Counsel for the parties. 2. The petitioner is stated to be the owner and director of one

 Wordbox Services Pvt. Ltd. 3. From the FIR lodged in the case, we find that four names have

 been mentioned as accused and they are i) Mastermind

 Services, ii) Mr. Bharat Kumar Rathor, iii) Mr. Sachin Shete

 and iv) Mr. Ramesh Bharatifor. In the FIR, there is no

 mention of the name of the present petitioner. Initially,

 offence under Sections 420 / 406 / 120B was alleged.

 Subsequently, offence under Sections 419/467/468/441 IPC

 has been added and investigation was taken up. 4. It is alleged in the FIR that the accused persons named in the 2 FIR had approached the informant for sale of "SMS Push

 Services" at a price of Rs. 1,87,06,474/-. Though the service

 was provided, no payment was made till 26.12.2022. 5. In course of investigation came to light that a fake E-mail ID

 has been generated in the name of Mastermind Services.

 Further investigation revealed that the fake E-mail ID has

 been generated by using a cell number belonging to the

 company of the present petitioner. From the investigation, it

 was found that the entire services of 'SMS Push' has been

 hijacked by the company of the present petitioner in the name

 of Mastermind Services through fake E-mail IDs created at

 different times. 6. It is submitted by learned Counsel for the informant that the

 SMS services used by an unauthorized person in the guise of

 another company had the potency not only to defraud that

 another company but the public at large by sending SMS of

 different services by opening of which link given in the SMS,

 fraud may be committed in respect of the account of the

 public at large. 7. Mr. Mukherjee, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

 petitioner in answer submits that the fact that the phone

 number of the company of the petitioner was used for the

 purpose of creation of fake E-mail ID is available in the web

 as submitted by Mr. Nandy, learned Additional Public

 Prosecutor. The direct involvement of the petitioner is not

 established and any employee or agency of the petitioner

 might have played foul with the petitioner. The entire evidence 3 being document based, there is no justification for custodial

 interrogation. 8. Having heard learned Counsel for the parties, we are of the

 view that though no offence under the provisions of IT Act has

 been charged by the police, the offence committed by the

 petitioner, his employee or his agencies as the case may be, is

 very serious in nature and it has serious ramification on the

 public at large. The investigation should be driven more

 towards the root to find out how far the "Push SMS Service" 9. Investigation into such a case is very complex in nature and

 we are constrained to hold that custodial interrogation in

 such a case is very much necessary to reach at the root. 10.In view of such, we are not inclined to exercise our discretion

 under Section 438 Cr.P.C. in favour of the petitioner. 11. Accordingly, the prayer for anticipatory bail is rejected. 12. The application being CRM (A) 4073 of 2023 is dismissed. 13. The observation made above is limited to disposal of this

 application. (Chitta Ranjan Dash, J.)

 (Partha Sarathi Sen, J.) 4