1. The petitioner in WPA No. 21813 of 2025, has prayed for cancelation of

 the Other Backward Classes Certificate of the private respondent in

 terms of Section 9 of the West Bengal Scheduled Castes and Scheduled

 Tribes (Identification) Act, 1994 read with Rule 5 of the West Bengal

 Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Identification) Rules, 1995. 2. The petitioner in WPA No. 20033 of 2025, has prayed for setting aside

 the impugned order passed by the Sub-Divisional Officer, Tamluk in

 Case No. 10/2025 dated 23rd July, 2025, wherein it is held that the

 petitioner does not belong to the Other Backward community. 3. The writ petitioner in WPA No. 21813 of 2025 contested Panchayat

 Elections, 2023 in the State of West Bengal in Booth No. 148 in 3 Iswarpur No.5 Gram Panchayat, under Chandipur Block under the

 banner of Bharatiya Janata Party as an Other Backward Classes

 Candidate (Kansari). The private respondent who is the writ petitioner

 in WPA No. 20033 of 2025 contested the same election under the

 banner of Trinamool Congress for the post of Pradhan, which was

 reserved for the candidates belonging to the Other Backward Classes

 category. The private respondent was elected as Pradhan and at

 present the private respondent holding the post of Pradhan, Iswarpur

 Gram Panchayat. 4. Subsequent to the elections, the petitioner came to know that the OBC

 Certificate relied upon by the private respondent on the basis of which

 the private respondent has contested the elections for the Post of

 Pradhan as OBC category, has obtained the said certificate

 fraudulently. The petitioner has made several requests to the

 authorities for cancellation of the OBC Certificate of the private

 respondent but no action was taken. 5. The petitioner, finding no other alternative, has filed a writ application

 being WPA No. 22555 of 2023 praying for cancellation of the OBC

 Certificate of the private respondent. The said writ petition was

 disposed of by the Coordinate Bench of this Court by an order dated

 15th January, 2025, directing the Sub-Divisional Officer to conduct a

 re-enquiry and to ascertain the proper category of the private

 respondent and to pass a reasoned and speaking order within twelve

 (12) weeks from the date of receipt of the order. 4 6. In terms of the order passed by this Court, the Sub-Divisional Officer

 has conducted enquiry and after giving an opportunity of hearing to the

 private respondent, the Sub-Divisional Officer passed an order on 23rd

 July, 2025, holding that the private respondent does not belong to the

 OBC community, sub-caste Tanti (Tantubaya). 7. Mr. Billwadal Bhattacharyya, Learned Senior Advocate representing the

 writ petitioner in WPA No. 21813 of 2025 submits that the Coordinate

 Bench of this Court by an order dated 15th January, 2025, categorically

 directed that if the allegation of the petitioner is proper, then necessary

 remedial measures shall be taken but though the Sub-Divisional Officer

 held that the private respondent does not belong to the OBC

 community but failed to take further steps for cancellation of the OBC

 Certificate of the private respondent. 8. Mr. Bhattacharyya submits that the petitioner has also made a

 representation to the respondent no.3 for taking appropriate steps for

 immediate cancelation, impounding and revocation of the OBC

 Certificate of the private respondent but no further steps have been

 taken by the respondent no.3. 9. Mr. Bhattacharyya submits that though the respondent no.3 has held

 that the private respondent does not belong to the OBC community but

 the private respondent is continuously holding the post of Pradhan on

 the basis of the OBC Certificate. He submits that the post of Pradhan of

 Iswarpur Gram Panchayat is reserved exclusively for the OBC category 5 and it is established that the private respondent does not belongs to

 OBC category but still the private respondent is allowed to continue to

 be the Pradhan of the said panchayat. 10. Mr. Bhattacharyya submits that by the order of the Sub-Divisional

 Officer, it is conclusively established that the private respondent has

 obtained OBC Certificate by fraudulent means and, by reason thereof,

 unlawfully contested the election for the post of Pradhan which was

 reserved for OBC category and the private respondent is still holding

 the post of Pradhan, which is a clear violation of the Constitutional

 Scheme of Reservation and statutory mandate, causing substantial

 prejudice to the petitioner and the community. 11. In support of his submission, Mr. Bhattacharyya has relied upon the

 judgment in the case of Biswajit Das Vs. State of West Bengal reported in 2017 (5) CHN (CAL) 497 and submits that when a person

 who is not a member of a Scheduled Castes/ Tribes obtains a false

 certificate with a view to gain undue advantage to which he is not

 otherwise entitled, that would amount to commission of fraud calling

 for immediate corrective action so as to prevent subversion of the

 constitutional purpose and no leniency can be shown. 12. Mr. Kartik Chandra Kapas, Learned Advocate representing the writ

 petitioner in WPA No. 20033 of 2025 (private respondent in WPA No.

 21813 of 2025) submits that the private respondent obtained OBC

 Certificate on 1st June, 2013, issued by the Sub-Divisional Officer, 6 Tamluk on the basis of the recommendation of the Block Development

 Officer and the ex-Pradhan. He submits that in the year 2013 and

 2018, the private respondent contested election from Iswarpur Gram

 Panchayat as an OBC candidate by the symbol of All India Trinamool

 Congress. 13. Mr. Kapas submits that in the year 2023 also the private respondent

 contested the election to the post of Pradhan as an OBC candidate and

 the petitioner has also contested the said election and he has lost

 election from the private respondent, only to take revenge has initiated

 a false case against the private respondent. 14. Mr. Kapas submits that the petitioner could not produce relevant

 documents to the Sub-Divisional Officer at the time of hearing as due

 to the cyclone, namely, Aila, the petitioner has lost her many valuable

 documents and secondly when she was travelling to Chandipur BDO

 Office, she has lost her bag containing original deeds, pass book and

 other valuable documents and the said matter was also reported to the

 concern police authority and G.D. Entry was also lodged by the police

 authority on 25th June, 2025. 15. Mr. Kapas, during hearing of the case, has handed over the

 Memorandum issued by the Government of West Bengal dated 30th

 April, 2010 wherein the guidelines for issuance of OBC Certificates are

 provided and submits that the authority has issued OBC Certificate on

 the basis of the said guidelines but at the time of cancellation of the 7 OBC Certificate, the Sub-Divisional Officer has not considered the

 guidelines dated 30th April, 2010. In support of his submissions, he has

 relied upon the judgement in the case of Darvell Investment and

 Leasing (I) Pvt. Ltd. and Others Vs. State of West Bengal & Others reported in 2015 (2) CHN (CAL) 674. 16. Mr. Kapas submits that the Sub-Divisional Officer has no authority to

 cancel OBC Certificate and in support of his submissions, he has relied

 upon an unreported judgment in the case of Krishnapada Sardar

 and Another Vs. The State of West Bengal & Others in WPA No.

 24655 (W) of 2018 dated 10th January, 2020 wherein the Coordinate

 Bench of this Court held that it was de hors the jurisdiction of the Sub-

 Divisional Officer to cancel the certificate of the petitioner, within the

 purview of Section 9(1) of the 1994 Act. 17. Mr. Vivekananda Bose, Learned Advocate appearing for the State in

 WPA No. 21813 of 2025 submits that after the order passed by the

 Sub-Divisional Officer for cancellation of OBC Certificate of the private

 respondent, the private respondent has filed writ petition challenging

 the said order, thus the Sub-Divisional Officer has not taken any

 further steps. 18. Mr. Bose further submits that now, he has an information that the

 Sub-Divisional Officer has issued notice to the private respondent

 directing to submit the OBC Certificate in the Office of the Sub-

 Divisional Officer. 19. Mr. Swapan Banerjee, Learned AGP appearing for the State in WPA No.

 20033 of 2025 and submits that as per the order passed by this Court

 in the earlier round of litigation, the Sub-Divisional Officer has

 enquired into the matter after giving an opportunity of hearing to the

 petitioner as well as the private respondent but the private respondent

 failed to submit required documents to establish that the private

 respondent belongs to the OBC community. 20. Mr. Banerjee submits that the Sub-Divisional Officer has cancelled the

 OBC Certificate of the private respondent and the private respondent

 has challenged the said order of cancellation in a writ proceeding but

 as per Section 7(G) of the West Bengal Scheduled Castes and Schedule

 Tribes (Identification) Rules, 1995, the impugned order is an appealable

 order, thus the Writ Petition No. 20033 of 2025 is not maintainable. 21. By an order dated 15th January, 2025, the Coordinate Bench of this

 Court passed the following order: 22. In compliance of the order passed by this Court dated 15th January,

 2025, the Sub-Divisional Officer conducted an enquiry through Block

 Development Officer, Joint Block Development Officer and Inspector

 (BCW). The said officials after conducting enquiry, have submitted joint

 enquiry report which reads as follows: 24. The first issue raised by the private respondent that the Sub-Divisional

 Officer has not considered the guidelines for issuance of OBC

 Certificate and cancelled the OBC Certificate. As per guidelines, the 12 Scrutiny Committee and District Vigilance Cell shall exclusively deal

 with cases arising out of complaints in regard to impounding/

 revocation of certificates. In the said guidelines, it is also clarified that

 the provisions and procedures as applicable for similar actions for SC

 and ST Certificates are applicable here mutatis mutandis. 25. In the case of Darvell Investment (supra), the Hon'ble Division Bench

 of this Court held that: In view of the socio-legal background leading
to constitution of the Committee to weed out cases
of illegal and unjust deprivation of deserving
members of the SC/ST community from their
constitutional privileges, the high-powered
composition of the Committee comprising of senior
and experienced personnel and the wide and
unfettered amplitude of the words employed in
describing the powers of the Committee in sub-
clauses(c), (e) and (i) of section 8A(3) of the Act one
is persuaded to hold that such powers are
independent and not ancillary or incidental to the
power vested in the Committee under sub-section(1)
of section 8A of the Act. Hence, we are unable to accept the contention
of the learned senior counsel of the appellants that
the powers of the Committee enumerated in section
8A(3) of the Act are not substantive in nature but
are ancillary and/or incidental to the powers of the
Committee as provided in sub-section (1) of section 14 8A of the Act. The ratio in Beedi Leaves (supra) is
therefore of no assistance to the appellants. A conjoint reading of the aforesaid provisions
would make it clear that the intention of the
legislature was not to restrict the power of the State
Scrutiny Committee merely to verify social status of
persons in whose favour a certificate has been
illegally issued under section 5 . The Committee is
empowered to look into all contraventions of any
provisions of the Act. An illegal cancellation of a
caste certificate issued under section 5 of the Act to
a member of the SC/ST community without
following the procedure laid down in section 9(1) read with Rule 3 of the State Rules (as alleged in
this case) is undoubtedly a contravention of the
provisions of the Act which would be amenable to
the supervisory jurisdiction of the Committee under section 8A(3)(c)(e) & (i) of the Act. It is trite law that social legislations are to be
interpreted in a manner so that the benefits under
the said law may be extended to the members of
the socially backward community which it seeks to
protect. Reference may be made to Pandey
Oraon v. Ram Chander Sahu , 1992 Supp (2) SCC
77 where the Apex Court while interpreting
beneficial provisions of Chhotanagpur Tenancy Act
enacted to protect the property rights of Scheduled
Caste community held as follows: Act of 1994 is a social legislation to identify
and acknowledge the status of members of the
scheduled caste and scheduled tribe by issuing
certificates under section 5 of the said Act so that 15 they may enjoy constitutional privileges reserved
for them. Unjust and/or unfair cancellation of such
status by an authority without following the
procedure laid down in the Act and the Rules
framed thereunder would result in grave injustice
to such member of the socially and educationally
backward community. State Scrutiny Committee is a high powered
expert body comprising of the most experienced
personnel who have the requisite expertise,
experience and machinery at their disposal to make
proper enquiry into the social status of an
individual whose caste certificate has been illegally
cancelled by the Certificate Issuing Authority in
contravention of the procedure provided under the
Act and the rules framed thereunder. To denude
the Committee of such jurisdiction by merely
referring to the definition clause in Section 2(a) or
its powers under section 8A(1) of the Act would
render the powers engrafted in clauses (c), (e) and (i) of section 8A(3) otiose and redundant. Such an
interpretation would also militate against the real
intention of the legislature and deprive a deserving
member of the SC/ST community from ventilating
his grievances under the statutory scheme against
illegal cancellation of his caste certificate in
contravention of the provisions of the Act before the
high-powered expert body which is best suited to
enquire into such contraventions. To hold otherwise
would defeat both the letter and spirit of the law
which seeks to create a plenary expert body to
verify social status of individuals and ensure that
the deserving members of SC/ST community are
not deprived of their just constitutional privileges. For the aforesaid reasons, it is opined that the
Committee has jurisdiction to enquire into
complaints of illegal cancellation of caste certificate
by the Certificate Issuing Authority in contravention
of the provisions of the Act under section 9(1) of the
Act and undertake verification of the social status
of the aggrieved person in connection therewith.

 Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed and the
judgement and order passed by the learned Single
Judge is upheld." 26. The Judgment of Darvell Investment (supra) was considered by the

 another Bivision Bench of this Court in the case of Biswajit Das (supra) wherein the Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court held that: 21. Having read the provisions of the 1994
Act, we find the absence of an appellate forum to
which an appeal could be carried against an order
cancelling a certificate under section 9(1) of the
1994 Act. We are inclined to the view that the
coordinate Bench was mindful of such absence in
the statute and had by judicial interpretation
recognized the Committee to be a forum who would
have supervisory jurisdiction in respect of orders
passed by a certificate issuing authority cancelling
certificates earlier issued, without observing the
procedure prescribed by the 1994 Act and rules
framed thereunder. We have also not found any
observation in the said decision that a certificate
issuing authority may not suo motu initiate
proceedings for cancellation/ impounding/
revocation of a certificate if the circumstances so
warrant or that a report of the Committee is a
condition precedent for initiation of such
proceeding. 22. Be that as it may, it is now time to note a
decision of the Supreme Court cited by Mr.
Bhattacharya on harmonious construction. 23. In Sultana Begum (supra), the Supreme
Court in paragraph 15 captured the essence of all
the decisions considered by it on harmonious
construction by observing as follows: 24. We are also of the view, having read section 9 of the 1994 Act again and again, that a
harmonious construction of sub-sections (1) and (2)
would result in ironing out the creases. Our reading
of section 9 read with Rule 3 of the West Bengal
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
(Identification) Rules, 1995 (hereafter the 1995
Rules) is this. In terms of sub-section (1) of section
9 read with sub-rule (1) of rule 3, either on a
complaint by any person or suo motu, the certificate
issuing authority upon recording a prima
facie satisfaction that a certificate under the 1994
Act has been obtained by any person by furnishing
any false information or by misrepresenting any
fact or by suppression of any material information
or by producing any document which is an act of
forgery, may start proceedings for cancellation,
impounding or revocation of the certificate, as the
case may be. Once the proceedings are
commenced, the procedure prescribed in sub-rules
(2) to (4) of rule 3 of the 1995 Rules shall be
followed and the proceeding shall be taken to its
logical conclusion by an order in writing and,
thereafter, further steps as is provided for in sub-
rules (5) and (6) are to be taken. The certificate
issuing authority also has the power under sub-
rule (7) to launch criminal prosecution. Reading of section 9(1) with rule 3 does not impose any
obligation on the certificate issuing authority to 19 obtain any report of the Committee. If at all the
certificate issuing authority in its exercise of power
to cancel, impound and/or revoke a certificate
contravenes the provisions of section 9(1) read with
rule 3(1), it would be open to the aggrieved party to
invoke the supervisory jurisdiction of the Committee
constituted under section 8A for redress. 25. What section 9(2) provides is this. Since it
starts with a non-obstante clause, nothing
contained in section 9(1) would fetter the power of
the Committee to cancel, impound or revoke a
certificate which might have been issued to a
person based on false information/
misrepresentation of fact/ suppression of material
information/ production of a forged document. The
intent of the legislation is that even if the certificate
issuing authority does not initiate any proceeding
under section 9(1) , the Committee may, acting as
the original authority, initiate proceedings for
cancellation, impounding or revocation of a
certificate that has been issued to a person based
on such false information, misrepresentation,
suppression, production of forged document. 26. Our reading of the decision of the
coordinate Bench in Darvell Investment & Leasing
(I) Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is that, a person whose caste
certificate is cancelled could make the order of
cancellation amenable to the supervisory
jurisdiction of the Committee or challenge such
action by approaching the writ court in an
appropriate case. 27. Although the decision in Bikash Chandra
Mahata (supra) lays down that the certificate
issuing authority has no authority to cancel a
scheduled caste certificate issued in favour of a
person and such act is without jurisdiction, we find
that such a finding has been returned based on the
first Madhuri Patil decision (supra) without
considering the effect of section 9(1) of the Act read
with rule 3 of the 1995 Rules, as well as the
interpretation of section 9(2) of the Act by the
coordinate Bench in Darvell Investment & Leasing
(I) Pvt. Ltd. (supra). We are not inclined to the view
that the decision in Bikash Chandra 20 Mahata (supra) lays down the law correctly and
 accordingly, we record our respectful disagreement
 therewith. 28. The first and the second Madhuri
 Patil decisions (supra) have been perused. It
 appears that even before the first Madhuri
 Patil decision (supra), the 1994 Act was enacted in
 the State of West Bengal. Considering that the
 issue emanating for decision is covered by
 legislation, we hold that any observation made in
 the decisions in Madhuri Patil (supra) would only
 be of persuasive value. 29. Law is well-settled that when a person
 who is not a member of a scheduled caste/tribe
 obtains a false certificate with a view to gain undue
 advantage to which he is/was not otherwise
 entitled, that would amount to commission of fraud
 calling for immediate corrective action so as to
 prevent subversion of the constitutional purpose
 and no leniency can be shown. 30. Having heard our tentative views
 expressed in course of hearing and having realized
 that the decision in Darvell Investment & Leasing (I)
 Pvt. Ltd. (supra) by judicial interpretation of sections 8A and 9 of the 1994 Act has recognized a
 power of supervisory jurisdiction being vested in
 the Committee, Mr. Bhattacharya prayed that
 Biswajit may be permitted to raise his grievance
 before the Committee against the order of the SDO
 cancelling his certificate. 31. We are afraid, the prayer need not be
 allowed in view of the third point raised by Mr.
 Dutta to the effect that the certificate issuing
 authority had assigned appropriate reason for
 cancellation of the certificate issued in favour of
 Biswajit." 27. In the present case, the Sub-Divisional Officer in terms of the order

 passed by this Court initiated proceeding against the private

 respondent for enquiry of the OBC Certificate obtained by the private 21 respondent. The Sub-Divisional Officer before coming to conclusion

 that the private respondent does not belong to OBC category, has

 constituted a Committee. The private respondent has appeared before

 the Committee and has not raised any objection of constitution of

 Committee. The Committee has submitted report. The private

 respondent has also not challenged the said report either before the

 Sub-Divisional Officer or in the present writ application. 28. The private respondent has taken a specific plea that some of the

 documents have been lost in cyclone and some of the documents has

 been lost during travelling but she has not given the description of the

 documents, which she was relying. As per guidelines, the applicants

 has to fulfill the following criteria: 29. In the report of the Committee, it reveals that the private respondent

 has not given any specific documents that could be established her

 caste as OBC. In the report, it is also mentioned that the people

 residing in the locality of Chandipur Development Block are mainly 22 belongs to Mahishya sub-caste community and her mother also belongs

 to same community before her marriage. On enquiry from various

 people of that area including the family members of the private

 respondent, the Committee finds that their Clan (Gotra) was Sandilya

 before marriage. 30. Now the respondent authorities have also issued a notice to the private

 respondent to submit her OBC Certificate in the Office of the Sub-

 Divisional Officer. 31. This Court did not find any illegality in the order passed by the Sub-

 Divisional Officer dated 23rd July, 2025, holding that the private

 respondent does not belong to OBC community, sub-caste "Tanti,

 Tantubaya". 32. Once the Sub-Divisional Officer come to the conclusion that the private

 respondent does not belong to OBC community, the Sub-Divisional

 Officer ought to have passed an order of cancellation of the OBC

 Certificate of the private respondent but till date no action is being

 taken for cancellation of the OBC Certificate of private respondent. 33. In view of the above, the Sub-Divisional Officer is directed to take

 appropriate immediate steps for cancellation of the OBC certificate of

 Smt. Khukurani Mondal Ghorai, the private respondent in WPA No.

 21813 of 2025, within a period of one (1) week from the date of receipt

 of this order. 34. WPA No. 21813 of 2025 is allowed. WPA No. 20033 of 2025 is

 dismissed. Parties shall be entitled to act on the basis of a server copy of the

 Judgment placed on the official website of the Court.

 Urgent Xerox certified photocopies of this judgment, if applied for,

 be given to the parties upon compliance of the requisite formalities. (Krishna Rao, J.)