- 1. Admit. 2. Heard finally with the consent of the learned counsel

appearing for the appellant, learned APP and the learned counsel

appearing for respondent No.2. 3. By the present appeal under Section 14-A of the

Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,

the appellant/accused takes exception to the order dated 26.12.2025,

passed in Criminal Bail Application No.1042 of 2025 by the learned

Additional Sessions Judge-1/Special Judge, Nanded, thereby declined

to enlarge the appellant/accused on anticipatory bail in connection

with Crime No.357 of 2025, registered with Itwara Police Station,

Nanded on 25.11.2025, for the offence punishable under Sections

108, 352, 351(3) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, under Sections 3(1) (r), 3(2)(va), 3(2)(5) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

(Prevention of Atrocities) Act , 4. On the face of the record, it appears that on 25.11.2025,

the informant/respondent No. 2 lodged an oral report with Itwara

Police Station, Nanded, alleging that his son Deepak was working as a

contract labourer with Krushi Udyog, Chandasingh Corner, Nanded,

and to overcome financial crisis, his son had obtained a loan of

 2 of 19
 (( 3 )) Cri**-Appeal-37-2026

Rs.2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakh) from one Lakhan Thakur by

mortgaging sale-deed of the plot approximately one and half years

prior thereto. However, said Lakhan Thakur was lodged in jail in

some other crime. The said mortgage period was to expire in the

month of February 2025. At that time, he paid Rs.2,00,000/- to said

Ranveer Thakur towards repayment of said loan and got sale-deed of

the plot. After release from jail, Lakhan Thakur visited in front of the

informant's house and abused on his caste by demanding an amount

of Rs.3,00,000/- (Rupees Three Lakh) towards loan interest. The

respondent No.2 / informant further alleged that, on 23.11.2025, at

about 10.00 a.m., one villager Smt. Manebai gave a phone call to his

son Deepak and demanded refund of loan amount. Prior to one year,

his son Deepak borrowed loan amount of Rs.70,000/- on interest

from the present appellant- Kausalyabai Telang but said loan was still

not paid. Therefore, since past seven months, the appellant / accused

was continuously visiting him and was also abusing on his caste. It is

further alleged that the accused Lakhan Thakur, Manebai and the

present appellant Kausalyabai Thakur, were having knowledge that

the respondent No.2 and his son belong to Scheduled Caste and they

were continuously harassing the complainant's son Deepak and also

 3 of 19
 (( 4 )) Cri**-Appeal-37-2026

abused him in public view on his caste because of non-refund of loan

amount. So also, all the accused had issued life threat to his son on

failure of repayment of loan. Hence, on 23.11.2025 at about 22.00

hours, his son Deepak committed suicide by plunging in Godavari

riverbed. On the basis of said report, Crime No.357 of 2025 was

registered with Itwara Police Station, Nanded for the offence

punishable under Sections 108, 352, 351(3) of the Bharatiya Nyaya

Sanhita, under Sections 3(1)(r) , 3(2)(va) , 3(2)(5) of the Scheduled

Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. 5. The appellant/accused filed Criminal Bail Application

No.1042 of 2025 and prayed for anticipatory bail. However, on

26.12.2025, the learned Additional Sessions Judge-1, Nanded, passed

the impugned order and declined to grant anticipatory bail to the

present appellant / accused. 6. The learned counsel for the appellant has filed written

notes of argument and also argued the matter for a considerable

period. The learned counsel for the appellant canvassed that as per

the contents of the F.I.R., there were loan transactions between the

deceased Deepak and Shivshankar Bhujangrao Telang, the son of

 4 of 19
 (( 5 )) Cri**-Appeal-37-2026

present appellant and Smt. Mangalabai Ramdas Gajale, the mother of

the deceased. The present appellant is not signatory to the said bond

and she is involved in said alleged loan transaction. Further, the F.I.R.

does not reveals any allegation against the present appellant about

cheating, criminal breach of trust, extortion or forgery as against the

present appellant/accused and no offence is registered for

contravention of provisions of Bombay Money Lending Act. So also,

the appellant is ready and willing to prodeuce the bond allegedly

executed between Shivshankar Bhujangrao Telang, the appellant's son

and Manglabai Ramdas Gajale, the deceased's mother before the

Investigating Officer. Therefore, recovery of said Bond custodial

interrogation of the appellant is not required. 7. In support of these submissions the learned counsel for

the appellant placed reliance on the case of Vasant Kerba Shinde Vs.

State of Maharashtra and another , (Criminal Appeal No.796 of 2021,

decided on 09.08.2021), wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court

observed that, the documents are relied upon to submit that there

were no money transactions between the present appellant and the

complainant and that the transaction referred to in the F.I.R. was

actually with Hari Kerba Shinde, who is no more. Therefore, the

 5 of 19
 (( 6 )) Cri**-Appeal-37-2026

learned counsel for the appellant submits that in the case in hand, the

alleged unregistered bond was executed between the son of the

appellant and mother of the deceased. Therefore, there were money

transactions between the appellant and the deceased. The dispute

was predominantly financial in nature and it does not disclose any

grave criminal intent requiring custodial interrogation of the present

appellant. 8. It further relied on the case of Keshav Reddy s/o Ramlu

Yeltiwar & Ors. Vs. The State of Maharashtra & Anr., (2019) NearLaw

(Bombay HC Aurangabad) Online 2723, Criminal Appeal No.1024 of

2019, decided on 03.12.2019), wherein, this Court observed in

paragraph Nos. 11, 12 and 13, as under:- 9. The learned counsel for the appellant further relied on

the case of Sushila Aggarwal and others Vs. State (NCT of Delhi) and

another , AIR 2020 SC 831, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court laid

down the guiding principles while dealing with the applications under Section 438 of Cr.P.C., as under:- It is not a necessary condition that an application should be
moved only after an FIR is filed; it can be moved earlier, so long
as the facts are clear and there is reasonable basis for
apprehending arrest. (b) The court, before which an application under Section 438,
is filed, depending on the seriousness of the threat (of arrest) as
a measure of caution, may issue notice to the public prosecutor
and obtain facts, even while granting limited interim
anticipatory bail. (c) Section 438 Cr. PC does not compel or oblige courts to
impose conditions limiting relief in terms of time, or upon filing
of FIR, or recording of statement of any witness, by the police,
during investigation or inquiry, etc. While weighing and
considering an application (for grant of anticipatory bail) the
court has to consider the nature of the offence, the role of the
person, the likelihood of his influencing the course of
investigation, or tampering with evidence (including
intimidating witnesses), likelihood of fleeing justice (such as
leaving the country), etc. The courts would be justified - and
ought to impose conditions spelt out in Section 437 (3), Cr. PC
[by virtue of Section 438 (2)]. The necessity to impose other
restrictive conditions, would have to be weighed on a case by
case basis, and depending upon the materials produced by the
state or the investigating agency. Such special or other
restrictive conditions may be imposed if the case or cases
warrant, but should not be imposed in a routine manner, in all
cases. Likewise, conditions which limit the grant of anticipatory
bail may be granted, if they are required in the facts of any case
or cases; however, such limiting conditions may not be
invariably imposed. (d) Courts ought to be generally guided by the considerations
such nature and gravity of the offences, the role attributed to
the applicant, and the facts of the case, while assessing whether
to grant anticipatory bail, or refusing it. Whether to grant or
not is a matter of discretion; equally whether, and if so, what
kind of special conditions are to be imposed (or not imposed)
are dependent on facts of the case, and subject to the discretion
of the court. (e) Anticipatory bail granted can, depending on the conduct
and behavior of the accused, continue after filing of the charge
sheet till end of trial. Also orders of anticipatory bail should not
be "blanket" in the sense that it should not enable the accused
to commit further offences and claim relief. It should be
confined to the offence or incident, for which apprehension of
arrest is sought, in relation to a specific incident. It cannot
operate in respect of a future incident that involves commission
of an offence. (f) Orders of anticipatory bail do not in any manner limit or
restrict the rights or duties of the police or investigating agency,
to investigate into the charges against the person who seeks
and is granted pre-arrest bail. (g) The observations in Sibbia regarding "limited custody" or
"deemed custody" to facilitate the requirements of the
investigative authority, would be sufficient for the purpose of
fulfilling the provisions of Section 27, in the event of recovery
of an article, or discovery of a fact, which is relatable to a
statement made during such event (i.e. deemed custody). In
such event, there is no question (or necessity) of asking the
accused to separately surrender and seek regular bail. Sibbia
(supra) had observed that "if and when the occasion arises, it
may be possible for the prosecution to claim the benefit of Section 27 of the Evidence Act in regard to a discovery of facts
made in pursuance of information supplied by a person
released on bail by invoking the principle stated by this Court
in State of U.P. v Deoman Upadhyaya ." (h) It is open to the police or the investigating agency to move
the court concerned, which granted anticipatory bail, in the
first instance, for a direction under Section 439 (2) to arrest the

 9 of 19
 (( 10 )) Cri**-Appeal-37-2026

accused, in the event of violation of any term, such as
absconding, non-cooperating during investigation, evasion,
intimidation or inducement to witnesses with a view to
influence outcome of the investigation or trial, etc. The court -
in this context is the court which grants anticipatory bail, in the
first instance, according to prevailing authorities. (i) The correctness of an order granting bail, can be considered
by the appellate or superior court at the behest of the state or
investigating agency, and set aside on the ground that the court
granting it did not consider material facts or crucial
circumstances. (See Prakash Kadam & Etc. Etc vs Ramprasad
Vishwanath Gupta & Anr52 ; Jai Prakash Singh (supra) State
through C.B.I. vs. Amarmani Tripathi53 ). This does not
amount to "cancellation" in terms of Section 439 (2), Cr. PC. (j) The judgment in Mhetre (and other similar decisions)
restrictive conditions cannot be imposed at all, at the time of
granting anticipatory bail are hereby overruled. Likewise, the
decision in Salauddin and subsequent decisions (including K.L.
Verma, Nirmal Jeet Kaur) which state that such restrictive
conditions, or terms limiting the grant of anticipatory bail, to a
period of time are hereby overruled. The Hon'ble Supreme Court further observed as under:- 10 of 19
 (( 11 )) Cri**-Appeal-37-2026

 (9) It is open to the police or the investigating agency to move
 the court concerned, which grants anticipatory bail, for a
 direction under Section 439 (2) to arrest the accused, in the
 event of violation of any term, such as absconding, non
 cooperating during investigation, evasion, intimidation or
 inducement to witnesses with a view to influence outcome of
 the investigation or trial, etc.
 (10) The court referred to in para (9) above is the court which
 grants anticipatory bail, in the first instance, according to
 prevailing authorities." 10. Mr. Prashant Madanrao Shinde, the Sub-Divisional Police

Officer, Sub-Division, Itwara, Nanded, has filed affidavit-in-reply and

strongly opposed the appeal. The learned APP canvassed that the

Investigating Officer conducted the investigation in connection with

Crime No.357 of 2025 and drawn inquest panchanama on the dead

body of Deepak and referred it for autopsy. The Investigating Officer

drawn spot panchanama and recorded the statements of the

witnesses, namely, Vaibhav Dnyanoba Waghmare, Mangalbai Ramdas

Gajale, mother of the deceased. Dinkar Ramdas Gajale, brother of the

deceased, Swapna Deepak Gajale, wife of the deceased etc.,under Section 161 of Cr.P.C.. The statements of all the witnesses show that

deceased Deepak was continuously harassed for refund of loan

amount and he was also abused on caste and insulted in public at he

hands of the present appellant/accused which due to which the

deceased committed suicide. The learned APP further canvassed that

 11 of 19
 (( 12 )) Cri**-Appeal-37-2026

as per the recital of F.I.R., the present appellant / accused advanced

loan of 70,000/- without necessary license under the Bombay Money

Lending Act obtained the bond from the deceased for Rs.2,00,000/-

(Rupees Two Lakh), therefore, custodial interrogation of the present

appellant/accused is required for seizure of said bond. Further, the

appellant/accused abused the deceased Deepak on his caste in public

view, therefore, offence is registered under Sections 108, 352, 351(3)

of the B.N.S. and under Sections 3(1)(r) , 3(2)(va) and 3(2)(5) of the

Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,

hence, as per the provisions of Section 18 of the Act, bar is created for

exercising power for grant of anticipatory bail under Section 438 of

Cr.P.C.. Hence, prayed for dismissal of the appeal. 11. The learned counsel for respondent No.2 submits that

Crime No.357 of 2025 is registered against the present appellant /

accused and others for the offence punishable under Sections 108,

352, 351(3) of the B.N.S. and under Sections 3(1)(r) , 3(2)(va) and 3(2)(5) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of

Atrocities) Act. Therefore, as per the provisions of Section 18 of the

Act, 1989, bar is created for grant of anticipatory bail under Section

438 of Cr.P.C.. 12. In support of his submissions, the learned counsel for

respondent No.2 relied on the case of Kiran Vs. Rajkumar Jivraj Jain

and Another , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 1886, wherein the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held that if the offence of abusement on caste has

occurred within the public view, it constitutes an offence under Section 3 of the SC/ST Atrocities Act. Therefore, Section 18 of the

Act, creates bar for enlarging the appellant / accused on anticipatory

bail under Section 438 of Cr.P.C. Therefore, the present appellant is

not entitled for anticipatory bail, hence prayed for dismissal of the

appeal. 13. After hearing both the sides at length, I have gone

through the record. In the case in hand, at the instance of respondent

No.2, Crime No.357 of 2025 registered against the present appellant/

accused and others for the offences punishable under Sections 108,

352, 351(3) of the B.N.S. and under Sections 3(1)(r) , 3(2)(va) and 3(2)(5) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of

Atrocities) Act. On perusal of the F.I.R., it appears that, on

23.11.2025, at about 22.00 hours, Mr. Deepak Ramdas Gajale, the

son of present respondent No.2 committed suicide by plunging from

 13 of 19
 (( 14 )) Cri**-Appeal-37-2026

bridge in Godavari riverbed. Respondent No.2 alleged that on

23.11.2025, at about 10.00 a.m., a phone call was received on mobile

of his deceased son Deepak from one villager Smt. Manebai, who

demanded refund of hand loan and issued life threat, if his son fail to

repay said loan. The respondent No.2 further alleged that his son

Deepak had obtained an amount of Rs.70,000/- on interest prior to

one year from the present appellant / accused Kausalya Telang and

the appellant had obtained bond of Rs.2,00,000/- in lieu of said loan.

Since the loan amount was not repaid within time, since past seven

months, the present appellant was continuously visiting at his house

and was abusing him and his on their caste. Therefore, due to mental

harassment and insult at the hands of the present appellant and other

accused his son committed suicide. 14. Needless to say, the contents of the F.I.R. do not disclose

the date on which the present appellant/accused allegedly visited the

house of respondent No. 2/informant. The Respondent no.2

Informant has not specified exact word of casteist slur and specific

abused words at the hands of the present appellant. Merely stating

that the appellant/accused abused the informant on the basis of caste

is not sufficient to attract the provisions of Section 3 of the Act, 1989. 15. In the case of Virendra Singh Vs. State of Rajasthan [ 2000 Cri. Law Journal 2899], the Full Bench of the Rajasthan High

Court held that it must be borne in mind that if a person is even

alleged to have committed an offence under the S.C./ S.T. Act, 1989 ,

the intention of Section 18 is clearly to debar him from seeking the

remedy of anticipatory bail. It is only in circumstances where there is

absolutely no material to infer why Section 3 has been applied to

implicate a person for an offence under the Act of 1989 that the

courts would be justified, within a very limited sphere, in examining

whether the application can be rejected on the ground of its

maintainability. It is further held that any other interpretation would

go against the letter and spirit of the clear provision of Section 18 of

the Act of 1989 which has already stood the test of reasonableness

and constitutional validity up to the level of the Apex Court. 16. In the case of Ratnakala Martandrao Mohite Vs. The State

of Maharashtra and anr., 2020 ALL MR (Cri) 334, this Court held that

the issue of applicability of Section 18 of the Act elaborately and held

that the provisions of Section 18 as well as newly amended Section

18 of the Act of 1989 create a bar for exercising jurisdiction under

 15 of 19
 (( 16 )) Cri**-Appeal-37-2026 Section 438 of the Cr.P.C. However, it would not preclude the

concerned Court from examination of allegations made in the F.I.R.

on its face value to determine whether prima facie case is made out or

not. 17. The main grievance of the prosecution is that if the

appellant / accused is granted anticipatory bail, in that circumstance,

it would amount to interference with the investigation and the bond

as alleged by respondent No.2 while lodging the F.I.R. would remain

unseized and the investigation may hamper. However, it is submitted

that as per the law laid down in the case of Sushila Aggarwal and

others, cited (supra), "limited custody" or "deemed custody" to

facilitate the requirement of the investigating authority, would be

satisfied for the purpose of fulfilling the provisions of Section 27 of

the Evidence Act, in that event, recovery of articles, disclosure of a

fact, which is relatable to a statement made during such event, is

deemed to be custody. 18. In the case in hand, the appellant /accused has filed

written notes of argument and annexed xerox copy of agreement to

sale of plot between Mangalbai Ramdas Gajale, the deceased's mother

and Shivshankar Bhujangrao Telang, the Appellant's son. The

 16 of 19
 (( 17 )) Cri**-Appeal-37-2026

appellant further agreed to produce original Agreement To Sale dated

13.05.2025 before the Investigating Officer. Therefore, the custodial

interrogation of the present appellant / accused is not required for

recovery of the Bond u/s 27 of the Evidence Act. 19. Nonetheless, the contents of the F.I.R., does not satisfy the

requirement to constitute an offence under Section 3 of the Act of

1989. Therefore, as per the ratio laid down in the case of Kiran Vs.

Rajkumar Jivraj Jain and another , cited (supra), I am of the view that,

the present appellant / accused has made out a prima facie case to

enlarge the appellant/accused on anticipatory bail during the

pendency of trial in Crime No. 357 of 2025, registered with Itwara

Police Station, Nanded. In view of above discussion, the impugned

order dated 26.12.2025, passed by the learned Additional Sessions

Judge-1, Nanded, in Criminal Bail Application No.1042 of 2025,

needs to be quashed and set aside. Accordingly, I proceed to pass the

following order:- (iii) The appellant/accused shall produce Original Bond
 executed on 13.05.2025 with the Investigating Officer as
 well as any other bond which have been executed
 between her and the deceased Deepak or his family
 members in connection with plot No.26 out of Gat No.35
 of Sahyadri Sahakari Grunirman Sanstha Maryadit,
 Gopalchawdi, Taluka District Nanded and for the purpose
 of recovery of bond custody of the appellant shall be
 considered u/s 27 of the Evidence Act. (iv) The appellant shall not induce, threat or pressurize the
 prosecution witnesses. (v) The appellant shall not commit similar offence in future
 and cooperate the Investigating Officer. (vi) The appellant is directed to attend the concerned police
 station on every Monday between 9.00 a.m. and 11.00
 a.m. till completion of investigation. (vii) The appellant is directed not to leave the territorial
 jurisdiction of Nanded Taluka, till completion of
 investigation, without prior permission. [ Y. G. KHOBRAGADE, J. ]

SMS

 19 of 19