1. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 30.09.10
Sapna, wife of accused Ramesh committed suicide at her
house by hanging herself from the fan with a chunni. Her
mother Smt. Manju gave statement before the SDM that
Sapna was married with accused Ramesh Kumar about four FIR No. 317/10 Page 1 of 25 years ago. It was the second marriage of Ramesh. His first
wife had died because of burn injuries. At the time of suicide
of Sapna her husband Ramesh and mother in law were
present at the house. She stated that Sapna had returned
back from her house to her matrimonial house only two days
before her suicide and at that time she was happy. She
stated that Sapna was ill and she obtained treatment at her
house. She stated that Sapna was compelled to commit
suicide because her husband, who was working in an
hospital did not get her treated and did not look after her and
was not having good behavior with her. The SDM Vivek
Vihar made her endorsement that accused Ramesh Kumar
was responsible for the suicide of Sapna and directed SHO,
PS Kalyanpuri to take action against him as per law. FIR u/s
498A / 306 IPC was registered against the accused.
Postmortem of the deceased was conducted. Accused was
arrested and on completion of investigation chargesheet
was filed against him u/s 498A / 306 IPC. 2. After compliance of Section 207 Cr. PC, the case
was committed to Sessions Court. Charge u/s 498A & 306 IPC was framed against the accused to which he pleaded
not guilty. 3. In order to prove its case, prosecution examined 11 FIR No. 317/10 Page 2 of 25 witnesses. PW-1 is HC Narender Singh, duty officer. He
recorded the FIR Ex.PW1/A.

 PW-2 is Vasudev Singh, Asst. Ambulance Officer.
He deposed that on 30.09.10 on receipt of call from CATS
Control Room, he alongwith his staff reached at the spot.
Accused Ramesh Kumar met him and told that his wife
Manju has bolted the door from inside and was attempting
to commit suicide. The PCR also reached there. PCR
officials and Ramesh Kumar broke the gate. Inside the room
they saw that a lady was hanging from ceiling fan with
chunni. Immediately, she was brought down after cutting the
chunni. On checking she was found dead. PW-3 is Smt. Usha Chaturvedi, SDM Vivek Vihar.
She had inspected the body of Sapna and recorded the
statement of Smt. Manju, mother of Sapna and got identified
the body from her parents vide Ex.PW3/B & Ex.PW3/C. She
had conducted the inquest proceedings vide Ex.PW3/D and
made request to the doctor to conduct postmortem vide
Ex.PW3/E and after postmortem handed over the body to
the relatives of the deceased vide Ex.PW3/F. On the
statement of Smt. Manju Ex.PW3/A she gave direction to
SHO, PS Kalyanpuri to take action against Ramesh Kumar
vide her order Ex.PW3/G. FIR No. 317/10 Page 3 of 25 PW-4 is Smt. Manju. She is the mother of the
deceased. She proved her statement recorded by the police
as Ex.PW3/DX-1. PW-5 is Sh. Rajbir . He is the father of the
deceased. He deposed that he had spent Rs. 2 lacs on the
marriage of his daughter Sapna and that Sapna never told
him that she was not kept well by the accused or his family.
He stated that he does not know why Sapna committed
suicide. He further deposed that his daughter returned to her
in laws house on Tuesday and on Thursday she committed
suicide and before that she had spent 15 - 20 days at his
house. He stated that when Sapna left his house on
Tuesday she was happy. PW-5 was declared hostile and
was cross examined by the Ld. APP. In the said cross
examination he admitted that Ramesh used to harass his
daughter immediately after their marriage. He admitted that
he gave a loan of Rs.1.5 lacs to accused so that he may
keep his daughter happy but the said amount was never
returned by the accused to him. He admitted that accused
did not get Sapna treated for her ailments. He admitted that
his wife got Sapna treated for about one month. He
admitted that next day when Sapna went from his house she
called his wife on telephone and told her that accused was FIR No. 317/10 Page 4 of 25 harassing her and her mother in law was not speaking with
her and taunting her. He denied that thereafter, he talked
with accused asking him not to harass his daughter and
behave properly. PW-6 is ASI Ahte Sham Ali from Crime Team. He
had inspected the spot and prepared the scene of crime
report and gave the same to the IO. PW-7 is Dr. B.N. Acharya He had conducted the
postmortem of the deceased and prepared the postmortem
report Ex.PW7/A.

 PW-8 is HC Maharaj Singh. He was on PCR duty.
He deposed that on 30.09.10 at about 3.35 pm a call was
received from Control Room "my wife is trying to commit
suicide" at T- 3, Block- 1, IIIrd Floor, Kalyan Vaas near LBS
Hospital. He immediately reached at the spot on his PCR
van. A CAT ambulance also reached at the spot. He went
at the IIIrd floor where accused Ramesh Kumar met him and
informed that his wife has bolted the door from inside and
was trying to commit suicide. He with the help of I/C CAT
ambulance pushed the door and broke the kundi and saw
that the wife of Ramesh was hanging from the fan with a
chunni knot around her neck. She was brought down after FIR No. 317/10 Page 5 of 25 cutting the knot. Incharge CAT ambulance checked her and
declared her dead. PW-9 is Chotte Lal. He deposed that deceased
Sapna was his niece and that after about 1 ½ year of her
marriage Sapna came at his house and told that accused
used to ill treat her. He counselled her not to get upset on
small matters as they happen in every family. He further
stated that once Rajbir asked him as to what he should do,
he told him that it was Sapna's family matter and everything
would get allright. PW-10 is ASI Mohd. Ali. He is the Investigating
Officer of this case. On receipt of DD No.23A Ex.PW10/A he
went at the spot where he found Sapna lying dead on the
bed inside the room. He called the Crime Team at the spot.
The Crime Team officials took the photographs from
different angles. Accused Ramesh was present but no other
relative of Sapna was present at the spot. He then informed
the SDM Vivek Vihar. The parents of the deceased were
also informed on the telephone. The body was preserved in
the Mortuary. The personal ornaments which she was
wearing were seized. The piece of chunni which was tied
around the kunda of fan was removed and seized. The body
was got identified in the hospital from the parents of the FIR No. 317/10 Page 6 of 25 deceased. Next day SDM inspected the spot and recorded
the statement of the parents of the deceased. SDM made
endorsement on the statement of Smt. Manju and prepared
the rukka Ex.PW10/D, got registered the FIR and prepared
the site plan Ex.PW10/E. Accused was arrested and his
disclosure statement Ex.PW10/F was recorded. Inquest
documents were collected and viscera was sent to FSL and
on completion of investigation chargesheet was filed. PW-11 is HC Gautam Soni, MHC(M). He proved
the relevant entries of Register No.19. 4. Statement of accused was recorded under Section
313 Cr. PC wherein he stated that he is innocent and has
been falsely implicated. 5. In his defence, accused examined DW-1
Nandaballabh Joshi, Record Clerk, Bimla Devi Hospital,
Mayur Vihar. He produced the carbon copy of the discharge
summary and the treatment record of Sapna. As per record
Sapna was admitted in hospital on 27.08.10 and was
discharged on 28.08.10, copy of the discharge summary is
Ex.DW1/A. 6. Arguments have been heard from Mohd. Iqrar, FIR No. 317/10 Page 7 of 25 learned Additional PP on behalf of the State and Sh. D.K.
Singh, Advocate on behalf of the accused. The learned
defence counsel has argued that in the testimonies of
witnesses, there is no allegation of any willful conduct which
would have caused harassment to the extent of driving the
accused to commit suicide or causing any danger to her life
or limb. There is also no evidence as to any omission or
commission of an act on the part of the accused which
amounts to instigation to commit suicide. It is contended that
taking the evidence of prosecution on its face value and
believing the same to be proved, charge is not proved
against the accused. The learned APP however submits that
deceased has died an unnatural death at her matrimonial
house. Her parents have proved that she was not kept well
and accused used to quarrel with her on small matters and
she was not provided treatment thereby compelling her to
commit suicide and therefore accused is liable to be
convicted for the offence under Section 498-A / 306 IPC. 7. As per postmortem report, the cause of death of
deceased Sapna was Asphyxia resulting from ligature
hanging. There is no eye witness of the occurrence.
Admittedly, the hanging took place at the matrimonial house
of the deceased. Following information reached the police
station Kalyan Puri vide DD No. 23-A: The information thus was given to the police station
by the accused. PW-2 Vasudev Singh, Assistant Ambulance
Officer and PW-8 HC Maharaj Singh, Incharge PCR van
reached at the spot on receipt of the above information.
Both of them deposed that accused Ramesh Kumar met
them and told them that his wife has bolted the door from
inside and was attempting to commit suicide. Both these
witnesses broke the kundi of the gate and brought down the
deceased who was found hanging from the fan with a
chunni knot around her neck. It is proved from their
testimonies that accused committed suicide in the room
after bolting the door from inside. Thus, the possibility of
involvement of any third person in the incident is ruled out.
The death although unnatural is suicidal in nature. 8. In order to succeed to the charge under Section
306 IPC, the prosecution was required to prove not only that
deceased Sapna committed the suicide, but also that the
accused directly or indirectly abetted the commission of
suicide by her. In order to amount to abetment, there must
be mens rea. Without knowledge or intention, there can be
no abetment and the mere fact that the deceased wife was FIR No. 317/10 Page 9 of 25 treated by the accused with cruelty by itself may not be
sufficient to prove abetment of suicide unless the acts or
conduct of the accused singly or cumulatively were of such
formidable and compelling nature as may lead to
commission of suicide. 9. Abetment necessarily means some active
suggestion or support to the commission of offence. The
word "instigate" found in Section 107 IPC means to urge
forward, provoke, incite, or encourage to do an act and a
person is said to instigate another when he actively
suggests or stimulates him to the act by any means direct or
indirect whether it takes the form of express solicitation or
hints instigation or encouragement. It is not necessary that
the instigation should be by words, it may also be by
conduct. Direct evidence of instigation is not necessary and
in a given case, it can also be deduced from the
circumstances. 10. In order to succeed to the charge under Section
498-A , prosecution is required to prove that accused
subjected the deceased to cruelty, which has been defined
to mean willful conduct which is of such a nature that it is
likely to drive the woman to commit suicide or cause
grievous injury or danger to her life or health or harassment FIR No. 317/10 Page 10 of 25 is with a view to coerce her or any person related to her to
meet any unlawful demand for any property or valuable
security or is on account of failure by her or any person
related to her to meet such demand. The expression
"cruelty" takes within its sweep both mental as well as
physical agony and torture. 11. The concept of cruelty varies from place to place
and individuals to individuals and also according to social
and economic status of the person involved. Cruelty
postulates such a treatment as would cause a reasonable
apprehension in the mind of the wife that her living with the
husband will be harmful and injurious to her life. Therefore,
to decide the question of cruelty, the relevant factors are the
matrimonial relationship between the husband and the wife,
their cultural and temperamental status in life, state of their
health and their interaction in daily life which dominates the
aspect of cruelty. The word "harassment" has not been
defined in Section 498-A IPC, but dictionary meaning of the
word "harassment" is to subject someone to continuous
vexatious attack, questions, demands or other
unpleasantness. 12. In her testimony, PW-4 Smt. Manju, mother of
deceased Sapna deposed that Sapna got married with FIR No. 317/10 Page 11 of 25 accused about five years back and that after one year of the
marriage, Sapna and accused used to quarrel on small
matters. The accused and his mother used to harass Sapna.
Sapna was suffering from Arthritis. Accused and his family
did not take Sapna to any doctor for her treatment. She got
Sapna treated from Raghubir Nagar and she totally
recovered. Sapna returned to her matrimonial house two
days prior to her death after spending 20-25 days in her
house. She was happy when she left her house but on
Thursday, her son received a call from police that Sapna
had committed suicide. She stated that next day her
statement Exbt. PW-3/DX1 was recorded by the police. PW-
4 was declared hostile and was cross examined by the
learned APP. In the said cross examination, she admitted
that she had told the SDM in her statement that Sapna
committed suicide because accused did not keep her well
and did not get her proper treatment and also because of his
wrong behaviour. She admitted that she had spent about
Rs. 2 lacs in the marriage of Sapna and her husband had
given a loan of Rs. 1,50,000/- to accused so that he may
keep her daughter happy. She admitted that the same day
when Sapna reached her matrimonial house, she told her on
telephone that accused and her mother in law were
harassing her. However, she did not tell as to why they
were harassing her. She admits that her husband used to FIR No. 317/10 Page 12 of 25 ask the accused to keep Sapna well but he did not listen to
him. 13. The FIR of this case was registered on the
statement Exbt. PW-3/DX1 recorded by the SDM. In the
said statement, there is no allegation whatsoever about any
dowry demand or cruelty on the part of the accused. The
only allegation in the FIR is that Sapna committed suicide
because accused was not getting her treatment and was not
looking after her properly and because of his bad behaviour.
Thus, the testimony of PW-4 that Sapna and accused used
to quarrel on small matters is an improvement. No specific
instance of quarrel has been given. The cause for quarrel is
also not stated. The allegations of quarrel are vague. Be as
it may, the small quarrels do take place between the
husband and wife in every household and that by itself is not
sufficient to hold the accused guilty for abetment of suicide
by his wife. 14. PW-5 Rajbir, father of deceased Sapna, stated that
Sapna had never told him that she was not kept well by
accused or his family and he does not know why she
committed suicide. He was also declared hostile and
subjected to cross examination. In the said cross
examination, he admitted that accused used to harass his FIR No. 317/10 Page 13 of 25 daughter immediately after their marriage. He admitted that
accused did not get her treatment for her ailments and his
wife got Sapna treated for about one month. He admitted
that next day when Sapna went away from their house, she
called his wife on phone and told that accused was
harassing her and her mother in law was not speaking with
her and was taunting her. However, he denied that
thereafter he talked with accused asking him not to harass
his daughter and behave properly. He denied having told the
police that his daughter committed suicide due to her
harassment by the accused. 15. PW-4 and PW-5 admitted in cross examination
about the telephone call made by Sapna from her
matrimonial home to tell that accused and her mother in law
were harassing her but this is by way of admission of
suggestion put in cross examination by the learned APP.
The witnesses did not depose about the same at their own
in their examination in chief. This fact also does not find any
mention in the First Information Report lodged by PW-4. No
call detail record has been obtained to verify whether any
such telephone call was made by deceased to her mother
as alleged. Therefore the averment that Sapna made any
such call complaining her harassment by the accused and
her mother in law by way of admission of suggestions in the FIR No. 317/10 Page 14 of 25 cross examination conducted by the learned APP, does not
inspire confidence and such evidence is therefore excluded
from consideration. In cross examination by the defence,
PW-5 again reiterated that he cannot tell the reason why
Sapna committed suicide. Thus, PW-5 has not supported
the prosecution case. PW-9 Chhotey Lal is the other
material witness on whose testimony the prosecution is
relying. His testimony that after about one and a half years
of marriage, Sapna came at his house and told that accused
used to ill-treat her and he counselled her not to get
perturbed on small matters as they happen in every family,
is an improvement over his statement Mark PW-9/DA made
to the police. He was confronted with his previous statement
where this fact is not recorded. Similarly, his testimony that
once Rajbir asked him what he should do and that he told
him that it was Sapna's family matter and everything would
get allright, is also an improvement over his previous
statement. These are material improvements from the
statement given before the police. PW-9 was cross
examined by the learned APP and in the said cross
examination, he admitted that Rajbir used to tell him that as
and when Sapna used to fall ill, accused did not get her
medically treated properly. This is highly improbable
because Rajbir himself has deposed that Sapna had never
told him that she was not kept well by the accused or his FIR No. 317/10 Page 15 of 25 family. PW-9 has also not elaborated as to what is meant by
ill-treatment of Sapna. He did not give any specific instance
of ill-treatment and also did not tell about the date and
month of such ill-treatment. Thus, the testimony of PW-9
Chhotey Lal is also of no use. 16. It has been argued by the learned APP that
accused was given a loan of Rs. 1,50,000/- by the parents
of the deceased so that their daughter may be kept happy
by the accused. Again, this fact is not stated either by PW-4
or PW-5 in their examination in chief but admitted by way of
suggestions in the cross examination of learned APP. No
proof of payment of Rs. 1,50,000/- has been produced. In
cross examination, PW-4 states that the payment was made
in three installments, the first installment being of Rs.
75,000/-, the second installment was of Rs. 50,000/- and the
third was of Rs. 25,000/- but PW-5 stated that the first
installment was of Rs. 50,000/-, second of Rs. 25,000/- and
the third of Rs. 75,000/-. Thus, there is contradiction with
regard to the instalment amount. Assuming for the sake of
arguments that Rs. 1,50,000/- was paid as loan by the
parents of the deceased to the accused, such payment
cannot be regarded as the payment made for satisfying the
dowry demand of accused. The demand of money on
account of some financial stringency or for meeting some FIR No. 317/10 Page 16 of 25 urgent domestic expenses as loan cannot be termed as
"demand for dowry" as the said word is normally
understood. 17. PW-4 deposed that Sapna was suffering from
Arthritis (Gathiya). In cross examination, she admitted that
her daughter obtained treatment from Bimla Devi Hospital,
Mayur Vihar Phase-II. She stated that she gave the money
for the payment of the bill. However, she did not produce
any proof of payment of the bill. In his cross examination,
accused produced the Record Clerk from Bimla Devi
Hospital to prove that Sapna was admitted in the hospital on
27.08.2010 and was discharged on 28.08.2010. It is
therefore not proved that accused was not getting requisite
treatment to Sapna. 18. The prosecution case is that Sapna committed
suicide because she was not kept well and was also not
provided proper treatment. PW-4 herself states that she had
got Sapna treated from Raghubir Nagar and she had totally
recovered and was very happy when she left her house two
days prior to her death. If Sapna had already recovered from
her ailment and was happy two days prior to her death, it
cannot be said that she committed suicide for the reasons of
lack of treatment. Moreover, she was not suffering from FIR No. 317/10 Page 17 of 25 such a serious ailment that she became so upset on not
being provided treatment and therefore decided to end her
life. Therefore, in my opinion even if accused did not get her
treatment for her Arthrital problem, the same could not have
been the reason for her suicide. 19. In the case of Mahender Singh and Anr. Vs.
State of MP 1995 Supp (3) SCC 731, the Hon'ble Supreme
Court held that in the case of alleged abetment of suicide,
there must be proof of direct or indirect acts of incitements
to the commission of suicide and the mere fact that the
husband treated the deceased wife cruelty is not enough. In Amalendu Pal @ Jhantu Vs. State of West Bengal Crl .
Appeal No. 2091 of 2009, decided on 11.11.2009, the
Hon'ble Supreme Court, inter alia, observed as under:- 20. In State of West Bengal Vs. Orilal Jaiswal AIR
1994 SC 1418, the Apex Court observed that the courts
should be entirely careful in assessing the facts &
circumstances of each case and the evidence adduced in
the trial for the purpose of finding whether the cruelty meted
out to the victim had in fact induced her to end her life by
committing suicide. If it transpires to the court that victim
committing suicide was hypersensitive to ordinary
petulance, discord or difference in domestic life common to
the society to which the victim belonged and such petulance
discord and differences were not expected to induce a
similarly circumstanced individual in a given society to
commit suicide, the conscience of the court should not be
satisfied for basing a finding that the accused charged of
abetting the offence of suicide should be found guilty. 21. In the case of Swamy Prahaladdas Vs. State of
MP 1995 SCC (Cri) 943, appellant was charged for an
offence under Section 306 IPC on the ground that appellant
during the quarrel is said to have remarked to the deceased
"to go and die." The Hon'ble Supreme Court was of the view
that mere words uttered by the accused to the deceased "to FIR No. 317/10 Page 20 of 25 go and die" were not even prima facie enough to instigate
the deceased to commit suicide. In the case of Mahendra
Singh Vs. State of MP 1995 SCC (Cri) 1157, the appellant
was charged for an offence under Section 306 IPC basically
based on dying declaration of the deceased, which reads as
under :- Hon'ble Supreme Court considering the definition
of "abetment" under Section 107 IPC, held that the charge
and conviction of the appellant for an offence under Section
306 is not sustainable merely on the allegation of
harassment of the deceased. The Court further held that
neither of the ingredients of abetment are attracted on the
statement of the deceased. In the case of Ramesh Kumar
Vs. State of Chhattisgarh (2001) 9 SCC 618, the Hon'ble
Court was considering the charge framed and the conviction
for an offence under Section 306 IPC on the basis of dying
declaration recorded by an Executive Magistrate, in which
she had stated that previously there had been quarrel FIR No. 317/10 Page 21 of 25 between the deceased and her husband and on the day of
occurrence, she had a quarrel with her husband who had
said that she could go wherever she wanted to go and that
thereafter she had poured kerosene on herself and had set
herself on fire. Acquitting the accused, the court held that: 22. In the case of Sanju @ Sanjay Singh Sengar Vs.
State of MP 2002 SC (Cri) 1141, there used to be quarrel
between the accused and the deceased. Accused told the
deceased "to go and die." It was observed that such
utterance itself would not constitute the ingredients of FIR No. 317/10 Page 22 of 25 instigation. It was held that the presence of mens rea is the
necessary concomitant for instigation. In the said case, the
alleged words were said to have been told to the deceased
on 25.07.1998 and the deceased was found hanging on
28.07.1998. The Hon'ble Court held that assuming the
deceased had taken the abusive language seriously, he had
enough time in between to think over and reflect and,
therefore, it cannot be said that the abusive language, which
had been used by the appellant on 25.07.1998 drove the
deceased to commit suicide. It was held that suicide by the
deceased on 27.07.1998 is not proximate to the abusive
language uttered by the appellant on 25.07.1998. The fact
that deceased committed suicide on 27.07.1998 would itself
clearly point out that it is not the direct result of the quarrel
taken place on 25.07.1998 when it is alleged that the
appellant had used the abusive language and also told the
deceased to go and die. 23. If the cruelty by itself is established and the fact of
suicide is also established, it would not be sufficient to bring
home the guilt of committing cruelty as defined in Clause (a)
of the explanation. A reasonable nexus has to be
established between the cruelty and the suicide in order to
make good the offence of cruelty. The cruelty established
has to be of such a gravity as is likely to drive a woman to FIR No. 317/10 Page 23 of 25 commit suicide. If suicide is established, it is further to be
established that it was occasioned on account of cruelty
which was of sufficient gravity so as to lead a reasonable
person placed in similar circumstances to commit suicide. 24. Merely because there used to be quarrel between
the accused and his wife on small matters, it cannot be held
that accused treated Sapna with cruelty or that the cruelty
was of such a gravity so as to drive Sapna to commit
suicide. 25. It has come in evidence that deceased has died
within seven years of her marriage with accused Ramesh.
The learned APP has argued that there is a presumption of
abetment of suicide by her husband under Section 113-A of
the Evidence Act. Section 113-A provides that when a
woman commits suicide within seven years of her marriage,
if it is shown that her husband had subjected her to cruelty,
then the court may presume having regard to all other
circumstances of the case that such suicide has been
abetted by her husband. The presumption of abetment of
suicide can be drawn only when the prosecution has
discharged the initial onus of proving cruelty. As discussed,
the allegations of cruelty are vague and not substantiated.
No specific incidents of cruelty have come in evidence. Prosecution has therefore failed to prove the initial onus of
proving the cruelty committed by accused upon Sapna and
therefore the presumption under Section 113-A cannot be
drawn. 26. Viewed from the aforesaid circumstances, the
ingredients of "abetment" are totally absent in the present
case and resort to extreme step of ending the life on the
basis of allegations made in the FIR was not warranted on
the part of any person of ordinary petulance. Taking the
totality of material on record and the facts and
circumstances of the case into consideration, it will lead to
irresistible conclusion that it is the deceased and she alone
and none else who was responsible for her death.
Prosecution has thus failed to prove its case against the
accused. He is accordingly acquitted. His bail bond is
cancelled. He is directed to furnish a bond in the sum of Rs.
20,000/- with surety of the like amount for a period of six
months under Section 437-A Cr. PC. File be consigned to
Record Room. (RAVINDER DUDEJA)
 ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE:FTC/E-COURT/KKD/DELHI.
ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT ON 30.01.2013.