1. By way of the present petition under Section 482 of Code of
Criminal Procedure (hereinafter referred to as „ Cr.P.C .‟), the petitioner
calls in question the order dated 21.03.2014 passed by learned Special
Judge-03 (PC Act), New Delhi and order on charge dated 29.03.2014
for the offence under Section 109 of Indian Penal Code (hereinafter
referred to as „ IPC ‟) read with Section 13(2) and Section 13(1)(e) of
the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (hereinafter referred to as „the
Act‟). 2. Shorn off unnecessary details, the facts of the case are that on
06.05.2005, on the basis of source information an FIR bearing RC
No.3A/2005/CBI/ACU-VI/New Delhi was registered against Mr. Badri
Prasad Meena, Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeal)-13, Income Tax Crl. M.C. No.1868/2014 Page 1 of 14 Department, New Delhi and Mr. R.D. Meena under Section 109 IPC
and Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(e) of the Act on the
allegations, inter alia, that Mr. Badri Prasad Meena (accused No.1)
working as Commissioner of Income Tax, New Delhi has amassed his
assets disproportionate to his known sources of income to the tune of
Rs.74,67,678/- (Rupees Seventy four lakhs sixty seven thousand six
hundred and seventy eight) in his name as well as in the name of his
wife and close relatives during the period September 1980 to January,
2000 and he could not satisfactorily account for the same. It is also
alleged that during the said period Mr. B.P. Meena (accused No.1) out
of his ill gotten wealth acquired a large number of benami assets in the
name of his younger brother Mr. R.D. Meena (accused No.2) and his
wife Smt. Bhagwati Devi Meena (accused No.3). Mr. R.D. Meena did
not have sufficient means to acquire the assets in his name or in the
name of his wife prior to his becoming a Panchayat Samiti Pradhan in
February, 2000. Most of the assets in the name of Mr. R.D. Meena and
his wife were acquired by Mr. B.P. Meena with the help of some
people in Mumbai, Delhi and Jaipur who came in contact with him
because of his official position. Thereafter, searches were conducted at
the official as well as residential premises of Mr. B.P. Meena. During
investigation it was also revealed that accused No.1, Mr. B.P. Meena
was found in possession of disproportionate assets to the tune of
Rs.58,74,273/- (Rupees Fifty eight lakhs seventy four thousand two
hundred and seventy three) in his name and in the name of his family
members. 3. During investigation it was revealed that Mr. R.K. Jain
(petitioner) actively aided and abetted Mr. B.P. Meena in the
acquisition of properties at D-75, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi in the
name of Smt. Bhagwati Devi Meena and Mr. Raghuvar Dayal Meena
as well as property No.2/11, Sarvapriya Vihar, New Delhi in the name
of Mr. Raghuvar Dayal Meena. The petitioner Mr. R.K. Jain
transferred the funds to the bank accounts of Mr. R.D. Meena (accused
No.2) through his company M/s. South Delhi Apartment in order to aid
Mr. B.P. Meena in falsely showing returning on loans created to
finance, purchase/ acquisition of property at 2/11, Sarvapriya Vihar,
New Delhi. It was also revealed that Mr. Rajesh Hira Lal Shah
actively aided and abetted Mr. B.P. Meena in acquisition of property at
New Delhi in the name of Mr. R.D. Meena by accepting Rs.8,50,000/-
(Rupees Eight lakhs fifty thousand) in cash in 1997 from Mr. B.P.
Meena and arranged for drafts in the name of Mr. R.D. Meena and
falsely shown them as loans in his income tax returns. He also actively
aided and abetted Mr. B.P. Meena in acquisition of properties at
Rajgarh in the name of Mr. R.D. Meena and his wife Smt. Bhagwati
Devi Meena by accepting Rs.10,00,000/- (Rupees Ten lakhs) in cash in
1997 from Mr. B.P. Meena and arranged for drafts in the name of Mr.
R.D. Meena. 4. The sanction for prosecution against accused No.1 Mr. B.P.
Meena was obtained from the competent authority. On completion of
investigation charge-sheet was filed. 5. Vide order dated 21.03.2014 learned trial court found a prima
facie case for the offence punishable under Section 109 IPC read with Crl. M.C. No.1868/2014 Page 3 of 14 Section 13(2) and 13(1)(e) of the Act. Accordingly, charges were
framed on 29.03.2014. 6. Feeling aggrieved by the said order and the charges, the
petitioner has preferred the present petition. 7. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner contended that merely
giving a temporary loan of Rs.6,50,000/- (Rupees Six lakhs fifty
thousand) by the petitioner to the co-accused Mr. R.D. Meena does not
fall within the ambit of Section 109 IPC. There is no material on
record to show that the petitioner aided and abetted the accused Mr.
B.P. Meena or his family members to accumulate alleged
disproportionate assets. 8. Relying upon judgment in „Dilawar Balu Kurane vs. State of
Maharashtra‟ , (2002) 2 SCC 135; „Union of India vs. Prafulla
Kumar Samal‟, (1972) 2 SCC 392 and „Soma Chakravarty vs.
State‟, (2007) 5 SCC 403, learned senior counsel for the petitioner
urged that the offence under Section 109 IPC read with Section 13(2) and 13(1)(e) of the Act is not made out. 9. Per contra, K. Raghavacharyulu, Advocate appearing for the
respondent/ CBI, at the outset, raised a preliminary objection that the
present petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. is misconceived. 10. It was also contended on behalf of respondent/ CBI that the
petitioner aided and abetted co-accused Mr. B.P. Meena in acquisition
of the respective properties. The petitioner continued to manage and
control the property at D-75, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi even after
selling it to Mr. B.P. Meena in August in the name of Mr. R.D. Meena Crl. M.C. No.1868/2014 Page 4 of 14 and Ms. Bhagwati Devi in two parts and sale consideration was
received in cash. He was putting the property on rent, collecting the
rent amount and depositing the same in the bank accounts of Mr. B.P.
Meena in the name of Mr. R.D. Meena. There is sufficient evidence on
record to prove that the petitioner is liable for the offence punishable
under Sections 109 IPC read with Section 13(2) and 13(1)(e) of the
Act. 11. I have bestowed my anxious thoughts to the submissions of
learned senior counsel for the petitioner and learned counsel for CBI
and have also gone through the material on record. 12. Before examining the facts of the present case it would be
appropriate to consider the scope of interference of Section 482 of
Cr.P.C. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court of India in „Dhanalakshmi v. R.
Prasanna Kumar‟ , (1990) Supp. SCC 686, observed as under: - 13. Further in „Amit Kapoor vs. Ramesh Chander & Anr. ',
(2012) 9 SCC 460, Hon‟ble Supreme Court of India while dealing with
the issue of interference at the stage of charge in a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. observed as under:- with no "element of criminality" and does not satisfy the
 basic ingredients of a criminal offence, the court may be
 justified in quashing the charge. Even in such cases, the
 court would not embark upon the critical analysis of the
 evidence. 27.9. Another very significant caution that the courts
 have to observe is that it cannot examine the facts,
 evidence and materials on record to determine whether
 there is sufficient material on the basis of which the case
 would end in a conviction; the court is concerned
 primarily with the allegations taken as a whole whether
 they will constitute an offence and, if so, is it an abuse of
 the process of court leading to injustice. 27.10. It is neither necessary nor is the court called upon
 to hold a full-fledged enquiry or to appreciate evidence
 collected by the investigating agencies to find out
 whether it is a case of acquittal or conviction.
 27.11. Where allegations give rise to a civil claim and
 also amount to an offence, merely because a civil claim is
 maintainable, does not mean that a criminal complaint
 cannot be maintained. 27.12. In exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 228
 and/or under Section 482, the Court cannot take into
 consideration external materials given by an accused for
 reaching the conclusion that no offence was disclosed or
 that there was possibility of his acquittal. The Court has
 to consider the record and documents annexed therewith
 by the prosecution. 27.13. Quashing of a charge is an exception to the rule of
 continuous prosecution. Where the offence is even
 broadly satisfied, the Court should be more inclined to
 permit continuation of prosecution rather than its
 quashing at that initial stage. The Court is not expected to
 marshal the records with a view to decide admissibility
 and reliability of the documents or records but is an
 opinion formed prima facie. 27.14. Where the charge-sheet, report under Section
 173(2) of the Code, suffers from fundamental legal
 defects, the Court may be well within its jurisdiction to
 frame a charge. 27.15. Coupled with any or all of the above, where the
 Court finds that it would amount to abuse of process of
 the Code or that the interest of justice favours, otherwise
 it may quash the charge. The power is to be exercised ex
 debito justitiae i.e. to do real and substantial justice for
 administration of which alone, the courts exist.
 27.16. These are the principles which individually and
 preferably cumulatively (one or more) be taken into
 consideration as precepts to exercise of extraordinary and
 wide plenitude and jurisdiction under Section 482 of the
 Code by the High Court. Where the factual foundation
 for an offence has been laid down, the courts should be
 reluctant and should not hasten to quash the proceedings
 even on the premise that one or two ingredients have not
 been stated or do not appear to be satisfied if there is
 substantial compliance with the requirements of the
 offence." 14. While exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. this
Court would have ordinarily embarked an enquiry in order to
determine whether the evidence in question is reliable or not or
whether on a reasonable appreciation of it acquisition would be
sustained or not. That is the function of the trial court. It is true that
Court should be circumspect and judicious in misusing discretion and Crl. M.C. No.1868/2014 Page 9 of 14 should take all relevant facts and circumstances into consideration.
Though, the powers under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. are wide, however,
such powers require care and caution in its exercise. The interference
must be on sound principles and the inherent powers should not be
exercised to stifle a legitimate prosecution. The above mentioned
judgments clearly reflect that inherent powers while quashing criminal
proceedings should be exercised sparingly and with circumspection.
The framing of charge is an exercise of jurisdiction by the trial court in
terms of Section 228 of Cr.P.C., unless the accused is discharged under Section 227 of Cr.P.C. Once the ingredients of this section with which
the accused is charged are established, the Court would be well within
its right in presuming that there is a ground to proceed against the
accused and frame charge accordingly. The satisfaction of the Court in
respect of ingredients of an offence and facts leading to an offence is a
sine qua non for exercise of such jurisdiction. This presumption is not
a presumption of law as such. 15. Section 120A of the IPC defines criminal conspiracy as under: - Provided that no agreement except an agreement to
 commit an offense shall amount to a criminal conspiracy
 unless some act besides the agreement is done by one or
 more parties to such agreement in pursuance thereof." 16. The conspiracy requires an act (actus reus) and an
accompanying mental state (mens rea). The agreement constitutes that
act and the function to achieve the unlawful objective of that
agreement constitutes the required mental state. All conspirators are
liable for crimes committed in furtherance of the conspiracy by any
member of the group. The offence of conspiracy is not a substantive
crime, it also serves as a basis for holding one person liable for the
crime of others. One who enters into a conspiracy is liable for every
reasonable foreseeable act committed by every other member of this
conspiracy in furtherance of its objective, whether or not he knew all
about the crime or aided in their commission. All the conspirators
must not know each and every detail of the conspiracy so long as they
are conspirators. Thus, conspirators are liable on an agency theory for
statements of co-conspirators, just as they are for the overt acts and
crimes committed by their conferrers. 17. Interpreting the provisions of Section 120A and 120B of IPC,
the Apex Court in case of „Yash Pal Mittal vs. State of Punjab‟ ,
(1977) 4 SCC 540, observed as under: - We are in respectful agreement with the above
 observations with regard to the offence of criminal
 conspiracy." 18. At the stage of consideration on charge, the Court is not required
to assess, evaluate and weigh the prosecution evidence as it is done at
the final stage. It is not open to shift and weigh the evidence as if the
Court is conducting a mini trial and charge can be framed on the basis
of grave suspicion and the evidential value of the statement recorded
during the course of investigation is required to be seen at the time of
trial. At this stage the Court is not required to meticulously go into the
material placed on record by the prosecution and is only to consider
whether prima facie their exists sufficient ground to proceed against
the accused. A roving and phishing inquiry is impermissible and it is
sufficient if the prosecution is able to show prima facie the
commission of offence and the involvement of the charged person. It
is immaterial whether the case is based on direct or circumstantial
evidence and the Court is only required to see if prima facie there is
sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused. 19. Some connecting link or connecting factor somewhere would be
enough for framing of charge since framing of charge and to establish
the charge of conspiracy cannot possibly be placed at par. Conspiracy
is generally a matter of inference ( „Hardeo Singh vs. State of Bihar
& Ors.‟ , 2000 Crl. L.J. 2978). 20. In the instant case, the basic allegations against the petitioner are
that the petitioner aided and abetted Mr. B.P. Meena (co-accused) by
transferring funds in the account of co-accused Mr. R.D. Meena
through his company M/s. South Delhi Apartment, by falsely showing
return of loans, create finance, purchase/acquisition of properties and
in acquisition of property No.D-75, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi in the
name of wife of Mr. B.P. Meena, Smt. Bhagwati Devi Meena and his
brother Mr. Raghuvar Dayal Meena as well as property No.2/1,
Sarvapriya Vihar, New Delhi in the name of his brother Mr. Raghuvar
Dayal Meena. 21. Considering the above legal propositions, it can be said that once
a prima facie case is made out, court cannot delve into the merits of the
case for framing of charges. At this stage, it cannot be said that the
allegations are ex facie perverse, untenable or malicious. 22. There is no illegality and infirmity in the impugned order passed
by the learned trial court. . 23. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, the petition is without
any merit, same is liable to be dismissed and the same is hereby
dismissed. The application is dismissed as infructuous. (VED PRAKASH VAISH)
 JUDGE
JANUARY 8th, 2015
hs Crl. M.C. No.1868/2014 Page 14 of 14