This is a petition that has been filed under Section 438 Cr.P.C.

for grant of anticipatory bail to the petitioner in case FIR No.181 dated

25.12.2021 under Sections 419 , 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B IPC

registered at Police Station Navi Baradari, District Jalandhar. In brief, the facts are that the aforesaid FIR was registered on

the ground that employees of IDFC First Bank Ltd. had committed a fraud

by giving 34 personal loans amounting Rs.1.93 lakhs based on forged

employment credentials. None of the persons to whom loans had been

advanced were government employees. On lodging of the FIR,

investigation was done and it came forth that three employees of the bank

namely Joy Thomas, Narain Jha and Aman Kumar (Sales Managers) were

instrumental in disbursing loans to persons showing them to be officials of

different government departments whereas the said persons were not

employed in any of the departments and did not have any salary accounts. 1 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 04-02-2022 22:32:29 ::: CRM-M No.4375 of 2022 (O&M) -2- Statement of one Balvir Kaur was also recorded (to whom the loan had been

disbursed) wherein she categorically stated that Praveen Kumar, a property

dealer had represented to her that he could arrange an amount of

Rs.5,75,000/- on commission basis. The said Praveen Kumar sent Pratham

and Deepak (petitioner herein) to get her photographs taken. They prepared

her ATM card and get five blank cheques from her. After the loan was

sanctioned to the tune of Rs.5,49,000/-, they encashed an amount of

Rs.2,25,000/- through the blank cheque. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner herein

vehemently argues that the petitioner has been falsely implicated in the said

FIR. He, in fact, does not know Balvir Kaur nor was instrumental in getting

her photographs taken and blank cheques signed from her. It is also

contended that though he knows Praveen Kumar, he has no dealings with

him nor with any of the three bank officials, who were instrumental in

disbursing the loan. He is ready to join investigation and also making good

the amount of Rs.2,25,000/- alleged to have been taken by him. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent-State

opposes grant of anticipatory bail to the petitioner by contending that

custodial interrogation of the petitioner would be required to unearth the

modus operandi as to how the alleged forged documents were prepared on

the basis of which loans were obtained by the petitioner in connivance with

three officials of the bank named in the FIR. I have heard learned counsel for the parties. The allegations

levelled against the petitioner are serious in nature where public money is

being siphoned into personal accounts of persons like petitioner herein in

the shape of commission being taken for facilitating loan facilities to the

 2 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 04-02-2022 22:32:29 ::: CRM-M No.4375 of 2022 (O&M) -3- individuals in connivance with bank officials. The nexus between persons

like the petitioner herein and the bank officials, who are instrumental in

facilitating the loan consideration to the individuals on the basis of forged

documents is required to be bursted. It seems a financial scam being run by

an organized group in connivance with bank officials and therefore, in order

to unearth its ramifications, custodial interrogation of the petitioner would

be required. No ground is made out to grant anticipatory bail to the

petitioner. Consequently, the instant petition stands dismissed.