1. This is an appeal filed by the wife from the decision of ?he Additional Judge, City Civil Court, Madras, confirming he decree of he trial Court dissolving the marriage between he appellant and the respondent on the ground that he appellant was incurably of unsound mind for a continuous period of three years immediately preceding the presentation of the petition for divorce. The husband-respondent is employed as an Appraiser in the Customs Department. He married the appellant in February, 1949, when hey were respectively aged about 22 and 16. There are five children of he marriage, a boy and four girls. The boy is the eldest and is aged about 15 and the youngest girl is aged 7. The last child was born in January, 1959, and at hat time the appellant was sterilised. Therefore, there is no prospect of the appellant bringing forth any more child. Even in the middle of 1951, the appellant appears to have showed signs of mental ailment. That necessitated her being treated by Dr. Dairiam, Superintendent of the Mental Hospital, Madras. She was also treated by other doctors. But hat treatment did not give the desired relief. The appellant was treated at he Christian Medical College Hospital, Vellore, from September, 1961 to December, 1965. The doctor who treated her was Dr. Rose Chack , who has given evidence on behalf of the respondent as P.W. 1. Throughout the period the appellant was not treated as an in-patient. For some time she was treated as an i -patient and for some time she was treated as an out-patient. Exhibit A-1 is he history sheet maintained in that hospital. That contains all the details of he treatment, including prior history, the treatment given from time to time , he condition of the patient, etc. The disease was diagnosed to be Paranoid Schizophrenia. 2. In support of his complaint that his wife was insane, the respondent-husband spoke of some incidents and let in evidence by way of corroboration. Both the Courts below have accepted the evidence with regard to three incidents. In the year 1959, he respondent celebrated the house-warming ceremony (grahapravesam) of a house built in Alagappa Nagar. The evidence establishes that at the time of the function, the appellant poured hot coffee on the head of he respondent. In October, 1962, the respondent's father passed away. When mourning was being observed, the appellant is said to have picked up a quarrel with her mother-in-law and thrown an ever-silver utensil at her. In January, 1964, the marriage of the respondent's younger brother took place, and according to the custom, the appellant was to participate in some of he ceremonies along with the respondent. But she did not attend the function. Both the Courts below have accepted the respondent's case with regard to these incidents. Wish regard to the incident when the appellant was said to have thrown an ever-silver utensil at her mother-in law, the respondent relied on Exhibit A-5, which is a letter written to him by the appellant's brother, R.W. 3, in which R.W. 3 has indirectly admitted that the appellant was not of sound mind. But these incidents by themselves are not sufficient to prove the unsoundness mind, much less incurable unsoundness of mind for a continuous period of three years prior to the presentation of the petition. 3. On the side of the respondent-husband, two doctors, gave evidence, and they are Dr. Rose Chacko, P.W. 1, Psychiatric specialist working in the Christian Medical College Hospital, Vellore, where the appellant underwent treatment, and Dr. Bhushanam, P.W. 6, Professor of Mental Diseases in the Stanlay Hospital, Madras, and Physician in the Government Mental Hospital, Madras. The appellant examined Dr. Ganesan R.W. 4, Civil Assistant Surgeon, Government Mental Hospital, Madras P.W. 6 and R.W. 4 had no occasion to examine the appellant. They gave their respective opinions based upon a study of the details found in the case sheet, Exhibit A-1. On examining the details of the treatment, P.W. 6 gave his opinion that the chances of recovery were extremely impossible and that the appellant would not be in a position to share the responsibility of household life. He was willing to examine the appellant, but the appellant did not submit herself to an examination. P.W. 6 is a specialist whereas R.W. 4 is not a specialist, and has not even obtained a Diploma in mental sciences. His opinion is that paranoid schizophrenia is curable. He however, admits that electric shock treatment would be given only in advanced mental cases and that inasmuch as the appellant had been given 63 shocks, he had to concede that the appellant should have been an extreme mental case. Inasmuch as the opinions of these two doctors are based upon mere examination of the records, I think it is better to act upon the evidence of P.W. 1 the specialist under whom the appellant admittedly underwent treatment at Vellore. The evidence of P.W. 1 is hat she found he appellant suffering from mental illness, that the mental illness could not be completely cured in spite of the treatment given for five years and that the illness was paranoid schizophrenia. She, however, admits in cross-examination that some of the cases of schizophrenia treated by her had been cured. Even at the time when P.W. 1 gave evidence she was giving treatment to the appellant. On the basis of what she observed even at the time of giving evidence P.W. 1 said that the appellant had not been completely cured and that some of the initial ailments for which the appellant came to her for treatment in 1961 still persisted. She also said hat 'he appellant can look after herself, but some of she old mental ailments would still persist. The sum and substance of her evidence is that hough paranoid schizophrenia is a curable disease, the appellant could not be cured completely in spite of treatment for five years. [After discussing the evidence His Lordship proceeded : ] 4. On the evidence, she learned Counsel for the appellant contended that the findings of the Courts below that the appellant was of incurable unsound mind for a continuous period of three years prior to (he presentation of he petition is not warranted and that at the worst against the appellant it could only be said that she appellant is a person of weak intellect. It is also contended on behalf of the appellant that it has not been proved hat he disease from which the appellant is suffering is incurable or that the unsoundness of mind was for a continuous period of three years immediately before the presentation of the petition. 5. In Stroud's Judicial Dictionary at page 2141, the distinction between unsoundness of mind and lunacy or mania is brought out in the following terms: 6. In the same dictionary at page 1120, the ' lunatic ' is defined: 7. It is indisputable in this case that the disease from which the appellant has been suffering is paranoid schizophrenia. In Clinical Psychiatry (second edition) by W. Mayer Gross at page 230, the term " schizophrenia " is defined as: 8. In Modi's Medical Jurisprudence (1963 edition) the relevant passage is to this effect: 9. That persons suffering from schizophrenia are also prone to commit serious crimes like murders is illustrated in Taylor's Principles and Practice of Medical Jurisprudence (11th edition) Volume I at page 587, wherein it is observed: 10. In the light of the foregoing, we may examine what the respondent husband seeking divorce under Section 13 (1) (iii) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, has to establish. That section reads thus: The framers of this provision have taken into account the provisions of the English Matrimonial Causes Act, 1950. The English Act of 1950 reproduced what was contained in the Matrimonial Causes Act, 1937, and has been reproduced in the Matrimonial Causes Act, 1965. According to the English Act, a petition for divorce can be presented on the ground that the respondent is incurably of unsound mind and has been continuously under care and treatment for a period of at least five years immediately preceding the presentation of the petition. Inasmuch as important phrases found in he Indian enactment have been taken from the English enactment, English decisions would be of valuable guide in interpreting the Indian enactment, as Indian case law on the Indian enactment is not much. It would be seen from a perusal of the Indian enactment that three essential things should be established by the party seeking divorce, and they are (1) that the other party to the marriage is of unsound mind; (2) that the unsoundness of mind is incurable and (3) that the incurable unsound mind was there for a period of not less than three years immediately preceding the presentation of the petition for divorce. 11. In Swettenham v. Swettenham (1938) 3 A.E.R. 18 (sic) 185, the main question considered under the Matrimonial Causes Act, 1937, was about the distinction between "recovery" and " cure." The parties were married in 1878. Thereafter from time to time the wife was certified and recertified to be insane. She was, however, at large for considerable periods, one period extending to nine years, but she had been continuously ?detained for a period of 11 years immediately before the date of the hearing. The husband petitioned for divorce under the Matrimonial Causes Act, 1937, alleging that the wife was incurably of unsound mind and had been continuing under care and treatment for a period of five years. The wife denied that the was incurably of unsound mind. On a consideration of two important aspects, the Court held that the wife was incurably of unsound mind. One was that in spite of two considerable periods, during which the wife had been restored to mental health, she continued to be insane. The other was that the wife was of advanced age. At page 185, the relevant passage is this: 12. Charlton v. Charlton (1955) 1 W.L.R. 675, on which Mr. Venkatarama Ayyar, appearing for the appellant relied, is not of much help. The wife in that case was admitted in an institution for mental treatment in February, 1947 in pursuance of a detention order under the Matrimonial Causes Act, 1950 for a period of six months. The order lapsed on the expiry of time and the patient was discharged. But she got herself re-admitted 12 days later as a voluntary patient and remained there continuously under care and treatment. In 1953, he husband petitioned for divorce on the ground that the wife was incurably of unsound mind and had been continuously under the care and treatment for a period of five years immediately preceding the petition. Confirming the order of dismissal of the petition by the trial Court, it was held in appeal that the period between discharge and re-admission on voluntary basis could not be regarded as negligible, and that the subsequent period of care and treatment on a voluntary basis did not follow " without any interval" the period during which the wife was detained pursuant to the order of detention. 13. Whysall v. Whysall (1959) 3 A.E.R. 369, is an important decision. That decision lays down the test to be applied in deciding the question whether a person is incurably of unsound mind. In that case also, as in the instant case, the disease was paranoid schizophrenia. The husband entered a mental hospital pursuant to a reception order in May, 1952 and remained there at the hospital even at the time of the hearing of the case. He underwent electro convulsive treatment, as in the instant case, without any lasting improvement of his condition, but showed much improvement as a result of the treatment with drugs. The evidence of three medical witnesses established that though there was no prospect of full clinical recovery, there was possibility of some degree of " social recovery ". It was also even possible that the husband might be able to be discharged from the hospital in about six months, if suitable living conditions could be found for him; but if he were discharged, he would still have to continue the treatment and drugs to maintain his recovery. In these circumstances, the wife presented a petition in February, 1958 for divorce on the ground that her husband was incurably of unsound mind within the meaning of Section 1 (1) (d) of the Matrimonial Causes Act, 1950. Having regard to the condition of the husband, the question was considered whether he could be held to be a person suffering from incurably of unsound mind. Dealing with this aspect, it is. observed at page 396: 14. At page 397 it is observed: 15. The decision in Chapman v. Chapman (1961) 1 W.L.R. 1481, on which Mr. Venkatarama Ayyar for the appellant relied, is not of much help. That was a case where the husband was suffering from paranoid schizophrenia. The evidence established that after the discharge from the hospital he was no longer subject to any reception order. He was no longer under any medical treatment or care. He was able substantially to control his condition by the taking of drugs. He was able to work and earn wages and was capable of securing work. He was normally living at a hostel without any special supervision or care. It was not established that he was incapable of managing himself and his affairs, bearing in mind that affairs must be held to include the problems of work, society and marriage. It was, therefore, held that the wife had failed to establish that her husband was incurably of unsound mind. 16. Coming to the Indian decisions Mr. Venkatarama Ayyar relied upon A. S. Mehta v. Vasumati , There , the husband applied for decree of nullity of the marriage or divorce. He alleged that he relied upon the representation made by the wife's father about the condition of the wife and went through the marriage, that after the marriage the respondent came to reside with him, that at that time he found that the wife's mental condition was defective and that she was insane and did not know how to lead a married life. On these allegations he said that as the wife's mental condition was incurable, he was entitled to a decree of mullity or in the alternative a decree of divorce. The trial Court held that the husband had failed to establish that the wife was either an idiot or lunatic at the time of the marriage or that her mental condition had not been disclosed at the time of the marriage. It was also held that the husband had failed to prove that the wife of unsound mind for the relevant period or that the mental condition was incurable. In this view, the trial Court dismissed the petition. In the appeal, it was contended that the evidence established the following facts; (1) that the wife did not know how to dress her clothes and she kept the buttons of her blouse open; (2) that though she was Brahmin she did not take bath daily; (3) that she did not distinguish between cereals and vegetables as she had stated that she did not know what use may be made of Mug and that chola was cooked after putting into water and that it was not eaten, but applied on the head; (4) that she had no control over the nature discharges as she passed urine and stools even in the kitchen; (5) that : she did not recognise persons and did not give welcome to the visit and she had no sense and recollection of places, roads, neighbours, etc., and (6) that she required to be helped. These circumstances were strongly relied upon in support of the contention that the wife was incurably of unsound mind. The learned Judge Mehta, J., if I may say so with respect, rightly rejected the contention, for, all that : was established by those circumstances even if they were taken as true was that the wife was subnormal in her mental capacity. But that was not sufficient to lead to the inference that the person was incurably of unsound mind. The evidence in that case established that the wife was slow of understanding and was not able to answer some questions, though she was able to answer some questions. On a consideration of the entire evidence, the learned Judge held that the wife was able to manage herself and all her affairs in her own simple way and was able to keep up with the obligations of marital life, though on some occasions she needed better instructions or advise. In conclusion, it was held that in any event, the mental defect was not of such a degree or extent which would make the wife incapable of managing herself and her affairs and there was no evidence whatsoever to show that the wife was suffering from any particular mental ailment. On facts, this decision, on which Mr. Venkatarama Ayyar very strongly relied, is distinguishable, for, in the instant case, it is established beyond doubt that the appellant has been suffering from paranoid schizophrenia. 17. The Punjab High Court in Sucha Singh v. Gurbachan Kaur (1965) 5 Cur. L.J. 417, on which Mr. Damodar Rao, appearing for the respondent relied, dealt with a case where the wife was suffering from schizophrenia as in the instance case. Though the trial Court, on the evidence, found that the wife was not of normal condition and was suffering from schizophrenia, still it refused to allow the husband's petition for divorce for the reason that the evidence did not establish that the respondent was insane. Reversing this decision it was held in appeal that the evidence was sufficient to establish that the wife was incurably of unsound mind for a period of three years immediately before the presentation of the petition. What weight should be given to the lucid intervals when the wife was able to talk well, was considered by the appellate Court and it was held that, according to the medical testimony of the witnesses, who gave evidence in that case, there could be lucid intervals in the condition of a person suffering from schizophrenia for weeks and even months and that, therefore, the fact that the person was able to give lucid answers during sometimes cannot mean that the person is not of unsound mind. 18. Mr. Venkatarama Ayyar for the appellant contended that in Matrimonial Causes the Court should insist on proof beyond reasonable doubt, that in the instant case the evidence does not establish beyond reasonable doubt that the appellant was suffering from incurable unsound mind for a continuous period of three years and that benefit of doubt should be given to the appellant. The proceeding in divorce proceeding is a civil proceeding and not a criminal proceeding. The : analogies and precedents of criminal law have no authority in the divorce Court which is a civil tribunal. But there has been a divergence of opinion in England on the question whether the same strict proof, proof beyond reasonable doubt, is required for a matrimonial cause as is required in a criminal offence. The House of Lords in Blyth v. Blyth L.R. (1966) A.C. 643, by a majority of three to two settled the controversy, but only about condonation, connivance and the like bars to relief, the standard laid down there for being preponderance of probability, not about the grounds for dissolution, adultery and the like, where satisfaction beyond reasonable doubt was necessary. But the Supreme Court has consistently taken the view that the standard of proof in a matrimonial cause in India is proof beyond reasonable doubt. In Bipinchandra Jaisinghai Shah v. Prabhavati (1957) S.C.J. 144 : (1956) S.C.R. 838 : A.I.R. 1957 S.C. 176, which is a case of divorce-at the instance of the husband on the ground of desertion of the wife for a continuous period of four years, the Supreme Court held that the plaintiff must prove the offence, beyond all reasonable doubt. In Earnist John Whi e v. Kathleen Olive Whi e which was a case of divorce on the ground of adultery, the Supreme Court pointed out that the standard of proof in divorce cases would be such that if the judge is satisfied beyond reasonable doubt as to the commission of the matrimonial offence, he would be satisfied within the meaning of Section 14 of the Indian Divorce Act, 1809. In Lachman Utamckand v. Meena , which was a case of judicial separation for desertion by the wife under Section 10(1)(a) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, the Supreme Court reiterated the view that it is settled law that the burden of proving desertion is on the petitioner and that he or she should establish it beyond reasonable doubt to the satisfaction of the Court. The same view was reiterated by the Supreme Court in Mahendra v. Sushila , It would, therefore, follow that the burden lies upon the respondent-husband to establish beyond reasonable doubt that the appellant, his wife, has been incurably of unsound mind for a continuous, period of not less than 3 years immediately prior to the presentation of the petition. 19. I now turn finally to consider the effect of the view which I have formed of the facts of the case in the light of the principles indicated above. The evidence of P.W. 1, taken along with the several facts recorded in Exhibit A-1, establishes the following. The appellant has been suffering from paranoid schizophrenia from 1961 and is not completely cured even now. She is lacking in volition and spontaneity. There has been deterioration and loss of her personality. She is incapable of meeting the normal incidents and problems of married life. She is demented and suffering from the residual scars of the mind due to the mental illness, even though she might have shown some improvement off and on as a result of heavy electro convulsive treatment (E.C.T.) and other drugs. She is lacking in activity and awarness and her memory has become poor, without reasonable prospect of restoration to its normal condition. She requires sympathetic supervision and care. There may be occasional lucid intervals when she may be co-operative or clean in her dress or can look after herself. But that is not sufficient to hold that here is a prospect of her return to normal life. Even if the condition obtaining during lucid intervals continues without break, which is not likely, it would enable the appellant to live only half-life. I am aware that a decision in favour of the husband will put an end to the martial tie of the couple. But that appears inevitable, as I am not prepared to misplace my sympathy in favour of the wife in he face of the satisfactory evidence which entitles the husband beyond reasonable doubt to the relief asked for, though the appellant is entitled to sympathies. I am afraid she cannot be helped. 20. I am satisfied on the evidence that both the Courts below were right in holding that the appellant has been incurably of unsound mind for a continuous period of not less than three years immediately preceding the presentation of the petition. In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed. In the circumstances, the parties will bear their own costs. Leave granted.