...................................................................................... On examination of the CDR, it is established
 that the mobile no. 9612517847 that was seized from the
 accused person have communicated with the mobile
 number 9191703131 which belongs to Sagolsem Bobby @
 Ahingcha of Kakwa Nameirakpam Leikai, the Commander
 of the Auxiliary Battalion of RPF/PLA." [16] The contents of the allegation made herein above are

the grounds for the dismissal of the writ petitioner/respondent.

Throughout the correspondence made from the SDPO (supra) to the

notes placed before the Committee of Advisors, thereafter the

Committee of Advisors after going through the file recommended for

dismissing the writ petitioner/respondent from service by resorting

to Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India, the Committee's

recommendation along with material placed before them was placed

 P a g e 24 | 103
 before the Hon'ble Chief Minister and finally to the Hon'ble

Governor. The Hon'ble Governor, while putting up the file, gave

approval by putting "may be approved", for taking the extreme

action for dismissal of the writ petitioner/respondent by taking

recourse to Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution.

[17] The minutes of the meeting of the Committee of

Advisors held on 24.04.2017 at 11:00 a.m. are extracted hereunder: ii. 2 live rounds of .32 ammn. iii. 5 live round of .38 ammn. 5. Moreover, he had visited Moreh and met members
 of terrorist organization to further their prejudicial activities.
 Investigation so far reveals that he is a professional criminal
 involved in various cases. He admitted that he disclosed
 about VIP/VVIP's movement to the UGs outfit."
and thereafter, taken a decision at para Nos. 6 to 9 and the same

are extracted hereunder: "6. That the gravity of the crime is such that its impact
 is debasing to the discipline moral of the forces and
 promoting insecurity among the public and posing the
 immediate threat to the security of the Department as well
 as to the State. If such activities are stopped in an
 exemplary manner, it may set a precedent on the other
 police personnel not to indulge in such activities. 7. His continuation in service may threat to the
 security of the State and appropriate steps may be taken up
 to dismiss SI L. Sushil Singh of CID(SB) under Article
 311(2)(c) of the Constitution for his involvement with
 unlawful organisations and engagement in subversive
 activities, without holding Department enquiry as it is not
 expedient to conduct Departmental enquiry in the interest
 of the security of the State. 8. The Committee after considering all the details
 placed before it regarding the activities of L. Sushil Singh,
 Sub-Inspector of CID(SB) Branch is satisfied that the
 accused official has willingly indulged in the activities of an
 organisation declared unlawful which are prejudicial to the
 security of the State. As such, it is considered not advisable
 to disclose the allegations against him or to call upon replies
 thereto. 9. The Committee Advisers, therefore, decided to
 recommend dismissal of L. Sushil Singh, Sub-Inspector of
 CID(SB) from service under Article 311(2)(c) of the
 Constitution of India as it is not expedient to hold
 Departmental Enquiry in the interest of security of the State
 as the prejudicial activities are affecting the security of the
 State." [18] The relevant operative portion of the statement of the
writ petitioner/respondent recorded by the I.O. of the case dated
24.01.2015 is extracted herein below: [20] On further perusal of the above extracted Para No. 3,

we are of the view that the disciplinary authority failed to mention

the exact involvement of the writ petitioner in prejudicial activities

and involvement of the writ petitioner/respondent in unlawful

activities with the unlawful organization (PLA/RPF) with an ulterior

motive to wage war against the Government and indulgence of the

 P a g e 28 | 103
 writ petitioner in criminal activities and failed to establish that he

has closely worked with one Sagolsem Bobby @ Ahingcha, Kakwa

Nameirakpam Leikai, the Commander of Auxiliary Battalion of

PLA/RPF and his providing secret and vital information to the said

Ahingcha. From perusal of the whole sequence of the

developments from the registration of FIR to the culmination in writ

petitioner's dismissal under Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of

India, it comes out clearly that the view of the disciplinary authority

swung from one extreme to another extreme. The reasons/grounds

for resorting to such extraordinary step of dismissal, by practically

forgoing the laid down procedure, are solely based on the internally

generated report i.e. FIR report and the statements extracted from

the writ petitioner/respondent, during the police custody with no

apparent further efforts made by the police to corroborate the said

report and statement. Whatever mentioned as the ground for taking

extreme step for dismissing the writ petitioner are just an allegation

which was alleged by the investigating authority during the

investigation and the internally generated report. 23. In Kuldip Singh v. State of Punjab , the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court held that : (SCC pp 662-63, para 7)
 "7. At our direction made on 22-4-1996 in this
 matter, the learned counsel for the State has
 produced the original record relating to the
 appellant's dismissal along with translated copies
 of the relevant document placed before us by
 the learned counsel for the State is the copy of

 P a g e 29 | 103
 FIR No. 219 of 1990 dated 24-11-1990. It is
 based upon the statement of Head Constable
 Hardev Singh, who was posted as gunman with
 Shri Harjit Singh, Superintendent of Police (SP)
 (Operations). The FIR speaks of the jeep (in
 which the said SP was travelling along with
 certain police personnel) being blown up killing
 the said SP and few other police officials. The
 next document placed before us is the case diary
 pertaining to the said crime containing the
 statement of the appellant, Kuldip Singh. In his
 statement, Kuldip Singh did clearly state about
 his association with certain named militants, the
 plot laid by them to kill Shri Harjit Singh,
 Superintendent of Police, Tarn Taran by placing
 a bomb and the manner in which they carried
 out the said plot. He also stated that he and his
 militant companions planned to plant a bomb in
 the office of SSP, Tarn Taran but that the police
 officers came to know of the said plan, thus
 foiling their plan. The learned counsel for the
 State of Punjab did concede that except the
 aforesaid statement of admission/confession of
 the appellant, there was no other material on
 which the appellant could be held guilty of
 conduct warranting dismissal from service.
 Accordingly, we are of the considered view that there

were no reliable material before the Committee of Advisors to arrive

at their satisfaction that the writ petitioner has willingly indulged in

the activities of an organization declared unlawful which are

prejudicial to the security of the State and as such, we cannot give

our approval to his subsequent dismissal under Article 311(2)(c) of

the Constitution of India. [21] We are also unable to agree with the Hon'ble Governor

giving his/her assent by just writing "may be approved" without

expressing subjective satisfaction to the recommendation of the

disciplinary authority which is against the dicta of the Hon'ble

 P a g e 30 | 103
 Supreme Court. Article 311(2)(c) of Constitution being the special

provision for resorting to this extreme step, extra care is to be taken

in taking this extreme step under Article 311(2)(c) of Constitution of

India. This is a Constitutional obligation and if such reason is not

recorded in writing, the order dispensing with the inquiry and order

of penalty following thereupon would both be void and

unconstitutional. The Article 311(2)(c) of Constitution in itself says

that no person who is a member of Civil Service of Union of India or

all India service or Civil Service of a State shall be dismissed or

removed without giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard of

the charges. In the present case, the authority dismissed the writ

petitioner under Article 311(2)(c) of Constitution of India of which,

the same is reproduced herein again for convenient sake: The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Southern

Railways at Para No.19 observed as thus: [22] From the foregoing observation made by us, we are of

the view that the disciplinary authority failed to put up reliable

materials before the Hon'ble Governor for arriving at his subjective

satisfaction for giving his approval and that the disciplinary authority

also failed to mention the departmental inquiry which was ensued

more than 1 (one) year after the registration of FIR and the stage of

the inquiry where the writ petitioner/respondent already submitted

his written argument. The authority failed to clarify and convince the

Hon'ble Governor that in spite of holding departmental inquiry for a

quite long time and it is not expedient for them to hold further

inquiry, concealment of this fact alone is the commission of malafide

on the part of the disciplinary authority. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Union of

India v. Tulsiram Patel at para Nos. 130, 133 & 134 held as under: P a g e 32 | 103 133. The second condition necessary for the valid
application of clause (b) of the second proviso is that the
disciplinary authority should record in writing its reason for
its satisfaction that it was not reasonably practicable to hold
the inquiry contemplated by Article 311 (2). This is a
constitutional obligation and if such reason is not recorded
in writing, the order dispensing with the inquiry and the
order of penalty following thereupon would both the void
and unconstitutional. 134. It is obvious that the recording in writing of the
reason for dispensing with the inquiry must precede the
order imposing the penalty. The reason for dispensing with
the inquiry need not, therefore, find a place in the final
order. It would be usual to record the reason separately
and then consider the question of the penalty to be
imposed and pass the order imposing the penalty. It should,
however, be better to record the reason in the final order in
order to avoid the allegation that the reason was not
recorded in writing before passing the final order but was
subsequently fabricated. The reason for dispensing with the
inquiry need not contain detailed particulars, but the reason
must not be vague or just a repetition of the language of
clause (b) of the second proviso. For instance, it would be
no compliance with the requirement of clause (b) for the
disciplinary authority simply to state that he was satisfied
that it was not reasonably practicable to hold any inquiry." 24. This Court in Union of India v. R. Reddappa held as
 under: (SCC p. 274, para 5)
 "5. More than a decade has gone by since these
 employees were dismissed for participating in
 strike called by the Union recognised by the
 Railways. ..................................................................
 ..................................................................
 ..................................................................
 ........................................................ We
 are not impressed by the vehement
 submission of the learned Additional Solicitor
 General that the CAT, Hyderabad exceeded
 its jurisdiction in recording the finding that
 there was no material in support of the
 finding that it was not reasonably practicable
 to hold an enquiry. The jurisdiction to
 exercise the power under Rule 14(ii) was
 dependent on existence of this primary fact.
 If there was no material on which any
 reasonable person could have come to the
 conclusion as is envisaged in the Rule then

 P a g e 33 | 103
 the action was vitiated due to erroneous
 assumption of jurisdictional fact therefore the
 Tribunal was well within its jurisdiction to set
 aside the orders on this ground. An illegal
 order passed by the disciplinary authority
 does not assume the character of legality
 only because it has been affirmed in appeal
 or revision unless the higher authority is
 found to have applied its mind to the basic
 infirmities in the order. Mere reiteration or
 repetition instead of adding strength to the
 order renders it weaker and more vulnerable
 as even the higher authority constituted
 under the Act or the rules for proper
 appraisal shall be deemed to have failed in
 discharge of its statutory obligation. [23] The learned Deputy Advocate General, further,

submits that the Call Detail Records (CDR) and other incriminating

materials on record against the writ petitioner/respondent are

sufficient to arrive at the subjective satisfaction of the authority

that it was not expedient to hold enquiry for dismissing the writ

petitioner / respondent and it is not for the Court to examine the

adequacy or otherwise of materials with which the Governor arrived

at his subjective satisfaction that it was not expedient to hold an

enquiry in the interest of the security of the State. As observed earlier by us, the authority failed to

convince / exhibit the criteria laid down in the provision as well as

the dicta laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that the authority

put up the incriminating materials on record for objective

satisfaction and for subsequent subjective approval of the Hon'ble

Governor. P a g e 34 | 103
 The relevant portion of the minutes of the meeting of

the Committee of Advisors is hereunder extracted - "6. That the gravity of the crime is such that its impact
 is debasing to the discipline moral of the forces and
 promoting insecurity among the public and posing the
 immediate threat to the security of the Department as well
 as to the State. If such activities are stopped in an
 exemplary manner, it may set a precedent on the other
 police personnel not to indulge in such activities. 7. His continuation in service may threat to the
 security of the State and appropriate steps may be taken up
 to dismiss SI L. Sushil Singh of CID(SB) under Article
 311(2)(c) of the Constitution for his involvement with
 unlawful organisations and engagement in subversive
 activities, without holding Department enquiry as it is not
 expedient to conduct Departmental enquiry in the interest
 of the security of the State. 8. The Committee after considering all the details
 placed before it regarding the activities of L. Sushil Singh,
 Sub-Inspector of CID(SB) Branch is satisfied that the
 accused official has willingly indulged in the activities of an
 organisation declared unlawful which are prejudicial to the
 security of the State. As such, it is considered not advisable
 to disclose the allegations against him or to call upon replies
 thereto. 9. The Committee Advisers, therefore, decided to
 recommend dismissal of L. Sushil Singh, Sub-Inspector of
 CID(SB) from service under Article 311(2)(c) of the
 Constitution of India as it is not expedient to hold
 Departmental Enquiry in the interest of security of the State
 as the prejudicial activities are affecting the security of the
 State." The relevant portion of the office memorandum dated

11.11.1985 at Para No. 9 of the office memorandum is extracted

herein below: [24] It is settled principle of law that the decision/proposal

of the disciplinary authority for dismissal of the writ

petitioner/respondent under Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of

India should be objective satisfaction basing on sufficient materials

of fact and law in the present case, we are of the view that this

criteria is not fulfilled by the disciplinary authority. P a g e 36 | 103
 As observed earlier by us, the objective satisfaction of

the disciplinary authority were not as per the provision as well as

the dicta of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and as such, we are not

agreeable to the submission that the satisfaction was based on

sufficient materials of fact and law. Accordingly, we are of the

considered view that the recommendation of the disciplinary

authority for invoking Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India

and the subsequent approval of the Governor are malafide.

[25] The learned Deputy Advocate General submits that the

decision taken for dismissing the writ petitioner/respondent under Article 311(2)(c) is not subjected to judicial review as there was no

malafide or extraneous consideration as in Tulsiram Patel 's case

(1985) 3 SCC 398[Para No. 142], the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

observed that - The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, Third Edition,
 defines the word 'inexpedient' as meaning "not
 expedient' disadvantageous in the circumstances,

 P a g e 37 | 103
 unadvisable, impolite". The same dictionary defines
 'expedient' as meaning inter alia "advantageous; fit,
 proper, or suitable to the circumstances of the case".
 Webster's Third New International Dictionary also
 defines the terms 'expedient' as meaning inter alia
 "characterized by suitability, practicality, and
 efficiency in achieving a particular end: fit, proper,
 or advantageous under the circumstances". It must
 be borne in mind that the satisfaction required by
 clause (c) is of the Constitutional Head of the whole
 country or of the State. Under Article 74(1) of the
 Constitution, the satisfaction of the President would
 be arrived at with the aid and advice of his Council
 of Ministers with the Prime Minister as the Head and
 in the case of a State by reason of the provisions of Article 163(1) by the Governor in the constitutional
 sense is satisfied that it will not be advantageous or
 fit or proper or suitable or politic in the interest of
 the security of the State to hold an inquiry, he would
 be entitled to dispense with it under clause (c). The
 satisfaction so reached by the President or the
 Governor must necessarily be a subjective
 satisfaction. Expediency involves matters of policy.
 Satisfaction may be arrived at as a result of secret
 information received by the Government about the
 brewing danger to the security of the State and like
 matters. There may be other factors which may be
 required satisfaction whether holding an inquiry
 would be expedient or not. If the requisite
 satisfaction has been reached as a result of secret
 information received by the Government, weighed
 and balanced in order to reach the requisite
 satisfaction whether holding an inquiry would be
 expedient or not. If the requisite satisfaction has
 been reached as a result of secret information
 received by the Government, making known such
 information may very often result in disclosure of the
 source of such information. Once known, the
 particular source from which the information was
 received would no more be available to the
 Government. The reasons for the satisfaction
 reached by the President or Governor under clause (c) cannot, therefore, be required to be recorded in
 the order of dismissal, removal or reduction in rank
 nor can they be made public." [26] However, in the instant case, it is to be mentioned that

suspension order was issued on 24.01.2015 and the memorandum

dated 22.02.2016 was issued on 22.02.2016 for departmental

 P a g e 38 | 103
 inquiry against the writ petitioner i.e. after the lapse of 1 (one) year

of his suspension, vide orders dated 22.02.2016 and 27.02.2016,

the inquiry officer and presenting officer were appointed

respectively. Written statement of defence was submitted on

03.03.2016 and the supplementary written statement of defence

was also submitted on 12.09.2016. The writ petitioner appeared

before the Presiding Officer of the DE and the written argument to

the inquiry authority was submitted on 05.12.2016. The dismissal

from service by invoking Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of

India was issued on 13.07.2017. [27] In the facts and circumstances, we are not inclined to

agree with the submission made above by the learned counsel

appearing for the appellant that it is not expedient to hold inquiry

and the authority has taken the decision to dismiss the writ

petitioner/respondent from service by invoking Article 311(2)(c) of

the Constitution. We are of the considered view that the information

received/submitted is/are not reliable enough to come to the

satisfaction that it is not expedient to hold an inquiry as

contemplated by Article 311(2). The satisfaction of the President or

Governor must, therefore, be with respect to the expediency or

inexpediency of holding an inquiry in the interest of the security of

the State. P a g e 39 | 103
 In this regard the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Tulsiram

Patel 's case (1985) 3 SCC 398observed at para No. 130, 133 &

134: The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Southern

Railways at Para No.19 observed as thus: Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Southern

Railway Officers' Assn. V. Union of India &Ors. [(2009) 9

SCC 24] observed at Para No. 22, 23, 24, 25 & 26 that - 23. In Kuldip Singh v. State of Punjab , this Court held: 24. This Court in Union of India v. R. Reddappa held as
 under: (SCC p. 274, para 5)
 "5. More than a decade has gone by since these
 employees were dismissed for participating in
 strike called by the Union recognised by the
 Railways. ..................................................................
 ..................................................................
 ..................................................................
 ........................................................ We
 are not impressed by the vehement
 submission of the learned Additional Solicitor
 General that the CAT, Hyderabad exceeded
 its jurisdiction in recording the finding that
 there was no material in support of the
 finding that it was not reasonably practicable
 to hold an enquiry. The jurisdiction to
 exercise the power under Rule 14(ii) was
 dependent on existence of this primary fact.
 If there was no material on which any
 reasonable person could have come to the
 conclusion as is envisaged in the Rule then
 the action was vitiated due to erroneous
 assumption of jurisdictional fact therefore the
 Tribunal was well within its jurisdiction to set
 aside the orders on this ground. An illegal
 order passed by the disciplinary authority
 does not assume the character of legality
 only because it has been affirmed in appeal
 or revision unless the higher authority is
 found to have applied its mind to the basic
 infirmities in the order. Mere reiteration or
 repetition instead of adding strength to the
 order renders it weaker and more vulnerable

 P a g e 43 | 103
 as even the higher authority constituted
 under the Act or the rules for proper
 appraisal shall be deemed to have failed in
 discharge of its statutory obligation. 25. In Indian Railway Construction Co. Ltd. V. Ajay
 Kumar , this Court held: (SCC p. 588, para 12)
 "12. It is fairly well settled that the power to
 dismiss an employee by dispensing with an
 enquiry is not to be exercised so as to
 circumvent the prescribed rules. The
 satisfaction as to whether the facts exist to
 justify dispensing with enquiry has to be of
 the disciplinary authority. Where two views
 are possible as to whether holding of an
 enquiry would have been proper or not, it
 would not be within the domain of the court
 to substitute its view for that of the
 disciplinary authority as if the court is sitting
 as an appellate authority over the disciplinary
 authority. The contemporaneous
 circumstances can be duly taken note of in
 arriving at a decision whether to dispense
 with an enquiry or not. What the High Court
 was required to do was to see whether there
 was any scope for judicial review of the
 disciplinary authority's order dispensing with
 the enquiry. The focus was required to be on
 the impracticability or otherwise of holding
 the enquiry. 26. The law laid down by this Court being clear and
 explicit, the question which would arise for our
 consideration is whether in then prevailing situation,
 what a reasonable man taking a reasonable view
 would have done." [28] The learned Deputy Advocate General, further,

submitted that the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that while

examining an order issued for dismissing a person by invoking

clause (c) to second proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the

Constitution, the Court cannot look into the sufficiency or

correctness of materials are also about the relevancy as long as

some materials are found relevant which forms the subjective

 P a g e 44 | 103
 satisfaction. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Union of India &Anr.

v. Balbir Singh &Ors. [(1998) 5 SCC 216] (Para No. 7),

observed that - P a g e 45 | 103
 In A.K. Kaul & Anr. v. Union of India &Anr . [(1995) 4 SCC 73](Para No. 21),the Hon'ble Supreme Court

observed that - But, in both, the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that
the scope of judicial review of the President's satisfaction for
passing an order under (c) of the second proviso to Article 311(2) in
following terms: Accordingly, in the facts and circumstances of the

present case, we are of the view that the present case comes under

the purview of the above 6 (six) terms. P a g e 47 | 103
 [29] As observed earlier by us, the materials placed before

the authority are not relevant/reliable enough for the conclusion

that there is no expediency to conduct inquiry.

[30] It is true that as per the Hon'ble Supreme Court's

observation (supra), the Court cannot look into the sufficiency or

correctness of materials which are also about the relevancy as long

as some materials are found relevant which forms the subjective

satisfaction. However, it is also observed by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court that it can be examined to ascertain whether it is vitiated

either by malafide or is based wholly on extraneous and/or

irrelevant grounds and also that it would be open to challenge on

the ground of malafide or being based wholly on extraneous and/or

irrelevant grounds. [31] On going through the confidential file placed before

us, the only ground put up by the reporting authority as reproduced

above are only allegations which were found emerged during

criminal investigation of the FIR case. On further perusal of the

confidential file as well as facts asserted by the parties, the

appellant failed to specifically mention about the conducts and

activities of the writ petitioner/respondent for dismissal from service

by invoking Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India on the

ground that due to the prejudicial activities of the writ petitioner

were affecting sovereignty and security of the State. P a g e 48 | 103
 [32] In the present case, the authority registered FIR

against the writ petitioner/respondent, put under suspension,

Departmental inquiry was conducted and the writ petitioner

submitted written argument. Mention is made here that the time

consumed from the registration of FIR till the issuance of the

dismissal order was almost two and half years. In the midst of this

period of two and half years, the authority failed to mention/report

of the further commission of prejudicial activities causing the

interest of the security of the State; but without any specific reason

(fresh prejudicial activities) other than the of the offences alleged in

the above mentioned report. In this factual position, we are not

inclined to agree with the submission made above by the learned

counsel for the writ appellant that in the interest of the security of

the State, it is not expedient to hold an inquiry in the case of

involvement and association with subversive activities of the writ

petitioner. [33] Further, on perusal of the dismissal order dated

13.07.2017 issued in the name of Governor at para No. 1 which

reads as follows: P a g e 49 | 103
 [34] In this order itself, it is mentioned that "in the interest

of the security of the State it is not expedient to hold an inquiry in

the case of involvement and association with subversive activities".

In the light of our observation made above, this order itself is

contrary to the steps taken as mentioned above by the authority

because, the SP (CID/SB), Manipur, Imphal issued an office

memorandum dated 22.02.2016 for conducting departmental inquiry

against the writ petitioner/respondent and calling upon the writ

petitioner/respondent to submit written statement of his defence. It

is evident without any doubt that the departmental inquiry was

started way back in the month of February, 2016.But, the dismissal

of the writ petitioner from service by invoking Article 311(2)(c) of

the Constitution of India was issued only on 13.07.2017. The said

office memorandum is extracted herein below: 3. Sub-Inspect L. Sushil Singh is further informed that
 if for the purpose of preparing his defence he wishes to
 inspect and to take extract from any official records, he
 should furnish a list of such records to the undersigned such
 records are not relevant for the purpose or it is against the
 public interest to allow him access to such records, he will
 not be permitted to inspect or take extracts from such
 records. 4. Sub-Inspect L. Sushil Sigh is further informed that if
 written statement of his defence is not received on or
 before the date specified above the inquiry is liable to be
 held ex-parte. 5. The attention of Sub-Inspect L. Sushil Singh is
 initiated to Rules 20 of the Central Civil Services (Conduct)
 Rules, 1964 which no Govt. servant shall bring or attempt
 to bring any political or other outside influence to bear upon
 any superior authority to further his interests in respect of
 matter pertaining to his service under the Govt. If any
 representation is received on his behalf from any other
 person in respect of any matter dealt with this proceeding it
 will be presumed Sub-Inspector L. Sushil Singh is aware of
 such representation that it has been made at his instance
 and action will be taken against him for violation of Rule 20
 of these Rules. 6. The receipt of this memorandum may be
 acknowledged. Sd/- Superintendent of Police/CID(SB)
 Manipur, Imphal" 311(2), there are two conditions precedent which must be
 satisfied before action under this clause is taken against a
 government servant. These conditions are:- The disciplinary authority is not expected to dispense with a
disciplinary inquiry lightly or arbitrarily or out of ulterior motives
or merely in order to avoid the holding of an inquiry or because
the Department's case against the civil servant is weak and is,
therefore, bound to fail. Another important condition precedent to the application of
clause (b) of the second proviso to Art. 311(2) , or Rule 19(ii) of
the CCS (CC & A) Rules, 1965 or any other similar rule is that
the disciplinary authority should record in writing the reason or
reasons for its satisfaction that it was not reasonably practicable
to hold the inquiry contemplated by Art. 311(2) or
corresponding provisions in the service rules. This is a
constitutional obligation and if the reasons are not recorded in
writing, the order dispensing with the inquiry and the order of
penalty following it would both be void and unconstitutional. It should also be kept in mind that the recording in writing
of the reasons for dispensing with the inquiry must precede an

 P a g e 53 | 103
 order imposing the penalty. Legally speaking, the reasons for
 dispensing with the inquiry need not find a place in the final
 order itself, though they should be recorded separately in the
 relevant file. In spite of this legal position, it would be of
 advantage to incorporate briefly the reasons which led the
 disciplinary authority to the conclusion that it was not
 reasonably practicable to hold an inquiry, in the order or
 penalty. While the reasons so given may be brief, they should
 not be vague or they should not be just a repetition of the
 language of the relevant rules." At para No. 2 of the office memorandum, it was

mentioned that - At para No. 3 of the memorandum, it was mentioned
that - At para No. 6 of the memorandum, it was mentioned
that - The disciplinary authority is not expected to
dispense with a disciplinary inquiry lightly or arbitrarily or
out of ulterior motives or merely in order to avoid the
holding of an inquiry or because the Department's case
against the civil servant is weak and is, therefore, bound to
fail. Another important condition precedent to the
application of clause (b) of the second proviso to Art.
311(2) , or Rule 19(ii) of the CCS (CC & A) Rules, 1965 or
any other similar rule is that the disciplinary authority
should record in writing the reason or reasons for its
satisfaction that it was not reasonably practicable to hold
the inquiry contemplated by Art. 311(2) or corresponding
provisions in the service rules. This is a constitutional
obligation and if the reasons are not recorded in writing, the
order dispensing with the inquiry and the order of penalty
following it would both be void and unconstitutional. It should also be kept in mind that the recording in
writing of the reasons for dispensing with the inquiry must
precede an order imposing the penalty. Legally speaking,
the reasons for dispensing with the inquiry need not find a
place in the final order itself, though they should be
recorded separately in the relevant file. In spite of this legal
position, it would be of advantage to incorporate briefly the
reasons which led the disciplinary authority to the
conclusion that it was not reasonably practicable to hold an
inquiry, in the order or penalty. While the reasons so given
may be brief, they should not be vague or they should not
be just a repetition of the language of the relevant rules." P a g e 55 | 103
 At para No. 9 of the office memorandum, it was

mentioned that - [36] Considering the facts and observations made above by

us, we are of the view that the conditions made herein in both para

No. 6 and 9 of the office memorandum are not complied

 P a g e 56 | 103
 with/fulfilled by the authority in invoking Article 311(2)(c) of the

Constitution of India in dismissing the service of the writ

petitioner/respondent. Further, in the facts and circumstances as set

out by the authority in the present case, the authority failed to

convince this Court that during the said more than two years of the

pendency of the case/inquiry, the petitioner did not give cooperation

to the investigation or there were additional activities committed by

the petitioner apart from the activities mentioned in the original

report. [37] Further, we are of the view that the report of the

disciplinary authority as well as the decision of the Committee of

Advisors and approval given by the Hon'ble Chief Minister as well as

the Hon'ble Governor are not in conformity with the guidelines set

out in the present office memorandum as well as the observations

made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court for contemplating recourse to

take decision that it was not reasonably practicable to hold the

inquiry contemplated by Article 311(2) or corresponding provisions

in the service rule. The satisfaction of the Hon'ble Governor as

found in the notes of the confidential file is "may be approved".

Even the words satisfied is not used; in this situation, we are of the

view that the satisfaction of the Hon'ble Governor had been reached

malafide based on wholly extraneous or irrelevant grounds; hence

open to judicial review. P a g e 57 | 103
 [38] It has further been submitted that the pendency of

criminal proceeding/Departmental proceeding is different aspect and

it does not debar the State in taking action under Article 311(2) of

the Constitution of India. As such, there is no infirmity in the order

dated 13.07.2017 dismissing the writ petitioner/respondent from

service in the interest of the security of the State by invoking Article

311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India. Further, in Union of India &

Ors. V. Major SP Sharma & Ors. [(2014) 6 SCC 351] (Para No. 69),

the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that - [39] The registration of FIR against the writ petitioner was

made on 22.01.2015 and the writ petitioner was placed under

suspension on 24.01.2015 and after lapse of more than 1 (one) year

of the registration of FIR, the memorandum dated 22.02.2016 was

issued both for initiating Departmental inquiry, vide orders

 P a g e 58 | 103
 dated22.02.2016 and 27.02.2016. The inquiry officer and presenting

officer were appointed respectively. Written statement of defence

was submitted by the writ petitioner on 03.03.2016 and the

supplementary written statement of defence was submitted on

12.09.2016 and in compliance with the inquiry officer, the writ

petitioner appeared before the inquiry officer on 19.09.2016 and

19.11.2016, submitted written arguments to the inquiry authority on

05.12.2016 and the order dated 13.07.2017 was issued by invoking Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India dismissing the writ

petitioner from service. [40] Further, the learned Deputy Advocate General

submitted that under the Rules of Business of the Government of

Manipur framed in exercise of power conferred by clause (2) and (3)

of Article 166 of the Constitution, the proposals for awarding

punishment of dismissal or removal or compulsory retirement from

service invoking the proviso (c) to Article 311(2) of the Constitution

has to be submitted by the Chief Minister to the Governor before the

issue of the Order, Rule 55(xx). As such, the recommendation of the

Committee of Advisors was placed before the Hon'ble Chief Minister

for referring to the Governor of Manipur. [41] As observed above, the contents and materials placed

before the Committee of Advisors, Hon'ble Chief Minister and

Hon'ble Governor are not enough to come to conclusion that the

 P a g e 59 | 103
 case of the writ petitioner is fit to resort to Article 311(2)(c) of the

Constitution of India for dismissing the service of the writ petitioner.

[42] The learned Deputy Advocate General referred to the

judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court passed in P. Balakotaiah V.

Union of India & Ors. (AIR 1958 SC 232) wherein it has been

observed that - [43] As observed above, the allegation made against the

writ petitioner contained in the confidential file and secret report i.e.

from the registration of FIR till the issuance of the dismissal order as

narrated above, the disciplinary authority's recommendation for

dismissal of the writ petitioner from service by resorting to Article

 P a g e 60 | 103
 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India, the disciplinary authority is

not able to show that there is no expediency to conduct

departmental inquiry against the writ petitioner.

[44] It has also been submitted by the learned Dy.

Advocate General that the dismissal of a Government employee by

invoking Article 311(2)(c) of Constitution of India on the

recommendation of Committee of Advisors constituted under the

office memorandum dated 26.07.1980 of the Central Government in

consonance with the office memorandum dated 16.08.2008 of the

State Government were subject matter in several cases before the

Hon'ble Supreme Court and no decision is found invalidating these

office memorandum. In other words, the office memorandum is

upheld by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. The submission made above by the learned Dy.

Advocate General is contrary to the laws laid down in the office

memorandum. [45] Mr. K. Roshan, learned counsel appearing for the

respondent submitted that vide order dated 24.01.2015, he was

placed under suspension and after the lapse of one year,

memorandum dated 22.02.2016 was issued for initiating

departmental inquiry. Vide orders dated 22.02.2016 and

27.02.2016, the inquiry officer and presenting officer were

appointed respectively. P a g e 61 | 103
 His written statement of defence was submitted on

03.03.2016 and the supplementary written statement of defence

was also submitted on 12.09.2016. He appeared before the

presenting officer, pursuant to and in compliance with the signal

dated 19.09.2016 and 19.11.2016, he submitted his written

arguments to the inquiry authority on 05.12.2016. Thereafter, the

departmental inquiry came to a standstill and the representation

dated 04.05.2017 was submitted seeking for reinstatement on the

ground that more than 2 (two) years have passed since the

initiation of the departmental inquiry and nothing material has come

up except for some bare allegations. However, surprisingly the order

dated 13.07.2017 was issued by invoking Article 311(2) second

proviso, clause (c) of the Constitution of India.

[46] The learned counsel appearing for the respondent,

further, submitted that since the departmental inquiry had already

been held and completed with active participation and full co-

operation of the respondent, the provisions of the Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India cannot be made applicable in the case of

the respondent. As per Article 311(2)(b)(c) of the Constitution of

India, inference can be drawn that the decision to dispense with the

enquiry has to precede the actual departmental inquiry. P a g e 62 | 103
 It has also been submitted that in the year 1985, the

Departmental of Personnel & Training, Government of India issued

an Office Memorandum No. 11012/11/86-Estt(A), dated 11.11.1985

to clarify the issues regarding the scope of second proviso to Article

311(2) of the Constitution of India subsequent to and in

consequence of the case of Tulsiram Patel &Ors. The relevant

Para No. 6 of the office memorandum is extracted herein below: The disciplinary authority is not expected to dispense with a
 disciplinary inquiry lightly or arbitrarily or out of ulterior motives
 or merely in order to avoid the holding of an inquiry or because
 the Department's case against the civil servant is weak and is,
 therefore, bound to fail. Another important condition precedent to the application of
 clause (b) of the second proviso to Art. 311(2) , or Rule 19(ii) of
 the CCS (CC & A) Rules, 1965 or any other similar rule is that

 P a g e 63 | 103
 the disciplinary authority should record in writing the reason or
 reasons for its satisfaction that it was not reasonably practicable
 to hold the inquiry contemplated by Art. 311(2) or
 corresponding provisions in the service rules. This is a
 constitutional obligation and if the reasons are not recorded in
 writing, the order dispensing with the inquiry and the order of
 penalty following it would both be void and unconstitutional. It should also be kept in mind that the recording in writing
 of the reasons for dispensing with the inquiry must precede an
 order imposing the penalty. Legally speaking, the reasons for
 dispensing with the inquiry need not find a place in the final
 order itself, though they should be recorded separately in the
 relevant file. In spite of this legal position, it would be of
 advantage to incorporate briefly the reasons which led the
 disciplinary authority to the conclusion that it was not
 reasonably practicable to hold an inquiry, in the order or
 penalty. While the reasons so given may be brief, they should
 not be vague or they should not be just a repetition of the
 language of the relevant rules." Para No. 9 of the office memorandum aforementioned

(cited by both parties) is also extracted below: [47] The respondent had participated in the departmental

inquiry which was proceeded against him with his active

participation and full co-operation to the disciplinary authorities and

had never committed any illegal acts as enumerated in the Para No.

6 of the said office memorandum which would prevent the

disciplinary authorities from proceeding with the departmental

inquiry. The authorities before dispensing with the inquiry by

invoking Article 311(2)(b)(c) have not followed the stipulations as

laid down in the said Para No. 6 of the office memorandum illegally

and arbitrarily. [48] In response to the counter affidavit filed by the

appellants/State, it has been submitted by the learned counsel

appearing for the respondent that the proposal of the Home

Department, Government of Manipur, for dismissal of the

respondent under Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India for

involvement in subversive activities and his association with the

 P a g e 65 | 103
 unlawful organization despite being a member of a disciplined police

force in the interest of security of the State, placed before the

Committee of Advisors, which recommended the proposal for

dismissal of the respondent, is mere allegation. During the writ

proceeding, the Hon'ble Single Judge did not have the opportunity

to peruse the records placed before the Committee of Advisors, but

nevertheless in Para No. 18 of the judgment under appeal had

stated that the allegations which were levelled against the

respondent requires thorough inquiry by way of oral and

documental proof. Para No. 18 of the judgment is extracted below: But, in the present appeal, as directed by us, the State

appellants produced the confidential file before us and perused the

contents of the confidential file. In addition to the Hon'ble Supreme Court's judgments

relied by us, we are also relying on the following Hon'ble Supreme

Court's judgment in deciding the present case. P a g e 66 | 103
 In the case of Union of India V. MM Sharma [(2011) 11 SCC 293 [Para No. 18], the Hon'ble Supreme Court
observed that- The Hon'ble Supreme Court held in the case of Southern Railway Officers' Association & Anr. V. Union of
India &Ors. [(2009) 9 SCC 24 (para No. 19)] that - P a g e 67 | 103
 [49] In the case of Dr. V.R. Sanal Kumar V. Union of India

&Ors. [2023 Livelaw (SC) 432, Para No. 24], the Hon'ble Supreme

Court held that - [50] Based on the decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court,

the learned counsel appearing for the respondent submitted that the

recommendation of the Committee of Advisors for dismissal of the

respondent from service cannot be said to be cogent and sufficient

based on objectivity. The Committee of Advisors acted on mere

allegations and recommended for dispensing with the departmental

inquiry against the respondent and the same suffers from the

arbitrariness and it is illegal. P a g e 68 | 103
 For the sake of convenience, the meaning of cogent,

sufficient, satisfaction, objective and subjective as these words are

properly and conveniently used in the provision of Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India, as interpreted by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court are reproduced herein below: SATISFACTION IN LEGAL TERMS
In legal terms, "satisfaction" refers to the fulfilment or
discharge of a legal obligation, judgment, or claim. Here are
some specific contexts where "satisfaction" is used: Objectivity ensures that legal rules and principles are
 applied in a manner that upholds justice and equality. 4. Avoidance of Bias: Legal professionals, including
 judges and attorneys, are expected to avoid conflicts of
 interest and maintain neutrality to ensure a fair trial or legal
 process. Overall, objectivity in the legal field is crucial for
 maintaining the integrity of the judicial process and
 ensuring that justice is administered fairly and based on
 clear, unbiased evidence and legal reasoning.

 We agree to the submission made above by the

learned counsel appearing for the respondent with regard to the

actions taken by the Committee of Advisors to the materials on

which basis the decision was made and subsequent approval of the

Governor to the recommendation for dismissing the writ petitioner

from service cannot be said to be cogent and sufficient basing on

the objectivity of the satisfaction of the authority and subjective

satisfaction of the Governor. [51] On hearing the submissions made by the learned

counsel appearing for the respondents and on perusal of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court's judgments relied upon by the learned

counsel, we are of the view that there is force and merit in the

submissions made by the learned counsel appearing for the

respondents and such submissions are reasonable and reliable in

the facts and circumstances of the case and the observation made

in the relied judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court are all

applicable and supported the submission made by the learned

counsel appearing for the respondents. P a g e 71 | 103
 [52] The Governor could not have arrived at the subjective

satisfaction that it was not expedient to hold inquiry as

contemplated under Article 311(2) second proviso clause (c) of the

Constitution of India on the basis of the recommendation of the

Committee of Advisors which was based purely on allegations, as

such the decision to dispense with departmental inquiry and

satisfaction of the Governor is open to judicial review, as the

satisfaction arrived at is vitiated by malafide and is based wholly on

extraneous and irrelevant grounds. [53] The learned counsel appearing for the respondent also

preferred the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court passed In

Samsher Singh V. State of Punjab [1974 (2) SCC 831] (Para No.

31& 57) which reads as follows: Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in PU Myllai

Hlychho & Ors. V. State of Mizoram &Ors. [(2005) 2 SCC 92]

(Para No. 14& 15) has observed that - P a g e 73 | 103
 [54] The learned counsel appearing for the respondent

referred to the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court passed in Jaswant Singh V. State of Punjab & Ors. [(1991) 1 SCC 362] (Para

No. 5) which reads as under: "5. The impugned order of April, 7, 1981 itself contains the
 reasons for dispensing with the inquiry contemplated by Article 311(2) of the Constitution, Paragraph 3 of the
 said order, which we have extracted earlier, gives two
 reasons in support of the satisfaction that it was not
 reasonably practicable to hold a departmental enquiry
 against the appellant. These are (i) the appellant has
 thrown threats that he with the help of other police
 employees will not allow holding of any departmental
 enquiry against him and (ii) he and his associates will not
 hesitate to cause physical injury to the witnesses as well
 as the enquiry officer. Now, as stated earlier after the
 two revision applications were allowed on October, 13,
 1980, the appellant had re-joined service as Head
 Constable on March 5, 1981 but he was immediately
 placed under suspension. Thereafter, two show cause
 notices dated April, 4, 1981 were issued against him
 calling upon him to reply thereto within 10 days after the
 receipt thereof. Before the service of these notices the
 incident of alleged attempt to commit suicide took place
 on the morning of April, 6, 1981 at about 11.00 a.m. In
 that incident the appellant sustained an injury on his
 right arm with a knife. He was, therefore, hospitalised
 and while he was in hospital the two show cause notices
 were served on him at about 10.00 p.m. on April, 6,
 1981. Before the appellant could reply to the said show
 cause notices respondent No. 3 passed the impugned
 order on the very next day i.e. April, 7, 1981. Now, the
 earlier departmental inquiries were duly conducted
 against the appellant and there is no allegation that the
 department had found any difficulty in examining
 witnesses in the said inquiries. After the revision
 applications were allowed the show cause notices were
 issued and 10 days time was given to the appellant to
 put in his replies thereto. We, therefore, enquired from
 the learned counsel for the respondents to point out
 what impelled respondent 3 to take a decision that it was
 necessary to forthwith terminate the services of the
 appellant without holding an inquiry as required by Article 311(2). The learned counsel for the respondents
 could only point out clause (iv)(a) of sub-para 29(A) of
 the counter which reads as under: The decision to dispense with the departmental
enquiry cannot, therefore, be rested solely on the ipse
dixit of the concerned authority. When the satisfaction
of the concerned authority is questioned in a court of
law, it is incumbent on those who support the order
to show that the satisfaction is based on certain
objective facts and is not the outcome of the whim or
caprice of the concerned officer. In the counter filed
by respondent 3 it is contended that the appellant,
instead of replying to the show cause notice,
instigated his fellow police officials to disobey the
superiors. It is also said that he threw threats to beat
up the witnesses and the Inquiry Officer if any
departmental inquiry was held against him. No
particulars are given. Besides it is difficult to
understand how he could have given threats, etc.

 P a g e 75 | 103
 when he was in hospital. It is not show on what
 material respondent 3 came to the conclusion that the
 appellant had thrown threats as alleged in paragraph
 3 of the impugned order. On a close scrutiny of the
 impugned order it seems the satisfaction was based
 on the ground that he was instigating his colleagues
 and was holding meetings with other police officials
 with a view to spreading hatred and dissatisfaction
 towards his superiors. This allegation is based on his
 alleged activities at Jullundur on April 3, 1981
 reported by SHO/GRP, Jullundur. That report is not
 forthcoming. It is no one's contention that the said
 SHO was threatened. Respondent 3's counter also
 does not reveal if he had verified the correctness of
 the information. To put it tersely the subjective
 satisfaction recorded in paragraph 3 of the impugned
 order is not fortified by any independent material to
 justify the dispensing with of the inquiry envisaged by Article 311(2) of the Constitution. We are, therefore,
 of the opinion that on this short ground alone the
 impugned order cannot be sustained." [55] On the basis of the report, the Committee of Advisors

recommended dismissal of the writ petitioner/respondent saying

that it is not expedient to hold departmental inquiry in the interest

of the security of the State as their prejudicial activities are affecting

the security of the State. Before passing the above

recommendation, the Committee of Advisors in the meeting held on

24.04.2017 observed and the reference is made to reproduce

minutes of the meeting of Committee of Advisors at Para No. 17. In the confidential file, the material placed before the

Committee as well as before the Hon'ble Chief Minister and Hon'ble

Governor, there is no document indicating the activities of the

respondent; but only the above mentioned facts. P a g e 76 | 103
 [56] In the facts and circumstances and as narrated above,

we are of the view that the satisfaction of the Governor has been

reached malafide, basing on wholly irrelevant and unreliable

materials and extraneous or irrelevant grounds as such, the present

dismissal order by invoking Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution

become subject to judicial review. The official record placed before

us, as per this Court's direction, did not disclose any materials to

support that the subjective satisfaction of the Governor was arrived

at validly and reasonably. [57] From the registration of the FIR till the dismissal of the

writ petitioner/respondent which took about two and half years, the

authority, in all the documents placed before us, failed to mention

and establish the continuity of the petitioner's involvement with

unlawful organisation and engagement in the subversive activities

which would have otherwise satisfied the authority to take

steps/recommend that the writ petitioner/respondent to be

dismissed from service under Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution as

it is not expedient to hold departmental inquiry in the interest of

security of the State as the prejudicial activities are affecting the

security of the State. [58] Mention is made here again that this decision was

taken after the lapse of two and half years and the inquiry was

initiated and concluded after filing the written argument from the

 P a g e 77 | 103
 part of the writ petitioner/respondent meaning that departmental

inquiry had then reached its final stage and abrupt volte-face of the

disciplinary authority with apparent no new development in

between. [59] We have already expressed our opinion and already

given our observation that the disciplinary authority failed to

convince us that the invocation of Article 311(2)(c) of the

Constitution of India in dismissing the writ petitioner from service

are without malafide but, in our opinion, the step was taken

malafidely. [60] The learned counsel appearing for the respondent

submitted that basing on the proposition of laws laid by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India in the cases aforementioned and various

other judgments rendered in this regard, it is very clear that the

recommendation of the Committee of Advisors is not binding on the

Governor and the Governor in exercise of his constitutional power

cannot give approval to the recommendation of the Committee of

Advisors constituted pursuant to the office memorandum dated

16.08.2008, in a routine manner/fashion.

[61] After hearing both the learned counsels and also after

perusal of the pleadings with the citations submitted by both parties

in support of their case, we have put forth three questions to

consider in the present case. They are - P a g e 78 | 103 (i) Whether the satisfaction to be arrived at by the
 Governor is subjective satisfaction? Yes, the satisfaction to be arrived at the
 Governor is subjective but, the opinion of
 the inquiry authority should be objective
 basing on the materials placed before
 them and the satisfaction arrived at by
 the Governor should be on the basis of
 relevant materials placed before it. (ii) Whether the subjective satisfaction arrived at
 by the Governor can be subject to judicial
 review? Yes, if the satisfaction arrived by the
 Governor is shown malafide and basing
 on the irrelevant materials placed before
 it, it is subject to judicial review. (iii) If there can be judicial review, what are the
 grounds which can be subjected to judicial
 review? (a) On the ground of malafide or being based
 wholly on extraneous and/or irrelevant
 ground. (b) If the material, on which the action is
 taken, is found to be irrelevant. (c) If the decision was made on malafide or
 extraneous consideration in arriving such
 decision that subjective to judicial review.

 As regards the issue No. (i), after going through the

pleadings of the parties, the observations made by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court as reproduced above and the observation herein

above by us, we are of the opinion that satisfaction to be arrived at

by the Governor in this regard, should be a subjective satisfaction. P a g e 79 | 103
 Our view, in this regard, is well explained at Para No. 9

of the office memorandum which reads as follows: P a g e 80 | 103
 As regards the issues No. (ii) & (iii), we are of the

considered view that the satisfaction arrived at by the Governor can

be subject to judicial review, if the subjective satisfaction for

invoking Article 311(2) of the Constitution of India, is arrived at: [62] The Hon'ble Supreme Court observed in Union of
India V. Tulsiram Patel [(1985) 3 SCC 938] at Para No. 130, 133 &
134 that - [63] The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Union of India & Anr.

V. M.M. Sharma [(2011) 11 SCC 239] observed at Para No. 18

that- P a g e 82 | 103
 [64] The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dr. V.R. Sanal Kumar v.

Union of India &Ors. [2023 LiveLaw (SC) 432] observed at Para No. 23

that - have been used in different Acts. Situations which affect
 "Public Order" are graver than those which affect "law and
 order" and situations which affect "security of the State" are
 graver than those which affect "Public Order". It was
 therefore, observed and held that of all these situations those
 which affect "security of the State" are the gravest. The
 expression "security of the State" does not mean security of
 the entire country or a whole State and it includes security of
 the part of the State. Furthermore, it was held that there are
 various ways in which "security of the State" could be
 affected such as, by State secrets or information relating to
 defence production or similar matters being passed on to
 other countries, whether inimical or not to our country, or by
 secret links with terrorists. It was also held that it would be
 difficult to enumerate the various ways in which the "security
 of the State" could be affected and the way in which "security

 P a g e 83 | 103
 of the State" would be affected might be either open or
 clandestine. In Paragraph 142 of Tulsiram Patel 's case
 (supra) it was further held: [65] As discussed above, the steps taken by the

appellant/State Government to remove the respondent from his

service was under Article 311(2)(c) and on perusal of the same, it is

crystal clear that the President or the Governor as the case may be,

if satisfied in the interest of the security of the State, is the

constitutional authority to decide that it is not expedient to hold

such inquiry. However, this step can be taken when the Governor is

satisfied beyond reasonable doubt of the report submitted by the

Committee of Advisors. The decision of the Governor should be in a

concrete manner. [66] The issue involved in this case was whether the

disciplinary authority was justified in imposing penalty on delinquent

employee without holding any inquiry as provided in Article 311(2) second proviso (b) of the Constitution of India. P a g e 84 | 103
 [67] The disciplinary authority passed an order for dismissal

of the petitioner from service under Article 311(2)(c) of the

Constitution of India as it was not expedient to hold departmental

inquiry holding that the delinquent employee's prejudicial activities

were affecting the sovereignty and integrity and security of the

State. [68] Some of the principles to be followed by the authority

in exercise of power under Article 311(2)(c); (i) It is well settled that the reason so recorded must
 be causing sufficient satisfaction to be arrived at
 by the disciplinary authority for the
 aforementioned purpose cannot be arbitrary it
 must be based on objectivity. (ii) The Court is required to consider what a
 reasonable man taking a reasonable view would
 have done in the situation then prevailing. (iii) In order of disciplinary authority in a case of this
 nature must be judged by a Court exercising
 power of judicial review by placing itself in the
 disciplinary authority's arm chair. (iv) The disciplinary authority should record in writing
 its reason for its satisfaction that it was not
 reasonably practical to hold the inquiry
 contemplated by Article 311(2) this is a
 constitutional obligation and if such reason is not
 recorded in writing, the order dispensing with the
 inquiry and order or penalty following thereupon
 would both be void and unconstitutional. P a g e 85 | 103 (v) The power to dismiss an employee by dispensing
 with an inquiry if not to be exercised so as to
 circumvent the prescribed rules. (vi) It is an established principle of law that an inquiry
 under Article 311(2) of the Constitution of India is
 a rule and dispensing with the inquiry is an
 exception. [69] As per our direction, the State authority produced the

original/confidential file and placed before us and we already made

observation about the contents of the confidential file. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case Southern

Railways Association and Anr. V. Union of India &Ors. (2009)9

SCC 24 at Para No. 23 observed that - The FIR speaks of the jeep (in which the said SP
 was travelling along with certain police personnel)
 being blown up killing the said SP and few other
 police officials. The next document placed before us
 is the case diary pertaining to the said crime
 containing the statement of the appellant, Kuldip
 Singh. In his statement, Kuldip Singh did clearly
 state about his association with certain named
 militants, the plot laid by them to kill Shri Harjit
 Singh, Superintendent of Police, Tarn Taran by
 placing a bomb and the manner in which they
 carried out the said plot. He also stated that he and

 P a g e 86 | 103
 his militant companions planned to plant a bomb in
 the office of SSP, Tarn Taran but that the police
 officers came to know of the said plan, thus foiling
 their plan. The learned counsel for the State of
 Punjab did concede that except the aforesaid
 statement of admission/confession of the appellant,
 there was no other material on which the appellant
 could be held guilty of conduct warranting dismissal
 from service." [70] Some of the admitted positions of facts: (iv) The respondent was departmentally proceeded
 by issuing Article of charge dated 22.02.2016
 was issued by SP(CID). P a g e 87 | 103 (v) As the departmental inquiry was not moving
 further, the delinquent while representation
 dated 04.05.2017 seeking for reinstatement on
 the ground that two years have passed since
 initiation of departmental inquiry. (vi) The State Government issued an order dated
 13.07.2017 by invoking Article 311 (2) second
 proviso clause (c) of the Constitution of India. (vii) The delinquent filed writ petition challenging the
 dismissal order before the Hon'ble Single Judge
 and the Hon'ble Single Judge was pleased to
 allow the writ petition and directed the authority
 to reinstate the respondent. The said direction is
 as follows: (viii) Against the said order of the Hon'ble Single
 Judge, the State Government filed the present
 writ appeal. (ix) The dismissal order was issued after nearly two
 and half years and the said order was issued by
 the State when already two parallel proceedings
 that is departmental and criminal prosecution
 are pending. P a g e 88 | 103
 [71] In the present case, the authority resorted to roman

No. (ii) & (iii) of the 3 (three) exceptions, but we have already

expressed our opinion and observation that even though the

authority has taken the step, the step taken by the authority are

against the provision of law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

and in the Constitution as well as in the office memorandum. We

also expressed our opinion that the decision of the authority was

taken malafide. In this regard, we made reference to the Hon'ble

Supreme Court's observation made in the case of Tulsiram Patel &

Ors. (supra). [72] As regards the action under clause (c) of the second

proviso to Article 311(2) of the Constitution, what is required under

this clause is the satisfaction of the President or the Governor, as

the case may be, that in the interest of the security of the State, it is

not expedient to hold an inquiry as contemplated by Article 311(2). This satisfaction is of the President or the Governor as a

constitutional authority arrived at with the aid and advice of his

Council of Ministers. The satisfaction so reached by the President or

the Governor is necessarily a subjective satisfaction. The reasons for

this satisfaction need not be recorded in the order of dismissal,

removal or reduction in rank, nor can it be made public. There is no

provision for departmental appeal or other departmental remedy

 P a g e 89 | 103
 against the satisfaction reached by the President or the Governor.

If, however, the inquiry has been dispensed with by the President or

the Governor and the order of penalty has been passed by

disciplinary authority revision will lie. In such an appeal or revision,

the civil servant can ask for an inquiry to be held into his alleged

conduct, unless at the time of the hearing of the appeal or revision

a situation envisaged by the second proviso to Article 311(2) is

prevailing. Even in such a situation, the hearing of the appeal or

revision application should be postponed for a reasonable length of

time for the situation to become normal. Ordinarily the satisfaction

reached by the President or the Governor, would not be a matter for

judicial review. However, if it is alleged that the satisfaction of the

President or Governor, as the case may be, had been reached mala

fide, or was based on wholly extraneous or irrelevant grounds, the

matter will become subject to judicial review because, in such a

case, there would be no satisfaction, in law, of the President or the

Governor at all. The question whether the Court may compel the

Government to disclose the materials to examine whether the

satisfaction was arrived at mala fide, or based on extraneous or

irrelevant grounds, would depend upon the nature of the documents

in question i.e. whether they fall within the class of privileged

documents or whether in respect of them privilege has been

properly claimed or not. P a g e 90 | 103
 [73] In Union of India vs. M.M. Sharma (2011) 11 SCC

293 at Para No. 18, the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that sub-

clause (c) of the second proviso to Article 311(2) , on the other

hand, does not specifically prescribe for recording of such reasons

for the satisfaction but at the same time, there must be records to

indicate that there are sufficient and cogent reasons for dispensing

with the enquiry in the interest of the security of the State. Unless

and until such satisfaction, based on reasonable and cogent grounds

is recorded it would not be possible for the court or the Tribunal.

When legality of such an order is challenged, to ascertain as to

whether such an order passed in the interest of the security of the

State is based on reasons and is not arbitrary. If and when such an

order is challenged in the court of law the competent authority

would have to satisfy the court that the competent authority has

sufficient materials on record to dispense with the inquiry in the

interest of security of the State. [74] Basing on the observation made above by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court, we are of the considered view that it is imperative

for us to call the confidential file that was put up before the Hon'ble

Governor and the learned Deputy Advocate General put up the

confidential file before us and on perusal of the file, we did not find

any cogent and reliable material to support the decision taken by

the authorities and we did not find any observation of the Hon'ble

 P a g e 91 | 103
 Governor regarding the satisfaction to invoke Article 311(2)(c) of

the Constitution against the respondent, but only the words "may

be approved". On further perusal of the entire record, we found

nothing except the correspondence made between the officials

regarding the criminal case against the respondent.

[75] In view of the situation deducible from the materials

on record, we find absolutely no reason to hold that the satisfaction,

as envisaged in the observation of the Hon'ble Supreme Court that it

is not expedient to hold an inquiry in the interest of security of the

State, was arrived at, based on reasonable and cogent ground. In

the official record there is no material indicating that there are

sufficient and cogent reasons for dispensing with the inquiry in the

interest of security of the State and in the absence of clear

indication of the satisfaction, we hold that the invoking of Article

311(2)(c) by the State Government is malafide. Accordingly, we find the act of the Hon'ble Governor in

approving for invoking Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India

is malafide and liable to be interfered with .

[76] As per the office memorandum No. 11012/11/86-

ESTT(A), dated 11.11.1985as reproduced hereunder for invoking Article 311(2)(c). P a g e 92 | 103
 The safeguards provided for holding inquiry
 ...............................................................................
 ........................................................................................
 The second safeguard provided for holding an enquiry

before dismissal or removal or reduction in rank and entitlement to

audi alteram partem, is not available under three situations, as

provided under the clauses (a), (b) and (c) of second proviso to

sub-clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution as follows: P a g e 93 | 103
 Thus, though normally a person cannot be
 dismissed or removed from service or reduced in rank
 except by holding a departmental enquiry and giving
 him reasonable opportunity of being heard, as
 provided under clause (2) of Article 311 of the
 Constitution of India, yet holding of enquiry can be
 dispensed with under three situations as mentioned
 above. [77] Here, in the instant case, after going through the

entire pleadings of the parties and the relevant provision of law, the

rules of business as exercised by the authority for invoking Article

311(2) of the Constitution of India against the respondent, we could

not find the above mentioned three illustrative cases which could be

applied in the present case as it then stood.

[78] In the office memorandum mentioned above itself

mentioned/stated that Para No. 9 stated that - P a g e 94 | 103
 [79] It is now well settled that reasons so recorded must be

cogent and sufficient. Satisfaction to be arrived at by the disciplinary

authority for the aforementioned purpose cannot be arbitrary. It

must be based on objectivity. For convenience and for satisfaction,

we make reference to the meanings of cogent, sufficient,

satisfaction which are already reproduced at Para No. 50.

[80] THE SATISFACTION OF THE GOVERNOR IN THIS REGARD

 As per the submission of the learned Deputy Advocate

General, the satisfaction of the Governor as envisaged in Article

311(2) second proviso, clause (c) of the Constitution is not the

personal satisfaction of the Governor, but the satisfaction to be

arrived with the aid and advice of the council of Ministers. The

learned Deputy Advocate General referred to Para No. 48 of the

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Shamsher Singh 's case

(supra).In this regard, we have already observed at Para No. 12. [81] In this regard, the learned Deputy Advocate General

referred to Para No. 142 of the Hon'ble Supreme Court's judgment

passed in Tulsiram Patel 's case (supra). The Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that in the

interest of the security of the State, the satisfaction of the Governor

therefore be with respect of the expediency or in-expediency of

holding an inquiry in the interest of the security of the State. The

satisfaction so reached by the President or the Governor must

 P a g e 95 | 103
 necessarily be a subjective satisfaction. The satisfaction may be

arrived at as a result of secret information received by the Governor.

[82] The learned Deputy Advocate General also referred to

the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court passed in Union of

India & Ors. V. Major SP Sharma & Ors. [(2014) 6 SCC 351]. The Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that power is

conferred on the President to terminate the services on the material

brought to his notice. As observed earlier, in the instant case, the materials

placed before the Hon'ble Governor was not reliable enough to

come to the satisfaction for revoking Article 311(2)(c) of the

Constitution of India for dismissing the writ petitioner.

[83] The learned Deputy Advocate General also referred to

the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court passed in Balbir 's case

(supra). The Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that judicial

review permissible in respect of an order of dismissal passed under

second proviso clause (c) of Article 311(2) of the Constitution, if it is

to ascertain whether the satisfaction arrived at by the President or

Governor is vitiated either by malafide or is based on wholly

extraneous and/or irrelevant grounds. Further, it is observed that so

long as there is material before the President which is relevant for

 P a g e 96 | 103
 arriving at his satisfaction, the Court would be bound by the order

so passed. This Court has enumerated the scope of judicial review

of the President's satisfaction for passing an order under clause (c)

of the second proviso to Article 311(2). The Court has said, (1) that

the order would be open to challenge on the ground of malafides or

being based wholly on extraneous and/or irrelevant grounds; (2)

even if some of the material on which the action is taken is found to

be irrelevant the court would still not interfere so long as there is

some relevant material sustaining the action; (3) the truth or

correctness of the material cannot be questioned by the court nor

will it go into the adequacy of the material and it will also not

substitute its opinion for that of the President; (4) the ground of

mala fides takes in, inter alia, situations where the proclamation is

found to be a clear case of abuse of power, (5) the Court will not

lightly presume abuse or misuse of power and will make allowance

for the fact that the president and the Council of Ministers are the

best judge of the situation and that they are also in possession of

information and material and the Constitution has trusted their

judgment in the matter; (6) this does not mean that the President

and the Council of Ministers are the final arbiters in the matter that

their opinion is conclusive; (cf. also Union of Territory, Chandigarh

v. Mohinder Singh ). P a g e 97 | 103
 In the instant case, as observed above by us, that the

satisfaction of the Hon'ble Governor was by malafide basing on

extraneous and/or irrelevant grounds put up/recommended by the

disciplinary authority and that the materials on which basis the

disciplinary authority have taken decision for recommendation by

invoking Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India are wholly

unreliable materials. [84] The learned Deputy Advocate General further referred

to Para No. 6 of the office memorandum which is extracted

hereinabove. In the office memorandum, the contemplation of Article 311(2) should be resolved to in the opinion of a reasonable

man taking a reasonable view of the prevailing situation and in the

illustrative cases would be - (a) Where a civil servant, through or together with his
 associates, terrorises, threatens or intimidates
 witnesses who are likely to give evidence against
 him with fear of reprisal in order to prevent them
 from doing so; or (b) Where the civil servant by himself or with or
 through others threatens, intimidates and
 terrorises the officer who is the disciplinary
 authority or members of his family so that the
 officer is afraid to hold the inquiry or direct it to be
 held; or

 P a g e 98 | 103 (c) Where an atmosphere of violence or of general
 indiscipline and insubordination prevails at the time
 the attempt to hold the inquiry is made. As discussed and observed earlier, we are of the view

that in the instant case, the disciplinary authority failed to fulfil the

above mentioned three illustrative cases as the disciplinary authority

failed to exhibit to the fact that in the midst of the departmental

inquiry: [85] After perusal of the pleadings and cited jurisprudence

extracted above, it is seen and evident that the satisfaction as

mentioned in the provision in arriving to the acceptance of the

proposal made by the Committee of Advisors to exercise for

invoking clause (c) to second proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of

the Constitution are subjective but, the materials placed before it to

be relevant. If the decision was made after the relevant materials

placed before the Governor and the decision was made with no

malafide or extraneous consideration in arriving such decision, there

will be no judicial review to the decision arrived at. But, if the

 P a g e 99 | 103
 satisfaction was made on malafide or extraneous consideration in

arriving such decision it can be subjected to judicial review.

[86] The satisfaction of the Governor must be with respect

to expediency or in-expediency of holding inquiry in the interest of

the security of the State. As such, the satisfaction so reached by the

President or Governor must necessarily be a subjective satisfaction.

Expediency involved matters of policy and satisfaction may be

arrived at, as a result of secret information received by the Governor

about the brewing danger to the security of the State. As observed

earlier, the disciplinary authority failed to make out their case and

the materials on which basis they have taken their satisfaction for

revoking Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India was done with

malafide intention. Accordingly, their satisfaction to come to the

conclusion was not objective. As such, it is observed that the

satisfaction, arrived at by the Hon'ble Governor on the basis of the

secret information and the recommendation of the Committee of

Advisors was not subjective satisfaction as such, the decision made

therein was malafide. [87] The order of the President/Governor can be examined

to ascertain whether it is vitiated either by malafide or it is based on

wholly extraneous and/or irrelevant grounds and so long as there is

material before the President/Governor which is relevant for arriving

 P a g e 100 | 103
 at his satisfaction as to the Court would be bound by the order so

passed. In short, the order of the President or Governor would

be open to challenge on the ground of malafide or being based

wholly on extraneous and irrelevant grounds.

[88] Where an authority has to form an opinion that an

employee is likely to be engaged in subversive activities, it can only

be matter of interference from the course of conduct of the

employee and his antecedents must form the best material for the

same. [89] Further, if the decision was arrived at based on the

subjective satisfaction of the President/Governor on materials, the

question of judicial review does not arise. But, the decision was

taken without the subjective satisfaction of the President/Governor

not basing on materials, the interference of the Court may arise. In short, the Governor could not have arrived at the

subjective satisfaction that it was not expedient to hold inquiry as

contemplated under Article 311(2) second proviso clause (c) of the

Constitution of India on the basis of the recommendation of the

Committee of Advisor which was based purely on allegation as such,

the decision to dispense with the departmental inquiry and

satisfaction of the Governor is open to judicial review. As the

 P a g e 101 | 103
 satisfaction arrived at is vitiated by malafide and is based wholly on

extraneous and irrelevant grounds. [90] The learned counsel appearing for the respondent

submitted that basing on the proposition of laws laid by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India in the cases aforementioned and various

other judgments rendered in this regard, it is very clear that the

recommendation of the Committee of Advisors is not binding on the

Governor and the Governor in exercise of his constitutional power

cannot give approval to the recommendation of the Committee of

Advisors constituted pursuant to the office memorandum dated

16.08.2008. [91] The disciplinary authority, in its order dated

13.07.2017, categorically stated that the Governor of Manipur is

satisfied under sub-clause (c) of proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution that in the interest of security of State, it is not

expedient to hold an inquiry in the case of involvement and

association with subversive activities of the delinquent and the

Governor satisfied with the information available, the activities of

the delinquent are such to warrant his dismissal from service,

accordingly, dismissed the delinquent. [92] After considering the facts and circumstances as

narrated above and our view and observations made above, we

have come to the conclusion that the present appeal has got no

 P a g e 102 | 103
 merit and no leg to stand on and we are not satisfied with the

grounds taken by the appellant in view of the admitted position of

facts and law as set out above. Even though we agree with the

conclusion drawn by the Ld. Single Judge in setting aside the

dismissal order dated 13.07.2017 dismissing the writ petitioner by

invoking Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India, we are not

agreeable with the grounds taken by the Ld. Single Judge for setting

aside the dismissal order. Accordingly, we dismiss the present

appeal, however without any order as to cost. The appellants are directed to implement the

directions given by the Ld. Single Judge within a period of 3 (three)

months from the date of receipt of a copy of this order.