1. Several question of importance are involved in this Letters Patent Appeal which arise out of the judgment of a learned Single Judge of this court dated 7th July 1999 wherein the writ petition filed by the first respondent herein questioning termination of his services has been allowed. FACTS: 2. The basic fact of the matter is not in dispute. The first respondent was appointed as General Manager of the appellant herein on or about 5th May 1992. His services were confirmed on 13th November 1993. The terms and conditions of service contained a provision whereby services could be terminated by either of the parties upon giving three months' notice or salary in lieu thereof. The writ petitioner respondent contended that he had been satisfactorily and diligently performing his duties wherefor he received appreciations and rewards. It has been contended that he being on honest and upright person, took stern decisions by imposing heavy penalties on erring companies and brokers of the appellant Exchange and had also issued several notices of inspection to the brokers. On 9th June 1995, a murderous assault was engineered by one of the brokers in view of the action against them. Allegedly, an information to the press relating thereto had been issued, which, according to the respondent, was made by the police authorities and not by him. 3. Further contention of the writ petitioner/respondent is that Executive Director of the appellant vacated his office on 25th October 1995 where after mala fide action was started being taken against him. Inspection Notices had been issued by him to various brokers including President, Vice President and Senior Directors of Delhi Stock Exchange on 22nd May 1996. His services had been terminated on the very next day viz. 23rd May 1996 without assigning any reason whatsoever. The contention of the respondent in the writ petition was that such purported termination of notice relying on or on the basis of Clause 4 afore-mentioned, was unconstitutional having regard to the decision of the apex court in Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Ltd. and Anr. v. B.N. Ganguli and Anr., and Delhi Transport Corporation v. DTC Mazdoor Congress and Ors. , . 4. In M.K. Agarwal v. Gurgaon Gramin Bank and Ors. , 1987 (Supp) SCC 643, it has been held: (2)(a) the Bank may terminate the service of an- (i) officer after giving him three months' notice or pay in lieu thereof; (ii) employee after giving him one months' notice or pay in lieu thereof; (b) The power to terminate the service of an officer or employee shall be exercised by the Chairman. 11. This Court dealing with the constitutionality of similar provisions which enabled governmental authorities such terminations simpliciter has held that the constitutional pledge of equality and the constitutional guarantee against arbitrary action contained in Article 14 , frown upon conferment on the State or its instrumentalities such arbitrary power. (See W.B. State Electricity Board v. D.B. Ghosh; Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Ltd. v. Brojo Nath ; O.P. Bhandari v. Indian Tourism Development Corporation Ltd .) 12. It requires, therefore, to be held that impugned Regulation 10(2)(a) conferring as it does, on the Bank an arbitrary and unguided power is unconstitutional. Consequently, the order dated, August 17, 1982 of purported termination (Annexure 10) of petitioner's services, which has for its foundation a provision which is unconstitutional would require to be an is hereby quashed." 5. The said contention of the respondent found favor with the learned Single Judge. 6. Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant herein principally raised four contentions in support of the writ petition: 7. Mr. Shanti Bhushan, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, would submit that in terms of Securities Contract and Regulation Act, 1976 , the appellant is recognized by the Central Government. Its birth, survival, functioning and death are all decided by the Central Government/SEBI. Its public interface is well settled and its functions are public in nature. It is also subjected to all pervasive and deep control by the Central government/SEBI. It also enjoys the monopoly status conferred to it by the Central Government for Delhi and Haryana. Thus, it would come within he purview of the expression "other authority" within the meaning of Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Reliance in this connection has been placed on Sejal Rikeen Dalal v. Stock Exchange , , Akhileshwar Upadhyaya v. Magadh Stock Exchange , , Rakesh Gupta v. Hyderabad Stock Exchange , , Trilochan K. Doshi v. Stock Exchange of India, JLJ ( 2) 1991 346 and Trilochana K. Doshi v. Stock Exchange of India and Anr. MLJ (38) 2000 (4) 83. Our attention in this connection has also been drawn to a decision of the apex court in Delhi Stock Exchange v. Commissioner of Income Tax , 1997 (3) Scale = AIR 1997 SC 2095 = wherein the following statement was made by the appellant itself: 8. Mr. Shanti Bhushan would contend that hire and fire theory is not legally permissible and such archaic doctrine has been held to be ultra vires Article 14 of the Constitution of India as also contrary to and inconsistent with the public policy in terms of Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act in Central Inland Water Corporation v. B.N. Ganguli (supra) and DTC Mazdoor Congress (supra). Learned counsel would further urge that the appellant should not be permitted to raise the question of loss of confidence in this appeal as, such a question had never been raised. He would contend that the matter relating to loss of confidence, was raised before a Division Bench of this court on earlier occasion, but when the same was remitted back to the learned Single Judge, the said contention had not been raised before the learned Single Judge at all. Our attention, in this connection, has been drawn to the following findings of the learned Single Judge. 9. Mr. Shanti Bhushan would further draw our attention to the following observations of the learned Single Judge as regards the conduct of the appellant: 10. The learned counsel states that the alleged plea of loss of confidence is completely an afterthought because neither the termination letter dated 23rd May 1996 (page 108) nor the minutes of the relevant board meeting (item No. 8 p. 1760 nor the reply dated 6th June 1996 (p. 235) by the appellants to the letter dated 31st May 1996 of the respondent seeking reasons of the termination (point VII at p. 141) nor the counter affidavit (p. 119-125) filed by the appellant on 25th April 1997 nor the alleged minutes dated 13th March 1997 (p. 227-228) of the so called meeting formed to hear the respondent after more than 10 months of his termination had any reference even to any iota of any whisper of the alleged loss of confidence. 11. He would urge that an illegally dismissed employee cannot be deprived of his legitimate right of reinstatement merely on the whims and fancies of the employer and in support of the said contention, reliance has been placed on Kanhaiya Lal Agrawal v. Factory Manager, Gwalior Sugar Company Limited, 2001 (6) Scale 300. 12. In view of the rival contentions as noticed herein before, the questions which arise for consideration in this appeal are: 14. The fact is that Delhi Stock Exchange is a company incorporated under the Companies Act . It is not created under a statute. According to the appellant, Delhi Stock Exchange would not come within the purview of expression "other authorities" contained in Article 12 of the Constitution of India, having regard to its salient features which are as under: 15. The salient features of the Delhi Stock Exchange as stated by the petitioner are as under: 16. Whereas the respondents, on the other hand, would contend that the Delhi Stock Exchange is an instrumentality of the State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India. The respondents contend that the Central Government/SEBI has a deep and pervasive control over the affairs of the Stock Exchange. It was contended that they have very important functions to perform which have a direct nexus with the development of the economy inasmuch as people's savings are required to be and can be harmonized only through the Stock Exchange. It was pointed out that a small shareholder needing money can transfer his shares only through Stock Exchange and as such, having regard to the provisions contained in Securities Contract and Regulation Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as "the 1956 Act), the Stock Exchanges are required to build confidence in the small investors. It was further submitted that although it does not have any statutory monopoly, it has a de facto monopoly. 17. Let us consider as to whether the control of the Central Government/SEBI in terms of the provisions of the 1956 Act, is so deep and pervasive so as to bring it within the authority contained in Article 12 of the Constitution of India. 18. The 1956 Act was enacted to prevent undesirable transactions in securities by regulating the business of dealing therein by providing for certain other matters connected therewith. Stock Exchange has been defined in Section 2(j) to mean "any body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, constituted for the purpose of assisting, regulating or controlling the business of buying, selling or dealing in securities." Section 3 provides for an application for recognition of stock exchanges. Section 4 empowers the Central Government to grant recognition to stock exchanges subject to the conditions imposed upon it upon satisfying itself that it fulfillls the criteria thereof. Sub-section (2) of Section 4 lays down the conditions "for the grant of recognition to the stock exchanges may include, among other matters, conditions relating to- (i) the qualifications for membership of stock exchanges; (ii) the manner in which contracts shall be entered into and enforced as between members; (iii) the representation of the Central Government on each of the stock exchanges by such number of persons not exceeding three as the Central Government may nominate in this behalf; and (iv) the maintenance of accounts of members and their audit by chartered accountants whenever such audit is required by the Central Government." 19. Recognition of the Stock Exchange under the Section is required to be published in the Gazette of India. The rules of the recognized stock exchanges can be amended only upon approval of the Central government. Section 5 provides for withdrawal of recognition. Section 6 empowers the Central Government to call for periodical returns or direct enquires to be made. Section 7 provides for annual reports to be furnished to the Central Government. Section 9 empowers the Stock Exchange to make bye-laws. Section 10 , however, also empowers the Central Government to make or amend bye-laws of recognized stock exchange. Section 11 empowers the Central Government to supersede governing body of a recognized stock exchange. Section 12 empowers the Central Government to suspend business of recognized stock exchanges. Section 13 empowers the Central Government to declare contracts in notified areas illegal by notification in the official gazette. Section 19 prohibits any person to organize or assist in organizing or be a member of any stock exchange other than a recognized stock exchange for the purpose of assisting in, entering into or performing any contracts in securities. Section 21 provides that where securities are listed on the application of any person in any recognized Stock Exchange, such person shall comply with the conditions of the listing agreement with that Stock Exchange. Under Section 22 , an appeal is maintainable against an order passed by the Stock Exchange to list securities of public companies. Section 23 provides for penalties in relation to the matters specified therein. Section 29 of the Act is in the following terms: 20. The provisions above-mentioned clearly go to show that not only Stock Exchanges perform an important function, its control by the Central Government/SEBI are deep and invasive. So invasive is control of the SEBI and even the writ petitioner against the impugned order preferred an appeal before SEBI and filed a representation before SEBI which was entertained. The appellant herein submitted itself to the jurisdiction of SEBI without any demur whatsoever. The SEBI constituted an independent Committee and despite pendency of the writ petition before this court arrived at its own finding. This also goes to sow that not only the Central government but also a statutory authority exercises deep and pervasive control over the Stock Exchange. It may be that it does not receive any financial assistance. But receiving the financial assistance is not the only criteria for holding that an instrumentality of the State would come within the purview of the definition of "other authorities". 21. Although, it may not be of much relevance, but we may notice that in Delhi Stock Exchange Association Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, New Delhi , 1997 (3) Scale 353, the Delhi Stock Exchange itself has given out that it is being considered to be under "other authorities" within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India. 22. Admittedly, its main source of revenue is from listing fees received from the listed companies. Its power to list companies flows from a statute. In doing so, it exercises a quasi judicial function and appeal lies against its order refusing to list companies. 23. The Stock Exchanges, although statutorily do not enjoy a monopoly status, having regard to the provisions of the Act, as noticed hereinbefore, it factually does so inasmuch as unless and until a Stock Exchange is recognized by the Central Government in terms of Section 4 of the Act, no other Stock Exchange can perform the said function. The State had been taking on more and more commercial activities and thus courts have examined the purport and ambit of activities of such bodies keeping in view a wider and wider range of measures the executive and the Central Government adopt. In Ramana Dayaram Shetty v. The International Airport Authority of India , , it was held: 24. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research, a society registered under the Societies Registration Act has been held to be 'State' in P.K. Ramachandra Iyer v. Union of India , on the ground that the control of the Central Government over its affairs was deep and pervasive. Reference in this connection may also be made to B.S. Minhas v. Indian Statistical Institute , . This aspect of the matter has also been held in Ajay Hasia v. Khalid Mujib Sehravardi , holding that: 25. The functions of the appellant are such that it has also ben granted exemption from payment of Income-tax. Its functions are so important that for granting withdrawal and supersession of recognition, the orders are required to be punished in the official gazette which is not done in cases of private organizations. 26. In All India Schools Employees Association v. defense Minister-cum-Chairman, Board of Governors, Sainik Schools Society, 1998 SCR (Supp 3) 398 it was held that a school is also a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India. In Mohini Jain v. State of Karnataka , , having regard to the State's obligation to provide education, it was held that the educational institutions carry on the supplementary sovereign functions. It was held "When the State Government grants recognition to the private educational institutions, it creates an agency to fulfill its obligation under the constitution". From the Preamble of the 1956 Act, it would appear that the same casts a duty upon the Central Government mainly to perform the function of regulating the business of dealing in securities and prevent undesirable transactions therein and the Central Government in turn had assigned the said function to all recognized stock exchanges and to that extent, it performs governmental functions. 27. In UP State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd. v. Chandra Bhan Dubey and Ors. , , it was held: 28. Following are some of the important Sections of SEBI Act which support the assertion that Central Government has deep and all pervasive close control on the functioning of all RSEs (Recognized Stock Exchanges): 29. The apex court, again in Unni Krishnan JP v. State of Andhra Pradesh , , held that when a private body carries on public duty, as in the case of an institution whereby recognitions and affiliations are to be granted with conditions, Stock Exchanges are also recognized subject to various conditions. Unlike the companies registered under the Indian Companies Act , the bye-laws of a Stock Exchange can be amended. Even for amendment in bye-laws, the Stock Exchange requires approval of the Central Government. The Central Government, having regard to the provisions of the 1956 Act, as noticed hereinbefore, can interfere in the functions of the Stock Exchange at every stage. 30. Section 20 of the 1956 Act is a pointer to show that it is an instrumentality of the State inasmuch as the protection of action taken in good faith has been extended to Stock Exchanges which are granted only to public servants. The Central Government even can delegate its power in favor of the SEBI. 31. As would be noticed hereinafter, the history shows that various legislations had been enacted for safeguarding the interests of the investors and particularly small investors. Economy of the country, one way or the other, to a large extent would depend upon the dealings of the Stock Exchange. 32. The concept that all public sector undertakings incorporated under the Indian Companies Act or Societies Registration Act for being State must be financed by the Central Government and under the deep and pervasive control thereof has undergone a sea change. The thrust, in our opinion, should be not upon the composition of the company but the duties and functions performed by it. Thus, Whether the appellant is a body which exercises public function, is the primary question which should be raised and answered. 33. In Chander Mohan Khanna v. NCERT, , the Supreme Court cautioned against the wide expansionist meaning given to the State under Article 12 and held: 34. In Tekraj Vasandi v. Union of India , the Supreme Court held: 35. It may be true that the Karnataka, Kerala and Madras High Courts in R. Jagadeesh Kumar v. P. Srinivasan , , Satish Nayak v. Cochin Stock Exchange Ltd., AIR 1975 Kerala 373 (DB) (Paras 25, 26 and 27) and A. Vaidyanathan v. Union of India, 1998 Writ L.R. 705 (Madras) (Para 15) = AIR 1999 Madras 11, had held that the Stock Exchange is not a State. 36. The Karnataka High Court decision in R. Jagadeesh Kumar v. P. Srinivasan (supra) was dealing with the case where, in relation to the writ petitioner, Karnataka Stock Exchange, Bangalore was not performing the sovereign function. 37. We may, however, notice that in Rajesh Kumar Maheshwari v. Union of India , , a Division Bench of this court has held that the Stock Exchange exercises the function of public character. The Karnataka decision was also based on a concession that the Delhi Stock Exchange is not a public authority. 38. There exists a distinction between a statutory authority and a public authority. A writ not only lies against a statutory authority, it will also be maintainable against a person who is performing duties under a statute and exercises monopoly power. 39. This aspect of the matter has been considered in Anadi Mukta Sadguru Shree Muktajee Vandas Swami Suvarna Jayanti Mahotsav Smarkm Trust and Ors. v. V.R. Radani and Ors. (supra). It has clearly been stated that the writ petition would be maintainable against other persons or bodies who perform public duty. The nature of duty imposed on the body would be highly relevant for the said purpose. Such type of duty must be judged in the light of the positive obligation owned by a person or authority to be the affected party. 40. But, in disputedly, in discharging its functions, the Delhi Stock Exchange has to deal with the public in general. It has some say as regards changing economic scenario of the country. Stock exchanges all over the country play a vital role in maintaining the vitality of the economy. Economic reforms of the country, particularly those in corporate sector, have a vital say in the development of economical physique of the country wherein formation of Stock Exchange and the role played by it assumes an important role. 41. It is pertinent to mention here that in Rajendra Rathore v. M.P. Stock Exchange , 1999(2) JLJ 346, it was noted that: 42. It is worthwhile to note the history of the formation of the Stock Exchanges. Bombay Securities Contracts Act, 1925 was enacted which governed the dealings in stock exchanges. Thereafter, Securities Contract Regulation Act, 1956 being Act 42 of 1956 was enacted which came into force on 4th September 1956 in terms whereof 1925 Act was repealed. The said Act was enacted by the Parliament in terms of Entry 42 in List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India. 43. The object said legislation would be found from the report of the Gorwala Committee which is in the following terms: 44. In terms of the provisions contained in Section 30 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, a regulation known as the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 was framed. The Companies (Issue of Share Certificates) Rules was passed and the Preference Shares (Regulation of Dividends) Act, 1960 was passed. In 1966 The Capital Issue (Application for Consent) Rules, 1966 was passed. In 1969 The Capital Issue (Exemption) Order, 1969 was passed. In 1975 the Companies (Transfer of Profits to Reserves) Rules, 1975 was passed. In the same year, The Companies (Declaration of Dividend out of Reserves) Rules, 1975 was passed and The Companies (Declaration of Beneficial Interest in Shares) Rules, 1975 was passed. In 1986 the Securities Contracts (Reference to the Company Law Board) Rules, 1986 was passed. 45. A new Act known as Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 came into force in the year 1992. Section 2(1) of the said Act defines "securities" as in the same meaning as contained in Section 2(2) of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956. Several Acts and Rules were again made in the year 1992 viz. 46. Depository's Act came to be enacted in the year 1996 in terms whereof National Securities Depository Ltd. came into being. Central Depository Service Limited was promoted by the Bombay Stock Exchange and Bank of India. Several guidelines had been issued by SEBI. 47. Operation of the capital market at all the places including Delhi, are governed by the prevalent laws, some of which have been enumerated herein before. Such laws are meant to protect the interest of the investors and securities and to protect the development of and regulate the security markets in India. Stock Exchanges are given the entire monopoly in the transactions relating to shares under the complete control of the Government of India by the SEBI and/or the Central Government through the laws mentioned herein before. 48. At this juncture, it would be relevant to notice the history and relevance of the said Act, as observed in Dahiben Umedbhai Patel and Ors. v. Norman James Hamilton and Ors. , 57 Company Cases (1985) 700 which is in the following terms: 49. A reference in this connection also be made to Madhubai Amathalal Gandhi v. Union of India , AIR S.C. 21 wherein the Supreme Court traced the history as under: 50. The matter has been considered in Rakesh Gupta and Ors. v. Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd. And Ors. wherein the Division Bench noticed the dissenting voice in Kerala judgment of V. Punnan Thomas v. State of Kerala , which found support in Ramanna v. I.A. Authority of India, , Anadi Mukta Sadguru Shree Muktajee Vandas Swami Suvarna Jayanti Mahotsav Smarkm Trust and Ors. v. V.R. Radani and Ors., AIR 1989 SC 1609, Dwarkanath v. Income-tax Officer, and several other decisions and held that a writ of mandamus can be issued the Stock Exchange. It accepted the view of the Bombay High Court in Sejal Rikeen Delhi v. Stock Exchange, Bombay , , a judgment of Sujata Manohar, J. (as she then was) and Akhileshwar Upadhyaya v. agadh stock Exchange Association, . It was observed in para 45 that: 51. Yet again in Rajendra Rathor and Anr. v. MP Stock Exchange and Ors. , 1999 (2) JLJ 346, B.A. Khan, J. speaking for the Division Bench, observed as under: 52. Holding that even if it is not a State, a writ will lie, it was observed in para 26 as under: 53. In Trilochana K. Doshi v. Stock Exchange of India and Anr. , 2000(4) Mh.LJ 83, it was held that a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India can be maintainable against the Stock Exchange. 54. What will be a public utility service, has been noticed in Corpus Jurisdiction Secundum 998, in the following terms: 55. In an article by Sue Arrow Smith on Judicial Review and Contractual Powers of the public authorities, it is stated:- 56. Public bodies are required to follow certain principles and guidelines (see Ramanna v. I.A. Authority of India, . 57. In Harminder Singh Arora v. Union of India and Ors. , , the apex court stated that the State need not enter into a contract with anybody but it must do so fairly without discretion and without unfair procedure. Reference in this connection, may also be made to Kasturi Lal v. State of Jammu and Kashmir ,. 58. What, although, may be apparent to a private law remedy, having regard to the facts and circumstances thereof, the remedy may be held to be a public remedy. Thus, whether a particular case involves a public law element or private law element depends upon the facts of each case. 59. In Assambrook Exports Ltd. and Anr. v. Export Credit Guarantee Corpn. of India Ltd. and Ors. , , it has been held: 36. In Tata Cellular v. Union of India , S. Mohan, J. observed (Para 101):- "A modern comprehensive statement about judicla review by Lord Denning is very apposite; it is perhaps worthwhile noting that stresses the supervisory nature of the jurisdiction: 37. The learned Judge further observed (Para 102):-- "We may usefully refer to Administrative Law Rethinking Judicial Control of Bureaucracy by Christopher F. Edley, JR (1990 Edn). At page 96 it is stated thus: 61. Having regard to the various decisions, we are of the opinion that the appellant satisfies the following conditions laid down by the apex court in Ramana Dayaram Shetty v. The International Airport Authority of India (supra): 62. The services of the respondent were terminated on 23rd May 1996 purported to be in terms of the offer of appointment. 63. It is not in dispute that such a clause commonly known as "Henry VIII Clause" has been declared ultra vires Article 14 of the Constitution of India and Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act. 64. The apex court in Central Inland Water Transport Corpn. Ltd. and Anr. v. Brojo Nath Ganguli and Anr. , has clearly held: 65. Yet again, the apex court in Delhi Transport Corporation v. DTC Mazdoor Congress and Ors. , observed: 66. It is not in dispute that the writ petitioner/respondent was a permanent employee. Having regard to the fact that such a provision has been held ultra vires, we are of the opinion that the petitioner's services could not have been dispensed with relying on or on the basis of the provisions contained in the offer of appointment. Re: Question Nos. III to V 67. The writ petitioner, inter alia, alleged that the action of the appellant in terminating his service was mala fide. The said contention of the respondent found favor with the learned Single Judge. It is not in dispute that the respondent, as General Manger of the appellant, joined the services in May 1992. According to the appellant, although initially his work and conduct was good but gradually it was found that he had not been taking interest. He allegedly generated controversy and was shifted to Investors' Grievance Cell in February 1993. Allegedly, files of various companies had been pending with him for a long time as a result whereof, the NOCs to be granted to the said companies had been held back. Several other acts of misconduct on his part had been enumerated. A detailed agenda note was allegedly prepared before the same was placed before the Board of Directors in its meeting dated 23rd May 1996. The relevant portion of the said Agenda Note is as under: 68. The Board which consisted of various public nominees including a former Judge of this court resolved to terminate his services in terms of Clause 4 of the Appointment Letter, which is as follows: 69. The writ petitioner/respondent opposed the Chariman by a representation dated 25th June 1996 whereupon a detailed hearing was given to him by a Committee of the Directors comprising of Shri Vijai Kapoor, Justice M.L. Jain (Retired) and Shri R.N. Bansal, public nominees on the Board of Delhi Stock Exchange and Shri Ashok Kacher, SEBI nominee on the Board. The said Committee also arrived at a finding that his grievances had no merit. 70. There exists a controversy as to whether the said purported note has ever been placed before the Board of Directors. Allegations and counter allegations have been made. Affidavits of the members of the Board of Directors had been filed which resulted in filing further affidavits by the parties pointing out existence of the purported reasons why such affidavits had been filed. Submission of Dr. Singhvi, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant is that the learned Single Judge committed a serious error in so far as it failed to take notice of the plea of the appellant that it has lost confidence in the respondent, inter alia on the ground that such a plea had never been taken. The learned counsel would contend that the note on agenda having been formed part of the additional counter affidavit, although technically the expression "loss of confidence" might not have been used, such a plea is implicit. In any event, the learned counsel would contend that in a case this nature, the court, in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, should give monetary compensation. Reliance in this connection has been placed on: 71. The learned counsel has produced before us a chart containing various decisions showing the amount of compensation awarded in lieu of reinstatement with back wages. It reads as under: no
 
  
 Title
 of the cage
 
 Citation
 
 Court
 
 Organisation
 
 Grade
 
 
 Amount- (Rs)
 
 Principle
 followed 1. O.P.
 
 Bhandari
 
 Vs.
 UOI AIR
 1987 SC 111 (Paras 9 & 10)
 
 S.C.
 
 ITDC
 (Hotel Ranjit)
 
 Manager
 
 
 Compensation
 equivalent to 3-33 years last drawn salary including
 
 allowances
 
 The
 Corpus, if invested, at prevailing rate of interest will give 50% of
 annual salary without any work and he can work else where and earn
 whatever he is worth over and above getting 50% of salary. 2.
 
 
 Workmen
 of Bharat Fritz Werner (P) Ltd. Vs
 
 Bharat
 Fritz Wenner (P) Ltd. AIR
 1990 SC 1054 (Paras 23, 24 and 25)
 
 SC
 
 Bharat
 Fritz Wenner (P) Ltd. Workmen
 
 Rs. 2,22,000/- The
 Supreme Court applied the principles laid down in O.P. Bhandari 's case. 3.
 
 Virender
 Singh Vs. Fruits & Veg. Projects 1998 LLR 444 (Paras 15, 17 & 18)
 
 Delhi
 H.C.
 
 National
 Diary Development Board
 
 Executive
 
 Rs. 4 lakhs
 
 The
 Court followed the principles laid down in O.P. Bhandari ' case. 4.
 
 Amarjit
 Singh Vs PNB & Ors. (2) LLJ 354 (Delhi) (Para 3 7)
 
 Delhi
 H.C.
 
 
 Punjab
 National
 
 Bank
 
 GM
 at Lender Branch
 
 Rs. 1 Lakh as compensation and Salary from the date of termination (24.3.85)
 till date of judgment (24.3.86) with all other terminal benefits
 
  
 
 

 
 
 II. JUDGMENTS ON THE COMPENSATION AWARDED IN LIEU OF
 REINSTATEMENT WITH BACK WAGES - SUPREME COURT - OFFICERS
 

 
 
 
 Sl. no. Title of the case
 Citation
 Court
 Organization
 Grade
 Amount (Rs)
 Principle followed 1.
 K.A. Barot Vs State of Gujrat
 1990 (Supp.) SCC 287
 SC
 
 Gujrat Judicial
 Service
 Civil Judge
 Rs. 50,000/- Appellant out of employment for about 17 years 2.
 
 M.L. Kamra Vs. C.M.D . New India Assurance
 AIR 1992 SC 1072 (Para 5)
 SC
 New India Assurance Co. Ltd. Divisional Manager
 Rs. 1,00,000/- Lumpsum in lieu of reinstatement and further
 continuation of service 3.
 Radha Bai Vs Union Territory of Pondichery &
 Ore. (1995) 4 SCC 141
 SC
 Social Welfare Dept. Govt. of Pondichery
 Asst. Director
 Rs. 3 lakhs plus pension & retirement benefits
 Rs. 3 lakhs as compensation for loss of honour,
 reputation and mental agony in the long battle, Pension and other
 consequential benefits 4. Wasim Beg Vs State of UP & Ors (1998) 3 SCC 321 (Para 21)
 SC
 U.P. State Leather Dev. Corpn. Works Manager
 Rs, 2,00,000/- III. JUDGMENTS ON THE COMPENSATION AWARDED IN LIEU
 OF REINSTATEMENT WITH BACK WAGES SUPREME COURT-WORKMEN
 

 
 
 
 Sl. No.
  
 Title of the case
 Citation
 Court
 Organisation
 Grade
 
 Amount
 (Rs)
 Principle followed 1.
 ITC Factory Vs. Labour Court
 AIR 1978 SC 1428 (Para 20)
 SC
 I.T.C.
 Machine Operator
 
 Rs. 11,250/- Salary and other allowances payable to the workman
 for a period of 5 years 2. Anil Kumar Chakraborty Vs. Saraswatipur Tea Co. Ltd . (1982) 2 SCC 328 (Para 5)
 SC
 Saraswatipur Tea Co. Ltd. Compounder
 
 Rs. 50,000/- 3. Naval Kishore Vs Darbshaw B. Cursetjee 1984 II LLJ 473 SC (Para 4)
 
 
 SC
 M/s Darbshaw B Cursetjee's sons (P) Ltd. Workman
 
 Rs. 2
 lakhs
 Lump-sum compensation in lieu of reinstatement with
 back wages 4.
 Chandulal Vs. Management of Pan American World
 Airways Inc.
 1985 (2) LLJ 181
 SC
 Pan American World Airways Inc.
 Workman
 Rs. 2 lakh 5.
 U.P.S.R.T.C. Vs. Munirnklin
 
 (1990) 4 SCC 464 SC
 U.P.S.R.T.C.
 Conductor
 35,000/- Rs. Lump-sum in lieu of benefits 6.
 Yashvir Singh Vs. Modern Food Industry (1) Ltd. & Anr. 1992 (1) SLR 420
 SC
 Modern Food Inds. (I) Ltd. & Anr. Workman
 Rs. 75,000/- Lump-sum compensation in lieu of reinstatement with
 back wages. 7. Gujarat State Road Transport
 Corpn. & Anr. Vs. Mulu Amra AIR 1994 SC 112 (paras 2 & 3)
 SC
 Gujarat State Road Transport Corpn. Workman
 Rs. 75,000/- Compensation in lieu of reinstatement with back
 wages 8. Syed Azam Hussaini Vs. Andhra Bank Ltd . 1995 Supp. (1) SCC 557 (Para 10)
 SC
 Andhra Bank
 Clerk
 Rs. 75,000/- Lumpsum instead of reinstatement & back wages 9.
 A.K. Dns Vs. National Federation of Co-Op. Sugar
 Factories Ltd. 1995 (5) SLR 504 (Para 2)
 SC
 Sugar Factory
 Driver
 Rs. 40,000/- 72. However, on the other hand, Mr. Shanti Bhushan relied on the following judgments for showing that the court had even considered grant of entire back wages plus compensation in some cases. 73. Tarlochan Singh Mokha v. M/s Shriram Piston & Himalaya House and Ors., 1998 IV AD (Del) 225, Sant Raj and Anr. v. O.P. Singh and Anr., , Naval Kishore (Workman) v. M/s Darbshaw B. Cursetjee's Sons and Ors., 1984 Lab IC 1558 and Virender Singh v. General Manager, Fruit & Vegetable Project and Anr., 1998 III AD (Del) 17. 74. Mr. Shanti Bhushan, learned counsel for the writ petitioner would also submit that the court normally should pass a judgment of reinstatement with full back wages whenever it is found that the order of termination from services is illegal. 75. The learned counsel, relying on the observations made by Ramaswami, J. in Delhi Mazdoor Congress (supra), would contend that honest employees should not be kept out of employment. It was submitted: His services were terminated because: 76. It was submitted that prior to issuance of the impugned order of termination, no warning had been given nor any show cause notice had been issued. 77. The learned counsel would contend that the writ petitioner at the time of termination was 36 years only and he tried his best to obtain another employment but failed in his attempt to do so and as such, it is unlikely that he would get a job. 78. Relying on various decisions, the learned counsel would contend that loss of confidence in an employee should not be presumed unless it is specifically pleaded and proved. Reference in this connection may be made to: 79. In any event, the learned counsel would contend that in a case of this nature, the court should not follow the line of cases in O.P. Bhandari (supra) and assess compensation having regard to the following decisions: 80. The question as to whether the agenda note was circulated or not is a serious disputed question of fact. It is true that in terms of provisions of Section 195 of the Companies Act, a presumption arises that affairs of the company must have been done in due course of business. But there may be intrinsic evidence to show that the presumption is rebuttable. 81. The fact, however, remains that loss of confidence was not a ground for termination of service. The order terminating the service, ex facie, was not stigmatic. From a statement made in the counter-affidavit as also the additional affidavit, it is evident that there were serious charges against the writ petitioner. 82. On the other hand, the writ petitioner, as noticed hereinbefore, had, inter alia, contended that the order of termination was passed having regard to the fact that the petitioner issued notices of inspection to various persons including the President and the Vice President and in fact not only was he threatened but a murderous assault had taken place on him by or at the instance of a member of Delhi Stock Exchange, Shiv Charan Das Aggarwal. Even when the matter was pending investigation, the petitioner was charged with using his office and provisions for making correspondence with the authorities. Despite the fact that the petitioner suffered serious injury resulting in a Press Release by the Commissioner of Police, the petitioner was requested to give details of the police case filed by him inter alia on the ground that he had been giving statement before the Press. Such allegations and counter allegations of serious nature are themselves, in our opinion, a pointer to the fact that as no love is lost between the parties, it would not be advisable to direct reinstatement irrespective of the fact that loss of confidence had been pleaded or proved. In O.P. Bhandari v. ITDC, , it was held as under: 83. The writ petitioner holds a key post. He exercise various statutory powers. He has to deal with the public. He has to act in close association and confidence with the Board of Directors. It may be that the case of the appellant that the writ petitioner has lost confidence is not based on any material and/or is grossly exaggerated. Having regard to the decision of the apex court in Assam Oil Company v. Its Workmen , that it is not a fit case where we should direct reinstatement. It is trite that the court can, in appropriate cases, decline reinstatement. It is true, as has been submitted by Mr. Shanti Bhushan that in M.K. Agarwal v. Gurgaon Gramin Bank and Ors. (supra), the court granted relief of reinstatement with 50% back wages even in case of manager of a bank when its decision does not lay down any law. It has followed O.P. Bhandari v. Indian Tourism Development Corpn. Ltd. Such a relief was granted in the facts of the case. 84. It is difficult to lay down any law in the absolute terms as to how the amount of compensation should be computed. It depends on various factors: 85. A distinction has to be borne in mind between a suit for damages and the exercise of discretion of a writ court in granting compensation in lieu of reinstatement. 86. Sant Raj and Anr. v. O.P. Singla and Anr. , arose out of an award of an Industrial Tribunal wherein with back wages had been granted. Therein, one year's wages were modified for the fact that the petitioner were held entitled to back wages in full for a period of 12 years in lieu of relief reinstatement. It was considered to be adequate compensation. 87. Naval Kishore (Workman) v. Darbshaw B. Cursetjee 's Sons and Ors., 1984(2) Lab IC 1558 was again a case which arose out of an award. Therein, the amount of Rs. 2 lakhs was awarded out of which Rs. 1,10,000/- was awarded as future compensation for loss of service at the rate of 15,000/- per year for eight years. 88. In Chandu Lal v. The Management of Pan American World Airways Inc. , , damages of Rs. 2 lakhs had been granted by way of adequate compensation. 89. In Tarlochan Singh Mokha v. Shriram Piston & Himalaya House and Ors. , 1998 IV AD (Del) 225 while awarding damages, an amount of Rs. 5,82,785.75P was granted besides the sum which had already been received by the plaintiff therein namely, Rs. 57,204.25 holding that the plaintiff under the guise of claiming damages, cannot try to enrich himself. 90. In Virender Singh v. General Manager, Fruit & Vegetable Project and Anr. , 1998 III AD (Del) 17, a sum of Rs. 4 lakhs was held to be adequate compensation. 91. Some sort of a guess work and to some extent even a rule of thumb may be imperative in calculating the damages. In the instant case, the appellant, by orders of this court passed from time, has already paid a sum of Rs. 7,50,000/- to the writ petitioner/respondent. The services of the writ petitioner/respondent were terminated, he was given over a sum of Rs. 42,000/- in lieu of three months' wages. Admittedly, he was entitled to the annual gratuity also. According to the appellant, he was entitled to a sum of Rs. 30,000/- per month. It is, therefore, not a case where the writ petitioner did not receive any sum from the appellant at all. On the question of amount of compensation to be paid in lieu of reinstatement, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held:- 92. In that view of the matter, we are of the opinion that payment of compensation for a sum of Rs. 12 lakhs shall meet the ends of justice. Out of the aforementioned amount of Rs. 12 lakhs, the amount which has already been paid to the respondent by the appellant, shall be adjusted. Such balance amount should be paid to the appellant within a period of three months from date. 93. Mr. Shanti Bhushan submitted that the writ petitioner had tried to obtain employment but did not succeed so far. It is, therefore, not ruled out that he has a chance of getting re-employment. As agreed to by the learned counsel for the parties, the writ petitioner may be technically reinstated in service for a period of three months. However, as the writ petitioner would neither join in his service, nor he shall be assigned with the duties and the functions. as agreed to by the learned counsel for he petitioner. He would not claim any salary for the said period but he would, during the afore-mentioned period, try to obtain an alternative job. The appellant, however, shall issue a formal letter of reinstatement on the afore-mentioned terms to which Dr. Singhvi, learned counsel for the appellant agreed. 94. This appeal is disposed of with the afore-mentioned directions. In the facts and circumstances of this case, however, the parties shall bear their own costs throughout.