DATE : 18th September 2021. P.C. : It is the prosecution case that, on 3rd April 2018 Senior Police

Inspector of the said Police Station received a complaint from the

complainant/intervenor Mr.Vinod K. Vishe stating that, the complainant and

his family members were apprehending threat to their lives from the Applicant

and co-accused Sachin B. Pacharkar. The said application was taken up for

enquiry and on 4th April 2018 when the crime patrolling party was on duty, at

about 6.00 pm, near Karnala Devi Mandir on the road leading to Gauripada

lake, the crime patrolling party noticed one person standing thereof in

suspicious condition. The patrolling team therefore called him near them. The

said person therefore started running from the said place when the police

party accosted him and took him into custody. During his personal search,

they found one sharp edged chopper tucked to the front side of his trouser.

The said person disclosed his name as Sachin B. Pacharkar. During the course

of his interrogation at police station, the said Sachin Pacharkar (co-accused)

disclosed that the Applicant had given him contract to kill Mr.Vinod Vishe and

for that had assured to give a residential premises worth Rs.10,00,000/- at

Titwala, Taluka Kalyan, District Thane. In this brief premise, the present crime 2/6 Osk 19-Aba-1221-2019.odt

is registered. 4. Perusal of record indicates that, during the course of investigation

of the present crime on 6th April 2018 the police have recorded statement of

witness Sujit @ Charli K. Shaji, a friend of Sachin Pacharkar (co-accused)

under Section 161 of Cr.P.C.. His statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. has

also been recorded by the learned Judicial Magistrate First Class, Kalyan on

13th April 2018. Learned A.P.P., on instructions, submitted that, the said statement

recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. of witness Sujit @ Charli Shaji now

forms part of chargesheet. Perusal of statement of said witness indicates that, Sachin

Pacharkar (co-accused) had disclosed to him that, he had made a plan to

commit murder of Vinod Vishe (intervenor) as the said Vinod Vishe on an

earlier occasion had assaulted his father and therefore he was intending to

take revenge of the same. It is also stated that, Sachin Pacharkar (co-accused)

purchased one hockey stick from a sports shop. That after purchasing the said

hockey stick, Sachin Pacharkar (co-accused) along with his friend Akshay

went away. It is to be noted here that, in the said statement it is no where

stated about a 'fire-arm' which was to be used by Sachin Pacharkar (co-

accused) in the alleged commission of present crime, provided by the 3/6 Osk 19-Aba-1221-2019.odt

Applicant. In this background, when Sachin Pacharkar (co-accused) was in

custody of police, on 5th April 2018 made a disclosure statement under Section

27 of the Indian Evidence Act and in furtherance thereof, a fire-arm (pistol)

along with two live cartridges was seized from him. In his disclosure

statement Sachin Pacharkar (co-accused) has stated that, the said fire-arm

was provided to him by the present Applicant. The Police are seeking custody

of the Applicant for knowing the fact that, from where the Applicant had

procured the said alleged fire-arm. 5. As noted earlier, the co-accused or rather prime accused Sachin

Pacharkar had disclosed his prospective plan to eliminate Vinod Vishe, as

Mr.Vinod Vishe (intervenor) had assaulted his father earlier thereto. A

separate and distinct motive has surfaced on record from the statement of the

said witness namely Sujit @ Charli Shaji. Record further indicates that, Mr.Vinod Vishe (intervenor) and

Applicant herein were partners in the construction business and subsequently

their relations got soared and due to which Vinod Vishe filed a complaint with

the concerned police station on 3rd April 2018. After lodging of the complaint

by Vinod Vishe with the said police station on 4 th April 2018, Sachin Pacharkar

(co-accused) was immediately arrested with a sharp edged chopper in his

possession. Osk 19-Aba-1221-2019.odt 6. As Sachin Pacharkar (co-accused) was also having a distinct and

substantive motive to commit murder or to eliminate Mr.Vinod Vishe, it

appears to this Court that, the motive propounded by the prosecution for

alleged preparation to commit murder of Vinod Vishe by the Applicant

assumes secondary importance in the present crime. 7. The Police after completion of investigation qua Sachin Pacharkar

(co-accused) have submitted chargesheet under Section 120(B) , 115 of the

Indian Penal Code, Sections 3 , 4 , 25 of the Indian Arms Act and Sections,

37(1) , 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act, on 1st June 2018 in the Court of

competent jurisdiction. It thus appears that, at the time of filing of the

chargesheet, Police have now dropped Section 302 of the I.P.C. and have

retained Section 115 of the I.P.C. to the present offence. 8. Learned A.P.P. submitted that, there are three antecedents at the

discredit of the Applicant. It is to be noted here that, according to this Court,

the prosecution till date has not offered any satisfactory explanation about the

exact motive behind the present crime Fand therefore the antecedents at the

discredit of the Applicant assumes no much importance while deciding the

present application. The record indicates that, in pursuance of Order dated

22nd July 2019 the Applicant has attended the Investigating Officer and has

co-operated in the process of investigation. 5/6 Osk 19-Aba-1221-2019.odt 9. In view of the above and after perusing the chargesheet, this

 Court is of the opinion that, the custodial interrogation of the Application for

 further investigation of the present crime is not necessary and the Applicant

 can be protected by pre-arrest bail. 10. Interim relief, granted by Order dated 22nd July 2019, is hereby

 confirmed. However the condition to attend the Investigating Officer is

 waived. 11. Anticipatory Bail Application is allowed in the aforesaid terms. 12. In view of disposal of Anticipatory Bail Application, Interim

 Application No. 476 of 2019 does not survive and is accordingly disposed off.