BY
THE STATE COMMISSION, (PER HON. MR.JUSTICE SUNIL KUMAR GARG,
PRESIDENT 2 This
appeal has been filed by the appellants LIC against order dated
24.4.08 passed by the District Forum, Dausa in complaint no.
290/2007 by which the complaint of the complainant was allowed in
the manner that the appellants were directed to pay a sum of Rs.
50,000/- the amount of the LIC policy alongwith interest @ 9% p.a. 
w.e.f. 15.1.07 and further to pay a sum of Rs. 1000/- as costs of
litiation. 2.	It
arises in the following circumstances- That the complainant respondent had filed a complaint
before the District Forum, Dausa on 20.12.07 inter alia stating
that his son Pradeep Kumar, now deceased had taken a Money Back Life
Insurance Policy for a sum of Rs. 50,000/- from the appellants
bearing policy no. 195001350 and a proposal form was filled in up by
the deceased on 7.11.04 and the policy had come into force w.e.f.
28.10.04 and since at the time of taking the policy the age of the
deceased was 15 years, therefore, being the natural guardian the
complainant respondent was the nominee and the policy was for 20
years and the same was to be matured on 28.4.2024. It was further
stated in the complaint that the deceased had died on 24.3.05 due
to high fever and after the death of the deceased claim was
preferred by the complainant respondent being the natural guardian 
and nominee of the deceased before the office of the appellants but
that claim was repudiated by the appellants through letter dated
15.1.07 on the ground that at the time of taking the policy in
question the deceased had filled in up a declartion form regarding
his health on 7.11.05 in which he had not mentioned that he was
suffering from 3 any kind of disease but they had the sufficient proof
to prove the fact that prior to one year before he proposed the 

 

policy, he was suffering from swelling U.E.Fistula for
which he had consulted a medical man and had taken treatment from the
hospital and undergone for operation of Fistula and since these
facts were not disclosed by the deceased in his declaration form on
7.11.04 at the time of taking the policy, therefore, the deceased
was guilty of suppression of material facts regarding his health.
Thereafter the present complaint was filed. A reply was filed by the appellants on 18.1.08 and
they have taken the same pleas which were taken by them in the
repudiation letter dated 15.1.07. It was further stated in the
reply that prior to giving the declaration regarding his health on
7.11.04 the deceased was admitted in the SMS Hospital, Jaipur on
12.8.04 where the diagnosis which was made by the doctors was
Swelling upper end- Fistula (Lt.), Pain, swelling upper end leg bone 
and he was suffering from the disease of Cancer and since these
facts were not disclosed by the deceased in his declaration form
dated 7.11.04, and further the death of the deceased had taken place
due to cancer, therefore, it was a case of suppression of material
facts regarding health on the part of the deceased and it was
prayed that claim was rightly repudiated by the appellants and
complaint be dismissed. After hearing the parties the District Forum, Dausa 

 

through impugned order dated 24.4.08 had allowed the
complaint inter alia holding that - Aggrieved from that order dated 23.9.05 passed by the
District Forum, Bikaner , this appeal has been filed by the
appellants. 3.	
In this appeal the main contention of the learned counsel for the
appellants is that before issuance of policy in question, the
deceased had given declaration regarding his health on 7.11.04 in
which he had stated that he was not suffering from any kind of
disease but the appellants had the sufficient proof to prove the fact
that the deceased was admitted in the SMS Hospital, Jaipur on
12.8.04 and undergone for operation of Fistula on 16.8.04 and he
was discharged on 17.8.04 and since these facts were not disclosed
by the deceased deliberately in his declaration form on 7.11.04 ,
therefore, he was guilty of suppression of material facts regarding
health and thus on that ground the claim of the complainant
respondent was rightly repudiated by the appellants through letter
dated 15.1.07 and the District Forum had committed serious error
and illegality in decreeing the claim of the complainant respondent.
Hence the impugned order could not be 5 sustained
and liable to be quashed and set aside and this appeal deserves to be
allowed. 4.	On
the other hand, the learned counsel appearing for the respondent has
supported the impugned order of the District Forum . 5.	We
have heard the learned counsel for the appellants as well as for the
respondent and gone through the entire materials available on record. 6.	There
is no dispute on the point that the deceased had taken 

 

a
Money Back Life Insurance Policy for a sum of Rs. 50,000/- from the
appellants bearing policy no. 195001350 on 28.10.04. 7.	There
is also no dispute on the point that at the time of taking insurance
policy , a declaration was made by the deceased and in that
declaration on 7.11.04, he had not mentioned that he was suffering
from any kind of disease or had taken any treatment from any
hospital. 8.	There
is also no dispute on the point that deceased had died on 24.3.05 
meaning thereby within two years of the sissuance of the policy. 9.	There
is no dispute on the point that the claim of the above mentioned
policy was repudiated by the appellants through letter dated 15.1.07
 on the grounds mentioned therein. 10.	On
file there is a prescription slip of Dr.R.C.Banshiwal dated 20.7.04
which shows that the deceased had consulted him 6 and
the doctor had referred the case to Bhagwan Mahaveer Cancer Hospital
and Research Centre, Jaipur for FNAC . Note-	There
is nothing on record to show that after the case was referred by Dr.
Banshiwal, the deceased was admitted in Bhagwan Mahaveer Cancer
Hospital, Jaipur or not. 11.	On
file there is an admission card of the SMS Hospital, Jaipur dated
12.8.04 by which the deceased was ordered to be admitted in NW I
Unit II and thereafter he was admitted in the hospital. 12.	On
file there is a bed head ticket of the SMS Hospital, Jaipur which
shows that the deceased was admitted in the hospital on 12.8.04 and
Swelling U.E Fistula (Lt.) was found diagnosed and he was discharged
on 17.8.04 and in the bed head ticket it was also mentioned that the
consent for surgery had been taken. 13.	On
file there is operation record of the SMS Hospital, Jaipur which
clearly shows that the deceased was being operated on 16.8.04 and
biopsy was also done. 14.
	Thus, in the facts and circumstances just narrated above, the
question for consideration is whether the findings recorded by the
District Forum by which complaint was allowed could be sustained or
not and whether the repudiation of the claim of the complainant
respondent by the appellants was justified or not. On
suppression of material facts 15.	It
may be stated here that it is the fundamental principle of 7 insurance
law that utmost good faith must be observed by the contracting
parties and good faith forbids either party from non-disclosure of
the facts which the parties known. The insured has a duty to disclose
and similarly it is the duty of the insurance company and its agents
to disclose all material facts in their knowledge since obligation of
good faith applies to both equally and in this respect, the decision
of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in M/s.Modern Insulators Ltd. Vs.
Oriental Insurance Co. (AIR 2000 SC 1014) may be referred to. 16.	The
onus probandi, in cases of fraudulent suppression of material facts
rests heavily on party alleging fraud namely the insurer. In this
respect, the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in LIC Vs. Smt.
G.M.Channabasemma (1996 (III) CPJ 8 (SC) may be referred to where it
was held that the burden of proving that the insured had made false
representation and suppressed material facts is undoubtedly on the
LIC of India. Furthermore, mere concealment of some facts will not
amount to concealment of material facts and if there is fraudulent
suppression of material facts in the proposal, the policy could be
vitiated otherwise not. 17.	Suppression
of fact must be a conscious operation of the giver of the answer
which he knowingly did not disclose. 18.	The
Hon'ble National Commission in National Insurance Co. Ltd. Vs. Bipul
Kunda (2005 CTJ 377 (CP) (NCDRC) ) has held that for repudiating a
claim of an insured, it is for the insurer to show that a sttement on
a fact, which was material for the policy, had been suppressed by
the insured and that statement was fraudulently made by him/her
with the knowledge of the falsity of that statement. 19.	As
already stated above, the death of the deceased had taken place
within two years of the issuance of the policy. 20.	It
may be stated here that where the insurer wishes to call ain question
a policy within two years of its being effected, it is enough if the
insurer is in a position to show that a statement made in the
proposal for insurance or in any report of a medical officer or
referee or friend of the insured or in any other document leading to
the issue of the policy is inaccurate or false. 21.	It
may further be stated here that even if the death takes place within
two years, mis-representation, if any, that should be material in the
sense of having some effect upon life expectation whether direct or
indirect and if it is found material, that defence could be taken by
the Insurance Company, not otherwise. 22.	The
word "misrepresentation" means suggestio falsi, in matter
of substance essentially material to the subject, whether by acts or
by words, by manoeuvres, or by positive assertions or material
concealment (suppressio veri) whereby a person is misled and
damnified. 23.	The
word "fraud" means a conduct either by letter or words,
which induces the other person, or authority to take a definite
determinative stand as a response to the conduct of former either by
word or letter. In this respect, the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in Ram Preeti Yadav Vs. UP Board of High School &
Intermediate Education and ors. (JT 2003 (Supp.I) SC 25 ) may be
referred to. 24.	It
is well settled that misrepresentation itself amounts to 9 fraud
in some cases. 25.	The
word "misconduct" means an act or conduct in the nature of
a breach of trust or an act resulting in loss to other party. 26.	The
word "suppression of fact" envisages a deliberate or
conscious omission to state of fact with the intention of deriving
wrongful gain. In this respect, the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in Collector of Customs Calcutta Vs. Tin Plate Co. of India
Ltd. ( (1997) 10 SCC 538 ) may be referred to. 27.	Keeping
the above legal position and definitions in mind, if the facts of the
present case are examined, it clearly appears that the appellants LIC
have proved the facts by producing cogent and reliable evidence that
prior to filling in up the declaration form on 7.11.04, the deceased
was having some problem of Fistula in left leg for which he had
consulted medical man and had gone for operation in the SMS Hospital,
Jaipur on 16.8.04 for the disease of Fistula and thus it could be
held that these facts were intentionally, knowingly and deliberately
not disclosed by the deceased in his declaration form dated 7.11.04
and thus, it was a case of suppression of material facts regarding
health on the part of the deceased. 28.	In
our considered opinion, looking to the fact that the declaration from
regarding health was filled in up by the deceased on 7.11.04 in which
he had stated that he was not suffering from any kind of disease but
from the record which had been mentioned above, it is very much clear
that the deceased was having some problem of swelling U.E Fistula
(Lt.) for which he had first consulted Dr. R.C. Banshiwal on 20.7.04
 and thereafter he was 10 admitted
in the SMS Hospital, Jaipur on 12.8.04 and was discharged on 17.8.04
and operation had taken place on 16.8.04 and biopsy was also done. 29.	It
may further be stated here that suppression of the fact of operation,
whether it was for the serious disease or not, would certainly amount
to suppression of material facts regarding health on the part of the
deceased, if the same was not mentioned in the declaration form
regarding health which was filled in up at the time of taking the
policy and since in this case the deceased had suppressed the fact
of operation of Swelling U.E. Fistula (Lt.) and therefore, it was 
a case of suppression of material facts regarding health on the part
of the deceased and for that the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of P.C. Chacko and anr. Vs. Life Insurance
Corporation of India and ors. decided on 20.11.07 ( AIR 2008 SC
424 ) may be referred to. 30.	In
this case no doubt biopsy was done but what was the report of the
biopsy had not been produced and in absence of that case of cancer
could not be found established but since prior to giving the
declaration regarding health on the part of the deceased , the
deceased had gone for operation on 16.8.04 while being admitted in
the SMS Hospital, Jaipur and since this fact was not mentioned by the
deceased in the declaration form dated 7.11.04 , therefore, from
every point of view it would amount to suppression of material facts
regarding health on the part of the deceased. 31.	For
the reasons stated above, it is held that repudiation of claim of
complainant respondent by the appellants through letter dated 15.1.07
 on ground of suppression of material facts 11 regarding
health by the deceased was justified and no illegality or
irregularity has been committed by the appellants in repudiating the
claim of complainant respondent and in view of this, the findings of
the District Forum decreeing the claim of the complainant respondent
could not be sustained and the same are liable to be quashed and set
aside as they are wholly illegal, erroneous and perverse one and the
appeal deserves to be allowed. Accordingly, the appeal filed by the appellants LIC is
allowed and the impugned order dated 24.4.08 passed by the District
Forum, Dausa is quashed and set aside and the complaint filed by the
complainant respondent stands dismissed.