The instant
application is filed requesting quashing of the FIR being C.R. No.
I-10/2010 registered with Gandhinagar Zone Police Station regarding
the offences punishable under section 406, 409, 420, 465, 467, 468,
471, 477-A and 120[B] of the Indian Penal Code [ IPC ] and section 46 of the Banking Regulations Act. 2.		The respondent no. 2
herein, who is the original complainant, lodged the aforesaid FIR on
31/5/2010, briefly stating that at the time when the FIR came to be
lodged, he was in-charge Regional Manager at Surat in the Gujarat
Industrial Cooperative Bank Ltd., [hereinafter referred to as 'the
bank']. He lodged the FIR against many accused persons who can be
broadly divided into two categories, namely some of the officers and
office bearers of the bank itself and the borrowers. Perusing the
FIR, it further transpires that the alleged incident occurred at
Parsi Street Branch of the bank located at Surat. In the FIR, it is
further stated that the different incidents for which the FIR came to
be lodged occurred between the years 2000 and March 2008. In the FIR,
it is further stated that the alleged fraud and alleged
misappropriation on large scale came to the surface when a team of
Reserve Bank of India [RBI] inspected the accounts of the bank. It
further transpires that the said inspection took place between March
2007 and 2008 and pursuant to the report of the team, different
offences having been committed with the bank by some of the officers
of the bank and other office bearers, namely Managing Director, etc.,
of the bank, so also by the borrowers of the different loans came to
be revealed. The FIR runs into nearly 15 pages wherein different
modes and modus operandi are narrated, which allegedly adopted by
some of the officers of the bank and other office bearers of the bank
and by the borrowers of the bank, who are arraigned as accused
persons in the FIR. In the FIR, briefly narrating different incidents
and the modus operandi adopted by the accused persons to defraud the
bank to the tune of Rs.106.92 crore, ultimately it is stated that
those officers and office bearers of the bank, while considering the
assets of the borrowers as non-banking assets and at the time of
undertaking sale, RBI norms and guidelines were not adhered to and
certain resolutions came to be passed disregarding such guidelines
and the original accused no. 1 Mr. AK Raval, who was at the relevant
time serving as Regional Manager of the bank, in collusion with other
accused persons, who are arraigned as borrowers and with a view to
defraud the bank, without taking appropriate securities and knowing
fully well that the accused persons, who are borrowers, presented a
false and fabricated valuation certificates, yet disregarding the
norms of the bank, huge amount of loans were granted to the borrowers - accused persons in the name of their fictitious firms.
Describing the modes and modus operandi allegedly adopted by all the
accused persons referred in the FIR, in the last para., of the FIR,
it is stated that a large-scale conspiracy came to be hatched by all
the accused persons to defraud the bank to the tune of Rs.106.92
crore and all the accused, therefore, according to the FIR, are
responsible for the offences alleged against them. 2.1.		Mr. PM Thakkar,
Ld. Sr. Counsel with Mr. PH Pathak, Ld. Advocate for the petitioners,
who are six in number in this petition, at the outset, submitted that
the bare perusal of the FIR would suggest that prima-facie no offence
is made out against the petitioners, who are collectively arraigned
as accused no. 23 and accused no. 42 in the FIR. No role is
attributed to all or any of the petitioners accused in the FIR as to
how and in what manner they allegedly committed the offences. Mr.
Thakkar, Ld. Sr. Counsel read over the FIR and submitted that very
general and vague statements are there in the FIR, but the major
allegation appears to have been levelled by the respondent no. 2 -
complainant against the original accused no. 1 - Mr. AK Raval,
who at the relevant time, happened to be the Regional Manager of the
bank. It is submitted that so far as the opening of 48 bogus accounts
were concerned, in the FIR, it has been specifically averred by the
complainant that those bogus 48 accounts came to be opened up by the
original accused no. 1 and that the concerned account holders were
not knowing that in their names bogus accounts were opened. It is
submitted that if at all, while sanctioning any loan RBI norms and
the guidelines are not strictly adhered to by any officer of the
bank, that would not be sufficient to involve him in connection with
any offence, but at the most, that would amount to lapse in discharge
of his duty inviting at the most disciplinary action. 2.2.		Mr. Thakkar, Ld.
Sr. Counsel, perusing the FIR, stated that so far as the petitioners
are concerned, 4 alleged bogus accounts are attributed collectively
in their names, but in the FIR itself the complainant says that the
account holders had no knowledge about such bogus accounts. My
attention was drawn to two tables which are there on internal page 5
in the FIR and submitted that the complainant tried to show in the
FIR that by opening 4 bogus accounts, the petitioners attempted to
misappropriate an amount to the tune of Rs.1.5 crore, but the
complainant himself states in the FIR that the account holders were
not knowing about any bogus account. 2.3.		Mr. Thakkar, Ld.
Sr. Counsel drew my attention to certain averments made in the FIR
regarding B.P.M facility [Bill Purchase Miscellaneous] and in the FIR
it has been stated that certain fraud having been committed by the
original accused no. 1 pursuant to the common conspiracy hatched by
all the accused persons, but it is submitted that no details are
given and the allegations are vague and general in nature. Mr.
Thakkar, Ld. Sr. Counsel drew my attention to certain averments made
in the FIR on internal page no. 9 that the original accused no. 1 Mr.
Raval unauthorizedly sanctioned the loans and at serial no. 12 the
name of one of the petitioners is stated, who received the benefit of
such loan, but again no details are there. Referring to internal page
10 in the FIR, it has been submitted that the complainant in his FIR
stated that certain over draft facility, ignoring the guidelines and
norms, have been granted by the original accused no. 1 Mr. Raval to
different account holders and in the table referred to on internal
page 10 in the FIR, at serial nos. 3, 4 and 5 certain concerns of the
petitioners are referred, but only vague and general allegations are
levelled, which otherwise do not constitute any offence. Mr. Thakkar,
Ld. Sr. Counsel drew my attention to the table given in the FIR at
page 11 and stated that the table leads us to no-where to come to
even prima facie conclusion that any ingredient of any offence
alleged in the FIR can be said to have been prima-facie revealed. 2.4.		Mr. Thakkar, Ld.
Sr. Counsel drew my attention to Annexure- A [page 10] in the
petition and submitted that as per the statement, lastly a loan was
taken in the year 2004 and thereafter, no loan was taken. It is
submitted that upto 2004 towards the outstanding amount,
approximately Rs.4.5 crore have been repaid by the petitioners and
even thereafter, the repayment came to be made upto the year 2010 and
to substantiate said submission, my attention was drawn to
affidavit-in-rejoinder filed by the petitioner no. 1 and certain
documents annexed with said rejoinder affidavit and it is submitted
that this shows the bonafide of the petitioner that his intention was
not to defraud the bank. It is submitted that considering the
relevant documents annexed with the affidavit-in-rejoinder of the
petitioner, it would clearly transpires that certain MOUs came to be
executed by the petitioner with the bank which even bear signature of
the complainant himself. Mr. Thakkar, Ld. Sr. Counsel submitted that
as a matter of fact, the complainant himself was serving in the bank
at the relevant time and even his conduct cannot be said to be out of
doubt. 2.5.		Mr. Thakkar, Ld.
Sr. Counsel for the petitioners further submitted that in the FIR
what is described is modes and modus operandi of the accused to
defraud the bank, though do not prima-facie disclose commission of
any offence, but in a way tells about the functioning of cooperative
bank because so far as the cooperative bank is concerned, though it
is bound to follow the RBI norms, but some rigid and technical
approach may not be there when an account holder has to deal with
such cooperative bank. It is submitted that the petitioner had
dealing with this bank since last about 20 to 25 years and the
petitioner and his family members are holding assets and properties
including the mills and, therefore, it cannot be said that from day
one the petitioner came in contact with the bank, his intention was
to cheat the bank. 2.6.		Mr. Thakkar, Ld.
Sr. Counsel for the petitioners drew my attention to the definitions
of the different offences alleged in the FIR and submitted that the
perusal of the FIR would not prima facie satisfy any of the
ingredients of any of the offences. 2.7.		Mr. Thakkar, Ld.
Sr. Counsel for the petitioners further submitted that the FIR
suffers from a delay factor in the sense that the incident alleged in
the FIR allegedly occurred between 2000 and 2008 and the FIR came
to be lodged in the year 2010. 2.8.		Mr. Thakkar, Ld.
Sr. Counsel for the petitioners further submitted that the perusal of
the entire FIR would suggest that certain alleged fraud, cheating,
etc., came to be committed while sanctioning loan or while granting
over draft facility, etc., and certain breach came to be committed
qua such facility, but that at the most can be said to be a breach of
contractual obligation for which civil remedy is available. It is
submitted that in the instant case, since the debt became time
barred, the complainant adopted a short method of recovering the time
barred debt by using the police machinery by filing the FIR. 2.9.		Mr. Thakkar, Ld.
Sr. Counsel for the petitioners asserted that when the FIR does not
disclose commission of any offence by the petitioners, the FIR
deserves to be quashed. It is submitted that even if at this stage,
the FIR is quashed, the prosecution will not be remedyless as during
the course of trial, if any material is disclosed which will show
involvement of all or any of the petitioners, remedy is available
to the prosecution to invoke relevant provisions laid down under the Code of Criminal Procedure including the remedy available under section 319 of the Code of Criminal Procedure [hereinafter referred
to as 'the Cr. P.C.']. 2.10.		Mr. Thakkar, Ld.
Sr. Counsel for the petitioners, drawing my attention to relevant
documents annexed with this petition, submitted that in the year
2005, treating this as special transaction, the petitioner was
directed by the bank to stop the production in his mill and the mill
remained close from 1/8/2005 to 1/7/2006 and the bank had taken
possession. Thus, it is submitted that it cannot be said that the
loan was granted to the petitioner either on account of absence of
any security or inadequate security and that the petitioner did not
express his bonafide for repayment of loan. 2.11.		Mr. Thakkar, Ld.
Sr. Counsel for the petitioners, in support of his submissions,
relied upon certain decisions which shall be discussed in this order
at the relevant time. 3.		Mr. Sunit Shah, Ld.
Counsel for Mr. KJ Panchal, Ld. Advocate for the respondent no. 2 -
original complainant, perusing the FIR submitted that the FIR
discloses serious offences at this stage against all the accused
persons referred in the FIR including the petitioners. It is
submitted that considering the FIR, it would clearly transpires that
all the accused persons, joining their hands with accused no. 1 Mr.
Raval, then Regional Manager, committed serious offences, which have
put the bank to a great loss. It is submitted that in the FIR, in
brief, the modes and modus operandi adopted by all the accused
persons to defraud the bank are narrated, but it is submitted that
such fraud came to the surface only when the RBI team inspected the
bank accounts and filed its report. It is submited that as a matter
of fact, it can safely be said that the FIR discloses the scam of
multi crores of rupees relating to the bank. My attention was drawn
to reply affidavit of the respondent no. 2 and the documents annexed
with the reply affidavit and more particularly a statement produced
at page 128. It is submitted that the perusal of said statement
would suggest that 6 petitioners formed 21 different concerns, mode
of supplying funds to them by the bank, their account numbers,
opening date of their accounts, date of syphoning funds, the amount
syphoned, interest on the syphoning amount and the total amount to be
recovered, are mentioned, which would suggest that adopting the modes
and modalities stated in the FIR, the petitioners in-all syphoned
approximately Rs.16 crore and with interest it may come to about
Rs.22 crore. Mr. Shah submitted that during the course of
investigation, while the statement of one of the officers of the bank
was recorded, the said statement was submitted to the Investigating
Officer so that he can investigate the FIR on a right track. 3.1.		Mr. Shah asserted
that instant FIR can never be said to be belated one in the sense
that all the accused persons, by hatching a conspiracy during the
period from the year 2000 to 2008 syphoned huge amount of the bank,
but the offences came to the surface when the team of the RBI audited
the accounts and filed its audit report in the year 2008. It is
submitted that in January 2009, the bank sent a detailed
communication to the Economic Cell of the Police and subsequently the
same came to be registered in the year 2010 as FIR. Mr. Shah
submitted that the petitioners tried to submit that the amounts more
than Rs. 4 crore have been repaid by them towards the outstanding
amount, but the said repayment was towards three regular accounts and
not towards bogus accounts. Mr. Shah drew my attention that even the
Central Government filed criminal complaint against the petitioners
for commission of serious offences. Mr. Shah submitted that the
petitioners, in conspiracy with the original accused no. 1 Mr. Raval,
concocted false cheques and through the mode of BPM allegedly
presented the cheques which came to be purchased by the bank, but
thereafter, these cheques were never presented for encashment, but
the loan facility was availed of as against those cheques. My
attention was drawn to xerox copies of such cheques collectively
produced with the reply affidavit of the respondent no. 2. It is
further submitted that the FIR suggests that even in absence of any
F.D., the petitioners obtained the facility of loan. It is submitted
that the petitioners are not denying basic fact, even at this stage,
that they obtained financial benefits from the bank. As per the FIR,
such financial benefits were obtained by the petitioners by
committing various offences alleged against them. It is submitted
that only because in the FIR about bogus accounts, it is stated that
the account holders had no knowledge about such bogus accounts, the
entire FIR cannot be quashed for the simple reason that as per the
allegation of the complainant, such bogus accounts were opened by the
original accused no. 1 Mr. Raval as a part of conspiracy hatched by
him with the accused persons including the petitioners. It is,
therefore, submitted that the various modes and modus operandi
adopted by the accused persons, briefly narrated in the FIR, clearly
constitute the offences alleged against them. It is submitted that
the FIR cannot be termed as encyclopedia of entire prosecution case,
but it must disclose criminal offence and the perusal of the FIR
would suggest that the criminal offences alleged against the accused
are prima facie made out. When such is the situation, it cannot be
said that the petitioners entered into bonafide transactions with the
bank and the dispute is a civil dispute. Mr. Shah, Ld. Advocate for
the respondent no. 2 relied upon certain decision, which shall be
discussed in this order at appropriate time. Mr. Shah ultimately
submitted that in the instant matter, so far as the petitioners are
concerned, the police investigation is going on and during the course
of investigation, required materials in the form of documents, etc.,
are to be collected by the police, in support of the FIR. Therefore,
it is submitted that at this stage, if the FIR is quashed, the bank,
which was a public institution, handling public money, may suffer
great prejudice. It is submitted that because of such fraud practiced
by all the accused persons including the petitioners, ultimately the
bank stood closed since 2008. It is, therefore, submitted that the
petition may be dismissed. 4.		Mr. Raval, Ld. APP
for the respondent no. 1 - State submitted that pursuant to the
FIR, till date two different charge-sheets are filed covering in-all
42 accused persons and for remaining 16 accused persons including the
petitioners, the investigation is going on and required materials are
collected and for that purpose my attention was drawn to the
statements of two officers of the bank, namely Mr. GK Desai and Mr SK
Patel and it is submitted that during the course of their statements,
the statement annexed at page 128 in the petition with the reply
affidavit of the respondent no. 2 has been collected by the police.
It is, therefore, submitted that the petition may be dismissed. 5.		Having
considered the submissions advanced on behalf of both the sides, so
also considering the FIR, prima-facie as per the FIR, the bank
sustained loss to the extent of Rs.106.92 crore. In the FIR,
respondent No.2 complaint discussed various modes and modus operandi
allegedly adopted by the accused persons to defraud the bank, taking
the help of original accused No.1 Mr.KP Raval, who at the relevant
time, was Regional Manager of the bank. In the FIR, the petitioners
are collectively referred as accused Nos.23 and 42. As stated above
in the FIR, various offences, namely, breach of trust, cheating,
forgery, creating false documents, conspiracy etc. are alleged. As
stated above, though as per the FIR, through various modes and modus
operandi, allegedly adopted by all the accused persons, large amount
of the bank came to be misappropriated between the period from year
2000 to 2008, but as per the FIR, the fraud came to the surface only
when a team of R.B.I. inspected and audited the account of the bank
and filed final report on 30.5.2008. The perusal of the FIR in
nutshell would reveal that 48 bogus accounts were opened in the bank
and so far as the petitioners are concerned, four false and bogus
accounts were opened. It is true that in the FIR, at one place, on
internal page No.5, it is stated that said bogus accounts were opened
by original accused No.1 and the account holders had no knowledge
about the accounts, but reading the FIR as a whole, it transpires
that out of the said alleged four bogus accounts, as per the table
given at internal page No.5 of the FIR, it transpires that about
Rs.1.5 crore stood outstanding qua the petitioners. Almost same is
the situation if the mode and modus operandi to defraud the bank
through B.P.M. facility narrated in the FIR is considered. In the
FIR, it is further stated that the original accused No.1 Mr.Raval
sanctioned the loan disregarding the R.B.I. guidelines and norms and
even the internal guidelines of the bank, namely, the application of
the applicants shall be first scrutinized by the bank, then by the
Regional Manager, then by the Regional Committee and then by Higher
Authority. At internal page No.10 in the FIR, through overdraft
facilities, how bank was defrauded is narrated by giving a table and
at Sr.Nos.3, 4 and 5 through the different firms of the petitioners,
it transpires that large amount came to be disbursed and found due.
Further the detailed table is given on internal page No.11 in the FIR
wherein different firms of the petitioners are described and the
outstanding dues towards the loan procured allegedly by practicing
fraud and through overdraft facilities are referred to at Sr.
Nos.15,16,18,21,22, 23,24,25,26,27,28 and 33. It is further stated in
the FIR by the above-said table that through the cheque purchase
mode, bogus cheques were allegedly obtained by accused No.1 and as
against the accounts wherein overdraft facilities were sanctioned, in
computer, overdraft limits were allegedly changed at the instance of
the original accused No.1 in collusion with the accused persons.
Ultimately, in the last paragraph of the FIR, in nutshell, the gist
is given as to how all the accused persons, hatched a conspiracy to
defraud the bank. The large amount to the extent of Rs.106.92 crore
came to be swindled out. 6.		There
is no dispute that when an application is filed u/s.482 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure, pending the investigation, to quash the FIR,
the first and foremost thing which this Court has to consider is as
to whether the FIR reveals, prima-facie, any criminal offence or not.
As stated above, in the FIR, variety of offences, namely, criminal
breach of trust, cheating, forgery, creating false documents,
conspiracy etc. are alleged. How and by adopting which mode and modus
operandi by the accused persons, including the petitioners in
collusion with the original accused No.1 Mr. Raval, allegedly
defrauded the bank have been narrated in the FIR. The respondent No.2
in his reply affidavit, contested this petition and along with his
reply affidavit, a detailed statement is annexed at page 128 whereby
it is tried to be submitted that all the petitioners, by opening
different accounts in the names of 21 different concerns, defrauded
the bank to a large extent. At this stage, Mr. Raval, learned APP for
respondent No.1 drew my attention to the statements of two bank
officers, namely, Mr. JK Desai and Mr. SK Patel, but when the instant
petition is filed only on the basis of the FIR, it would not be
appropriate for this Court to consider these two statements recorded
by police during the pendency of police investigation. However, this
Court would definitely consider the statements only for the limited
purpose that the statement annexed by the opponent No.2 with his
reply affidavit, produced at page 128, has been supplied by these
witnesses to the police during the course of investigation. 7.		It
is true that in the case of Mohammed Ibrahim and Others Vs.State
of Bihar and Anr. reported in
(2010)1 GLH 184, the
Hon'ble Apex Court, in a matter arising from a discharge proceeding,
elaborately discussed the definition of criminal breach of trust,
forgery, cheating and offence relating to false document and took
into consideration as to whether in the facts and circumstances of
said case, the alleged offences can be said to have been prima-facie
committed or not. However, the said case pertained to execution of
sale-deed, allegedly executed by vendors, who had no right, title or
interest in the property transferred. The decision rendered in
Mohammed Ibrahim's case (supra) came to be followed by this Court in
the case of Maheshkumar Hiralal Barot & Anr.Vs.State of
Gujarat & Ors. decided by
this Court on 01.12.2011 in Criminal Misc. Application
Nos.6322 of 2010 with Criminal Misc. Application No.10341 of 2010.
However, considering the facts
of said case, decided by this Court, again it transpires that a
quashing petition was filed u/s.482 of the Cr.P.C., pertaining to the
offence, which had arisen on account of execution of sale-deed by the
vendors in favour of buyers, regarding the property, in which
allegedly the vendors had no right or title. 8. In
the case of CBI Vs. Duncan Agro Industries Ltd. Calcutta reported in AIR 1996 SC 2452,
in a quashing matter, Hon'ble the Apex Court in paragraph 26 observed
that for the purpose of
quashing the complaint, it is necessary to consider whether the
allegations in the complaint prima-facie made out an offence or not.
As stated above, at this stage, considering the FIR as a whole, it
cannot be said that the FIR does not disclose prima-facie the
offences alleged against the accused. 9. In
the case of Dalip Kaur & Ors. Vs. Jagnar Singh and Anr. reported in (2009)14 SCC 696
Hon'ble the Apex Court in a quashing of complaint matter, examined
the ingredient of the offence of cheating and observed that
fraudulent or dishonest intention must exist from the very inception
when the promise or representation was made. It has been further
observed that non-refunding of amount of advance which results in
simply a breach of contract and does not constitute cheating. There
cannot be any dispute regarding the proposition propounded by the
Hon'ble Apex Court, but in the instant matter, in the facts and
circumstances of this case, and more particularly perusing the FIR,
prima-facie it becomes clear that this is not simplicitor a case of
breach of promise. 10.		In
a quashing of complaint petition, regarding the offence of cheating,
punishable u/s.420 of the IPC, in the case of Hotline
Teletubes and Components Ltd. & Ors. Vs. State of Bihar &
Ors. reported in (2005)10
SCC 261 almost similar is the
observation made by the Hon'ble Apex Court that mere refusal by
accused to pay price for goods received from the complainant does not
amount to offence of cheating and it was held that the case was one
purely of civil liability. In the facts and circumstances of the
case, in the instant matter, perusing the FIR, at this stage, it
cannot be said that the instant case is purely of civil liability. 11.		In
the case of Alpic Finance Ltd. Vs.P.Sadasivan & Anr.
reported in (2001)3 SCC 513, in
a quashing of complaint matter, Hon'ble the Apex Court observed that
the complaint must disclose essential ingredients of the offence
alleged. Perusing the complaint in said matter, Hon'ble the Apex
Court observed that in said case, there was no allegation that there
was a fraud or dishonest inducement on the part of the accused. In
that context, it was further observed that even the accused persons
have paid substantial amount towards the consideration. In the
instant matter, drawing my attention to Annexure A, page 10, on
behalf of the petitioners, it has been submitted that the last loan
was obtained in the year 2004 and even upto 2004, about Rs.4.5 crore
have been paid to the bank,
and in the year 2005, for the time being, the mill of the petitioner
came to be closed by the direction of the bank and later on it was
reopened and till 2010, in all, approximately Rs.10 crore have been
repaid by the petitioners as against the outstanding amount. My
attention was further drawn to Annexure-I, rejoinder filed by the
petitioner No.1 and the papers annexed with said Annexure-I
rejoinder, and more particularly, different MoUs executed in the year
1999, 2004 and 2009 and it is submitted that those MoUs bear the
signature of the complainant. It transpires that such documents are
even otherwise subject matter of police investigation, and through
these documents, at this stage, what is intended to be submitted on
behalf of the petitioners is this that there was no intention of the
petitioners to cheat the bank and whatever transactions, which came
to be entered into between the petitioners and the bank was bonafide
mercantile transaction. At this stage, as stated above, to decide
whether the FIR is required to be quashed or not, normally the
averments made in the FIR are required to be considered. It is
further clear that at this stage, the Court has not to enter into a
detailed inquiry as to whether the allegations made in the FIR are
true or false. 12.		Mr.
Shah, learned advocate for respondent No.2 relied upon a case of Sushil Suri Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation & Anr. reported in (2011)5 SCC 708
and submitted that in a matter concerning a bank scam, Delhi High
Court rejected the quashing of FIR and charge-sheet application filed
by one of the accused persons, who was borrower and whose application u/s.482 of the Cr.P.C. came to be dismissed. When the matter was
carried before the Hon'ble the Apex Court, the Hon'ble Apex Court
observed that there was overwhelming material available on record
showing that the Company and its Directors along with other persons
conspired to forge, fabricate and use documents, in order to avail
loan from the bank. In paragraph 9 in said decision, Hon'ble the Apex
Court observed that merely because the Company and its Directors had
repaid the loan to the bank, they could not be exonerated of the
offences committed by them, at this stage. However, Mr. Thakkar,
learned senior counsel for the petitioners submitted that considering
the FIR in said case, there was clear allegation of forgery and
creating false documents levelled against said petitioners accused,
whereas so far as the instant FIR is concerned, no such clear
allegations are there. Now, the brief contents of the FIR in the
instant case have been discussed and dealt with above in this order,
which would prima-facie
reveal the mode and modus operandi and the means by which the alleged
misappropriation of huge amount was made by the accused persons. In
the FIR, there is also the allegation that as a part of the
conspiracy, even the electronic records in the computer allegedly
came to be altered and advances were made on the basis of forged
cheques and bogus valuation reports. Under such circumstances, mere
fact that part payment is made towards the outstanding amount, at
this stage, considering the FIR as it is, it cannot be said that this
fact is relevant to quash the FIR. 13.		Mr.Thakkar,
learned senior counsel for the petitioners submitted that the concept
of vicarious liability is quite unknown to the criminal
jurisprudence. It is submitted that in the instant case, all the
family members, including even the daughters are arraigned as
co-accused persons, who are petitioners herein. At this stage, there
is no reference in the FIR that the lady member of the family played
any role in the various incidents narrated in the FIR. In support
thereof, my attention was drawn to the case of M/s. Thermax
Ltd. Vs. K.M.Johny reported in
J.T. 2011(11) SC 241. In
paragraph 15 in its decision, Hon'ble the Apex Court relying upon an
earlier decision of the Apex Court, examined the ingredients
of Section 34 and Section 35 of the IPC and observed that a common
intention refers to a prior concert or meeting of minds. It is
submitted that in the instant case, the perusal of the FIR would
reveal that even no allegation is made in it about any prior concert
or meeting of minds on the part of the petitioners. In paragraph 21
in said decision, it has been specifically observed that the concept
of vicarious liability is unknown to Criminal Law. Mr. Thakkar,
learned senior counsel submitted that perusing the FIR, neither
specific allegation is made against any of the petitioners nor any
specific role is attributed to them in connection with any of the
offences alleged against them. In this respect, perusing the FIR, as
stated above, various modes and modus operandi adopted by the accused
with the help of the original accused No.1 have been elaborately
narrated. As stated above, whatever is narrated in the FIR qua the
petitioners, have been elaborately tabularized in a statement
produced by the respondent No.2 complainant in this matter at page
128 along with his affidavit-in-reply and as submitted by Mr. Raval,
learned APP for respondent No.1 State, during the course of
investigation, through the statements of officers of the bank, the
police collected said statements wherein the names of the
petitioners, prima-facie
revealed as against 21 firms, whose accounts were opened in the bank
by adopting the modes and modalities described in the FIR and the
amount allegedly misappropriated and swindled. Under such
circumstances, at this stage, when this much of material is
forthcoming from the FIR and the police investigation is pending,
this Court is of the opinion that it would be too premature to quash
the FIR as requested by the petitioners. 14.		Mr.
Thakkar, learned senior counsel with Mr. Pathak, learned advocate for
the petitioners submitted that as per the FIR, the alleged incident
occurred between the year 2000 to 2008, whereas FIR came to be lodged
in the year 2010 and, therefore, it is a suspiciously belated FIR. In
this respect, my attention was drawn to a case of Vijay
Hathising Shah Vs. The State of Gujarat & Ors. decided by this Court on dated 1.2.2011 in Criminal Misc.
Application No.13045 of 2006 with Criminal Misc. Application No.14831
of 2006. In the said case, the
FIR came to be lodged approximately after 18 years from the date of
the alleged offence. The complainant had knowledge about the
commission of the offence, yet, the FIR came to be lodged after the
lapse of 18 years. In the instant matter, it is true that, as per the
FIR, the alleged offence took place between the year
2000 and March 2008 and the FIR came to be lodged on 31.5.2010. The
perusal of the FIR would reveal that only when the team of R.B.I.
audited and inspected the account of the bank and when the final
report was submitted on dated 30.5.2008, modus operandi adopted to
misappropriate large amount of the bank and the bank scam came to the
surface. Mr. Shah, learned advocate for the respondent No.2
complainant submitted that as soon as in the report, those facts came
to the surface, in January 2009, the bank sent a communication to
Economic Cell and the same subsequently came to be registered as FIR
on 31.5.2010. Considering the above facts, at this stage, it cannot
be said that the FIR is suspiciously belated FIR, so that the same
deserves to be quashed by exercising the inherent powers u/s.482 of
the Cr. P.C. 15.		Mr.
Shah, learned advocate for respondent No.2 complainant relied upon a
case of Ram Narayan Popli Vs. CBI reported
in (2003)3 SCC 641. Perusing said decision, it transpires that at the end of a trial,
conviction came to be recorded for various offences regarding
criminal breach of trust by public servant, cheating, forgery etc.
pertaining to bank scam matter. However, the relevance of this
decision is only to a limited extent in the instant petition u/s.482
of the Cr. P.C., that in that matter, it was one of the submissions
on the part of the accused that a repayment was made. Hon'ble the
Apex Court in paragraph 358 in said decision observed that the
repayment itself is not an indication of lack of dishonest intention. 16.		In the above view
of the matter, this Court is of the opinion that the instant petition
u/s.482 of the Cr. P.C., requesting quashing of the FIR deserves to
be dismissed. It is hereby made clear that whatever observations
which are made by this Court in this order, are confined only to
decide as to whether the FIR, by exercising the inherent powers
vested in this Court u/s.482 of the Cr. P.C should be quashed or not.
In above view of the matter, by making this observation, this Court
is of the opinion that the petition deserves to be dismissed. 17.		For the foregoing
reasons, the petition stands dismissed. Notice is discharged. 18.		At
this juncture, Mr. Pathak, learned advocate for the petitioners
requests that the interim order earlier passed by this Court to the
effect that the petitioners shall not be arrested in connection with
the impugned complaint without permission of this Court, may be
continued for a limited
period so as to enable the petitioners to move the higher forum. 19.		Considering the
facts and circumstances of the case and in light of the above
discussions, and further the fact that alternative efficacious remedy
is available under the Cr. P.C., this request is not accepted. (J.C.UPADHYAYA,
J.)
 

 

 

*
Pansala.