This appeal of assessee for Asst. Year 2011-12 is directed
against the order of ld. Commissioner of Income Tax(A)-II, Surat,
dated 03/12/2015 vide appeal no.CAS/II/104/2014-15 arising out of
order u/s 143(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (in short the Act) framed
on 29.04.2014 by ACIT-4, Surat. Following grounds have been raised
by assessee :- identity, genuineness and creditworthiness have been established, there was no
 justification for making any addition. (3) The appellant submits that in view of the fact that the appellant had filed
 confirmation, P.A. No., copy of audited accounts (showing source of
 investment in the appellant company and all related evidence), there was no
 justification for confirming the addition by the learned Commissioner of
 Income-tax (Appeals). (4) The appellant further submits that if at all the department felt that the investing
 companies were bogus companies, the proceedings should have been initiated
 against those companies as held by Supreme Court in case of Lovely Export
 Pvt. Ltd. (216-CTR-195). (5) The appellant further submits that the learned Commissioner of Income-tax
 (Appeals) has applied law which came into effect as per amendment from
 A.Y.2013-14 in A.Y.2011-12. (6) Without prejudice to the above, since share capital is capital receipt, there was
 no justification for making any addition. (II) Miscellaneous: The appellant craves leave to add, alter or vary any of the grounds of appeal. 2. Briefly stated facts as culled out from the records are that the
assessee is a private limited company engaged in the business of
manufacturing texturised yarn. It filed its return of income on
30.09.2011 declaring total income of Rs.4,60,61,110/-. Case was
selected for scrutiny assessment and notice u/s 143(2) of the Act
dated 31.07.2012 followed by notice u/s 142(1) of the Act along with ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 3 Asst. Year 2011-12

questionnaire was duly issued and served upon the assessee. Gross
turnover of the Company for the Asst. Year 2011-12 stood at
Rs.189.98 crores. During the course of assessment proceedings ld.
Assessing Officer observed that assessee had received share capital
and share premium from various persons including corporates. Ld.
Assessing Officer did not raise any objection towards the identity,
creditworthiness and genuineness of share applicants towards share
application money and premium paid except for the following three
companies which apparently in his view were appearing to be
paper/shell companies :- 700001. th
2 Cap Vanijya Pvt. Ltd. 14-C, 4 AABCC3989 30000 150000
 Floor, Maharshi Devendra Road,
 Kolkata-700007. 3 Sadashukh Dealers Pvt. Ltd. 6-A, AAKCS9420P 500000 200000
 Raja Subodh Malik Squire, Kolkata- 3. Notices u/s 133(6) of the Act were issued to the above three
parties which were duly served. Necessary details including
addresses, PAN, bank statements, income-tax return, audited
balance sheets and confirmations of accounts were placed on record
by the assessee. During assessment proceedings ld. Assessing
Officer came across the statement u/s 131 of the Act given by
director of one of the alleged company M/s Cap Vanijya Pvt. Ltd.
recorded by DDIT(Inv) Wing, Kolkata. In this statement Mr. Anjani
Banka, director of Cap Vanijya Pvt. Ltd. accepted that other than Cap ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 4 Asst. Year 2011-12

Vanijya (P) Ltd. he is director in other companies also which are
under the control and management of Mr. Manohar Lal Nangalia.
Further the statement of Mr. Manohar Lal Nangalia has also been
recorded in which he has accepted that companies are actually
controlled by him and the companies are paper/shell companies. Mr.
Manohar Lal Nangalia also categorically accepted that Cap Vanijya
(P) Ltd. is a paper/shell company amongst others. Ld. Assessing
Officer on the basis of these statements examined the balance
sheets and profit and loss accounts and observed that a common
modus operandi was followed by alleged three companies which
were having no fixed assets, meager income vis-à-vis the share
capital and premium. In the bank statements of these companies
there are only transfer entries but having no sign of regular business
activities and investments made in share capital of various
companies are not fetching any income. In view of this ld. Assessing
Officer observed that alleged three companies which have made
huge investments in share capital of other companies but the bank
statements are conspicuously replete with deposits and withdrawals
of the same amounts in a short span of one or two days which shows
that these companies are just acting as a conduit of funds with no
real business and accordingly made an addition of Rs.61,00,000/- u/s
68 of the Act towards unexplained cash credit of the alleged three
companies. Asst. Year 2011-12

3.1. Aggrieved, assessee went in appeal before ld. Commissioner of
Income Tax(A) by making sincere efforts to convince ld.
Commissioner of Income Tax(A) that assessee company is having a
huge turnover, regular business activities, premium charged on share
capital are genuinely calculated, received by account payee cheques,
the alleged three companies are genuine investors and all possible
documents which it could produce have been put forth including
income tax returns, bank statement, audited balance sheet,
confirmation and records of Registrar of Companies evidencing the
share subscription and list of shareholders. However, ld.
Commissioner of Income Tax(A) by way of giving a detailed finding
relying on judicial pronouncements confirmed the action fo ld.
Assessing Officer making addition u/s 68 of the Act at Rs.61,00,000/-
by observing as follows :- 61,00,000/- from 3 companies of Kolkata. The AO made inquiries by
issuance of notice u/s 133(6) of the Act and through issuance of
commission u/s 131(1)(d) of the Act to Investigation Unit, Kolkata
regarding the identity, creditworthiness and genuineness of the transaction
pertaining to share premium. The AO found on the basis of the inquires
conducted that the 3 companies who have made investments in share
capital are shell companies/paper companies and therefore the investment
in form of share capital and share premium of Rs. 61',00,000/- was
considered to be unexplained cash credit and added to the income of the
appellant. The appellant submitted that these 3 companies are having
PAN, have shown investments in the balance sheets, have filed
confirmations before the AO, assessed to tax etc. which shows the existence of
these companies and genuineness of the transactions. Asst. Year 2011-12
6.1,2 During the appellate proceedings, the appellant was issued a query
letter dated 20.07.2015 which is as under "On the perusal of the details on
record, filed during the course of the assessment and appellate
proceedings, certain issues need further clarifications. You are required to
submit your explanation/clarifications on the queries raised as following: The details of the working of the valuation of the shares are to be submitted. If such
a high figure of premium was fixed in consultation with experts or financial
institutions, details thereof. In case the details are not furnished then the only
inference that could be drawn was that no such consultation took place, the rate of
premium was fixed unilaterally by the appellant without any reference point to past
records, present earnings or future prospects. (ii) The Central Government had notified the Unlisted Public Companies (Preferential
Allotment) Rules, 2003 which apply to issue- of shares on preferential basis and/or
through private placement by a company in pursuance of a resolution passed under
sub-section (1A) of Section 81 of the Companies Act, 1956 and to the issue of
shares to promoters and their relatives either in public issue or otherwise; Please
furnish details whether, in compliance with the provisions of the Rules, the share
premium prices were determined? (iii) Please produce the copy of the Minutes of Meeting of the Board of Directors held
which reflects that the Board had decided the issue of pricing. When was the
execution of the share application forms completed? A. How prices of shares
determined, how and where negotiation have been done. Basis of fixing share
premium- all documents of meeting/advice/consultant advice, B. How the
appellant came in contact with investor, where they met, how they met, and how
well they know each other. Is there any business/personal relation with investing
party directly or indirectly? C. Copies of all communications entered with all
prospective investors including calling for investment, applications, installment of
money called, received, decision of premium, round of negotiation, dispatch of share
certificate, correspondence about dividend or any other matter etc., along with mode
of communication and proof of dispatch etc. (iv) When was the Resolution authorizing the issuance of shares under Section 81 (1 A) of the Companies Act, 1956 passed and when it was intimated to the Registrar of
Companies? The copy of the resolution is to be produced. (v) When were the share applications received, and the shares were allotted and
sent to the parties? (vi) Whether any dividend was declared to its investors or not? (vii) The attendance register for the AGM held is to be produced alongwith the
relevant proxy authorization forms and any proof of communication to the share
holders in regard to the con vening of the AGM ore ven for the dispatch of the share
certificates;" 6.1.4 The appellant was again issued a query letter during the appellate
proceedings dated 15.09.2015, wherein the appellant was directed to file the
following details "On the perusal of the details on record, filed during the
course of the assessment and appellate proceedings, certain issues need further
clarifications. You are required to submit your explanation/clarification on the
queries raised as following: Share Application - when and where printed, no. of shares printed, bill of such
expenses, whether such claims were part of profit and loss account. (v) Delivery of share certificates - mode, date and expenses claimed. Produce the
copy of the share certificate (one certificate for sample) (vi) Please furnish the response of the persons to your offer and mode and
instrument of expression of interest/acceptance of offer. (vii) When was the name of such persons entered in the share allotment register? (viii) The attendance register for the AGM held is to be produced alongwith the
relevant proxy authorization forms and any proof of communication to the share
holders in regard to the convening of the AGM or even for the dispatch of the share
certificates. (ix) What was the application of the share application/premium money? What
purpose was this amount spent? (x)-Produce the copy of the bank statement in which the share application money
has been credited. Asst. Year 2011-12 (xi)The list of Directors of the Company in AY 2009-10 to 2012-13 is to be provided.
Whether any of the Directors of the appellant company were Directors of the 3
companies of Kolkata from whom share premium has been taken during the above
period." 6.1.5 In response to the query letter the appellant filed a reply dated 01,10,2015
received in this office on 05.10.2015 wherein the following details were furnished: 2011.)

General reserve 4,40,00,000 3,40,00,000

Profit & Loss a/c. balance 3,49,07,684 1,23,15,761 ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 10 Asst. Year 2011-12

If you consider the figures of Reserves which includes balance of profit and loss
account, the total of free reserves would be Rs.7,89,07,684 on 31-03-2011 and
Rs.4,63,15,761 on 31-03-2010. Further, the profits have been continuously rising as
profits were Rs. 1,83,07,723 for year ending 31-03-2010 and Rs.3_,25,91i923 for
year ending 31-03-2011. In this background the share premium ofRs.50 lacs on
shares issued to Cap Vanijya Pvt. Ltd., Newjet Trexim Pvt. Ltd., and Sadasukh
Dealers Pvt. Ltd. against issue of 1,10,000 shares was eminently reasonable. It
would be pertinent to point out that during this year, 90,000 shares were issued to
family members and associate concerns from whom also similar amount of share
premium was collected. This is reflected in the returns of allotment. (d) Share certificates were personally handed over and there was no
correspondence about dividend or any other matter. (e) As mentioned earlier, the mode of communication/contact with the investors and
evidence of how offer was conveyed, this was as per personal discussion with the
investors. paying tax accordingly of around Rs. 1.5 crores every year.
• The share applications were prepared from computer and therefore, there
 would be no bill for such expenses. In fact, only three share applications
 came from outsiders and such expenses would be nominal. As regards
 number of shares certificates printed, 500 shares were printed in 2007 by
 Rushabh Traders and their bill No.280 dt.14-05-2007 is enclosed (page 23- 25). The payments were debited in that year and copies of related accounts
 are also enclosed (page 26-28). • Shares were delivered personally and one certificate for sample is produced
 (page 29-37). • You have mentioned about the response of the persons to the offer. There
 was no such offer but •this was the result of negotiation and the response
 was positive as is reflected in their investment in the company. There was no
 instrument of expression of interest/acceptance of offer.
• The name of these persons were entered in the share allotment register on
 14-09-2010/28-12-2010, Copy of the share allotment register is enclosed
 (page 38-42). • Although you have not mentioned as to of which AGM the attendance register
 is called. However, attendance register held on 28-09-2010 and 30-09-2011
 are enclosed (page 43-48). There was no question of proxy authorization as
 nobody had given proxy. • The share application/premium money were invested in expansion of the
 company's business. The company had availed loan from Bank of Baroda
 and Bank of Baroda laid out several conditions including bringing additional
 share capital and for the evidence thereof they required copies of Form 2 filed ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 11 Asst. Year 2011-12
 with ROC as also certificate of Chartered Accountant. It was pursuant to this
 condition that the company enhanced the share capital (page 49-55).
• Copy of the bank statement in which share application money has been
 credited and has been filed with you in response to your earlier query,
• Please find enclosed the list of directors of the company during 2009-10 to
 2012-13 assessment years (page 56-61). None of these directors of the
 appellant company was director of the two companies of Kolkata and one
 company ofsurat from which share premium has been taken during the above
 period." 6.1.6 On the perusal of the details, it is observed that the appellant had
received share capital of Rs. 11,00,000;- and share premium of Rs,
50,00,000;- during the year from 3 companies of Kolkata. The AO issued
notices u/s 133(6) of the Act on the given addresses out of which the
notice issued to Sadasukh Dealers Pvt. Ltd. was returned back unserved.
The AO issued commission u/s 131(1)(d) of the Act to Investigation Wing,
Kolkata to verify the identity, creditworthiness and genuineness of the
transaction. The Investigation Wing Kolkata after inquiry reported vide its
letter dated 31/01/2014 that the all the 3 companies could not be located at
the given addresses. It was also informed that one of the directors of M/s
Cap Vanij'ya Pvt. Ltd. namely Shri Anj'ani Banka was summoned u/s 131 of
the Act by Investigation Wing, Kofkata and the statement was recorded on
16/01/2014 wherein he stated that the companies in which he is director
including M/s Cap Vanijya Pvt. Ltd. is controlled by Shri Manohar Lai
Nangalia. Subsequently, the statement on oath of Shri Manohar La! Nangaiia
was also recorded on 17/01/2014, wherein he submitted that the companies
are actually controlled by him and these companies are paper/shell
companies. In the statement on oath, Shri Manohar Lal Nangalia in reply to
his question no. 8 had categorically stated as under : "/ agree and confirm that
the companies - Cap Vanijya Investment, Ankit Tracom Pvt. Ltd. & Shri Balju
Trading & Investment Pvt. Ltd. are paper/shell companies controlled and
managed by me." The AO found that the share capital/premium had been
taken from the 3 companies which were paper companies as they were not
having any revenue generation activity and therefore the share
capital/premium given was treated as a colourable device to bring back the
unaccounted money of the appellant in the books. 6.1.7 The AO found on the examination of the various details furnished by the
appellant in each of the case, which are briefly enumerated as following: The appellant only source of income is from interest and income shown in ITR is
of Rs.6,729/- in AY 2011-12 as per return of income filed on 27,09.2011. The appellant only source of income is from interest of Rs. 15,20,03s/- on which
the appellant has claimed salary/wages/staff expense of Rs. 10,27,000/-,but it is
strange to note that the company has no activity and no source of income except
interest income but still the expenses incurred towards operation and
administration expenses is of Rs. 14.99.526/- No rental payment shows for its registered office premises

Though no rental payment has been shown but the total electricity
expenses claimed is of Rs. 500/- only for the whole year out of the total
expenses of Rs. 14,99,526/-.The electricity bills never come in round
figures and cannot be of such a meager amount. Asst. Year 2011-12
No real source of income or actual business activity but various persons have
invested into equity shares of the company and the same has been transferred to
other companies in form of investment/loans. The bank account statement shows meager balances being maintained

Assessment Year Fixed Assets as on Interest Accumulated Share capital &
 31st March Income/Turnover profit premium

2010-11 NIL 17,86,754 (-)110918 32,32,20,000

2011-12 NIL 15,20,035 H107199 32,32,20,000

Cap Vanijya Pvt. Ltd. (CVPL)

No fixed assets as per the balance sheet,
The company was incorporated in the year 2000 and has shown meager
accumulated profits of Rs. 21,367/- in AY 2010-11 and Rs. 25,1 Ml- in AY2011- 12.

The appellant only source of income is from interest and income shown in ITR is
of Rs.6.782/- in AY 2011 -12 as per return of income filed on 27,09.2011. The appellant only source of income is from interest of Rs. 17,00,594/- on
which the appellant has claimed salary/wages/staff expense of Rs.
10,40,000/-. However, it is strange to note that the company has.no activity
and no source of income except interest income but still the expenses
incurred towards operation and administration expenses is of
Rs.16,93,812/-. No real source of income or actual business activity but various persons have
invested into equity shares of the company and the same has been
transferred to other companies in form of investment/loans. The bank account statement shows meager balances being .maintained

Assessment Year Fixed Assets as on Interest Accumulated Share capital &
 31 * March Income/Turnover profit premium

2010-11 NIL 19,43,641 21,367 36,86,51,200

2011-12 NIL 17,00,594 25,117 36,86,51,200 ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 14 Asst. Year 2011-12
6.1.8 During the appellate proceedings, the appellant was asked to furnish the
details regarding that how he came into contact with these 3 companies,
where they met, how they met, copies of all communications entered with all
prospective investors including calling for investment, applications, installment
of money called, received, decision of premium, round of negotiations.
dispatch of share certificates, correspondence about dividend or any other
matter etc., along with mode "of communication and proof of dispatch etc. The
appellant submitted that Mr Gajanand Agarwal, brother of directors of the
appellant company arranged the share capital from the directors of these 3
Kolkata companies on personal persuasion and contacts. The appellant could
not submit any documentary evidence regarding the correspondence made
with the lenders for the investments is share capital. Not a single piece of
paper or email could be furnished as a proof of the discussions for share
capital along with the terms and conditions, paper work etc. It is important to
point out that these 3 companies had never made any transactions earlier
with the appellant company which could explain the conduct of them lenders
in investment in share capital. 6.1.9 The 3 parties were not found at the given addresses when enquires
were conducted by the Investigation Wing, Kolkatta. The onus was on the
appellant to prove the existence of the share holders which could not be
discharged as the share holders are non-existent and non traceable on the
given addresses. Now coming to issue of the creditworthiness and
genuineness of the transactions, the AO noticed that in the bank accounts of
the share holders meager balances were maintained in the accounts and the
deposits were made immediately two or three days before or on the same day
in the bank accounts of the share holders and that amount of deposit was
utilized for investment in the share premium/share capital. During the
assessment proceedings, the AO carried out an analysis of the Bank
Statements discussed at r=:a 5.20 Page 11 of assessment order, which
revealed that money was getting credited in these accounts and on the same
day or next day the amount was being debited through transfer/withdrawals
by clearing/RTGS transfers etc. The cash deposits have also been made in
these accounts. No business transactions have been carried out and at no
point of time any substantive balance is seen. The bank statements
transactions reveal that these accounts are not being used for any business
transactions. It is noticed that in these bank accounts of the lenders meager
balances were maintained in the accounts and the deposits were made
immediately two or three days before or on the same day in the bank
accounts of the lenders and that amount of deposit was utilized for investment
in share capital/loans. 6.1.10. The details of the working of the valuation of the shares were asked to
be submitted. The appellant submitted in his reply dated 03.08.2015 that
there was no mechanism prescribed for calculation of premium on shares of ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 15 Asst. Year 2011-12
Pvt. Ltd. Companies during AY 2011-12. It was entirely a matter between the
company and the subscribers to share and premium has been fixed on the
basis of the intrinsic worth of the company. The valuation of the shares such a
high figure and the charging of the premium has been fixed without any basis,
performance- past or present or professional opinion i.e. in consultation with
experts or financial institutions. In such a situation the only inference that
could be drawn that the rate of premium was fixed unilateraily by the appellant
without any reference point to past records, present earnings or future
prospects. The object was not to attract genuine investors by pegging the
premium at a realistic level but to bring in large amounts of unaccounted
funds in the guise of share premium. The net worth as disclosed by the
balance sheet, the potential earnings as disclosed by earnings per share or
even the vague protestations of future prospects would not justify a high
premium. 6.1.11. it was also noticed on the verification of the return of income filed by
these persons/share holders, that they all have meager means of income with
no capacity to be able to invest the amounts as claimed towards share
capital/share premium. 6.1.12. When the Assessing Officer asked the appellant to furnish the details,
the appellant produced details like bank statement, copy of acknowledgment
of return, confirmations, etc. However, when the Assessing Officer got inquiry
conducted at the stated addresses through the Investigation Wing, Kolkatta,
the parties were found to be non-existent, It was also found by Investigation
Wing that one of the directors of M/s Cap Vanijya Pvt. Ltd. namely Shri Anjani
Banka was summoned u/s 131 of the Act by Investigation Wing, Kolkata and
the statement was recorded wherein he stated that the companies in which he
is director including M/s Cap Vanijya Pvt. Ltd. is controlled by Shri Manohar
Lal Nangalia. Subsequently, the statement on oath of Shri Manohar Lal
Nangalia was also recorded wherein he submitted that the companies are
actually controlled by him and these companies are 'paper/shell companies'.
Thereafter, the appellant except producing the papers could not prove
existence or availability of the share applicants. When the identity of the
person is required to be proved so as to examine whether in fact they have
.applied for allotment of shares, the existence itself is not proved. The
existence of a person is not merely on paper. Particularly when the Assessing
Officer required the assessee to produce the share applicants and particularly
when at the stated address the share applicants are not found to be existing,
it cannot be said that the amount received by the assessee is proved to be
towards share capital. The transaction cannot be proved merely on paper.
Therefore, when the identity of the person itself is not proved, the amount
received by the assessee cannot be considered to be genuinely received.
Similar view has been expressed in the case of Amtrac Automotive India (P.) ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 16 Asst. Year 2011-12
Ltd. ITRfTRIB.) 649 (DELHI) 2010] and 1 ITRfTRIB.) 529 (DELHI) Dhingra
Global Credence (P.) Ltd. 6.2.1 Before going into the details on the issue of accommodation entries in
form of share capital /loans through paper/shell companies, it is important to
delve briefly into the whole concept of accommodation entry and its scenario
in the country. When reference is made to an entry of loan transaction as
'fake loan1 received from a 'paper company', it invariably means that such
entry represents unaccounted money of the person in whose books of
account the money has been credited as share capital/ loan and the lender
company is only a conduit for routing the money back to the books of account
of that person. However, despite having knowledge of this fact and knowing
the techniques and methods used by the taxpayers for this purpose, it
remains a huge challenge for the tax authorities to bring all material facts and
evidences on record so as to prove which in his opinion is a fact, beyond
doubt. In an economy where unaccounted income is a big menace, there are
always efforts made by the tax evaders to bring their unaccounted income
back to their books of account without paying any tax on the same. Numerous
methods and techniques are used for this purpose and there are lots of
techniques that authorities know about and probably countless others that
have yet to be uncovered. Routing the unaccounted income back to the books
of account disguised as loan or share capital is one of such methods widely
used by the tax evaders in our country. The method is most prevalent and
perhaps also one of the most organized one to bring the unaccounted money
back to the books of account without paying any tax on the same. 6.2.2 The method of providing accommodation entry entails breaking
up large amounts of money into smaller, less-suspicious amounts. This
smaller amount has to be below Rs. 50.000/-as'deposit of cash below this
amount does not require providing PAN of the depositors. The money is then
deposited into one or more bank accounts either by multiple people or by a
single person over an extended period of time. Also, even larger amounts are
deposited in the banks with PAN numbers of individuals who are mostly
illiterate and work for these entry operators for small salary or commission.
The money is then routed through paper companies controlled by these
operators. These companies are incorporated by taking care of ali formalities
such as registering with ROC but having only postal addresses with no real
office or employees. The directors of such companies are again individuals
who are mostly illiterate or semiliterate and work for the entry operators for
small salaries or commission. At first sight, most of these companies would
pass of as finance, investment or technology companies. But as the entry
operators have admitted in large number of cases that these are only paper
companies used to route the unaccounted income and, at the same time,
clean hoards of unaccounted income for their clients. These companies used
for routing the unaccounted money are basically fake companies that exist for ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 17 Asst. Year 2011-12
no other reason than to layer' the entries or pass it onto the beneficiary as
loan or share capita!. They take in unaccounted money as "loan or share
capital" and pass it on to either another such paper company for layering' of
the transaction or directly to the beneficiary as loan or share capital. They
simply create the appearance of legitimate transactions through fake entries
of loans or share capital in their books of account. This has been exposed
from time to time through search and seizure operations by the department,
such entry operators controls hundreds of bank accounts for depositing cash
and hundreds of companies for routing the entries. Limited resource and
infrastructure of the Registrar of Companies (ROC) perhaps makes it easier
for them to incorporate large number of such paper companies without any
difficulty. The process, prima facie, may appear very simple but it is extremely
difficult to expose the whole chain of money deposited and layers' through
which it is routed back to the beneficiary. The biggest problem is that there is
no effective deterrence to curb the activities of these entry operators. Even
conducting search and seizure operations against them have not really
worked as deterrence and such operations often ended up in disclosure of
'unaccounted commission income' of these entry operators which definitely
could not be the purpose of conducting search and seizure operations against
these operators. 6.2:3 An important question arises-'IW/e dealing with doubtful cash credits, is
it necessary for the assessing officer to establish that the money came back
to the books of the assessee as 'entry' actually emanated from the coffers of
the assessee?' This issue has been decided by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court
in a decision dated 20.07.2012 in the case of Commissioner of Income-tax v/s
Independent Media (P .) Ltd. 210 TAXMANN 14(Delhi)(2012), which is
significant as the observation made by the Hon. Court in this decision
regarding the cases where 'entries' have been taken from paper companies.
In this case it was alleged by the Investigation Wing that the assessee-
company received share capital from those persons who had given
statements before investigation wing that they were entry providers giving
accommodation entries after receiving cash and after charging their
commission. Assessee furnished PAN of subscriber-companies, share
application forms, board resolutions, copy of bank statement, pay orders,
confirmation from subscribers, their income-tax returns, copies of their
balance sheets, etc. However it was held by the Hon. Court that if explanation
adduced by assessee with regard to identity and creditworthiness of
subscriber-companies and genuineness of transactions was not acceptable
for valid reasons, Assessing Officer could make addition under Section 68 anct for that purpose he would not be under any duty to further show or
establish that monies emanated from coffers of assessee-company. The Hon.
Court further observed that 'We are unable to uphold the view of the Tribunal
that it is incumbent upon the Assessing Officer, on the facts and
circumstances of the case, to establish with the help of material on record that ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 18 Asst. Year 2011-12
the share monies had come or emanated from the assessee^s coffers. Section 68 of the Act casts no such burden upon the Assessing Officer. This
aspect has been considered more than 50 years back by the Supreme Court
in the case of A Govindarajulu Mudaliar v.CIT [1958] 34 !TR 807 where
precisely the same argument was advanced before the Supreme Court on
behalf of assessee. The argument was rejected by the Court." 6.2.4 The Hon'ble Court further referred that in the above case ,(A.Govindarajulu
Mudaliar v.CIT [1958] 34ITR 807) Shri Venkatarama lyer, J. speaking for the
Court observed as under: - 6.2.5. The identity, capacity and genuineness aspects are not water tight
compartments. An assessee's explanation of the nature and source of the
credits cannot be entertained and held by the Assessing Officer as
satisfactory unless and until the ground reality i.e. the de-facto existence of
the creditor is first established prima facie paving the way for the
Assessing Officer to examine further the capacity and genuineness
aspects. Merely based on arranged affairs and supporting documents, the
identity cannot be said to be established, and in many case not the capacity and
genuineness of the transaction. In this aspect it would be necessary to advert to
two decisions of the Supreme Court, the first being in Commissioner of Income
Tax Vs. P. Mohanakala AIR 2007 SQ 2116. While considering the scope of Section 68 , the Supreme Court observed as follows: • nature of business not known; • no known source of income; • meager income to justify such investments; • no fixed assets; • no rental payments; • miniscule expenses; • very low balances in the bank accounts; • the bank accounts have been used to transfer funds from one account to
 other accounts; • no proof regarding how the lenders of Kolkatta came in contact with the
 appellant; 6.2.9 If the above principles of statutory onus on an assessee u/s 68 and of
the shifting of such onus from the assessee on to the Assessing Officer are
applied to any case including the present appellant's case, the following
position shall emerge. Prima facie proof of the three ingredients and that too
cumulatively shall have to be examined at three different stages one after the
other but if an assessee fails to establish at the first stage, the identity of the
creditor itself, there is no question of an Assessing Officer examining the
matter at the second stage of ensuring and satisfying himself of the capacity
of the creditor to advance the moneys and nor therefore, the Assessing
Officer examining the matter at the second stage of ensuring and satisfying
himself of the capacity of the creditor to advance the moneys, even then the
onus lay on the assessee to further establish certain things because non-
production of documentary evidence of corroborative value invites adverse
inference against the person who ought to have produced ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 21 Asst. Year 2011-12
6.2.10 Prima facie onus is always on the assessee to prove the cash credit
entry found in the books of account of the assessee. In land mark cases like Kale Khan Mohammad Hanif v C1T [1963] 50 ITR 1 (SC),and Roshan Di Hatti
v CIT [1977] 107 !TR (SC), it has been held that the law is well settled that the
onus of proving the source of a sum of money found to have been received by
an assessee, is on him, Where the nature and source thereof cannot be
explained satisfactorily, it is open to the revenue to hold that it is the income
of the assessee and no further burden is on the revenue to show that the
income is from any particular source. It may also be pointed out that the
burden of proof is fluid for the purposes of sec. 68 of the Act. Once assessee
has submitted basic documents relating to identity, genuineness of
transaction and creditworthiness then AO must do some inquiry to call for
more details to invoke section 68 . An assessee can discharge his onus of
proof by proving three things: Identity of the creditor capacity of the creditor
and the genuineness of the transaction. Once the assessee proves all three
things his onus is discharged. Section 68 of the income Tax Act provides that
where any sum is found credited in the books of an assessee maintained for
any previous year, and the assessee offers no explanation about the nature
and source thereof or the explanation offered by him is not, ' :he opinion of the
Assessing Officer, satisfactory, the sum so credited may be charged to
income tax as the income of the assessee of that previous year. The
Supreme Court held in Sumati Dayal vs. CIT 214ITR 801 (SC) in applying the
test of human probabilities as follows; 6.2.11 The onus, of establishing the, nature of a cash credit is on the
assessee and, if he fails to offer a reasonable explanation, the AO may
presume that it represents an 'income receipt', So too, the onus of proving
that such income receipt did not fall under the head 'income from other
sources' was on the assessee. If the assessee did not place any satisfactory ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 22 Asst. Year 2011-12
material before the AO to enable him to arrive at a contrary conclusion, the
AO might presume that trie cash credit fell under the head 'Income from other
sources'. The presumption that an unexplained cash credit is an 'income from
other sources' are presumptions which flow naturally from the circumstances
that all facts which can establish the nature and source of the cash credit are
peculiarly within the knowledge of the assessee. It may be that the onus of
displacing the presumptions may be heavy in some cases and light in others,
depending on the facts and circumstances of the case. But, the presumptions
are there and the burden of rebutting the presumptions is on the
assessee.{ Commissioner of Income-tax v. Devi Prasad Vishwanath Prasad [1969] 72 ITR 194,196,197 (SC).} 6.2.12 In Sreelekha Banerjee v. Commissioner of Income-tax [1969] 49 ITR
(SC) 114, 120; [1964] 2 SCR 552 (SC), the Supreme Court observed: 6.2.13. Section 68 of the Act clearly shows that any sum found credited in the
books of an assessee maintained for a previous year may be charged to
income-tax as the income of the assessee of that previous year, if (a ) the
assessee offers no explanation about the nature and source of such sum, or
(b ) the explanation offered by him is, in the opinion of Assessing Officer, not
satisfactory. As a matter of fact, section 68 is a statutory recognition of what
was previously established by judicial decisions to the effect that where
certain sums of money were claimed by the assessee to have been borrowed
from certain persons, it was for the assessee to prove by cogent and proper
evidence that there were genuine borrowings as the facts are exclusively
within the assessee's knowledge. In deciding an issue of this nature, there
cannot be one generai or universal proposition of law which could be the
guiding yardstick in the matter. Each case has got to be decided orfthe "facts
and circumstances of that case. The surrounding circumstances to be
considered must, however, be objective facts, evidence adduced before the
authorities, presumption of facts based on common human experience in life
and reasonable conclusions. In holding a particular receipt to be income from
undisclosed source, the fate of the assessee cannot be decided by the
authorities on the basis of surmises, suspicions or probabilities. Hon'ble
Supreme Court's decision in the case of CIT v. Durga Prasad More [1971] 82
ITR 540 which is as follows--at page 546 of the decision; Asst. Year 2011-12

6.2.14 The onus to prove the genuineness of the transaction lies upon the
assessee which has upheld in the following cases also: (iii) "private company" (means a company which has a minimum paid up
capital of one lakh rupees or such higher paid up capital as may be
prescribed, and by it articles, -] (a) restricts the right to ............. (b) limits............................. (c) Prohibits any invitation to the public to subscribe for any shares in, or
debentures of, the company: 6.3.2 Now, in order to appreciate the above discussions and analysis, it
would be necessary to consider the judgment of the Delhi High Court in
Lovely Exports 299 ITR 268 which has been heavily relied upon by the
appellant. In the case of Lovely Exports, the Assessing Officer had
proceeded to make an addition on the ground that the share applicants in
question did not exist. The assessee had furnished necessary details such
as the PAN of the share applicants. The share money had been received ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 24 Asst. Year 2011-12
through banking channels. The Assessing Officer made an addition only on
the ground that some of the summons which were issued to the share
applicants were returned unserved, whereas in the case of others the
summons though served, had not been complied with. Now it is in this
background that the Delhi High Court noted that the Assessing Officer did not
carry out any enquiry into the Income Tax record of the persons who had
furnished the details in order to ascertain the status of the share applicants.
Significantly, the judgment of the Delhi High Court makes a distinction
between a case where shares are allotted in the course of a large scale
subscription to the shares of a public company on the one hand and a case of
private placement on the other. In the case of allotment of shares of a public
company, the company may have no material other than the application forms
and the bank transaction details to furnish some indication of the identity of
the subscribers. This distinction between a public issue of share capital and
private placement has been made out in the following observations of the
Delhi High Court: 6.3.3 It is not the case where the AO has not made any efforts regarding the
examination of the source of income of these share subscribers to find out
whether they were creditworthy or were such who could subscribe to such
huge money towards share application in the appellant-company. The facts of
the present case is not a case of public issue of shares rather it is a case of
private placement. Therefore in the light of the observation of the Hon'ble
Court in the case of Lovely Exports(supra), the legal regiment will be different
as compared to the public issue. Whereas in the case of public issue, the ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 25 Asst. Year 2011-12
company concerned cannot be expected to know every detail pertaining to
the identity as well as the financial worth of each of its subscribers but same
cannot be said in the case of private placement. As per the observation of the
Hon'ble High Court, a very strict approach to the burden has to be adopted
and the same is laid almost entirely on the assessee which receives the share
subscription. It is, highly improbable in the case of the appellant that it is not
knowing the latest address of all these shareholders and is not in touch with
them from whom such a huge amount has been received as share application
money with a huge premium especially when all these shareholders taken
together hold substantial percent of shares, In a case of public issue, it can be
said that the appellant has discharged the onus the moment it has furnished
the permanent account number of shareholders, shareholder register, share
application form, share transfer register, etc. But in the case of private
placement tf has to satisfy the Assessing Officer about the genuineness of the
transaction which in the instant case is highly doubtful as all the applicants
are not traceable, Thus the Assessing Officer had reached a dead end of the
enquiry and the onus had shifted on the appellant to produce the persons for
verification. 6.3.4 Now, it is this decision of the Delhi High Court against which a Special
Leave Petition before the Supreme Court came to be dismissed on 11
January 2008. In Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. Lovely Exports Pvt. Ltd. (2008) 6 DTR (SC) 308, while dismissing the Special Leave Petition the
Supreme Court observed that if the share application money was received by
the assessee from allegedly bogus share holders whose names were given to
the Assessing Officer, the department was free to proceed to reopen their
individual assessments in accordance with law. On this ground, the Supreme
Court while dismissing the Special Leave Petition found no infirmity in the
judgment of the Delhi High Court. The observation of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court while deciding the special leave petition in the case of Lovely Exports
(P.) Ltd. f2Q09I 319 ITR (St.) 5, cannot be considered to be a law declared
which has a binding precedent under article 141 of the Constitution of India.
Such observations are purely on the facts of the respective case and cannot
be applied across the board even when the facts in other cases are altogether
different. It is a settled position that the court while deciding the appeal will not
put blinker in its sight and merely believe what is written on paper but also
consider concerning circumstances and ground reality as observed by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the cases of CIT v. Durga Prasad More [1971] 82 ITR
540 and Sumati Dayal [1995] 214 ITR 801 -. . ' 6.3.5 The principle which was emphasized by the Delhi High Court in the case of
Lovely Exports was followed by another Division Bench in Commissioner of
Income Tax Vs. Oasis Hospitality Pvt. Ltd , [2011] 333 ITR 119 (Delhi), wherein
the Hon, Court observed that the initial burden must be upon the assessee to
explain the nature and source of the share application money received. In order ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 26 Asst. Year 2011-12
to discharge this burden, the assessee is required to prove; (a) Identity of
shareholder; (b) Genuineness of transaction; and (c) Credit worthiness of
shareholders. As far as the creditworthiness of the subscriber is concerned, that
can be proved by producing a bank statement of the subscriber showing that it
has sufficient balance in its account to enable it to subscribe to the share capital.
The Delhi High Court held that once the initial borden has been discharged, the
observations of the Supreme Court in the case of Lovely Exports would suggest
that the Department is free to proceed to reopen the individual assessments in
the case of alleged bogus shareholders in accordance with law and is not
remediless. This would be more so when the assessee is a public limited
company and has issued share capital to the public at large as in such cases the
company cannot be expected to know every detail pertaining to the identity and
financial worth of the subscriber. However, the initial burden on the assessee
would be somewhat heavy in case the assessee is a private limited company
where the shareholders are closely related because in such a case the assessee
cannot feign ignorance about the status of the parties. 6.3.6 The various judicial pronouncements, while recognizing that the pernicious
practice of conversion of unaccounted money through masquerade of investment
in the share capital of a company needs to be prevented, have advised a balance
to be maintained regarding onus of proof to be placed on the company. The
Courts have drawn a distinction and emphasized that in case of private
placement of shares the legal regime should be different from that which is
followed in case of a company seeking share capital from the public at large. In
the case of closely held companies, investments are made by known persons.
Therefore, a higher onus is required to be placed on such companies besides the
general onus to establish identity and creditworthiness of creditor and
genuineness of transaction. This additional onus needs to be placed on such
companies to also prove the source of money in the hands of such
shareholder or persons making payment towards issue of shares before such
sum is accepted as genuine credit, If the company fails to discharge the
additional onus, the sum shall be treated as income of the company and
added to its income. Thus in case of private limited companies higher onus is
cast upon them to explain even source of source of the share application
money/ share premium etc.

6.3.7 In the present case in spite of all the efforts where the Assessing Officer
could not even locate the respective so-called applicants, the assessee could
file only confirmations and acknowledgment of ROI. Therefore, it is a case
where all the papers are manufactured at the instance of the appellant and
not the real transaction. Therefore, merely on the basis of such papers it
cannot be held that the amount received by way of share, capital is explained
within the meaning oTsection 68 of the Act. The Full Bench of the Delhi High
Court in the case of Sophia Finance Ltd. [1994] 205 ITR 98 have held that the
provision of section 68 shall equally apply even in the case of amount stated
to be received towards share capital. Since the appellant failed to prove even ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 27 Asst. Year 2011-12
the basic identity as also the creditworthiness and the genuineness of the
transaction in the form of share premium, the addition was rightly made by the
Assessing Officer has been rightly made. Hence, the isolated evidence of the
appellant had no evidentiary value at all. As a matter of fact, the law of
evidence mandates that if the best evidence is not placed before the Court,
an adverse inference can be drawn as against the person who ought to have
produced it. {Krishnaveni Ammal158 ITR 826 (Mad.)}

6.3.8 The Hon. ITAT, Kolaktta Bench in the case of [2014 ] 52 taxmann.com
305 (Kolkata - Trib.) Bisakha Sales (P.) Ltd, while deciding the racket/scam of
the issue of accommodation entries held that the methodology and acts done
in such cases of capital formation is not tax avoidance, It is more in the nature
of tax evasion by money laundering. These transactions have in effect three
limbs. The first limb is the creation of the shell companies with substantial
share capital which is balanced with inventories in the form of shares in other
shell companies. The second limb is the transfer of such shell companies to
persons who desire to use such substantial share capital companies for
converting their unaccounted money into accounted funds and use such shell
companies to do legitimate business. The third limb is when the shell
companies after being taken over, the assessee in the form of inventories are
encashed whereby the unaccounted monies are laundered and Drought into
the company for conducting the legitimate business. All these three limbs are
not done in one assessment year but in different assessment years

6.3.9 The Assessing Officer has brought certain facts on record to highlight
that the loan received actually represents an accommodation entry. It could
be proved that the company providing loan exists oni;y on paper, ft has no
employees, the address given is only a postal address and the company does
not have any physical set up at the given address, the same address is
possibly being used as postal address for multiple companies indulging in to
the same activity of prow ding accommodation entries The appellant was
trying to press into service only the legal or de-jure Identity of a creditor and
could not adduce any evidence of the de-facto existence of the creditor
company. The de-jure existence is a mere convenient facade of the de-facto
existence of the creditor company. Such de-jure existence is self serving one,
having been obtained through application and other forms and formalities
unilaterally filed before the ROC etc.

6.3.10 Thus, on overall consideration of facts and circumstances of the case
and as discussed in detail above, the amounts claimed to be received by the
appellant do not in any way appear to be genuine loans. They are nothing but
arranged affairs being pre-ordained series of transactions and tax evasion
device where money laundering transactions have been camouflaged as
loans. Hence no credence can be placed on the copies of various documents ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 28 Asst. Year 2011-12
filed to support I such claim of share capital contribution aid addition of Rs.
61,00,000/- is hereby confirmed and grounds of appeal is dismissed." 4. Aggrieved, assessee is now in appeal before the Tribunal. Ld.
Authorised Representative submitted that with regard to the alleged
three companies namely -Newjet Trexim (P) Ltd., Cap Vanijya (P)
Ltd. and Sadasukh Dealers (P) Ltd. which has subscribed to the
equity shares of assessee company along with share premium
totaled at Rs.18,00,000/-, Rs.18,00,000/- and Rs.25,00,000/-
respectively. Assessee had submitted the income-tax record with
computation, confirmation letters of the companies, audited balance
sheet showing investments in the assessee company and bank
statements. Ld. Authorised Representative further submitted that all
necessary details were available with the Revenue authorities but
they could not find any error in the details submitted by the assessee
which could have proved that the alleged share capital/premium was
unexplained money of the assessee company. It was further
submitted with regard to that the alleged statement of Mr. Anjani
Banka, director of Cap Vanijya (P) Ltd. and Mr. Manohar Lal Nangalia
that assessee had submitted vide its letter dated 28.2.2014 that they
do not know either of the two persons and how they were connected
with the alleged companies. Ld. Authorised Representative also
submitted that with all these details, why the inspector could not find
their locations and further relied on the judgment of the Supreme
Court in case of Lovely Exports Ltd. (216 CTR 195), wherein the Hon.
apex court has held that if the share application money is received by
the assessee company from alleged bogus shareholder whose ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 29 Asst. Year 2011-12

names are given to the assessing officer, then the department is free
to proceed to reopen their individual assessments in accordance with
law but it cannot be regarded as undisclosed income of assessee
company. It is not proper on the part of the department to say that the
companies could not be located once they are on the record of the
department with their PA Nos. Therefore, the better course is to
examine their Income tax records before proceedings with any
addition in this case. We would draw your kind attention to the latest
judgment of Gujarat High Court in the case of Ranchhod Jivabhai
Nakhava (208 Taxman 35). Copy of the above judgment is
enclosed.(P. 22-27) . Despite the above clear-cut judgment of
Supreme Court and Gujarat High Court, brought 'to the notice if the
assessing officer, he choose not only not to follow them which he was
bound to also he has not even referred them in the assessment order
and proceeds on his own about the above companies background.
That is not relevant because these three companies have invested,
have confirmed and in their balance sheets they have shown the
investments in the appellant company. The appellant vide letter dated 28.04.2015 submitted that as regards
your query about the statement of the assessing officer in para 4.4 of
the assessment order it is true that copy of the report DDIT(!nv.) and
statement recorded were given. The report of the DDlT (Inv.j, Unit-
11/3, Kolkata is one page report in which he states that none of the
three concerns could be located at the given address and that the
directors have held that the concerned companies were papers/shell
companies. In the statement of Shri Nangalia out of the three ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 30 Asst. Year 2011-12

companies, name of only one company viz Cap Vanijya Pvt. Ltd.
mentioned; other names are not mentioned, Therefore, apart from
what is mentioned in our letter on 14th April, 2015 as regards the
statements of Mr. Nangalia and Mr. Banka, nothing applies to the
other two companies viz. NewJet'Trexim Pvt. Ltd. and Sadasukh
Dealers Pvt. Ltd. Both these companies have given complete details
pertaining to them to the Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax,
Circle-4, Surat. Copy of the report dated 31.01.2014 alongwith the
copies of statements of Mr. Banka and Mr. Nangalia are enclosed.
Ld. Authorised Representative also submitted that promoters of the
assessee company were previously having business in the State of
Assam and thereafter shifted to Gujarat and were having their
connection in Assam and Kolkata with the help of which investments
were attracted in the share capital and share premium of the
company. Ld.Authorised Representative also relied on following
judgments/
decisions :- 5. On the other hand, ld. Departmental Representative taking
support of various judgments/decisions enumerated below submitted
that mere furnishing of PAN, confirmation, balance sheet and copy of
income-tax return cannot be held to be a corroborative evidence to
prove the genuineness and creditworthiness of the share applicants.
In the case of assessee one of the directors of the alleged company
has himself accepted that M/s Cap Vanijya (P) Ltd. merely provides
accommodation entries and is paper/shell company; one ld.
Commissioner of Income Tax(A) has rightly appreciated the fact that
the alleged three companies with heavy share capital and premium
are showing meager income and have no investments in fixed assets
and entries in the bank statements are repeatedly in the nature of
providing accommodation entries and it is hard to believe that the
alleged three companies are carrying on any regular business
activities. Ld. Departmental Representative also referred and relied
on the following judgments/decision:- 6. We have heard the rival contentions and perused the record
placed before us and also gone through the judgments/decisions
quoted by both the parties. Though several grounds have been raised
but the only issue involved in this appeal revolves round the alleged
unexplained cash credit of Rs.61 lacs added to the income of the
assessee u/s 68 of the Act by ld. Assessing Officer and duly
confirmed by ld. Commissioner of Income Tax(A). We observe that
during the course of assessment proceedings ld. Assessing Officer
wanted to verify the identity, genuineness and creditworthiness of the
following three parties which have subscribed to the assessee's
share capital:- 700001. th
2 Cap Vanijya Pvt. Ltd. 14-C, 4 AABCC3989 30000 150000
 Floor, Maharshi Devendra Road,
 Kolkata-700007. 3 Sadashukh Dealers Pvt. Ltd. 6-A, AAKCS9420P 500000 200000
 Raja Subodh Malik Squire, Kolkata- We further observe that ld. Assessing Officer took note of the
statements recorded by DDIT (inv) Wing of Kolkata in the case of Mr.
Anjani Banka, director of Cap Vanijya (P) Ltd. and Manoharlal
Nangalia wherein Mr. Anjani Banka admitted that Cap Vanijya (P)
Ltd. and other companies are under the control and management of ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 33 Asst. Year 2011-12

Manoharlal Nangalia who has further confirmed that Cap Vanijya (P)
Ltd. is a paper/shell company engaged in providing accommodation
entries of share capital/premium. We further observe that ld.
Assessing Officer on examination of the financial statement of alleged
three companies prepared charts showing fixed assets, interest
income/turnover, accumulated profits and share capital/premium
which is summarized below :- Assessment Fixed Interest Accumulated Share capital
Year Assets Income/ profit & premium

 as on Turnover

 31st

 March

2010-11 NIL 9,14,868 2,423 2,42,50,000
2011-12 NIL 13,07,459 3,004 2,42,50,000

(2) NewletTrexim Pvt. Ltd. (NTPL)

Assessment Fixed Interest Accumulated Share capital
Year Assets Income/ profit & premium

 as on Turnover

 31st

 March

2010-11 NIL 17,86,754 (-)1,10,918 32,32,20,000
2011-12 NIL 15,20,035 (-)1,07,199 32,32,20,000 ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 34 Asst. Year 2011-12
(3) Cap Vaniiva Pvt. Ltd. CVPL

Assessment Fixed Interest Accumulated Share capital
Year Assets Income/ profit & premium

 as on Turnover

 31st

 March

2010-11 NIL 19,43,641 21,367 36,86,51,200
2011-12 NIL 17,00,594 25,117 36,86,51,200

Ld. Assessing Officer on the basis of above three charts observed
that there is a common working style of the alleged three companies
which were having NIL fixed assets and meager accumulated profits.
It was also observed from the balance sheets and schedules thereto
that huge investments have been made in the share capital of various
companies and the bank statements of these companies are
conspicuously replete with deposits and withdrawals of same
amounts in a short span of one or two days which shows that these
companies are just acting as a conduit of funds with no real business. 6.1 We further observe that ld. Authorised Representative has
repeatedly asserted the fact that assessee company which is having
a huge turnover of Rs.189.98 crores as against Rs.116.19 crores in
the immediately preceding year and regular manufacturing activities
are being carried out. Share capital/premium received during the year
has been utilized for the business purposes including purchase of
machinery. The share capital/premium received during the year apart
from the alleged three companies have also come from other share ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 35 Asst. Year 2011-12

holders relates to directors and some amount of premium have been
paid by them and this fact is not disputed by the Revenue. Ld.
Authorised Representative has also submitted that all evidences in
support of identity, creditworthiness and genuineness which a
prudent businessman can collect within his limited power which
includes addresses, Permanent Account Number, confirmation
letters, bank statement and audited balance sheet and profit and loss
account and no error has been found in this regard. Further it is not
possible for the assessee to know about the source of source and
such powers are with the Revenue authorities to make the
investigation. However, we also observe that ld. Authorised
Representative was unable to file any documentary evidence to show
that there was a communication between the company officers and
the alleged three companies which can prove any connection
between them and also the intention to invest in the assessee
company. Ld. Authorised Representative also could not reply that
why company based in Kolkata can invest all the way in a company in
Gujarat without having any previous business connection. 7. We observe that both the ld. Representatives have referred and relied on
various judgments/decision dealing with the issues of unexplained cash credit u/s
68 of the Act as well as reopening of assessment proceedings u/s 147 of the Act
which in nutshell gives the view that merely furnishing of PAN, income-tax
returns and confirmation may not be sufficient evidence to prove the
genuineness and creditworthiness of the person and one more step is required
from either side to substantiate their plea. At this juncture we find it pertinent to
observe the finding given by the Co-ordinate Bench in the case of ACIT vs. ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 36 Asst. Year 2011-12
Nakoda Fashion (P) Ltd. in ITA No.1716/Ahd/2012 wherein quite similar issue
has been adjudicated and the Co-ordinate Bench has held as follows :- 9. It was alleged by assessee that summons u/s 131 were not
received by Archer Financial Service Pvt. Ltd. and Green Star
Financial Service Pvt. Ltd. As far as personal attendance of the
director of Suraj Corporate Service Pvt. Ltd., authorized ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 37 Asst. Year 2011-12

representative on behalf of the company appeared and again filed
documents which were already filed by the assessee and submitted
that he took leave on behalf of the director for attending in personal
due to illness of director's father. We further find that Assessing
Officer came across the statement of Mr. Jitendra Jain, one of the
directors of Suraj Corporate Service Pvt. Ltd., Ahmedabad recorded
by DDIT(Inv) on 21.9.2010, in case of another investigation, in the
case of M/s B. R. Metals and Alloy (Gujarat) Ld., wherein it was
stated by Mr. Jitendra Jain that the said company, Suraj Corporate
Services Pvt. Ltd. provides accommodation entries to the companies
which gives cash to the said entities and the same was routed
through various other paper entries and finally from the bank account
of Suraj Corporate Services Pvt. Ltd. the same was introduced in the
form of share application money. 10. Relevant extract of statement recorded on 21.09.2010- in the form of
Questions & Answers in respect of Shri Jitendra Jain by DDIT(Inv), Ahmedabad,
are as follows :- Q. 24. How much transactions of Suraj Corporate Services Pvt. Ltd. and
 Grin BPO Services with B. R. Metals and explain the nature of
 transaction ? Ans :24 During the F.Y.2008-09 from Suraj Corporate Services Pvt. Ltd. the
 company invested Rs. 1 crores with B. R. Metals vide a/c
 No.213090 of PNB as share capital and Grin BPO Pvt. Ltd. has
 invested 1 crores 85 lacs in F.Y.2008-09 through bank account
 no.213373 of PNB as share capital. was received from B. R. Metals and Alloy (Gujarat ) Ltd. which was
 then routed through a few bank a/cs of paper concerns and
 ultimately the money was invested in B.R. Metals & Alloys (Gujarat)
 Pvt. Ltd. through PNB by Suraj Corporate Services Pvt. Ltd. and
 Grin BPO Pvt. Ltd. as share capital and had received commission
 of 0.25% for making this arrangement. 11. We further find from going through the bank statement of one of
the impugned party Fly High Exports Pvt. Ltd., Kolkata placed at
pages 21 & 22 of CIT(A)'s order that a large volume of transaction
totaling in crores of rupees have passed through their bank account
during the year but when we turn to the profits and loss account,
there is a meager interest income of Rs.9,77,080/- and similarly in
case of Oasis Cine Communication Ltd., Kolkata against bank
transaction in crores of rupees there is sales turnover of Rs.348500/-
and net profit before tax at Rs.1289.56 which shows that the
transactions which happened through the bank account are not
having any impact on the profit and loss account. 12. Similarly in the case of Suraj Corporate Services Pvt. Ltd. when
we refer to the bank statement placed on pages 14 & 15 of CIT(A)'s
order, we find that transactions worth crores of rupees have moved
through bank balances at various points of time are more than Rs.50
lacs whereas a meager amount of interest has been shown at
Rs.18,903/-. Similar type of financial datas are depicted in other two
impugned parties namely - Archer Financial Service Pvt. Ltd. and
Green Star Financial Service Pvt. Ltd. having common address. From
observing these documents it seems that huge volume of
transactions are in the form of debit and credit of cheques and are of
typical nature of paper companies engaged in providing
accommodation entries. 13. Further we observe that Co-ordinate Bench, Kolkata in the case
of Subhlakshmi Vanijya(P) Ltd. vs. CIT (2015) 60 taxmann.com 60
(Kolkata -Trib) came across issue relating to unexplained cash credit u/s 68 of the Act wherein share capital was received from companies
having very meager income and low financial capacity to invest huge ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 39 Asst. Year 2011-12

amounts in other companies"share capital wherein the Co-ordinate
Bench has held as under :- • As per this proviso where any share capital etc. is credited in the case of closely
held company, the explanation given by such company shall be deemed to be not ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 40 Asst. Year 2011-12
satisfactory, unless the resident shareholder offers an explanation about the nature
and source of such sum so credited and such explanation is found to be
satisfactory by the Assessing Officer. The essence of this amendment is that a
closely held company is required to satisfy the Assessing Officer about the share
capital etc. issued by it, in the absence of which, an addition under section 68 can
be made in the hands of the company. If the amendment is accepted to be
prospective, then it would mean precluding the Assessing Officer from examining
the genuineness of transactions of receipt of share capital with premium under
consideration and hence prohibiting him from making any addition under section
68 notwithstanding the same being non-genuine. In the oppugnation, if the
amendment is held to be retrospective, then it would mean that the Assessing
Officer would have all the powers to examine the genuineness of share capital and
share premium received by the assessee company on the touchstone of section 68 .
If the assessee fails to satisfy him on the identity and capacity of the subscribers
and genuineness of) transactions, then addition will be called for under section 68 .
[Para 13.w.]

• It is settled rule of construction that every statute is prima facie prospective
unless it is expressly or by necessary implication made to have retrospective
operation Ordinarily the courts are required to gather the intention of the
legislature from the overt language of the provision as to whether it has been made
prospective or retrospective, and if retrospective, then from which date. However,
some times what happens is that the substantive provision, as originally enacted or
later amended, fails to clarify the intention of the legislature. In such a situation if
subsequently some amendment is carried out to clarify the real intent, such
amendment has to be considered as retrospective from the date when the earlier
provision was made effective. Such clarificatory or explanatory amendment is
declaratory. As the later amendment clarifies the real intent and declares the
position as was originally intended, it takes retroactive effect from the date when
the original provision was made effective. Normally such clarificatory amendment
is made retrospectively effective from the earlier date. It may also happen that the
clarificatory or explanatory provision introduced later to depict the real intention
of the legislature is not specifically made retrospective by the statute.
Notwithstanding the feet that such amendment to the substantive provision has
been given prospective effect, the judicial or quasi-judicial authorities, on a
challenge made to it, can justifiably hold such amendment to be retrospective. The
justification behind giving retrospective effect to such amendment is to apply the
real intention of the legislature from the1 date such provision was initially
introduced. The intention of the legislature while introducing the provision is
gathered, inter alia, from the Finance Bill, Memorandum explaining the provision
of the Finance Bill etc. [Para 13.x.] ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 41 Asst. Year 2011-12
• Any amendment to the substantive provision which is aimed at clarifying the
existing position or removing unintended consequences to make the provision
workable has to be treated as retrospective notwithstanding the feet that the
amendment has been given effect prospectively. The border line between a
substantive provision having retrospective or prospective effect, is quite
prominent. One needs to appreciate the nature of the original provision in
conjunction with the amendment. Once a provision has been given retrospective
effect by the legislature, it shall continue to be retrospective. If on the other hand,
the statute does not amend it retrospectively, then one has to dig out the intention
of the Parliament at the time when the original provision was incorporated and
also the new amendment. If the later amendment simply clarifies the intention of
the original provision, then it will always be considered as retrospective. [Para
13aa]

On adverting to the language of section 68 , it transpires that it refers to 'any sum
credited' in the books of an assessee maintained for any previous year. The
expression 'any sum credited' has not been specifically defined in the provision
Thus, it would extend to all the amounts credited in the books of account. A sum
can be credited in the books of account, which would invariably either find its
place either on the income side of the Profit and loss account or in the liability side
of the balance sheet. Items credited to the Profit and loss account are themselves
income and hence there can be no reason to make addition once again for them. Items appearing on the liability side of the balance sheet can be loans or share
capital etc. Once there is specific reference in section 68 for applying it to 'any
sum credited', there can be no reason to restrict its application only to 'loans' and
not to 'share capital1. The burden of proof under section 68 can be no different in
respect of issue of share capital by closely held companies vis-a-vis loans or gifts.
The High Court in CIT v. Maithan International [2015] 375 ITR 123/231 Taxman
381/56 taxmann.com 283 (Cal.). CITv. Active Traders (P.) Ltd. £19951214 ITR
583/[1993] 69 Taxman 281 (Call Mimec (India) (P.) Ltd, v. Dy. C1T[2Q\3 ] 353
ITR 284/216 Taxman 157 (Mag.)/35 taxmann.com 319 (Cal.) and CIT v. Nivedan
Vanijya Niyojan Ltd. [2003] 263 ITR 623/1 30 Taxman 153 (Cal.)a has
specifically held that the three ingredients, viz, identity and capacity of creditor
and genuineness of transaction are required to be satisfied even in case of issue of
share capital by a closely held company. It shows that the intention of the
legislature, as interpreted by the High Court, is always to cast duty on the assessee
to prove the satisfaction of the three ingredients in case of transaction of issue of
share capital by a closely held company in the same way as is in the case of
transaction of loans. [Para 13. ab]

A careful perusal of the first para of the Memorandum brings out that the onus of
satisfactorily explaining issue of share capital with premium etc. by a closely held
company is on the company. Next para recognizes that judicial pronouncements, ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 42 Asst. Year 2011-12
while considering that the pernicious practice of conversion of unaccounted
money through masquerade of investment in the share capital of a company needs
to be prevented, have advised a balance to be maintained regarding onus of proof
to be placed on the company. After going through the above parts of the
Memorandum explaining provisions of the Finance Bill, there remains no doubt
whatsoever that the onus has always been on the closely held companies to prove
the issue of share capital etc. by the company in terms of section 68 . Thus, the
amendment makes it manifest that the intention of the legislature was always to
cast obligation on the closely held companies to prove receipt of share capital etc.
to the satisfaction of the Assessing Officer and it was only with the aim of setting
to naught certain contrary judgments which 'created doubts' about the onus of
proof by holding that there was no requirement on the company to prove the share
capital etc. and as such no addition could be made in the hands of company even if
such shareholders are bogus. As the amendment aims at clarifying the position of
law which always existed, but was not properly construed in certain judgments,
there can be no doubt about the same being retrospective in operation. [Para 13.
ad.]

Therefore, the amendment to section 68 by insertion of proviso is clarificatory and
hence retrospective. The contrary arguments advanced by the assessee being
devoid of any merit, are hereby jettisoned. [Para 13. ae.]

Thus, the contention of the assessee that since the Assessing Officer of the
assessee-company is not empowered to examine or make any addition on account
of receipt of share capital with or without premium before amendment by the Finance Act, 2012 with effect from assessment year 2013-14 and hence the
Commissioner by means of impugned order under section 263 could not have
directed the Assessing Officer to do so, is unsustainable. [Para 13.ak.] 14. We further observe that in the case of CIT vs. N. Tarika Properties
Investment in ITA No.2080 of 2010 Hon. Delhi High Court vide its judgment
dated 28.11.2013 has held as under :- 32. In view of the above, we are of the view that the Assessee has not discharged the onus
satisfactorily and the additions made by the Assessing Officer was justified and
sustainable and the order of the Tribunal ignoring and nor dealing with the factual
findings recorded by the assessing officer is perverse . 33. The substantial question of law is thus answered in favour of the Appellant/Revenue
and against the Respondent/Assessee. The appeal is accordingly allowed with costs that
are assessed at Rs. 2O,000/-. 15. Further we observe that in the case of Sumati Dayal vs. CIT 1995 AIR
2109, Hon. Supreme Court held as under :- 16. Further we observe that in the case of CIT vs. Maithan International (2015) 56 taxmann.com 283 (Calcutta), Hon. Calcutta High Court has held as
under :- 17. Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Navodaya Castle (P) Ltd vs
CIT reported in (2015) 56 taxmann.com 18 (SC) has held that mere
filing of certificate of incorporation, PAN were not sufficient for the
purpose of identification of subscriber company especially when there
was material to show that subscriber was a paper company and not a
genuine investor. 18. Examining the facts in the light of above judgments and
decisions we observe that assessee is a private limited company
which is not open to public and, therefore, if it requires to increase its
capital base or invite investment in the share capital along with
premium which in this case is Rs.60/- over the face value of Rs.10/-
then it has to approach within its friends and relatives for the
investment. In the given case Rs.70 lacs each has been given by the
impugned 5 parties to the private limited company i.e. the assessee.
Any prudent person who intends to invest in a company with a motive
of gaining from the said investment, looking to the quantum of share
capital and premium invested by these 5 parties which is of a
substantial percentage of the total share capital of the company it is
surprising to note that none of them was able to appear before the
Assessing Authority nor the assessee was able to bring any of them
in person to prove the genuineness of transaction and
creditworthiness of the investor towards share capital and share
premium given these impugned 5 parties. More so we find that out of
the 5 parties three parties are within Ahmedabad and so is the
assessee. It is not simple to believe that none of them could have
been made to appear before the Assessing Officer to prove the
transaction. This non-attendance of the equity share holders makes
the situation little grimy which further gets suspicious when the
financial statements are gone through. It has been uniform situation
in all the 5 parties that transactions totaling in crores are routed
through bank accounts, huge reserve and surplus is appearing in the
balance sheet along equal amount of investment; but when the profits
and loss account is looked into it seems complete dry as interest
against investment running in crores the income shown is few
thousand and so is the total turnover. Adding more to this in the
statement given by one of the directors of Suraj Corporate Services
Pvt. Ltd. it has been clearly accepted that Suraj Corporate Services
Pvt. Ltd. is an accommodation entry provider and just a paper
company. This modus operandi of accommodation entry provider ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 46 Asst. Year 2011-12

cannot get itself covered under the shadow of PAN, income-tax
return, audited financial statement and proof of transactions by
account payee cheques. One has to go ahead to rethink why such
company is incorporated. In normal course a business entity is
incorporated to earn profits and capital is contributed for doing the
same but when the capital investment or reserve and surplus created
is just used to invest in other companies without having any return
and the gross turnover of the company is not having any direct
connection with the voluminous bank transaction then such
companies end up into a paper company. 19. From going through all the above judgments and decision, we
find that along with evidences, surrounding circumstances, human
probability and intentional acts are also to be taken note off while
accepting the identity, creditworthiness and genuineness of the cash
creditors which in this case is the share applicants. In the case before
us we observe that assessee is trying to assert again and again upon
the PAN, IT returns, bank statement and confirmations of the
impugned 5 parties but has nowhere tried to clarify or disclose the
fact which has embedded in the financial statement of these 5 parties
which speaks in itself that they are paper companies. Further if it has
been genuine transaction and assessee company is asked to
produce the new share holders who have been allotted a substantial
portion of equity shares, he would have easily called upon the
investors. The investors could have come along with all the financial
documents and could have clarified about his intention to make
investment in the equity shares of the company because every
investor wants to earn income from investment in the form of dividend
as well as expects appreciation in the valuation of shares with the
growth of business. If this has been the situation, then there would
have been no doubt on the genuineness of the transactions. On the
contrary in the instant case assessee completely fails to prove the
same. 20. It is well settled that in order to discharge the onus the
assessee must prove the following :- 21. We further observe that Hon. Delhi High Court in the case of
 CIT V Empire Builtech P Ltd 361 ITR 258 (Del), has held that when
assessee does not produce evidence or tries to avoid the appearance
before the Assessing authority it necessarily creates difficulties and
prevents ascertainment of the truth and correct facts as the
Assessing Officer is denied the advantage of the attendance or
factual assertion by the assessee before him. If an assessee
deliberately and intentionally fails to produce evidence before the
Assessing Officer with the desire to prevent enquiry or investigation
an adverse opinion should be drawn. The assessee had not
discharged the initial onus to establish the identity, creditworthiness
of the share applicants and the genuineness of the transactions. The
additions made by the Assessing Officer were justified and
sustainable. 22. We are, therefore, of the view that in the given facts and
circumstances of the case and respectfully following the judgments of ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 48 Asst. Year 2011-12

Hon. Supreme Court, High Court and the decision of Co-ordinate
Bench as discussed above, we are of the confirmed view that
assessee has been able to just prove the identity of the company but
unable to prove the genuineness & creditworthiness of the impugned
5 parties. In the result, the sum of Rs.3.5 crores has rightly been
treated as unexplained money u/s 68 of the Act by the ld. Assessing
Officer. We set aside the order of ld. CIT(A) and restore that of the
Assessing Officer. In the result ground no.(i) of Revenue is allowed. 7.1 On going through the above decision of Co-ordinate Bench
which has referred and relied on various judgments of Hon. Supreme
Court, Hon. High Courts and Tribunal's decisions and examining the
facts of the case in the light of the above, we find that one common
event is with regard to the report of investigation of the Department
and the statement on oath of the director of one of the alleged
companies admitting it to be a paper company. In the case of
assessee out of the alleged three companies M/s Cap Vanijya (P)
Ltd. is admittedly a shell/paper company as the director and the
controlling person has accepted. As far as other two companies are
concerned there is no such report of the investigation wing to prove
them to be paper companies. We will, therefore, proceed further by
segregating the alleged three companies into two parts wherein in the
first part we will discuss about Cap Vanijya (P) Ltd. and the second
part remaining Newjet Trexim (P) Ltd. and Sadasukh Dealers (P) Ltd. 8. As regards Cap Vanijya (P) Ltd. we find that undoubtedly
assessee has submitted necessary evidences and details at the
primary stage but the Revenue came with a counter to disprove the
evidences of assessee with the help of report of Dy. Director of ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 49 Asst. Year 2011-12

Income-Tax (Inv), Kolkata as well as the statement on oath u/s 131 of
the Act of the Director of Cap Vanijya (P) Ltd. and the controlling
person Mr. Manoharlal Bangalia clearly accepting this company as a
paper/shell company. Revenue is believed to prove that the activities
undertaken by the alleged company are not meeting commercial
prudence and the working of this company is merely to provide
accommodation entries. Against the counter evidence of the
Department proving the company to be a paper company, assessee
miserably failed to bring any strong evidence to justify its plea of
genuineness and creditworthiness of the alleged cash credit of
Rs.18,00,000/-. We are, therefore, of the firm view that ld.
Commissioner of Income Tax(A) has rightly confirmed the addition u/s 68 of the Act of Rs.18,00,000/- received as share capital and
premium from Cap Vanijya (P) Ltd. which is a shell/paper company. 9. As regards remaining two companies namely Newjet Trexim (P)
Ltd. and Sadasukh Dealers (P) Ltd. we observe that both these
companies have replied to the notice u/s 133(6) of the Act and
assessee has furnished all necessary details which include income-
tax returns, audited balance sheets, bank statements and
confirmations of accounts. We also observe that in the case of these
two companies there is no negative report of the Investigation Wing
of the Income-tax Department and also in the statement of Manohar
Lal Nangalia there is no reference of these two companies. However,
Revenue have made a guess work on the basis of the financial datas
of these two companies and comparing it with that of Cap Vanijya (P) ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 50 Asst. Year 2011-12

Ltd. and have taken a similar view which seems to be merely a guess
work without having a concrete base or evidence. It is well
established fact that each assessee is having its distinct identity and
its own course of working. Unless the companies are working in the
same group or a under a common director it merely cannot be
inferred by comparing the finance of the paper company that the
alleged two companies are also paper companies. In the given case
the alleged two companies which have responded to the
Department's notices, all details have been filed then it was on the
part of Revenue to further deeply examine the modus operandi of the
companies with the help of investigation. In the given case the report
of Investigation Wing, Kolkata, heavily relied on by the Revenue
authorities is having no mention of the alleged two companies.
Undoubtedly to a great extent the picture evolving out of the financial
statements of the alleged two companies gives an indication about
something happening abnormal in their working but that merely
cannot be basis to doubt the genuineness and creditworthiness
because in various investment companies also one can find that
there are no fixed assets and investments are regularly made in other
companies. Duty is heavily casted on the Revenue in such type of
cases where the burden of proving has been shifted by the assessee
to the Revenue by way of furnishing all requisite documents and
evidences. It is on the Revenue to further dig out some material
information including the statements of persons at helm of affairs of
such companies. When the Assessing Officer while confirming the
addition has merely taken the information of Cap Vanijya (P) Ltd.
being shell/paper company and by comparing the financial patter has ITA No. 207/Ahd/2016 51 Asst. Year 2011-12

confirmed the addition but nowhere any further investigation was
carried out even when necessary details were available with him. 10. We. therefore, in the given facts and circumstances and totality
of facts of the case and our discussion made above, are of the view
that the issue relating to share capital/premium received from Netjet
Trexim (P) Ltd. and Sadasukh Dealers (P) Ltd. of Rs.18,00,000/- and
Rs.25,00,000/- respectively needs to be remitted back to the file of
Assessing Officer for making further investigation with the help of well
equipped Govt. machinery and the power to make commission to the
counter part in the city where the alleged companies are existing so
as to substantiate its plea that the alleged two companies are paper
companies and also to find out the actual modus operandi of these
companies qua investments in share capitals of other companies qua
their business operation qua the income earned during the year.
Needless to mention that assessee will have a proper opportunity of
being heard for putting forth its arguments and submissions against
the information collected by the Revenue authorities. We accordingly
partly allow assessee's appeal for statistical purposes. Asst. Year 2011-12 11. In the result, appeal of the assessee is partly allowed for
statistical purposes. Order pronounced in the open Court on 2nd March, 2017

 Sd/- sd/- 3. Date on which approved draft comes to the Sr. P. S./P.S.: 4. Date on which the fair order is placed before the
 Dictating Member for pronouncement: __________ 5. Date on which the fair order comes back to the Sr. P.S./P.S.: 6. Date on which the file goes to the Bench Clerk: 2/3/17 7. Date on which the file goes to the Head Clerk: 8. The date on which the file goes to the
 Assistant Registrar for signature on the order: 9. Date of Despatch of the Order: