1. The accused is facing trial for the offences u/s
409 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 477A IPC. The genesis of the prosecution story
is that a complaint dated 23.02.2004 was lodged by Sh. S.B.
Verma, Senior Manager O.B.C Extn. Counter Shalimar Bagh,
Delhi, against the accused R.B. Garg who was the erstwhile
Senior Manager (under suspension) and last posted at Extn.
Counter at O.B.C. Shalimar Bagh, alleging commission of
offence of criminal breach of trust, conspiracy, forgery, mis-
appropriation of public money and cheating the depositors as
well as the Bank. The allegations are to the extent that on
21.01.2004, one Sh. Mam Chand Jain who was the representative
of some of the depositors produced 47 CDRs having maturity
value of Rs. 8,00,286/- to the complainant for renewal of same
upto 28.02.2004 as the maturity date was 17.01.2004 and upon
verification of the record of renewal of such 47 CDRs, it
transpired that payment against such CDRs amounting to Rs.
7,55,860/- was already made on 30.01.2003 and each of the
CDRs reported to be bearing the signatures of the persons in
whose name they were drawn. It is also in the allegations that the
above-named Sh. Mam Chand Jain disclosed the complainant
that any of the payment of such CDRs was not received by the
depositors nor any of such 47 CDRs were signed by the original
depositors. It also transpired from the records that the vouchers
relating to the encashment of such CDRs were prepared under
the handwriting of accused R.B. Garg and he also obtained the
payment of such 47 CDRs. The allegations are also to the extent
that accused R.B. Garg renewed and delivered the 47 CDRs on
30.01.2003 without any corresponding credit in the Bank's
Books of Accounts and a particular book containing the 100
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . FDRs leaves, to which the questioned 47 CDRs belong, was also
obtained by the accused vide requisition dated 02.12.2002 from
the Extension Counter of N.K. Bagrodia Public School, Rohini
Sector-9, Delhi, and such receipt of the FDR Book was also not
accounted for in the Bank's Books of Accounts. The allegations
are also that rest of the 53 leaves out of the abovesaid FDR book
were not traceable and it was found that the accused kept with
himself a sum of Rs. 7,55,860/- out of such 47 CDRs
fraudulently and committed the offence of criminal breach of
trust and forgery while holding the position of Senior Manager at
O.B.C. Bank, Extn. Counter, Shalimar Bagh, Delhi. It is also
alleged that on being confronted by the official superiors of the
accused, he admitted his guilt in writing and expressed his
readiness to deposit the amount of such 47 CDRs with the bank
but he failed to give any satisfactory reply with respect to the
remaining 53 FDR leaves. The further probe by the superior
bank authorities also divulged that the accused got two more
FDR Books requisitioned from the Wazirpur Branch of the Bank
vide application dated 25.01.2003 and no corresponding entry
qua the receipt of such FDR books was made by him in the
relevant bank register. It is further in the allegations that the
accused also conspired with one Om Prakash Bansal and
Devender Gupta and misused the bank money by using the seven
forged leaves of FDRs bearing numbers 342085 of Rs. 2 lacs,
342086 of Rs. 2 lacs, 342073 and 3420812, 342084 of Rs.
50,000/- each as a security out of the above-mentioned 200
leaves to give two demand loans to above-named Om Prakash
Bansal to the tune of Rs. 1,80,000/- each on 23.10.2002 and
28.10.2002, respectively and another demand loan of Rs. FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . 2,40,000/- to the above-named Devender Gupta on 06.01.2003
by manipulating, tampering and fabricating the records of the
bank regarding the loan. The criminal law was set into motion
pursuant to the aforementioned complaint made by complainant
Sh. S.B. Verma and the investigation into the case began. During
the course of investigation, witnesses namely, Mam Chand Jain,
Ashok Kumar, Bhupender Sharma were examined with respect to
the deposition of the amount of the FDRs at the O.B.C Bank. The
verification regarding the bank records was also conducted and
the admitted as well as specimen handwriting and signatures of
accused were also obtained by the IO and same were sent to FSL
for comparison and analysis with the questioned documents in
the nature of original cheques, cash vouchers, registers and
requisition letters written by the accused to the concerned
branches of the bank. The supplementary chargesheet alongwith
the FSL result came to be filed by the police. After completion of
investigation, the accused was charge-sheeted for offences U/s
409/419/468/471/477A/201 IPC . 2. The accused was arrested and was admitted to bail. After
taking cognizance of the offences, the provisions of Section 207 Cr.P.C. were complied with and copy of chargesheet and
documents was supplied to accused. Arguments on charges were
heard and vide order dated 14.05.2013, charge for offences U/s
409/467/468/471/477A IPC was framed against accused. The
accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. Thereafter, the
prosecution evidence was led and the matter proceeded further
for trial of the accused. FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . 3. In order to establish guilt of the accused, prosecution has
examined 10 witnesses in all. After prosecution evidence,
statements of accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C. was recorded wherein all
the incriminating circumstances were put to accused. The
accused also led evidence in his defence and examined as many
as seven defence witnesses. Thereafter, DE was closed and final
arguments were heard. 4. I have heard the rival contentions advanced on behalf of
the prosecution and defence and have also gone through the case
file carefully. 5. The gist of allegations leveled against the accused are that
during year 2002 to 2003, the accused being posted as Senior
Manager at the Extn. Counter of Oriental Bank of Commerce,
Shalimar Bagh, Prabhu Dayal Public School was entrusted or
having dominion over the CDRs of one Bhupender Singh, his
relatives and of the other depositors amounting to Rs. 14,30,860/-
approximately and encashed the same by fraudulent issuance of
CDRs from the three CDRs books which he got issued from
O.B.C. Ashok Vihar, Wazir Pur Branch and Extn. Counter of
O.B.Cat N.K. Bagrodia Public School, Sector-9, Rohini, without
any corresponding credit in the account books of bank and
dishonestly misappropriated the cash amount of Rs. 14,30,860/-
or converted the same to his own use. It is also in the allegations
that during the aforesaid time period, the accused in the above-
mentioned capacity of the bank official was entrusted or having
dominion over the account holders of the bank, misused the bank
money by using the seven leaves of CDRs from the CDR Books

FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . bearing no. 03420012, 0342100 which he got issued from the
Extn. Counter of O.B.C. at N.K. Bagrodia Public School, Sector-
9, Rohini, as a security against two demand loans of Rs.
1,80,000/- each to Sh. Om Prakash Bansal and a loan of Rs.
2,40,000/- to Sh. Devender Gupta and dishonestly mis-
appropriated such amount by adjusting the said loan accounts.
There are also allegations to the extent that during the above-
mentioned period and in the abovesaid capacity of the official of
bank, the accused forged the signatures of the complainant and
other depositors on their CDRs and also prepared forged
vouchers relating to the encashment of those CDRs and thereafter
encashed the amount of such CDRs. The accused also allegedly
issued the forged CDRs by renewing the receipts from the three
CDR books which he got issued from N.K. Bagrodia School and
O.B.C. Wazirpur Branch, without making any corresponding
entries in the books of accounts and dishonestly used the forged
CDRs and vouchers as genuine so as to justify his illegal acts.
The allegations are also that during the above-mentioned time
period, the accused in such capacity got issued three CDR books
of the series 189801 to 189900, 0342001 to 0342100 & 0907701
to 0901800 from O.B.C. Wazirpur Branch and O.B.C. Branch at
N.K. Bagrodia Public School but willfully and with an intent to
defraud the bank did not make any corresponding entries in the
relevant bank registers and issued fake renewed CDRs to the
above named Bhupender Singh and other depositors. There are
also allegations that no entries qua the encashment of the old
CDRs in Year, 2003 were made by the accused in the Bank's
Books of Accounts and the accused also destroyed the un-used
CDRs and has also adjusted the loan accounts of Om Prakash
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . Bansal and Devender Kumar by making the false entries in the
Books of Accounts. 6. It has been contended by Ld. APP for the State that the
prosecution has established beyond all reasonable doubts that
accused has committed the offence of criminal breach of trust by
mis-appropriating the public money on the basis of the misuse of
the FDR leaves which he obtained from the other branches of the
Bank. It is also argued that the accused has not only caused
wrongful loss to the innocent depositors but has also fabricated
their signatures on the receipt vouchers on the matured FDRs and
so as to justify his illegal acts, the accused has also dishonestly
issued the fake renewed FDRs in favour of such depositors by
falsification of the Bank's Books of Accounts and thereby has
committed offences punishable u/s 409 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 477A IPC.
Ld. APP for State further submits that the accused deserves to be
convicted for the alleged offences. 7. Per contra, Ld. Defence Counsel has argued that the
accused has been falsely implicated in the present case at the
behest of the complainant S.B. Verma, who was having the
professional rivalry with the accused. It has also been argued that
there are material contradictions in the version of so called
depositor namely, Bhupender Sharma and the so called
representative of the depositors namely, Mam Chand Jain as well
as the witness Ashok Kumar qua the handing over/depositing
money with the bank for issuance of FDRs. It is also argued that
the above-named Mam Chand Jain has not produced any
authorization depicting that he was in fact authorized by the

FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . depositors to invest the money for issuing the FDRs and rather it
suggests that the so called deposit of money was made by the
above named Bhupender Sharma and Mam Chand Jain to evade
their tax liabilities and they are rather liable to be indicted under
the Prohibition of Benami Property Transaction Act . It has also
been argued that the so called confession qua the mis-
appropriation of money by the accused was extracted by the
superior bank officials from the accused by exercising the undue
influence and exerting pressure upon him and such facts have
also been established by the accused by examining the relevant
defence witnesses. It has also been argued that even the accused
has also established that no amount of the depositors was
misappropriated by him through his defence evidence. There also
lies material contradictions in the version of prosecution
witnesses, hence, accused deserve to be acquitted for the alleged
offences. 8. Prior to delving into the merits of the present case, let us
briefly discuss the testimonies of material prosecution witnesses,
in brief. PW-1 W/ASI Sarojni is a formal witness, who deposed
that on 18.04.2004, she was working as a Duty Officer and
pursuant to receiving rukka through Ct. Harish Chand, she
registered FIR Ex. PW-1/A vide endorsement on rukka Ex. PW-
1/B.

 PW-2 S.B. Verma is the complainant and the incumbent
Senior Manager of O.B.C during the relevant time. He deposed

FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . that on 21.01.2004 one Mam Chand Jain, representative of the
depositors produced 47 CDRs having maturity value of Rs.
8,00,286/- for renewal upto 28.02.2004 and on verification of the
record of all the 47 CDRs, it was found that payment against
them to the extent of Rs. 7,55,860/- was already made on
30.01.2003 and such facts were brought into notice of Mam
Chand Jain, who denied of having obtained any such payments
and also disclosed that the CDRs were not signed by the
depositors. He further deposed that from records, it was found
that the vouchers relating to the encashment of CDRs were
prepared under the handwriting of accused R.B. Garg and he
obtained the payment of such 47 CDRs and thereafter renewed
and delivered 47 CDRs on 30.01.2003 bearing numbers 0907725
to 0907771 out of the CDR Book No. 0907701 to 0907800
containing 100 FDRs leaves which was obtained by him vide
requisition dated 02.12.2002 from the Extn. Counter of N.K.
Bagrodia Public School, Sector-9, Rohini, without making any
corresponding entries in the Bank's Books of Accounts. He
deposed that the rest of 53 leaves of such CDR Books were not
traceable and the accused kept with himself Rs. 7,55,860/-
belonging to the 47 CDRs fraudulently. He further deposed that
on inquiry at the office, it was also revealed that the accused
requisitioned two FDR books from serial no.189801 to 189900
from Wazir Pur Branch against application dated 25.01.2003
which was actually delivered on 27.02.2003 and FDR Book with
serial no. 0342001 to 0342100 from N.K. Bagrodia School,
Rohini, on 02.03.2001 without making any entries in the security
register. He also deposed that the further inquiry revealed that
accused conspired with one Om Prakash Bansal and Devender
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . Gupta and misused the bank money by issuing seven forged
leaves of the FDRs bearing nos. 342085, 342086, 342073,
342081 to 342084 and against such FDRs, two demand loans of
Rs. 1,80,000/- each were advanced to Om Prakash Bansal on
23.10.2002 and 28.10.2002 respectively, and one demand loan of
Rs. 2,40,000/- was advanced to Devender Gupta on 06.01.2003.
The accused got adjusted such loan accounts on 22.05.2003 and
07.02.2003. He further deposed that on subsequent inquiry it was
revealed that accused issued 30 forged FDRs while posted at the
Extn. Counter of the Shalimar Bagh Branch of the Bank and the
face value of such FDRs was Rs. 5 lacs. He deposed that Mam
Chand Jain informed of having deposited Rs. 5 lacs in cash to the
accused and in pursuance thereof, 30 FDRs for such amount were
handed over to him by accused and on 07.02.2003 those 30 FDRs
were issued by the accused from the same FDR book which he
obtained from the other branches of O.B.C. Bank without making
the corresponding entries in the relevant books. He also deposed
that in Year, 2004, one Manoj Jain came to his office and
informed that he had also given Rs. 1,75,000/- to accused for
issuance of FDRs and on inquiry it revealed that accused issued
12 forged FDRs in his own handwriting to Manoj Jain in the
same manner as were issued to Mam Chand Jain while he was
posted at the Extn. Counter of Shalimar Bagh Branch of the
Bank. The maturity value of such 12 forged FDRs was around
Rs. 2,28,000/-. He further deposed that those 12 FDRs were also
issued by accused from the same FDR book which he obtained
from the other branches of the bank without making the entries in
that regard. He also deposed that on 22.01.2004, he reported the
matter at Regional Office at Karol Bagh and on 23.01.2004, the
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . accused was called at Regional Office where he admitted his
guilt and also admitted of depositing the cheated amount. He
deposed that the whereabouts of remaining 211 FDRs were not
told by the accused. He identified the accused in Court. He
further deposed that complaint Ex. PW-2/A was made by him and
the list of 30 FDRs issued by accused to Mam Chand Jain is Ex.
PW-2/B, list of 12 FDRs issued to Manoj Jain is Ex. PW-2/C, the
list of 47 FDRs issued by accused on 17.01.2002 is Ex. PW-2/D.
He deposed that those 47 FDRs were up till 17.01.2023 and the
amount of same was withdrawn by the accused himself before
the beneficiaries approached the bank for their renewal on
17.01.2002. He deposed that the beneficiaries of such 47 FDRs
approached the accused on 17.01.2003 for their renewal till
17.01.2004 and at that point accused issued 47 FDRs from the
same book which he got issued from another branch without
making corresponding entries in the security book. The list of
such 47 forged FDRs is Ex. PW-2/E. He further deposed that on
21.01.2004, when the beneficiaries of such 47 FDRs came to him
for further renewal, it transpired that the FDRs so issued by the
accused were forged and the payment against the original FDRs
issued by the accused on 17.01.2002 was already withdrawn by
him from the bank on 30.01.2003. He also deposed that
disclosure statement Ex. PW-6/F was made by the accused. He
also identified the bundles containing 47 FDRs and 85 FDRs so
issued by the accused to the customers without making entries in
the relevant books. PW-3 Ashok Kumar deposed that one person namely,
Bhagwan Gupta was posted as Cashier in O.B.C. Bank Shalimar
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . Bagh and used to meet him at his friend Mam Chand Jain's
Office. He deposed that in January, 2002, he went to the office of
Mam Chand Jain and at that time, Cashier Bhagwan Gupta came
there and asked him that for achieving the targets of FDs in bank,
some FDRs were required to be issued and upon such request of
Bhagwan Gupta, he talked to his friend Bhupender Sharma, who
agreed to get the money deposited in O.B.C. Bank as fixed
deposits. He deposed that he met with Bhupender Sharma in
Noida, where he handed over cash of Rs. 7 lacs, which was
further given by him to Bhagwan Gupta and against the said
amount, Bhagwan Gupta handed over 47 certificates of FDs
which were below the amount of Rs. 20,000/-. He deposed that
the names of the beneficiaries were not told by him to Bhagwan
Gupta and he himself mentioned the names of beneficiaries in the
FD certificates. He deposed that in January, 2003, he returned 47
certificates to Bhagwan Gupta for renewal and after renewal the
said certificates were handed over to him by Bhagwan Gupta.
He further deposed that in February, 2003, Bhupender Sharma
again requested him to get the fixed deposits of Rs. 5 lacs or
more and he handed over such amount to Bhagwan Gupta for
issuing fixed deposits and 30 more FD Certificates were given to
him by Bhagwan Gupta, which were in the names of unknown
persons. He deposed that the whole amount of Rs. 12 lacs
belonged to Bhupender Sharma. Therefore, he handed over all
such 77 certificates to Bhupender Sharma and after some days,
Bhupender Sharma informed him that all such 47 certificates of
FDs were found fake. He identified the FD certificates from the
court file. During his cross-examination, he stated of not
knowing the names of persons which were mentioned in the FD
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . certificates. He admitted of not having any receipt/
acknowledgment regarding the handing over of Rs. 7 lacs or Rs.
5 lacs to Bhagwan Gupta. He admitted that the accused did not
give him any certificate nor he was known to accused. PW-4 Mam Chand Jain deposed that Bhupender Sharma
was known to him as they both were property dealers and in
January, 2004, 47 FD Certificates were given to him by
Bhupender Sharma for the renewal from O.B.C. Bank, Shalimar
Bagh Branch. He deposed of visiting Shalimar Bagh Branch of
O.B.C. Bank where he gave all 47 FD certificates to Senior
Manager S.B. Verma. All such certificates were in different
names and their total value was Rs. 7 lacs. He deposed that the
Manager checked the bank records and found that no entries
regarding the issuance of such certificates were made in the Bank
records. He deposed that Bhupender Sharma was also informed
by him of such facts and he further provided 30 FD certificates
for verification from the bank but he informed him that such
verification should be done by him on his own. He also identified
the FD certificates from the Court file. During his cross-
examination, he stated of not knowing the names of persons
which were mentioned on the FD certificates. He stated that
Bhupender Sharma did not give any authority letter to him for
renewal and he was neither the beneficiary nor nominee in the
said certificates. He stated that his money was not involved in
the fixed deposits and he was also not having any personal
relationship with the persons whose names were mentioned in the
FDRs. He could not state whether someone signed the
certificates on their back side or not nor he could state whether
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . such certificates were having signatures of any of the depositors. PW-5 Bhupender Sharma deposed that he was a property
dealer by profession and Ashok Kumar is his friend, who used to
generally meet him and in January, 2002, Ashok Kumar came to
his office in Alaknanda Market, Noida and told him that there
was requirement of money for purpose of fixed deposits in the
bank, to which Rs. 7 lacs were handed over in cash to Ashok
Kumar. He deposed that Ashok Kumar handed over the said
money to Mam Chand Jain, who deposited it with O.B.C.
Shalimar Bagh Branch and got issued total 47 FDs for worth Rs.
7 lacs. He deposed that while handing over the money, the names
of his family members were told by him to Ashok Kumar for
purpose of issuing FDs but he could not state about the names of
persons in whose favour the FDs were issued. He further deposed
that the FDs were for a term of one year and they remained with
Mam Chand Jain. He further deposed that in Year, 2003 Mam
Chand Jain told him through Ashok Kumar that his FDs have
matured and asked for their renewal, to which Mam Chand Jain
got renewed the said 47 FDRs and also asked for Rs. 5 lacs more.
He deposed that all such conversations with Mam Chand Jain
were through Ashok Kumar and in January, 2003, Rs. 5 lacs in
cash were also handed over to Ashok Kumar and from such
amount, total 30 FDs were also issued from the bank. He further
deposed that in January, 2004, Mam Chand Jain again went to the
bank and came to know that a forgery was committed by the
Bank Manager and such facts were informed by him to Ashok
Kumar, who further informed about the same to him. He deposed
that the FDs issued by the Bank were not seen by him as they

FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . always remained with Mam Chand Jain. During his cross-
examination, he stated that he never visited Shalimar Bagh
Branch of O.B.C. Bank and the money was handed over to the
Bank Manager through Ashok Kumar. PW-6 Retd. Insp. Hanuman Daan was the IO in the present
case. He deposed that after endorsement on complaint Ex. PW-
6/A, the present FIR already Ex. PW-1/A was registered and
another complaint Mark-6B was also received by him from S.B.
Verma. He deposed that the accused was arrested vide arrest
memo Ex. PW-6/B, his personal search was conducted vide
memo Ex. PW-6/C and the house of accused was searched vide
memo Ex. PW-6/D. He also deposed that body inspection memo
of accused Ex. PW-6/E was prepared and his disclosure
statement Ex. PW-6/F was recorded. He further deposed that
during investigation, specimen signatures and handwriting of
accused Ex. PW-6/G (Colly.) were taken in presence of HC
Jawahar Lal and the admitted signatures and the handwriting of
accused were seized vide seizure memo Ex. PW-6/H. He also
deposed that the fake FD certificates and the admitted as well as
specimen handwriting/signatures of accused were sent to FSL.
He further deposed that the disclosure statement of accused Ex.
PW-6/I was recorded by him and the documents from Chief
Manager namely, Vimal Kumar Jain and Senior Manager namely,
V.K. Chopra were seized by him vide memos Ex. PW-6/J and Ex.
PW-6/K respectively. PW-7 S.C. Sharma is the Retired General Manager, O.B.
C. Bank. He deposed that in Year, 2004 he was posted as General

FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . Manager in the Regional Office, Delhi and at that time S.B.
Verma informed him that the fake FDRs were issued from the
Shalimar Bagh Branch in the tenure of accused R.B. Garg who
was posted as Manager in the said bank and upon inquiry, the
accused was found guilty by the inquiry team. He deposed that
the accused was called by him to his office where he admitted his
guilt and the amount of the fake FDRs was also deposited by him
with the concerned branches but he did not disclose about the
three FDR books which he had taken on the other branches. He
also deposed that the accused has taken loans against fake FDRs
and the said loan amount was credited in the name of persons
namely, Bansal and Gupta by using the entries of fake FDRs. He
further deposed that vide his letter dated 18.06.2004 Ex. PW-7/A,
the affidavit of accused, posting letters and hand written letters
were handed over to the IO. He further deposed that the certified
copy of the posting letter of accused is Ex. PW-7/C, certified
copies of two hand written letters of accused are Ex. PW-7/D and
Ex. PW-7/E. He also identified the accused in Court. During his
cross-examination, he admitted that the amount of fake FDRs
were deposited by the accused. He could not state about the
period when the fake FDRs were issued. He deposed that the
inspection team of Bank examines the complete bank records but
he could not state when the inspection of Shalimar Bagh had
taken place. PW-8 Balbir Singh deposed that he received the cash
vouchers and FDRs from the authorized signatories and on the
basis of same, same were encashed and thereafter, he was
encountered with questions in the nature of cross-examination by

FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . Ld. APP for State and admitted that he was working as cashier in
O.B.C Shalimar Bagh on 30.01.2003. He admitted that he had
encashed the cash vouchers and CDRs on getting the signatures
of the authorized signatories of the bank. He could not state
about the serial numbers of the cash vouchers and CDRs which
were marked to him. He admitted that he handed over the cash
which was encashed on the basis of FDRs and CDRs after
receiving the same from accused in his cabin. He deposed that at
that time some persons were sitting in the cabin of accused. He
could not state whether the cash was paid to the depositors or not.
his cross-examination, he stated that the cash was handed over to
his Manager on his order. PW- SI Rishal Singh (incorrectly numbered as PW-8)
deposed that on 20.10.2004, he went to Regional Office of
O.B.C. Bank where General Manager gave him a letter and 12
documents which were brought by him and were handed over to
the IO. PW-9 Retd. ASI Jawahar Lal deposed that on 28.04.2004,
he joined the investigation and went to the house of accused at
Chetak Apartment Rohini, Sector-2, where the IO arrested the
accused, conducted his personal search, prepared body inspection
memo, searched the house of accused and recorded his disclosure
statement. He also deposed that the specimen
signatures/handwriting of accused were also taken in his
presence. This is the entire prosecution evidence on record. FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . 9. As stated earlier, the accused has also led evidence in
defence and has examined as many as 7 defence witnesses. The
testimonies of the defence witnesses examined by the accused are
as under: DW-7/4 (colly). This is the entire defence evidence on record. 10. Having discussed the testimonies of the prosecution and
defence witnesses, now let us advert to the merits of the present
case. 11. The gist of allegations levelled against the accused relates
to offences U/s 409/467/468/471/477A IPC . As far as the allegations with respect to offence U/s 409 IPC are concerned, it is pertinent to mention that such allegations
relate to the acts of dishonest misappropriation of the cash
amount of Rs. 14,30,860/- by the accused while having dominion
over the same in capacity of the Senior Manager at the Extn.
Counter of O.B.C. Shalimar Bagh, Prabhu Dayal School, Rohini,

FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . Delhi. More specifically, such allegations revolve around the
facts that the accused got encashed the FDRs of the above-
mentioned amount belonging to the depositors and issued the
fake FDRs on the pretext of renewal of the earlier FDRs of the
said amount, which were already encashed by him without the
knowledge of the depositors. These allegations are also relating
to the facts that the accused being entrusted or having dominion
over the accounts of persons in the O.B.C. Bank in the capacity
of the Senior Manager also misused the seven leaves from a CDR
book which he got issued from the different bank branches and in
order to justify said acts, he also advanced two demand loans of
Rs. 1,80,000/- each to Sh. Om Prakash Bansal and a loan of Rs.
2,40,000/- to Sh. Devender Gupta without taking any security
against the said loans. The contentions raised on behalf of the
accused negating his culpability for the offences in question are
that the prosecution has failed to establish the dishonest
misappropriation of the amount relating to the FDRs in question
by the accused as no depositor of the said FDRs have ever staked
any claim qua any loss being caused to him. It has also been
argued that there are glaring contradictions in the versions of
witnesses namely, Bhupender Sharma, Ashok Kumar and Mam
Chand Jain with respect to the custody of the original FDRs and
even none of the said persons were any of the depositors of the
such impugned FDRs. It has also been argued that no wrongful
loss was caused to any of the beneficiaries of the said impugned
FDRs as the accused himself deposited the amount of the FDRs
with the bank even without any liability to make such payment as
it is evident from the testimonies of the defence witnesses
examined by the accused that the amount of the matured FDRs
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . was already handed over to them by the concerned bank branch. 12. The provisions of Section 409 IPC relate to offence of
Criminal Breach of Trust by a Public Servant or by Banker,
Merchant or Agent etc.. The essential ingredients of this offence
are as under:- 13. In the present case, the fact that the accused R.B. Garg was
working as Senior Manager at Extn. Counter of O.B.C. Shalimar
Bagh, Prabhu Dayal Public School during the relevant time
period is not in dispute. Further, it is also not in dispute that the
accused in such official capacity was having control or dominion
over the FDRs in question. It has also not been disputed by the
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . accused that the relevant FDR books to which the impugned
FDRs also relates, were issued from the different branches of the
bank on the requisition made by the accused. Therefore, it can be
safely held that the above-mentioned first two ingredients for
offence U/s 409 IPC have been duly established in the present
case. However, so far as the third ingredient is concerned, it is
pertinent to mention that the prosecution has failed to establish
the dishonest misappropriation or conversion to his own use the
amount of the impugned FDRs by the accused for the reasons
here-in which have been discussed here-in-after. Pertinently, the story of the prosecution is that the amount
of the impugned FDRs was funded by PW-5 Bhupender Sharma.
The mere perusal of the testimony of PW-5 Bhupender Sharma
suggests that he was not a beneficiary to any of the impugned
FDRs. This witness also failed to state about the names of the
beneficiaries of such FDRs and even stated that the FDRs were
prepared from his money which he handed over to Mam Chand
Jain through his friend namely, Ashok Kumar and the said FD
certificates remained in the possession of Mam Chand Jain
throughout. The careful perusal of the testimony of PW-4 Mam
Chand Jain, however, suggests that he has deposed of being
directly acquainted with PW-5 Bhupender Sharma and stated to
have got issued the FDRs on his instructions, after which the said
FD certificates were handed over to him. It is pertinent to
mention that PW-4 Mam Chand Jain has not produced any
document establishing that he was the authorized representative
of any of the named customers/depositors of the impugned
FDRs. It is also pertinent to point out that as per the version of

FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . PW-3 Ashok Kumar, he got issued the impugned FDRs from the
money belonging to Bhupender Sharma as the request was made
by bank's cashier Bhagwan Gupta for investment in the FDRs to
achieve the targets. This witness also could not state about the
names of the beneficiaries of such FDRs and rather stated that
such names were mentioned by the bank's cashier Bhagwan
Gupta himself. It is also pertinent to mention that none of the
customers of bank/named depositors of the impugned FDRs have
ever staked any claim with the bank or the police with respect to
any wrongful loss caused to them due to the alleged acts of
accused and even no such persons have been examined as
prosecution witnesses. On the contrary, rather the accused has
examined DWs namely, Vikas, Sachin Bansal and Rajinder
Mohan Bansal in his defence evidence and all the above-named
persons have confirmed that they were the named beneficiaries of
the impugned FDRs, the amount of which was already received
by them from the concerned bank branch at the time of the
maturity of the FDRs in question. Therefore, the acts of dishonest
misappropriation of the amount of Rs. 14,30,860/- by the accused
or conversion of such amount of FDRs to his own use by the
accused has not been established by the prosecution and hence,
the aforesaid third essential ingredient for fastening the liability
of the accused for such offence has not been established. 14. It is also worthwhile to mention here that with respect to
the second charge framed against the accused qua the offence U/s
409 IPC , the prosecution has failed to establish any nexus
between the accused and the bank customers namely, Om
Prakash Bansal and Devender Gupta, to whom the alleged
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . unsecured demand loans were sanctioned by the accused against
the fake renewed FDRs, the amount of which was actually
encashed by the accused. There is no iota of evidence on record
to establish the existence of any prior concert or any criminal
conspiracy between the accused and the afore-named persons
Om Prakash Bansal and Devender Gupta. The accused has rather
probablized his version that the above-mentioned demand loans
were fully secured through the four FDRs by examining DW-7
Chitranjan Chaudhary, who is a bank official who produced the
copy of relevant loan related documents. The original loan
related documents, however, did not see the light of the day as
even the incumbent bank i.e. PNB (O.B.C having merged with
PNB) was also not in a clear knowledge regarding the
whereabouts of the said documents and these facts also
strengthens the version of the accused that there has been some
deliberate attempt by the bank for not producing such original
records as the accused was falsely implicated by the erstwhile
Senior Manager S.B. Verma on account of some professional
rivalry with the accused. Moreover, it has also not been
established by the prosecution that any wrongful loss to the bank
was caused on account of the aforesaid alleged unsecured
demand loans sanctioned by the accused as it has remained
undisputed that the entire allegedly misappropriated amount was
deposited by the accused with the concerned bank and hence,
even the second charge with respect to the offence U/s 409 IPC against the accused appears to be unfounded. 15. The accused has also been indicted for offences U/s
467/468/471 IPC . These offences involve the allegations qua the

FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . forgery of the signatures of the depositors by the accused on the
FDRs and encashment vouchers. It also relates to the acts of
forgery of signatures of the depositors by the accused on the FDR
renewal receipts and also the dishonest and unlawful use of the
forged and fake renewed FDR certificates by the accused so as to
justify his illegal acts. The main premise on which the accused
has been charged for these offences is that the FDR Books to
which the alleged renewed fake FDRs belongs, were issued on
the requisition made by the accused without any corresponding
entries in the relevant bank registers. It is pertinent to mention
that during the course of investigation of the case, the specimen
handwriting and signatures of accused as well as the documents
containing the admitted handwriting and signatures of the
accused were sent to FSL for comparison and analysis with the
questioned documents and the FSL report dated 21.02.2006 came
to be filed on record alongwith the supplementary chargesheet.
Even though, on cursory perusal of the said FSL report, it reflects
that the handwriting/signatures on the questioned documents i.e.
94 vouchers, 76 deposit receipts, original bank letters,
photocopies of security forms, stock register of bank, copy of
account opening forms, original security stock register tallied
with the handwriting/signatures of accused on the specimen
documents and the admitted documents. In this regard, it is
pertinent to mention that the testimony of IO i.e. PW-6 Retd.
Insp. Hanuman Daan states that the specimen signatures and the
handwriting of the accused were taken by him in the presence of
HC Jawahar Lal and the documents containing admitted
handwriting/signatures of the accused were seized by him vide
seizure memo Ex. PW-6/H and same were sent to FSL for
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . analysis with the questioned documents. In this regard, it is
pertinent to mention that the accused has raised dispute with
respect to the conclusions stated in the aforementioned FSL result
dated 21.02.2006 stating that the specimen handwriting and
signatures i.e. Mark 'S1' to 'S113' does not belonged to him and
same have been planted by the IO by acting in connivance with
the incumbent Senior Manager S.B. Verma so as to falsely
implicate the accused in the present case, though, no dispute has
been raised by the accused qua taking of the documents
containing his admitted handwriting and signatures by the IO
from the concerned bank. It is pertinent to mention here that on
mere perusal of the FSL result dated 21.02.2006, it reflects that
same does not distinctly mentions about the findings relating to
the tallying of the specimen handwriting/signatures of the
accused and the admitted handwriting/signatures of the accused
with the questioned documents. In other words, it has not been
mentioned in the FSL result that which of the particular
questioned document tallied with the handwriting/signatures of
accused on the documents containing his specimen
signatures/handwriting or the documents containing the admitted
signatures/handwriting of the accused. This court is well
conscious of the fact that at the time when the specimen
handwriting/signatures of accused were taken by the IO, the
provisions of Section 311A IPC were not in existence in the
statue book and hence, there was no embargo on the part of IO to
obtain the specimen signatures/handwriting of the accused
without the permission of the Court but the prosecution was duty
bound to establish that such specimen handwriting/signatures of
the accused were taken by the IO without any compulsion,
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . pressure, coercion etc. exercised upon the accused and also that
same belonged to the accused only and were not the planted
documents. The testimonies of PW-6 Retd. Insp. Hanuman Daan
and PW-9 Retd. ASI Jawahar Lal are vague in this regard as they
simply stated that the specimen handwriting/signatures of the
accused were taken by PW-6 in presence of PW-9 but the place
of such exercise, the date, the time and other necessary details
thereof have not been mentioned in the testimonies of both the
said witnesses, therefore, the version of the accused that the said
specimen signatures/ handwriting does not belong to him cannot
be completely ruled out. It is also worthwhile to point here that as
per the expressed provisions of Section 293 Cr.PC, even though
the FSL report dated 21.02.2006 appears to be a document not
requiring a formal proof thereof but in the considered opinion of
this Court, the examination of the author of such report i.e. Sh.
Ami Lal Daksh, Senior Scientific Assistant (Documents FSL)
Govt. of NCT of Delhi, was necessary in the present case in
accordance with Section 293 (2) Cr.PC as the accused has raised
dispute regarding giving any specimen handwriting/signatures to
the IO during the investigation and hence, it was necessary to
ascertain from the above-mentioned Scientific Expert from FSL
that as to which of the questioned documents matched with the
handwriting/signatures of the accused on the admitted documents
qua which the accused has apparently not raised any dispute.
However, it is a matter of record that despite numerous
opportunities, the prosecution could not secure the attendance of
the above-named witness Sh. Ami Lal Daksh, due to which his
name was struck from the list of witnesses vide order dated
08.07.2022 passed by Ld. Transferor Court and due to such
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . reasons, the entire FSL report dated 21.02.2006 cannot be relied
upon to hold the accused liable for the alleged offences. It is also
not been explained by the prosecution as to why no efforts were
made by the IO during the investigation to take the specimen
handwriting/signatures of the original depositors of the FDRs in
question and send the same for comparison and analysis with the
questioned documents, so as to alternatively establish that such
FDRs, renewal forms and encashment vouchers were not signed
by the said original depositors and hence, due to such reasons
also, the commission of the alleged offences in question cannot
be said to be established by the prosecution. As the prosecution
has not established that the impugned FDRs, encashment
vouchers, renewal receipts etc. were forged by the accused,
hence, the accused cannot be held liable for offences U/s 467 &
U/s 468 IPC . 16. The liability of accused with respect to offence U/s 471 IPC is being discussed separately alongwith the discussion qua
the offence U/s 477A IPC for which the accused has been
separately charged, as both these offences involves the
appreciation of the similar evidences. As stated earlier, the
accused has been charged for the offence U/s 471 IPC on the
premise that no corresponding entries were made by him in the
Bank's Books of Accounts by the accused at the time when he
obtained the three FDR Books from the different bank branches,
to which the impugned FDRs relates. The accused has also been
separately charged for offence U/s 477A IPC with the allegations
he got issued the said three FDR Books from the Wazirpur
Branch and another Branch at N.K. Bagrodia Public School
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . without making the necessary entries qua the receipt of such
FDR books and also failed to make the necessary entries in the
Bank's Books of Accounts qua the encashment of the old original
FDRs. It has been contended on behalf of accused that as per the
relevant Bank Circular No. HO/PER/59/18/2002/397 dated
18.03.2022 which is Mark 'DX1' (Colly), the safe custody of the
security documents did not fall within the ambit and parlance of
the official duties of the accused as same was domain to be
looked after by the second man at the bank branch i.e. Mr. P.K.
Soni and hence, the accused cannot be held liable for the charge
in question. In this regard it is also pertinent to mention that on
mere perusal of the aforesaid document, it transpires that same in
clear term specifies that the matters relating to the joint custody
of the cash and security papers including the valuables falls
within the key performance areas of the second man at the bank
branch, as reflected in the aforementioned bank circular dated
18.03.2002. It is also a matter of record that through the
testimonies of DW-2 Dinesh Bhagat who was also one of the
erstwhile Bank official, customers/depositors i.e. DWs namely,
Vikas, Sachin Bansal and Rajinder Mohan Bansal, it has been
established that Mr. P.K. Soni was the Second Man In-charge of
the bank branch during the relevant time period and the afore-
named depositors also dealt with him during such time period in
connection with the encashment of the amount of the questioned
FDRs, hence, it cannot be said that the accused only was solely
responsible for the custody of the FDRs in question as well as the
relevant security registers. It is also pertinent to point out that in
order to make a person liable for offence U/s 477A IPC , it is
necessary to establish that the alleged falsification in the records
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . was done by the person/accused with an intent to defraud another
party. The discussion made in the preceding part of this judgment
clearly reflects that the prosecution has failed to establish the
existence of criminal misappropriation of the money relating to
the impugned FDRs by the accused, hence, the element of
deception/fraud appears to be clearly missing in the present case
and due to such reasons, the commission of offence U/s 477A IPC by the accused cannot be said to be established. 17. It is also worth mentioning here that it has been conceded
by PW-7 S.C. Sharma, who was the General Manager, O.B.C
during the relevant time period that as per the bank rules, annual
inspections were conducted at the bank branch and there was also
no bar on the part of the concerned Regional Manager for visiting
a bank branch at any time during the financial year for its
inspection. It is pertinent to mention here that the prosecution has
not produced any of the records relating to the inspection of the
bank branch where the accused was posted during the relevant
time or at any time prior thereto, to establish the alleged
falsification of records by the accused. This crucial omission on
the part of prosecution also strengthens the version of accused
that he was falsely implicated in the present case due to some
professional rivalry with the complainant/incumbent Senior
Manager of the bank branch. The testimony of defence witnesses
namely, Manohar Dhingra (DW-1) and Dinesh Bhagat (DW-2)
who were also the bank officials during the relevant time period
also suggest that the confession on affidavit Ex. PW-7/B was
extracted from the accused by the incumbent General Manager of
the Bank with the assurance for providing the promotion to the
FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . accused in a routine manner by ignoring the discrepancies and
hence, such affidavit of the accused cannot be solely relied upon
to attribute any guilt upon him for the alleged offences without
any other corroborative evidences on record. 18. The discussion made above is clearly suggestive of the fact
that the prosecution has miserably failed to establish that during
Year, 2002-2003 the accused in capacity of Senior Manager at
O.B.C Shalimar Bagh Prabhu Dayal School was entrusted or
having dominion over the FDRs of Bhupender Singh and other
depositors valuing Rs. 14,30,860/- and dishonestly encashed the
same without consent and knowledge of the depositors and to
justify his such illegal acts, the accused also forged the signatures
of the depositors on the encashment vouchers and also issued the
fake renewed FDRs of such depositors by using the FDR leaves
from the books which were obtained by him from the different
bank branches without making necessary corresponding entries
in the bank's books of accounts and the security registers. The
prosecution has also failed to establish that in order to justify his
illegal acts of criminal misappropriation of the money of
innocent depositors, the accused also advanced three unsecured
demand loans in favour of Om Prakash Bansal and Devender
Gupta respectively, on the basis of the fake renewed FDRs. The
prosecution has also failed to establish that the accused
committed forgery of the FDRs, encashment vouchers, renewal
receipts and made falsification in the bank's accounts books by
not making the necessary entries in such books. Accordingly,
accused R.B. Garg is hereby acquitted for offences u/s
409 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 477A IPC. FIR No. 384/2004 State Vs. R.B. Garg . 19. The bail bonds, if any furnished by accused at the time of
commencement of trail stands cancelled. Surety, if any stands
discharged. Documents, if any shall be returned to its rightful
owner as per rules. Endorsements, if any stand cancelled. Case
property if any, shall be disposed off after expiration of period to
assail this judgment and in case of appeal, as per the directions of
Ld. Appellate Court. Case file be consigned to record room after
due compliance.