J U D G M E N T
with Civil Appeal No. 2276 of 2002

SRIKRISHNA, J. These two appeals under Section 10 of the Special Courts (Trial of 
Offences Relating to Transactions in Securities) Act, 1992 (hereinafter 
referred to as "the Act") are against the judgments of the Special Court 
constituted under Section 5 of the Act, by which judgments the Special 
Court dismissed Special Court Suit No. 11/96 and allowed Misc. Petition 
No. 81/95, which had been transferred to it. As a result of the said two 
judgments of the Special Court, the claim made by the appellant-Standard 
Chartered Bank (hereinafter referred to as "SCB") was negatived in 
dismissed Suit No. 11/96, and the application made by Canara Bank as 
principal trustee of Canbank Mutual Fund (hereinafter referred to as "CMF") 
for a direction to Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd. (hereinafter 
referred to as "NPCL") to register CMF as the owner of certain bonds and to 
pay the interest payable thereon was allowed. FACTS: On 26.2.1992, NPCL issued a letter of allotment (hereinafter referred to as 
the "LOA") confirming the allotment of 9% tax free bonds of the nominal 
value of Rs. 50 crores (hereinafter referred to as the "suit bonds"). NPCL 
also said that intimation would be given in due course as to when the 
allotment letter duly discharged may be exchanged for bond certificates, and 
that the interest payable on the suit bonds would accrue from the date of 
allotment, payable on half yearly basis. On the same day ABFSL sold the 
suit bonds to SCB and in connection with the said sale issued its Cost 
Memo No. 057 dated 26.2.1992 indicating the particulars of the suit bonds 
and the cost at which they were being sold i.e. @ 85.05 at the total cost of 
Rs. 42,52,50,000/-. Against the receipt of the said Cost Memo No. 057 from 
ABFSL, SCB issued a Pay Order No. 246408 dated 26.2.1992 for the sum 
of Rs. 42,52,50,000/-. ABFSL, in turn, issued a Banker's Receipt 
(hereinafter referred to as "BR") No. 23728 acknowledging receipt of the 
sum of Rs. 42,52,50,000/- from SCB towards the cost of the suit bonds and 
undertook to deliver the suit bonds of the value of Rs. 50 crores, when ready, 
in exchange for the said BR duly discharged, and assured that, in the 
meantime, the suit bonds would be held on account of SCB. On 
26/27.2.1992, ABFSL addressed a letter to SCB requiring SCB to hand over 
its BR No. 23728 in lieu of the original LOA in respect of the suit bonds as 
well as the 17% NPCL taxable bonds, which were said to have been 
enclosed with the said letter. According to SCB, in April/May 1992, when the securities scam 
broke out, the officers of SCB made an investigation of its records and found 
that SCB did not have in its possession the original LOA, but only a 
photocopy. On 20.5.1992, SCB wrote to NPCL alleging that though in ABFSL's 
letter dated 26.2.1992, it was stated that the original LOA was forwarded, 
SCB had found that only a photocopy of the LOA had been enclosed. A 
copy of ABFSL's concerned letter was also enclosed. SCB further stated 
that the original LOA purportedly sent by ABFSL was not available, that a 
note may be made in NPCL's records that the original LOA was missing 
and, therefore, due caution should be exercised by NPCL. SCB also 
requested for issue of a duplicate allotment letter on the undertaking to 
return the original, if received by it, and keeping NPCL indemnified against 
claims, if any, arising out of issue of the duplicate. On 29.5.1992, SCB 
requested ABFSL to confirm to NPCL the fact of having sold the suit bonds 
to SCB. On the same date, ABFSL addressed a letter to NPCL (with a copy 
endorsed to SCB), confirming having sold the suit bonds to SCB on 
26.2.1992. They also confirmed that they had no objection to NPCL issuing 
a duplicate LOA to SCB. On 8.6.1992 one Hiten P. Dalal (hereinafter referred to as "HPD"), 
who was acting as a broker in a large number of securities transactions of 
banks and financial institutions, was declared a 'notified person' under the 
provisions of Section 3 of the Act. On 20.6.1992 SCB filed a First 
Information Report ("FIR") against HPD and its own employees alleging 
that, as a result of a conspiracy between HPD and its own employees, 
several securities and monies had been misappropriated by HPD. On 14.7.1992 CMF filled up a Transfer Deed dated 13.7.1992 and 
lodged it along with the original LOA with NPCL seeking transfer and 
registration of the suit bonds in its name. On 3.8.1992, NPCL wrote to SCB 
that the matter with regard to issuance of duplicate LOA of the suit bonds 
was being considered in consultation with its solicitors. On 17.8.1992, CMF 
wrote to NPCL claiming that the suit bonds had been bought on 27.2.1992 
from ABFSL through a broker, HPD, and that the consideration therefor had 
been paid by certain adjustments between itself and ABFSL. CMF claimed 
that it was the legitimate holder of the suit bonds as it had received them 
against valid consideration. On 8.9.1992, NPCL informed CMF that they 
had received a request for issue of a duplicate LOA pertaining to the suit 
bonds from SCB, which was also claiming purchase of the suit bonds from 
ABFSL. On 8.9.1992 by another letter, NPCL informed SCB that CMF had 
lodged the original LOA for registration claiming to have purchased the suit 
bonds from ABFSL on 27.2.1992. On 30.9.1992 NPCL asked ABFSL to 
confirm if it had sold the suit bonds to SCB as NPCL had received the LOA 
and the transfer deed in relation to the suit bonds duly endorsed by ABFSL 
in favour of CMF. On 30.9.1992 NPCL informed CMF that as early as on 
20.5.1992 it had received a letter from SCB conveying that the suit bonds 
had been transferred in SCB's favour by ABFSL and enclosing a letter of 
ABFSL to evidence the transaction. They also referred to another letter of 
29.5.1992 by ABFSL confirming that ABFSL had sold the suit bonds to 
SCB on 26.2.1992 and that it had no objection to issuing/transferring the 
LOA/bonds to SCB. On 9.10.1992 SCB wrote to NPCL stating that as the 
suit bonds had been issued to ABFSL, who had confirmed selling the same 
to SCB, the LOA from CMF may be disregarded. By another letter of 
15.10.1992 from ABFSL to NPCL, ABFSL once again confirmed the selling 
of the suit bonds to SCB and stated that as per market practice the suit bonds 
had been sold with blank transfer deeds to SCB. On 6.11.1992 NPCL 
informed SCB that, since there was a dispute over the ownership of the suit 
bonds between SCB and CMF, the matter should be resolved between SCB 
and CMF, only after which necessary action would be taken by it. On 27.11.1992 SCB filed Suit No. 3808/92 on the Original Side of the 
Bombay High Court against ABFSL, CMF and NPCL for a declaration that 
it was entitled to the suit bonds and for an order directing NPCL to register 
the suit bonds in the name of SCB and to hand over the same to SCB. A 
further declaration was sought that CMF had no right, title and interest in the 
suit bonds; in the alternative, SCB sought refund from ABFSL. The said suit 
came to be transferred to the Special Court on 25.9.1996 and was re-
numbered as Special Court Suit No. 11 of 1996. On 27.11.1992 CMF filed a petition before the Company Law Board 
(hereinafter referred to as "CLB") under Section 111 of the Companies Act, 
1956 seeking registration of the suit bonds in its name. The original 
respondents to the petition were NPCL, ABFSL and HPD. SCB was 
subsequently joined as a party respondent. In this petition, CMF alleged that 
it had purchased the suit bonds from ABFSL on 27.2.1992 through HPD, 
who, according to CMF, had acted as a broker/authorised agent of ABFSL in 
the transaction and that the payment of the price of the suit bonds to ABFSL 
was made by netting of the amounts of three other transactions between 
CMF and ABFSL made on the same day (i.e. 27.2.1992). On 27.2.1993 NPCL contested the petition by denying the so called 
transaction alleged by CMF and stating that the matter was sub judice since 
a suit was already filed in the Bombay High Court with regard to the alleged 
suit bonds. ABFSL also filed a reply to the petition denying that it had sold 
the suit bonds to CMF and affirming their sale to SCB on 26.2.1992. SCB in 
its reply to the petition pointed out that it had purchased the suit bonds from 
ABFSL after paying consideration and that ABFSL had also confirmed that 
there had been no sale or delivery of the suit bonds to CMF. SCB alleged 
that HPD had wrongly and fraudulently diverted the suit bonds to CMF. On 
16.3.1993 the CLB made an order directing all the parties to disclose the role 
of HPD in the transaction. On 6.3.1995 the petition by CMF before the CLB was transferred to 
the Special Court and re-numbered as Misc. Petition No. 81/95.	HPD had 
filed no affidavit in reply to the petition when the matter was before the 
CLB. On 14.6.1996, after the transfer of the petition to the Special Court, 
HPD filed an affidavit in reply in Misc. Petition No. 81/95 stipulating that 
the contents thereof and the documents referred to could not and ought not to 
be referred to and relied upon or used against HPD in any proceedings as he 
could not be compelled to be a witness against himself in any court of law, 
whether civil or criminal. According to HPD's version, SCB had 'lent' the 
suit bonds and the 17% NPCL bonds to him on 27.2.1992; that he had 
agreed to return the same with interest; that on 9.5.1992 he had purchased 
the suit bonds from SCB and adjusted the price payable by him to SCB 
against a sale by him of Cantriple Units and further that, he had sold and 
delivered the suit bonds to CMF on 27.2.1992. On 25.6.1996, SCB replied to HPD's affidavit and denied that it had 
any transaction with HPD in respect of the suit bonds on 27.2.1992 and 
denied that the suit bonds were sold by SCB to HPD on 9.5.1992, or that it 
had purchased Cantriple Units from HPD. SCB also pointed out several 
inconsistencies and contradictions in the stand taken by HPD in his affidavit. On 27.11.1996, the Special Court dismissed Misc. Petition No. 81/95 
by holding that CMF had admitted through its counsel that it was not in a 
position to show that it had paid any consideration for the suit bonds to 
ABFSL, and, as no consideration was paid by CMF either to ABFSL or to 
SCB, CMF could claim no title to the suit bonds, even assuming that HPD 
had acted as a mercantile agent and appeared to have obtained possession of 
the LOA through/from SCB. In view of this, the Special Court concluded 
that CMF could claim no right, title and interest in the suit bonds. However, 
in view of the fact that SCB had already filed Suit No. 11/96, it was held that 
SCB's title to the suit bonds could be decided in that suit. On 23.12.1996, CMF preferred an appeal to this Court but failed to 
obtain any interim relief except a direction from this Court that the Officer 
on Special Duty, who was in possession of the suit bonds, would not part 
with the suit bonds without notice to CMF and that the decision in Suit No. 
11/96 would be subject to the decision in the appeal. On 10.1.1997, HPD took out Chamber Summons 1/97 in Suit No. 
11/96 for being joined as a party. The said Chamber Summons was opposed 
by SCB and by an order dated 20.3.1997, the Chamber Summons was 
dismissed by the Special Court taking the view that HPD was at liberty to 
adopt appropriate substantive proceedings regarding his alleged claim of 
having purchased the suit bonds from SCB on 9.5.1992. On 30.9.1997, SCB applied for withdrawal of the Suit against CMF. 
This application was allowed. However, the Special Court took the view that 
CMF was a necessary party to the Suit in spite of its earlier order holding 
that CMF could claim no right, title or interest in the suit bonds and by an 
order made on 30.9.1997/ 1.10.1997 the Suit was dismissed on the ground of 
non-joinder of CMF which was a necessary party. SCB appealed therefrom 
to this Court. Thus, both SCB and CMF, came in appeal to this Court against the 
orders made by the Special Court in Misc. Petition No. 81/95 as also of 
dismissal of Suit No. 11/96. By the judgment and order dated 21.4.1998 
made in Civil Appeal No. 7 of 1997 etc., this Court allowed both the appeals 
filed by SCB and CMF and remitted the matter to the Special Court for 
being tried de novo. Accordingly, both, the Suit and the Misc. Petition came 
to be tried again by the Special Court. By the judgment dated 17.1.2002, 
Special Court Suit No. 11/96 was dismissed and Misc. Petition No. 81/95 
was allowed. Being aggrieved, SCB is in appeal against both the judgments. 
Since the impugned judgments arise out of interconnected facts, it would be 
convenient to dispose of both the appeals by a common judgment. Since the judgment in Misc. Petition No. 81/95 merely follows the 
judgment in Special Court Suit No. 11/96, it would be sufficient to deal with 
the judgment in Special Court Suit No. 11/96, calling it the 'impugned 
judgment' hereinafter. Issues: In the affirmative i.e. in favour of 
CMF and against SCB 2.Whether the plaintiffs were 
entitled to and continue to be 
entitled to the suit bonds as 
alleged in para 8 of the Plaint ? In the negative i.e. in favour of CMF 
and against SCB

2A. Whether the Plaintiffs prove 
the circumstances in which 
Original BR was taken away 
from them as alleged in para (8) 
of the Plaint ? In the negative i.e. against SCB and 
in favour of CMF. 3. Whether the alleged 
transaction dated 26/2/92 was a 
transaction of Hiten P. Dalal as 
alleged in para 1(d) and 8 of the 
Written Statement ? In the affirmative i.e. in favour of 
CMF and against SCB 4. Whether the alleged 
transaction dated 26/2/1992 was 
under an arrangement with the 
Plaintiffs as alleged in paras 1(d) 
,7, 8 and 9 of the Written 
Statement ? In the affirmative i.e. in favour of 
CMF and against SCB. 5. Whether the Plaintiffs are 
estopped from making any claim 
as alleged in para 1 read with 
para 22 and 29 of the Written 
Statement? In the affirmative i.e. in favour of 
CMF and against SCB. 6. Whether on 9th May 1992 the 
Plaintiffs purchased Cantriple 
Units of the face value of 
Rs.45.50 crores for Rs.266.18 
crores (approx.) and against 
which the Plaintiffs sold and 
adjusted various securities 
including the suit bonds of the 
face value of Rs. 50 crores and 
whether the Plaintiffs have 
applied for and got the said 
Cantriple units of face value of 
Rs.45.50 crores transferred in 
their name in January, 1993 
disclosing a sale consideration of 
about Rs.266.18 crores as stated 
in para 14 and 15 of the Written 
Statement ? This issue is divisible in to three 
parts (i) CMF has proved that SCB 
has purchased cantriple units of the 
face value of Rs. 45.50 crores on 
9/5/1992. To that extent, issue is 
answered in the affirmative (ii) However, CMF has not proved 
that the said purchase was against 
sale of the suit bonds on 9/5/1992. To that extent the sub-issue is 
answered in the negative, (iii) CMF has proved that in 
January, 1993 SCB applied for and 
have got the said cantriple units of 
the face value of Rs. 45.50 crores 
transferred in their name. Therefore, to that extent, the sub- issue is answered in the affirmative. 7. Whether the Defendant No.2 
purchased the bonds and received 
delivery thereof along with 
Transfer Deed as alleged in para 
22 and 29 of the Written 
Statement ? In the affirmative i.e. in favour of 
CMF and against SCB. 8. Whether the plaintiffs 
deliberately by their act and or 
omission or negligence put 
Defendant No.1 or Hitel P. Dalal 
in a position to deal with the 
LOA and the Transfer Deed as 
they liked as alleged in para 21 
and 29 of the Written Statement ? In the affirmative i.e. in favour of 
CMF and against SCB. 9.Whether Hiten P. Dalal was 
authorised to deal with and/or 
deemed to be authorised to deal 
with the Bonds as alleged in 
paras 22 and 29 of the Written 
Statement ? In the affirmative i.e. in favour of 
CMF and against SCB. 10. Whether the Plaintiff is 
entitled to any reliefs and if so 
what

As per final Order. ISSUES BETWEEN PLAINTIFF (SCB) AND DEFENDANT NO. 3 
(NPCL)

 ISSUES

 ANSWERS 1. Whether this Court has 
jurisdiction to entertain and try this 
Suit ? In the affirmative. 2. Whether the Plaintiffs are entitled 
to and/or are the owners of the said 
securities without having received 
the original Letter of Allotment ? 3. Whether these Defendants are 
entitled to a lien on the said Bonds 
for securing the repayment of the 
deposit placed by them with the 1st 
Defnednats (sic) ? Answer for Issue No. 2 and 3. Issues between SCB & NPCL were 
framed on 2/7/1997 i.e. after 
Judgment and Order of Variava, J. (as he then was) dismissing Misc. Petition No. 81 of 1995 on 
27/11/1996 (which judgment has 
been subsequently overruled by the 
Apex Court). As stated above, at one 
point of time, there were disputes 
between plaintiff and NPCL 
which disputes do not survive in 
view of the subsequent stand taken 
by SCB before this Court. Therefore 
issues nos. 2 and 3 do not arise for 
determination. 4. Whether the Plaintiffs prove that 
these Defendants are bound to 
register any Bonds in the name of the 
Plaintiffs or to issue the said Bonds 
and relevant interest warrants to the 
Plaintiffs ? In the negative. 5. What Order ? As per final Order. The issues framed in Misc. Petition No. 81/95 with the answers are as 
follows: In the affirmative as 
answered in the Judgment 
in suit No. 11 of 1996 i.e. in 
favour of the Petitioners 
and against SCB. are entitled to object to 
registering transfer of 9% 
NPCL Bonds in favour of the 
Petitioners ? In the negative i.e. against 
SCB and in favour of the 
Petitioners. 3. Whether the Petitioners are 
entitled to have the suit LOA 
(for 9% NPCL Bonds f.v. 50 
Crs.) transferred to their name ? In the affirmative i.e. in 
favour of the Petitioners 
and against SCB. 4. Whether there was 
collusion between Respondents 
Nos. 2, 3 and/or 4 as alleged by 
the Petitioners in the affidavit 
of M. Nayak dated April 10, 
1993 ? Does not arise. 5. What Orders on the 
Petition? As per final order. The core issue in both proceedings pertains to 9% NPCL Tax Free 
bonds and whether SCB or CMF is the owner of such bonds and entitled to 
be registered as such. The Special Court held that SCB had proved that it had purchased the 
suit bonds from ABFSL against payment of Rs. 42,52,50,000, but it 
dismissed SCB's suit and allowed CMF's petition for the following reasons: Whether these findings are justified on facts and in law has been 
argued before us by learned senior counsel appearing for the parties with 
great perseverance, ingenuity and erudition. I. Nature of the Suit and the Proceedings in the Misc. Petition: The substantive prayers are for a declaration that the plaintiffs "are 
fully entitled" to the suit bonds and certain reliefs which are founded upon 
this declaration. A suit for such a declaration would certainly be a title suit 
so far as the suit bonds are concerned. Further, even Grounds A28 and A30 of the present Civil Appeal No. 
2275/02 by SCB read: Thus, it is clear that the appeal has been brought on the footing that 
SCB had fully proved its title to the suit bonds and that the Special Court 
had erroneously held against SCB. Looked at from any point of view, we 
are not satisfied that the Suit was a mere declaratory suit, it must be regarded 
as a title suit. We shall now turn to the nature of the proceedings in Misc. Petition 
No. 81/95. This petition was presented under Section 111 of the Companies 
Act, 1956. Section 111(1) provides for the power of refusal by a company to 
register the transfer of debentures to a transferee. The transferor or the 
transferee has a right of appeal to the Tribunal (then, the CLB) under sub-
section (2) of Section 111 . The nature of proceedings under Section 111 are 
slightly different from a title suit, although, sub-section (7) of Section 111 gives to the Tribunal the jurisdiction to decide any question relating to the 
title of any person who is a party to the application, to have his name entered 
in or omitted from the register and also the general jurisdiction to decide any 
question which it is necessary or expedient to decide in connection with such 
an application. It has been held in M/s Ammonia Supplies Corporation (P) 
Ltd. v. M/s Modern Plastic Containers Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. that the 
jurisdiction exercised by the Company Court under Section 155 of the 
Companies Act, 1956 (corresponding to Section 111 of the present Act, 
before its amendment by Act 31 of 1988) was somewhat summary in nature 
and that if a seriously disputed question of title arose, the Company Court 
should relegate the parties to a suit, which was the more appropriate remedy 
for investigation and adjudication of such seriously disputed question of 
title. Mr. Kapadia, learned counsel for CMF, contended that as far as the 
petition of CMF was concerned, it merely invoked the summary remedy 
under Section 111 of the Companies Act. The only prayer made by CMF 
before the CLB was that it had purchased the suit bonds from ABFSL and, 
therefore, it was entitled to be registered as the owner of the suit bonds in the 
register of NPCL.	Relying on Mannalal Khetan v. Kedar Nath Khetan 
and Ors. he contended that the provisions of Section 108 of the Companies 
Act, 1956 were mandatory and unless they were fulfilled, a registration of 
the transfer of the bonds could not be done. Further, he relied on the 
exemption granted from certain provisions of Section 108(1) in respect of 
bonds issued by a Government company. He placed reliance on Notification 
G.S.R. 1294 (E) dated 17.12.1986 issued by the Central Government in 
exercise of its powers under Section 620(1)(a) of the Companies Act, 1956. 
The said Notification reads as under: It is the contention of Mr. Kapadia that the provisions of Section 
108(1) of the Companies Act, 1956 are conditionally excluded by reason of 
this Notification as the suit bonds were issued by NPCL, which is admittedly 
a Government company. Thus, according to him, the suit bonds would be 
transferable by endorsement and delivery as long as the transferee gave 
intimation as contemplated under the Notification. According to him, the 
terms of Section 108(1) as amended by the aforesaid Notification had been 
fulfilled, and, therefore, there was an obligation on the part of NPCL to 
register CMF as the registered holder of the suit bonds. Emphasising that 
the intention of the legislature is to enable transferability of bonds issued by 
Government companies with greater facility and lesser formality, he referred 
to provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and the Transfer of Property Act, 
1882 (hereinafter referred to as the " TP Act "). Section 2(12) of the 
Companies Act, 1956 defines 'debenture' as including debenture stock 
bonds and any other securities of a company, whether constituting a charge 
on the assets of the company or not. Chapter VIII of the TP Act deals with 
transfers of actionable claims. Section 137 of the TP Act, however, provides 
that the provisions in Chapter VIII ( Sections 130 to 136 ) would not apply to 
stocks, shares or debentures. The argument is that the mode of transfer of 
actionable claims specified in the TP Act ( Sections 130 to 136 ) has been 
specifically done away with. Even the mode of transfer under Section 108 of 
the Companies Act has been considerably relaxed insofar as bonds issued by 
Government companies are concerned. So far as the nature of the 
proceedings in the Misc. Petition are concerned, it is the submission of Mr. 
Kapadia that the only issue to be considered is whether CMF is a transferee 
of the bonds, and whether CMF has complied with Section 108 read with the 
Notification G.S.R. 1294(E) dated 17.12.1986 so as to be eligible for 
registration as the holder of the bonds. Even if the petition filed under Section 111 of the Companies Act, 
1956 was only for this limited relief of registering the petitioner-CMF as the 
holder of the suit bonds, we cannot accept the contention of Mr. Kapadia for 
two reasons. In the first place, whatever might have been the limited 
jurisdiction of the CLB under Section 111 of the Companies Act, 1956, 
while entertaining the petition, the fact that the said petition was transferred 
to the Special Court by an order of this Court needs to be reckoned with. The 
order of this Court is specific and requires the trial of Special Court Suit No. 
11/96 along with Misc. Petition No. 81/95. The limitation of the jurisdiction 
of the CLB, if any, does not apply to the Special Court, which is clothed 
with all the jurisdiction of a civil court. Secondly, merely by filing a petition 
under Section 111 of the Companies Act, 1956 and by placing reliance on Section 108 of the Companies Act, 1956 the petitioner-CMF cannot succeed. 
It would have to go further and prove that it is validly a transferee of the suit 
bonds, if that question is put in issue. Thus, in our view, each of the two 
contesting parties, i.e. SCB and CMF, would have to prove their rights and 
show how they are entitled to the suit bonds before any relief could be 
granted either in the Suit or in the Misc. Petition. II. Nature and Effect of 15% Arrangement: A. Public Policy and Res Judiciata: These were expressly approved by this Court in the judgment. It 
appears to us that much of the controversy about the nature of the 15% 
arrangement could have been avoided if the judgment in the Canara Bank case (supra) had been kept in mind. We notice from the impugned judgment 
that the decision of this Court in Canara Bank (supra) was specifically 
brought to the notice of the Special Court, but it appears to have been 
brushed aside on the grounds, first, that the doctrine of res judicata would 
not apply as Section 13 of the Act had an overriding effect; second, the exact 
scope of the 15% arrangement was not determined by evidence in the 
previous suit; and third, that an arrangement by which banks and public 
financial institutions are enabled to earn a return higher than what is 
stipulated by the government/RBI, would cause inflation and the 
government would not be able to control its deficit, hence it was opposed to 
public policy. The Special Court said: "In the economic sense, they are not 
legitimate. On this point also, therefore, there is no merit in the arguments 
advanced on behalf of SCB." We are afraid that the Special Court was wrong on all the counts. On 
the question of res judicata, the Special Court failed to notice that the 
doctrine of res judicata is not merely a matter of procedure but a doctrine 
evolved by the courts in larger public interest. What is enacted in Section 11 of the Civil Procedure Code (" CPC ") is not the fountain-head of the 
doctrine, but merely the statutory recognition of the doctrine, which rests on 
public policy. (See in this connection Daryao and Ors. v. The State of 
U.P. and Ors. , Guda Vijayalakshmi v. Guda Ramachandra Sekhara 
Sastry and Hope Plantations Ltd. v. Taluk Land Board, Peermade 
and Anr. ) In the previous suit to which both SCB and Canara Bank were 
parties, the same issue with regard to '15% arrangement' with HPD was 
urged by CMF as a non-suiting factor, but was negatived both by the Special 
Court and by this Court. Issue No. 10 in the previous suit was the relevant 
issue dealing with 15% arrangement, which was as follows: This was an issue raised by CMF which was defendant no. 1 in that 
suit (Special Court Suit No. 13/94). The burden of proving this issue was on 
the defendant and the Special Court answered the issue in the negative and 
observed that the counsel for defendant no. 1 had admitted that there was no 
evidence to support this issue. Consequently, the Special Court held that the 
issue was answered in the negative i.e. against defendant no. 1. Since the 
Special Court findings were finally upheld by this Court in the judgment 
reported in Canara Bank (supra) and a review petition thereagainst was 
also dismissed, we are of the view that it is not open for this Court to again 
raise the issue and take a view contrary to what had already been decided in 
the previous suit, particularly in view of the fact that there has been no new 
revelatory evidence on this issue. We are not in agreement with the view taken by the Special Court that Section 13 of the Act overrides the doctrine of res judicata. Section 13 of the 
Act provides: "The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding 
anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being 
in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law, other than 
this Act, or in any decree or order of any Court, tribunal or other authority". 
This was certainly not intended to abrogate all the established principles of 
law, unless they were directly in conflict with the express provisions of the 
Act itself. There is nothing in the Act which is inconsistent with the doctrine 
of res judicata, per se, as seems to have been assumed by the Special Court. We are also unable to appreciate the thinking of the Special Court that 
there was something morally or economically reprehensible in the 
arrangement which was brought about between HPD and SCB as a result of 
which SCB was able to earn higher return. B. Evidence on Record: There is nothing in all the said evidence to suggest that by entering into such 
a contractual transaction with HPD, HPD became the owner of the bonds. 
The evidence, on the other hand, clearly brings out that at all times the 
securities transactions would be between SCB and the counter-party-banks, 
the legal relationship always being between the said two parties. In our view, 
therefore, the Special Court grossly erred in drawing a conclusion based on 
no evidence and attributing to the said arrangement a legal character, which 
was not proved on record. It also erred in ignoring the finding on the issue 
given in the previous Special Court Suit No. 13/94 as upheld by the 
judgment of this Court in Canara Bank (supra). The Special Court has also 
observed that under the 15% arrangement SCB was "maintaining broker's 
position". While this may be appropriate jargon in a stock exchange, what 
exactly is the legal implication, if any, of such an expression is unclear. We 
find no evidence on record to suggest that merely because of the 15% 
arrangement the legal ownership of the securities was transferred to HPD in 
any manner, since all the transactions appear to be between SCB and 
counter-party-banks. This would be evident from the fact that if the counter-
party-banks failed to deliver the securities or failed to pay for the securities 
delivered, the legal action could only be between SCB and the counter-
party-banks with which the transaction took place and not by or against 
HPD. We are unable to accept the conclusions drawn by the Special Court 
with regard to some of the documents produced by CMF as defendant, about 
which no evidence by way of explanation was led by either party. In the absence of proper explanation, it was not open to the Special 
Court to make inferences or assumptions with regard to terms used in the 
documents, for example, SCB's securities ledger in relation to the suit bonds 
(Exhibit-11), which pertains to the sale and purchase of the suit bonds with 
different counter-parties. This document as such does not contain the 
description 'portfolio', but the said appellation has been given to it by the 
Special Court on its own. The Special Court has observed thereupon: The whole thrust of the impugned judgment is that the transactions 
between SCB and the counter-party-banks, which were covered by the 15% 
arrangement were sham transactions, making HPD the owner of the suit 
bonds. Where a transaction results in rights and obligations, it can never be 
treated as a sham transaction. (See in this connection Chow Yoong Hong v. 
Choong Fah Rubber Manufactory .) It was nobody's case that in any of 
the transactions under the 15% arrangement, HPD could have been sued for 
enforcement of any right arising therefrom between SCB and ABFSL. C. Estoppel: He was entitled to take a position on suit bonds. He took that position 
through SCB. Therefore, SCB had taken his position under Exhibit-11. 
Under the above arrangement, SCB could claim return of the security or 
equivalent money value only from HPD as the transactions in Exhibit-11 are 
under 15% Arrangement. Therefore, SCB cannot claim any relief against 
CMF. They can only claim relief against HPD. SCB is estopped from 
claiming any relief against CMF. SCB, therefore, has no right to object to 
the transfer of bonds by NPCL in favour of CMF." Learned counsel for SCB however criticised the impugned judgment 
of the Special Court on the ground that this finding, though not made 
specifically, but diffusedly over the impugned judgment arises from a 
misapprehension as to the exact nature of the doctrine of estoppel. Learned 
counsel contended that estoppel would require a representation by SCB, by 
acting upon which CMF should have altered its position to its prejudice. 
Since the burden of proving the issue was on CMF, CMF had to show what 
the representation was, to whom it was made, how CMF had altered its 
position as a result of such representation and what prejudice it had suffered. 
It was contended that no evidence was led by CMF on any of these aspects 
and, therefore, the Special Court had no material whatsoever before it to 
make any finding on the issue of estoppel other than pure conjecture and 
speculation based upon its understanding of the 15% arrangement. Further, 
learned counsel contended that if HPD had obtained the suit bonds by theft 
or by committing any other offence, then there would be no question of 
estoppel of SCB from denying the title of HPD or of any one else who 
claimed to have obtained title to the suit bonds from HPD. In Mercantile 
Bank of India Ltd. v. Central Bank of India Ltd. , it was observed: It was thus held that a plea of estoppel could not be availed of if there 
was no duty owed by the person sought to be estopped, nor any 
representation made by such person. In New Marine Coal Co. (Bengal) 
Pvt. Ltd. v. The Union of India , this Court had occasion to examine the 
doctrine of estoppel and cited with approval the following observations in 
Halsbury's Law of England : "before any one can be estopped by a 
representation inferred from negligent conduct, there must be a duty to use 
due care towards the party misled, or towards the general public of which he 
is one", that, it was required that "the negligence on which it is based should 
not be indirectly or remotely connected with the misleading effect assigned 
to it, but must be the proximate or real cause of that result ." The judgment 
of the Privy Council (supra) was approvingly cited by this Court, which also 
observed, "before invoking a plea of estoppel on the ground of 
negligence, some duty must be shown to exist between the parties and 
negligence must be proved in relation to such duty."
	Mr. Jethmalani, therefore, is justified in his submission that there was 
no such duty owed by SCB to CMF. At any rate, none was shown to have 
existed. Hence, there is no substance in the plea of estoppel raised by CMF. D. The Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 : The force of the words "belonging to any person notified" used in 
sub-section (3) of Section 3 of the Act are wide enough to result in 
attachment of the property which belongs to the notified person irrespective 
of in whose name the property stands. The provisions of Section 13 of the 
Act give an overriding effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent 
therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force. Even 
assuming that the argument of Mr. Jethmalani based on Section 4(2) of The 
Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 is a plausible one, we are of 
the view that the combined effect of Sections 3(3) and 13 of the Act would 
give an overriding effect to the provisions of the Act. It is rightly urged by 
Mr. Kapadia, learned counsel for CMF, that, if that were not so, then the 
whole purpose of the Act would be defeated since the objective of the Act 
was to reach out and attach the property in whichever hands it was, 
irrespective of in whose names the property stood, as long it was property 
belonging to a notified person. Thus, the contention based on Section 4(2) of 
the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 has been rightly rejected by 
the Special Court. Much was said by the learned counsel for CMF about the manner in 
which SCB has hedged its replies. The learned counsel criticised the attempt 
of SCB to hide the true facts and contended that SCB kept on changing its 
stand from time to time. He highlighted that the stand taken by SCB in the 
Suit, the stand taken by it in the reply to the Petition and the stand taken by it 
before this Court was wholly inconsistent and, therefore, urged that the 
claims of SCB should fail. We think that this is a classic case of the pot 
calling the kettle black. When we look at the defence taken by CMF, the 
same criticism can be validly levied against it. CMF started by saying that it 
had bought the suit bonds from ABFSL. When it found that the evidence 
was against it, it shifted its stand and said it had bought them from HPD with 
HPD acting on behalf of ABFSL or SCB as the broker, or on his own behalf. 
We do not think that on the question of bona fides and consistency, there is 
anything to choose between SCB and CMF. Since both parties are tarred by 
the same brush, the issue will have to be resolved purely on the basis of what 
the legal evidence demonstrates. III. Did SCB get any title to the suit bonds: We respectfully concur with the said observations and reject the 
contention of Mr. Kapadia that SCB could not be permitted to rely on its 
changed stand. There is one minor issue with regard to the date of the letter written by 
ABFSL, namely, whether it was 26.2.1992 or 27.2.1992. The evidence of 
Kalyana Raman makes it clear that mentioning the date of the letter as 
26.2.1992 was a mistake and that the actual date of the letter was 27.2.1992. IV. Did SCB lose title to the suit bonds at any time before the suit
 was filed? A large portion of the impugned judgment is devoted to an analysis of 
the Securities Ledger (Exhibit-11) and raising inferences thereupon. There is 
no doubt that Exhibit-11 is a securities ledger maintained by SCB in respect 
of the suit bonds. Ex facie, the Securities Ledger shows the date on which 
the transaction took place, the counterparty to the transaction, whether the 
transaction was a sale or purchase, face value of the transaction, rate of the 
transaction, book value, interest paid/received, profit/loss of the transaction 
and the balance. The document as such does not give rise to an inference that 
in any of the transactions HPD had become the owner of the suit bonds. The 
Special Court, on account of a misreading of the evidence pertaining to the 
15% arrangement, drew a conclusion from this Exhibit-11 that HPD became 
the owner of the suit bonds right from 26.2.1992 and thereafter all the 
transactions were those of HPD, the losses or gains being credited to the 
account of HPD. We have already seen the evidence on record as to the 15% 
arrangement. No part of that evidence can legitimately give rise to the 
inference that in respect of securities transacted under the said arrangement, 
any person other than SCB or the counterparty become the owner of these 
securities. We have already seen that the suit bonds were purchased by SCB 
legitimately on 26.2.1992 by payment of consideration to ABFSL, which 
fact is even accepted by the Special Court. However, on analysis of certain 
documents on record, the Special Court has come to the conclusion that on 
9.5.1992 the suit bonds were sold by SCB to HPD. The transaction dated 
9.5.1992 thus becomes crucial and has to be scrutinised to see if this 
inference is correct. The Special Court laid great emphasis on Exhibit-7 (details of SCB's 
securities transactions during April 1991  May 1992), which purportedly 
shows that on 9.5.1992 the suit bonds were sold to Andhra Bank (hereinafter 
referred to as "AB"). There is also SCB's deal slip no. 10729 showing that 
there was a sale of the suit bonds of the face value of Rs. 50 crores @ Rs. 
91.00 to AB. According to SCB, entries in the deal slips from nos. 10727 to 
10735 were sham entries made in order to account for a large amount of 
money which HPD admitted to be owed to SCB and paid up by transferring 
Cantriple Units worth about Rs. 205 crores. SCB's explanation is that it had 
to show in its books, the receipt of this Rs. 205 crores and, therefore, a 
number of sham entries were recorded in deal slip Nos. 10727 to 10735 and 
were also indicated in Exhibit-7, AB being shown throughout as the 
counterparty and all such transactions being shown as 'direct'. The learned 
counsel for SCB contended that these were sham entries in order to take into 
the books of SCB the large amount of Rs. 205 crores.
	According to the FIR which is exhibited by CMF on record, by about 
30.4.1992, the officers of SCB discovered that there had been a series of 
transactions in securities conducted through HPD, as a result of which, 
securities to the tune of about Rs. 300 crores remained unaccounted for, as 
neither securities nor BRs pertaining to them had been received by SCB. 
One Ravi Iyer, Director, Local Currency Group of SCB made some 
preliminary inquiry and confronted HPD about this fact.	HPD admitted on 
10.5.1992 to Ravi Iyer that in respect of payments made by SCB for 
purchase of securities, there was a very substantial shortfall of securities, as 
the securities or BRs pertaining to them had not been handed over to SCB by 
HPD. HPD promised that he would hand over BRs/securities for the 
shortfall already identified and on 11.5.1992 he delivered a letter promising 
to deliver further securities to fill the gap that had been noticed. SCB had 
relied on the chargesheet and recital in the chargesheet as an admission on 
the part of CMF, since the charge sheet was produced as CMF's evidence. 
Further, there is evidence of M.Q. Askari (PW-3), an officer of AB in terms 
denying that there was any sale or purchase transaction between SCB and 
AB during the period 1.5.1992 to 10.5.1992. In fact, Askari produced the 
purchase register of AB in which there was no entry showing purchase of the 
suit bonds by AB from SCB on 9.5.1992. Mr. Jethmalani contended rightly 
that the evidence of Askari had remained totally unchallenged, particularly 
with reference to the absence of any purchase of the suit bonds by AB. Mr. 
Jethmalani criticised the impugned judgment of the Special Court as having 
singularly failed to consider any part of this crucial evidence of the officer of 
AB. We think that this criticism is justified. While the Special Court's 
inferences are based upon its understanding of what the 15% arrangement 
was and its analysis of Exhibit-11, it totally fails to give any reason as to 
why the evidence of a witness from AB about there being no such 
transaction on 9.5.1992, backed by the purchase register of AB, should be 
rejected. In our view, in the face of the positive evidence of AB that no such 
transactions were there, there was no justification for not accepting the stand 
of SCB that entry dated 9.5.1992 pertaining to the suit bonds was a sham 
entry intended to introduce the money into the books of SCB to cover a wide 
gap. The Janakiraman Committee Report is also clinching on this issue of 
the so called sale of the suit bonds on 9.5.1992 to ABFSL. Both sides have 
relied on the Janakiraman Committee Report, which is admitted in evidence 
as Exhibit-18. In the Fourth Interim Report dated March 1993, in Paragraph 
3.1(h) there is a discussion of this entry in the Report. The Janakiraman 
Report says: 58.50 per unit from Andhra Bank for an aggregate cost of 
Rs. 266.18 crores. There is no record of this transaction 
in the books of Andhra Bank nor are there any cost 
memos available and no securities were received from 
Andhra Bank. On the same day, Stanchart as per deal 
slips sold PSU bonds aggregating Rs. 266.12 crores to 
Andhra Bank. (Refer paragraph 3.4 below). There is no 
record of these transactions in the books of Andhra Bank 
and no securities were delivered. A pay order No. 257131 
for the difference of Rs. 0.06 crore was prepared but not 
delivered to Andhra Bank. These transactions appear to 
have been put through merely to cover up a gap in 
respect of various earlier purchase deals for which 
neither securities nor BRs. were available. The details of 
these earlier transactions are explained in paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 below." Admittedly, the Janakiraman Committee was a committee of experts 
appointed by the RBI to investigate the securities scam. There is also no 
dispute that the Janakiraman Committee had full authority backed by the 
RBI order and did investigate by meticulously going into the account books 
of all the banks concerned, including AB. This report also supports the stand 
of SCB that the entries pertaining to the sale of the suit bonds on 9.5.1992 
were sham entries and that there was really no transaction of sale of the suit 
bonds to AB on the said date. In the face of this evidence, it was not open to 
the Special Court to reject the story of bogus entries by merely indulging in 
speculative analysis of the entries in Exhibits 7 and 11 against the 
background of what it understood to be the 15% arrangement. One more 
fact, which the Special Court considered as proving the genuineness of the 
entries pertaining to 9.5.1992, is about the purchase of Cantriple Units 
deposed to in the evidence of Waseem Akhtar Saifi (Exhibit-14) in the 
previous Suit No. 17/94. Mr. Jethmalani criticised this finding as wholly 
erroneous. In the first place, according to him, Saifi was examined in the 
previous proceedings in Suit No. 17/94 only for the purpose of showing that 
a letter dated 11.5.1992 written by HPD to SCB was not under coercion as 
alleged in that suit. What was placed on record in the present suit by CMF 
was only the cross-examination from pages 45-53 after SCB had waived 
formal proof and accepted that Saifi did make such a statement. Mr. 
Jethmalani submitted that not only was the said evidence irrelevant, but also 
had been misread by the Special Court to arrive at an erroneous conclusion. 
Such evidence could be admissible only to show what fact was sought to be 
proved in the previous Suit No. 17/94 and secondly, such evidence is wholly 
hearsay with regard to the transaction of Cantriple Units on 9.5.1992. He 
also criticised the finding of the Special Court as self-contradictory on this 
issue. The Special Court has laid emphasis on the failure of SCB to explain 
by cogent evidence how HPD got possession of the original LOA and 
transfer deed. In our view, this is an irrelevant issue, although according to 
the charge sheet, HPD had obtained possession of the original LOA and the 
signed transfer deed by misappropriation in conspiracy with some officers of 
SCB. Mr. Jethmalani also relied on the affidavit filed by HPD before the 
CLB in which he had stated that he had borrowed the suit bonds from SCB. 
In our view, that affidavit has no meaning as the deponent refused to submit 
himself to cross-examination and the evidence given in the affidavit was not 
tested by cross-examination. We need not delve further into the issue as we 
have already stated that the issue is immaterial.
	It is the stand of CMF that SCB lost its title to the suit bonds as a 
result of sale of the suit bonds on 9.5.1992 as consideration for its purchase 
of Cantriple Units worth Rs. 205 crores. While answering issue no. 6, the 
Special Court has clearly held that purchase of the Cantriple Units on 
9.5.1992 had been proved but CMF had not been able to prove that the said 
purchase was against sale of the suit bonds on 9.5.1992. In the face of this 
finding, the argument of CMF that SCB lost title because it had sold the suit 
bonds in lieu of which it purchased Cantriple Units, has been rejected by the 
Special Court itself. For these reasons, we are clearly of the view that whatever might have 
been the conjectures on the part of the Special Court, whatever might have 
been the suspicion generated on account of sham entries made by one or the 
other party, when it came to the crux of the issue, the Special Court has 
correctly answered it and negatived the case of CMF that SCB lost title of 
the suit bonds because the suit bonds were sold in consideration of purchase 
of Cantriple Units. V. Did CMF get title to the Suit Bonds ? Finally, the question that needs to be considered is whether CMF as 
defendant acquired title to the suit bonds. It is urged on behalf of CMF on this issue that CMF is in possession 
of the suit bonds, and by reason of Section 110 of the Indian Evidence Act, 
1872, the presumption is that the possessor of the property is the owner 
unless SCB dislodges this presumption by showing a superior title. It is 
contended that only a person with a better title than the party in possession 
could succeed. Mr. Kapadia relied on the rule as to burden of proof as to 
ownership under Section 110 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 and 
contended that as far as the rule enunciated in Section 110 is concerned, it 
makes no exception with respect to incorporeal property like debts or bonds. 
In his submission, while a debt may be a chose in action, the evidence of the 
debt may be by way of tangible property, namely, the paper evidencing it 
and, therefore, that paper would itself be a chattel to which the rule of 
burden of proof in Section 110 would apply, even on the assumption that the 
suit bonds were choses in action. He relied on passages in Halsbury's Laws 
of England and the discussion thereunder to show that debentures of 
companies were also choses in action. Relying on the same authority, he 
also urged that the strictness of the common law rule against the assignment 
of choses or things in action had been relaxed by various statutes. He, 
therefore, contended that as far as transfer of the suit bonds was concerned, 
it was governed by the practice in the market, read with the provisions of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 1956 in the light of the Notification 
issued by the Central Government under Section 620 of the Companies Act, 
1956, governing the transfer of the suit bonds. In the submission of Mr. 
Kapadia, debentures strictly fall within the description of 'chattel personal', 
and by the applicable statute, namely, the Companies Act, 1956 they have 
been made capable of being dealt with as chattel. He relied on another 
passage in Halsbury's Law of England in support thereto. Relying on Jagdish Narain v. Nawab Said Ahmed Khan he further contended that 
since the Suit is one on title, the plaintiffs could succeed only on the strength 
of their own title; the defendants were not obliged to plead any possible 
defects in the title and they were entitled to avail themselves of any defect 
that such title showed subsequently. To similar effect were cited the 
decisions of this Court in Moran Mar Basselios Catholicos and Anr. v. 
Most Rev. Mar Poulose Athanasius and Ors. , Brahma Nand Puri v. 
Mathra Puri and Anr. and L.J. Leach and Co. Ltd. and Anr. v. 
Messrs. Jardine Skinner and Co. Strong reliance was also placed on the 
observations of this Court in Chuharmal Takarmal Mohnani v. 
Commissioner of Income Tax in relation to Section 110 of the Indian 
Evidence Act, 1872. Rebutting these arguments, Mr. Jethmalani contends that Section 110 is contained in Chapter VII of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 , which deals 
with the burden of proof. As a matter of fact, Section 110 merely enunciates 
the burden of proof as to ownership. He rightly submits that any rule of 
burden of proof is irrelevant when the parties have actually led evidence and 
that evidence has to be considered. Reliance is placed by him on Sita Ram 
Bhau Patil v. Ramchandra Nago Patil and Anr. for the proposition that 
when the entire evidence is before the court, the burden of proof becomes 
immaterial. Even assuming that the rule of burden of proof in Section 110 is 
relevant, Mr. Jethmalani contended that Section 110 would be applicable 
only to a 'thing', which is capable of being possessed. He rightly submits 
that a chose in action is not a 'thing', as, by definition, it is not in the 
possession of someone, but that possession has to be acquired by some 
action which is why it is called a chose in action. He rightly distinguished 
the judgment of this Court in Chuharmal Takarmal (supra) as wholly 
inapplicable to a situation of a chose in action. In the said judgment, the 
possession was with respect to certain wrist watches, which were obviously 
not choses in action. According to him, Section 137 of the TP Act makes Section 132 inapplicable to debentures but the principles of common law 
and equity must surely govern even such transactions of transfer of 
debentures. Mr. Jethmalani further contended that although the suit bonds were 
excluded from the definition of 'goods' under Section 27 of the Sale of 
Goods Act, 1930 and Section 27 does not apply to the situation, the general 
rule of transfer of property, that a transferee acquired no better title than the 
transferor, holds good and applies even in the case of the suit bonds. Thus, 
according to Mr. Jethmalani, in a situation like this, where there is a defect 
in the title of the antecedent transferor, the transferee got no title. In his 
submission, the general principle of the legal maxim nemo dat quod non 
habet must govern all transactions. Relying on the judgment of the Chancery 
Division in France v. Clark, he contended that this rule is not derogated 
from under Section 108 of the Companies Act, 1956. The provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 for registration in the name of a transferee merely give 
complete effect, provided there is already a prior valid transferor. A mere 
registration cannot effectuate a document which was, as between the alleged 
transferor or transferee, inoperative and of no effect. Relying on the 
judgment of the Chancery Division (supra) he contended that even when a 
blank transfer form is signed, there is no notice that the transferor is the 
owner and if the circumstances are such that the transferee is put on enquiry 
as to the bona fides of the transfer or the circumstances are such that the 
transferee must be deemed to have been put on such enquiry, then the 
transferee would not be a purchaser for value without notice of defect in the 
title of the transferor. He contended that even assuming CMF came into 
possession of the original LOA of the suit bonds together with blank transfer 
deeds, there would be clear notice that the transfer deeds were signed by 
someone other than the original owner of the suit bonds; if CMF had made 
the slightest enquiry, it would have learnt that the original owner (SCB), was 
not intending to transfer them to CMF. Thus, in his submission, CMF cannot 
be said to be a purchaser for value without notice. At all points of time, it 
had notice that whoever was delivering the original LOA with the blank 
transfer deed was not a person with full title to the suit bonds. Referring to 
the defence of CMF, he contended that CMF initially took the stand that the 
suit bonds had been acquired by it from ABFSL through HPD, subsequently 
changed its stand and alleged that HPD must have acted as a broker either 
for ABFSL or for SCB or on his own behalf. According to Mr. Jethmalani, 
this is a situation where CMF is unable to say as to who was the person with 
the antecedent title who could have transferred the title to CMF for bona fide 
purchase for value without notice. He criticised the impugned judgment of 
the Special Court for brushing aside the principle in France v. Clark 
(supra) on the ground that HPD was the owner of the suit bonds. He pointed 
out that the principle in France v. Clark (supra) has been reiterated and 
applied in India also and has been followed in V.S. Venkata Subbiah 
Chetty v. A. Subha Naidu and Ors. and Govt. of the United States of 
Travancore and Cochin v. Bank of Cochin Ltd. . In his submission, a 
transferee of an actionable claim gets no better title than that of the 
transferor and he would take it subject to all the liabilities and equities to 
which the transferor was subject. On the basis of the pleadings of CMF, it 
acquired the right to the suit bonds from HPD. HPD could not confer a better 
title than he himself had to the suit bonds. It is the case of SCB that HPD 
had got the bonds by theft, misappropriation or some other offence and, 
hence, it could not pass any title to CMF. He, therefore, contended that even 
if the case of CMF is to be accepted, CMF got no title to the suit bonds. 
	The only exception would be the case of a bona fide purchaser for 
value without notice. He seriously questioned both the bona fides and lack 
of notice, on the part of CMF. He contended that the so called acquisition of 
the suit bonds by CMF was neither bona fide nor was CMF a purchaser for 
value, as no consideration had been paid by CMF and, in any event, CMF 
had or ought to have had notice of the lack of title on the part of its 
antecedent title holder. Impugning the bona fides of the transaction by which CMF claimed to 
have acquired the suit bonds, Mr. Jethmalani points out that although CMF 
took up the initial stand that the suit bonds had been purchased from 
ABFSL, it later shifted its stand. In its petition before the CLB, CMF 
claimed that it had purchased the suit bonds from ABFSL by paying it 
consideration. In its written statement in the Suit, CMF took up the stand 
that it had purchased the suit bonds from HPD, who was acting on behalf of 
ABFSL or SCB. In its supplementary written statement, it contended that it 
bought the bonds from HPD acting for himself or ABFSL or SCB. Learned 
counsel contended that such a plea coming from a financial institution, 
which had entered into a transaction worth about Rs. 45 crores was utterly 
absurd and unbelievable. At no point of time did CMF state on record as to 
what was the representation made by HPD when he allegedly sold the suit 
bonds to CMF on 27.2.1992. It was not as if ABFSL was an unknown party, 
for the record shows that there were at least 23 transactions between CMF 
and ABFSL in November 1991 and 4 transactions even on 27.2.1992. Even 
after HPD filed his affidavit alleging that the suit bonds had been 'lent' by 
SCB, CMF did not care to deny the contents of HPD's affidavit. As a 
banker, CMF knew that no transaction in securities could take place without 
a cost memo, or some other kind of documentation. This was a case where 
CMF has been unable to produce any credible documentation to support its 
plea that the suit bonds were purchased from/through HPD on 27.2.1992. A 
document relied upon as evidencing the alleged transaction is the letter dated 
27.2.1992 issued by HPD to CMF in which he had asked for a bankers' 
cheque in the sum of Rs. 46,01,23,287.67 in favour of AB. The deal slip 
pertaining to this transaction bearing date 27.2.1992 showing that the suit 
bonds of the value of Rs. 50 crores had been bought from ABFSL through 
HPD, was an internal document of CMF suggesting purchase of the suit 
bonds from ABFSL through HPD as broker. Thus, the evidence led by CMF 
was that it had bought the suit bonds from ABFSL with HPD as the broker. 
At no point of time did it seek or obtain a cost memo for this transaction. 
R.V. Shenoy (PW-2), ABFSL's employee, denies that any such transaction 
had taken place by which the suit bonds were sold by ABFSL to CMF with 
HPD as a broker or otherwise, and there is no cross-examination on this 
aspect. Interestingly, even the Special Court does not hold that there was any 
transaction on 27.2.1992 in which CMF had bought the suit bonds from 
ABFSL. The Special Court glossed over the matter by stating that the 15% 
arrangement made HPD the owner of the suit bonds and, therefore, it was a 
transaction between HPD and CMF. No evidence was led by CMF as to which employee of CMF had 
transacted the deal in which the suit bonds were purchased from ABFSL 
ostensibly, through HPD as the broker, on 27.2.1992. Affidavit of one Satish 
was filed as a witness of CMF who claimed knowledge about the 
transaction, but the said Satish was not examined. The only witness of CMF, 
Nandita Rao, frankly admitted that she had no personal knowledge of the 
suit transaction whatsoever. No other documents were produced by CMF to 
show that such a transaction was entered into between itself and ABFSL 
with HPD as the broker, as a result of which it came into possession of the 
suit bonds as an owner. It is impossible to believe the story of CMF that, a 
financial institution could have entered into a deal of such magnitude 
without a scrap of document. That is the reason why even the Special Court 
does not hold that there is any evidence on record from which a conclusion 
can be drawn in favour of CMF acting bona fide. The evidence on record 
does not appear to support the story of CMF that it had entered into a 
contract under which it purchased the suit bonds from ABFSL on 27.2.1992 
with HPD as the broker. Mr. Kapadia, learned counsel for CMF, relied on the judgment of a 
learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court in Fazal D. Allana v. 
Mangaldas M. Pakvasa in support of his contention that, it is common 
practice in the share market that shares are transferred by mere delivery with 
a transfer deed signed in blank and that in such a situation there was no 
question of CMF being put to notice that there was anything irregular in the 
LOA of the suit bonds delivered to CMF by a transfer deed signed in blank 
by ABFSL. He, therefore, contends that this was a bona fide transfer 
consistent with the market practice. As a result of the Bombay High Court 
judgment, the authority of France v. Clark (supra) was shaken, is the 
submission of the learned counsel. Relying on the judgment of this Court in Vasudev Ramchandra Shelat v. Pranlal Jayanand Thaker and Ors. it 
is pointed out that a transfer of property in securities, which is recognised by 
the TP Act , may be antecedent to the actual vesting of all or the full rights of 
ownership of shares and exercise of the rights of a shareholder in accordance 
with the provisions of company law. The antecedent transfer of title in the 
security results in the equitable right of the transferee to be registered by the 
company. Learned counsel contended that as a result of delivery of the 
original LOA accompanied by the blank transfer deed, CMF acquired 
ownership rights including the equitable right as against NPCL to have its 
name registered as the owner. Strongly refuting the argument of Mr. 
Jethmalani, Mr. Kapadia contended that since delivery of securities 
accompanied by a blank transfer deed was a common practice in the trade, 
there was no occasion for alarm bells ringing merely because the original 
LOA accompanied by blank transfer deed was delivered to CMF. In our 
view, notwithstanding the market practice of delivery of securities 
accompanied by a signed blank transfer deed, the property in the securities 
can only be transferred if there is bona fide purchase of the same for value. 
The crucial question in the present case is: did CMF purchase the suit bonds 
for value from the antecedent title holder? This brings us to the last limb of the argument of Mr. Jethmalani that 
CMF can never be said to be a purchaser for value, as there is no evidence to 
show that any consideration was paid by CMF for acquisition of the suit 
bonds. When the matter was first tried by Variava, J. as the Special Court, the 
learned counsel appearing for CMF categorically admitted that there was no 
evidence by which it could be established that CMF had paid consideration 
for acquisition of the bonds. It is true that this judgment was subsequently 
set aside by this Court and the matter was remanded for trial along with the 
Misc. Petition. But this is a significant fact which the Special Court could 
not have overlooked in appreciation of the evidence.
	The stand taken by CMF is that on 27.2.1992 it purchased the suit 
bonds and the 17% NPCL bonds for a total sum of Rs. 46,01,23,287.67, of 
which, Rs. 46 crores was the purchase price and Rs. 1,23,287.67 was the 
accrued interest on the bonds for one day i.e. from 26.2.1992 to 27.2.1992. 
CMF claimed that the consideration for acquisition of the suit bonds and 
17% NPCL bonds was paid by two sales of 13% NLC bonds and 13% 
MTNL bonds. In other words, according to CMF, there were two purchases 
and two sales on 27.2.1992. CMF alleged that on 20.11.1991 there were 19 
sales and four purchases. The four purchases included the 13% NLC bonds 
and 13% MTNL bonds, which formed part of the consideration for purchase 
of the suit bonds on 27.2.1992. The evidence in support of its alleged 
purchase of 13% NLC bonds and 13% MTNL bonds is again somewhat 
convoluted. The Special Court held that out of the so called 19 sales alleged 
on 20.11.1991, 10 had been proved by the evidence led by CMF and jumped 
to the conclusion that thereby all 19 must be taken to have been proved. The 
Special Court observes: "The important point which the Court has to bear in 
mind is whether the Court should reject all the 10 sales which stands proved 
because the remaining 9 sales could not be proved. The answer is in the 
negative. The evidence in the form of 7 BRs; the evidence in the form of 
Andhra Bank Purchase Register, the evidence in the form of Andhra Bank 
Sale Register, and the evidence in the form of Exhibit-H as well as the 
evidence of PW-2 cannot be thrown overboard as bogus. These 10 
transactions, as proved, shows that CMF is right in saying that they had sales 
on 20.11.1991 with HPD who had received the securities from CMF. In the 
circumstances, I hold that payment of consideration for four purchases dated 
20.11.1991 stands proved." This finding, in our view, is wholly untenable. 
There is no warrant for the conclusion that if some transactions are proved, 
all transactions on the same day are to be held to be proved.
	Having erroneously held thus, the Special Court finds that after 
adjusting the transactions, there was a netted amount of Rs. 3,87,46,575.35 
which was payable by HPD to CMF, which was paid to CMF as evidenced 
by HPD's letter dated 26.2.1992 giving instructions to AB to pay the amount 
to CMF and debit the aforesaid amount to his account.
	 Mr. Jethmalani justifiably criticised these findings of the Special 
Court. In the first place, the transactions of 20.11.1991 and the transactions 
of 27.2.1992 appear to between CMF and HPD. Assuming they are proved, 
as held by the Special Court, and the netted amount of Rs. 3,87,46,575.35 
was paid by HPD to CMF, it does not prove that the consideration of the suit 
bonds was paid to ABFSL/SCB, who alone could have been the antecedent 
owner of the suit bonds. It is the erroneous inference of the Special Court 
that HPD had become the owner of the suit bonds that has misdirected it into 
assuming that CMF had paid considerations for purchase of the suit bonds. 
There is merit in this contention. One of the documents relied upon in 
support of the story of sales made on 20.11.1991 is a letter from HPD dated 
20.11.1991 addressed to the Manager, AB advising him to issue a bankers' 
cheque in favour of CMF for Rs. 2,75,18,571.04. CMF's witness, Nandita 
Rao (DW-1), was specifically asked in cross-examination as to how much of 
the amount was payable by CMF to ABFSL as a result of the transactions 
dated 20.11.1991. She answered that it was an amount of Rs. 
21,77,01,565.98 and claimed that it was the difference between the amount 
paid and received. She also stated that, in addition to the aforestated amount, 
an amount of Rs. 4,75,55,205.51 also became payable as sundry creditors. 
She also stated that she had arrived at the figure after taking into account all 
the purchases and sales of 20.11.1991 and also from the RBI Cash Book. 
Thus, according to the evidence led by CMF, CMF had to pay to ABFSL on 
20.11.1991 a large sum as a result of their deals which took place on 
20.11.1991. Surprisingly, instead of CMF paying ABFSL the aforesaid 
amount, on the same day, two sums of Rs. 2,75,18,571.04 and Rs. 
4,56,70,000.00 as evidenced by letter dated 20.11.1991 written by HPD to 
AB, came to be paid to CMF by HPD. It is evident that some of the existing 
documents with regard to various deals have been put together by CMF to 
patch up the story of consideration put forward by it. 
	Another strange document which shakes the credibility of the story of 
consideration set up by CMF is the letter dated 26.2.1992 from HPD to AB 
instructing AB to issue a bankers' cheque in favour of CMF for a sum of 
Rs. 3,87,46,575.35 and debit his account. The actual number of the cheque is 
also shown on the document as 143941 dated 27.2.1992. There is also a 
statement of the RBI account of HPD with AB showing the debit of the 
aforesaid amount to the books of HPD in AB. The Special Court relies on 
this letter as evidencing the netting of the transactions between CMF and 
HPD on 27.2.1992. Mr. Jethmalani legitimately criticised the story of 
consideration put forward by CMF by urging that, if the aforesaid amount of 
Rs. 3,87,46,575.35 was the amount after netting, which had been arrived at 
on 27.2.1992, it was impossible to believe that HPD had the prescience on 
26.2.1992 to know the exact amount that would be arrived at after netting of 
transactions including the purchase of the suit bonds on 27.2.1992. 
Although, SCB raised this point in the arguments and pointed out that this 
letter belies the stand of CMF, the Special Court brushed it aside by saying 
that it did not find any merit in the argument and observing: "merely because 
letter is dated 26.2.1992 one cannot assume that HPD knew about the 
transactions one day prior to 27.2.1992. The remark indicating pay order 
number and the date of 27.2.1992 shows that the instructions were 
specifically given on 27.2.1992." Moreover, if we accept the finding of the 
Special Court that the transaction of the suit bonds between HPD and CMF 
on 27.2.1992 did take place, then there is no explanation for the suit bonds 
being sold to and purchased from other parties during the period 27.2.1992 
to 9.5.1992 as shown in Exhibit-11. The pleadings of CMF on the issue of consideration appear to be 
most confusing and shifty. The exercise carried out by the Special Court of 
analysing several transactions and discharge of BRs, shows transactions of 
payments back and forth between CMF and HPD. The ledger folio produced 
by CMF in support of its stand is also hardly reliable. The ledger entry 
pertaining to the purchase of 13% NLC bonds discloses a very curious state 
of affairs. The entry pertaining to 20.11.1991 is hand written after the entry 
of 30.11.1991. When the witness of CMF, Nandita Rao (DW-1), was cross-
examined as to how the entry of 20.11.1991 could have been written in the 
ledger folio after the entry of 30.11.1991, she had hardly any explanation for 
that except professing ignorance. The said witness was also asked as to 
whether she came across any document from ABFSL in support of the 
transactions of 20.11.1991 on the basis of which she had prepared the 
vouchers and ledger entries. She admitted that she had not seen any 
document from ABFSL on the basis of which such entries were made. Under 
cross-examination, the said witness also stated that she did not remember 
whether any documents were received from ABFSL in support of the four 
general vouchers dated 27.2.1992 and she further admitted that, irrespective 
of whether a cheque was received or not, it was a routine practice to write 
"RBI cheque received from ABFSL" in the transactions with ABFSL. 
Considering the evidence as a whole, it appears that the initial stand taken by 
the learned counsel of CMF in the first round of the litigation, that there was 
no credible evidence on which payment of consideration by CMF could be 
proved, was fully justified. The attempt of CMF on picking up and putting 
forward some of the documents, out of the several transactions entered into 
by them to patch up the story of consideration, in our opinion, has miserably 
failed. There was no cause for being charitable to CMF by saying that they 
could prove only a part of the consideration, ergo, rest of the transactions 
must be deemed to have been proved. We are of the view that every one of 
the arguments put forward by SCB to impugn the story of CMF that it had 
paid consideration is justified and the Special Court was wrong in rejecting 
the arguments of SCB on this count. We, therefore, hold that CMF has 
utterly failed to prove its story that it had paid consideration for purchase of 
the suit bonds on 27.2.1992. Conclusion: