IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA
 R.S.A. No. 243 of 2013

 . Judgment reserved on: 09.11.2016

 Date of decision: 16 . 11. 2016. The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Judge. Whether approved for reporting ?1 Yes
 For the Appellant : Ms. Ritta Goswami, Advocate. For the Respondent : Mr. Tara Singh Chauhan, Advocate. Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Judge

 The plaintiff is the appellant, who has lost in both the Courts

 below and has filed the second appeal praying therein for setting aside

 the judgments and decrees so passed by the Courts below. 2. The plaintiff/appellant (hereinafter referred to as the 'plaintiff')

 sought a declaration to the effect that the alleged Will dated 14.6.2000

 allegedly executed by Paras Ram in favour of the respondent/defendant

 (hereinafter referred to as the 'defendant'), was fictitious and is the result

 of undue influence and, therefore, he be restrained by way of permanent

 prohibitory injunction from interfering in the suit land comprised in Khewat

 No. 213, Khatauni No. 240, Khasra Nos. 701, 713, Kita-2, measuring 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the Judgment ?yes ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:33:43 :::HCHP 2 3-16-17 situated in Muhal Dehar/75, Tehsil Sundernagar, District Mandi,

 H.P.

 . 3. The plaintiff claimed herself to be the legally wedded wife of

 Paras Ram, who expired on 19.5.2001, that too, after suffering long

 ailment. It was claimed that the plaintiff was the sole surviving legal heir

 of Paras Ram, who was owner in possession of the suit land and had

 of
 expired without leaving behind any Will regarding the suit land. It was

 further averred that she came to know about the forged and fictitious Will
 rt
 when the same was presented before the Assistant Collector 2nd Grade,

 Sundernagar. It was also contended that Paras Ram was not in a sound

 disposing mind due to long ailment and had therefore not executed the

 Will, which is the result of undue influence. Hence the suit. 4. The defendant contested the suit of the plaintiff by filing

 written statement wherein preliminary objection regarding locus standi

 was raised. On merits, it was claimed that the plaintiff was the divorced

 wife of Paras Ram and, therefore, she has no right, title and interest over

 the suit land in any manner whatsoever. It was pleaded that after getting

 divorce from Paras Ram, the plaintiff had contracted second marriage

 and was therefore, not entitled to the property left behind by him. It was

 further pleaded that Paras Ram had executed a Will on account of the

 services rendered by the defendant and the same was registered on

 14.6.2000 and it was by virtue of this Will that the defendant had now

 become owner in possession of the suit land. It was lastly contended that

 the Will was genuine and valid and accordingly dismissal of the suit

 alongwith costs was prayed for. 5. In her replication, the plaintiff reiterated the contents of the

 plaint in totality and refuted the averments as contained in the written

 . statement. 6. On 17.5.2003, the learned trial Court framed the following

 issues: rt
 Whether the plaintiff is entitled to the relief of permanent
 prohibitory injunction as prayed? OPP 4. Whether Paras Ram executed a due and valid Will in favour
 of the defendant on 14.6.2000 as alleged? OPD 5. Whether the plaintiff has no locus-standi to file the suit? OPD 6. Whether the Will dated 14.6.2000 executed by Paras Ram in
 favour of the defendant is a result of undue influence as

 alleged? If so, to what effect? OPD 7. Relief. 7. After recording the evidence and evaluating the same, the

 learned trial Court dismissed the suit and the appeal preferred against

 such judgment and decree was also dismissed by learned Additional

 District Judge, Mandi vide its judgment and decree dated 21.12.2012. 8. Aggrieved by the judgment and decree passed by the

 learned lower Appellate Court, the appellant has filed the instant appeal

 which has been admitted by this Court on 10.6.2013 on the following

 substantial question of law: 9. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and have gone

 through the records of the case carefully. . 10. At the outset, it may be noticed that the plaintiff had not

 disputed the execution of the Will but has only claimed the same to be an

 outcome of fraud and is a result of undue influence. Therefore, the first

 question that arises for consideration is as to whether the plaintiff has

 of
 failed to raise these pleas as contemplated under Order 6 Rule 4 CPC which reads as follows: 11. The answer to this question is definitely in the negative for

 the simple reason that apart from using the words like fraud, undue

 influence, not genuine, there is no specific particulars having set-forth

 and it is more than settled that a vague of general plea can never serve

 this purpose and the party pleading must therefore be required to plead

 the precise nature of the influence exercised, the manner of use of the

 influence and the unfair advantage obtained by the other. 12. Reference in this regard can conveniently be made to the

 judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Subhas Chandra Das

 Mushib v. Ganga Prosad Das Mushib and others AIR 1967 SC 878

 wherein it was held as under: 13. It shall be apt to make reference to the judgment of the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Afsar Shaikh and another v. Soleman Bibi

 and others AIR 1976 Supreme Court, 163, wherein the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court has held as under: of 14. Yet again on the subject, reference to a judgment rendered

 by this Court in Upasna and others vs. Omi Devi, 2001 (2) Current

 Law Journal (H.P.) 278 is also essential as the law on the subject was
 rt
 lucidly dealt and it was held as under: 15. It is surprising that though the plaintiff had herself raised the

 plea of fraud and undue influence but strangely enough, learned trial

 Court did not even bother to frame an issue and straightway placed the

 onus upon the propounder of the Will to dispel the so called suspicious

 circumstances. 16. It is high time the Courts clearly understand the legal

 position and desist from placing the onus directly upon the propounder of

 the Will irrespective of the case set up by the opposite party. The correct

 legal position in matters of Will was laid down by the three Hon'ble

 Judges of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in H. Venkatachala Iyengar vs.

 B.N. Thimmajamma and others AIR 1959 SC 443 and thereafter

 approved by the Hon'ble Constitution Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court in Shashi Kumar Banerjee and others vs. Subodh Kumar

 Banerjee and others AIR 1964 SC 529 and thereafter reiterated in a

 number of cases including three Judges of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Smt. Jaswant Kaur vs. Smt. Amrit Kaur and others (1977) 1 SCC 369, ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:33:43 :::HCHP 8 wherein the legal position was succinctly summed up in the following

 manner: was made, or that those like the wife and children of the testator

 who would normally receive their due share in his estate were
 disinherited because the testator might have had his own

 reasons for excluding them. The presence of suspicious
 circumstances makes the initial onus heavier and therefore, in
 cases where the circumstances attendant upon the execution of

 of
 the will excite the suspicion of the court, the propounder must
 remove all legitimate suspicions before the document can be
 accepted as the last will of the testator. rt 5. It is in connection with wills, the execution of which is
 surrounded by suspicious circumstance that the test of

 satisfaction of the judicial conscience has been evolved. That
 test emphasises that in determining the question as to whether
 an instrument produced before the court is the last will of the

 testator, the court is called upon to decide a solemn question
 and by reason of suspicious circumstances the court has to be
 satisfied fully that the will has been validly executed by the

 testator. 6. If a caveator alleges fraud, undue influence, coercion etc. in
 regard to the execution of the will, such pleas have to be proved
 by him, but even in the absence of such pleas, the very

 circumstances surrounding the execution' of the will may raise a
 doubt as to whether the testator was acting of his own free will.
 And then it is a part of the initial onus of the propounder to
 remove all reasonable doubts in the matter." 17. Thus, it is absolutely clear from the aforesaid exposition of

 law that if a caveator alleges fraud, undue influence, coercion etc. in

 regard to the execution of the Will, such pleas have to be proved by him

 and only where the circumstances surrounding the execution of the Will

 may raise a doubt as to whether the testator was acting of his own free

 Will, then it is a part of the initial onus of the propounder to remove all

 reasonable doubts in the matter. 18. Adverting to the facts of the case, it would be noticed that as

 regards the oral evidence, the plaintiff has examined another witness

 . besides herself. She appeared as PW-1 and stated that she was married

 with Paras Ram about 40 years back, but no legal heir was born out from

 the wedlock. Her husband had expired on 19.5.2001 and therefore, she

 became the owner of the land in question. She performed his last rites

 of
 and prior to his death, he was not in a position to understand about his

 good and bad and had in fact at one time killed an ox. The Will was
 rt
 claimed to be false one. However, when it got down to cross-examination,

 she candidly admitted that right from the date of her birth, she had been

 residing at the house of her parents. Though, she denied the suggestion

 that divorce had taken place with Paras Ram. She also denied Paras

 Ram was being looked after by the family of his brother and further

 denied that the defendant was looking after Paras Ram and in lieu of his

 services had executed a Will in his favour. 19. PW-2 Kali Dass is the brother of Paras Ram, who claimed

 that Paras Ram was of unsound mind from his childhood and he had

 killed an ox. He further stated that Paras Ram was not able to

 understand about his good and bad and in his cross-examination, stated

 that it is known that Paras Ram had executed a Will in favour of Mast

 Ram as Mast Ram had been looking after him. 20. As against this evidence, Mast Ram, defendant, appeared as

 DW-1 and deposed that he was looking after Paras Ram and due to that

 reasons he had executed a Will in his favour on 14.6.2000 which was

 registered with the Sub Registrar, Sundernagar and mutation on this

 basis had also been attested. He further stated that the plaintiff was ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:33:43 :::HCHP 11 divorced 20-25 years ago and it was Hari Mohan son of brother of Paras

 Ram, who had performed his last rites. He further stated that Will was

 . executed by Paras Ram in a sound disposing state of mind. In cross- examination, the witness admitted that the Will was scribed in his

 presence and further stated that Chaman Lal's house is 5 KM away from

 Alsu and the house of witness was 26-27 kilometers away from village

 of
 Alsu. The witnesses signed the Will in his presence. However denied that

 the Will was executed by him by exercising undue influence over Paras
 rt
 Ram. He admitted that Paras Ram was alone and helpless and claimed

 that he looked after him. 21. DW-2 Onkar Singh is the Document Writer, who proved the

 Will Ex.DW-2/A, which is scribed by him on 14.6.2000 at the instance of

 Paras Ram. He stated that at the time of execution of the Will, Paras Ram

 was in sound disposing state of mind. After scribing the Will, he had read

 over and explained the contents of the Will to Paras Ram and the

 witnesses also and after admitting the contents to be correct by all of

 them, the same was signed by Paras Ram and thereafter the witnesses

 had put their signatures on it. The Will was thereafter taken to Tehsil

 office where the same was attested by the Tehsildar. The signature of

 Paras Ram was in red circle. In cross-examination, the witness stated

 that Paras Ram was not personally known to him. He stated that he was

 identified by Sh. D. K. Abrol, Advocate, but denied the suggestion that the

 Will had drafted at the instance of Sh. Abrol. He denied the suggestion

 that Paras Ram while executing the Will was not in sound disposing mind. Lastly, he denied the suggestion that neither Paras Ram nor witnesses

 signed the Will in his presence. 22. DW-3 Chaman Lal deposed that Paras Ram got executed a

 Will in favour of defendant which was scribed by DW-2 at his instance. He

 . alongwith Paras Ram son of Hiru Ram had witnessed the Will which had

 been read over by the scribe to Paras Ram, who after understanding the

 same as correct, put his signature on the Will and thereafter he alongwith

 another witnesses had put their signatures on the Will. He categorically

 of
 stated that Paras Ram had signed the Will in his presence and

 Ext.DW-2/A is the same Will. He further deposed that after signing the
 rt
 Will, he went to the Tehsil office where Tehsildar asked Paras Ram about

 the Will and it is only after satisfying him regarding the execution of the

 Will that the same had been registered. In cross-examination the witness

 stated that his house was 3 KM away from Alsu and he admitted that

 there were other houses at Alsu. He could not tell about the other

 relatives of Paras Ram and the details of other family members. He

 stated that the Will was prepared of about 4 bighas of land and denied

 the suggestion that the Executant Paras Ram was not in sound disposing

 mind or that he had not executed the Will. 23. DW-4 Hem Raj deposed that the Will Ex.DW-2/A was

 registered with Sub Registrar Office, Sundernagar at serial No. 133 dated

 14.6.2000. DW-5 D.K.Abrol, Advocate, deposed that he had been

 practicing as an Advocate since 1967 and late Paras Ram was known to

 him. He stated that on 14.6.2000 Paras Ram had executed a Will in

 favour of Mast Ram and he had identified Paras Ram before Sub

 Registrar, Sundernagar. He proved the Will Ex.DW-2/A by identifying his

 signatures in circle red. He further stated that Sub Registrar read over

 and explained the contents of the Will to Paras Ram and had also made ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:33:43 :::HCHP 13 an inquiry and only thereafter the Will had been registered. In cross- examination, the witness stated that he put his signatures on the Will only

 . as an identifier and denied the suggestion that the testator Paras Ram

 was not in sound disposing mind or that the Will had been prepared

 fraudulently. This is the entire oral evidence led by the parties. of 24. At this stage, it may be stated that the Will in question is a

 registered one and, therefore, there is a presumption to its being validly
 rt
 executed and onus of proof will be on the other party, who wants to set

 off the above presumption. 25. It is settled law that it is for the propounder of the Will to repel

 all the suspicious circumstances surrounding the Will and to prove the

 genuineness of the Will. Besides this, the propounder would also to

 satisfy the following points qua the due execution of the Will. depositions and had put his signature on the document
 of his own free volition and will. 26. In Ningawwa vs. Byrappa Shiddappa Hireknrabar AIR

 1968, SC 956, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under: "27. There is a presumption that a registered document is validly
 executed. A registered document, therefore, prima-facie would
 be valid in law. The onus of proof, thus, would be on a person
 who leads evidence to rebut the presumption. In the instant
 case, Respondent 1 has not been able to rebut the said
 presumption." 27. In Prem Singh vs. Birbal (2006) 5 SCC 353, it was held as

 under: 28. It however, needs to be clarified that though it is always for
 rt
 the propounder of the Will to repel all the suspicious circumstances

 surrounding the Will and to prove its genuineness, the testamentary Court

 is a Court of conscience and not a Court of suspicion. It is not the law

 that, whenever a Will is sought to be proved in the Court, the Court

 should start with the presumption that the Will is not genuine or that it is

 fraudulent or that the person who chooses to establish the Will must

 remove all such suspicions even when they are unreal. 29. The object of the Court proceedings is not to render the

 testamentary document ineffective but to make it effective and render the

 terms of that Will operative. In doing so, the Court has to bear in mind

 and has to take note of the fact that the testator is not available before the

 Court to state as to whether the document in fact was his or her last Will

 or as to whether he or she had signed the same and whether the

 attestors had signed receiving an acknowledgment from him about the

 execution of the Will. It is for that reason that the Courts should be

 cautious while dealing with the evidence placed before it in relation to the

 execution and attestation of the Will as also the disposing state of mind of ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:33:43 :::HCHP 15 the testator. This need for caution cannot be exploited by unscrupulous

 caveators who choose to cull out imaginary suspicious with a view to

 . prevent the legatees under the Will from claiming the benefit thereunder

 and to render the Will of the deceased wholly ineffective. In this context,

 the conduct of the persons who raise the alleged ground for suspicion is

 also to be looked at in order to judge as to how credible are the grounds

 of
 for suspicion as sought to be raised by such person. 30. Adverting to the facts of the case, it would be noticed that
 rt
 the defendant has been able to prove the Will by removing all the so

 called suspicious circumstances to the judicial conscious of this Court. It

 has come on record that the appellant, who claimed herself to be the wife

 of deceased Paras Ram had apparently got married to him when she

 was hardly 10 years and had never stayed in his house and had been

 residing at the house of her parents. That apart, what strikes the judicial

 conscious of this Court is the fact that if the plaintiff was really so called

 wife of Paras Ram, then would she have left him simply to die because

 while appearing as PW-1 she herself claims that Paras Ram was not in

 sound disposing mind, whereas PW-2 goes to the extent of stating that

 Paras Ram was of unsound mind. 31. The word 'wife' is not simply a word. In relationship of

 husband and wife, there are certain obligations and duties which both the

 spouse have to discharge and that would not only mean the obligation in

 matter of leading conjugal life but would include the obligation to take

 care of husband when he is ill, infirm or sick. Even if these obligations are

 not taken to be legal, these can definitely be considered as moral

 obligations. 32. Ms. Ritta Goswami, learned counsel for the plaintiff would

 vehemently argue that even if the plaintiff has failed to prove the so

 . called fraud or undue influence, even then the onus to dispel the Will

 from all the aforesaid rests upon the propounder of the Will and would

 rely upon the following judgments: Indu Bala vs. Mahindra Chandra 1982 SC 133, Janki Narayan Bhoir vs. Narayan Namdeo Kadam 2003

 of AIR SC 761, Joseph Antony Lazarus vs. A.J. Francis ( 2006) 9 SCC

 515, Sham Singh vs. Smt. Rano Devi , 2007 Latest HLJ, 352.. There
 rt
 cannot be any quarrel with the proposition of law as laid down in the

 aforesaid judgments and this question has already been dealt with by me

 in the earlier part of the judgment. 33. It is next contended by learned counsel for the plaintiff that

 the testator has given no reasons in the Will to exclude the natural heir

 and would rely upon the judgment rendered by this Court in Bal Krishan

 and another vs. Shangri Devi, 2008 (2) Latest HLJ 799 and Ashok

 Bansal vs. Anju Goel, (2011) 3 SLC 52. 34. As regards the recording of reasons in the Will, once it has

 come on record that the appellant never resided with the deceased, then

 obviously Paras Ram never considered her to be his legally wedded wife,

 the same need not necessarily be disclosed in the Will and it was always

 open to the propounder of the Will to establish that she carried out her

 matrimonial obligation by taking care of Paras Ram, which unfortunately

 she neither alleged or proved. The substantial question of law is accordingly answered

 against the appellant. 35. In view of aforesaid detailed discussion, I find no merit in this

 appeal and the same is accordingly dismissed, so also the pending

 . application(s) if any, leaving the parties to bear their own costs. ( Tarlok Singh Chauhan )
 th
 November 16 , 2016. Judge. (GR)

 of
 rt ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:33:43 :::HCHP