IA No. 5642/2011 (u/O 7 R 11 CPC ) 1. This is an application filed by defendant No. 4 under Order 7 Rule 11
CPC seeking dismissal of the suit as barred by law. 2. It is the contention of the applicant that the present suit is hit by Article 56 of Schedule 1 read with Section 3 of the Limitation Act. He
submits that the documents under challenge in the suit are required to be
challenged within three years from the date of its execution. Hence, it is
stated that the suit for cancellation of the two documents is hopelessly
barred by limitation on the face of it and cannot be entertained. 3. The plaintiff has filed the present suit seeking a decree of declaration
declaring letter dated 20.03.1993 by which possession of Flat No. 4115, C-
4, FF, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi was handed over by defendant No. 1-DDA
to defendant No. 2 as illegal, null and void, a decree of possession for the
said flat against the defendants and a decree of permanent injunction against
the defendants pertaining to the said flat. 4. The brief facts which have led to the filing of the present suit as stated
in the plaint are that a self-financing scheme was floated by defendant No. 1
in 1982. The plaintiff got herself registered on 10.06.1982. She was declared
successful in the bid held on 31.12.1987 and defendant No. 1 sent a demand-
cum-allotment letter at her address at 472, Chitla Gate, Chawri Bazar,
Delhi. It is stated that thereafter, the plaintiff lost original papers relating to
the said flat including the demand letter. Hence, the plaintiff lodged a
complaint with P.S. Jama Masjid on 17.01.1990. A request was made on
19.01.1990 to DDA for issuance of demand-cum-allotment letter. On
05.03.1991 a draw of lots was held and the plaintiff was allotted the suit
property. She further claims that she did not receive the demand letter of the
5th and final instalment. 5. It is further alleged that defendant No. 2 was a close friend and was
having cordial relations with the husband of the plaintiff. The husband of the
plaintiff went out of station in the month of February, 1990. The plaintiff
was in the need of money. She requested defendant No. 2 for a loan of
Rs.1,50,000/-. Defendant No. 2 gave the said loan. Further it is stated that CS(OS) No.509/ 2011 Page 2 of 20 as the officials of defendant No. 1 were harassing the plaintiff, on the
assurance of defendant No. 2 that he would sort out all the problems, the
plaintiff executed attorney in favour of defendant No. 2. Later on when the
husband of the plaintiff came back, both the plaintiff and the husband got
suspicious as no communication was received from DDA. It is stated that
later on, they came to know that defendant No. 2 had played a fraud and got
executed other documents also in his favour to usurp the flat of the plaintiff
and the said defendant No. 2 in connivance with the officials of defendant
No. 1 got issued the demand letter of 5th and final instalment at his own
personal residential address and also got issued the possession letter in his
name at the aforesaid address. When the plaintiff came to know about the
fraud being played by defendant No. 2, the plaintiff got cancelled the said
deed of attorney and other documents which were got fraudulently signed by
her in the absence of her husband. It is further stated that on 30.09.1993 a
letter was sent to the Deputy Director of defendant No. 1 regarding
revocation of the deeds and defendant No. 1 was requested to desist from
entertaining the claim of any person with respect to the suit property. A legal
notice was also stated to have been served on defendant No. 1. It is further
alleged that the defendants 1 to 4 have colluded with each other and in
collusion and in connivance with each other, got forged further documents
showing that the plaintiff sold the flat to defendant No. 2 by the said forged
documents. Thereafter, it is stated that various applications were made under
the RTI Act to DDA for the information and for giving appropriate records. 6. Learned senior counsel appearing for defendant No. 4 submits that
for the purpose of consideration of the present application under Order 7 CS(OS) No.509/ 2011 Page 3 of 20 Rule 11 CPC , this Court has only to look at the averments in the plaint and
the accompanying documents filed by the plaintiff. He submits that the fact
of the matter is, though it is not stated by the plaintiff, that the plaintiff sold
the flat in question to defendant No. 2 for valid consideration and executed
an agreement to sell on 14.02.1990 and other documents. The said defendant
No. 2 thereafter sold the flat in 1993 to defendant No. 3. Defendant No. 3,
thereafter, is stated to have sold the property to defendant No. 4 in 1996. It is
stated that on account of the fact that defendants No. 2 and 3 have received
the full consideration, non has been appearing on their behalf. Learned
senior counsel has also relied upon various para‟s of the plaint and various
documents filed by the plaintiff along with the plaint to show that the claim
of the plaintiff is on the face of it barred by limitation. Reliance is placed on
legal notice dated 19.07.1993 issued by Sh.C.P. Wig, Advocate on behalf of
the plaintiff issued to the DDA pointing out that defendant No. 2-A.S.
Thandi is misusing the power of attorney and calling upon defendant No. 1-
DDA to desist from entertaining the claim of any person in respect of the
suit property. Reference is also made to letter dated 30.09.1993 written by
the plaintiff to defendant No. 1-DDA submitting documents including
revocation of GPA and SPA and also requesting DDA not to entertain claim
of any person in respect of the suit property. Reference is also made to
another letter dated 24.01.1994. In this letter plaintiff has mentioned that
defendant No. 2 has manipulated on the basis of the forged signatures, to
complete the procedure and has got possession of the suit flat with the grace
of the staff of DDA. Hence it is requested that letter of possession of the flat
may be handed over to the plaintiff. The same letter is addressed to
Commissioner (Housing), DDA. Reliance is placed on letter dated CS(OS) No.509/ 2011 Page 4 of 20 16.08.1995 written by DDA to the plaintiff pointing out that they have
received an application from defendant no. 3 for conversion of the property
from leasehold to freehold which flat the said defendant No. 3 had
purchased on the basis of GPA and agreement to sell executed from
defendant no. 2. The plaintiff was requested to clarify the position. Learned
senior counsel has strongly stressed on letter dated 13.06.1996 which was
issued by DDA to the plaintiff where it was pointed out that defendant No.
3 as attorney of the plaintiff had applied for conversion of the flat to free
hold and that there are two claimants for the flat and a dispute has arisen.
DDA advised the plaintiff to get her dispute sorted through the court of law
so that DDA could take further action as per the decision of the court.
Learned counsel stressed that this is a clear unequivocal cause of action
which had arisen in favour of the plaintiff on receipt of the said
communication from DDA and she should have filed appropriate
proceedings in court within three years from the said date. 7. It is further stressed that after the receipt of letter dated 13.06.1996
from DDA to the plaintiff, no steps whatsoever have been taken by the
plaintiff to claim her rights to the suit property. He submits that thereafter in
May 2009 the plaintiff appears to have again woken up and started writing
RTI applications to DDA asking for various documents. 8. The learned senior counsel relies upon Article 58 of Schedule 1 of the Limitation Act to state that to seek a decree of declaration, the limitation is
three years from the date when the right to sue first accrues. Learned senior
counsel has relied upon the following judgments to support his contention CS(OS) No.509/ 2011 Page 5 of 20 that the limitation is three years from the date when the right to sue first
accrues i.e.: He submits that indisputably in 1996 and prior thereto, the plaintiff
was fully aware that defendant No. 2 had taken possession of the suit
property from DDA. She was aware that defendant No. 2 had sold the flat to
defendant No. 3 and that defendant No. 3 had applied for conversion of the
flat to freehold. In view thereof she was obliged, in terms of Article 58 of
the Schedule 1 of the Limitation Act , to take steps within three years from
the said period. The present suit now filed in 2011 is hopelessly barred by
limitation on the face of it. Hence, he submits that in terms of Order 7 Rule
11, the present suit is barred by law. He submits that this application is liable
to be allowed and the suit is liable to be dismissed. 9. In contrast, learned counsel for the plaintiff has strongly urged that the
admitted fact is that the original file of the present that is not available with
DDA. In fact DDA has made a complaint with the police. It is stated that on
account of the fact that the file is missing, clearly there is a great fraud
committed by the defendants in connivance with each other and he submits
that the beneficiary of this fraud is obviously defendant No. 4. He relies CS(OS) No.509/ 2011 Page 6 of 20 upon a letter dated 13.10.2010 written by DDA to the plaintiff requesting the
plaintiff to furnish affidavit that the said flat has not been sold and has also
not been parted away. He submits that necessary affidavit was duly filed by
the plaintiff. He submits that the cause of action arose from this date and
hence, the suit has been filed within the limitation. Learned counsel also
relies upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Bhau
Ram v. Janak Singh and Ors [2012] SCCR 739 to contend that while
considering application under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC , the Court has to
examine only the averments in the plaint and the pleas taken by the
defendant in his written statement would be irrelevant. 10. He has reiterated that his client had no knowledge of the fraud
perpetuated upon the plaintiff. He further states that the value of the
property when it was allotted was more than Rs. 20 lacs and defendant No.
2 claims to have paid a paltry sum of Rs. 2.85 lacs. He states that the
original receipts given by DDA are available with him. This court asked the
learned counsel to tell when the plaintiff learnt about the fraud. He
submitted that when the plaintiff deposes in the witness box, she will give
the answer. 11. The issue that now arises is as to whether the present suit is barred by
law and the provisions of Order 7 Rule 11 CPC would be applicable to the
facts of this case. Relevant portion of Order 7 Rule 11 CPC reads as follows: (c) where the relief claimed is properly valued but the plaint is
 written upon paper insufficiently stamped, and the plaintiff, on
 being required by the Court to supply the requisite stamp-
 paper within a time to be fixed by the Court, fails to do so; (d)
 where the suit appears from the statement in the plaint to be
 barred by any law; (e) where it is not filed in duplicate; (f)
 where the plaintiff fails to comply with the provisions
 of rule 9. Provided that the time fixed by the Court for the
 correction of the valuation or supplying of the requisite stamp-
 paper shall not be extended unless the court, for reasons to be
 recorded, is satisfied that the plaintiff was prevented by any
 cause of an exceptional nature for correcting the valuation or
 supplying the requisite stamp-paper, as the case may be, within
 the time fixed by the Court and that refusal to extent such time
 would cause grave injustice to the plaintiff." 12. Hence according to the said provision of Order 7 Rule 11 (d), in case
a suit is barred by law, the same is liable to be dismissed. 13. Reference may now be had to Entry 58 and 59 of Schedule 1 of the Limitation Act and Section 3 of the Limitation Act which read as follows:- 14. Reference may be had to the judgments cited by the learned senior
counsel for the defendant No. 4. In Khatri Hotels Private Ltd. & Anr. Vs.
Union of India and Anr. , (supra), the Hon‟ble Supreme Court held as
follows: ... 27. While enacting Article 58 of the 1963 Act, the legislature
 has designedly made a departure from the language of Article
 120 of the 1908 Act. The word „first‟ has been used between the
 words `sue‟ and `accrued‟. This would mean that if a suit is based
 on multiple causes of action, the period of limitation will begin to
 run from the date when the right to sue first accrues. To put it CS(OS) No.509/ 2011 Page 9 of 20 differently, successive violation of the right will not give rise to
 fresh cause and the suit will be liable to be dismissed if it is
 beyond the period of limitation counted from the day when the
 right to sue first accrued." This court in Sanjeev Kalra vs. Jyoti Kalra & Ors. (supra), held as follows:- The legal position that flows from the above is that in a suit for
declaration, the limitation is three years from the date when the right to sue
first accrues. Similarly, in a suit to cancel or to set aside any instrument, the
limitation is three years from when the facts entitling the plaintiff to have the
instrument cancelled first become known to the plaintiff. 15. It has now to be seen in the facts of this case as to when the cause of
action first arose in favour of the plaintiff or when the plaintiff had
knowledge about the execution of documents in favour of defendant No.2.
This enquiry has to be made keeping in view the legal position that when
considering an application under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC , the court can only
look at the averments in the plaint and the accompanying documents. In Tilak Raj Bhagat vs. Ranjit Kaur (supra) this court held as follows:- To the same effect are the judgements of the Division Bench of this
Court in the case of Indian City Properties Ltd. Vs. Vimla Singh 198(2013)
DLT 432 and in the case of Inspiration Clothes & U vs. Collby
International Ltd. , 88(2000) DLT 769. 16. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Hardesh Ores Pvt. Ltd v.
M/s Hede and Company 2007 (7) SCALE 348, noted as follows: 17. I may now go to the facts of this case. In the present case, a perusal of CS(OS) No.509/ 2011 Page 11 of 20 the plaint will show that the plaintiff has sought the following reliefs:- 18. Reference may be had to the averments in the plaint. In para 9 and 10,
it is categorically stated that a fraud has taken place and defendant No. 2 has
played a fraud to try to usurp the flat of the plaintiff. It is further stated that
when the fraud came to light, the plaintiff got cancelled the deed of attorney
along with other documents which were got signed fraudulently in the
absence of the plaintiff‟s husband. Para 10 of the plaint reads as follows: 19. In para 12 of the plaint, the plaintiff claims that defendant No.1-DDA
was informed by the plaintiff through a letter dated 31.03.1989 that no other CS(OS) No.509/ 2011 Page 12 of 20 person should get benefit. It is also stated in the plaint that on 30.09.1993 a
letter was sent by the plaintiff to defendant No. 1 enclosing the revocation
deed and photocopy of a complaint filed with the police with a request to
defendant No. 1 to desist from entertaining any claim of any person with
respect to the suit property. It is further averred in para 15 of the plaint that a
legal notice was got served on defendant No. 1. 20. Similarly, in para 20 of the plaint, it is stated that the defendants in
collusion and connivance with each other got forged further documents
showing that the plaintiff had sold the flat to defendant No.2 by the forged
documents, i.e., GPA and Agreement to Sell and that defendant No.2 had
then given the GPA to defendant No.3. It is further stated that subsequently
the plaintiff came to know from the CIC that defendant No.3 has sold the
flat to defendant No.4 and that defendant No.4 has got the said flat free hold
through execution of a conveyance deed from defendant No.1 on the basis of
the said forged documents. 21. Similarly the relevant portion of para 35 relating to cause of action
reads as under:- 22. Hence, as per the plaint, the plaintiff had knowledge about the so
called fraud done by defendant No. 2 in 1993 or thereabouts inasmuch as
she has written communication/sent legal notice to the said effect to DDA. 23. A perusal may now be had to some of the documents filed by the
plaintiff along with the plaint. A reference may be had to the legal notice
sent by the plaintiff to defendant No. 1 copy of which is filed by the
plaintiff. A perusal of the relevant portion of the legal notice will indicate
that the plaintiff had informed defendant No. 1 in 1993 that power of
attorney executed in favour of defendant No. 1 stands cancelled. Relevant
portion of para 5 of the legal notice reads as follows:- Hence the plaintiff knew about the acts done by defendant No. 2 on
19.07.1993. 24. Reference may be had to letter filed by the plaintiff dated 16.08.1995
written by DDA to the plaintiff informing her about an application from Sh.
Tajender Singh Gujral, defendant No. 3. Relevant portion of the said letter
reads as follows:- Hence in August, 1995 the plaintiff was aware that defendant No. 2
had sold the flat in question to defendant No. 3. 25. Reference may be had to letter dated 13.06.1996 written by DDA to
the plaintiff and filed by the plaintiff, relevant portion of which reads as
follows:- 26. The averments in the plaint and the accompanying documents show
that the legal rights of the plaintiff to the flat in question had been infringed
and violated by defendants No. 2 and 3 as far back in 1993-1996. Plaintiff
had knowledge that defendant No. 2 is claiming to be the owner and has
taken possession of the flat from DDA and has sold the flat to defendant No. CS(OS) No.509/ 2011 Page 15 of 20 3 in 1993-1996. She had knowledge that defendant No. 3 is seeking to
convert the property into freehold in his favour. All these facts are clearly
hostile and destructive of the rights that the plaintiff may claim on the suit
property. Despite due knowledge of the plaintiff of these facts the plaintiff
has failed to take steps to defend her title. These events took place in 1993 to
1995. The suit is filed in 2011. 27. Reference may be had to the judgment of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court
in the case of Daya Singh vs. Gurdev Singh , AIR 2010 SC 3240. In this
case, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court approved the reliance of the learned
counsel for the plaintiff on earlier judgments of the Privy Council and the
Supreme Court relevant portion of which reads as follows:- 8. A similar view was reiterated in the case of C.
 Mohammad Yunus v. Syed Unnissa and Ors . MANU/SC/0359/1961 : AIR 1961 SC 808 in which this Court
 observed: 9. In the case of C. Mohammad Yunus (supra), this Court
 held that the cause of action for the purposes of Article 58 of
 the Act accrues only when the right asserted in the suit is
 infringed or there is atleast a clear and unequivocal threat to
 infringe that right. Therefore, the mere existence of an adverse
 entry into the revenue record cannot give rise to cause of
 action." Hence while computing limitation for a suit for declaration, the
plaintiff has to assert a right and there has to be infringement of the said
right or a threat to infringe that right by the defendant. In the present case,
the plaintiff has asserted her rights in the suit property claiming that
defendants No. 2 and 3 are threatening her rights. Admittedly, defendants
No. 2 and 3 have infringed her rights. All this has taken place in 1993-1996. 28. A bare reading of the plaint and the accompany documents shows that
the suit is barred by Section 3 of the Limitation Act. In view of the above, I
hold that the present claim of the plaintiff on the face of it is barred by
limitation. 29. One may also keep in mind that the only Decree of Declaration sought
by the plaintiff in the plaint pertains to a declaration that letter dated
30.03.1993 by which possession of the suit property was handed over to
defendants No. 2 and 3 and subsequent documents be declared as illegal. In
the plaint, the plaintiff admits existence of various other documents like
alleged forged GPA, agreement to sell in favour of defendant No. 2 and also CS(OS) No.509/ 2011 Page 17 of 20 execution and registration of conveyance deed by DDA in favour of
defendant No. 4. Yet the plaintiff seeks no relief in the present suit
regarding the said documents, which documents are hostile to the alleged
title of the plaintiff. 30. Reference may also be had to the judgment of Andhra Pradesh High
Court in the case of Sannidhi Ratnavathi v. Arava Narsimhamurthy and
Anr. AIR 2004 AP 29. The Andhra Pradesh High Court held in the facts of
that case that as the plaintiff has lost title and interest in the suit property, the
plaintiff has to avoid the said transaction by which he lost the title. Unless he
avoids the said transaction in the manner known to law, he cannot become
owner of the said property. He has to ask for specific relief to set aside the
alienation covered by the sale deed done by his father. 31. In view of the above legal position even otherwise the present suit is
liable to the dismissed. 32. Reference may also be had to the judgment of the Supreme Court in
the case of N.V. Srinivasa Murthy and Ors. v. Mariyamma (dead) and Ors.
AIR 2005 SC 2897. This matter pertains to an application under Order 7
Rule 11 CPC . While considering the said application, the Hon'ble Supreme
Court held as follows: 33. Even otherwise, a reading of the plaint would show that it is
manifestly a vexatious plaint. The plaintiff has simply attempted to draft the
plaint in manner to claim a fraud has been played upon her and the real
cause of action has been camouflaged. It is quite clear that the present plaint
is flagrant misuse of law. A plain reading of the plaint makes it clear that the
same is vexatious and meritless. The plaint and the accompanying
documents clearly show that in the period from 1993 to 1996 plaintiff had
full knowledge about the flat in question having been taken over by
defendant No.2 and having been sold to defendant No.3. She has chosen not
to take any step at that stage but has woken up almost 15-16 years later to
file the present suit claiming declaration, possession and injunction. The
plaint stresses on the communications received from DDA in 2009 to 2010,
trying to camouflage the real issues i.e. documents allegedly executed by the
plaintiff in favour of defendant No. 2 and by DDA in favour of defendant
No. 4. 34. There is clearly merit in the application of defendant No.4. The
application is allowed. CS(OS) 509/2011
 In view of the above orders passed in IA No. 5642/2011 under Order
7 Rule 11 CPC , the suit is dismissed as barred by limitation. All other
pending applications also stand disposed of. JAYANT NATH, J
OCTOBER 11, 2013
Rb/'raj' CS(OS) No.509/ 2011 Page 20 of 20