The petitioners have challenged their

conviction and sentence ordered by the I Addl.

Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Bangalore,

confirmed in the appeals by the Fast Track Court

[Sessions], Bangalore City, by Judgment and Order
 4 Crl.RP 1307/11 C/w. convicting them for the offence punishable under Sections 467 , 468 and 420 r/w. 511 IPC and under Section 120-B IPC. 2. The facts relevant for the purpose of

these appeals are as under: 3. I have heard learned counsel for the

petitioners and also learned High Court Government

Pleader. 4. The point that arises for my

consideration is; Whether the Courts below committed
 an error and illegality in convicting
 the petitioners? 5. Learned counsel for the petitioners

would submit that so far as accused 1 and 2

[petitioners in Crl.RP No.1307/11] are concerned,

he submits that there is no evidence that they

produced the fake bank guarantees with the KHB and

none of the witnesses have stated about the

accused having produced them. In the
 8 Crl.RP 1307/11 C/w. circumstances, he submits that in the absence of

any link with the said bank guarantees and the

crime said to have been committed, the conviction

is both erroneous and illegal. So far as the

other revision petitions are concerned, learned

counsel submits that the conduct of the

Investigating Officer in securing the signatures

of accused 7 and 8 is unconstitutional and such

signatures cannot be obtained for the purpose of

comparison. He submits that as the evidence of

P.W.7-the hand-writing expert is based on such

signatures of the accused, his evidence cannot be

admitted in the evidence. He submits that there

is no nexus between the alleged bank guarantees

i.e., accused 1 and 2 and alleged accused 7 and 8.

On these grounds, they have sought for setting

aside the conviction and sentence ordered by the

Courts below. 9 Crl.RP 1307/11 C/w. On the other hand, learned High Court

Government Pleader supports the Judgment and Order

of the Courts below and submits that the evidence

of P.Ws.1 to 3 i.e., the Account Officer, Accounts

Superintendent and the Accounts Officer, KHB and

the Officers of the KHB i.e., P.Ws.4 and 5 would

clearly indicate that accused 1 and 2 who produced

the fake bank guarantees and the evidence of P.W.7

reveals that accused Nos.7 and 8 created the fake

bank guarantees and therefore, he submits that the

Courts below were justified in awarding conviction

and sentence. 6. The scrutiny of the evidence reveals that

Ex.P2 is the covering letter, which is produced

with the bank guarantee-Ex.P3 in respect of the 1st

accused and Ex.P5 is the covering letter, which is

produced with the bank guarantee-Ex.P6 in respect

of the 2nd accused, which have been collected by

the Investigating Officer in the course of the
 10 Crl.RP 1307/11 C/w. investigation. Accused 1 and 2 in the cross-

examination have denied they having produced these

2 bank guarantees to the KHB authorities. Before

registration of the crime, a letter was addressed

by the KHB authorities calling upon accused 1 to 4

to offer explanation for production of the fake

bank guarantees. Accused 1 and 4 said to have

replied the said notice. The reply of accused

No.4 is at Ex.P20. In the said reply-Ex.P20, it

has been stated that the said bank guarantees were

given by Karthikeyan stating that he has

approached the bank authorities and secured the

bank guarantees. He pleads ignorance about the

bank guarantees being fake and he having produced

them with the KHB authorities. Now scrutinizing the evidence of the

prosecution witnesses, P.W.1 is the Accounts

officer of the KHB and it is relevant to note that

he has not been subjected to cross-examination. 11 Crl.RP 1307/11 C/w. After the chief-examination was over, though the

matter was posted on many other occasions, he was

not produced for cross-examination. In the

absence of cross-examination, the evidence of

P.W.1 cannot be accepted in law. 7. P.W.2 is the Official of the KHB and

though he states that Exs.P1 to 16 are the

documents, which have been produced in the

investigation, he is not able to say as to whether

all these documents contained the signatures of

the accused. Though Exs.P5 and 9 are the covering

letters said to have contained the signatures of

accused 2 and 3 respectively, none of the

witnesses examined by the prosecution have

identified the signatures and P.W.2 does not even

refer to the signatures of the accused to these

covering letters. These bank guarantees [Exs.P3

and 6] were not personally given to these

witnesses i.e., P.Ws.1 and 2. None of these two
 12 Crl.RP 1307/11 C/w. witnesses state that the bank guarantees were

produced by accused Nos.1 and 2. 8. P.W.3 is also an official of the KHB and

it is he, who has filed the complaint to the

Police. He was an accounts officer with the KHB

at the time when the complaint was filed. The

scrutiny of the evidence of these witnesses also

does not reveal identity of the signatures of the

accused on the bank guarantees or the covering

letters. He states that he cannot say as to which

are the signatures of the accused on the documents

admitted in the evidence. So also, he does not

say that it is the accused, who gave the bank

guarantees to him. The bank guarantees were not

personally handed over to P.W.3. P.W.4 does not have the personal knowledge

about the documents which were admitted in the

evidence nor he had any acquaintance with the
 13 Crl.RP 1307/11 C/w. accused and none of the accused appeared before

him for production of the bank guarantees. 9. P.W.5 was the Commissioner of the KHB at

the time of the incident and he speaks to the

evidence on the basis of the documents produced.

He also did not have acquaintance with the

accused. He states about the notices having been

issued by the KHB to the accused and speaks about

the reply by accused 1 and 4. As stated above, so

far as Ex.P20 is concerned, it is a reply of the

4th accused, wherein he does not admit the

knowledge of the bank guarantees having been fake

documents. Therefore, the evidence of P.W.5-the

Chairman of the KHB is also of no help to the

prosecution. The scrutiny of his evidence reveal

that he is a hearsay witness and he does not have

personal knowledge of the facts relating to the

crime or the incident. 14 Crl.RP 1307/11 C/w. So, it is only the evidence of P.Ws.1 to 6,

which are relied by the prosecution so far as the

part of accused 1 and 2 are concerned. None of

the aforesaid witnesses speak about accused 1 and

2 having produced bank guarantees-Exs.P3 and 6 nor

it has proved the fact that covering letters-

Exs.P5 and 9 are signed by 2nd and 3rd accused

respectively. 10. The 7th and 8th accused are the

petitioners in Crl.RP No.267/2012. Accused No.7

is the Special Assistant and accused No.8 is also

the Assistant Bank Employee of the UCO Bank. It

is the case of the prosecution that it is the 7th

and 8th accused who created the fake bank

guarantees particularly, Exs.P3 and 6 and

gave the said fake bank guarantees to the other

accused, who are said to have given them to the

KHB. The only evidence that is available against

the 7th and 8th accused is in the nature of the
 15 Crl.RP 1307/11 C/w. experts opinion and the hand-writing expert having

been examined as P.W.7. It is the case of the

prosecution that during the investigation the

Investigating Officer obtained the admitted

signatures of 7th and 8th accused and these

signatures were sent for the opinion of P.W.7-the

expert along with the signatures on the fake bank

guarantees. P.W.7 has compared the disputed

signatures and also the admitted signatures

obtained by the Investigating Officer and on the

face of this comparison, he has opined that the

signatures on the disputed documents and the

admitted signatures are of the same hand and they

are similar writings. 11. So far as taking the specimen signatures

of the accused, during the course of the

investigation, learned counsel for the petitioners

have placed reliance on the decision rendered in

Crl.A. No.804/2001 dated May 25, 2012 wherein, the
 16 Crl.RP 1307/11 C/w. Full Bench of the High Court of Dehli had an

occasion to observe that obtaining of the

signature of the accused and the admitted

signature for the purpose of comparison of the

signatures on the disputed documents. The High

Court on consideration of the provisions of the

Indian Constitution, particularly, Article 21 , was

of the opinion that the Investigating Officer had

no authority to take the signature of the accused

for the purpose of comparison. Under the

aforesaid provision, an accused person cannot be

compelled to be a witness against himself. The

High Court of Dehli in the aforesaid matter had

occasioned to consider even the provisions of

identification of Prisoners Act 1920; wherein a

specific provision was made with regard to

measurement of the accused and the manner in which

the measurement was to be taken. It was in the

presence of the Magistrate, the said things should

be done. Taking into consideration the aforesaid
 17 Crl.RP 1307/11 C/w. provision of the identification of the Prisoners

Act, 1920 and Article 20(3) of the Constitution,

the High Court held that the said signatures of

the accused cannot be taken in the absence of any

provision in the statute. Nowhere, the

Investigating Officer has been conferred with the

authority to obtain the signature of the accused

and it has been held that any evidence collected

by following Article 20(3) of the Constitution, it

would be inadmissible. 12. It is no-doubt true that P.W.7-the

expert submitted an opinion on the basis of the

disputed signatures and the admitted signatures of

the accused, after comparison. This opinion

cannot be said as evidence in view of Full Bench

Judgment of the Delhi High Court. Hence, this

evidence was rejected as inadmissible. What

remains on record would be the evidence of P.W.8,

the employee of the UCO Bank. He does not say
 18 Crl.RP 1307/11 C/w. anything with regard to part of 7th and 8th

accused. P.Ws.8 and 9 are the bank officials,

they do not speak to the part of any of the

accused not even 7th and 8th accused. So, the

scrutiny of the evidence adduced by the

prosecution would reveal that there is no

concoction between the crime and the accused. 13. It is necessary for the prosecution to

adduce the evidence of those who have got personal

knowledge with regard to production of the bank

guarantees and so also prove that it is the 7th and

8th accused who are responsible for creation of the

fake bank guarantees. As the prosecution has

failed to discharge the duty by placing acceptable

material to convict the accused, the finding of

the trial Court is erroneous and illegal. 14. Though this is a revision petition,

there is an error apparent on the face of the

record. Inadmissible evidence has been accepted
 19 Crl.RP 1307/11 C/w. by the Courts below and such evidence is relied

upon for awarding conviction. This is not

permissible in law. Hence, the point is answered

in the affirmative. Consequently, the revision petitions are

allowed. The conviction of the petitioners and

the sentence thereon passed in C.C. No.2449/1993

confirmed in Crl.A. Nos.535, 536 and 543/2011 is

set aside. They are acquitted of the charges.

Fine if any deposited, shall be refunded. Anyhow

the Judgment and Order of acquittal shall not come

in the way of the UCO Bank either to initiate or

continue disciplinary proceedings against the

petitioners i.e., accused Nos.7 and 8 respectively

in Crl.R.P. No.267/2012. Sd/- JUDGE. Ksm*