1. The instant petition has been filed by the petitioner namely Hilal

 Rather through his wife Shazia Murtaza for grant of bail in case FIR

 No. RC0042020A0002 dated 04.03.2020 under Sections 5(1) (d) read

 with Section 5 (2) of the J&K Prevention of Corruption Act Svt. 2006

 and under Sections120-B, 409,420 and 471 of RPC and under challan

 bearing No. Nil titled as CBI Vs. Hilal Ahmed Rather & Ors pending

 before the court of Special Judge Anti-Corruption CBI cases, Jammu. 2. Before dealing with the instant petition it would be appropriate to

 briefly delineate some important facts here under: - Page 2 of 22 Bail App No. 77/2020 2.4. Petitioner filed a bail application before the Trial court

 on16.01.2020, which came to be dismissed vide order

 dated 04.02.2020 where after the petitioner moved an

 application for interim bail on account of his ailing health

 and also outbreak of COVID-19 before the Trial court

 on 06.03.2020 which also is dismissed vide order dated

 31.03.2020. Bail App No. 77/2020 2.5. The petitioner after dismissal of interim bail application

 by the Trial court vide order dated 31.03.2020 filed an

 application before this court seeking interim bail which

 too is dismissed on 24.04.2020 where after the main bail

 application filed on 06.03.2020 before the Trial court by

 the petitioner is dismissed on 14.05.2020 by the Trial

 court. 2.6. Upon dismissal of the bail application supra vide order

 dated 14.05.2020 by the Trial court, petitioner filed the

 instant bail application. Petitioners contentions/ grounds: 3. Petitioner in the petition contends that the ACB lodged the FIR and

 initiated investigation without jurisdiction and authority of law

 inasmuch as the final report presented is illegal and no charges could

 be framed against the petitioner under the provisions of PC Act . 4. Petitioner further contends in the petition that the Trial court while

 dismissing his bail application vide order dated 14.05.2020 has

 wrongly held the petitioner to be the mastermind in the alleged scam

 being baseless and without any iota of truth and also being factually

 incorrect, in that, the term loan to the tune of Rs. 7427.22 Crores (out

 of which 8 Crores were kept by the bank for payment of interest pre

 moratorium period after sanctioning of loan in the month of

 September 2012),came to be obtained by the firm from the Jammu

 and Kashmir Bank Branch University Campus, Jammu, by M/s

 Paradise Avenue partnership concern consisting of partners namely Page 4 of 22 Bail App No. 77/2020 the petitioner, M/s Oracle Constructions through its partners namely

 Dr. Rizwan Rahim Dar, Ghulam Mohd Bhat, Daljeett Wadhera and

 Deepshikha Jamwal, for raising the construction of flats and that the

 said term loan was approved by the bank authorities after completing

 all necessary requisite formalities inasmuch as after satisfying

 themselves about viability of the project. 5. Petitioner next contends that the entire loan amount availed from the

 bank by the firm came to be sanctioned by the bank from time to time

 validly as per requirement/ schedule and has been utilized for the

 construction of the flats/ projects. 6. Petitioner further contends that though FIR was registered on

 27.06.2019, the petitioner was not arrested by the investigating agency

 and petitioner co-operated with the investigation inasmuch as

 produced all documents asked by the investigating agency. 7. Petitioner next contends that assuming that there has been breach of

 agreement between the lender bank and borrower firm yet same would

 not have attracted criminal prosecution. 8. Petitioner next contends that the firm repaid an amount of Rs. 33,58,34,272/= to the bank even during the moratorium period and

 that yet the bank invoked proceedings under SARFAESI Act against

 the firm and sealed the project while taking constructive possession

 thereof in terms of Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act. 9. Petitioner urges that even though the alleged offence except 409 IPC carry maximum punishment upto 7 years yet Section 409 IPC was

 incorporated in the FIR by the respondents which is not even made Page 5 of 22 Bail App No. 77/2020 out and has been incorporated to deprive the petitioner of his rights

 and liberty. 10. Petitioner contends that the is entitled to bail after completion of

 investigation and filing of charge sheet. Petitioner states to be

 suffering from various ailments having undergone surgeries besides

 suffering from Liver infection and respiratory problems and thus, on

 account of his health issue is entitled to bail more particularly on

 account of outbreak of COVID-19 and overcrowding in jails. 11. Petitioner contends that admittedly the final report has been filed

 before the Trial court and that the object of bail in first place is to

 secure attendance of the accused in the trial thus, applicant/petitioner

 is entitled to grant of bail. Respondents contentions/grounds: 12. The case of the respondents/prosecution as stated in their objections

 hinges on the premise that the petitioner has committed economic

 offences and that the petitioner misappropriated the loan amount

 availed from the bank and utilized the same for his personal use in

 gross violation of terms and conditions of the letter of sanction of

 loan. 13. Respondents contend that the petitioner committed the economic

 offences while hatching a conspiracy in league and connivance with

 the officials of the bank namely Iqbal Singh the then branch head of

 the J&K Bank, New University Campus, branch Jammu, and Arun

 Kapoor the then branch head of the J&K Bank, New University

 Campus branch Jammu, which bank officers committed acts of Page 6 of 22 Bail App No. 77/2020 omission and commission in gross violation of credit policy and

 relevant guidelines of the bank. 14. In nutshell the case setup by the respondent/prosecution is that the

 petitioner being a mastermind hatched a criminal conspiracy along

 with the bank officers namely Iqbal Singh and Arun Kapoor in order

 to cheat the bank while obtaining term loan from the bank diverted

 and utilized the same illegally in violation of terms and conditions for

 which further investigation in the matter is under way. 15. Respondents while seeking dismissal of the bail application in their

 objections have referred to Apex court judgement titled as " CBI Vs.

 Ramesh Gelli " passed in Cr. Appeal No. 1077 -1081 of 2013 and

 WP(Crl) No. 167 of 2015, case tilted as " State of Uttar Pradesh Vs.

 Anil Kumar Sharma " 2015 (3) SCC (Crl) page 368 as also " State of

 Bihar Vs. Amit Kumar " and " Y. S.Jagan Mohan Reddy Vs. CBI ". 16. Heard learned counsel for the parties. 17. The settled position of law as unfolded and delineated by the Apex

 court of the Country in a catena of judgements on the subject relating

 to the grant of bail, isthat there is no straight jacket formula or settled

 rules for deciding the question of "bail or jail" in non-bailable

 offences. It is a discretionary relief and discretion has to be exercised

 in a judicious manner. The court has to utilize the discretion as per

 settled law and the principles as laid down by the Code of Criminal

 Procedure and various judicial decisions. It cannot be exercised as a

 matter of course but has to be handled on the edifice of the judicial

 gravity. Bail App No. 77/2020 Further qua law of bails a reference to the principle of

 law laid down in the judgment of the Apex court titled as " Anil

 Kumar Yadav Vs. State (NCT of Delhi and Anr. ) reported

 in 2018 (12) SCC 129"would be relevant and germane wherein

 at Para15 following has been held: - 18. The object of grant of bail as it extends back beyond memory is to

 secure the attendance and appearance of the accused person at the

 trial. The law suggests that the purposes of bail is neither punitive nor

 preventive. It (the law) divulges and imparts that the deprivation of

 bail must be considered as a punishment, unless it is required to

 ensure that an accused person will stand his trial when called upon.

 The maxim and the axiom of the law of the bails is that courts owe

 more than verbal respect to the principle that punishment begins after

 conviction and that every person is deemed to be innocent until duly

 tried and found guilty. It has been consistant view of the Apex court

 that detention in custody pending completion of trial could be a cause

 of great hardship and although necessity may demand that some un-

 convicted person should be held in custody pending trial to secure the

 attendance at the trial, but in such case, "necessity" is the baseline. Page 8 of 22 Bail App No. 77/2020 19. The Law laid down in Criminal Appeal No. 742 of 2020 (arising out

 of SLP (Crl) 5598 of 2020 bearing title" Arnab Manoranjan

 Goswami Vs. the State of Maharashtra and Ors "with Criminal

 Appeal No. 743 of 2020 (arising out of SLP (Crl) No. 5599 of

 2020and with Criminal Appeal No. 744 of 2020 (arising out of SLP

 (Crl) No. 5600 of 2020 is woven in elegance and eloquence. It covers

 the subject for grant of bail from a broader range, the relevant portion

 whereof is extracted here under: - 20. A co-ordinate bench of this court in case titled as " Mehraj-ud-Din

 Nadroo Vs. State of J&K being BA No. 74/2018" decided on

 07.07.2018 after broaching on the subject relating to the law of bails

 as contained and detailed in various judicial pronouncements has held

 that in this Country, it would be quite contrary to the concept of

 personal liberty as enshrined in the constitution that any person should

 be punished in respect of any matter, upon which, he has not been

 convicted or that in any circumstances, he should be deprived of his

 liberty upon only the belief that he will temper with the witness, if left

 at liberty, save in the most extraordinary circumstances. Apart from

 the question of prevention being the object of a refusal of bail, one

 must not lose sight of the fact that any imprisonment before

 conviction has a substantial punitive content and it would be improper

 for any court to refuse bail as a mark of disapproval of former

 conduct whether the accused has been convicted for it or not or to Page 10 of 22 Bail App No. 77/2020 refuse bail to an un-convicted person for the purposes of giving him a

 taste of imprisonment as a lesson. 21. Further it needs to be reminded that the order does not require to be

 padded and loaded with judicial dictums expanded by the Hon‟ble

 Supreme court and various High courts on the matter at hand.

 However, the law laid down by the Supreme court in case of "Data

 Ram Singhv/sStateofUttarPradesh&Ors"reportedin2018 (3) SCC

 page 22,encapsulates the concept of bail in a small space and same is

 extracted and reproduced hereunder: 22. The judicial pronouncements cited above are a sequel to the fact that

 the oft repeated and adoled adages, maxims and axioms of the law of

 bails which have influenced the judicial mind since long are" bail and

 not jail" coupled with the presumptions of innocence in favour of a

 person accused of an offence. The other expressions of general

 principles regulating intellection are firstly; that the punishment shall

 begin after the conviction; secondly, that the grant of bail is in the Page 12 of 22 Bail App No. 77/2020 discretion of the court which has to be exercised judiciously; thirdly,

 that the courts while dealing with the bail matters have to adopt a

 liberal approach and so on and so forth. 23. Considering the instant petition on the above scales, the pith and

 substance of the objections of the respondents filed in opposition to

 the bail application is that the release of the petitioner from custody

 will hamper the investigation of the case and that the petitioner will

 tamper with the prosecution evidence in case he is admitted to bail

 and that the offences committed by him (the petitioner) is an

 economic one and is, as such, grave in nature. 24. While considering the instant petition in the backdrop of above

 objections of the respondents it would be quite advantageous to refer

 to the judgement of the Hon‟ble Supreme court titled as " P.

 Chidambaram Vs. Directorate of Enforcement " bearing Criminal

 Appeal No. 1831/2019 (arising out of S.L.P (Criminal) No. 10493 of

 2019 wherein the pros and cons of the entire gamut of controversy has

 been considered and held in Para 21 as follows: 25. Further the dictum of law enunciated in thecase of " Sanjay Chandra

 Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation reported in 2012 (1) SCC has

 also a direct bearing on the instant petition and the relevant excerpts

 thereof are detailed below as contained in Para 43 to 46: Page 14 of 22 Bail App No. 77/2020 sheet. 44. This Court, in State of Kerala Vs. Raneef has stated
(SCC p.789, para 15), "15. In deciding bail applications
an important factor which should certainly be taken into
consideration by the court is the delay in concluding the
trial. Often this takes several years, and if the accused is
denied bail but is ultimately acquitted, who will restore
so many years of his life spent in custody? Is Article 21 of the Constitution, which is the most basic of all the
fundamental rights in our Constitution, not violated in
such a case? Of course this is not the only factor, but it is
certainly one of the important factors in deciding whether
to grant bail. In the present case the respondent has
already spent 66 days in custody (as stated in Para 2 of
his counter-affidavit), and we see no reason why he
should be denied bail. A doctor incarcerated for a long
period may end up like Dr. Manette in Charles Dicken's Page 15 of 22 Bail App No. 77/2020 novelA Tale of Two Cities, who forgot his profession
 and even his name in the Bastille." 45. In Bihar Fodder Scam (Laloo Prasad case), this
 Court, taking into consideration the seriousness of the
 charges alleged and the maximum sentence of
 imprisonment that could be imposed including the fact
 that the appellants were in jail for a period more than six
 months as on the date of passing of the order, was of the
 view that the further detention of the appellants as pre-
 trial prisoners would not serve any purpose. 46. We are conscious of the fact that the accused are
 charged with economic offences of huge magnitude. We
 are also conscious of the fact that the offences alleged, if
 proved, may jeopardize the economy of the country. At
 the same time, we cannot lose sight of the fact that the
 investigating agency has already completed investigation
 and the charge sheet is already filed before the Special
 Judge, CBI, New Delhi. Therefore, their presence in the
 custody may not be necessary for further investigation.
 We are of the view that the appellants are entitled to the
 grant of bail pending trial on stringent conditions in order
 to ally the apprehension expressed by CBI." 26. The law evolved in the above judicial pronouncements makes it

 abundantly and explicitly clear that the rule established by Hon‟ble

 Justice Krishna Iyerthat is "Bail and not Jail" holds good even in

 cases relating to the commission of economic offences with a note of

 caution that the facts and circumstances of each case have to be tested

 on the bulwark of the principles laid down by the Apex court and the

 High courts in the matter relating to grant or refusal of bail. These

 judgements do enunciate and substantiate that the accused cannot be Page 16 of 22 Bail App No. 77/2020 held in a leash or allowed to languish in jail till infinity particularly

 when his presence is neither required during the investigation of the

 case nor will the investigation suffer in case the discretion of grant of

 bail is exercised in his favour. These judgements also elucidate and

 enunciate that the fundamental principle of criminal justice system is

 that a person cannot be deprived of his liberty guaranteed by Article

 21 of the Constitution except for a distinct breach of law. These

 further recapitulate that there is no reason why a person should be

 imprisoned during the period of his trial. 27. Article 21 of the Constitution has been interpreted by the courts to

 mean and convey that right to live a life with dignity and decency is a

 fundamental right. It has been held that the duration of custody which

 the accused has undertaken in a particular case is a relevant factor to

 which the court should be cognizant, conscious and attentive while

 considering the grant of bail. 28. Looking at the instant case from the above angle and obliquity the

 accused has been in custody for the last more than 10 months by now

 and to be specific he has been arrested on 16.01.2020 as is manifest

 from the perusal of the affidavit dated 28.10.2020 filed by the CBI.

 The said affidavit also bears testimony to the fact that prior to his

 arrest, the petitioner was questioned by the investigating agency on

 19.07.2019, 16.08.2019, 26.08.2019, 30.09.2019, 07.11.2019,

 20.11.2019, 21.11.2019,26.11.2019, 16.12.2019, 23.12.2019,

 24.12.2019, 26.12.2019, 28.12.2019,06.01.2020, 07.01.2020 and

 08.01.2020. The petitioner has been interrogated by the investigating

 agency on 16.01.2020, 17.01.2020, 18.01.2020 and 20.01.2020 during Page 17 of 22 Bail App No. 77/2020 police remand. The petitioner suffered the bouts of illness while in

 custody as is reflected in the same affidavit. The petitioner has never

 been interrogated after 20.01.2020 meaning thereby that he suffered

 custody ceaselessly when he is not supposed to be in prison as nothing

 substantial has to be done in the case that would warrant or justify his

 custody in jail. The charge sheet i.e. report in terms of Section 173 CrPC has also been filed against the petitioner in addition to others

 who admittedly and for unknown reasons have never been arrested by

 the investigating agency despite alleged to be co-conspirators of the

 petitioner and even not reported to have been either absconding or

 missing by the respondents. 29. Taking into consideration these facets of the case, the law laid down

 in " Sanjay Chandra 's" case supra, more particularly Para 46 of the

 judgement which is repeated and reiterated here lays down that

 although the accused are charged with economic offences of huge

 magnitude and these offences, if approved, may jeopardize the

 economy of the Country, yet at the same time we cannot lose sight of

 the fact that the investigating agency has already completed the

 investigation and the charge sheet is already filed before the court,

 therefore, the presence of the accused in custody may not be necessary

 for further investigation and the appellants are entitled to the grant of

 bail. This judgement of law squarely covers the facts and

 circumstances of the instant case and on the face of it, the petitioner

 deserves to be admitted to bail. 30. The contention of the prosecution that the accused, if admitted to bail

 will temper with the prosecution evidence is a spurious and a strained Page 18 of 22 Bail App No. 77/2020 argument which is not supported by any evidence. The prosecution

case primarily revolves on the documentary evidence to which the

accused cannot be supposed to have any access and therefore, the

question of winning over the witnesses by the petitioner or by any one

on his behalf pales into insignificance. Even otherwise also this

contention of the prosecution is an argument just for the heck of it as

it is not supported by any material evidence. This plea has been raised

to simply thwart the course of justice. There has been no allegation by

the prosecution about this eventuality till such time that the bail

applications were filed whether in this court or any other forum. The

prosecution has not laid its hands on any direct or indirect evidence

against the petitioner that would depict and portray that he did any act

that had the temerity of influencing the witnesses. The law laid down

in " P. Chidambaram 's" case supra details it in conscious terms that

in the absence of any contemporaneous material, no weight could be

attached to the allegation that the appellant has been influencing the

witnesses by approaching the witnesses. The conclusion of learned

single judge".....that it cannot be ruled out that the petitioner will not

influence the witnesses directly or indirectly...." is not substantiated

by any materials and is only an generalized apprehension and appears

to be speculative. Mere averment that appellant approached the

witnesses and the assertion that the appellant would further pressurize

the witnesses, without any material basis cannot be the reason to deny

regular bail to the appellant more so, when the appellant has been in

custody for nearly 2 months, co-operated with the investigating

agency and the charge sheet is also filed. The contention of the Page 19 of 22 Bail App No. 77/2020 prosecution on this count is, therefore, frivolous and does not have

 any semblance of fairness attached to it. 31. Much ado about nothing has been made by the learned counsel for the

 respondents by referring to and relying on the evidence gathered

 during the investigation to canvass that the petitioner has committed

 an economic offence and therefore, he cannot be admitted to bail. This

 argument is spurious and a specious one on the ground that ultimately

 the evidence collected by the investigating agency is in the matter of

 allegations leveled against the petitioner which have to be established

 during the course of the trial in which the petitioner has to be given a

 fair opportunity of putting forward his case where after a definite

 conclusion can be arrived. 32. As has been noticed above and at the cost of risking repetition, an

 elaborate documentation of merits of the case has not to be undertaken

 at the stage of granting or refusing of bail. The merits and de-merits of

 case cannot be discussed lest it may prejudice the accused. This

 proposition of law is fortified by " P. Chidambaram 's" case supra, as

 well wherein at Para 24 following has been noticed: - 33. Even otherwise as well if the statements on record and the material

 collected during the course of investigation are looked into still the

 guilt of accused/petitioner will held to be established and proved in

 the trial and the presumption of law that accused is an innocent till

 such time that he is found guilty does hold good even in case

 involving the commission of economic offences. This reasoning can

 be well referred and relied upon here as well as is detailed out in

 hereinabove at Para 21 of "P. Chidambaram 's case supra. 34. To dispel the arguments that bail can be allowed even in economic

 offences learned counsel representing the CBI has laid much emphasis

 on the case titled as " Bihar Vs. Amit Kumar ", " Y. S. Jagan Mohan

 Reddy Vs. CBI " and " NinnaGadda Prasad Vs. CBI ". These

 judgements do laid down the propositions of law that socio economic Page 21 of 22 Bail App No. 77/2020 offences constitute a class apart and need to be visited with different

 approach in the matter of grant of bail. 35. Be that as it may, these judgements supra do not affirm or articulate

 that there is a legal bar, impedance or a clog on the right of the

 accused to seek bail in such case, these pronouncements do not

 provide that a person or accused of such offences shall be incarcerated

 till the day of resurrection nor do these contemplate and visualize that

 the age old adages as these relate to the law of bails or the principles

 laid down for grant of bail should be ignored or even not looked into.

 These authorities do not lay down anywhere that the accused should

 be bolted with shackles till the date of conclusion of the trial. 36. Deprivation of liberty tentamounts to punishment. The consequences

 of pre trial detention are grave. Prison hell destroys the manifestation

 of feelings and sensibility of a person. The petitioner has been

 languishing in jail for the last more than 10 months by now and he

 cannot be hampered from preparing for his defence which is of an

 essence in a criminal trial. The discretion for grant of bail has to be

 exercised on the well established propositions and principles laid

 down from time to time by the Apex court. Sentiments, strain, temper

 and passion do not have any role to play in exercising the discretion

 for grant of bail bestowed unto the courts. 37. In view of preceding analysis the petitioner is held entitled to bail and

 consequently is admitted to bail subject to following conditions: - 38. Bail application is disposed of. Javed Iqbal Wani
 Judge
 Jammu
 29 /12/2020
 "Ishaq"