Criminal Petition No.9198 of 2022

Order: 2. A case has been registered against the petitioner herein and
others for the offences punishable under Sections 306 , 386 IPC and Section 67A of the Information Technology Act, 2000. 3. The allegations against the petitioner and other accused are
that they, being the loan app organizers, used to harass the deceased
to repay the loan amount, threatened him with dire consequences
that they would send his morphed nude photos to all his contacts and
defame him in the society and harassed him mentally, even he paid
much more amount than the loan app amount. Due to their
unbearable harassment, on 13.10.2022, the deceased committed
suicide by hanging to the roof top iron rod with a chunni. 4. Heard. Perused the record. 5. The accusation against the petitioner herein is that some
messages were received from the phone numbers of the accused to
the phone of the deceased threatening him to repay the loan amount,
and because of the same, the deceased had committed suicide. The
petitioner was arrested on 27.10.2022 and since then he is in judicial
remand. Petitioner herein is A-17 in the above crime. Learned
Assistant Public Prosecutor submitted that as many as 17 witnesses
were examined in the present case and RFSL report is awaited and 2 the accused Nos.1 to 9 are absconding and they are to be
apprehended by the police. Since the petitioner is in jail since more
than 30 days, this Court is inclined to grant bail to the petitioner. 6. Accordingly, the Criminal Petition is allowed. The petitioner
herein shall be released on bail on his executing a personal bond for a
sum of Rs.10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand only) with two sureties for
the like sum each to the satisfaction of the learned IV Additional Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate, Vijayawada. Petitioner shall appear before
the Station House Officer, Patamata Police Station, Vijayawada City
once in a week i.e., on every Sunday between 10.00 AM and 01.00
PM till filing of the charge sheet. The petitioner shall not directly or
indirectly contact or threaten witnesses and shall not tamper the
evidence and shall co-operate with the investigation. _____________________
 K. SREENIVASA REDDY, J
Dated:29.11.2022
Note: