This appeal is directed against the judgment and order dated May 23, 2003, passed in

the writ application being W.P. No.14823(W) of 2001. By the aforesaid judgment and order the

above writ application was dismissed. The facts of the case in a nutshell, as revealed from the above writ application, were as

follows:- Since we find that the enquiry report under reference was based upon evidences and

the same was backed by reasons, the settled principles of law as decided in the matter of Mr. V.

Bijlani (supra), Sri Sankar Prasad Ghosh(supra) or Anil Kumar(supra) has no manner of

application in this case. Similarly, we find that the order of punishment under reference was a

reasoned order. Therefore, the principles of law as settled in the matters of General Manager,

Laktak Power Station (supra), Biswanath Hazra(supra), H.C. Goel(supra) or Managing

Director, ECIL, Hyderabad (supra) does not help the appellant in any way. We find that in this

case the appellate authority applied his mind to give brief reasons to affirm the order of

punishment and as such the decisions of Junas Kerketta(supra), Indian Oil Corporation

Limited (supra) does not help the appellant. We have examined the decision making process of

the learned Single Judge with reference to the enquiry proceeding order of punishment and the

order of the appellate authority. Therefore, the decision of Whirlpool Corporation (supra) and

M/s. Popcorn Entertainment (supra) does not come in aid of the appellant to get any relief from

this court. Therefore, we are unable to record our concurrence with the submission of the

appellant. The judgment and order under appeal, in our view, cannot be said to be faulted in any

way whatsoever. The appeal, therefore, fails and is dismissed. There will be, however, no order as to costs. Urgent xerox certified copy of this judgment, if applied for, be given to the

parties, as expeditiously as possible, upon compliance with the necessary

formalities in this regard. I agree. ( Debi Prasad Sengupta, J.)

 (Debasish Kar Gupta, J.)