in American Communications Assn. v. Douds [94 L Ed 925 : 339
US 382 (1950)] are apposite : (L Ed p. 967)

 "... Thought control is a copyright of totalitarianism,
 and we have no claim to it. It is not the function of our
 Government to keep the citizen from falling into error; it is
 the function of the citizen to keep the Government from
 falling into error. We could justify any censorship only when
 the censors are better shielded against error than the
 censored." B. Article 19(2) 23. One challenge to Section 66-A made by the
petitioners' counsel is that the offence created by the said
section has no proximate relation with any of the eight subject-
matters contained in Article 19(2). We may incidentally mention
that the State has claimed that the said section can be
supported under the heads of public order, defamation,
incitement to an offence and decency or morality. 24. Under our constitutional scheme, as stated earlier, it
is not open to the State to curtail freedom of speech to promote
the general public interest. In Sakal Papers (P) Ltd. v. Union of
India [(1962) 3 SCR 842 : AIR 1962 SC 305] , this Court said : 25. Before we come to each of these expressions, we
must understand what is meant by the expression "in the
interests of". In Supt., Central Prison v. Ram Manohar
Lohia [Supt., Central Prison v. Ram Manohar Lohia , (1960) 2
SCR 821 : AIR 1960 SC 633 : 1960 Cri LJ 1002] , this Court laid
down : (SCR pp. 834-36 : AIR pp. 639-40, paras 12-14)

 "... We do not understand the observations of the
 Chief Justice to mean that any remote or fanciful connection
 between the impugned Act and the public order would be
 sufficient to sustain its validity. The learned Chief Justice
 was only making a distinction between an Act which
 expressly and directly purported to maintain public order
 and one which did not expressly state the said purpose but
 left it to be implied therefrom; and between an Act that
 directly maintained public order and that indirectly brought
 about the same result. The distinction does not ignore the
 necessity for intimate connection between the Act and the
 public order sought to be maintained by the Act. ... The restriction made 'in the interests of public
 order' must also have reasonable relation to the object to
 be achieved i.e. the public order. If the restriction has no
 proximate relationship to the achievement of public order, it
 cannot be said that the restriction is a reasonable restriction 107 within the meaning of the said clause. ... The decision, in
 our view, lays down the correct test. The limitation imposed
 in the interests of public order to be a reasonable
 restriction, should be one which has a proximate connection
 or nexus with public order, but not one far-fetched,
 hypothetical or problematical or too remote in the chain of
 its relation with the public order. ... There is no proximate or even foreseeable
 connection between such instigation and the public order
 sought to be protected under this section. We cannot accept
 the argument of the learned Advocate General that
 instigation of a single individual not to pay tax or dues is a
 spark which may in the long run ignite a revolutionary
 movement destroying public order." (emphasis supplied)

Reasonable restrictions 26. This Court has laid down what "reasonable
restrictions" means in several cases. In Chintaman Rao v. State
of M.P. [Chintaman Rao v. State of M.P., 1950 SCC 695 : 1950
SCR 759 : AIR 1951 SC 118] this Court said : (SCR p. 763 : AIR
p. 119, para 7)

 "The phrase 'reasonable restriction' connotes that
 the limitation imposed on a person in enjoyment of the right
 should not be arbitrary or of an excessive nature, beyond
 what is required in the interests of the public. The word
 'reasonable' implies intelligent care and deliberation, that is,
 the choice of a course which reason dictates. Legislation
 which arbitrarily or excessively invades the right cannot be
 said to contain the quality of reasonableness and unless it
 strikes a proper balance between the freedom guaranteed in Article 19(1)(g) and the social control permitted by clause
 (6) of Article 19 , it must be held to be wanting in that
 quality." 27. In State of Madras v. V.G. Row [State of
Madras v. V.G. Row, (1952) 1 SCC 410 : 1952 SCR 597 : AIR
1952 SC 196 : 1952 Cri LJ 966] , this Court said : (SCR pp.
606-07 : AIR pp. 199-200, para 15)

 "This Court had occasion in Khare case [ N.B.
 Khare v. State of Delhi , 1950 SCR 519 : 1950 SCC 522
 : AIR 1950 SC 211 : (1951) 52 Cri LJ 550] to define 108 the scope of the judicial review under clause (5) of Article 19 where the phrase 'imposing reasonable
 restrictions on the exercise of the right' also occurs
 and four out of the five Judges participating in the
 decision expressed the view (the other Judge leaving
 the question open) that both the substantive and the
 procedural aspects of the impugned restrictive law
 should be examined from the point of view of
 reasonableness; that is to say, the Court should
 consider not only factors such as the duration and the
 extent of the restrictions, but also the circumstances
 under which and the manner in which their imposition
 has been authorised. It is important in this context to
 bear in mind that the test of reasonableness, wherever
 prescribed, should be applied to each individual
 statute impugned and no abstract standard, or general
 pattern of reasonableness can be laid down as
 applicable to all cases. The nature of the right alleged
 to have been infringed, the underlying purpose of the
 restrictions imposed, the extent and urgency of the
 evil sought to be remedied thereby, the disproportion
 of the imposition, the prevailing conditions at the time,
 should all enter into the judicial verdict. In evaluating
 such elusive factors and forming their own conception
 of what is reasonable, in all the circumstances of a
 given case, it is inevitable that the social philosophy
 and the scale of values of the Judges participating in
 the decision should play an important part, and the
 limit to their interference with legislative judgment in
 such cases can only be dictated by their sense of
 responsibility and self-restraint and the sobering
 reflection that the Constitution is meant not only for
 people of their way of thinking but for all, and that the
 majority of the elected representatives of the people
 have, in authorising the imposition of the restrictions,
 considered them to be reasonable." 28. Similarly, in Mohd. Faruk v. State of M.P. [(1969) 1
SCC 853 : (1970) 1 SCR 156] , this Court said : (SCC p. 857,
para 10 : SCR p. 161 E-G)

 "... The Court must in considering the validity of the
 impugned law imposing a prohibition on the carrying on of a 109 business or profession, attempt an evaluation of its direct
 and immediate impact upon the fundamental rights of the
 citizens affected thereby and the larger public interest
 sought to be ensured in the light of the object sought to be
 achieved, the necessity to restrict the citizen's freedom, the
 inherent pernicious nature of the act prohibited or its
 capacity or tendency to be harmful to the general public,
 the possibility of achieving the object by imposing a less
 drastic restraint, and in the absence of exceptional
 situations such as the prevalence of a state of emergency
 national or local--or the necessity to maintain essential
 supplies, or the necessity to stop activities inherently
 dangerous, the existence of a machinery to satisfy the
 administrative authority that no case for imposing the
 restriction is made out or that a less drastic restriction may
 ensure the object intended to be achieved." 29. In N.B. Khare v. State of Delhi [N.B. Khare v. State of
Delhi, 1950 SCR 519 : 1950 SCC 522 : AIR 1950 SC 211 : 30. It was argued by the learned Additional Solicitor
General that a relaxed standard of reasonableness of restriction
should apply regard being had to the fact that the medium of
speech being the internet differs from other mediums on several
grounds. To appreciate the width and scope of his submissions,
we are setting out his written submission verbatim: censorship is possible and each individual is publisher,
printer, producer, director and broadcaster of the content
without any statutory regulation; (iv) In case of print media or medium of television
and films whatever is truly recorded can only be published
or broadcasted/televised/viewed. While in case of an
internet, morphing of images, change of voices and many
other technologically advance methods to create serious
potential social disorder can be applied. (v) By the medium of internet, rumours having a
serious potential of creating a serious social disorder can be
spread to trillions of people without any check which is not
possible in case of other mediums. (vi) In case of mediums like print media, television
and films, it is broadly not possible to invade privacy of
unwilling persons. While in case of an internet, it is very
easy to invade upon the privacy of any individual and
thereby violating his right under Article 21 of the
Constitution of India. (vii) By its very nature, in the mediums like
newspaper, magazine, television or a movie, it is not
possible to sexually harass someone, outrage the modesty
of anyone, use unacceptable filthy language and evoke
communal frenzy which would lead to serious social
disorder. While in the case of an internet, it is easily
possible to do so by a mere click of a button without any
geographical limitations and almost in all cases while
ensuring anonymity of the offender. (viii) By the very nature of the medium, the width
and reach of internet is manifold as against newspaper and
films. The said mediums have inbuilt limitations i.e. a
person will have to buy/borrow a newspaper and/or will
have to go to a theatre to watch a movie. For television also
one needs at least a room where a television is placed and
can only watch those channels which he has subscribed and
that too only at a time where it is being telecast. While in
case of an internet a person abusing the internet, can
commit an offence at any place at the time of his choice and
maintaining his anonymity in almost all cases. (ix) In case of other mediums, it is impossible to
maintain anonymity as a result of which
speech/idea/opinions/films having serious potential of
creating a social disorder never gets generated since its
origin is bound to be known. While in case of an internet
mostly its abuse takes place under the garb of anonymity
which can be unveiled only after thorough investigation. (x) In case of other mediums like newspapers,
television or films, the approach is always institutionalised
approach governed by industry specific ethical norms of self
conduct. Each newspaper/magazine/movie production
house/TV channel will have its own institutionalised policies
in-house which would generally obviate any possibility of
the medium being abused. As against that use of internet is
solely based upon individualistic approach of each individual
without any check, balance or regulatory ethical norms for
exercising freedom of speech and expression under Article
19(1)(a). (xi) In the era limited to print media and
cinematograph; or even in case of publication through
airwaves, the chances of abuse of freedom of expression
was less due to inherent infrastructural and logistical
constraints. In the case of said mediums, it was almost
impossible for an individual to create and publish an abusive
content and make it available to trillions of people.
Whereas, in the present internet age the said infrastructural
and logistical constraints have disappeared as any individual
using even a smart mobile phone or a portable computer
device can create and publish abusive material on its own,
without seeking help of anyone else and make it available to
trillions of people by just one click." 31. As stated, all the above factors may make a
distinction between the print and other media as opposed to the
internet and the legislature may well, therefore, provide for
separate offences so far as free speech over the internet is
concerned. There is, therefore, an intelligible differentia having
a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved--that
there can be creation of offences which are applied to free
speech over the internet alone as opposed to other mediums of
communication. Thus, an Article 14 challenge has been
repelled by us on this ground later in this judgment. But
we do not find anything in the features outlined by the
learned Additional Solicitor General to relax the Court's
scrutiny of the curbing of the content of free speech over
the internet. While it may be possible to narrowly draw a
section creating a new offence, such as Section 69-A for
instance, relatable only to speech over the internet, yet
the validity of such a law will have to be tested on the
touchstone of the tests already indicated above. 32. In fact, this aspect was considered in Ministry of
Information & Broadcasting, Govt. of India v. Cricket Assn. of
Bengal [(1995) 2 SCC 161] in para 37, where the following
question was posed : (SCC p. 208)

 "37. The next question which is required to be
 answered is whether there is any distinction between the
 freedom of the print media and that of the electronic media
 such as radio and television, and if so, whether it
 necessitates more restrictions on the latter media." This question was answered in para 78 thus : (SCC pp. 226-27)

 "78. There is no doubt that since the
 airwaves/frequencies are a public property and are also
 limited, they have to be used in the best interest of the
 society and this can be done either by a central authority by
 establishing its own broadcasting network or regulating the
 grant of licences to other agencies, including the private
 agencies. What is further, the electronic media is the most
 powerful media both because of its audio-visual impact and
 its widest reach covering the section of the society where
 the print media does not reach. The right to use the
 airwaves and the content of the programmes, therefore,
 needs regulation for balancing it and as well as to prevent 113 monopoly of information and views relayed, which is a
potential danger flowing from the concentration of the right
to broadcast/telecast in the hands either of a central agency
or of few private affluent broadcasters. That is why the need
to have a central agency representative of all sections of the
society free from control both of the Government and the
dominant influential sections of the society. This is not
disputed. But to contend that on that account the
restrictions to be imposed on the right under Article
19(1)(a) should be in addition to those permissible under Article 19(2) and dictated by the use of public resources in
the best interests of the society at large, is to misconceive
both the content of the freedom of speech and expression
and the problems posed by the element of public property
in, and the alleged scarcity of, the frequencies as well as by
the wider reach of the media. If the right to freedom of
speech and expression includes the right to disseminate
information to as wide a section of the population as is
possible, the access which enables the right to be so
exercised is also an integral part of the said right. The wider
range of circulation of information or its greater impact
cannot restrict the content of the right nor can it justify its
denial. The virtues of the electronic media cannot become
its enemies. It may warrant a greater regulation over
licensing and control and vigilance on the content of the
programme telecast. However, this control can only be
exercised within the framework of Article 19(2) and the
dictates of public interests. To plead for other grounds is to
plead for unconstitutional measures. It is further difficult to
appreciate such contention on the part of the Government
in this country when they have a complete control over the
frequencies and the content of the programme to be
telecast. They control the sole agency of telecasting. They
are also armed with the provisions of Article 19(2) and the
powers of pre-censorship under the Cinematograph Act and
Rules. The only limitation on the said right is, therefore, the
limitation of resources and the need to use them for the
benefit of all. When, however, there are surplus or unlimited
resources and the public interests so demand or in any case
do not prevent telecasting, the validity of the argument
based on limitation of resources disappears. It is true that
to own a frequency for the purposes of broadcasting is a
costly affair and even when there are surplus or unlimited
frequencies, only the affluent few will own them and will be
in a position to use it to subserve their own interest by
manipulating news and views. That also poses a danger to
the freedom of speech and expression of the have-nots by 114 denying them the truthful information on all sides of an
 issue which is so necessary to form a sound view on any
 subject. That is why the doctrine of fairness has been
 evolved in the US in the context of the private broadcasters
 licensed to share the limited frequencies with the central
 agency like FCC to regulate the programming. But this
 phenomenon occurs even in the case of the print media of
 all the countries. Hence the body like the Press Council of
 India which is empowered to enforce, however imperfectly,
 the right to reply. The print media further enjoys as in our
 country, freedom from pre-censorship unlike the electronic
 media." (emphasis supplied)
Public order 33. In Article 19(2)(as it originally stood) this sub-head
was conspicuously absent. Because of its absence, challenges
made to an order made under Section 7 of the Punjab
Maintenance of Public Order Act and to an order made under
Section 9(1)(a) of the Madras Maintenance of Public Order Act
were allowed in two early judgments by this Court. Thus,
in RomeshThappar v. State of Madras [RomeshThappar v. State
of Madras, 1950 SCR 594 : 1950 SCC 436 : AIR 1950 SC 124 : 34. Similarly, in Brij Bhushan v. State of Delhi [1950 SCR
605 : 1950 SCC 449 : AIR 1950 SC 129 : (1950) 51 Cri LJ
1525] , an order made under Section 7 of the East Punjab Public
Safety Act, 1949, was held to be unconstitutional and void for
the self-same reason. 35. As an aftermath of these judgments, the Constitution
First Amendment added the words "public order" to Article
19(2). 36. In Supt., Central Prison v. Ram Manohar
Lohia [Supt., Central Prison v. Ram Manohar Lohia , (1960) 2
SCR 821: AIR 1960 SC 633: 1960 Cri LJ 1002], this Court held
that public order is synonymous with public safety and
tranquility; it is the absence of disorder involving breaches of
local significance in contradistinction to national upheavals, such
as revolution, civil strife, war, affecting the security of the State. This definition was further refined in Ram Manohar
Lohia v. State of Bihar [Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar,
(1966) 1 SCR 709 : AIR 1966 SC 740 : 1966 Cri LJ 608] , where
this Court held : (SCR p. 746 D-E : AIR pp. 758-59, para 52)

 "It will thus appear that just as 'public order' in the
 rulings of this Court (earlier cited) was said to comprehend
 disorders of less gravity than those affecting 'security of
 State', 'law and order' also comprehends disorders of less
 gravity than those affecting 'public order'. One has to
 imagine three concentric circles. Law and order represents
 the largest circle within which is the next circle representing
 public order and the smallest circle represents security of
 State. It is then easy to see that an act may affect law and
 order but not public order just as an act may affect public
 order but not security of the State." 37. In Arun Ghosh v. State of W.B. [(1970) 1 SCC 98 : Public order was said to embrace more of the community
 than law and order. Public order is the even tempo of the
 life of the community taking the country as a whole or even
 a specified locality. Disturbance of public order is to be
 distinguished from acts directed against individuals which
 do not disturb the society to the extent of causing a general
 disturbance of public tranquillity. It is the degree of
 disturbance and its effect upon the life of the community in
 a locality which determines whether the disturbance 116 amounts only to a breach of law and order. Take for
instance, a man stabs another. People may be shocked and
even disturbed, but the life of the community keeps moving
at an even tempo, however much one may dislike the act.
Take another case of a town where there is communal
tension. A man stabs a member of the other community.
This is an act of a very different sort. Its implications are
deeper and it affects the even tempo of life and public order
is jeopardised because the repercussions of the act embrace
large sections of the community and incite them to make
further breaches of the law and order and to subvert the
public order. An act by itself is not determinant of its own
gravity. In its quality it may not differ from another but in
its potentiality it may be very different. Take the case of
assault on girls. A guest at a hotel may kiss or make
advances to half a dozen chamber maids. He may annoy
them and also the management but he does not cause
disturbance of public order. He may even have a fracas with
the friends of one of the girls but even then it would be a
case of breach of law and order only. Take another case of a
man who molests women in lonely places. As a result of his
activities girls going to colleges and schools are in constant
danger and fear. Women going for their ordinary business
are afraid of being waylaid and assaulted. The activity of
this man in its essential quality is not different from the act
of the other man but in its potentiality and in its effect upon
the public tranquillity there is a vast difference. The act of
the man who molests the girls in lonely places causes a
disturbance in the even tempo of living which is the first
requirement of public order. He disturbs the society and the
community. His act makes all the women apprehensive of
their honour and he can be said to be causing disturbance
of public order and not merely committing individual actions
which may be taken note of by the criminal prosecution
agencies. It means therefore that the question whether a
man has only committed a breach of law and order or has
acted in a manner likely to cause a disturbance of the public
order is a question of degree and the extent of the reach of
the act upon the society. The French distinguish law and
order and public order by designating the latter as order
publique. The latter expression has been recognised as
meaning something more than ordinary maintenance of law
and order. Justice Ramaswami in Pushkar
Mukherjee v. State of W.B. [(1969) 1 SCC 10] drew a line
of demarcation between the serious and aggravated forms
of breaches of public order which affect the community or
endanger the public interest at large from minor breaches of 117 peace which do not affect the public at large. He drew an
 analogy between public and private crimes. The analogy is
 useful but not to be pushed too far. A large number of acts
 directed against persons or individuals may total up into a
 breach of public order. In Ram Manohar Lohia case [ Ram
 Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar , (1966) 1 SCR 709 : AIR
 1966 SC 740 : 1966 Cri LJ 608] examples were given by
 Sarkar, and Hidayatullah, JJ. They show how similar acts in
 different contexts affect differently law and order on the one
 hand and public order on the other. It is always a question
 of degree of the harm and its effect upon the community.
 The question to ask is : Does it lead to disturbance of the
 current of life of the community so as to amount to a
 disturbance of the public order or does it affect merely an
 individual leaving the tranquillity of the society undisturbed?
 This question has to be faced in every case on facts. There
 is no formula by which one case can be distinguished from
 another." (emphasis supplied) 38. This decision lays down the test that has to be
formulated in all these cases. We have to ask ourselves the
question : does a particular act lead to disturbance of the
current life of the community or does it merely affect an
individual leaving the tranquility of society undisturbed? Going
by this test, it is clear that Section 66-A is intended to punish
any person who uses the internet to disseminate any
information that falls within the sub-clauses of Section 66-A. It
will be immediately noticed that the recipient of the written
word that is sent by the person who is accused of the offence is
not of any importance so far as this section is concerned. (Save
and except where under sub-clause (c) the addressee or
recipient is deceived or misled about the origin of a particular
message.) It is clear, therefore, that the information that is
disseminated may be to one individual or several individuals.
The section makes no distinction between mass dissemination
and dissemination to one person. Further, the section does not
require that such message should have a clear tendency to
disrupt public order. Such message need not have any potential
which could disturb the community at large. The nexus between
the message and action that may be taken based on the
message is conspicuously absent--there is no ingredient in this
offence of inciting anybody to do anything which a reasonable
man would then say would have the tendency of being an 118 immediate threat to public safety or tranquillity. On all these
counts, it is clear that the section has no proximate relationship
to public order whatsoever. The example of a guest at a hotel
"annoying" girls is telling--this Court has held that mere
"annoyance" need not cause disturbance of public order. Under
Section 66-A, the offence is complete by sending a message for
the purpose of causing annoyance, either "persistently" or
otherwise without in any manner impacting public order. Clear and present danger -- Tendency to affect 39. It will be remembered that Holmes, J. in Schenck v. United States [63 L Ed 470 : 249 US 47
(1919)] , enunciated the clear and present danger test as
follows : (L Ed pp. 473-74)

 "... The most stringent protection of free speech
 would not protect a man in falsely shouting fire in a theatre
 and causing a panic. It does not even protect a man from
 an injunction against uttering words that may have all the
 effect of force. Gompers v. Buck's Stove & Range Co. [221
 US 418 : 31 S Ct 492 : 55 L Ed 797 : 34 LRA (NS) 874
 (1911)] , US p. 439. The question in every case is whether
 the words used are used in such circumstances and are of
 such a nature as to create a clear and present danger that
 they will bring about the substantive evils that Congress has
 a right to prevent. It is a question of proximity and degree." 40. This was further refined in Abrams v. United
States [250 US 616 : 63 L Ed 1173 (1919)] , this time in a
Holmesian dissent, to be clear and imminent danger.
However, in most of the subsequent judgments of the US
Supreme Court, the test has been understood to mean to
be "clear and present danger". The test of "clear and
present danger" has been used by the US Supreme Court
in many varying situations and has been adjusted
according to varying fact situations. It appears to have been
repeatedly applied, see Terminiello v. Chicago [93 L Ed 1131 : 35, Brandenburg v. Ohio [23 L Ed 2d 430 : 395 US 444 (1969)]
, L Ed 2d at pp. 434-35 & 436, Virginia v. Black [155 L Ed 2d
535 : 538 US 343 (2003)] , L Ed 2d at pp. 551, 552 and 553 [
In its present form the clear and present danger test has been
reformulated to say that:"The constitutional guarantees of free 119 speech and free press do not permit a State to forbid or
proscribe advocacy of the use of force or of law violation except
where such advocacy is directed to inciting or producing
imminent lawless action and is likely to incite or produce such
action."Interestingly, the US Courts have gone on to make a
further refinement. The State may ban what is called a "true
threat"."'True threats' encompass those statements where the
speaker means to communicate a serious expression of an
intent to commit an act of unlawful violence to a particular
individual or group of individuals.""The speaker need not
actually intend to carry out the threat. Rather, a prohibition on
true threats protects individuals from the fear of violence and
from the disruption that fear engenders, in addition to
protecting people from the possibility that the threatened
violence will occur. Intimidation in the constitutionally
proscribable sense of the word is a type of true threat, where a
speaker directs a threat to a person or group of persons with
the intent of placing the victim in fear of bodily harm or
death."[See Virginia v. Black, 155 L Ed 2d 535 : 538 US 343
(2003) and Watts v. United States, 22 L Ed 2d 664 at p. 667 : (emphasis supplied) 120 42. This Court has used the expression "tendency" to a
particular act. Thus, in State of Bihar v. Shailabala Devi [(1952)
2 SCC 22 : 1952 SCR 654 : AIR 1952 SC 329 : 1952 Cri LJ
1373] , an early decision of this Court said that an article, in
order to be banned must have a tendency to excite persons to
acts of violence (SCR at pp. 662-63). The test laid down in the
said decision was that the article should be considered as a
whole in a fair free liberal spirit and then it must be decided
what effect it would have on the mind of a reasonable reader
(SCR at pp. 664-65). 43. In Ramji Lal Modi v. State of U.P. [1957 SCR 860 : 44. Viewed at, either by the standpoint of the clear and
present danger test or the tendency to create public disorder,
Section 66-A would not pass muster as it has no element of any
tendency to create public disorder which ought to be an
essential ingredient of the offence which it creates. ... ... ... 62. Secondly, there had to be demonstrated a causality
between disturbance that occurs and the noise or diversion.
Thirdly, acts have to be wilfully done. It is important to notice
that the Supreme Court specifically held that "undesirables" or
their "annoying conduct" may not be punished. It is only on 121 these limited grounds that the said Ordinance was considered
not to be impermissibly vague. 63. In Reno v. American Civil Liberties
Union [Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union, 521 US 844: 138
L Ed 2d 874 (1997)], two provisions of the Communications
Decency Act, 1996 which sought to protect minors from harmful
material on the internet were adjudged unconstitutional. This
judgment is a little important for two basic reasons--that it
deals with a penal offence created for persons who use the
internet as also for the reason that the statute which was
adjudged unconstitutional uses the expression "patently
offensive" which comes extremely close to the expression
"grossly offensive" used by the impugned Section 66-A. Section
223(d) , which was adjudged unconstitutional, is set out
hereinbelow : (US p. 860)

 "223. (d) Whoever-- (1) in interstate or foreign communications
 knowingly-- (A) uses an interactive computer service to send to a
 specific person or persons under 18 years of age, or
 (B) uses any interactive computer service to display
 in a manner available to a person under 18 years of age,
 'any comment, request, suggestion, proposal, image, or
 other communication that, in context, depicts or describes,
 in terms patently offensive as measured by contemporary
 community standards, sexual or excretory activities or
 organs, regardless of whether the user of such service
 placed the call or initiated the communication; or

 (2) knowingly permits any telecommunications
 facility under such person's control to be used for an activity
 prohibited by para (1) with the intent that it be used for
 such activity,

 shall be fined under Title 18, or imprisoned not more than
 two years, or both." Interestingly, the District Court Judge writing of the internet
said: 92. The aforesaid Rule was challenged under Articles
19(1)(a) and (b) of the Constitution. The Court followed the law laid down in Ram Manohar Lohia case [ Supt., Central
Prison v. Ram Manohar Lohia , (1960) 2 SCR 821 : AIR 1960 SC
633 : 1960 Cri LJ 1002] and accepted the challenge. It first held
that demonstrations are a form of speech and then held : Possibility of an Act being abused is not a ground to test
its validity 95. The learned Additional Solicitor General cited a large
number of judgments on the proposition that the fact that
Section 66-A is capable of being abused by the persons who
administer it is not a ground to test its validity if it is otherwise
valid. He further assured us that this Government was
committed to free speech and that Section 66-A would not be
used to curb free speech, but would be used only when excesses
are perpetrated by persons on the rights of others. In Collector
of Customs v. NathellaSampathu Chetty [(1962) 3 SCR 786 : 96. In this case, it is the converse proposition which
would really apply if the learned Additional Solicitor General's
argument is to be accepted. If Section 66-A is otherwise invalid,
it cannot be saved by an assurance from the learned Additional
Solicitor General that it will be administered in a reasonable
manner. Governments may come and Governments may go but
Section 66-A goes on forever. An assurance from the present
Government even if carried out faithfully would not bind any
successor Government. It must, therefore, be held that Section
66-A must be judged on its own merits without any reference to
how well it may be administered. ... ... ... 114. It will be noticed that Section 69-A unlike Section
66-A is a narrowly drawn provision with several safeguards.
First and foremost, blocking can only be resorted to where the
Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary so to do.
Secondly, such necessity is relatable only to some of the 127 subjects set out in Article 19(2). Thirdly, reasons have to be
recorded in writing in such blocking order so that they may be
assailed in a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution. 115. The Rules further provide for a hearing before the
Committee set up--which Committee then looks into whether or
not it is necessary to block such information. It is only when the
Committee finds that there is such a necessity that a blocking
order is made. It is also clear from an examination of Rule 8
that it is not merely the intermediary who may be heard. If the
"person" i.e. the originator is identified he is also to be heard
before a blocking order is passed. Above all, it is only after
these procedural safeguards are met that blocking orders are
made and in case there is a certified copy of a court order, only
then can such blocking order also be made. It is only an
intermediary who finally fails to comply with the directions
issued who is punishable under sub-section (3) of Section 69-A . 116. Merely because certain additional safeguards such
as those found in Sections 95 and 96 CrPC are not available
does not make the Rules constitutionally infirm. We are of the
view that the Rules are not constitutionally infirm in any
manner. Section 79 and the Information Technology
(Intermediary Guidelines) Rules, 2011 117. Section 79 belongs to Chapter XII of the Act in
which intermediaries are exempt from liability if they
fulfil the conditions of the section. Section 79 states: Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, the
 expression 'third party information' means any information
 dealt with by an intermediary in his capacity as an
 intermediary." 118. Under the 2011 Rules, by Rule 3 an
intermediary has not only to publish the rules and
regulations, privacy policy and user agreement for access
or usage of the intermediary's computer resource but he
has also to inform all users of the various matters set out
in Rule 3(2). Since Rules 3(2) and 3(4) are important,
they are set out hereinbelow: 119. The learned counsel for the petitioners
assailed Rules 3(2) and 3(4) on two basic grounds.
Firstly, the intermediary is called upon to exercise its own
judgment under sub-rule (4) and then disable
information that is in contravention of sub-rule (2), when
intermediaries by their very definition are only persons
who offer a neutral platform through which persons may
interact with each other over the internet. Further, no
safeguards are provided as in the 2009 Rules made under Section 69-A . Also, for the very reasons that Section 66-A
is bad, the petitioners assailed sub-rule (2) of Rule 3
saying that it is vague and over broad and has no relation
with the subjects specified under Article 19(2). 120. One of the petitioners' counsel also assailed Section 79(3)(b) to the extent that it makes the
intermediary exercise its own judgment upon receiving
actual knowledge that any information is being used to
commit unlawful acts. Further, the expression "unlawful
acts" also goes way beyond the specified subjects
delineated in Article 19(2). 121. It must first be appreciated that Section 79 is
an exemption provision. Being an exemption provision, it
is closely related to provisions which provide for offences
including Section 69-A . We have seen how under Section
69-A blocking can take place only by a reasoned order
after complying with several procedural safeguards
including a hearing to the originator and intermediary.
We have also seen how there are only two ways in which
a blocking order can be passed--one by the Designated
Officer after complying with the 2009 Rules and the other
by the Designated Officer when he has to follow an order
passed by a competent court. The intermediary applying
its own mind to whether information should or should not
be blocked is noticeably absent in Section 69-A read with
the 2009 Rules. 122. Section 79(3)(b) has to be read down to mean
 that the intermediary upon receiving actual knowledge
 that a court order has been passed asking it to
 expeditiously remove or disable access to certain
 material must then fail to expeditiously remove or disable
 access to that material. This is for the reason that
 otherwise it would be very difficult for intermediaries like
 Google, Facebook, etc. to act when millions of requests
 are made and the intermediary is then to judge as to
 which of such requests are legitimate and which are not.
 We have been informed that in other countries worldwide
 this view has gained acceptance, Argentina being in the
 forefront. Also, the Court order and/or the notification by
 the appropriate Government or its agency must strictly
 conform to the subject-matters laid down in Article
 19(2). Unlawful acts beyond what is laid down in Article
 19(2) obviously cannot form any part of Section 79 . With
 these two caveats, we refrain from striking down Section
 79(3)(b) . 123. The learned Additional Solicitor General informed us
that it is a common practice worldwide for intermediaries to have
user agreements containing what is stated in Rule 3(2). However,
Rule 3(4) needs to be read down in the same manner as Section
79(3)(b) . The knowledge spoken of in the said sub-rule must
only be through the medium of a court order. Subject to this,
the Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines)
Rules, 2011 are valid. 124. In conclusion, we may summarise what has been
held by us above: (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court, while elaborately interpreting the Intermediary

Rules, 2011 strikes down Section 66A of the Act to be violative of Article 19(1)(a) and not saved under Article 19(2). The Apex Court

holds Section 69A and the Blocking Rules, 2009 to be

constitutionally valid. It reads down Section 79 to mean, that an

intermediary upon receiving actual knowledge from a Court order,

or being notified by the appropriate Government, would remove the

material under the Intermediary Rules, 2011. The action was said

to be valid, subject to Rule 3(4) being read down in the same

manner as indicated qua Section 79 . 12.11. It now becomes necessary to notice the change in

judicial thought post SHREYA SINGHAL, where the Apex Court

considering the cases of these intermediaries holds differently. POST - SHREYA SINGHAL: LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY, NCT OF DELHI10, has held as follows: Such vast powers must necessarily come with
responsibility. Entities like Facebook have to remain
accountable to those who entrust them with such power.
While Facebook has played a crucial role in enabling free
speech by providing a voice to the voiceless and a means
to escape State censorship, we cannot lose sight of the
fact that it has simultaneously become a platform for
disruptive messages, voices, and ideologies. The
successful functioning of a liberal democracy can only be
ensured when citizens are able to make informed
decisions. Such decisions have to be made keeping in
mind a plurality of perspectives and ideas. 3. The information explosion in the digital age is
capable of creating new challenges that are insidiously
modulating the debate on issues where opinions can be
vastly divided. Thus, while social media, on the one hand,
is enhancing equal and open dialogue between citizens
and policy makers; on the other hand, it has become a
tool in the hands of various interest groups who have
recognised its disruptive potential. This results in a
paradoxical outcome where extremist views are peddled
into the mainstream, thereby spreading misinformation.
Established independent democracies are seeing the
effect of such ripples across the globe and are concerned.
Election and voting processes, the very foundation of a
democratic government, stand threatened by social
media manipulation. This has given rise to significant
debates about the increasing concentration of power in
platforms like Facebook, more so as they are said to
employ business models that are privacy-intrusive and
attention soliciting. The effect on a stable society can be
cataclysmic with citizens being "polarised and paralysed" 4. It is interesting to note that the Oxford Dictionary in
2016 chose "Post-Truth" as the word of the year. The adjective
has been defined as "relating to or denoting circumstances in
which objective facts are less influential in shaping public 135 opinion than appeals to emotion and personal belief." This
expression has a period relevance when it came to be
recognised contextually with divided debates about the 2016 US
Presidential Elections and Brexit -- two important events with
effects beyond their territorial limits. The obfuscation of facts,
abandonment of evidentiary standards in reasoning, and
outright lying in the public sphere left many aghast. A lot of
blame was sought to be placed at the door of social media, it
being a source of this evolving contemporary phenomenon
where objective truth is becoming a commodity with diminishing
value. George Orwell, in his 1943 essay titled "Looking Back on
the Spanish War" had expressed "... the very concept of
objective truth is fading out of the world. After all, the chances
are that those lies, or at any rate similar lies will pass into
history" the words have proved to be prophetic. 5. In the conspectus of the aforesaid, it is difficult to
accept the simplistic approach adopted by Facebook -- that it is
merely a platform posting third-party information and has no
role in generating, controlling or modulating that information.
The endeavour to hide behind such simplistic models have been
found to be unacceptable by the UK Parliament. The House of
Commons Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee in
its 2018 Report had opined that this would amount to shirking
of their responsibilities with respect to content regulation on
their site. 6. Serious questions have been raised about whether
there is a faulty architecture of such intermediary platforms and
whether the kind of free, liberal debate which they sought to
encourage has itself become a casualty, defeating the very
objective of providing that platform. It is too late in the day for
companies like Facebook to deny that they use algorithms
(which are sequences of instructions) with some human
intervention to personalise content and news to target users.
The algorithms select the content based on several factors
including social connections, location, and past online activity of
the user. These algorithms are often far from objective with
biases capable of getting replicated and reinforced. The role
played by Facebook is, thus, more active and not as innocuous
as is often presented when dealing with third-party content. 7. In fact, in the proceedings before us, it is their
contention that there are times when they are at the receiving
end of both groups alleging bias towards the other but then this
is a sequitur to their ability to decide which content to amplify,
suggest, and elevate. Internationally, Facebook has had to
recognise its role in failing to prevent division and incitement of
offline violence in the context of the stated ethnic cleansing in
Myanmar where a crescendo of misinformation and posts,
somehow missed by Facebook employees, helped fuel the
violence. The platform similarly apologised for its lack of serious
response to evident signs of abuse of the platform in Sri Lanka,
which again is stated to have stoked widespread violence in
2018 in the country and had to acknowledge its need to be
regulated though the exact method is still unclear and a
prerogative of law-making authority. 8. There have been endeavours in light of the
aforesaid by countries like Australia, US, the UK, and the
EU for ways to regulate platforms such as Facebook in an
efficient manner but their efforts are still at a nascent
stage as studies are undertaken to understand the
dynamism of the platform and its disruptive potential. A
recent example has been Australia's effort to formulate a
legislation that would require Facebook to pay publishers
for using their news stories. The law was seen as a tool
to regulate the platform's unchecked influence over
political discourse, society, and democracy. In response,
Facebook blocked all news on its platform across the
country with the result that there was some relaxation
but ultimately a via media was found. The US has also
seen heated debates arising from the 2016 Presidential
Elections with allegations of supposed interference by
Russia allegedly facilitated by platforms like Facebook.
Last year, the EU formulated legislative proposals,
namely, the Digital Services Act and Digital Markets Act,
setting out rules for platforms to follow. 9. We have penned down a detailed introduction to
appreciate the gravity of what was debated before us in the
context of Facebook's hands-off approach, who have urged that
they cannot be compelled to participate in proceedings of Sub-
Committees formed by Parliament or the Legislative Assemblies.
The immense power that platforms like Facebook wield has 137 stirred a debate not only in our country but across the world.
 The endeavour has been to draw a line between tackling hate
 speech and fake news on the one hand and suppressing
 legitimate speech which may make those in power
 uncomfortable, on the other. This delicate balance has thus far
 only been maintained by the intermediaries by being value-
 neutral. The significance of this is all the more in a democracy
 which itself rests on certain core values. This unprecedented
 degree of influence necessitates safeguards and caution in
 consonance with democratic values. Platforms and
 intermediaries must subserve the principal objective as a
 valuable tool for public good upholding democratic values. 10. The sheer population of our country makes it an
 important destination for Facebook. We are possibly more
 diverse than the whole of Europe in local culture, food,
 clothing, language, religion, traditions and yet have a
 history of what has now commonly been called "unity in
 diversity". This cannot be disrupted at any cost or under
 any professed freedom by a giant like Facebook claiming
 ignorance or lack of any pivotal role." (Emphasis supplied)

 12.13. The Apex Court recently encountered this menace and

had to indicate the role of intermediaries in the case of JUST

RIGHTS FOR CHILDREN ALLIANCE v. S.HARISH11. Therein the

Apex Court observes as follows: ".... .... .... 254. The role of "intermediaries" as defined under Section 2(w) of the IT Act in checking the proliferation of
 child pornography is significant. Section 79 of the IT Act,
 2000 which relates to due diligence that is to be observed
 by an intermediary, provides an exemption from liability 11 2024 SCC OnLine SC 2611 138 to such intermediaries in certain cases if they are in
compliance with the due-diligence requirements
prescribed under the said provision, more particularly
sub-section (3)(b), this is known as the "safe harbour" Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, the
 expression 'third-party information' means any information dealt
 with by an intermediary in his capacity as an intermediary." (Emphasis supplied)

 12.14. In a criminal case concerning RANVEER GAUTAM

ALLAHABADIA v. UNION OF INDIA12, the Apex Court suggested

to Government of India to draft a regulatory proposal effective

enough to ensure reasonable restrictions on free speech within the

meaning of Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India. The Apex

Court, in the said case, has held as follows: 6. As of now, we have heard learned counsel for the
petitioner as well as learned Solicitor General of India with
reference to prayer (i), which pertains to vacation/modification
of Clause (v) of the order dated 18.02.2025 in terms whereof
the petitioner and his associates were restrained from airing any
show on Youtube or any other audio/video visual mode of
communication till further orders. 7. Subject to the petitioner's furnishing an undertaking to
the effect that his digital podcast named 'The Ranveer Show' will 142 maintain the desired standards of decency and morality so that
 viewers of any age group can watch it, and subject to further
 condition that no programme on the 'The Ranveer Show' shall
 be telecasted which has direct or indirect bearing on the merits
 of the cases which are sub-judice, the petitioner is permitted to
 resume 'The Ranveer Show". The directions contained in Clause (v) of order dated 18.02.2025 are modified primarily keeping in
 view the fact that livelihood of around 280 employees statedly
 engaged by the petitioner for his 'The Ranveer Show' is likely to
 be affected. 8. As regard to prayer (ii), namely, to allow him to travel
 abroad to record his podcast with guests based in foreign
 countries and for other work commitments, such a prayer shall
 be considered after the petitioner joins the investigation." (Emphasis supplied)

 12.15. The Apex Court while dealing with issues of

intersection of free speech and criminal liability throughout its

judicial thought, observes that while speech must be protected as

the corner stone of liberty, its unchecked proliferation in the digital

age, may necessitate, measured regulatory interventions to

preserve, order, decency and integrity of democratic life. It is

therefore while dealing with the case of RANVEER supra, the Apex

Court thought it appropriate to invite the Government of India to

formulate a regulatory framework capable of imposing effective and

meaningful checks on the freedom of expression, within the

boundaries of Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India. Thus, the 143 larger benches of the Apex Court, pre-SHREYA SINGHAL

recognised the right of reasonable restrictions upon free speech and

expression. Post-SHREYA SINGHAL, the benches of larger

strength or even equal strength have thought it fit to curb the

developing menace. Therefore, I answer the issue holding

that free speech, as obtaining under Article 19(1)(a) cannot

be unbridled, uncanalized and a free fall, it is hedged,

regulated and restricted by reasonable restrictions as found

in Article 19(2). ISSUE NO.4: 13.1. The judgment of the Apex Court in the case of SHREYA

SINGHAL was broadly based upon the judgment of the American

Supreme Court in the case of RENO supra, albeit, inter alia. It,

therefore, becomes necessary to notice the judgments rendered by

the benches of larger strength, as to whether American 144 Jurisprudence or doctrines can be transplanted to Indian

Jurisprudence. 13.2. Beginning with the Constitution Bench judgment in the

case of BABULAL PARATE v. STATE OF MAHARASHTRA13 ,

wherein the Apex Court observes as follows: ".... .... .... 23. The argument that the test of determining criminality
 in advance is unreasonable, is apparently founded upon the
 doctrine adumbrated in Scheneck case [Scheneck v. U. S., 249 ,
 US 47] that previous restraints on the exercise of fundamental
 rights are permissible only if there be a clear and present
 danger. It seems to us, however, that the American
 doctrine cannot be imported under our Constitution
 because the fundamental rights guaranteed under Article
 19(1) of the Constitution are not absolute rights but, as
 pointed out in State of Madras v. V.G. Row [(1952) 1 SCC
 410 : 1952 SCR 597] are subject to the restrictions placed
 in the subsequent clauses of Article 19. There is nothing
 in the American Constitution corresponding to clauses (2)
 to (6) of Article 19 of our Constitution. The Fourteenth
 Amendment to the U.S. Constitution provides, among other
 things, that "no State shall make or enforce any law which shall
 abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
 States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or
 property, without due process of law; ....". 24. The framework of our Constitution is different
 from that of the Constitution of the United States. Then
 again, the Supreme Court of the United States has held
 that the privileges and immunities conferred by the
 Constitution are subject to social control by resort to the 13 (1961) 3 SCR 423 : 1961 SCC OnLine SC 48 145 doctrine of police power. It is in the light of this
background that the test laid down in Scheneck
case [Scheneck v. U. S., 249 , US 47] has to be understood. 25. The language of Section 144 is somewhat different.
The test laid down in the section is not merely "likelihood" or
"tendency". The section says that the Magistrate must be
satisfied that immediate prevention of particular acts is
necessary to counteract danger to public safety etc. The power
conferred by the section is exercisable not only where present
danger exists but is exercisable also when there is an
apprehension of danger. 26. Apart from this it is worthy of note that in Scheneck
case [Scheneck v. U. S., 249 , US 47] the Supreme Court was
concerned with the right of freedom of speech and it observed: 27. Whatever may be the position in the United
States it seems to us clear that anticipatory action of the
kind permissible under Section 144 is not impermissible
under clauses (2) and (3) of Article 19. Both in clause (2)
(as amended in 1951) and in clause (3), power is given to
the legislature to make laws placing reasonable
restrictions on the exercise of the rights conferred by
these clauses in the interest, among other things, of
public order. Public order has to be maintained in 146 advance in order to ensure it and, therefore, it is
 competent to a legislature to pass a law permitting an
 appropriate authority to take anticipatory action or place
 anticipatory restrictions upon particular kinds of acts in
 an emergency for the purpose of maintaining public
 order. We must, therefore, reject the contention. 28. It is no doubt true that since the duty to maintain law
 and order is cast upon the Magistrate, he must perform that
 duty and not shirk it by prohibiting or restricting the normal
 activities of the citizen. But it is difficult to say that an
 anticipatory action taken by such an authority in an emergency
 where danger to public order is genuinely apprehended is
 anything other than an action done in the discharge of the duty
 to maintain order. In such circumstances that could be the only
 mode of discharging the duty. We, therefore, reject the
 contention that Section 144 substitutes suppression of lawful
 activity or right for the duty of public authorities to maintain
 order." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court holds that American doctrine cannot be imported

under our Constitution, because the fundamental rights guaranteed

under Article 19(1) are not absolute rights, but as pointed by the

Apex Court in the case of STATE OF MADRAS v. V.G.ROW supra,

they are subject to restrictions placed in the subsequent clauses of Article 19. There is nothing in the American Constitution

corresponding to clauses (2) to (6) of Article 19 of the Constitution. Therefore, the Constitution Bench holds that framework of our

Constitution is different from that of the Constitution of the United

States of America. The privileges and immunity conferred in the 147 United States are entirely different from such conferment under the

Constitution of India. 13.3. Again, the 7 Judge Bench of the Apex Court in the case

of MADHU LIMAYE v. SUB-DIVISIONAL MAGISTRATE

MONGHYR14 has held as follows: ".... .... .... 16. We may here observe that the overlap of public order
 and public tranquillity is only partial. The terms are not always
 synonymous. The latter is a much wider expression and takes in
 many things which cannot be described as public disorder. The
 words "public order" and "public tranquillity" overlap to a certain
 extent but there are matters which disturb public tranquillity
 without being a disturbance of public order. A person playing
 loud music in his own house in the middle of the night may
 disturb public tranquillity, but he is not causing public disorder. 17. The English and American precedents and
 legislation are not of such help. The Public Order Act,
 1936 was passed because in 1936 different political
 organisations marched in uniforms causing riots. In
 America the First Amendment freedoms have no such
 qualifications as in India and the rulings are apt to be
 misapplied to our Constitution." (Emphasis supplied) 14 (1970) 3 SCC 746 148 The 7 Judge Bench holds that English and American precedents and

legislation are not of such help. In America, the first amendment

freedoms have no such qualifications as in India and the rulings are

apt to be misapplied to our Constitution. 13.4. The Constitution Bench of the Apex Court, again in the

case of RAMLILA MAIDAN INCIDENT, IN RE.15 has held as

follows: ".... .... .... 2. It appears justified here to mention the First
 Amendment to the United States (US) Constitution, a bell-
 wether in the pursuit of expanding the horizon of civil liberties.
 This Amendment provides for the freedom of speech of press in
 the American Bill of Rights. This Amendment added new
 dimensions to this right to freedom and purportedly, without
 any limitations. The expressions used in wording the First
 Amendment have a wide magnitude and are capable of liberal
 construction. It reads as under: The effect of use of these expressions, in particular, was that
 the freedom of speech of press was considered absolute and
 free from any restrictions whatsoever. 3. Shortly thereafter, as a result of widening of the power
 of judicial review, the US Supreme Court preferred to test each 15 (2012) 5 SCC 1 149 case on the touchstone of the rule of "clear and present danger" 4. The "balancing of interests" approach is basically
derived from Roscoe Pound's theories of social engineering.
Pound had insisted that his structure of public, social and
individual interests are all, in fact, individual interests looked at
from different points of view for the purpose of clarity.
Therefore, in order to make the system work properly, it is
essential that when interests are balanced, all claims must be
translated into the same level and carefully labelled. Thus, a
social interest may not be balanced against individual interest,
but only against another social interest. The author points out
that throughout the heyday of the "clear and present danger" 5. Even in the United States there is a recurring
debate in modern First Amendment jurisprudence as to
whether First Amendment rights are "absolute" in the
sense that the Government may not abridge them at all
or whether the First Amendment requires the "balancing 150 of competing interests" in the sense that free speech
values and the Government's competing justification
must be isolated and weighted in each case. Although the
First Amendment to the American Constitution provides
that Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of
speech, press or assembly, it has long been established
that those freedoms themselves are dependent upon the
power of the constitutional Government to survive. If it is
to survive, it must have power to protect itself against
unlawful conduct and under some circumstances against
incitements to commit unlawful acts. Freedom of speech,
thus, does not comprehend the right to speak on any
subject at any time. 6. In Schenck v. United States [63 L Ed 470 : 249 US 47
(1919)] the Court held : (L Ed pp. 473-74)

 "... the character of every act depends upon the
 circumstances in which it is done. ... The most stringent
 protection of free speech would not protect a man in falsely
 shouting fire in a theatre, and causing a panic. It does not
 even protect a man from an injunction against uttering
 words that have all the effect of force. ... The question in
 every case is whether the words used are used in such
 circumstances and are of such a nature as to create a clear
 and present danger that they will bring about the
 substantive evils that Congress has a right to prevent."
 [Constitution of India (2nd Edn.), Vol. 1 by Dr L.M.
 Singhvi.] 7. In contradistinction to the above approach of the
US Supreme Court, the Indian Constitution spells out the
right to freedom of speech and expression under Article
19(1)(a). It also provides the right to assemble
peacefully and without arms to every citizen of the
country under Article 19(1)(b). However, these rights are
not free from any restrictions and are not absolute in
their terms and application. Articles 19(2) and 19(3) ,
respectively, control the freedoms available to a citizen. Article 19(2) empowers the State to impose reasonable
restrictions on exercise of the right to freedom of speech
and expression in the interest of the factors stated in the
said clause. Similarly, Article 19(3) enables the State to 151 make any law imposing reasonable restrictions on the
exercise of the right conferred, again in the interest of
the factors stated therein. 8. In face of this constitutional mandate, the
American doctrine adumbrated in Schenck case [63 L Ed
470 : 249 US 47 (1919)] cannot be imported and applied.
Under our Constitution, this right is not an absolute right
but is subject to the abovenoticed restrictions. Thus, the
position under our Constitution is different. 9. In Constitutional Law of India by H.M. Seervai (4th
Edn.), Vol. 1, the author has noticed that the provisions of the
two Constitutions as to freedom of speech and expression are
essentially different. The difference being accentuated by the
provisions of the Indian Constitution for preventive detention
which have no counterpart in the US Constitution. Reasonable
restriction contemplated under the Indian Constitution brings
the matter in the domain of the court as the question of
reasonableness is a question primarily for the court to decide.
( Babulal Parate v. State of Maharashtra [AIR 1961 SC 884: 10. The fundamental right enshrined in the
Constitution itself being made subject to reasonable
restrictions, the laws so enacted to specify certain
restrictions on the right to freedom of speech and
expression have to be construed meaningfully and with
the constitutional object in mind. For instance, the right
to freedom of speech and expression is not violated by a
law which requires that the name of the printer and
publisher and the place of printing and publication should
be printed legibly on every book or paper. 11. Thus, there is a marked distinction in the
language of law, its possible interpretation and
application under the Indian and the US laws. It is
significant to note that the freedom of speech is the
bulwark of a democratic Government. This freedom is
essential for proper functioning of the democratic
process. The freedom of speech and expression is
regarded as the first condition of liberty. It occupies a
preferred position in the hierarchy of liberties, giving 152 succour and protection to all other liberties. It has been
 truly said that it is the mother of all other liberties.
 Freedom of speech plays a crucial role in the formation of
 public opinion on social, political and economic matters.
 It has been described as a "basic human right", "a
 natural right" and the like. With the development of law
 in India, the right to freedom of speech and expression
 has taken within its ambit the right to receive information
 as well as the right of press." (Emphasis supplied)

The Constitution Bench, again holds that, in the face of the

Constitutional mandate, the American doctrine in SCHENCK v. UNITED STATES, 249 U. S. 47 (1919) case cannot be imported

and applied to our Constitution. The Apex Court holds that there is

a marked distinction in the language of law, its possible

interpretation and application under the Indian and the U.S. laws. American doctrines, apart from the precedents, have also been

declined to be followed by the Apex Court from time to time. 13.5. In the case of JOSEPH KURUVILLA VELLUKUNNEL v. THE RESERVE BANK OF INDIA16, the Apex Court has held as

follows: ".... .... .... 50. Mr Nambiar, however, joined issue on the use of the
 American precedents on the ground that banking in America is
 by grace of legislature, and is either a franchise or a privilege, 16 AIR 1962 SC 1371 153 which has no place in our Constitution. He added that the
 carrying on of business is not one of the provisions of the
 American Bill of Rights, nor a fundamental right, as we
 understand it, though by judicial construction the individual
 right has been brought within the Fourteenth Amendment. He,
 therefore, contended that American cases and American
 laws should not be used. In our opinion, no useful
 purpose will be served by trying to establish the
 similarities or discrepancies between the American
 Constitution and banking laws, on the one hand, and our
 Constitution and our banking laws, on the other, and we
 do not wish to rest our decision on the American and
 Japanese analogies. 75. The aid of American concepts, laws and
 precedents in the interpretation of our laws is not always
 without its dangers and they have therefore to be relied
 upon with some caution if not with hesitation because of
 the difference in the nature of those laws and of the
 institutions to which they apply. Mr Nambiyar relied upon
 these different concepts and submitted that in U.S.A. the right
 to carry on business is not a fundamental right but is a
 "franchise", though, it has by legal interpretation, been brought
 within the fourteenth amendment and the doctrine of
 "franchise" has no place in the Indian Constitution: C.S.S. Motor
 Service v. State of Madras [ILR (1953) Mad. 304] approved in Saghir Ahmad v. State of U.P. [(1955) 1 SCR 707, 718].
 Similarly the right to form a corporation is in U.S.A. a
 "franchise" or a "privilege" which can be withdrawn. To apply
 the analogy of Banks in U.S.A. to those in India or the mode of
 exercise by and extent of the powers of a Controller of Currency
 or some similar authority will more likely than not lead to
 erroneous conclusions. (Emphasis supplied)

 13.6. The Apex Court in the case of M.C. MEHTA v. UNION

OF INDIA17 , has held as follows: in Jackson v. Metropolitan Edison Company [42 L Ed (2d)
477] as against the majority opinion of Rehnquist, J. And
again in Air India v. NergeshMeerza [(1981) 4 SCC 335 : makers represented in the Constituent Assembly. The first
 thing to be noticed in this connection is that the Constitution-
 makers were not writing on a clean slate. They had the Government of India Act, 1935 and they also had the
 administrative set up which that Act envisaged. India then
 consisted of various administrative units known as Provinces,
 each with its own administrative set up. There were differences
 of language, religion etc. Some of the Provinces were 18 (1963) 1 SCR 491:1962 SCC OnLine SC 21 156 economically more developed than the others. Even inside the
same Province, there were under developed, developed and
highly developed areas from the point of view of industries,
communications etc. The problem of economic integration with
which the Constitution-makers were faced was a problem with
many facets. Two questions, however, stood out; one question
was how to achieve a federal, economic and fiscal integration,
so that economic policies affecting the interests of India as a
whole could be carried out without putting an ever-increasing
strain on the unity of India, particularly in the context of a
developing economy. The second question was how to foster the
development of areas which were under-developed without
creating too many preferential or discriminative barriers.
Besides the Provinces, there were the Indian States also known
as Indian India. After India attained political freedom in 1947
and before the Constitution was adopted, the process of merger
and integration of the Indian States with the rest of the country
had been accomplished so that when the Constitution was first
passed the territory of India consisted of Part A States, which
broadly stated, represented the Provinces in British India, and
Part B States which were made up of Indian States. There were
trade barriers raised by the Indian States in the exercise of their
legislative powers and the Constitution-makers had to make
provisions with regard to those trade barriers as well. The
evolution of a federal structure or a quasi-federal structure
necessarily involved, in the context of the constitutions then
prevailing, a distribution of powers and a basic part of our
Constitution relates to that distribution with the three legislative
lists in the Seventh Schedule. The Constitution itself says by Article 1 that India is a Union of States and in interpreting the
Constitution one must keep in view the essential structure of a
federal or quasi-federal Constitution, namely, that the units of
the Union have also certain powers as has the Union itself. One
of the grievances made on behalf of the intervening States
before us was that the majority view in the Atiabari Tea Co.
case [(1961) 1 SCR 809] did not give sufficient importance to
the power of the States under the Indian Constitution to raise
revenue by taxes under the legislative heads entrusted to them,
in interpreting the series of articles relating to trade, commerce
and intercourse in Part XIII of the Constitution. It has been
often stated that freedom of inter-State trade and commerce in
a federation has been a baffling problem to constitutional
experts in Australia, in America and in other federal 157 constitutions. In evolving an integrated policy on this subject
 our Constitution-makers seem to have kept in mind three main
 considerations which may be broadly stated thus : first, in the
 larger interests of India there must be free flow of trade,
 commerce and intercourse, both inter-State and intra-State;
 second, the regional interests must not be ignored altogether;
 and third, there must be a power of intervention by the Union in
 any case of crisis to deal with particular problems that may arise
 in any part of India. As we shall presently show, all these three
 considerations have played their part in the series of articles
 which we have to consider in Part XIII of the Constitution.
 Therefore, in interpreting the relevant articles in Part XIII we
 must have regard to the general scheme of the Constitution of
 India with special reference to Part III (Fundamental Rights),
 Part XII (Finance, Property etc. containing Articles 276 and 286 )
 and their inter-relation to Part XIII in the context of a federal or
 quasi-federal Constitution in which the States have certain
 powers including the power to raise revenues for their purposes
 by taxation." (Emphasis supplied)

 13.8. The Apex Court in the case of STATE OF BIHAR v. UNION OF INDIA19, has held as follows: ".... .... .... 13. Our attention was drawn to some provisions of the
 American Constitution and of the Constitution Act of Australia
 and several decisions bearing on the interpretation of provisions
 which are somewhat similar to Article 131. But as the similarity
 is only limited, we do not propose to examine either the
 provisions referred to or the decisions to which our attention
 was drawn. In interpreting our Constitution we must not
 be guided by decisions which do not bear upon provisions
 identical with those in our Constitution." (Emphasis supplied) 19 (1970) 1 SCC 67 158 13.9. In the case of ASHOKA KUMAR THAKUR v. UNION

OF INDIA20 , the Apex Court has laid down as follows: ".... ..... .... 188. At the outset, it must be stated that the
 decisions of the United States Supreme Court were not
 applied in the Indian context as it was felt that the
 structure of the provisions under the two Constitutions
 and the social conditions as well as other factors are
 widely different in both the countries. Reference may be
 made to BhikajiNarainDhakras v. State of M.P. [AIR 1955 SC
 781: ( 1955) 2 SCR 589] and A.S. Krishna v. State of
 Madras [AIR 1957 SC 297: 1957 SCR 399] wherein this Court
 specifically held that the due process clause in the
 Constitution of the United States of America is not
 applicable to India. While considering the scope and
 applicability of Article 19(1)(g) in Kameshwar Prasad v. State of
 Bihar [AIR 1962 SC 1166: 1962 Supp (3) SCR 369] it was
 observed: (AIR p. 1169, para 8)

 "8. As regards these decisions of the American
 courts, it should be borne in mind that though the First
 Amendment to the Constitution of the United States reading
 'Congress shall make no law ... abridging the freedom of
 speech ...' appears to confer no power on the Congress to
 impose any restriction on the exercise of the guaranteed
 right, still it has always been understood that the freedom
 guaranteed is subject to the police power--the scope of
 which however has not been defined with precision or
 uniformly." 189. In Kesavananda Bharati case [(1973) 4 SCC 225 : 190. It may also be noticed that there are structural
differences in the Constitution of India and the
Constitution of the United States of America. Reference
may be made to the Fourteenth Amendment to the US
Constitution. Some of the relevant portions thereof are as
follows: Whereas in India, Articles 14 and 18 are differently structured
and contain express provisions for special provision for the
advancement of SEBCs, STs and SCs. Moreover, in our
Constitution there is a specific provision under the
directive principles of State policy in Part IV of the
Constitution requiring the State to strive for
justice'social, economic and political--and to minimise
the inequalities of income and endeavour to eliminate
inequalities in status, facilities and opportunities (Article 38). Earlier, there was a view that Articles 16(4) and 15(5) are
exceptions to Articles 16(1) and 15(1) respectively. This view
was held in GM, Southern Railway v. Rangachari [AIR 1962 SC
36 : ( 1962) 2 SCR 586] and M.R. Balaji v. State of Mysore [AIR
1963 SC 649 : 1963 Supp (1) SCR 439] . ... ... ... 209. The aforesaid principles applied by the
 Supreme Court of the United States of America cannot be
 applied directly to India as the gamut of affirmative
 action in India is fully supported by constitutional
 provisions and we have not applied the principles of
 "suspect legislation" and we have been following the
 doctrine that every legislation passed by Parliament is
 presumed to be constitutionally valid unless otherwise
 proved. We have repeatedly held that the American
 decisions are not strictly applicable to us and the very
 same principles of strict scrutiny and suspect legislation
 were sought to be applied and this Court rejected the
 same in Saurabh Chaudri v. Union of India [(2003) 11
 SCC 146] . Speaking for the Bench, V.N. Khare, C.J., said : (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court, in the afore-quoted judgments has spoken with

clarity that American Constitutional doctrines cannot simply be

grafted on to the Indian Constitution. For the two rest profoundly

on different foundations. The fundamental freedoms enshrined in Article 19(1) are not cast in the mould of absolutes. They are

liberties delicately balanced with larger interest of the Society. 13.11. In India, the Architects of our Constitutions

wove the balance into the text itself. The 7 Judge Bench in

the case of MADHU LIMAYE observes that English and

American precedents provide but, scant guidance, in the

Indian Constitutional landscape. To transplant its rulings

untampered by contextual safeguards of Indian law, would

therefore be to misapply them - to force a foreign mould 162 upon a distinctly Indian design. The Constitution bench

later reaffirms that in the face of Indian Constitutional

mandate, American doctrine finds no room for importation or

application within our jurisprudence. The Court underscored

the striking distinctions in the very language of the two

Constitutions. 13.12. The learned Solicitor General for the Union of India has

submitted that on the aforesaid score, the Union is contemplating

to seek a review of SHREYA SINGHAL, be that as it may. This

Court is only asked to answer the importation of American doctrine

into the Indian jurisprudence, in the light of the law as enunciated

by the Apex Court, post SHREYA SINGHAL, following Constitution

bench judgment in pre-SHREYA SINGHAL. I hold that the

American Doctrines cannot be transplanted in interpreting Articles

of the Indian Constitution. I deem it appropriate to add, that it

must not be construed that this Court is interpreting SHREYA

SINGHAL, while it is not, this Court is only answering the issue on

the submissions made by the learned Solicitor General with regard 163 to importation of American Doctrine on the strength of the

judgments rendered by 5 or 7 Judges of the Apex Court. 13.13. From a careful reading of the judicial

pronouncements of the Apex Court, whether emanating from

benches of 2 Judges or from collective wisdom of 7, a single

unwavering chord resounds that the wholesale importation

of American doctrines, particularly in the realm of free

speech, cannot be the touchstone for interpreting the

provisions of the Indian Constitution. The issue is answered

accordingly. ISSUE NO.5: 14. In the light of the enunciation in RENO being made

applicable to the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of

SHREYA SINGHAL and it being made the fulcrum of the 164 submissions of the petitioner, it becomes necessary to notice, the

judicial thought in RENO and its aftermath. 14.1. The Supreme Court of United States in RENO v. AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION supra holds as follows: Systems have been developed to help parents control the
 material that may be available on a home computer with
 Internet access. A system may either limit a computer's access
 to an approved list of sources that have been identified as 165 containing no adult material, it may block designated
inappropriate sites, or it may attempt to block messages
containing identifiable objectionable features. "Although parental
control software currently can screen for certain suggestive
words or for known sexually explicit sites, it cannot now screen
for sexually explicit images." Nevertheless, the evidence
indicates that "a reasonably effective method by which
parents can prevent their children from accessing
sexually explicit and other material which parents may
believe is inappropriate for their children will soon be
widely available." *** *** ***

 The first, 47 U. S. C. § 223(a) (1994 ed., Supp. II),
prohibits the knowing transmission of obscene or indecent
messages to any recipient under 18 years of age. It provides in
pertinent part: The second provision, § 223(d), prohibits the
 knowing sending or displaying of patently offensive
 messages in a manner that is available to a person
 under 18 years of age. It provides: The breadth of these prohibitions is qualified by two
affirmative defenses. See § 223(e)(5).26 One covers
those who take "good faith, reasonable, effective, and
appropriate actions" to restrict access by minors to the
prohibited communications. § 223(e)(5)(A). The other
covers those who restrict access to covered material by
requiring certain designated forms of age proof, such as a
verified credit card or an adult identification number or
code. § 223(e)(5)(B). *** *** ***

 In Southeastern Promotions, Ltd. v. Conrad, 420 U.
S. 546, 557 (1975), we observed that "[e]ach medium of 167 expression . . . may present its own problems." Thus,
some of our cases have recognized special justifications
for regulation of the broadcast media that are not
applicable to other speakers, see Red Lion Broadcasting
Co. v. FCC, 395 U. S. 367 (1969); FCC v. Pacifica
Foundation, 438 U. S. 726 (1978). In these cases, the
Court relied on the history of extensive Government
regulation of the broadcast medium, see, e. g., Red Lion,
395 U. S., at 399-400; the scarcity of available
frequencies at its inception, see, e. g., Turner
Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 512 U. S. 622, 637-638
(1994); and its "invasive" nature, see Sable
Communications of Cal., Inc. v. FCC, 492 U. S. 115 , 128
(1989) . Those factors are not present in cyberspace. Neither
before nor after the enactment of the CDA have the vast
democratic forums of the Internet been subject to the type of
government supervision and regulation that has attended the
broadcast industry. Moreover, the Internet is not as
"invasive" as radio or television. The District Court
specifically found that "[c]ommunications over the
Internet do not 'invade' an individual's home or appear
on one's computer screen unbidden. Users seldom
encounter content 'by accident.' " 929 F. Supp., at 844 (finding 88). It also found that "[a]lmost all sexually explicit images are
preceded by warnings as to the content," and cited testimony
that " 'odds are slim' that a user would come across a sexually
explicit sight by accident." Ibid

 *** *** ***

 The vagueness of the CDA is a matter of special
concern for two reasons. First, the CDA is a content-
based regulation of speech. The vagueness of such a
regulation raises special First Amendment concerns
because of its obvious chilling effect on free speech. See,
e. g., Gentile v. State Bar of Nev., 501 U. S. 1030, 1048-1051
(1991). Second, the CDA is a criminal statute. In addition to the
opprobrium and stigma of a criminal conviction, the CDA
threatens violators with penalties including up to two years in
prison for each act of violation. The severity of criminal
sanctions may well cause speakers to remain silent 168 rather than communicate even arguably unlawful words,
 ideas, and images. See, e. g., Dombrowski v. Pfister, 380
 U. S. 479, 494 (1965). As a practical matter, this
 increased deterrent effect, coupled with the "risk of
 discriminatory enforcement" of vague regulations, poses
 greater First Amendment concerns than those implicated
 by the civil regulation reviewed in Denver Area Ed.
 Telecommunications Consortium, Inc. v. FCC, 518 U. S.
 727 (1996)." (Emphasis supplied)

In its seminal decision in RENO, the United States Supreme Court

was confronted for the first time, the question of how the first

amendment, would apply to the emerging realm of cyberspace. The Court observes that unlike radio and television, whose voices

resound in every home, the internet was not so intrusive nor so

unrelenting in its reach, one had to seek it out to open its portals,

much like, one might turn the pages of a book or unfold the sheets

of a newspaper. On the said reasoning, the Court observed that

internet was not the pervasively invasive domain of

broadcasting. So it concluded that internet could not be cast

as a singularly pernicious force. 14.2. Yet, time has its way of reshaping realities. What

was once an infant technology grew with extraordinary 169 velocity into a vast and omnipresent sphere of human

interaction. The internet once regarded as a distant cousin of

printing press became an inseparable fabric of everyday life. In

such circumstances, and in the face of this exponential growth, the

Amercan Supreme Court was compelled, in subsequent cases, to

revisit the assertions laid down in RENO, and to reconsider how

freedom of speech might be preserved, amidst the immense and

ever-expanding reach of the digital age. The judicial thought thus

changed in the subsequent cases. 14.3. The American Supreme Court in the case of MOODY,

ATTORNEY GENERAL OF FLORIDA v. NETCHOICE, LLC, DBA

NETCHOICE 22, holds as follows: (Emphasis supplied)

The Supreme Court of the United States once again found itself at

the crossroads of law and technology, as it confronted challenges to

certain censorship measures, enacted by individual states. In

resolving the conundrum the Court could not help, but revisit

its earlier pronouncement in RENO - once the lodestar of

internet jurisprudence. 14.4. The American Supreme Court, again in the case of

TIKTOK INC. v. MERRICK B. GARLAND 23, has held as follows: we afford the Government to design regulatory solutions to
 address content-neutral interests. Turner II, 520 U. S., at 213. (Emphasis supplied)

The Court noted, with grave concern, that digital intermediaries,

the great platforms of the age, cloak in secrecy and vary algorithms

that dictate what billions see here and read. The Court reflected

upon artificial intelligence and described it to be a creation without

reins, a force evolving at a pace beyond the reach of human control

and fraught with profound implications for liberty itself. The Court

ignores RENO. 14.5. The American Supreme Court, again in the case of

FREE SPEECH COALITION INC. v. PAXTON, ATTORNEY

GENERAL OF TEXAS 24, has held as follows: 133. The CDA criminalized using the internet to knowingly
 transmit "obscene or indecent messages" to a minor, or to
 knowingly send or display "patently offensive messages in a
 manner that is available to" a minor. 521 U. S., at 859-860. It
 provided an affirmative defense to "those who restrict access to
 covered material by requiring certain designated forms of age
 proof." Id., at 860-861. We held that the CDA violated the First Amendment
 because it "effectively suppresses a large amount of speech that
 adults have a constitutional right to receive." Id., at 874. The
 CDA's age-verification defense was illusory because, in many
 cases, "existing technology did not include any effective method
 for a sender to prevent minors from obtaining access to its
 communications on the Internet without also denying access to
 adults." Id., at 876.4 And, even as to minors, the CDA swept
 far beyond obscenity. Fairly read, the terms "'indecent'" and
 "'patently offensive'" encompassed "large amounts of
 nonpornographic material with serious educational or other
 value." Id., at 877. The Act was thus a "content-based
 restriction" of protected speech that could not survive strict
 scrutiny. Id., at 879. After Reno, Congress passed the Children's Online
 Privacy Protection Act of 1998 (COPA), 112 Stat. 2681-
 728, which we addressed in Ashcroft v. American Civil
 Liberties Union, 542 U. S. 656 (2004) (Ashcroft II).
 COPA criminalized posting "content that is 'harmful to 24 606 US _____ (2025) 177 minors'" online for "'commercial purposes.'" Id., at 661
(quoting 47 U. S. C. §231(a)(1)). The Act defined such content
as material that is obscene under the Miller test, as adjusted to
minors. 542 U. S., at 661-662 (citing §231(e)(6)). It also
provided "an affirmative defense to those who employ specified
means to prevent minors from gaining access to the prohibited
materials on their Web site," such as requiring the use of a
credit card or a digital certificate that verifies age. Id., at 662
(citing §231(c)(1)). Soon after COPA's passage, a District Court
preliminarily enjoined its enforcement, holding that the Act
likely violated the First Amendment. Id., at 663. This Court held that the injunction was not an abuse of
discretion. Id., at 664-665. The parties agreed that COPA was
subject to strict scrutiny. So too did this Court, which briefly
noted that this was so because COPA "'effectively suppresses a
large amount of speech that adults have a constitutional right to
receive and to address to one another.'" Id., at 665 (quoting
Reno, 521 U. S., at 874). We then focused our analysis on
whether the Government had shown that it was likely to satisfy
its burden under strict scrutiny. 542 U. S., at 666-670. We held
that it had not, because the Government had not ruled out that
it could protect children just as well through the less restrictive
means of encouraging parents to install blocking and filtering
software on their computers. Ibid. We also noted that age
verification was "only an affirmative defense," meaning that
even speakers adopting an approved verification method might
be forced to "risk the perils of trial." Id., at 670-671; accord,
id., at 674 (Stevens, J., concurring). And, we leaned heavily on
the abuse-of-discretion standard, observing that "substantial
factual disputes remain[ed] in the case," and that "the factual
record does not reflect current technological reality" because it
was "over five years" old. Id., at 671 (majority opinion). For the past two decades, Ashcroft II has been our
last word on the government's power to protect children
from sexually explicit content online. During this period,
the "technology of the Internet" has continued to
"evolv[e] at a rapid pace." Ibid. With the rise of the
smartphone and instant streaming, many adolescents can
now access vast libraries of video content--both benign
and obscene--at almost any time and place, with an ease 178 that would have been unimaginable at the time of Reno
and Ashcroft II. *** *** ***

 Petitioners read Reno and Ashcroft II to establish a
comprehensive framework to govern all future attempts to
restrict children's access to online pornography. As we have
just explained, that view cannot be squared with those cases,
which addressed only outright bans on material that was
obscene to minors but not to adults. Petitioners also fail to
appreciate the context in which those cases were
decided. This Court decided both cases when the internet
was "still more of a prototype than a finished product"--
Reno in 1997 and Ashcroft II in 2004, with factual
findings made in 1999. A. Kennedy, The Rough Guide to
the Internet 493 (8th ed. 2002) (Kennedy). We were
mindful that "judicial answers" to "the totally new
problems" presented by new technology are necessarily
"truncated," and that in such circumstances "we ought
not to anticipate" questions beyond those immediately
presented. Northwest Airlines, Inc. v. Minnesota, 322 U. S. 292 , 300 (1944); accord, TikTok Inc. v. Garland, 604 U.
S. ___, ___-___ (2025) (per curiam) (slip op., at 1-2).
We did not purport to decide more than the specific
circumstances of the cases that were before us. The Court in Reno was quite concerned about the
unique threat that the CDA posed to the development of
the then nascent internet. Reno was this Court's first
decision about the internet. In describing the background
of the case, we "felt the need to explain . . . that the
'Internet is an international network of interconnected
computers,'" NetChoice, 603 U. S., at 713-714 (quoting
Reno, 521 U. S., at 849), and we marveled that the
internet had grown to 40 million users worldwide, id., at 850. In resolving the case, the Court was keenly aware that the
"wholly unprecedented" "breadth of the CDA's coverage" (Emphasis supplied)

The Courts in the United States, now began to recognize intrinsic

differences in media technologies. Broadcasting's inherent

limitations justified a more regulatory approach. The functional

realities of modern internet diverge sharply from the assumptions in

RENO. The effect is that RENO is refused to be followed, even by

the American Supreme Court. The American Supreme Court, in fact,

holds that RENO is now vintage. It was rendered when the growth

of internet was abysmally low and today the growth of internet is 181 unimaginably high. Likewise, every jurisdiction of the world has

controlled and regulated, the growth of media, with particular

reference to social media. EUROPEAN UNION - ON REGULATING FREE SPEECH: 25 Application No. 64569/09 decided on 16.06.2015 182 12. The legal dispute between the parties relates to
 whether the defendant as an entrepreneur is the publisher
 within the meaning of the Obligations Act, whether what
 was published (the content of comments) is unlawful, and
 whether the defendant is liable for the publication of
 comments with unlawful content. 13. The Chamber agrees with the conclusion of the
 Court of Appeal that the defendant does not fall within the
 circumstances precluding liability as specified in section 10 of the ISSA [Information Society Services Act]. According to section 2(6) of the Technical Regulations
and Standards Act, an information society service is a service
specified in section 2(1) of the ISSA. According to this provision,
'information society services' are services provided in the form
of economic or professional activities at the direct request of a
recipient of the services, without the parties being
simultaneously present at the same location, and such services
involve the processing, storage or transmission of data by
electronic means intended for the digital processing and storage
of data. Hence, important conditions for the provision of
information society services are that the services are provided
without the physical presence of the parties, the data are
transmitted by electronic means, and the service is provided for
a fee on the basis of a request by the user of the service. Sections 8 to 11 of the ISSA establish the liability of
providers of different information society services. Section 10 of
the ISSA states that where a service is provided that consists of
the storage of information provided by a recipient of the service,
the service provider is not liable for the information stored at
the request of a recipient of the service, on condition that: (a)
the provider does not have actual knowledge of the contents of
the information and, as regards claims for damages, is not
aware of any facts or circumstances indicating any illegal
activity or information; (b) the provider, upon having knowledge
or becoming aware of the aforementioned facts, acts
expeditiously to remove or to disable access to the information.
Hence, the provision in question is applied in the event that the
service provided consists in storing data on [the service
provider's] server and enabling users to have access to these
data. Subject to the conditions specified in section 10 of the
ISSA, the provider of such a service is exempted from liability 183 for the content of information stored by it, because the provider
of the service merely fulfils the role of an intermediary within
the meaning of the provision referred to, and does not initiate or
modify the information. Since the Information Society Services Act is based on
Directive 2000/31/EC of the European Parliament and of the
Council on certain legal aspects of information society services,
in particular electronic commerce, in the Internal Market
(Directive on electronic commerce), the principles and
objectives of that Directive must also be taken into account in
the interpretation of the provisions of the Act in question. Articles 12 to 15 of the Directive, which form the basis for sections 8 to 11 of the ISSA, are complemented by Recital 42 of
the preamble to the Directive, according to which the
exemptions from liability established in Articles 12 to 15 cover
only cases where the activity of the information society service
provider is limited to the technical process of operating and
giving access to a communication network over which
information made available by third parties is transmitted or
temporarily stored, for the sole purpose of making the
transmission more efficient; this activity is of a mere technical,
automatic and passive nature, which implies that the
information society service provider has neither knowledge of
nor control over the information which is transmitted or stored.
Hence, the providers of so-called 'content services' who have
control over the content of the information stored cannot rely on
the exemptions specified in Articles 12 to 15 of the Directive. The Chamber shares the opinion of the Court of Appeal
that the activities of the defendant in publishing the comments
are not merely of a technical, automatic and passive nature. The
objective of the defendant is not merely the provision of an
intermediary service. The defendant has integrated the
comments section into its news portal, inviting visitors to the
website to complement the news with their own judgments
[hinnangud] and opinions (comments). In the comments
section, the defendant actively calls for comments on the
news items appearing on the portal. The number of visits
to the defendant's portal depends on the number of
comments; the revenue earned from advertisements
published on the portal, in turn, depends on the [number
of visits]. Thus, the defendant has an economic interest 184 in the posting of comments. The fact that the defendant is
not the author of the comments does not mean that the
defendant has no control over the comments section. The
defendant sets out the rules for the comments section
and makes changes to it (removes a comment) if those
rules are breached. By contrast, a user of the defendant's
service cannot change or delete a comment he or she has
posted. He or she can only report an inappropriate
comment. Thus, the defendant can determine which of
the comments added will be published and which will not
be published. The fact that the defendant does not make
use of this possibility does not lead to the conclusion that
the publishing of comments is not under the defendant's
control. The Chamber agrees with the opinion of the Court of
Appeal that the defendant, which governs the information stored
in the comments section, provides a content service, for which
reason the circumstances precluding liability, as specified in section 10 of the ISSA, do not apply in the present case....... *** *** *** 127. The Court considers that, in substance, the
applicant company argues that the domestic courts erred in
applying the general provisions of the Obligations Act to the
facts of the case as they should have relied upon the domestic
and European legislation on Internet service providers. Like the
Chamber, the Grand Chamber reiterates in this context that it is
not its task to take the place of the domestic courts. It is
primarily for the national authorities, notably the courts, to
interpret and apply domestic law (see, among others, Centro
Europa 7 S.r.l. and Di Stefano, cited above, § 140, and
Rekvényi v. Hungary [GC], no. 25390/94, § 35, ECHR
1999‑III). The Court also reiterates that it is not for it to
express a view on the appropriateness of methods chosen
by the legislature of a respondent State to regulate a
given field. Its task is confined to determining whether the
methods adopted and the effects they entail are in conformity
with the Convention (see Gorzelik and Others v. Poland [GC],
no. 44158/98, § 67, ECHR 2004‑I). Thus, the Court confines
itself to examining whether the Supreme Court's application of
the general provisions of the Obligations Act to the applicant
company's situation was foreseeable for the purposes of Article
10 § 2 of the Convention.127. The Court considers that, in 185 substance, the applicant company argues that the domestic
courts erred in applying the general provisions of the
Obligations Act to the facts of the case as they should have
relied upon the domestic and European legislation on Internet
service providers. Like the Chamber, the Grand Chamber
reiterates in this context that it is not its task to take the place
of the domestic courts. It is primarily for the national
authorities, notably the courts, to interpret and apply domestic
law (see, among others, Centro Europa 7 S.r.l. and Di Stefano,
cited above, § 140, and Rekvényi v. Hungary [GC], no.
25390/94, § 35, ECHR 1999‑III). The Court also reiterates that
it is not for it to express a view on the appropriateness of
methods chosen by the legislature of a respondent State to
regulate a given field. Its task is confined to determining
whether the methods adopted and the effects they entail are in
conformity with the Convention (see Gorzelik and Others v.
Poland [GC], no. 44158/98, § 67, ECHR 2004‑I). Thus, the
Court confines itself to examining whether the Supreme Court's
application of the general provisions of the Obligations Act to
the applicant company's situation was foreseeable for the
purposes of Article 10 § 2 of the Convention. *** *** *** 159. Lastly, the Court observes that the applicant
company has argued (see paragraph 78 above) that the Court
should have due regard to the notice-and-take-down system
that it had introduced. If accompanied by effective procedures
allowing for rapid response, this system can in the Court's view
function in many cases as an appropriate tool for balancing the
rights and interests of all those involved. However, in cases
such as the present one, where third-party user
comments are in the form of hate speech and direct
threats to the physical integrity of individuals, as
understood in the Court's case-law (see paragraph 136
above), the Court considers, as stated above (see
paragraph 153), that the rights and interests of others
and of society as a whole may entitle Contracting States
to impose liability on Internet news portals, without
contravening Article 10 of the Convention, if they fail to
take measures to remove clearly unlawful comments
without delay, even without notice from the alleged
victim or from third parties." (Emphasis supplied) 186 14.7. In MAGYAR TARTALOMSZOLGÁLTATÓK

EGYESÜLETE AND INDEX.HU ZRT v. HUNGARY26, it has held as

follows: ".... .... .... 37. The applicants furthermore contended that imposing
 strict liability on online publications for all third-party contents
 would amount to a duty imposed on websites to prevent the
 posting, for any period of time, of any user-generated content
 that might be defamatory. Such a duty would place an undue
 burden on many protagonists of the Internet scene and produce
 significant censoring, or even complete elimination, of user
 comments to steer clear of legal trouble - whereas those
 comments tend to enrich and democratise online debates. 38. It was noteworthy that the law of the European
 Union and some national jurisdictions contained less
 restrictive rules for the protection of rights of others and
 to manage liability of hosting service providers. Indeed,
 the application of the "notice and take down" rule was
 the adequate way of enforcing the protection of
 reputation of others. 39. The stance of the Hungarian authorities had resulted
 in disproportionate restriction on the applicants' freedom of
 expression in that they had had to face a successful civil action
 against them, even though they had removed the disputed
 contents at once after they had learnt, from the court action,
 that the company concerned had perceived them as injurious. Application No. 22947/13, European Court of Human Rights, decided
on 02/05/2016 187 The legal procedure, along with the fees payable, must be seen
as having a chilling effect. 40. To conclude, the applicants maintained that the
simple application of the traditional rules of editorial
responsibility, namely strict liability, was not the answer to the
new challenges of the digital era. Imposing strict liability on
online publications for all third-party content would have serious
adverse repercussions for the freedom of expression and the
democratic openness in the age of Internet. *** *** *** 68. The Court has already had occasion to lay down the
relevant principles which must guide its assessment in the area
of balancing the protection of freedom of expression as
enshrined in Article 10 and the protection of the reputation of
those against whom allegations were made, a right which, as an
aspect of private life, is protected by Article 8 of the Convention.
It identified a number of relevant criteria, out of which the
particularly pertinent in the present case, to which the Court will
revert below, are: contribution to a debate of public interest, the
subject of the report, the prior conduct of the person concerned,
the content, form and consequences of the publication, and the
gravity of the penalty imposed on the journalists or publishers
(see Couderc and Hachette Filipacchi Associés v. France [GC],
cited above, § 93; Von Hannover v. (no. 2), cited above, §§ 108
to 113, ECHR 2012; and Axel Springer AG, cited above, §§ 90-
95, 7 February 2012). At this juncture the Court would add that
the outcome of such a balancing performed by the domestic
courts will be acceptable in so far as those courts applied the
appropriate criteria and, moreover, weighed the relative
importance of each criterion with due respect paid to the
particular circumstances of the case. 69. In the case of Delfi AS, the Grand Chamber
identified the following specific aspects of freedom of
expression in terms of protagonists playing an
intermediary role on the Internet, as being relevant for
the concrete assessment of the interference in question: 70. These latter criteria were established so as to
assess the liability of large Internet news portals for not
having removed from their websites, without delay after
publication, comments that amounted to hate speech and
incitement to violence. However, for the Court, they are
also relevant for the assessment of the proportionality of
the interference in the present case, free of the pivotal
element of hate speech. It is therefore convenient to
examine the balancing, if any, performed by the domestic
courts and the extent to which the relevant criteria (see
Von Hannover (no. 2), cited above, §§ 108 to 113) were
applied in that process, with regard to the specific
aspects dictated by the applicants' respective positions
(see Delfi AS, cited above, §§ 142-43). *** *** *** 77. Without losing sight of the effects of
defamation on the Internet, especially given the ease,
scope and speed of the dissemination of information (see
Delfi AS, cited above,§ 147), the Court also considers that
regard must be had to the specificities of the style of
communication on certain Internet portals. For the Court,
the expressions used in the comments, albeit belonging
to a low register of style, are common in communication
on many Internet portals - a consideration that reduces
the impact that can be attributed to those expressions. (iii) Liability of the authors of the comments 78. As regards the establishment, in the civil
proceedings, of the commentators' identities, the Court notes
that the domestic authorities did not at all address its feasibility
or the lack of it. The Constitutional Court restricted its analysis
to stating that the injured party was unlikely to receive any
compensation without the liability of the operator of the Internet
portal. At this juncture, the Court notes that there is no
appearance that the domestic courts enquired into the 189 conditions of commenting as such or into the system of
registration enabling readers to make comments on the
applicants' websites. 79. The national courts were satisfied that it was the
applicants that bore a certain level of liability for the comments,
since they had "disseminated" defamatory statements (see
paragraph 42 above), however without embarking on a
proportionality analysis of the liability of the actual authors of
the comments and that of the applicants. For the Court, the
conduct of the applicants providing platform for third-
parties to exercise their freedom of expression by posting
comments is a journalistic activity of a particular nature
(see Delfi AS, cited above, §§ 112-13). Even accepting
the domestic courts' qualification of the applicants'
conduct as "disseminating" defamatory statements, the
applicant's liability is difficult to reconcile with the
existing case-law according to which "punishment of a
journalist for assisting in the dissemination of statements
made by another person in an interview would seriously
hamper the contribution of the press to discussion of
matters of public interest and should not be envisaged
unless there are particularly strong reasons for doing so" 80. The Court observes that although the applicants
immediately removed the comments in question from their
websites upon notification of the initiation of civil proceedings
(see paragraphs 15 above), the Kúria found them liable on the
basis of the Civil Code, since by enabling readers to make
comments on those websites and in connection to the impugned
article, they had assumed objective liability for any injurious or
unlawful comments made by those readers. As the Budapest
Court of Appeal held, the circumstances of removing the
comments were not a matter relevant for the assessment of 190 objective liability but one for the assessment of any
 compensation (see paragraph 20 above). 81. The Court observes that the applicants took
 certain general measures to prevent defamatory
 comments on their portals or to remove them. Both
 applicants had a disclaimer in their General terms and
 conditions stipulating that the writers of comments -
 rather than the applicants - were accountable for the
 comments. The posting of comments injurious to the
 rights of third parties were prohibited. Furthermore,
 according to the Rules of moderation of the second applicant,
 "unlawful comments" were also prohibited. The second applicant
 set up a team of moderators performing partial follow-up
 moderation of comments posted on its portal. In addition, both
 applicants had a notice-and-take-down system in place,
 whereby anybody could indicate unlawful comments to the
 service provider so that they be removed. The moderators and
 the service providers could remove comments deemed unlawful
 at their discretion (see paragraphs 7-10 above)." (Emphasis supplied)

 14.8. In the case of SANCHEZ v. FRANCE27, it is held as

follows: ".... .... .... 140. Lastly, as to the question of the point in time from
 which the producer is deemed to have had knowledge of the
 unlawful remarks, the Court notes that section 93-3 of Law no.
 82-652 of 29 July 1982 indeed remains silent (see paragraph 37
 above), leaving the matter to be decided by the relevant
 domestic courts on a case-by-case basis. Moreover, at the
 material time, the domestic law did not require any prior
 representation by a victim vis-à-vis the producer, unlike the rule 27 Application No. 45581/15, European Court of Human Rights, decided
on 15/05/2023 191 then applying to "hosts" such as Facebook (see paragraph 45
above). The Court would again point out that it is not its task to
express a view on the appropriateness of methods chosen by
the legislature of a respondent State to regulate a given field
(see paragraph 128 above). The lack of a system of prior
notification to the producer cannot therefore in itself raise a
difficulty in terms of the lawfulness of the interference,
regardless of any difference in relation to the regime that may
be applicable to hosts (see paragraph 45 above). The Court
would, moreover, reiterate that in cases where third-
party user comments take the form of hate speech, the
rights and interests of others and of society as a whole
may entitle Contracting States to impose liability on the
relevant Internet news portals, without contravening Article 10 of the Convention, if they fail to take measures
to remove clearly unlawful comments without delay, even
without notice from the alleged victim or from third
parties (see Delfi AS, cited above, § 159). Even though
the applicant's situation cannot be compared to that of an
Internet news portal (see paragraph 180 below), the
Court sees no reason to hold otherwise in the present
case. A situation entailing the judicial interpretation of
principles contained in statute law will not in itself necessarily
fall foul of the requirement that the law be framed in sufficiently
precise terms, as the role of adjudication vested in the courts
serves precisely to dissipate such interpretational doubts as
remain (see paragraphs 126 et seq. above). *** *** *** 158. The Internet has become one of the principal
means by which individuals exercise their right to
freedom of expression. It provides essential tools for
participation in activities and discussions concerning
political issues and issues of general interest (see
Vladimir Kharitonov v. Russia, no. 10795/14, § 33, 23
June 2020, and Melike v. Turkey, no. 35786/19, § 44, 15
June 2021). 159. The possibility for user-generated expressive
activity on the Internet provides an unprecedented platform for
the exercise of freedom of expression (see Delfi AS, cited above,
§ 110; Times Newspapers Ltd v. the United Kingdom (nos. 1 192 and 2), nos. 3002/03 and 23676/03, § 27, ECHR 2009; and
Ahmet Yıldırım v. Turkey, no. 3111/10, § 48, ECHR 2012).
Given the important role played by the Internet in enhancing
the public's access to news and in generally facilitating the
dissemination of information (see Delfi AS, cited above, § 133),
the function of bloggers and popular users of social media may
be assimilated to that of a "public watchdog" in so far as the
protection afforded by Article 10 is concerned (see Magyar
Helsinki Bizottság v. Hungary [GC], no. 18030/11, § 168, 8
November 2016). 160. As the Court has previously observed, the
Internet has fostered the "emergence of citizen
journalism", as political content ignored by the traditional
media is often disseminated via websites to a large
number of users, who are then able to view, share and
comment upon the information (see Cengiz and Others v.
Turkey, nos. 48226/10 and 14027/11, § 52, ECHR 2015
(extracts)). Generally speaking, the use of new technologies,
especially in the political field, is now commonplace, whether it
be the Internet or a mobile application "put in place by [a
political party] for voters to impart their political opinions", "but
also to convey a political message"; in other words, a mobile
application may become a tool "allowing [voters] to exercise
their right to freedom of expression" (see Magyar Kétfarkú
Kutya Párt, cited above, §§ 88-89). 161. However, the benefits of this information tool,
an electronic network serving billions of users worldwide
(see Editorial Board of Pravoye Delo and Shtekel v.
Ukraine, no. 33014/05, § 63, ECHR 2011 (extracts)),
carry a certain number of risks: the Internet is an
information and communication tool particularly distinct
from the printed media, especially as regards the capacity
to store and transmit information, and the risk of harm
posed by content and communications on the Internet to
the exercise and enjoyment of human rights and
freedoms, particularly the right to respect for private life,
is certainly higher than that posed by the press (see
Bonnet, cited above, § 43; Société éditrice de Mediapart and
Others v. France, nos. 281/15 and 34445/15, § 88, 14 January
2021; M.L. and W.W. v. Germany, nos. 60798/10 and
65599/10, § 91, 28 June 2018; Cicad v. Switzerland, no. 17676/09, § 59, 7 June 2016; and Editorial Board of Pravoye
 Delo and Shtekel, cited above, § 63). 162. Defamatory and other types of clearly
 unlawful speech, including hate speech and speech
 inciting violence, can be disseminated as never before,
 worldwide, in a matter of seconds, and sometimes remain
 available online for lengthy periods (see Savva Terentyev
 v. Russia, no. 10692/09, § 79, 28 August 2018, and Savcı
 Çengel v. Turkey (dec.), no. 30697/19, § 35, 18 May
 2021). Bearing in mind the need to protect the values
 underlying the Convention, and considering that the
 rights under Articles 10 and 8 of the Convention deserve
 equal respect, a balance must be struck that retains the
 essence of both rights. While the Court acknowledges that
 important benefits can be derived from the Internet in the
 exercise of freedom of expression, it has also found that the
 possibility of imposing liability for defamatory or other types of
 unlawful speech must, in principle, be retained, constituting an
 effective remedy for violations of personality rights (see Delfi
 AS, cited above, § 110)." (Emphasis supplied)

 14.9. In the case of EDITORIAL BOARD OF PRAVOYE

 DELO AND SHTEKEL v. UKRAINE28, it is held as follows: ".... .... .... 63. It is true that the Internet is an information and
 communication tool particularly distinct from the printed media,
 especially as regards the capacity to store and transmit
 information. The electronic network, serving billions of users
 worldwide, is not and potentially will never be subject to the
 same regulations and control. The risk of harm posed by
 content and communications on the Internet to the
 exercise and enjoyment of human rights and freedoms, 28 Application No. 33014/05, European Court of Human Rights, decided
on 05/05/2011 194 particularly the right to respect for private life, is
 certainly higher than that posed by the press. Therefore,
 the policies governing reproduction of material from the
 printed media and the Internet may differ. The latter
 undeniably have to be adjusted according to the technology's
 specific features in order to secure the protection and promotion
 of the rights and freedoms concerned." (Emphasis supplied)

In a singular voice, the American Supreme Court found it necessary

to distance itself from RENO. Therefore, it loses its steam as a

binding compass and is treated as a vintage decision, a

pronouncement rendered in an era when internets' reach, was

abysmally modest. In today's age, when the internet has grown to

proportions unimaginably vast, the American Supreme Court holds

that the reasoning of RENO no longer holds sway. This evolution

is not unique to the United States. The Courts in the

European Union have thought it fit to follow suit. Across the

world, every jurisdiction has sought through law, regulation

and policy to temper the growth of media technologies with

particular vigilance directed at the pervasive influence of

social media. Thus, there is a paradigm shift in the thought

process, in the aftermath of RENO. Therefore, the judgment

in RENO or any judgment foundationed on RENO is to be 195 restricted as one rendered when the internet was not all

pervasive. The issue is thus answered. ISSUE NO.6: 15. To consider the said issue, it is germane to notice the

regulatory regime, subsisting at the time when the Apex Court

considered the issue in SHREYA SINGHAL. THE REGULATORY REGIME THEN: WHEREAS the General Assembly of the United Nations by
 resolution A/RES/51/162, dated the 30th January, 1997 has
 adopted the Model Law on Electronic Commerce adopted by the
 United Nations Commission on International Trade Law; AND whereas the said resolution recommends inter alia,
 that all States give favourable consideration to the said Model
 Law when they enact or revise their laws, in view of the need for
 uniformity of the law applicable to alternatives to paper-based
 methods of communication and storage of information; AND whereas it is considered necessary to give
 effect to the said resolution and to promote efficient
 delivery of Government services by means of reliable
 electronic records." (Emphasis supplied)

The aforesaid objects and reasons, gave rise to the Information

Technology Act, 2000 . Certain provisions of the Act fell for 197 consideration in the case of SHREYA SINGHAL. They read as

follows: Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, terms
 "electronic mail" and "electronic mail message" means a
 message or information created or transmitted or received on a
 computer, computer system, computer resource or 198 communication device including attachments in text, image,
audio, video and any other electronic record, which may be
transmitted with the message." *** *** ***
 69-A. Power to issue directions for blocking for
public access of any information through any computer
resource.--(1) Where the Central Government or any of its
officers specially authorised by it in this behalf is satisfied that it
is necessary or expedient so to do, in the interest of sovereignty
and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State,
friendly relations with foreign States or public order or for
preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable
offence relating to above, it may subject to the provisions of
sub-section (2), for reasons to be recorded in writing, by order,
direct any agency of the Government or intermediary to block
for access by the public or cause to be blocked for access by the
public any information generated, transmitted, received, stored
or hosted in any computer resource. (2) The procedure and safeguards subject to which such
blocking for access by the public may be carried out, shall be
such as may be prescribed. (3) The intermediary who fails to comply with the
direction issued under sub-section (1) shall be punished with an
imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and
shall also be liable to fine. *** *** *** 79. Exemption from liability of intermediary in
certain cases.--(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any
law for the time being in force but subject to the provisions of
sub-sections (2) and (3), an intermediary shall not be liable for 199 any third party information, data, or communication link made
available or hosted by him. (2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply if-- (a) the function of the intermediary is limited to providing
access to a communication system over which information made
available by third parties is transmitted or temporarily stored or
hosted; or (b) the intermediary does not-- (i) initiate the transmission, (ii) select the receiver of the transmission, and (iii) select or modify the information contained in the
transmission; (c) the intermediary observes due diligence while
discharging his duties under this Act and also observes such
other guidelines as the Central Government may prescribe in
this behalf. (3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply if-- (a) the intermediary has conspired or abetted or aided or
induced, whether by threats or promise or otherwise in the
commission of the unlawful act; (b) upon receiving actual knowledge, or on being
notified162 by the appropriate Government or its agency that
any information, data or communication link residing in or
connected to a computer resource controlled by the
intermediary is being used to commit the unlawful act, the
intermediary fails to expeditiously remove or disable access to
that material on that resource without vitiating the evidence in
any manner. Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, the
expression "third party information" means any information
dealt with by an intermediary in his capacity as an intermediary. *** *** *** 87. Power of Central Government to make rules.--
(1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official 200 Gazette and in the Electronic Gazette, make rules to carry out
 the provisions of this Act. (2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality
 of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
 the following matters, namely:-- ...... ....... ..... (z) the procedure and safeguards for blocking for
 access by the public under sub-section (2) of Section 69- A; intermediaries under sub-section (2) of Section 79 ; ....... ....... ...... (3) Every notification made by the Central Government
 under sub-section (1) of Section 70-A and every rule made by
 it] shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each
 House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of
 thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or
 more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the
 session immediately following the session or the successive
 sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
 modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule
 should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in
 such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
 however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
 without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done
 under that notification or rule." (Emphasis supplied)

Need then arose to bring in an amendment to regulate alternative

methods of communication. Therefore, a Bill comes to be tabled

before the Parliament -Information Technology (Amendment) Bill

2006, which led to the Information Technology (Amendment) 201 Act, 2008. Certain Rules were promulgated along with, and post

amendment. One of the Rules notified in the year 2009 was, the

Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for

Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009. Since digital platforms were mushrooming and were spoken to as

intermediaries, the Government brings in Information

Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011. 15.2. The Rules that fell for consideration before the Apex

Court in SHREYA SINGHAL, inter alia, are as follows: (2) They shall come into force on the date of their
 publication in the Official Gazette. 2. Definitions.--In these rules, unless the context
 otherwise requires,-- (a) "Act" means the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21
 of 2000); (b) "computer resource" means computer resource as
 defined in clause (k) of sub-section (1) of Section 2 of
 the Act; (c) "designated officer" means an officer designated
 as Designated Officer under Rule 3; (d) "Form" means a form appended to these rules; (e) "intermediary" means an intermediary as defined in
 clause (w) of sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Act; (f) "nodal officer" means the nodal officer
 designated as such under Rule 4; (g) "organisation" means-- (iii) any agency of the Central Government, as
 may be notified in the Official Gazette, by
 the Central Government; (h) "request" means the request for blocking of assess by
 the public any information generated, transmitted,
 received, stored or hosted in any computer resource; (i) "review committee" means the Review Committee
 constituted under Rule 419-A of Indian Telegraph
 Rules, 1951. 3. Designated Officer.--The Central Government
shall designate by notification in Official Gazette, an
officer of the Central Government not below the rank of a
Joint Secretary, as the "Designated Officer", for the
purpose of issuing direction for blocking for access by the 203 public any information generated, transmitted, received,
stored or hosted in any computer resource under sub-
section (2) of Section 69-A of the Act. 4. Nodal officer of organisation.--Every organisation
for the purpose of these rules, shall designate one of its
officer as the Nodal Officer and shall intimate the same to
the Central Government in the Department of Information
Technology under the Ministry of Communications and
Information Technology, Government of India and also
publish the name of the said Nodal Officer on their
website. 5. Direction by Designated Officer.--The Designated
Officer may, on receipt of any request from the Nodal
Officer of an organisation or a competent court, by order
direct any Agency of the Government or intermediary to
block for access by the public any information or part
thereof generated, transmitted, received, stored or
hosted in any computer resource for any of the reasons
specified in sub-section (1) of Section 69-A of the Act. 6. Forwarding of request by organisation.--(1) Any
person may send their complaint to the Nodal Officer of
the concerned organisation for blocking of access by the
public any information generated, transmitted, received,
stored or hosted in any computer resource: 7. Committee for examination of request.--The
request along with the printed sample content of the
alleged offending information or part thereof shall be
examined by a committee consisting of the Designated
Officer as its chairperson and representatives, not below
the rank of Joint Secretary in Ministries of Law and
Justice, Home Affairs, Information and Broadcasting and
the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team
appointed under sub-section (1) of Section 70-B of the
Act. 8. Examination of request.--(1) On receipt of
request under Rule 6, the Designated Officer shall make
all reasonable efforts to identify the person or
intermediary who has hosted the information or part
thereof as well as the computer resource on which such
information or pert thereof is being hosted and where he
is able to identify such person or intermediary and the
computer resource hosting the information or part 205 thereof which have been requested to be blocked for
public access, he shall issue a notice by way of letters or
fax or e-mail signed with electronic signatures to such
person or intermediary in control of such computer
resource to appear and submit their reply and
clarifications, if any, before the committee referred to in
Rule 7, at a specified date and time, which shall not be
less than forty-eight hours from the time of receipt of
such notice by such person or intermediary. (2) In case of non-appearance of such person or
intermediary, who has been served with the notice under
sub-rule (1), before the committee on such specified date
and time, the committee shall give specific
recommendation in writing with respect to the request
received from the Nodal Officer, based on the information
available with the committee. (3) In case, such a person or intermediary, who has
been served with the notice under sub-rule (1), is a
foreign entity or body corporate as identified by the
Designated Officer, notice shall be sent by way of letters
of fax or e-mail signed with electronic signatures to such
foreign entity or body corporate and any such foreign
entity or body corporate shall respond to such a notice
within the time specified therein, failing which the
committee shall give specific recommendation in writing
with respect to the request received from the Nodal
Officer, based on the information available with the
committee. (4) The committee referred to in Rule 7 shall
examine the request and printed sample information and
consider whether the request is covered within the scope
of sub-section (1) of Section 69-A of the Act and that it is
justifiable to block such information or part thereof and
shall give specific recommendation in writing with
respect to the request received from the Nodal Officer. (5) The Designated Officer shall submit the
recommendation of the committee, in respect of the request for
blocking of information along with the details sent by the Nodal
Officer, to the Secretary in the Department of Information 206 Technology under the Ministry of Communications and
Information Technology, Government of India (Hereinafter
referred to as the "Secretary, Department of Information
Technology"). (6) The Designated Officer, on approval of the request by
the Secretary, Department of Information Technology, shall
direct any agency of the Government or the intermediary to
block the offending information generated, transmitted,
received, stored or hosted in their computer resource for public
access within the time limit specified in the direction: 9. Blocking of Information in cases of emergency.--
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Rules 7 and 8,
the Designated Officer, in any case of emergency nature,
for which no delay is acceptable, shall examine the
request and printed sample information and consider
whether the request is within the scope of sub-section
(1) of Section 69-A of the Act and it is necessary or
expedient and justifiable to block such information or
part thereof and submit the request with specific
recommendations in writing to Secretary, Department of
Information Technology. (2) In a case of emergency nature, the Secretary,
Department of Information Technology may, if he is
satisfied that it is necessary or expedient and justifiable
for blocking for public access of any information or part
thereof through any computer resource and after
recording reasons in writing, as an interim measure issue
such directions as he may consider necessary to such
identified or identifiable persons or intermediary in
control of such computer resource hosting such
information or part thereof without giving him an
opportunity of hearing. (3) The Designated Officer, at the earliest but not
later than forty-eight hours of issue of direction under 207 sub-rule (2), shall bring the request before the
committee referred to in Rule 7 for its consideration and
recommendation. (4) On receipt of recommendations of Committee,
Secretary, Department of Information Technology, shall
pass the final order as regard to approval of such request
and in case the request for blocking is not approved by
the Secretary, Department of Information Technology in
his final order, the interim direction issued under sub-
rule (2) shall be revoked and the person or intermediary
in control of such information shall be accordingly
directed to unblock the information for public access. 10. Process of order of court for blocking of
information.--In case of an order from a competent court
in India for blocking of any information or part thereof
generated, transmitted, received, stored or hosted in a
computer resource, the Designated Officer shall,
immediately on receipt of certified copy of the court
order, submit it to the Secretary, Department of
Information Technology and initiate action as directed by
the court. 11. Expeditious disposal of request.--The request
received from the Nodal Officer shall be decided expeditiously
which in no case shall be more than seven working days from
the date of receipt of the request. 12. Action for non-compliance of direction by
intermediary.--In case the intermediary fails to comply with
the direction issued to him under Rule 9, the Designated Officer
shall, with the prior approval of the Secretary, Department of
Information Technology, initiate appropriate action as may be
required to comply with the provisions of sub-section (3) of Section 69-A of the Act. 13. Intermediary to designate one person to receive
and handle directions.--(1) Every intermediary shall
designate at least one person to receive and handle the
directions for blocking of access by the public any information
generated, transmitted, received, stored or hosted in any
computer resource under these rules. (2) The designated person of the intermediary shall
 acknowledge receipt of the directions to the Designated Officer
 within two hours on receipt of the direction through
 acknowledgement letter or fax or e-mail signed with electronic
 signature. 14. Meeting of Review Committee.--The Review
 Committee shall meet at least once in two months and
 record its findings whether the directions issued under
 these rules are in accordance with the provisions of sub-
 section (1) of Section 69-A of the Act and if is of the
 opinion that the directions are not in accordance with the
 provisions referred to above , it may set aside the
 directions and issue order for unblocking of said
 information generated, transmitted, received, stored or
 hosted in a computer resource for public access. 15. Maintenance of records by Designated Officer.--
 The Designated Officer shall maintain complete record of the
 request received and action taken thereof, in electronic
 database and also in register of the cases of blocking for public
 access of the information generated, transmitted, received,
 stored or hosted in a computer resource. 16. Requests and complaints to be confidential.--
 Strict confidentiality shall be maintained regarding all the
 requests and complaints received and actions taken
 thereof." (Emphasis supplied)

The other set of Rules are the IT Rules, 2011. The Rules that the

Apex Court considers are as follows: The intermediary shall observe following due diligence
while discharging his duties, namely:-- mail signed with electronic signature about any such
information as mentioned in sub-rule (2) above, shall act
within thirty-six hours and where applicable, work with
user or owner of such information to disable such
information that is in contravention of sub-rule (2).
Further the intermediary shall preserve such information
and associated records for at least ninety days for
investigation purposes. (5) The intermediary shall inform its users that in case of
non-compliance with rules and regulations, user agreement and
privacy policy for access or usage of intermediary computer
resource, the Intermediary has the right to immediately
terminate the access or usage lights of the users to the
computer resource of Intermediary and remove non-compliant
information. (6) The intermediary shall strictly follow the provisions of
the Act or any other laws for the time being in force. (7) When required by lawful order, the
intermediary shall provide information or any such
assistance to Government Agencies who are lawfully
authorised for investigative, protective, cyber security
activity. The information or any such assistance shall be
provided for the purpose of verification of identity, or for
prevention, detection, investigation, prosecution, cyber
security incidents and punishment of offences under any
law for the time being in force, on a request in writing
stating clearly the purpose of seeking such information or
any such assistance. (8) The intermediary shall take all reasonable measures
to secure its computer resource and information contained
therein following the reasonable security practices and
procedures as prescribed in the Information Technology 212 (Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures and Sensitive
 Personal Information) Rules, 2011. (9) The intermediary shall report cyber security incidents
 and also share cyber security incidents related information with
 the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team. (10) The intermediary shall not knowingly deploy or
 install or modify the technical configuration of computer
 resource or become party to any such act which may change or
 has the potential to change the normal course of operation of
 the computer resource than what it is supposed to perform
 thereby circumventing any law for the time being in force: (Emphasis supplied)

 15.3. On interpretation, the Apex Court in SHREYA SINGHAL

holds as follows: (Emphasis supplied)

What fell for interpretation to draw up the aforesaid order in

SHREYA SINGHAL is found in paragraph 118 to 123 of the said

judgment noted supra. Therefore, the Apex Court interpreted Sections 66A , 69A and 79 of the IT Act, the Blocking Rules, 2009

and the IT Rules, 2011. Sections 69A and 79 of the IT Act and the

Blocking Rules, 2009, which were held to be constitutionally valid,

under the challenge to the constitutional validity, they remain the

same even today. What is changed is, the IT Rules, 2011, it is 214 superseded by a new set of Rules called the IT Rules, 2021. Therefore, the Apex Court interprets a statute i.e., the IT Rules,

2011, which no longer is in subsistence. 15.4. The entire fulcrum of the subject lis revolves round the

Act and the new Rules - the IT Rules, 2021. Therefore, there is

change in the Rules. It becomes germane to notice certain

provisions of the IT Rules, 2021. PART II
 DUE DILIGENCE BY INTERMEDIARIES AND GRIEVANCE
 REDRESSAL MECHANISM 3. (1) Due diligence by an intermediary: An
intermediary, including a social media intermediary, a
significant social media intermediary and an online
gaming intermediary, shall observe the following due
diligence while discharging its duties, namely-- (a) the intermediary shall prominently publish on its website,
 mobile based application or both, as the case may be, the
 rules and regulations, privacy policy and user agreement
 in English or any language specified in the Eighth
 Schedule to the Constitution for access or usage of its
 computer resource by any person in the language of his
 choice and ensure compliance of the same; (b) the intermediary shall inform its rules and regulations,
 privacy policy and user agreement to the user in English
 or any language specified in the Eighth Schedule to the
 Constitution in the language of his choice and shall make
 reasonable efforts by itself, and to cause the users of its
 computer resource to not host display, upload, modify,
 publish, transmit, store, update or share any information
 that,-- (i) belongs to another person and to which the user
 does not have any right; (ii) is obscene, pornographic, paedophilic, invasive
 of another's privacy including bodily privacy,
 insulting or harassing on the basis of gender,
 racially or ethnically objectionable, relating or
 encouraging money laundering or gambling, or
 an online game that causes user harm, or
 promoting enmity between different groups on
 the grounds of religion or caste with the intent
 to incite violence; (iii) is harmful to child; (iv) infringes any patent, trademark, copyright or
 other proprietary rights; (v) deceives or misleads the addressee about the
 origin of the message or knowingly and
 intentionally communicates any misinformation
 or information which is patently false and
 untrue or misleading in nature or, in respect of
 any business of the Central Government, is
 identified as fake or false or misleading by such
 fact check unit of the Central Government as
 the Ministry may, by notification published in
 the Official Gazette, specify; or sovereignty of India, friendly relations with
 foreign States, or public order, or causes
 incitement to the commission of any cognizable
 offence, or prevents investigation of any
 offence, or is insulting other nation; (viii) contains software virus or any other computer
 code, file or program designed to interrupt,
 destroy or limit the functionality of any
 computer resource; (ix) is in the nature of an online game that is not
 verified as a permissible online game; (x) is in the nature of advertisement or surrogate
 advertisement or promotion of an online game
 that is not a permissible online game, or of any 218 online gaming intermediary offering such an
 online game; (xi) violates any law for the time being in force.
 Explanation.--In this clause, "user harm" and "harm"
mean any effect which is detrimental to a user or child, as the
case may be; (c) an intermediary shall periodically inform its users, at least
 once every year, that in case of non-compliance with
 rules and regulations, privacy policy or user agreement
 for access or usage of the computer resource of such
 intermediary, it has the right to terminate the access or
 usage rights of the users to the computer resource
 immediately or remove non-compliant information or
 both, as the case may be; (d) an intermediary, on whose computer resource the
 information is stored, hosted or published, upon
 receiving actual knowledge in the form of an order
 by a court of competent jurisdiction or on being
 notified by the Appropriate Government or its
 agency under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of Section 79 of the Act, shall not host, store or
 publish any unlawful information, which is
 prohibited under any law for the time being in force
 in relation to the interest of the sovereignty and
 integrity of India; security of the State; friendly
 relations with foreign States; public order; decency
 or morality; in relation to contempt of court;
 defamation; incitement to an offence relating to the
 above, or any information which is prohibited under
 any law for the time being in force: (a) appoint a Chief Compliance Officer who shall be
 responsible for ensuring compliance with the Act and
 rules made thereunder and shall be liable in any
 proceedings relating to any relevant third-party
 information, data or communication link made available
 or hosted by that intermediary where he fails to ensure
 that such intermediary observes due diligence while
 discharging its duties under the Act and rules made
 thereunder: Explanation.--In this clause, "nodal contact person" Explanation.--For the purposes of this clause, "Resident
Grievance Officer" means the employee of a significant social
media intermediary or an online gaming intermediary, as the
case may be, who is resident in India; (d) publish periodic compliance report every month
 mentioning the details of complaints received and action
 taken thereon, and, in respect of a significant social
 media intermediary, the number of specific
 communication links or parts of information that the
 intermediary has removed or disabled access to in
 pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by
 using automated tools or any other relevant information
 as may be specified; (2) A significant social media intermediary providing
services primarily in the nature of messaging shall enable the
identification of the first originator of the information on its
computer resource as may be required by a judicial order
passed by a court of competent jurisdiction or an order passed
under Section 69 by the Competent Authority as per the 223 Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for
interception, monitoring and decryption of information) Rules,
2009, which shall be supported with a copy of such information
in electronic form: rule (2) of Rule 3 and grievances in relation to the violation of
provisions under this rule, which shall enable the complainant to
track the status of such complaint or grievance by providing a
unique ticket number for every complaint or grievance received
by such intermediary: (Emphasis supplied)

The IT Rules, 2021 noted hereinabove, brings in a sea change in

the Rules that subsisted, now superseded i.e., IT Rules, 2011 in

comparison to the Rules subsisting. The entire fulcrum of the lis

revolves round the aforesaid Rules, as challenge is laid to the

Constitutional validity of certain provisions of the IT Rules, 2021. 15.5. To notice the marked difference between the two, it is

necessary to juxtapose the two. The two I mean, the Rule 3(4) of

the IT Rules, 2011 that fell for interpretation in SHREYA SINGHAL 227 and the present Rule 3(1)(d) of the IT Rules, 2021 promulgated

post SHREYA SINGHAL. It is as follows: ..... ..... ..... (4) The intermediary, on
 whose computer system the (d) an intermediary, on
 information is stored or hosted whose computer resource
 or published, upon obtaining the information is stored,
 knowledge by itself or been hosted or published, upon
 brought to actual knowledge by receiving actual knowledge
 an affected person in writing or in the form of an order by
 through e-mail signed with a court of competent
 electronic signature about any jurisdiction or on being
 such information as mentioned notified by the Appropriate
 in sub-rule (2) above, shall act Government or its agency
 within thirty-six hours and under clause (b) of sub-
 where applicable, work with user section (3) of Section 79 of
 or owner of such information to the Act, shall not host,
 disable such information that is store or publish any
 in contravention of sub-rule (2). unlawful information,
 Further the intermediary shall which is prohibited under
 preserve such information and any law for the time being
 associated records for at least in force in relation to the
 ninety days for investigation interest of the sovereignty
 purposes. and integrity of India; The afore-quoted Rules mandate due diligence by an intermediary. There are certain conditions imposed for compliance with the

direction to remove the objectionable content on the platform. The

reasons for directing such removal traces its origin to Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India. Therefore, I answer the issue

holding that the Rules that fell for consideration has

undergone a change, a complete change, in comparison to

the superseded Rules, which fell for consideration in SHREYA

SINGHAL. ISSUE NO.7: 16.1. Yet another factor that is to be looked into is judgment

in the case of SHREYA SINGHAL was interpreting the IT Rules,

2011. The IT Rules, 2011 are now superseded by IT Rules of 2021. Therefore, what fell for interpretation before the Apex Court in

SHREYA SINGHAL inter alia, the said Rules today stood

superseded. Therefore, the judgment or the effect of the judgment

insofar as it concerns intermediary it is restrictable up to the

amendment or the IT Rules, 2021. On and from 2021, the issue

would stand governed by the IT Rules, 2021. It is, therefore, the

petitioner has brought in a challenge to the Rules so made in the

year 2021. Now I deem it appropriate to notice the challenge. 16.2. The petitioner seeks a declaration that Rule 3(1)(d) of

the IT Rules, 2021 is ultra vires the IT Act or unconstitutional. In

the alternative, the petitioner seeks to read down Rule 3(1)(d) by

declaring that Rule 3(1)(d) would not independently authorize the

Authorities to issue information blocking orders. This is the first 231 limb of challenge. The second limb of challenge is, seeking a

declaration that Section 79(3)(b) of the IT Act does not confer

authority to issue information blocking order and further declaration

that information blocking order can be issued only under Section

69A of the IT Act. The declaration sought is that the Sahyog Portal

which the petitioner terms it to be a censorship portal, is ultra vires

the IT Act and unconstitutional. These are the main prayers sought

in the petition. I deem it appropriate to answer each of them. To

answer, it is necessary to re-quote only the relevant Rule/s of

challenge. Explanation.--In this clause, "user harm" and "harm"
mean any effect which is detrimental to a user or child, as
the case may be; (c) an intermediary shall periodically inform its
users, at least once every year, that in case of non-
compliance with rules and regulations, privacy policy or
user agreement for access or usage of the computer
resource of such intermediary, it has the right to
terminate the access or usage rights of the users to the
computer resource immediately or remove non-compliant
information or both, as the case may be; (d) an intermediary, on whose computer
resource the information is stored, hosted or
published, upon receiving actual knowledge in the
form of an order by a court of competent
jurisdiction or on being notified by the Appropriate
Government or its agency under clause (b) of sub-
section (3) of section 79 of the Act, shall not host,
store or publish any unlawful information, which is
prohibited under any law for the time being in force
in relation to the interest of the sovereignty and
integrity of India; security of the State; friendly
relations with foreign States; public order; decency
or morality; in relation to contempt of court;
defamation; incitement to an offence relating to the
above, or any information which is prohibited under
any law for the time being in force: (2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply if-- (a) the function of the intermediary is limited to
 providing access to a communication system
 over which information made available by
 third parties is transmitted or temporarily
 stored or hosted; or (b) the intermediary does not-- (c) the intermediary observes due diligence while
 discharging his duties under this Act and also
 observes such other guidelines as the Central
 Government may prescribe in this behalf. (3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply
if-- (a) the intermediary has conspired or abetted or
 aided or induced, whether by threats or
 promise or otherwise in the commission of
 the unlawful act; (b) upon receiving actual knowledge, or on being
 notified by the appropriate Government or its
 agency that any information, data or
 communication link residing in or connected
 to a computer resource controlled by the
 intermediary is being used to commit the
 unlawful act, the intermediary fails to
 expeditiously remove or disable access to that
 material on that resource without vitiating the
 evidence in any manner. Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, the
 expression "third party information" means any
 information dealt with by an intermediary in his capacity
 as an intermediary." (Emphasis supplied) Section 79 is a provision of safe harbour as intermediaries would

not become liable for any action in certain cases. Section 79(1) begins with a non-obstante clause that notwithstanding anything

contained in any law for the time being in force, but subject to the

provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3), an intermediary shall not be

liable for any third-party information, data or communication link

made available or hosted by him. Therefore, the intermediary can

claim that whatever is hosted by third-party on its platform cannot

be charged, upon the said intermediary. But, it is hedged by

conditions, as Section 79(1) would indicate subject to the provisions

of sub-sections (2) and (3). Sub-section (2) would apply on certain

circumstances which need not be elaborated for the issue in the lis. Sub-section (3) is what forms the complete fulcrum. An

intermediary upon receiving knowledge or being notified by the

appropriate Government or its agency that any information, data or

communication link residing in or connected to a computer resource 238 controlled by the intermediary fails to remove or disable access to

that material on that resource will lose safe harbour i.e., protection

under Section 79(1) . 16.6. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner and the

impleading applicants have contended that the provision, is a catch

22 situation where they will have to obey the orders or lose the safe

harbour. Therefore, the exemption is illusory. The challenge is in

connection with the two provisions. The projection in support of the

challenge is that IT Rules, 2021 are vague, unbridled, uncanalized

and are susceptible to arbitrary exercise of power. On all these

grounds the challenge is brought in. The Rules are completely

different. Rule 3(4) of the IT Rules, 2011 which fell for

consideration before Apex Court in the case of SHREYA SINGHAL

is entirely different, in juxtaposition to the IT Rules, 2021. The

submission that they are similar and the Apex Court has interpreted

Rule 3(4) of the IT Rules, 2011 and, therefore, the interpretation

should be paraphrased to IT Rules, 2021 is noted only to be

rejected, on a twin score that, the Rules compared hereinabove are 239 completely distinct to each other, not similar. The IT Rules, 2011

have no existence today, as they are superseded. 16.7. The Apex Court in SHREYA SINGHAL has not

interpreted the IT Rules, 2021 which ostensibly could not, as the

Rules have come in 2021 whereas, SHREYA SINGHAL is rendered

in 2015. The challenge now is that it is ultra vires the Act, and

unconstitutional. The challenge to Rule 3(1)(d) of the IT Rules,

2021 is on the score that it is vague, gives unbridled power and

does not have safeguards. Elaborating the said submission, the

contention is, that the Rule that is under challenge i.e., Rule

3(1)(d) of the IT Rules, 2021 suffers from vagueness and such

vagueness should lead to holding the said Rule unconstitutional. Therefore, I deem it appropriate to consider the ground projected

to buttress the submission of unconstitutionality of the Rule - vagueness. ON VAGUENESS: Section 79 is the safe harbour provision hedged with conditions. Section 79 is not a free for all safe harbour. Any unlawful content

on the platform if directed to be taken down and if not taken down,

the safe harbour would be lost and Rule 3(1)(d) springs. The word

used is 'unlawful' in Section 79 and Rule 3(1)(d) and it is qualified

by the words 'under any law for the time being in force'. If the two

are read in tandem, what would unmistakably emerge is that, non- compliance of Section 79(3) of the IT Act would lead to losing of

safe harbour, and Rule 3(1)(d) kicks in to ensure that

intermediaries comply with their obligations under Section 79 . The

soul of Section 79 is that, unlawful content or content declared as

unlawful under any law for the time being in force or the laws in

force, refers to already determined and clearly defined laws, as laws

in force and under any law for the time being in force has profound

meaning, being the existence and subsistence of the laws. Therefore, it is ununderstandable as to how it can be construed to

be vague. 16.9. It becomes apposite to refer to the judgment of the

Apex Court in the case of A.K.ROY v. UNION OF INDIA29 has held

as follows: ".... .... .... 61. In making these submissions counsel seem to us to
 have overstated their case by adopting an unrealistic attitude. It
 is true that the vagueness and the consequent uncertainty of a
 law of preventive detention bears upon the unreasonableness of
 that law as much as the uncertainty of a punitive law like the
 Penal Code does. A person cannot be deprived of his liberty by a
 law which is nebulous and uncertain in its definition and
 application. But in considering the question whether the
 expressions aforesaid which are used in Section 3 of the Act are
 of that character, we must have regard to the consideration
 whether the concepts embodied in those expressions are at all
 capable of a precise definition. The fact that some definition or
 the other can be formulated of an expression does not mean
 that the definition can necessarily give certainty to that
 expression. The British Parliament has defined the term
 'terrorism' in Section 28 of the Act of 1973 to mean "the use of
 violence for political ends", which, by definition, includes "any
 use of violence for the purpose of putting the public or any
 section of the public in fear". The phrase 'political ends' is itself
 of an uncertain character and comprehends within its scope a
 variety of nebulous situations. Similarly, the definitions
 contained in Section 8(3) of the Jammu & Kashmir Act of 1978
 themselves depend upon the meaning of concepts like "overawe
 the government". The formulation of definitions cannot be
 a panacea to the evil of vagueness and uncertainty. We
 do not, of course, suggest that the legislature should not
 attempt to define or at least to indicate the contours of
 expressions, by the use of which people are sought to be
 deprived of their liberty. The impossibility of framing a
 definition with mathematical precision cannot either
 justify the use of vague expressions or the total failure to
 frame any definition at all which can furnish, by its 29 (1982) 1 SCC 271 242 inclusiveness at least, a safe guideline for understanding
the meaning of the expressions used by the legislature.
But the point to note is that there are expressions which
inherently comprehend such an infinite variety of
situations that definitions, instead of lending to them a
definite meaning, can only succeed either in robbing
them of their intended amplitude or in making it
necessary to frame further definitions of the terms
defined. Acts prejudicial to the 'defence of India',
'security of India', 'security of the State', and 'relations of
India with foreign powers' are concepts of that nature
which are difficult to encase within the strait-jacket of a
definition. If it is permissible to the legislature to enact laws of
preventive detention, a certain amount of minimal latitude has
to be conceded to it in order to make those laws effective. That
we consider to be a realistic approach to the situation. An
administrator acting bona fide, or a court faced with the
question as to whether certain acts fall within the mischief of the
aforesaid expressions used in Section 3 , will be able to find an
acceptable answer either way. In other words, though an
expression may appear in cold print to be vague and uncertain,
it may not be difficult to apply it to life's practical realities. This
process undoubtedly involves the possibility of error but then,
there is hardly any area of adjudicative process which does not
involve that possibility. 62. The requirement that crimes must be defined
with appropriate definiteness is regarded as a
fundamental concept in criminal law and must now be
regarded as a pervading theme of our Constitution since
the decision in Maneka Gandhi [Maneka Gandhi v. Union
of India , (1978) 1 SCC 248 : (1978) 2 SCR 621 : AIR 1978
SC 597] . The underlying principle is that every person is
entitled to be informed as to what the State commands or
forbids and that the life and liberty of a person cannot be
put in peril on an ambiguity. However, even in the
domain of criminal law, the processes of which can result
in the taking away of life itself, no more than a
reasonable degree of certainty has to be accepted as a
fact. Neither the criminal law nor the Constitution
requires the application of impossible standards and
therefore, what is expected is that the language of the
law must contain an adequate warning of the conduct 243 which may fall within the proscribed area, when
 measured by common understanding. In criminal law, the
 legislature frequently uses vague expressions like 'bring
 into hatred or contempt', or 'maintenance of harmony
 between different religious groups', or 'likely to cause
 disharmony or ... hatred or ill will', or 'annoyance to the
 public' [see Sections 124-A, 153-A(1)(b) , 153-B(1)(c) ,
 and 268 of the Penal Code]. These expressions, though
 they are difficult to define, do not elude a just application
 to practical situations. The use of language carries with it
 the inconvenience of the imperfections of language. 63. We see that the concepts aforesaid, namely, 'defence
 of India', 'security of India', 'security of the State' and 'relations
 of India with foreign powers', which are mentioned in Section 3 of the Act, are not of any great certainty or definiteness. But in
 the very nature of things they are difficult to define. We cannot
 therefore strike down these provisions of Section 3 of the Act on
 the ground of their vagueness and uncertainty. We must,
 however, utter a word of caution that since the concepts are not
 defined, undoubtedly because they are not capable of a precise
 definition, courts must strive to give to those concepts a
 narrower construction than what the literal words suggest. While
 construing laws of preventive detention like the National
 Security Act , care must be taken to restrict their application to
 as few situations as possible. Indeed, that can well be the
 unstated premise for upholding the constitutionality of clauses
 like those in Section 3 , which are fraught with grave
 consequences to personal liberty, if construed liberally." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court holds that impossibility of framing a definition with

mathematical precision cannot either justify the use of vague

expressions or the total failure to frame any definition. It further

holds that it cannot become a ground to challenge the validity of an

Act. 16.10. In the case of BENILAL v. STATE OF

MAHARASHTRA30, the Apex Court holds as follows: ".... .... .... 4. Shri G.L. Sanghi, learned Senior Counsel contends that
 a reading of these clauses do indicate that the Controller is a
 subordinate executive authority, who has been invested with
 judicial power to give permission to determine tenancy for
 ejectment on the ground of habitually in arrears. The words
 'habitually in arrears' should have been defined but it
 was not done. Its construction is varied on subjective
 decision of the court and can vary from court to court.
 Therefore, the word "habitually in arrears" being vague
 and indefinite, and exercise of the power having been
 entrusted to an officer not judicially trained to construe
 the provision of the Act, it would lead to unbridled
 exercise of power without guidelines, offending Article 14 of the Constitution. We find no force in the contention. It
 is well settled that the legislative scheme may employ
 words of generality conveying its policy and intention to
 achieve the object set out therein. Every word need not
 be defined. It may be a matter of judicial construction of
 such words or phrases. Mere fact that a particular word
 or phrase has not been defined is not a ground to declare
 the provisions of the Act itself or the order as
 unconstitutional. The word 'habitual' cannot be put in a
 straitjacket formula. It is a matter of judicial construction
 and always depends upon the given facts and
 circumstances in each case. As to when an inference that a
 tenant is habitually in arrears disentitling him to the protection
 of the Order could be drawn is a question of fact in each case.
 But on that ground or circumstance itself, the provision of the
 Act cannot be declared to be ultra vires. Further contention that
 sub-clause (i) of clause 13(3) gives a discretion to the Rent
 Controller, to permit the defaulting tenant to deposit the arrears
 for a period of three months within a specified time, while clause
 13(3)(ii) gives no discretion and that would render the latter
 clause arbitrary, is also without force. It is true that a right is 30 1995 Supp (1) SCC 235 245 given to the landlord to make an application under clause
 13(3)(i) for permission to determine the tenancy when the
 tenant was in arrears for a period of three months in which
 event the discretion has been given to the Rent Controller to fix
 a time and direct the tenant to deposit the arrears and on its
 non-compliance the application stands rejected. The Rent
 Controller is empowered only if the default is for a period of
 three months and not after its expiry. But in the case covered
 under clause 13(3)(ii) if the Controller finds that the tenant is
 habitual defaulter in payment of the rent and kept the arrears
 exceeding three months without compliance thereof, on given
 facts and circumstances, the Controller may give permission for
 terminating the tenancy. If the finding is in the negative the
 petition entails dismissal. It is not a case of subjective
 satisfaction as sought to be contended for but an objective
 consideration of the proved facts and circumstances by the
 parties. The Controller needs to decide whether the tenant
 factually is a habitual defaulter in payment of the rent and on
 his recording a finding that the tenant habitually commits
 default in the payment of the rent, then permission would be
 granted to determine the tenancy. Thereafter, regular
 proceedings would be taken in a suit for eviction of the tenant in
 the civil court. Thus considered, we find that the words
 'habitually in arrears' are not vague or indefinite. On the other
 hand, clause 13(3)(i) appears to give the guidance or indicia in
 that behalf to clause 13(3)(ii) of the Order." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court holds that it is well settled that the legislative

scheme may employ words of generality conveying its policy and

intention to achieve the objects set out therein. Every word need

not be defined. It may be a matter of judicial construction of such

words or phrases. This would not make the provision vague and

vagueness to become a reason to hold it unconstitutional. Public 246 order, as found in Rule 3(1)(d) would encompass, all laws

determined unlawful, as public order has not sprung from air,

but from Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India, and

Constitution of India, is not a statute. It is the fountainhead

of all statutes. The words 'any information which is prohibited

under any law for the time being in force' and used in Rule 3(1)(d)

clearly depicts publication of any information despite a specific

prohibition against such publication in any law. Therefore, it is

ununderstandable as to how Rule 3(1)(d) fails to comply with the

tenets of Article 14 , to hold it to be arbitrary and obliterate it to be

ultra vires the Act or unconstitutional. It is neither nebulous nor

arbitrary. 16.11. The other submission in support of the challenge is to

read down Rule 3(1)(d). Reading down of a provision would arise

on certain parameters as held by the Apex Court in the case of ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM31 . The Apex Court, in the

said case, holds as follows: At the cost of repetition, it is observed that reading
 down a particular statute even to save it from
 unconstitutionality is not permissible unless and until the
 constitutional validity of such provision is under
 challenge and the opportunity is given to the Union of
 India to defend a particular parliamentary statute." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court observes that reading down of a provision of a

statute cannot be resorted to, when the meaning of the provision is

plain and unambiguous and intention of the legislature is not

nebulous. On the aforesaid principle, if the contention of the

petitioner is noticed, there cannot be reading down for the asking,

as the provision is plain and unambiguous. To iterate, blocking

orders can be issued under Section 69A of the IT Act read with the 248 Blocking Rules, 2009. Rule 3(1)(d) provides information blocking

within the scope of Section 79 . Section 69A and Section 79 operate

at two different and distinct circumstances. Section 79 is to be

read with Rule 3(1)(d) and Section 69A separately, for the reason

that Section 69A employs elaborate procedure for taking down or

blocking. With the rigmarole of procedure being followed, the

damage that an information should cause, would have caused by

the elaborate procedure that is contemplated under Section 69A or

the Blocking Rules of 2009. 16.12. What Section 79 of the IT Act and Rule 3(1)(d) of the

IT Rules, 2021 mandates is only due diligence with conditions. It

startles this Court that the petitioner does not want to undertake

due diligence. The cascading effect of information hosted on the

platform does not happen by itself. Submissions are made, as if

the platform has nothing to do with the information. The platform

has everything to do with the information. Tons and tons of

information is on the platform and just one particular information

springs up to become popular or unpopular is by the algorithms

that the platform deploys. Algorithms are not in air; they are 249 controlled by the intermediary. Therefore, the element of control is

always available with the platform. The platform cannot say that it

will take its hands off, once the information is loaded on the

platform. Therefore, there is nothing in the provision that can be

said to be vague or unbridled, to be held it to be arbitrary, as there

is nothing to be read down, where a nation is governed by rule of

law. Rule of law should govern the nation of any activity of any

person, as the person, company or personality cannot be above the

rule of law. Wherefore, I hold that the provision is neither

ultra vires nor arbitrary and challenge to both stand

repelled. The issue is answered accordingly. ISSUE NO.8: 17.1. The petitioner's submissions qua the challenge as

quoted hereinabove is, drawing its strength from Article 19 of the 250 Constitution of India, inter alia. Therefore, it is necessary, to notice

whether the fundamental rights as obtaining under Article 19 of the

Constitution of India is available to an outsider, a person or a

Company born beyond the shores of this nation. It is an admitted

fact, that the petitioner/Company housed in United States of

America is now wanting to invoke the jurisdiction of this Court

under Article 226 of the Constitution of India claiming that it has a

fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a) of free speech and

expression. It therefore becomes necessary to notice Article 19. It

reads as follows: [and] (f) [* * *] (g) to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation,
 trade or business. [(2) Nothing in sub-clause (a) of clause (1) shall
affect the operation of any existing law, or prevent the
State from making any law, in so far as such law imposes
reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right
conferred by the said sub-clause in the interests of [the
sovereignty and integrity of India,] the security of the
State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order,
decency or morality, or in relation to contempt of court,
defamation or incitement to an offence.]

 (3) Nothing in sub-clause (b) of the said clause shall
affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes,
or prevent the State from making any law imposing, in the
interests of 24[the sovereignty and integrity of India or] public
order, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right
conferred by the said sub-clause. (4) Nothing in sub-clause (c) of the said clause shall
affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes,
or prevent the State from making any law imposing, in the
interests of [the sovereignty and integrity of India or] public
order or morality, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the
right conferred by the said sub-clause. (5) Nothing in [sub-clauses (d) and (e)] of the said clause
shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it
imposes, or prevent the State from making any law imposing,
reasonable restrictions on the exercise of any of the rights
conferred by the said sub-clauses either in the interests of the
general public or for the protection of the interests of any
Scheduled Tribe. (6) Nothing in sub-clause (g) of the said clause shall
affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes,
or prevent the State from making any law imposing, in the
interests of the general public, reasonable restrictions on the
exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause, and, in
particular, [nothing in the said sub-clause shall affect the
operation of any existing law in so far as it relates to, or prevent
the State from making any law relating to,-- (i) the professional or technical qualifications necessary for
 practising any profession or carrying on any occupation,
 trade or business, or (ii) the carrying on by the State, or by a corporation owned
 or controlled by the State, of any trade, business,
 industry or service, whether to the exclusion, complete or
 partial, of citizens or otherwise]." (Emphasis supplied)

A bare perusal of Article 19 is clearly indicative of the fact that

those are the rights available to the citizens or rights guaranteed to

the citizens of the country. Therefore, it is citizen centric and by no

stretch of imagination, person centric. 17.2. The petitioner is not a Company incorporated under any

of the laws of the nation nor has a face in the nation. It is a faceless

Company, with not even a legally established office anywhere, in

the nation. Article 19 of the Constitution undoubtedly gives its

protective umbrella only to citizens. Fundamental rights obtaining

under Article 19 are citizen centric and not person centric. The

petitioner is not even a person, it is a Company. The petitioner

being a Company, on the face of it, cannot contend that there is 253 violation of fundamental rights. It becomes apposite to refer to the

judgment of the Apex Court and the High Court of Allahabad. 17.3. The Apex Court in the case of INDO-CHINA STEAM

NAVIGATION COMPANY LIMITED v. ADDITIONAL

COLLECTION OF CUSTOMS, CALCUTTA32, has held as follows: ".... .... ..... There is one more point which must be mentioned before
 we part with this appeal. Mr Choudhary attempted to argue that
 if mens rea was not regarded as an essential element of Section
 52-A, the said section would be ultra vires Articles 14 , 19 and 31(1) and as such, unconstitutional and invalid. We do not
 propose to consider the merits of this argument, because the
 appellant is not only a company, but also a foreign company,
 and as such, is not entitled to claim the benefits of Article 19. It
 is only citizens of India who have been guaranteed the right to
 freedom enshrined in the said article. If that is so, the plea
 under Article 31(1) as well as under Article 14 cannot be
 sustained for the simple reason that in supporting the said two
 pleas, inevitably the appellant has for fall back upon the
 fundamental right guranteed by Article 19(1)(f). The whole
 argument is that the appellant is deprived of its property by
 operation of the relevant provisions of the Act and these
 provisions are invalid. All that Article 31(1) provides is that no
 person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of
 law. As soon as this plea is raised, it is met by the obvious
 answer that the appellant has been deprived of its property by
 authority of the provisions of the Act and that would be the end
 of the plea under Article 31(1) unless the appellant is able to
 take the further step of challenging the validity of the act, and
 that necessarily imports Article 19(1)(f). Similarly, when a plea
 is raised under Article 14 , we face the same position. It may be
 that if Section 52-A contravenes Article 19(1)(f) , a citizen of 32 1964 SCC OnLine SC 42 254 India may contend that his vessel cannot be confiscated even if
 it has contravened Section 52-A, and in that sense, there would
 be inequality between the citizen and the foreigner, but that
 inequality is the necessary consequence of the basic fact that Article 19 is confined to citizens of India, and so, the plea that Article 14 is contravened also must take in Article 19 if it has to
 succeed. The plain truth is that certain rights guaranteed
 to the citizens of India under Article 19 are not available
 to foreigners and pleas which may successfully be raised
 by the citizens on the strength of the said rights
 guaranteed under Article 19 would, therefore, not be
 available to foreigners. That being so, we see no substance in
 the argument that if Section 52-A is construed against the
 appellant, it would be invalid, and so, the appellant would be
 able to resist the confiscation of its vessel under Article 31(1). We ought to make it clear that we are expressing no opinion on
 the validity of Section 52-A under Article 19(1)(f). If the said
 question were to arise for our decision in any case, we would
 have to consider whether the provisions of Section 52-A are not
 justified by Article 19(5). That is a matter which is foreign to the
 enquiry in the present appeal." (Emphasis supplied)

 17.4. A Division Bench of Allahabad High Court in a Judgment

reported in the case of POWER MEASUREMENT LIMITED v. UTTAR PRADESH POWER CORPORATION LIMITED33 has held

as follows: ".... .... .... 14. As such Art. 19(1)(d) and (e) are unavailable to
 foreigners because those rights are conferred only on the
 citizens. Certainly, the machinery of Art. 14 cannot be
 invoked to obtain that fundamental right. Rights under
 Arts. 19(1)(d) and (e) are expressly, withheld to
 foreigners. 2003 SCC OnLine All 109 255 15. After giving anxious consideration to the facts
 of the case and the submissions made by the learned
 counsel for the parties, we are of the opinion that the
 foreigners also enjoy some fundamental right under the
 Constitution of this country but the same is confined to Art. 21 of the Constitution i.e. life and liberty and does
 not include the rights guaranteed under Art. 19 of the
 Constitution, which are available only to the citizens of
 this country. Fundamental rights, which are available to
 the citizens of this country, cannot be extended to non-
 citizen through Art. 14 of the Constitution. 16. In the present case, learned counsel for the petitioner
 claims violation of Art. 14 in the matter of awarding bid by the
 respondent-Corporation. In our view, violation of Art. 14 is to be
 examined under the back-drop of the facts that the petitioner
 has applied for tender in respect of supply, installation, testing
 and commissioning of O. 2S Accuracy Class Static Electronic
 Trivector Energy Meters but the Power Corporation after making
 enquiry and the preference of the domestic company over the
 foreign company, took a decision to grant tender to respondent
 No. 5. In these circumstances, the petitioner cannot claim
 violation of Art. 14 independently but the same is to be
 read with Art. 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, which is
 confined to the citizens of the country alone." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court in the case of INDO-CHINA STEAM NAVIGATION

CO.LTD., supra while considering the submission with regard

challenge to Section 52-A of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 for it to be

violative of Articles 14 , 19 and 31 of the Constitution has held that,

it could not be challenged by an outsider. The challenge therein was

with regard to Article 19(1)(f) coupled with Articles 14 and 31. The

Court answers that in the grab of invoking Articles 14 and 31 , what 256 is challenged is the purport of the Act qua Article 19. Therefore, the

Court holds that Article 19 would not be available to any person

who is not a citizen of this country. Same goes with the Division

Bench judgment of Allahabad High Court, where at para-14 it is

clearly held that Article 19(1)(d) and (e) are unavailable to

foreigners, because these rights are conferred only on the citizens. Rights under Article 19 are withheld expressly to foreigners. The

Division Bench also holds that, it is of the opinion that foreigners

enjoy some fundamental rights of this country, but the same are

confined to Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which deals with

life and liberty and does not include the rights guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution. 17.5. On a coalesce of the judgments rendered by the Apex

Court and that of Allahabad High Court, what would unmistakably

emerge is, that Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution would be

available to every person and they are not restricted to the citizens

of the country only. However, Article 19 is restricted only to citizens

of this country and in the garb of projecting Articles 14 and 21 , a

foreigner cannot seek rights under Article 19. What the petitioner 257 projects is, that he has a right to challenge all that he has brought

before this Court, under the umbrella of Article 14 of the

Constitution of India. The challenge is repelled while answering

issue No.7. Even otherwise, a foreign company, standing under

the umbrella of Article 14 , cannot raise a challenge which in effect

would lead to interpretation of Article 19 , or drawing support even

from Article 19 of the Constitution. This is exactly what the

petitioner is wanting to seek, project Article 14 , take the rights that

is unavailable only to citizens under Article 19(1)(a) ,

notwithstanding the rigour of 19(2). 17.6. Ventilating statutory rights or grievances concerning the

statute, seeking to challenge the statutes of the nation, on the

foundation of Article 19 , cannot be countenanced. A Company

which is faceless in India, cannot on the basis of baseless

allegations, come forward and challenge the laws of the nation. It

is reciprocal, as it is unimaginable, that an entity which has no

foothold in the United States, can challenge the laws of the United

States in the Courts of the United States, except in certain

circumstances. In the same manner, X Corp being faceless in the 258 nation, operating as an intermediary, cannot challenge any of the

statutes of the nation under the umbrage of Article 19. Its

presence is not there. It cannot raise a challenge to the statutes

regulating social media. If it wants to operate in the nation, it has

to abide by the laws, as simple as that. 17.7. Identical attempt was made before this Court in the

case of X CORP v. UNION OF INDIA34 , which comes to be

dismissed with imposition of costs of ₹50/- lakhs holding that Articles 19 and 21 are not available to X Corp. A coordinate Bench

has held as follows: ".... .... .... Petition has been structured inter alia on the provisions of Article 14 of the Constitution, as extensively construed by the
 Apex Court, precedent by precedent. Paragraph 11, page
 10 of petitioner's Rejoinder reads: "Petitioner is
 canvassing rights under Articles 14 , 19 , 21 only to limited
 extent. Petitioner is mainly urging violation of statutory
 rights". Even otherwise, it cannot claim protection of Article 19(1)(a) because it is not a citizen [Bishwananth
 Tea Company Ltd.(AIR 1981 SC 1368)], and Article 21 because it is not a natural person; it also cannot espouse
 the arguable cause of twitter account holders in the
 absence of enabling provision of law unlike trade unions
 espousing the cause of workmen under the provisions of 34 Writ Petition No.13710 of 2022 decided on 30-06-2023 259 The Trade Unions Act, 1926 & The Industrial Disputes
Act, 1947 . .... .... .... The Petitioner-Company is not only threatened of losing its
protection available u/s 79(1) but also penal action for violation
of the mandatory provisions of the Act and the Website Blocking
Rules. In view of the above discussion, this court is of the
 considered view that petitioner has locus standi to tap the
 writ jurisdiction of this Court for the redressal of its
 arguable grievance. .... .... .... (c) The non-compliance with section 69A orders has
the potential to make the tweet more viral and spread to
other platforms as well. One can imagine the damage
potential when such objectionable tweets are allowed to
be disseminated despite interdiction. The damage
potential is directly proportional to the delay brooked in
the compliance of such orders. Petitioner has
demonstrably adopted a tactical approach to delay
compliance and that shows its intent to remain non-
compliant to Indian law. No plausible explanation is
offered for the delay in approaching the Constitutional
Court, either. Petitioner has abruptly complied with section 69A orders, a bit before coming to court, though
the 2nd respondent had issued compliance requirement
notice way back on 2 February 2021 threatening: "It
needs to be mentioned that Section 69A(3) provides for
specific penal consequences in case of non-compliance of
the directions issued under section 69A of the Act." The
penalty prescribed u/s 69A(3) for the offence of non-
compliance of the order is imprisonment for a term which
may extend to seven years and/or fine. Even that did not
deter the recalcitrant petitioner. The Central Government,
in its discretion, did not choose to prosecute the
petitioner for the offence in question. It hardly needs to
be reiterated that the Constitutional Courts do not come
to the aid of litigants whose hands are soiled or who are
indolent. .... .... .... In the above circumstances, this Petition being
 devoid of merits, is liable to be dismissed with
 exemplary costs, and accordingly, it is. Petitioner is
 levied with an exemplary cost of Rs.50,00,000/-
 (Rupees Fifty Lakh) only, payable to the Karnataka
 State Legal Services Authority, Bengaluru, within 45
 days, and delay if brooked attracts an additional levy of
 Rs.5,000/- (Rupees Fife Thousand) only, per day." (Emphasis supplied)

It is not that the coordinate Bench was, for the first time, holding

that a Company is not a juristic person, which can agitate violation

of fundamental rights. 17.8. Right from 1950, the Apex Court in the case of CHARANJIT LAL CHOWDHURY v. UNION OF INDIA35 , has held

as follows: ".... .... .... 12. Thus anybody who complains of infraction of any of
 the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution is at
 liberty to move the Supreme Court for the enforcement of such
 rights and this Court has been given the power to make orders
 and issue directions or writs similar in nature to the prerogative
 writs of English law as might be considered appropriate in
 particular cases. The fundamental rights guaranteed by the
 Constitution are available not merely to individual
 citizens but to corporate bodies as well except where the
 language of the provision or the nature of the right 35 1950 SCC 833/1950 SCC OnLine SC 49 261 compels the inference that they are applicable only to
natural persons. An incorporated company, therefore, can
come up to this Court for enforcement of its fundamental
rights and so may the individual shareholders to enforce
their own; but it would not be open to an individual
shareholder to complain of an Act which affects the
fundamental rights of the Company except to the extent
that it constitutes an infraction of his own rights as well.
This follows logically from the rule of law that a corporation has
a distinct legal personality of its own with rights and capacities,
duties and obligations separate from those of its individual
members. As the rights are different and inhere in different legal
entities, it is not competent to one person to seek to enforce the
rights of another except where the law permits him to do so. A
well-known illustration of such exception is furnished by the
procedure that is sanctioned in an application for a writ of
habeas corpus. Not only the man who is imprisoned or detained
in confinement but any person, provided he is not an absolute
stranger, can institute proceedings to obtain a writ of habeas
corpus for the purpose of liberating another from an illegal
imprisonment. 13. The application before us under Article 32 of the
Constitution is on behalf of an individual shareholder of the
Company. Article 32 , as its provisions show, is not directly
concerned with the determination of constitutional validity of
particular legislative enactments. What it aims at is the
enforcing of fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution,
no matter whether the necessity for such enforcement arises
out of an action of the executive or of the legislature. To make
out a case under this article, it is incumbent upon the petitioner
to establish not merely that the law complained of is beyond the
competence of the particular legislature as not being covered by
any of the items in the legislative lists, but that it affects or
invades his fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution
of which he could seek enforcement by an appropriate writ or
order. The rights that could be enforced under Article 32 must
ordinarily be the rights of the petitioner himself who complains
of infraction of such rights and approaches the Court for relief.
This being the position, the proper subject of our investigation
would be what rights, if any, of the petitioner as a shareholder
of the Company have been violated by the impugned legislation. A discussion of the fundamental rights of the Company as such
would be outside the purview of our enquiry. 14. It is settled law that in order to redress a wrong done
to the Company, the action should prima facie be brought by
the Company itself. It cannot be said that this course is not
possible in the circumstances of the present case. As the law is
alleged to be unconstitutional, it is open to the old Directors of
the company who have been ousted from their position by
reason of the enactment to maintain that they are Directors still
in the eye of the law, and on that footing the majority of
shareholders can also assert the rights of the Company as such.
None of them, however, have come forward to institute any
proceeding on behalf of the Company. Neither in form nor in
substance does the present application purport to be one made
by the Company itself. Indeed, the Company is one of the
respondents, and opposes the petition. 15. As regards the other point, it would appear from the
language of Article 32 of the Constitution that the sole object of
the article is the enforcement of fundamental rights guaranteed
by the Constitution. A proceeding under this article cannot really
have any affinity to what is known as a declaratory suit. The
first prayer made in the petition seeks relief in the shape of a
declaration that the Act is invalid and is apparently
inappropriate to an application under Article 32; while the
second purports to be framed for a relief by way of injunction
consequent upon the first. As regards the third prayer, it has
been contended by Mr Joshi, who appears for one of the
respondents, that having regard to the nature of the case and
the allegations made by the petitioner himself, the prayer for a
writ of mandamus, in the form in which it has been made, is not
tenable. What is argued is that a writ of mandamus can be
prayed for, for enforcement of statutory duties or to compel a
person holding a public office to do or forbear from doing
something which is incumbent upon him to do or forbear from
doing under the provisions of any law. Assuming that the
respondents in the present case are public servants, it is said
that the statutory duties which it is incumbent upon them to
discharge are precisely the duties which are laid down in the
impugned Act itself. There is no legal obligation on their part to
abstain from exercising the powers conferred upon them by the 263 impeached enactment which the Court can be called upon to
 enforce. There is really not much substance in this argument,
 for according to the petitioner the impugned Act is not valid at
 all and consequently the respondents cannot take their stand on
 this very Act to defeat the application for a writ in the nature of
 a mandamus. Any way, Article 32 of the Constitution gives us
 very wide discretion in the matter of framing our writs to suit
 the exigencies of particular cases, and the application of the
 petitioner cannot be thrown out simply on the ground that the
 proper writ or direction has not been prayed for." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court holds that the shareholders of a Company cannot

claim infringement of fundamental rights on behalf of a Company,

unless their personal rights are affected. 17.9. The Apex Court, in the case of TATA ENGINEERING

AND LOCOMOTIVE COMPANY LIMITED v. STATE OF BIHAR36 ,

holds as follows: ".... .... .... Mr. Palkhivala sought to draw a distinction between the right of
 a citizen to carry on trade or business which is contemplated by
 article 19*(g) from his right to form associations or unions
 contemplated by article 19*(c). He argued that article 19*(c)
 enables the citizens to choose their instruments or agents for
 carrying on the business which it is their fundamental right to
 carry on. If citizens decide to set up a corporation or a company
 as their agent for the purpose of carrying on trade or business,
 that is a right which is guaranteed to them under article 19
 (1)(c). Basing himself on this distinction between the two rights
 guaranteed by article 19(1)(g) and (c) respectively, Mr. 36 1964 SCC OnLine SC 111 264 Palkhivala somewhat ingeniously contended that we should not
hesitate to lift the veil, because by looking at the substance of
the matter, we would really be giving effect to the two
fundamental rights guaranteed by article 10 (1). We are not
impressed by this argument either. The fundamental right to
form an association cannot in this manner be coupled with the
fundamental right to carry on any trade or business. As has
been held by this court in All India Bank Employees' Association
v. National Industrial Tribunal* , the argument which is thus
attractively presented before us overlooks the fact that article
19 , as contrasted with certain other articles like articles 26 , 29 and 30 guarantees rights to the citizens as such, and
associations cannot lay claim to the fund fundamental! rights
guaranteed by that article solely on the basis of their being an
aggregation of citizens, that is to say, the right of the citizens
composing the body. The respective rights guaranteed by article
19(1) cannot he combined as suggested by Mr. Palkhivala, but
must be asserted each in its own way and within its own limits;
the sweep of the several rights is no doubt wide, but the
combination of any of those two rights would not justify a claim
such as is made by Mr. Palkhivala in the present petitions. As
soon as citizens form a company, the right guaranteed to
them by article 19(1)(c) has been exercised and no
restraint has been placed on that right and no
infringement of that right is made. Once a company or a
corporation is formed, the business which is carried on by
the said company or corporation is the business of the
company or corporation and is not the business of the
citizens who get the company or corporation formed or
incorporated, and the rights of the incorporated body
must be judged on that footing and cannot be judged on
the assumption that they are the rights attributable to
the business of individual citizens. Therefore, we are
satisfied that the argument based on the distinction between the
two rights guaranteed by article 19(1)(c) and (g) and the effect
of their combination cannot take the petitioners' case very far
when they seek to invoke the doctrine that the veil of the
corporation should be lifted. That is why we have come to the
conclusion that the petitions filed by the petitioners are
incompetent under article 32 , even though in each of these 265 petitions one or two of the shareholders of the petitioning
 companies or corporation have joined." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court holds that once individuals form a Company, the

rights of that Company cannot be equated with individual share

holder's rights. 17.10. The Apex Court in the case of INDIAN SOCIAL

ACTION FORUM v. UNION OF INDIA37 , holds as follows: ".... .... .... 18. We find force in the objection taken on behalf of
 the Union of India that the appellant organisation is not
 entitled to invoke Article 19. No member of the appellant
 organisation is arrayed as a party. Article 19 guarantees
 certain rights to "all citizens". The appellant, being an
 organisation, cannot be a citizen for the purpose of Article 19 of the Constitution. (See State Trading Corpn.
 of India Ltd. v. CTO [State Trading Corpn. of India Ltd. v.
 CTO, (1964) 4 SCR 99 : AIR 1963 SC 1811] ; Bennett
 Coleman & Co. v. Union of India [Bennett Coleman & Co.
 v. Union of India, (1972) 2 SCC 788] ; TELCO Ltd. v. State
 of Bihar [TELCO Ltd. v. State of Bihar, (1964) 6 SCR 885 : (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court holds that Article 19 can be invoked only by citizens

excluding organizations, unless individual members are parties. 17.11. A little earlier, the High Court of Delhi in the case of STAR INDIA (P) LIMITED v. TELECOM REGULATORY

AUTHORITY OF INDIA38 , has held as follows: ".... .... .... 6. On the other hand, the learned Counsel for the
 respondents have taken us through a catena of cases containing
 reflections on the legal position of whether a company can file a
 petition seeking enforcement of Fundamental Rights. In The
 State Trading Corporation of India v. The Commercial Tax
 Officer, Visakhapatnam , AIR 1963 SC 1811 : 1964 (4) SCR 99 (STC case in short), the nine-Judge Bench of the
 Supreme Court clarified that the Constitution deliberately
 and advisedly makes a clear distinction between
 Fundamental Rights available to 'any person' and those
 guaranteed to 'all citizens'. Article 19 inter alia
 guarantees citizens of India (a) the freedom of speech
 and expression and (g) the right to carry on any
 occupation, trade or business. Their Lordships thereafter
 observed that the provisions of the Constitution of India
 in Part II relating to 'citizenship' are clearly inapplicable
 to juristic persons; and that neither the provisions of
 Constitution Part II nor of the Citizenship Act confer the
 right of citizenship on recognized citizens, any person 38 2007 SCC OnLine Del 951 267 other than a natural person; that they do not contemplate
a corporation as a citizen. Their Lordships poignantly
opined that Part-III of the Constitution, which proclaims
Fundamental Rights, was very accurately drafted,
delimiting rights like freedom of speech and expression,
right to practice any profession, etc. as belonging to
citizens only and the more general rights like the right to
equality before the law, as belonging to all persons; that
corporations may have nationality in accordance with the
country of their incorporation but that does not
necessarily confer citizenship on them. 7. This is also the view expressed in Dharam Dutt v.
Union of India , (2004) 1 SCC 712. We are of the opinion
that where companies approach the Court complaining of
violation of Fundamental Rights the pleadings must, in
the nature of basics, clearly spell out the manner in which
individuals or natural persons are affected. In all the writ
petitions before us this aspect has been glossed over, and
in our considered opinion obviously for the reason that
when the corporate veil is lifted the alleged infraction of
these rights pertain to a negligible number of citizens.
The gravamen of the assault is predicated on the
infringement of the right to freedom of speech and
expression. The Petitioner must disclose the manner in
which Fundamental Rights of a citizen have been
violated. It may be possible, in an exceptional case, that
although the Petitioner is an incorporated entity, further
compounded by the fact that it is not an Indian citizen, the
views of reputed Indian journalists have been silenced. In such
cases, the siege may eventually turn out to be successful. This
does not detract from the necessity to carefully plead necessary
details and circumstances showing that the plaintive cry is of an
Indian citizen and not of a foreigner. 8. Indo-China Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. v. Jasjit Singh,
Additional Collector of Customs , 1964 (6) SCR 594 was decided
by a Constitution Bench comprising five members of the larger
STC case. The facts were that a vessel had contravened the
provisions of Section 52A of the Sea Customs Act when it
entered the Calcutta Port. Learned Counsel for the Petitioner
had sought to argue that if mens rea was not an essential 268 element of Section 52-A that provision would be ultra vires Articles 14 , 19 and 31(1) and as such unconstitutional and
invalid. The Constitution Bench observed that the
Appellant was "not only a company, but also a foreign
company, and as such is not entitled to claim the benefits
of Article 19. It is only citizens of India who have been
guaranteed right to freedom enshrined in the said
Article......The plain truth is that certain rights guaranteed
to citizens of India under Article 19 are not available to
foreigners and pleas which may successfully be raised by
the citizens on the strength of the said rights guaranteed
under Article 19 would, therefore, not be available to
foreigners". This very question thereafter arose before
another Constitution Bench in Tata Engineering and
Locomotive Co. Ltd. (Telco) v. State of Bihar , 1964 (6)
SCR 885 and yet again was rejected. Following the STC
case the Constitution Bench opined that the "Petitioners
cannot be heard to say that their shareholders should be
allowed to file the present petitions on the ground that, in
substance, corporations and companies are nothing more
than association of shareholders and members thereof.
In our opinion, therefore, the argument that in the
present petition we would be justified in lifting the veil
cannot be sustained". Thereafter the decision of the
Bench of eleven Judges in Rustom Cavasjee Cooper v.
Union of India , (1970) 1 SCC 248 reiterated the same
legal position. It opined that a company registered under
the Companies Act is a legal person, separate and distinct
from its individual members. All its shareholders may not
be entitled to move a petition for infringement of the
rights of the company unless by the impugned action his
right had also been infringed. On facts it was found that
the Petitioner had challenged the alleged infringement of
his own rights and hence he had the legal capacity to file
and pursue the writ petition. The challenge concerned the
commercial interests of the Petitioner as a shareholder
and not for safeguarding his freedom of speech and
expression. 9. The Constitution Bench thereafter encountered this
very legal nodus in Benett Coleman & Co. v. Union of India ,
(1972) 2 SCC 788. Their Lordships noted that neither in Express
Newspapers (P) Ltd. v. Union of India , 1959 SCR 12 : AIR 1958 269 SC 578 nor in Sakal Papers (P) Ltd. v. Union of India , (1962) 3
SCR 842 : AIR 1962 SC 305 had any plea been raised about the
maintainability of the writ petition. It bears highlighting that so
far as Sakal was concerned it had only two shareholders who
had joined the litigations as petitioners. Furthermore, the case
projected by Sakal was that owing to its comparatively wide
circulation, it was instrumental in playing a leading part in the
dissemination of news and views and in moulding public opinion
in matters of public interest. Sakal had also asseverated that it
was not aligned with any political party and that the public
referred to and replied upon the opinions articulated in it on
controversial issues. We wish to emphasize that this role, which
is quite distinct to simple entertainment, has always been
considered so vital to nation building and social awareness that
it has in almost all legal systems been accorded preeminence.
Hence it has been viewed as a freedom and not a mere right. To
put entertainment on parity with freedom of speech and
expression seems to us to trivialize the function of the press and
therefore to be logically and legally incongruent. After discussing
the cases already mentioned by us above, Their Lordships spoke
as follows: The fact that the companies are the petitioners does not
 prevent this Court from giving relief to the shareholders,
 editors, printers who have asked for protection of their
 fundamental rights by reason of the effect of the law and of
 the action upon their rights. The locus standi of the
 shareholder petitioners is beyond challenge after the ruling
 of the Supreme Court in the Bank Nationalization case
 (supra). The presence of the company is on the same ruling
 not a bar to the grant of relief. 10. A couple of years thereafter, another Constitution
Bench in the case The State of Gujarat v. The Ambica Mills Ltd.,
Ahmedabad , (1974) 4 SCC 656 recorded that in view of Telco,
Cooper and Benett Coleman it had been settled "that a
corporation is not a citizen for the purposes of Article 19 and
has, therefore, no Fundamental Right under that Article". This
conundrum has also been considered by H.M. Seervai in the
treatise "Constitutional Law of India" IV Edn. where the learned
author and distinguished Advocate had expressed the view that
this state of the law is unsatisfactory. However, after culling out
and expressing the view in paragraph 10.26 on page 708, the
opinion has been expressed that a corporation seeking to
enforce Fundamental Rights must fulfil two conditions--(a) the
majority of its shareholders must be Indian citizens and (b) its
management and control must in the hands of Indian citizens.
This discussion discloses the undisputed view that foreigners
and foreign corporations cannot enforce the Fundamental Rights
enshrined in Part III of the Constitution. 11. We have already analysed the respective
shareholding of the Petitioners, brushing aside the skein of
holding companies, and the minuscule and infinitesimal number
of shares in Indian hands. Mr. Shenoy has forcefully posited that
the Indian Constitution, as explained in Benett Coleman, does
not consider it essential that a 'class action' should be initiated
in order to successfully withstand an assault on the
Fundamental Right of a citizen; nay, even a single citizen has
the inviolable right to enforce compliance and respect to his
Fundamental Rights. In our opinion whilst there is no scope for
applying a quantitative test a qualitative test is essential in such 271 matters. As has specifically been observed in Benett
Coleman the rights of a writer or Editor of freedom of
speech and expression must be protected. But these
rights cannot be confusedly and incorrectly enforced in
favour of persons not falling in this category. A single
shareholder may have sufficient locus standi to fight the
cause of a company whose commercial interests are
common to his, as had happened in the Bank
Nationalization cases. The employment of the word
'citizen' should not be washed away or watered down.
Bennet Coleman was not a foreign company. The right of
speech and expression, being zenithal in nature, is a
freedom incomparable to any other Fundamental Right.
Whilst its amplitude ought not to be circumscribed,
curtailed or restricted its immense impact on the
population requires its availability only to citizens.
EcoSOC in terms acknowledges and Advocates the
wisdom in preserving all existing cultures and customs. If
freedom of speech and expression is made available to
foreign entities it would directly result in imposing their
foreign cultural values on our society. In fact they are
already doing this unabashedly without any check or restraint
through their so-called family-life and other so-called
entertainment serials. They are displaying naked vulgarity
starting with innocent kids to above 60 years old women. They
are teaching bad manners, adultery, rapes, innovative methods
of murders, illegitimacy and all sorts of indecencies and crimes
to the Indian families which were hitherto foreign to Indian
culture. They have hijacked and monopolized the media from 24
× 7 hours. They are unashamedly indulging in cultural sabotage
from within the country and their role is like the role of Anti
National people and Public Enemies and is akin to the role of
terrorists but under the cover of media and in the name of
freedom of speech and expression. We cannot comprehend a
more belligerent use of these freedoms. The Respondents and
their associates have apparently shut their eyes, may be for
ulterior motives. The economic strength of Western countries
has an irresistible effect on changing the mindset of developing
nations and these societies tend to ape, copy, imitate and
replicate the economically advanced nations. Courts should be
loath to permit such an assault and invasion by indiscriminately
extending freedom of speech and expression under Article
19(1)(a) to persons who are not Indian citizens. It would be 272 relevant to recall that in CAB the Supreme Court had observed
 that--"what distinguishes the electronic media like the television
 from the print media or other media is that it has both audio
 and visual appeal and has a more pervasive presence. It has a
 greater impact on the minds of the viewers and is also more
 readily accessible to all including children at home." In that very
 case the Apex Court had noted the absence of any suggestion
 before it that acknowledgement of a foreign agency by the
 BCCI/CAB is violative of the provisions of Article 19(2) of the
 Constitution." (Emphasis supplied)

The High Court of Delhi holds that foreign Company cannot claim

fundamental rights under Article 19 , emphasizing that Companies

must be founded under Indian laws with Indian citizens majority

controlling management, to claim any such rights. 17.12. In the light of the law as laid down by the Apex

Court and that of other High Courts what would

unmistakably emerge is, that freedom under Article 19 cannot be claimed by a non-citizen. It can only by/for the

citizen. Therefore, it is citizen centric. The other Articles that

are pressed into service are Articles 14 and 21. The

petitioner has the status of an intermediary as defined under

the IT Act, 2000 and nothing beyond it. It is neither a citizen

of the country nor a natural person who can be permitted to 273 sue on the protective umbrella of Article 19. It is for the

individual citizens of the country, the right under Article 19 are provided. The petitioner, as observed hereinabove, is a

mere artificial juristic entity. Therefore, the challenge to a

Constitutional validity of a provision or a statute under the

Indian law cannot be permitted, particularly under the garb

of violation of right guaranteed under Article 19. more so, in

the light of the fact that the pleading of the petitioner, at paragraph

22 of the petition, reads as follows: under Section 2(1)(w) of the IT Act". The petitioner pleads that it is a Company incorporated under the

laws of United States of America. It operates in India as an

intermediary, as obtaining under Section 2(1)(w) of the IT Act. 17.13. The Writ Petition appends to it an affidavit, the

signatory to the affidavit is a non-Indian citizen. All these are clear

instances of the petitioner not having any right to question any law

of this nation, particularly on the premise that it violates tenets of 274 Article 19 of the Constitution of India. Therefore, the plea projected

before this Court, on the strength of Article 19 of the Constitution

is, on the face of it, untenable. The issue is thus, answered. ISSUE NO.9: 18.1. To consider the said issue, it is germane to notice the

genesis of the portal. Rule 3(1)(d ) supra of the IT Rules, 2021

specifies issuance of a notification for the purpose of execution of

orders under Section 79(3)(b) of the IT Act and that would be

issued to the intermediary by an authorized agency, notified by the

appropriate Government. The learned Solicitor has placed on

record, the reason for establishment of a Portal, which according to

him is a facilitation Portal, for the convenience of all stakeholders. Elaborate justification is made in the written submissions placed 275 before the Court by the learned Solicitor. I deem it appropriate to

paraphrase the same. The onboarding of the intermediaries shall be ongoing
process. 315. It is submitted that the LEAs of 28 States, 5UTs
and 06 Central Ministries/Department namely the
Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of
Finance (FIU&DGGI), Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting, Ministry of Rural Development and Ministry of
Heavy Industries have notified the nodal officers/authorized
agency under Section 79(3)(b) of the IT Act, 2000 to issue
notices for removal or disable access to any information,
data, or communication link which is being used to commit
an unlawful act available on Intermediary platforms. The UTs
of Chandigarh, Lakshadweep & Dadra and Nagar Haveli and
Daman and Diu are yet to notify the authorized agencies and
their nodal officers. The process of creating login credentials
for the authorized officers is under process." (Emphasis added) 281 Having noticed the elaborate justification placed on record, this

Court is satisfied that the Sahyog portal is not an instrument of

censorship, but a facilitation mechanism intended to streamline

communication between authorized agencies and intermediaries. The recitals of difficulties faced by both the law enforcement

agencies and intermediaries ranging from lack of reliable contact

information to duplication of notices, delays and absence of

accountability - demonstrates, the pressing need for a centralized

and standardized platform. Therefore, the justification is completely

acceptable. The nomenclature "Sahyog' means co-operation is itself

indicative of the collaborative intent underlying its establishment. It

serves as an administrative channel, a digital post office of sorts

ensuring efficiency and traceability. Since power to issue binding

blocking directions, as submitted by the learned Solicitor General,

remains exclusively under Section 69A of the IT Act and the

Blocking Rules of 2009. To describe Sahyog as a 'censorship portal'

is, therefore, a mischaracterization that cannot be sustained. Therefore, it is only a portal under a single umbrella, for the

purpose for which it is established and the purpose is narrated

hereinabove. Wherefore, the Sahyog Portal does not suffer from 282 any vice of unconstitutionality. The submission is thus noted to be

rejected and the issue is answered repelling the said contention. NODAL OFFICERS: (Emphasis supplied) 283 The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, have by an

office memorandum dated 31st October 2023, directed designation

and notification of Nodal Officer to handle unlawful

content/information/activities in cyberspace. The office

memorandum reads as follows: 4. Therefore, it is imperative that the corresponding
Nodal Ministries/ Departments, as an Appropriate Government
for the law / act administered by them, may address the issue
of online unlawful contents in an effective manner. 5. In this regard, each appropriate government may
consider the following: 6. For issuing notices to the appropriate Intermediary
platform, hosting or controlling the said unlawful information
(brought to your knowledge either through grievances,
complaints or as suo-moto), a sample templates for content
removal requests / takedown notice is placed in Annexure I.
Since this is an evolving process, Meity will facilitate resolving 286 any technological/ feasibility issue or any other technical
 support as may be required to identify the right intermediary. Encl: As above

 Sd/- (Dr. Sandip Chatterjee)
 Group Coordinator (Cyber Law & Data Governance) & Scientist
 G
 Tel.: 011-24363094
 Email: [email protected] To 1. All Central Ministries / Departments 2. The Chief Secretaries and DCPs of all States / Union
 Territories" ... 2. This Notification shall remain in force from the date of
its publication in the Official Gazette. [F. No. N-24015/3/2024-Computer Cell]
 MUKESH SUNDRIYAL, Under Secy. (Computer Cell)" 2. This Notification shall remain in force from the date of
its publication in the Official Gazette. [F. No. N-24015/5/2024-Computer Cell]
 MUKESH SUNDRIYAL, Under Secy. (Computer Cell)" Rule 4 directs that every organisation for the purpose of these

Rules, shall designate one of its officers as the Nodal Officer and

shall intimate the same to the Central Government in the

Department of Information and Technology and also publish the

name of the said Nodal Officer. This was a question that is raised in

SHREYA SINGHAL which affirms Rule 4 of the Blocking Rules and

appointment of the Nodal Officer. The designation, as observed,

emanates from 3 statutes, all intertwined with one solitary purpose

of handling unlawful content, information and activity in the

cyberspace. Therefore, Nodal Officers, are not dropped from air, but

emanate from Statutes. The blocking of information in case of

emergency is found in Rule 9 of the said Rules. The Nodal Officers

who are appointed under the Rules will hand out notices to the

intermediary to take down unlawful information that is floated on

the platform of the intermediary. Several such notices are now

called in question in the case at hand. Therefore, it becomes

necessary to refer to one of the notices issued to the Nodal Officer

of the petitioner. It reads as follows: Sd/- (Rahul Kant Sahu)
 DGM (14C)" The criminal liability under the TAKE IT DOWN Act is as follows: Notice and removal requirements under the TAKE IT DOWN Act is

as follows: 22.1. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner has

vehemently contended that the platform has no human hand. It is

only a platform where content creators create their content, post it

on the platform. It is all machine driven or at best artificial

intelligence driven. There is no human hand involved. Therefore,

who the State is trying to regulate, cannot be a machine. The

learned Solicitor General would vehemently refute this submission,

in contending that, it is the algorithm, that the platform operates,

through human intervention, which brings a post which is, for

illustration at 300 posts down on a particular platform, to become

the first post. It is his submission that algorithms are operated by

human hands. Therefore, it becomes necessary to notice the

intertwined concept of algorithms and the human hand. 22.2. Algorithms are often presented as neutral,

mathematical systems that generate outcomes free from human

bias. This is the myth, in reality, algorithms are conceived,

designed and trained by human beings. Every line of the code is a

part of the creation of the creator. The algorithms are not

independent actors, they are extensions of human judgment

encoded in a mathematical form. No algorithm exists in isolation. Its efficacy depends on the data it processes and that data is itself

a product of human activity. Today, algorithms are

everywhere, they decide what news you see on social media; how maps guide you through traffic; what prices you pay on

e-commerce sites; which job applications pass the first

round of screening; it is in healthcare. Law enforcement

agencies flag algorithms as suspicious, patterns of

behaviour. Algorithms today have become instruments of

power, they can amplify voices or silence them, open

opportunities or close them, therefore, every algorithm

reflects the human hand, it is a human imprint. The

Engineer who writes the code, the policy maker who sets the 298 goal, the Manager who decides to collect the data, are all

human beings. 22.3. Therefore, the submission of the learned senior counsel

that there is no human hand involved in the platform is noted only

to be rejected. As observed, the algorithms decide what news you

see on social media, it is therefore, when an unlawful content or a

defamatory topic or the integrity of any nation is posted on the

platform like the petitioner, the algorithms bring it to the top with a

few likes on it, as the likes go up, the algorithm speed up, this is

how the algorithm works. The petitioner cannot escape the hand of

law, on a submission that the platform cannot be regulated, as it

has no human intervention. Time has come that the legal systems

must insist upon transparency, explainability and human

responsibility, as, in the algorithm, the human hand is present in

every stage, right from conception to enforcement, which passes

through coding, training and development. 22.4. From the Constitutional stand point, such algorithms

cannot be permitted to erode fundamental rights, under the guise 299 of technological neutrality. The law cannot abdicate its role merely

because technology mediates the act. In essence, the

algorithms may be new order of the day, but the

Constitutional demand is old. Power, whether human or

digital, must remain accountable. ISSUE NO.11: 23. In the light of the preceding analysis, it becomes

necessary to notice the menace generated by social media and the

growing necessity to regulate it. 23.1. Scholars across the globe have repeatedly underscored

this paradox. On the one hand, the social media is hailed as a

harbinger of new information order; on the other, it is indicated as

the fountain head of misinformation, disinformation and malice. To

borrow from the article The Menace of Fake News in the Rise in 300 the Use of Social Media39 the platform that once promised

enlightenment has become the stage of falsehood. Excerpts from

the article read as follows: (Emphasis added)

 23.2. Likewise, social media, opening new avenues for

perpetrators to threaten and intimidate has also been subject of a

study. Today no longer does someone need to physically stalk their

prey to deliver a message; they can now threaten anyone, 302 anywhere with just one click of their cell phone. This is what is

analyzed in the article - 'Prosecuting Threats in the Age of

Social Media40'. Relevant excerpts of the article which are

necessary to be noticed, are as follows: exception to the freedom of speech-permitting a state
to ban "those statements where the speaker means to
communicate a serious expression of an intent to
commit an act of unlawful violence to a particular
individual or group of individuals"' whether a declarant
must subjectively desire to threaten someone to be
found outside First Amendment protection is a question
the Court has yet to resolve. Yet, the answer to this
question is critically important to state legislatures and
local law enforcement agencies who must respond to
the seeming explosion of online threats. In 2015, it appeared that the Court was prepared to
answer this intent question. In Elonis v. United States, the
Court considered "[w]hether, consistent with the First
Amendment . .. conviction of threatening another per
son requires proof of the defendant's subjective intent
to threaten."' At issue was a defendant's federal
conviction for online harassment under 18 U.S.C. §
875(c), which makes it a federal crime to "'transmit[] in 304 interstate or foreign commerce any communication
containing . .. any threat to injure the person of
another." The defendant had been convicted under a
"reasonable person" standard, which allowed for conviction if
the evidence demonstrated that a reasonable person would
regard the statement as threatening. Whether the defendant
actually sought to threaten his victim was not relevant under
this objective, general intent standard. Instead of considering the First Amendment principles at
play, however, the Court sidestepped the constitutional issues
and decided the case on a statutory basis. Specifically, the
Court held that in "interpreting federal criminal statutes that
are silent on the required mental state, we read into the
statute 'only that mens rea which is necessary to separate'
wrongful conduct from 'otherwise innocent conduct." Here,
mere negligence would not suffice." As such, a defendant
needed to act with some higher level of culpable awareness to
be convicted. Because the court below erred when it used a
negligence standard, the conviction was reversed. Of
consequence, however, the Supreme Court did not determine
which level of culpability was necessary for conviction under
the federal statute. Whether purposefulness or knowledge was
required, or whether recklessness alone would suffice, was left
for another day. Nor did the Court have reason to answer a
threshold question Justice Ginsberg posed at oral argument: What happened in Los Angeles, regrettably, was not an
isolated incident. Social media, and other electronic
communication forms (e.g., emails, texts), has opened new
avenues for perpetrators to threaten and intimidate. No longer
does someone need to physically stalk their prey to deliver a
message; they can now threaten anyone, anywhere with just
one click of their cell phone. And because the threatening
communications are often prepared in private and can be
delivered anonymously, they are not regulated by social norms
that would harshly condemn such behavior. Thus, it should
come as little surprise that threats are increasing every year
and online threats are fueling that growth. A 2015 study conducted by the National School
Safety and Security Services found that the act of
calling in a bomb threat has become a thing of the past-
37% of threats studied "were sent electronically, using 307 social media, email, text messaging and other online
resources. Social media threats, alone, account for 231
threats (28%)." Cyberstalking is also on the rise, with
perpetrators turning to social media to announce what
harm they intend to do to their victims. Further, "apps
like Yik Yak, After School and Whisper are creating
special problems for investigators because [culprits]
can post anonymously, making it harder to track down
offenders." And when the Elonis decision is added to the
calculus-which has made a federal prosecutor's job more
difficult by requiring a higher level of culpability before a
conviction can be attained-policing and successfully
prosecuting online threats can be a difficult road to travel. .................................... C. RECKLESSNESS IN THE AGE OF SOCIAL MEDIA

 In his Elonis concurrence, Justice Alito laments that
"[a]ttorneys and judges need to know which mental state is
required for conviction under 18 U.S.C. §875(c), an important
criminal statute.... But the Court refuses to explain what type
of intent was necessary." Undaunted, the Justice proceeds to
answer the ultimate question left open. As an initial matter, he
agrees with the majority that section 875(c) requires a higher
mens rea culpability level than negligence. One step above
negligence on the hierarchy of criminal culpability lies
recklessness. For the Justice, recklessness is the appropriate
mental state. "[W]hen Congress does not specify a mens rea
in a criminal statute, we have no justification for inferring that
anything more than recklessness is needed." Overreaching and
imposing a "purposely" or "knowingly" standard would cross
"over the line that separates interpretation from amendment."
And besides, for the Justice, recklessness is sufficient: As for Elonis's First Amendment concerns, Justice
Alito deftly dispatches with them. As an initial matter,
the Justice rightly observes that "[t]rue threats inflict 308 great harm and have little if any social value." The
argument that threatening language made without the
intent to threaten may be either "therapeutic" or
"artistic" completely fails to appreciate that "whether or
not the person making a threat intends to cause harm,
the damage is the same." On balance, for the Justice,
"the fact that making a threat may have a therapeutic
or cathartic effect for the speaker is not sufficient to
justify constitutional protection." Justice Alito then
addresses the concern that a recklessness standard
would chill speech by penalizing "statements that may
be literally threatening but are plainly not meant to be
taken seriously."Analogizing to the Court's libel
jurisprudence, Justice Alito argues that the freedom of
speech is amply protected when the law requires proof
that threatening statements were made with reckless
disregard as to their threatening nature. Assuming arguendo, that Justice Alito's analysis is
correct-that the statute compels a recklessness standard and
that the First Amendment condones it-on a policy level, is
recklessness appropriate? Does it actually remove dangerous
people from the community and deter other criminal behavior?
Does it take into consideration the unique nature of online
communications? Or does it cast too broad of a net, ensnaring
innocent behavior? A person acts "recklessly" if he "disregards a
substantial and unjustifiable risk that" his
communication is threatening or that someone may be
threatened by his words. Context matters under this
standard. Unlike the reasonable person standard, which
simply asks whether someone reasonable would
consider the message threatening, the recklessness
standard gets into the mind of the speaker and requires
a prosecutor to demonstrate that the speaker was
aware that his words could be viewed as threatening
and that he, nonetheless, transmitted the
communication in spite of it. .............. ............ .......... Or should the recipient bear the risk? After all, social
media allows for the distribution of communications to 309 far wider audiences than the speaker can fairly
anticipate. A private message can be shared, retweeted,
snapped, and reposted within seconds and quickly
spread virally, and all without the speaker's consent. A
communication meant as a joke between two friends
can become a deranged threat to kill children that a
person thousands of miles away, in another country no
less, finds credible. People's sense of what is
threatening has yet to catch up with technology. They
fail to appreciate their lack of context and do not have
the sense to seek it out. Just because words can be
misconstrued online does not mean that the default
position should be that the speaker is punished for
someone else's misinterpretation. In the end, the recklessness standard in today's
reality of constant un-filtered online communication
would at best chill speech (if the speakers were even
aware that sarcasm had been elevated to a federal
offense); at worst, it would wrongly prosecute and
convict citizens exercising their freedom of speech.
More troubling, the standard would enable and
embolden prosecutors to charge and prosecute
innocent, if perhaps careless, speakers under the lesser
culpability standard. On balance, the better rule to protect
speech and public safety would be to require proof that the
defendant purposely issued a threat or did so with the
knowledge that his communication would be viewed as a
threat. True credible threats of violence, like those at issue in
Elonis, can be successfully prosecuted under the heightened
culpability standards. Recklessness is unnecessary to deter
criminal behavior or remove dangerous people from social
media. Instead, it has the potential to sweep in innocent, but
careless, speech. In so doing, the recklessness standard fails
to elevate moral culpability above negligence. The accused is
still being tried and convicted for "an unwarrantable act
without a vicious will." (Emphasis added) 310 23.3. Studies have emerged with regard to dangers of social

media for human psyche, which would mean, that it does affect one

psychologically. The most important aspect of this is, antisocial

behaviour online and cyber bullying, which has been analysed in

the article - 'The Dangers of Social Media for the Psyche'41. The relevant excerpts of the article reads as follows: Study would reveal as follows: 23.4. The social media networking sites are sometimes

described as demons of modern age. An article named 'Dangers

and Demons of Social Media Networks and Their Effects on 314 Litigation in the Modern Age'42, published on that issue would

throw light on demonization of social media: This definition provides a very broad and general idea of
what Facebook and other social media networking platforms are
designed to do. They help you reconnect with old friends long
forgotten, investigate the cute guy from work, and post photos
from your travels and adventures, even if those adventures only
take you as far as your local Target home furnishing section. Understanding the ownership and privacy rights of social
media ESI is counter-intuitive. When creating a Facebook
account, users are unlikely to read the 14,000-word service
agreement, which is a prerequisite for account creation. This is a
legal contract between the user and Facebook. Who actually
knows what they have signed up for? Although the users' account may be set to "private" rather
than "public," nothing you do on Facebook is private. Nothing,
Despite a user's privacy settings, Facebook has the ability to use
all information received. Facebook tracks advertisements you
watch, keywords from your timelines, comments posted onto
friends posts or timelines, and things you share. Facebook even
monitors things users type, then delete, to monitor how
Facebook users "self-censor". Facebook also has the ability to
manage and manipulate account holder's photos, usernames,
content, and information without any compensation to the user.
However, given a user's privacy settings, Facebook will honor to
not share information contrary to those settings. Similar
arrangements are utilized through sites like Twitter and
Linkedln. This impulsive click of "agreement" perpetuates a
societal demon of ambivalence. Despite agreeing that
technology is dehumanizing society, millennials remain glued to
their smartphones and tablets. Despite the complete
relinquishment of privacy and control of data and information
put into the hands of social networking platforms, the
population of Earth continues to sign up and provide terabytes
of data to social networking sites each day. B. Impression Management 316 Users of social media often display the person that they
most desire to be on their profiles. While there are "About Me" At face value, this test debunks all theories and assertions
that any social media posts and photos could be considered
privileged, despite attempts to create this newfound privilege by
some attorneys. Essentially, a claimant would have to prove that
the information posted would have some degree of
confidentiality. This claim contradicts the entire theory behind
social media accounts: sharing personal information with large
groups of people on the Internet. How about a user's name and password? Are those
credentials privileged? The McMillen court ruled that it
was not. In a personal injury action, Plaintiff Bill McMillen
sought to recover damages after being injured in a stock
car race.McMillen received discovery requests for his
Facebook login credentials but objected to the request on
the grounds the information was confidential and
privileged. After reviewing the public portions of
McMillen's Facebook page, the attorney for Defendant
Hummingbird Speedway filed a motion to compel
McMillen's login credentials based on the belief that
relevant evidence was contained in the private portions
of McMillen's Facebook account.The motion was granted.
The court ruled that litigants should be allowed to utilize
"all rational means for ascertaining the truth" based on
the idea that McMillen could not have had a reasonable
expectation of privacy given the nature of social media
accounts. The court makes no reference to the Fourth
Amendment, but the theory behind Katz lingers.The court
rejected the idea of creating specialized discovery
privileges like McMillen requested. Instead of ordering a discovery production, the McMillen
court skips a step, and gives direct access to the electronic
information. This method of "direct access" and further issues 321 associated with this form of production will be assessed in
 Section III of this Note. Similar access was granted in the case
 of Romano v. Steelcase, Inc., in which a New York trial court
 granted direct access to a plaintiff's Facebook and MySpace
 account.These cases should stand as a warning for litigants. In
 lieu of producing photos, a court could order the production of a
 client's login credentials for direct access to the data being
 requested." (Emphasis added)

 23.5. Threats to security and privacy of information has been

the part of menaces. Phishing is a social engineering attack in which

the attacker communicates that his victim by disguising as a

trustworthy person or an organization to solicit their personal,

financial or business information. On the youth of the Nation, social

media has created havoc. A study of social media or a boon or

curse for the youth in India, elucidated in the article titled 'Social

Media: A Boon or Curse for the Youth in India'43, would reveal

startling details reading: (Emphasis added)

 23.6. If this be the general menaces, all social media

menaces caused by social media to women has proliferated

to a large extent. The United Nations General Assembly has

stepped up or intensified efforts to eliminate all forms of

violence against women and girls with particular reference

to technology facilitated violence against them and the

Secretary General of the United Nations has tabled a report titled

'Intensification of efforts to eliminate all forms of violence

against women and girls: technology-facilitated violence

against women and girls'44. The excerpts of the report reads as

follows: facilitated violence against women and girls, such as
deep fake pornography, are unique, they are part of the
continuum of multiple, recurring and interrelated forms
of violence across online and offline spaces. As
highlighted in the previous report of the Secretary-
General, the unique features of digital spaces that create
an enabling context for violence against women and girls
include the scale, speed and ease of communication and
anonymity, combined with automation, affordability and
impunity. The recent growth of generative AI, through
deep learning models, is exacerbating existing harms,
including through more convincing false media that can
be generated and disseminated automatically and at
scale. A newly emerging threat is compositional deep
fakes. Despite efforts to improve gender balance, the
technology sector remains a male-dominated industry. For
instance, women make up just 29.2 per cent of the science,
technology, engineering and mathematics workforce and only 30
per cent of the AI workforce. The absence of women, and their
perspectives, in the technology sector affects the extent to
which technologies are designed to be gender-responsive and
inclusive of and safe for women. Furthermore, as AI is based on
data that are often gender-biased, it risks replicating and
exacerbating gender-based discrimination. *** *** ***
A. Definitions of violence against women and girls in
 digital contexts are still evolving. 9. The absence of agreed definitions and
methodologies for measuring violence against women
and girls in digital contexts, coupled with widespread
underreporting, has hampered efforts to understand the
true extent of the issue. As there is currently no
internationally agreed definition of violence against 328 women in digital contexts, in the previous report of the
Secretary-General, "violence against women and girls in
digital contexts" was used to describe a wide range of
violence committed against women in digital spaces
and/or using information and communications
technologies. In the present report, the term
"technology-facilitated violence against women and girls" facilitated violence against women and girls, with
 significant impacts

 *** *** *** 18. Women with high levels of public visibility,
such as journalists, politicians and activists, continue to
be at significant risk. A 2021 report by the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO) found that 73 per cent of women journalists
interviewed reported having experienced online violence,
with journalists and politicians. Technology-facilitated
violence against women and girls election periods leading
to an intensification of violence towards both women is
often directed towards women who challenge gender
norms and patriarchal structures, for example, those who
defend women's human rights. Threats of violence
against family members of women in public life, including
rape threats against their young children, are also a
significant concern. 19. The harms caused by technology-facilitated
violence against women and girls at the individual level
can be physical, sexual, psychological, social, political or
economic. Violence in the online space may transition
offline in various ways, including coercive control,
surveillance, stalking, physical violence or even death. At
present, violence in online settings is not considered as
serious as some other forms of violence or crime, despite
the significant harms that may result. *** *** ***
E. The rapid growth of artificial intelligence has serious
 implications for violence against women and girls 22. AI is intensifying violence against women and
girls in numerous ways, both through the deliberate
spread of targeted disinformation and through the
automated, large-scale and often-unintended
promulgation of misinformation. Content produced by
generative AI can reinforce and intensify the misogynist
norms that justify, excuse and normalize violence against
women and girls and can enable and intensify the spread
of gendered misinformation and disinformation, including 330 more convincing fake news, hate speech, harassment and
attacks that fuel such violence. The sheer volume of
media created using ever more advanced generative AI is
obscuring the distinction between genuine, good
information and "fakeries". As a result, there are many
legal, social, regulatory, technical and ethical challenges. 23. Generative AI has also facilitated the
proliferation of image-based abuse, deepfake
pornographic videos and interactive deepfakes based on
deceptive and non-consensual sexually explicit content.
Deepfakes are perpetuating the harmful norms that
continue to enable and justify violence against women
and girls. Alarmingly, deepfakes are being used for
image-based abuse and harassment, including by
children in school settings. According to Sensity AI,
between 90 and 95 per cent of all online deepfakes are
non-consensual pornographic images, with around 90 per
cent of those images depicting women. The rise of
"sextortion" using deepfakes is also a growing concern,
where non-consensual fabricated images are shared
widely on pornographic sites to threaten or blackmail
people, inflicting significant harm. Victims of deepfakes
can suffer devastating consequences, including lasting
psychological trauma, reputational damage, social
isolation, financial harm and, in some cases, loss of life.
This harm disproportionately affects women and girls. 24. Deepfakes can also be fabricated by
synthesizing misinformation and disinformation across
several media types that corroborate one another,
facilitating coordinated gendered disinformation
campaigns and sexist hate speech which reinforce deeply
ingrained gender biases. Gendered disinformation
undermines efforts to prevent violence against women
and girls by reinforcing rigid stereotypes and harmful
norms. 25. As with other forms of online violence, the
anonymity of perpetrators is a barrier to ensuring that victims of
deepfakes have access to justice. Inadequate laws and
regulatory frameworks also uphold a culture of impunity
for perpetrators. Remedies for victim-survivors are often 331 limited and expensive and do not take into account the
long-term impacts of abuse. While online hate speech is
sometimes detected and censored by AI bots as part of
platforms' safety features, these guardrails are often not
up to standard. The adoption of coded language - such as
epithets to refer to specific individuals - can help
perpetrators escape detection, resulting in widespread
impunity and ongoing amplification. *** *** ***
G. Laws, policies and practices needed to respond to
 emerging trends

 *** *** *** 32. The implications of emerging trends, such as
generative AI, also require a holistic approach and
cooperation across the ecosystem of actors, in particular
generative AI companies that are content generators.
Content distributors, such as social media companies,
also play a critical role. The due diligence principle
continues to apply in the context of generative AI where
States have the obligation to ensure that both State and
non-State agents refrain from engaging in any act of
discrimination or violence against women and girls,
including due diligence obligations to prevent, investigate
and punish acts of violence against women and girls
committed by private companies, such as Internet
intermediaries (see A/HRC/38/47). *** *** *** 36. Actions by content distributors and content
generators are also important, such as: developing robust
methods of identifying generated media; openly sharing
their terms of service, safeguards and approaches to
monitoring use for inappropriate content; and responding
swiftly to reports of harmful content and analysing the
account generating or distributing the images. All
responses should ensure that women and girls harmed by
AI-generated content are not pushed out of the public
sphere. 37. Content distributors can also play a role in
 interrupting pathways, particularly for young men, into
 online forums that are fuelling misogynistic views, by
 removing channels and content that promote misogyny or
 de-ranking such online forums in search engines. Policies
 that seek to counter hate speech and violent extremism
 should address incel content and forums. Risk
 assessment frameworks for detecting the activity of
 extremist groups as a threat to national security - both
 online and offline - should also explicitly refer to incels
 and gender-based violence, the continuum of online and
 offline harm and the use of technology to perpetuate
 harmful misogynistic ideology as risk factors." (Emphasis added)

 23.7. The Impact and Policy Research Institute of the nation

has been calling for ending online violence against women in India

by an inclusive comprehensive and gender sensitive law and policy

frame work particularly in the cyberspace arena, and has published

an article titled 'Ending Online Violence Against Women in

India: Calling for an Inclusive, Comprehensive, and Gender- Sensitive Law and Policy Framework'45. The article reads as

follows: (Emphasis added)

 23.8. The excerpts afore-quoted cast an unflinching light

upon grim menace of social media and the proliferating spectre of

online crimes against women, in particular such crimes, it must be

underscored, do not ordinarily unfold through sending an e-mail,

rather, they insidiously take share across sprawling platform of

digital age - 'X' Instagram, Facebook and at times even on

WhatsApp. Primary among these, however, are the social

media forums, whose immense reach and immediacy makes

them fertile ground for both expression and exploitation. A

caveat, it must not be understood or misunderstood that this Court

seeks to advance the proposition that every cyber crime emanates

from social media only. It is beyond cavil that many grievous 338 offences are indeed birthed in these digital spheres, not at the

caprice of a few, but in a brazen defiance of laws duly enacted and

binding for the time being in force. When illegality goes

unchecked through the arteries of social media, a pressing

question confronts us; should such acts shall be permitted to

fester until the danger metastasizes into a malady

threatening the very fabric of society. Therefore, such acts

must be reined in through timely and effective regulation. 23.9. The reality stands stark; social media has not

been free from abuse. Like the two faces of a single coin, use

and misuse revolve together. When the wheel of use turns,

so too does the wheel of misuse. If misuse is unchecked will

wreak untold havoc particularly upon women, who too often

become its most vulnerable targets. A single post, once

marred by derogatory commentary, may in its very utterance

transgress the boundaries of law of the day and can such

affronts be left unregulated? Surely not. Regulation is not a

matter of choice, but a solemn necessity. Therefore,

regulating the social media is a must. The State, therefore, 339 carries the solemn obligation to align its regulatory

frameworks to the aforesaid menace, ensuring that digital

spaces do not become lawless territory where women's

rights are trampled with impunity, albeit, inter alia. 23.10. Insofar as the present petition is concerned, the

petitioner itself has published its transparency report for the month

of August, 2025 it reads as follows: 24.1. It is germane to notice the attitude of the petitioner,

not on the soil of this nation, but several countries for the matter. It has shown no respect to take down the content, as and when

they are directed to do so. For illustration, in 4 different countries

where there are take down orders, they are challenged. They are

as follows: platforms may be held civilly
 liable even without a prior
 court order. 24.2. The attitude is no different in the subject issue. Plethora of blocking orders have been called in question and an

interim order of stay is sought. The application, which by its

very tenor would imply that take down directives are

disregarded. Yet, this is not the first occasion on which the

present petitioner has sought to circumvent or challenge such

mandates. The take down order quoted hereinabove brooks no

ambiguity. Its source of authority is set forth. The violation

alleged is clearly delineated the offending, the offending URL is

annexed, the explicit command to remove is issued and still to

this day compliance remains wanting. 24.3. During the proceedings of hearing of the subject

petition, the learned Solicitor General had placed before this

Court the troubling instance of social media account operating

under the name of "Supreme Court of Karnataka", an account

left to persist in the petitioner's platform until it was exposed

during the proceedings. Within couple of minutes of such

exposure it was deleted. If such impersonation of a

constitutional Court can be permitted to exist, it would 345 underscore the truth that on the petitioner's platform

anything can be done, for no vigilant, guards its gates. If

it could be deleted in minutes after its exposure, it is

ununderstandable as to how such things remain to stay even

after certain take it down notices. Therefore, a balance must

be struck - a delicate equipoise between the sacred

liberty of free expression and the corrosive menace of

misuse. In the guise of free speech, menace cannot be

allowed to fester and allowed to spread. The petitioner, in

every jurisdiction does not take down, but chooses to challenge

those notices including the subject challenge, who in its very

homeland, the United States of America, the Take it Down Act extends its reach with pervasive force and the petitioner would

abide. If the petitioner does abide to pervasive force of

the TAKE IT DOWN Act in the United States of America,

why then before this Court a plea is projected bordering

on denial of compliance. Law cannot be honoured in one

jurisdiction and flouted in another. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS: Conceived under the authority of Section 79(3)(b) of
 the IT Act and Rule 3(1)(d) of the 2021 Rules, it
 stands as a beacon of cooperation between citizen and
 intermediary, a mechanism through which the State
 endeavours to combat the growing menace of
 cybercrime. To assail its validity is to misunderstand
 its purpose; hence, the challenge is without merit. (8) The judgment in SHREYA SINGHAL, predicated inter
 alia upon the reasoning in RENO v. ACLU, cannot by 348 judicial alchemy be transposed to the present
 controversy. RENO itself has been diluted in
 subsequent pronouncements of the American Supreme
 Court, SHREYA SINGHAL spoke to the 2011 Rules, now
 consigned to history. The 2021 Rules, fresh in their
 conception and distinct in their design, demand their
 own interpretative frame, unsaddled by precedents
 that address a bygone regime. (9) Social media, as the modern amphitheater of ideas,
 cannot be left in a state of anarchic freedom.
 Regulation of information in this domain is neither
 novel nor unique; the United States regulates it, every
 sovereign nation regulates it, and India's resolve to do
 likewise cannot, by any stretch of constitutional
 imagination, be branded unlawful. Unregulated
 speech, under the guise of liberty, becomes a licence
 for lawlessness. Regulated speech, by contrast,
 preserves both liberty and order, the twin pillars upon
 which any democracy must stand. (10) No social media platform, in the modern-day agora,
 may even feign the semblance of exemption from the
 rigour and discipline of the laws of this land. None may
 presume to treat the Indian marketplace as a mere
 playground, where information may be disseminated in 349 defiance of statutes, or in disregard of legality, while
 adopting a posture of detachment. (11) In the light of the observations made in the course of
 the order, the content on social media, needs to be
 regulated and its regulation is a must, more so, in the
 cases of offences against women in particular, failing
 which, the right to dignity of a citizen is railroaded. (12) We are a society governed by laws; order is the
 architecture of our democracy. Every platform that
 seeks to operate within jurisdiction of our nation,
 which they do, must accept that liberty is yoked to
 responsibility, and that the privilege of access carries
 with it the solemn duty of accountability. To hold
 otherwise is to imperil both the rule of law and the
 fabric of social harmony. (13) The petitioner's platform is subject to regulatory
 regime in the United States of America, its birthplace
 and foot-land under the TAKE IT DOWN Act, 2025. It
 chooses to follow the said Act, as it criminalizes the
 violation of orders of a take down, but the same
 petitioner refuses to follow in the shores of this nation
 of similar take down orders which are founded upon
 illegality, this is sans countenance. EPILOGUE: 25. For the aforesaid reasons, the petition lacking in merit

stands rejected. In the light of the rejection of the subject petition, the

application of the interveners, for the very reasons rendered in the

course of the order, stands rejected. This Court places its appreciation to the able assistance

rendered by Miss. Sai Suvedhya R., and Miss. Samriddhi N. Shenoy,

Law Clerk cum Research Assistants attached to this Court. Sd/- (M.NAGAPRASANNA)
 JUDGE

bkp
CT:MJ