1. The Applicant has filed this Application under Section 483 of the
 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 for enlarging the Applicant on
 Regular Bail in connection with FIR being C.R. No. 11198006250037 of 2025
 registered with Ghogha Road Police Station, Bhavnagar. 2. Heard learned Advocate for the Applicant and learned APP for the
 Respondent - State. Rule. Learned APP waives service of notice of Rule on behalf of the
 Respondent - State. 3. Learned Advocate for the Applicant has submitted that the Applicant
 has good reputation in the society and no useful purpose would be served by
 keeping the applicant in jail for indefinite period. It is further contended that
 the applicant is ready and willing to abide by all the conditions that may be
 imposed by this Court if released on bail. 4. Per contra, learned APP has opposed the present application for grant of
 regular bail contending that the present Applicant had acted as an intermediary
 between the other co-accused and the loan account holders and had also availed
 some financial gain out of the entire fraud. Learned APP has therefore
 submitted that looking to the nature of offence, this Court may not exercise the
 discretion in favour of the applicant and the Application may be dismissed. 5. Heard learned Advocates for the parties and perused the record. The
 investigation is over and charge sheet is filed. It is the cse of the prosecution
 that Applicant had acted as an intermediary between the other co-accused and
 the loan account holders and had also availed some financial gain out of the
 entire fraud. The other co-accused have been considered for grant of bail.
 Having regard to the nature of offence and considering the role attributed to the
 Applicant, the Application deserves consideration. This court has also
 considered the following aspects: (b) That the learned Advocate for the Applicant has submitted that the
 Applicant Accused is not likely to flee away. (c) That the Applicant is in custody since 4.03.2025. (d) The law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Sanjay
 Chandra v. C.B.I. Reported in (2012) 1 SCC 40. 6. Having heard the learned Advocates for the parties and perusing the
 record produced in this case as well as taking into consideration the facts of the
 case, nature of allegations, gravity of accusation, availability of the Applicant
 Accused at the time of Trial etc. and the role attributed to the present Applicant Page 2 of 4 Uploaded by J.N. WAGHELA(HC00178) on Fri Jun 27 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Jun 28 01:46:17 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/12013/2025 ORDER DATED: 25/06/2025

 undefined

 accused, the present Application deserves to be allowed and accordingly stands
 allowed. This Court has also gone through the FIR and police papers and also
 the earlier order passed by the learned Sessions Court where the learned
 Sessions Judge has disallowed the bail Application at initial stage. The
 Applicant Accused is ordered to be released on bail in connection with the
 aforesaid FIR on executing a personal bond of Rs.10,000/- with one surety of
 the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial Court, subject to the following
 conditions that he shall: 7. Bail bond to be executed before the Trial Court having jurisdiction to try
 the case. It would be open for the Trial Court concerned to give time to furnish
 the solvency certificate if prayed for. 8. If breach of any of the above conditions is committed, the Trial Court
 concerned will be free to issue warrant or take appropriate action according to
 law. The Authorities will release the Applicant forthwith only if the Applicant
 is not required in connection with any other offence for the time being. 9. At the trial, the concerned trial Court shall not be influenced by the
 prima facie observations made by this Court in the present order. 10. Rule is made absolute. Direct service permitted. (M. R. MENGDEY,J)
 J.N.W / 35 Page 4 of 4 Uploaded by J.N. WAGHELA(HC00178) on Fri Jun 27 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Jun 28 01:46:17 IST 2025