(Per: Ms. Kumkum Rani, President): (hereinafter to be referred as the District Commission) in consumer
complaint No. 655 of 2014 styled as Sh. Mahendra Kumar Mishra Vs.
Punjab National Bank and Anr., wherein and whereby the complaint was
allowed. 2. The facts giving rise to the appeal, in brief, are as such that the
respondent No. 1 - complainant is maintaining a saving bank account
bearing No. 4063000400090015 with the appellant bank - opposite party
No. 1 and he had used his ATM card on dated 03.10.2014 for withdrawal
of Rs. 10,000/- from the ATM machine of the respondent No. 2 - opposite
party No. 2 at Deshrakshak Aushdhalaya, Kankhal, District Haridwar, but
no amount was received by the complainant from the ATM machine and
the transaction was shown to have failed. The complainant had tried to
again insert the ATM card in the ATM machine, but the ATM machine did
not accept the ATM card. The complainant has withdrawn Rs. 10,000/-,
but as per mobile message he withdrew Rs. 10,000/- twice on the same day.
The complainant had immediately made a complaint oral as well as in
writing before the appellant Bank. Thereafter, the appellant Bank has
assured the complainant not to worry because sometime due to technical
defect in the ATM machine, the amount has not withdrawn and it would
come in the account after one week. After expiry of one week, Rs. 10,000/-
was not returned by the Bank and the complainant had requested the
opposite parties to show CCTV footage, but they have told that the CCTV
footage is not clear due to disorder of Camera. The complainant is a
consumer of the opposite parties and there was gross deficiency in service
on the part of the opposite parties, therefore, the complainant had to suffer
financial, mental and physical agony due to the said occurrence. Hence, in
such circumstances, the complaint was submitted before the District
Commission 2 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 06.09.2024
 310 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Mahendra Kumar Mishra & Anr. 3. The opposite party No. 1 - Punjab National Ban has submitted its
written statement alleging that it is wrong to say that on dated 03.10.2024
Rs. 10,000/- was not withdrawn through the ATM machine whereas the
proper entry was made in the statement of account. It is incorrect to say
that the ATM machine has shown the message of failed transaction of
Rs. 10,000/-. The contention of the complainant is also incorrect that the
ATM machine has become in disorder before the withdrawal of
Rs. 10,000/-, therefore the said amount were not withdrawn to the
complainant. It is also incorrect to say that the answering opposite party has
assured the complainant to return Rs. 10,000/- within a week to his account
and has denied to show CCTV footage. Thus, there was no negligence on
the part of the answering opposite party, hence the complaint is not liable
to be allowed. 4. The opposite party No. 2 has submitted its written statement alleging
that it was wrongly made a party in the complaint case. As per request of
the opposite party No. 1, the answering opposite party had enquired the
matter and made the enquiry, according to which the transaction of
Rs. 10,000/- on dated 03.10.2014 was found successful and no excessive
amount was withdrawal from the ATM machine and the information to this
effect was properly sent to the opposite party No. 1. There was no question
of unfair trade practice and deficient service on the part of the answering
opposite party. The guidelines and the necessary instructions were duly
complied with and there was no evidence of loss to the complainant. Thus,
the complainant is responsible for his own act for which the Bank is not
responsible, hence the complainant is not maintainable against the
answering opposite party. Therefore, the complaint is liable to be
dismissed. 5. After hearing both the parties and after taking into consideration the
pleadings and evidence available on record, passed the impugned judgment
and order on dated 27.04.2019 whereby the complaint was allowed
directing the opposite parties to pay Rs. 10,000/- alongwith simple interest
@ 6% p.a. from the date of filing of the complaint till its actual payment
and Rs. 2,000/- for litigation charges to the complainant within a month
from the date of order. 6. On having been aggrieved by the impugned judgment and order of
the District Commission, the opposite party No. 1 - Punjab National bank
has preferred the present appeal as appellant. 7. Learned counsel for the appellant has contended that the impugned
judgment and order is erroneous on facts as well as on law. The
Commission below has made undue importance to the fact that the amount
of Rs. 10,000/- was debited in the account of the respondent No. 1 -
complainant twice on the same day. It is further submitted that the District
Commission has failed to appreciate that it is possible that a person can
withdraw the same amount twice on the same day. It is also contended on
behalf of the appellant that the District Commission has failed to appreciate
the statement of the appellant and respondent No. 2 that the transaction was
successful since there was no excess cash in the ATM machine, but the
Commission below has passed the award to the respondent No. 1 -
complainant without any reasonable ground and disbelieving the evidence
of the appellant and respondent No. 2. Hence, the impugned judgment and
order is based on presumption and surmises not borne out of record.
Therefore, the impugned judgment and order should be set aside and the
appeal is liable to be allowed. 8. Respondents have not appeared before this Commission, hence, on
dated 05.07.2024 an order for ex-parte hearing has been passed against the
respondents. 9. We have heard learned counsel for the appellant and perused the
material available on record. 10. Learned counsel for the appellant has stated that a person can
withdraw the same amount on the same day twice. Therefore, there was no
illegality in withdrawing the same amount twice on the same day. 11. The appellant has not denied that there was no CCTV camera in the
ATM premises where the ATM machine was installed, but the appellant
has not submitted CCTV footage, wherein it is shown that Rs. 10,000/- was
withdrawn twice on the same day by the respondent No. 1 - complainant.
Apart from it, the appellant has not filed any cogent and reliable evidence
that there was a security guard facility outside the premises, where the ATM
machine was installed. 12. Vide letter of RBI dated 29.03.2011, the Reserve Bank of India had
issued some guidelines and a letter to this fact was sent to the Chairman
and Managing Director / Chief Executive Officers to take steps to put in
place a system of online alerts for all types of transactions irrespective of
the amount, involving usage of cards at various channels. As the Banks
were directed to implement this measure latest by June, 30 2011. So, as
per the literature, it is mandatory on the part of the bank to give SMS
alert facility while the transaction through debit / credit card was
made. The appellants plea is that the charges for SMS alert were not
paid by the respondent, hence such facility was not given, but as per
guidelines of RBI, any transaction made through debit / credit card,
such SMS alert facility should be given without any charges or free of 5 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 06.09.2024
 310 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Mahendra Kumar Mishra & Anr. charge. Thus, on such count, there was negligence on the part of the
appellant not taking appropriate security measures, online alerts to the
card-holders at the use of debit / credit card. As per guidelines of
RBI, a CCTV Camera should be installed inside the ATM centers. 13. The appellant has failed to prove that the ATM center, where the
alleged transactions were illegally and fraudulently made, have security
guard. It is also proved on record that CCTV camera footage has not
been submitted in evidence to prove that unmanned ATM centers in
isolated areas have the CCTV camera footage to record such incidents.
As the process to fix skimmers requires at least half an hour, it cannot
be done, if the center is guarded. Appellant has not submitted any
evidence regarding the fact that the security guard was properly appointed
/ deputed in the ATM centers wherefrom fraudulent transactions were
made. It usually happens that the skimmers and the gang opted four ATMs
because these facilities had neither a security guard, nor a CCTV camera. 14. We have also perused the guidelines of RBI through the notification
Nos. RBI/2013-14/296 dated 27.09.2013 and RBI/2017-18/15 dated
06.07.2017. In the above guidelines dated 06.07.2017, it is mentioned in
para Nos. 3, 4 & 5. ii. Face-to-face/ proximity payment transactions
 (transactions which require the physical payment
 instrument such as a card or mobile phone to be
 present at the point of transaction e.g. ATM, POS,
 etc.) 4. The systems and procedures in banks must be
 designed to make customers feel safe about carrying out
 electronic banking transactions. To achieve this, banks
 must put in place: SMS alerts shall mandatorily be sent to the customers,
 while email alerts may be sent, wherever registered. The
 customers must be advised to notify their bank of any
 unauthorised electronic banking transaction at the earliest
 after the occurrence of such transaction, and informed that
 the longer the time taken to notify the bank, the higher will
 be the risk of loss to the bank/ customer. To facilitate this,
 banks must provide customers with 24x7 access through
 multiple channels (at a minimum, via website, phone
 banking, SMS, e-mail, IVR, a dedicated toll-free helpline,
 reporting to home branch, etc.) for reporting unauthorised
 transactions that have taken place and/ or loss or theft of
 payment instrument such as card, etc. Banks shall also
 enable customers to instantly respond by "Reply" to the
 SMS and e-mail alerts and the customers should not be
 required to search for a web page or an e-mail address to
 notify the objection, if any. Further, a direct link for
 lodging the complaints, with specific option to report
 unauthorised electronic transactions shall be provided by
 banks on home page of their website. The loss/ fraud
 reporting system shall also ensure that immediate response
 (including auto response) is sent to the customers
 acknowledging the complaint along with the registered
 complaint number. The communication systems used by
 banks to send alerts and receive their responses thereto
 must record the time and date of delivery of the message
 and receipt of customer's response, if any, to them. This
 shall be important in determining the extent of a
 customer's liability. The banks may not offer facility of 8 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 06.09.2024
 310 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Mahendra Kumar Mishra & Anr. electronic transactions, other than ATM cash withdrawals,
 to customers who do not provide mobile numbers to the
 bank. On receipt of report of an unauthorised transaction
 from the customer, banks must take immediate steps to
 prevent further unauthorised transactions in the account." 15. From the record, it is also evident that the fraudulent and illegal
transaction was made through appellant bank. Respondent No. 1 has
clearly averred in the affidavit and evidence that he never withdraw the
same amount on the same day. 16. It is also evident on record that after receiving the information about
such transaction, the respondent No. 1 immediately informed the appellant
Bank. 17. All the above facts have revealed that the respondent No. 1 was
having a card in his saving account. It is proved that the respondent No. 1
had taken all the necessary steps which were required to be taken after
getting knowledge of illegal transaction. 18. In the guidelines RBI/2013-14/296 dated 27.09.2013, reference is
mentioned regarding the circular No. DPSS PD CO. No.
513/02.14.003/2011-2012 dated September 22, 2011 on security issues
and risk mitigation measures related to Card Present (CP) transactions and
circulars DPSS (CO) PD No. 1462/2377/02.14.003/2012-13 dated
February 28, 2013 and June 24, 2013 respectively on security and risk
mitigation measures for electronic payment transactions, wherein various
timelines were indicated for compliance. But several banks had
approached for seeking further extension of the time line of September 30,
2013 for complying with the task of securing the technology infrastructure. But the RBI had decided not to grant any further extension of time and
ordered the following course of action is mandated:- 19. Thus, as per the guidelines mentioned in the above said
notifications, if the issuing banks had not taken action upon receiving the 10 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 06.09.2024
 310 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Mahendra Kumar Mishra & Anr. complaint about illegal and fraudulent transactions of card holder, then the
issuing bank shall pay the disputed amount to the customers. 20. In the present case, the respondent No. 1 has made the intimation to
the Bank immediately about the fraudulent and illegal transactions, but the
appellant Bank did not take any action. 21. There are following case law with the issue involved in this appeal:- 22. In the case of Parveen Kumar Jain vs. HDFC Bank Ltd. (supra),
the Hon'ble National Commission has held that "as per these instructions,
there will be zero liability of a customer, where the unauthorized
transaction occurs in the events of Contributory fraud/ deficiency on the
part of the bank. The instructions also take care of third party breach where 11 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 06.09.2024
 310 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Mahendra Kumar Mishra & Anr. the deficiency lies neither with the bank nor with the customer but lies
elsewhere in the system. If customer notifies the Bank of such transaction
within three working days, then zero liability lies with the customer." In the above case , the Hon'ble National Commission has set aside
the order so the State Commission as well as District Commission and
allow the complaint with the directions to the respondent - HDFC Bank to
reverse the transactions with respect to the fraudulent transactions which
took place on dated 30.03.2014 for a total amount of Rs. 24,000/-. In case
this amount has already been recovered from the complainant, the Bank is
liable to refund the same alongwith interest / penalty charged on such
amount and such refund shall be payable to the complainant alongwith
interest with litigation charges. 23. In the case of State Bank of India vs. Dr. J.C.S. Kataky (supra),
the Hon'ble National Commission has held that "A plain reading of this
provision is sufficient to establish that once the complaint was made citing
specific incidents of unauthorised withdrawal, it was the duty of the Bank
to have carried out the necessary verification in the matter, rather than
washing their hands off from the whole episode. Evidently, there has been
deficiency in service on the part of the Bank, vis-à-vis, the
consumer/complainant. It is held, therefore, that the consumer fora below
have made a correct appreciation of the facts and circumstances on record
which deciding the complaint in favour of the complainant. Moreover, it
is a settled legal proposition that the powers in the exercise of the revisional
jurisdiction are used only if there is a jurisdictional error or material defect
in the orders passed by the consumer fora". Therefore, on such discussion,
the Hon'ble National Commission dismissed the revision petition on merit. 24. In the case of Chairman, Punjab National Bank & Anr. vs.
Leader Valves Ltd. (supra), the Hon'ble National Commission has held 12 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 06.09.2024
 310 of 2019 Vs.
 Sh. Mahendra Kumar Mishra & Anr. that "it is seen that the Complainant, on his part, had been diligent and
dutiful in bringing the unauthorized transfers to the notice of the Bank
without undue delay, he brought the unauthorized transactions to the
Bank's notice the same day, in the evening, on checking his accounts. His
responsibility ended there, and the Bank's responsibility started, it was the
Bank's responsibility to identify the systemic failure, remedy the pecuniary
loss and injury to the Complainant." In the abovesaid case, the Hon'ble National Commission has also
confirmed the order of the State Commission wherein the award was made
in favour of the complainant. 25. In the case of HDFC Bank Limited and another vs. Jesna Jose (supra), the Hon'ble National Commission has held that "The first
fundamental question that arises is whether the Bank is responsible for an
unauthorized transfer occasioned by an act of malfeasance on the part of
functionaries of the Bank or by an act of malfeasance by any other person
(except the Complainant / account-holder). The answer, straightaway, is in
the affirmative. If an account is maintained by the Bank, the Bank itself is
responsible for its safety and security. Any systemic failure, whether by
malfeasance on the part of its functionaries or by any other person (except
the consumer / account-holder), is its responsibility, and not of the
consumer." and dismissed the revision and confirmed the order of the State
Commission as well as the District Commission. 26. The appellant had not filed any such cogent evidence to this effect
that the respondent No. 1 was negligent and he has shared his confidential
information about his card to someone else, therefore, we find no
negligence or carelessness on the part of the respondent No. 1. 27. We are of the considered view that the District Commission has not
committed any error in awarding the sum of Rs. 10,000/- alongwith simple
interest @ 6% p.a. and Rs. 2,000/- for litigation charges to the respondent
No. 1 - complainant. Thus, we are of the considered view that the District
Commission has exercised the jurisdiction which was vested in it and the
impugned judgment is perfectly and appropriately passed by the District
Commission concerned. There is no perversity and infirmity in passing of
the impugned judgment. Thus, the impugned judgment deserves to be
affirmed and the appeal is liable to be dismissed. 28. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed. Impugned judgment and
order dated 27.04.2019 passed by the District Commission, Haridwar is
hereby affirmed. No order as to costs of the appeal. 29. A copy of this Order be provided to all the parties free of cost as
mandated by the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 / 2019. The Order be
uploaded forthwith on the website of the Commission for the perusal of
the parties. The copy of this Order be sent to the concerned District
Commission for record and necessary information. 30. File be consigned to record room along with a copy of this Order. (Ms. Kumkum Rani)
 President

 (Mr. B.S. Manral)
 Member
Pronounced on: 06.09.2024 14