1. Since these applications arise out of the same crime number and
are related to the same offence they have been heard together and are
being decided by a common order. 2. This is the first application under Section 439 of Criminal
Procedure Code, 1973, as the applicants are implicated in connection
with Crime No.407/2020 registered at Police Station - Dhamnod,
District - Dhar (M.P.) for offence punishable under Section 420 , 406 of IPC and Section 4 , 6 of M.P. Nikshepakon Ke Hiton Ka Sanrakshan 2 Adhiniyam, 2000. 3. The applicants are in custody since 12/04/2021, 10/09/2021 and
10/09/2021 respectively. 4. As per prosecution, on 22/07/2020 a complaint was made by the
complainant Bhagwan S/o Balu Patidar to the effect that in 2009-10
one Vijay told him about a company named Swaraj India Real Estate
Ltd., who receives money from the general public and invests in land
and thereafter returns the money to the investors at interest more than
that of bank and post office. He then took the complainant to the
Dhamnod branch of the company where he was met with by the
applicant Jaychandra Jha who was one of the directors of the company.
Jaychandra Jha explained him to regarding plans of the company and
also showed him the registration certificate of the company and its
other documents. He was told that if he invests money in the company
he would get very high returns. 5. On understanding the various schemes he invested
Rs.5,67,350/-, his wife Sunitabai invested Rs.2,50,000/-, Ajay Verma
invested about Rs.10,00,000/-, Chandabai invested about
Rs.10,00,000/- and Rajesh invested about Rs.8,00,000/- in the
company. Upon expiry of the maturity period when the complainant
and other investors went to receive the amount from the company
Jaychandra Jha informed that there is lack of funds and payment shall
be made after some time. He then met one Jagannath who also said the
same thing. Despite repeated efforts having upon made by the
complainant the invested amount was not returned to him and other
investors and the branch of the company was closed. Upon enquiry it
was found that registration of the company had come to an end in the
year 2015 itself yet the same was carrying on business in the year 2019
also. The company through applicants has received money from him
and other investors and has misappropriated the same. 6. On lodging of the complaint by the complainant investigation
was commenced by the police during course of which various similar
complaints were made by other investors also. In the investigation it 3 was found that registration of the company has expired in the year
2015 itself yet it has continued to carry-on the business even then and
through the applicants has received huge sums from various investors
and upon expiry of maturity period of investment has not repaid any
amount. The allegation against the applicant Shiv Kumar Tiwari is of
him being a director of the company on whose instructions entire fraud
and misappropriation has been committed. The allegation against
applicants Jaychandra Jha and Jiwan are of them having duped the
investors and having convinced them to invest different amount in the
company which has not been returned to the investors. On the basis of
aforesaid allegations the present applicants have been implicated and
arrested for the present offence. 7. Learned senior counsel for the applicant Shiv Kumar Tiwari
submits that applicant is innocent and has falsely been implicated in
the present case. He was not named in the initial complaint having
been made by complainant Bhagwan. He is alleged to be the director
of the company only and there is no allegation of any amount having
been paid to him directly by any of the investors. There is no
allegation that any of the complainant ever dealt with him directly.
Merely for the reason that he is a director of the company he could not
have been implicated in the present offence. No recovery of any
amount had been made from him. Only material available against him
is his own memorandums recorded under Section 27 of the India
Evidence Act dated 10/09/2021 and 17/09/2021 which are by itself not
admissible in evidence. On the basis of said memorandums there has
not been any recovery of any facts to make those memorandums
legally admissible in evidence. Investigation has been completed and
challan has been filed and applicant has remained in jail since
12/04/2021 hence deserves to be enlarged on bail. 8. In support of his contention learned senior counsel has relied
upon the decisions of Hon'ble Apex Court in the matter of SMS
Pharmaceutical Ltd. vs. Neeta Bhalla and another AIR 2005 SC
3512 and in the matter of Digambar Vaishnav and another vs. State 4 of Chhattisgarh AIR 2019 SC 1367 to contend that merely because
the applicant is director of the company he cannot be implicated by
invoking the theory of vicarious liability against him. As no recovery
has been made on the basis of his memorandums recorded under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act they are wholly inadmissible
against him. 9. Learned counsel for the applicants Jaychandra Jha and Jiwan
have submitted that these applicants were not the directors of the
company but were only branch managers of the same. They were
themselves employees of the company and had been so employed on
monthly remuneration. There is no allegation against these applicants
of them having misappropriated the funds received from the investors.
No amount of such investment has been credited in their bank
accounts. The only amounts credited are the salary paid to them by the
company which are very small. Only for the reason that the company /
director has not repaid the amount to the investors, they cannot be
blamed for the same. Even in the complaints made by the
complainants no prayer was made for initiating any action against
these applicants by contending that they duped them in any manner. It
is hence submitted that in view of the allegations levelled against
them, they deserves to be released on bail particularly investigation has
been completed and charge-sheet has been filed and they remained in
jail since 10/09/2021. 10. The learned counsel for the State has opposed the prayer and has
submitted that on the basis of complaint made by the complainant
detailed investigation has been made in which it has been found that
the applicants in connivance with other persons have duped about 46
investors through various policies to the turn of Rs.27,00,000/- and
have not returned the amount to the investors as promised. The
applicant Shiv Kumar is the director of the company and has been
continuing to run the company even after expiry of its registration. The
other applicants also actively participated with him and duped the
investors to invest with the company despite knowing the fact that the 5 said amount would not be eventually returned to them. It is hence
submitted that in view of the allegations levelled against the applicants
and the material collected by the prosecution against them the
applicants do not deserve to be released on bail. 11. Learned counsel for the objectors have submitted that applicants
alongwith other persons are a group of 8-10 people who have been
involved in duping the general public by encouraging them to invest in
various companies with full intention of not returning their money.
Earlier also these persons had formed various companies in different
names and all of them being directors of the company had been
carrying on such activities. Cases have been registered against the
applicants and others at various police stations for running different
such companies and all those companies have been closed by
committing similar kind of fraud and misappropriation. It is hence
submitted that in view of the allegations levelled against the applicants
and the material collected by the prosecution they do not deserve to be
enlarged on bail; as there would be every likelihood of them
influencing the present investigation as well as other investigations
being conducted against them for various other similar offences. 12. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties and have
perused the case-diary as well as documents brought on record by
them. 13. The applicant Shiv Kumar Tiwari has been shown to be the
director of Swaraj India Real Estate Company. The registration of said
company has expired in the year 2015 yet the company has been run
thereafter and has been receiving investments from the general public
and has not returned the same to them as promised and has committed
fraud and misappropriation of the said amount. Earlier also various
companies were registered and applicant Shiv Kumar Tiwari and
others were shown as directors of those companies. Thus, it appears
that this applicant has been carrying on such activities since a long
time. 14. Admittedly no amount has been returned by the company to the 6 investors till now. Thus looking to the role of this applicant and
seriousness of the allegations levelled against them, I do not deem it
appropriate to grant bail to the applicant Shiv Kumar Tiwari. 15. The judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the matter SMS
Pharmaceutical Ltd. (Supra) and Digambar Vaishnav and another (Supra) are not applicable in the present case as that was a case of
offence registered under Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act
and besides the memorandum under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence
Act there is other material also available on record against the
applicant Shiv Kumar Tiwari. 16. So far as applicants Jaychand Jha and Jiwan are concerned it is
seen that they are alleged only to be the Mangers of the company.
There is no allegation against them that they made any dishonest
representation to the investors and cheated them. It appears that they
were working as Managers in the company on salaried basis and have
been receiving salary from the company. There is no material to show
that any amount of money received from investors by them has been
credited in their account. Thus looking to the allegations levelled
against them and the material collected by the prosecution, I deem it fit
to enlarge the applicants Jaychandra Jha and Jiwan on bail.
Consequently, application of applicant Shiv Kumar Tiwari is hereby
rejected and applications of the applicant Jaychandra Jha and Jiwan
are hereby allowed. 17. The applicants Jaychandra Jha and Jiwan are directed to be
released on bail upon furnishing a personal bond in the sum of
Rs.50,000/- each (Rupees Fifty Thousand each) with one solvent
surety each of the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial Court for
their regular appearance before the trial Court during trial with a
condition that they shall remain present before the Court concerned
during trial and shall also abide by the conditions enumerated under Section 437 (3) Criminal Procedure Code, 1973. 18. It is also observed that if these applicants are found in any of the
criminal activities, after their release on bail, then the present bail 7 order shall stand cancelled without further reference to this Court; and
the State / prosecution will be free to arrest the accused in the present
case also. 19. This order shall be effective till the end of the trial, however, in
case of bail jump, it shall become ineffective. Certified copy as per rules.