Heard the learned advocates appearing for the parties.
 Assailing the interim order dated 17th April, 2012 passed by the learned
trial Judge in W.P. 6863 (W) of 2012, this appeal has been preferred. The stay application has been moved today in connection with this
appeal. Having regard to the tenor of the order impugned and having regard to
the question of maintainability of the writ application, which we have heard at
length, we are of the view that appeal and stay application and concerned writ
application could be disposed of by us by a common judgment. Writ application accordingly is taken by us by exercising our appellate
jurisdiction. From the writ application and the stay application filed by the writ
petitioner in connection with the writ and the appeal it appears that assailing the
initiation of a proceeding under Section 35 of the West Bengal Co-operative 2 Societies Act, 2006, writ application was moved. Section 35 of the said Act reads
such: On a bare reading of said Section it appears that under sub-section (1) of
Section 35, State Government is empowered to initiate a proceeding for
dissolution of any Co-operative Society including any Co-operative Bank upon
giving proper show-cause notice and hearing and thereafter by issuing a 3 notification assigning the reasons for such dissolution subject to prior
consultation with the Reserve Bank of India for dissolution of any Co-operative
Bank or the Central Co-operative Land Development Bank or other Banks, which
are controlled and covered by Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 . From the show-cause notice as annexed at page 92 of the stay application
it appears that allegations of financial default and other irregularities have been
mentioned in details. The show-cause notice as issued reads such: Regarding complaint No:- 1 the R.C.S., W.B. has observed to the following effect- 1) At least one loan case, in the name of Malabika Ghosh, appears fake. No resolution
 sanctioning this loan was found. 2) Documents and securities in most of the cases appear to be inadequate and
 improperly filed in. 3) Shri Sukanta Mukherjee was allowed to draw and utilize these loans for some other
 business. The loans were not utilized for the purpose for which those were
 sanctioned. 4) Shri Gobinda Roy became Chairman of the Board on 19.09.2006. Loan to Shri Hari
 Kumar Das and Timex Hardware were sanctioned in the year 2009 when Shri 4 Gobinda Roy was the Chairman of the Board. The loans were sanctioned in the
 Board meeting and not by the Chairman himself. Hence the responsibility of
 sanctioning such irregular loan lies with the entire Board which was functioning at
 that time. 5) Bank should immediately identify employees involved in the irregular activities and
 start disciplinary proceedings against them. 6) FIR should be lodged against Shri Sukanta Mukherjee for defrauding the Bank, in
 consultation with a criminal lawyer, immediately. Complaint No:-2

 "Shri Sukanta Mukherjee was earlier favoured with a loan of Rs. 50.00 lac for
construction of a commercial complex at 1, Vidyasagar Road, Siliguri. The Bank
purchased one flat in that complex. The purchase cost of Rs. 73.50 lac was adjusted
with the fake loans mentioned above and the loan against the commercial complex
remained unpaid." Regarding Complaint No:-2 the R.C.S., W.B. has observed to the following effect- 1) The decision of I & L Committee (Investment and loan Committee) of the Bank dated
 24.09.2005 sanctioning cash credit loan for construction of a building i.e., a fixed
 asset, is in violation of normal banking procedure. 2) The decision of the I & L Committee of the Bank dated 24.09.2005 sanctioning cash
 credit loan on the land already mortgaged to Bank is highly irregular. 3) Proceeds of the sale of flat to the Bank by Shri Mukherjee were adjusted with a few
 loans as mentioned in the complaint. 4) The present BOD was elected on 26.12.2009 and all these things happened before
 the present BOD took charge. 5) Shri Gobinda Roy, the Chairman of the present Board was Chairman of the previous
 Board also. Complaint No:-3

 "A fraud of Rs.350 lac was detected to be done by Shri Mukherjee in Siliguri
Branch of the Bank. On 15/11/08 an inspection team was formed by the Board of the
Bank. But the report of the inspection team was never placed in the Board. A lawyer
entrusted by the Chairman, gave his opinion in this matter (which was placed before the
Board), that the incident was clear fraud. It appears that Board suspended the Branch
Manager of the Bank, who was involved in the fraud, but no action was initiated against
Shri Mukherjee. Surprisingly, the Bank sanctioned a loan of Rs. 55.00 lac to Xecinta
Petronet, where said Shri Mukherjee is the sole proprietor, without any security. The
loan was renewed in regular intervals." Regarding Compalint No:-3 the R.C.S., W.B. has observed to the following effect- 1) The matter of fraud including the action taken against the responsible employees
 was discussed several times in the BOD. 2) Bank initiated action against Shri Sukanta Mukherjee for commissioning of fraud
 with the Bank and also initiated legal measures for recovery of the amount. However,
 the process is already much delayed and the Bank should take all necessary legal
 measures to ensure recovery of the amount immediately. 3) Cash Credit loan limit to Xecinta Petronet was enhanced to Rs. 25.00 lac on
 30.03.2009 when the loan account was already overdue. It can be concluded that as
 because, the loan was shown in D-2 category in the NPA Statement as on
 30.03.2011, this implies that the loan was overdue for at least 4 years i.e. the loan 5 became overdue latest by 31.03.2008. This was done during the latest part of the
 tenure of the last Board. After that it has never been enhanced or renewed. Complaint No:-4

 "The amount involved in the fraud by said Shri Mukherjee has been shown as loan
to Shri Muklherjee by the Bank, although no such loan was sanctioned by the Board of
the Bank." Regarding Complaint No:-4 the R.C.S., W.B. has observed to the following effect- 1) The amount of fraud in the cash credit account of Shri Sukanta Mukherjee was
 shown as loan. Complaint No:-5

 "In a number of Government sponsored Schematic lending, the loan component
(carrying an interest rate of 13.75%) has been kept as fixed deposit (carrying an interest
rate of 8.25%) in the Bank and only the subsidy component was disbursed to the
beneficiaries. The Bank has lost 5.5% interest in all these cases and the total loss of the
bank was to the tune of Rs. 2.00 crore. This loss was caused with the intention of
personal gain by the Chairman. The projects could not take off." Regarding Complaint No:-5 the R.C.S., W.B. has observed to the following effect- 1) No instance was found where the subsidy amount alone was physically disbursed
 and the loan amount was kept as fixed deposit in the Bank. 2) In all these cases under Government Scheme the beneficiaries were selected by the
 concerned sponsoring agency and not by the Board or Chairman of the Bank. 3) Recovery in these cases is not satisfactory. Often the projects could not take off due
 to various reasons. Monitoring of these loan cases and these projects at the Bank
 level is almost absent. Respective sponsoring authority cannot evade their
 responsibility in this matter. Complaint No:-6

 "Engineers' and Labour Co-operative Societies were allowed loans against
Government Work Order. The cheques deposited by the Engineers' and Labour Co-
operatives into their account were allowed to be withdrawn, despite outstanding
balances in their loan accounts. This has resulted in Rs. 20.00 crore NPA in such loan
accounts. This was done in violation of the BOD resolution dated 25.05.2004 and Office
Order No. 706/J dated 14.06.2004." Regarding Complaint NO:-6 the R.C.S., W.B. has observed to the following effect- 1) No instance was found where cheques deposited by the Engineers' and Labour Co-
 operatives into their account were allowed to be withdrawn, despite outstanding
 balances in their loan accounts, excepting one. So this appeared to be not a practice
 of the Bank. 2) The policy adopted by the Board as per its resolution dated 25.05.2004 was genrally
 followed. Complaint No:-7

 "Proprietor of Balaji Automobiles, Siliguri, Shri Surajit Saha, outstanding Principal
and interest taken together was Rs. 47.00 lac. He was allowed one time settlement of his 6 account after payment of Rs. 26.00 lac only. Said Shri Saha as proprietor of Shalimar
 Enterprises was granted a loan of Rs. 150.00 lac against the security of Rs. 25 lac and a
 piece of land measuring 0.33 decimal, valued at Rs. 2.12 lac approximately. Later a
 valuation report of the same land was submitted where the valuation was mentioned as
 Rs. 80.00 lac." Regarding Complaint No:-7 the R.C.S., W.B. has observed to the following effect- 1) Interest relief extended to Balaji automobiles and in other loan accounts were highly
 irregular. 2) The loan to Shalimar Enterprise was sanctioned much earlier that the OTS in the
 account of the Balaji Automobiles. Its limit was enhanced from time to time on the
 basis of the value of the Work Order issued by the competent authority and placed
 by the borrower to the Bank. The loan was not covered under security as desired in
 the sanction letter. The value of the landed property offered as collateral security
 should also be verified immediately. However, the transaction of the borrower in the
 loan account is regular. On receipt of the said report from the Registrar of Co-operative Societies, West
 Bengal, the State Government is of the opinion that the Board of Directors of the
 Jalpaiguri C.C.B. Ltd:- operative bank. You are, therefore, requested to state your objections, if any, to what have been
 stated hereinbefore and to show cause as why the Board shall not be dissolved. Your objections, if any, should reach this end as early as possible preferably within
 a period of fifteen days from the date of receipt of this show cause notice failing which, it
 shall be presumed that you do not have objection to the proposed dissolution of the
 Board. You are also requested to appear for hearing of your objections, if any, on 19th
 March, at 2.00 p.m. in the office-chamber of the Secretary of this Department. Please take note that you are at liberty to take inspection of the documents which
 have been relied upon by the State Government in forming such opinion as stated
 hereinbefore prior to stating objections or hearing upon prior intimation to the State
 Government in the Co-operation Department. With thanks,
 Yours faithfully,
 Sd/- Joint Secretary to the
 Government of West Bengal." A reply of this show-cause was filed by the present writ
petitioners/appellants, which is annexed at page 97, which reads such: Sub: Reply to the show-cause notice under Section 35(1) of the WBCS Act, 2006.
Ref: Your Memo. No. 684-Co-op/D/3P-15/99 dated Kolkata, the 1st March, 2012

Sir,

 Kindly refer to the above-cited unsigned show-cause notice where-under, you have
asked to state objections, if any, to what have been stated therein and to show cause as
to why the Board of the Jalpaiguri Central Co-operative Bank Ltd. Shall not be
dissolved. For your kind information, the present Board took charge of the Bank duly elected
democratically by the members of the Society on 26/12/2009. From the very inception,
all efforts of the Board were directed towards boosting up the morale of the employees
and guiding the bank out of the financial stress, which the bank was facing at that time.
Bank has extended its business and income generation has become almost three-fold.
At times, the Board has to alter its way of functioning in order to cope up with modern
challenges of banking by implementing computerized systems. The Board has introduce
several schemes of deposits and lending to cater grassroots level of the poor farmers,
artisans and entrepreneurs of the district. The Board has to struggle often for recovery
of old overdue loans. The Board has always tried its best to regularize such loans by
persuasion and/or knocking doors of law. All the members of the Board are very much
open to any lawful inspection and/or enquiry. We believe that inspection/inquiry
reports act as mirror and guide the management to manage the affairs with prudence.
Thus we always welcome constructive inspection/inquiry reports. In the present case, the inspection was conducted by two officers of the Apex Bank
under the instruction of the Managing Director of the West Bengal State Co-operative
Bank Ltd., u/s 99(2) of the West Bengal Co-operative Societies Act, 2006 . In the order of
the MD, WBSCB Ltd. Vide No. HO/MD/72/1633 dated 25/07/11, causing the
inspection, it was stated that the RCS, West Bengal, under memo no. 5019/I-390/46
dated 07/07/11 requested the MD, WBSCB Ltd. To cause an inquiry into the complaint
alleged to have been lodged by three Board members of our Bank through Sri
Debaprasad Roy, Member, Legislative Assembly, Alipurduar and complaints of two
persons, said to be the members of Nityanandanagar SKUS Ltd. and Baruapara SKUS
ltd., through Sri Sukhbilas Barma, Member, Legislative Assembly, Jalpaiguri. The MD, WBSCB Ltd., was pleased to submit the inspection report of 2 officers of
The West Bengal State Co-operative Bank Ltd. to the RCS, West Bengal, copy of which
was forwarded information to the Chief Executive Officer of The Jalpaiguri Central Co-
operative Bank Ltd. along with copy of the inspection report. The inspection report itself
ruled out several fake complaints that framed with malafide intentions. The inspection
report was vividly discussed in the Board Meeting dated 17/09/2011, wherein Chief
Executive Officer was authorised to prepare a compliance, if necessary and when the
same is asked for from the department concerned. The Chief Executive Officer is also
authorized to initiate proper action against the alleged employees whose names has
been mentioned in the inspection report (extract of BOD meeting dated 17/09/11 is
enclosed). Such report might be forwarded to the authority under Law, if asked for. Further, for your information, the alleged complainants (three directors) have
submitted written statements before the inspecting officers to the effect that fake
allegations have been submitted by using their names and some unknown persons are
behind the screen with motivated interests. In respect of other complainants (of
Nityanandanagar SKUS Ltd. & Baruapara SKUS Ltd.) written communications have
been received by the inspecting officers from the societies to the effect that such persons 8 do not exist at all in the member list of the societies. In the course, fabricated allegations
have been forwarded through Hon'ble Members of Legislative Assembly (Jalpaiguri &
Alipurduar) shattering their credibility as well. Furthermore, with much humbleness, we would like to put on record some
anomalies observed by the Board of this bank in the process of inspection and the show-
cause thereafter, which are as follows: operative Societies Act 2006 instead of an inquiry as contemplated u/s 100 of the
 Act. c) The management of the bank and its officers had extended full co-operation to the
 inspecting Team in course of their inspection. d) The MD, WBSCB Ltd., apparently submitted the inspection report signed on
 30.08.2011 prepared by the said two officers of the West Bengal State Co-operative
 Bank Ltd. to the RCS, West Bengal, a copy of which was forwarded for information to
 the Chief Executive Officer of our Bank. In your above referred memo, you have
 stated that the memo was issued considering the inquiry report caused by the RCS,
 West Bengal. But we humbly state that the Registrar of Co-operative Societies, West
 Bengal did not hold any inquiry, either by himself or by any person authorized by
 him, into the complaints regarding the affairs of the bank, nor any such report was
 ever communicated by his office to our Bank at any material point of time and in
 fact, the alleged complaints and the observations of the RCS in your unsigned memo
 are merely quoted from the aforesaid inspection report prepared by the said two
 officers of the apex Bank and the observations of the RCS are nothing but the
 verbatim reproduction of the conclusions recorded by the said two officers. e) Any opinion required to be formed u/s 35(1) of the West Bengal Co-operative
 Societies Act 2006, has not been obviously done, as the defaults and acts of
 omission and commission pointed out in your memo are prima facie. So, it is felt
 that, statutory requirement has not been fulfilled. Formation of opinion is sine qua-
 non for any steps u/s 35 of the Act. f) It has also been noted that legal necessity of prior consultation with Reserve Bank of
 India as mandated by the Legislature under the first proviso to Sec. 35(1)(b) of the
 West Bengal Co-operative Societies Act, 2006 is lacking in the instant case. g) Sec. 2(2) of the Act also debars any interference into the affairs of the bank. h) Further, in view of the Chapter XIIIA of the Act , our bank is recognized as a Co-
 operative Credit Structure Entity and is enjoying special statutory protection as
 regards its autonomy in all financial and internal administrative matters. i) Your kind attention is also drawn towards latest amendment of the Constitution of
 India assented to by the President on 12th January, 2012, wherein, a new Article
 43B has been introduced and made part of our Constitution obligating the State to
 promote autonomous functioning and democratic control of co-operative societies. Article 243ZI is also introduced for democratic and autonomous management of the
 co-operative societies. In view of what has been state above, we feel that, lawfully any steps towards
 dissolution of the Board of the Jalpaiguri Central Co-operative Bank Ltd. cannot be
 taken on the basis of presumptions, fake allegations or extraneous considerations.
 Thus we call upon you to relieve the undersigned from the allegations made in memo
 under reference and refrain from dissolution of the Board of The Jalpaiguri Central Co-
 operative Bank ltd. Else, the Bank will have no other alternative but to resort to the
 Court of Law for safeguarding its legal and constitutional rights.
 We hope your good office will accept the submissions stated herein with much
 consideration and extend co-operation to this Board in advancing Co-operative
 Movement in the District with your advice and invaluable suggestions.
 I also assure you that I will attend the hearing on 19th March, 2012 on due tome to
 raise the objections in the same line. Thanking you,
 Yours faithfully,
 Sd/- (GOBINDA ROY)
 Chairman
 The Jalpaiguri Central Co-operative Bank Ltd." In the reply, a point has been taken that show-cause notice was not
maintainable as there was no prior consultation with the Reserve Bank of India
in terms of the proviso of Section 35 sub-section (1) of the said Act. The
constitutional point also has been taken by asserting the fact that in the
democratic and autonomous management of any Co-operative Society the
Government should not interfere. Learned trial Judge refused to stay the proceeding initiated under Section
35 of the said Act, but passed an order that any steps would abide by the result
of the writ application. The writ petitioners being aggrieved by the said order has
preferred this appeal. The impugned order reads such: Mr. Ray, learned senior advocate, appearing for the writ
petitioners/appellants has vehemently submitted that without consultation with
the Reserve Bank of India there was no scope even to issue any show-cause
notice without prior consultation under Section 35 sub-section (1) of the said Act.
Mr. Ray further has referred to Chapter XIIIA of the said Act and the provisions
incorporated by West Bengal Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 2010. It is contended that the present appellants/Bank is a Co-operative Credit
Structure Entity under definition of Section 134B of said Act and as such, is
entitled to have protection of Clause (a) of Sub-section (11) of Section 134C of the
said Act. Clause (a) sub-section (11) of Section 134C reads such: It is submitted that on false allegation, which is outcome of mala fide
action of some fictitious persons, the State Government initiated a move by
holding an inspection through Registrar, Co-operative Society for the purpose of
dissolving the present board of the appellant/bank. It is contended that initially
State Government directed to hold an enquiry on the allegations as reported to
the State Government by the apex bank but the apex bank, namely, West Bengal
State Co-operative Bank Limited, without making an enquiry held an inspection
under Section 99 of the said Act and submitted a report. It is basic attack
regarding initiation of proceeding that when the statute has given a protection to
such type of banks by incorporating provision of prior consultation with the
Reserve Bank of India in proviso of Section 35 sub-section (1) and prior approval
in case of supersession of the board under Section 134C , there was no scope to
issue any show-cause notice without prior consultation of the Reserve Bank of
India under proviso of sub-section (1) of Section 35 and without prior approval of 11 Reserve Bank of India under clause (a) sub-section (11) of Section 134C of the
said Act. We are afraid to accept such argument. In the event it is accepted that
it will be nothing but to put the cart before the horse. On interpretation of Section 35 sub-section (1) we are of the view that on
the basis of report from the Registrar, State Government if holds an opinion that
any board has persistently made defaults or has been grossly negligent on the
performance of the duties under this Act or the rules or the by-laws or has
committed any act prejudicial to the interest of the concerned co-operative
society or the members of any other co-operative society or has willfully
disobeyed and willfully failed to comply with the lawful order or direction of the
State Government or the Registrar or the affairs of business of any co-operative
society has come to a stalemate due to persistent default or negligence in the
performance of duties by its board, after service of a notice upon the board and
giving opportunity of hearing and by issuing a notification, may dissolve the
board. The proviso of sub-section (1) of Section 35 provides that the Board of
Directors of the banks covered under Chapter V of the Banking Regulation Act,
1949 should not be dissolved without prior consultation of the Reserve Bank of
India. There is no ambiguity in the language in sub-section (1) of Section 35 of
the said Act including its proviso. As per our reading and understanding, we are
of the view that proviso of sub-section (1) of Section 35 would be attracted to
adjudicate allegations of default and other negligence to duty as stated thereof in
the said Section and if allegations are proved then prior to dissolution of board,
there will be necessity of consultation with the Reserve Bank of India. Section 35 sub-section (1) and its proviso are covering the field of a
decision making process on analyzing the factual matrix of allegations on the
basis of reply as to be made by the Board of Directors of the concerned bank and
there is no scope of prior consultation with Reserve Bank of India till there is
prima facie opinion of the adjudicator, i.e., the State Government that it is a fit
case for dissolution of board of the concerned bank on the basis of the proved
allegations. Hence so long there is a stage of show-cause notice, reply and hearing for
adjudication of allegations stated in show-cause notice, the consultation
provision could not be applied. The consultation chapter with Reserve Bank of
India would be necessary prior to passing of any actual order of dissolution of the
Board of Directors of the bank and there is no necessity of consultation prior to
issuance of a show-cause notice asking Board of Directors to reply against the
allegations as made thereof. Similarly in the case of supersession of Board of Directors in terms of Section 134C sub-section (11) clause (a) when the actual order of supersession to
be passed prior approval of the same would be necessary. Whether the Board of
Directors of the concerned co-operative banks covered under the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949 , could be dissolved or whether the Board should be
superseded, depends upon adjudication of allegation of default or negligent,
which to be faced by the Board of Directors and prior to finality of such
adjudication of allegations, which is within the domain of factual matrix, there is
no scope for seeking any approval to dissolve or supersede the bank. The
authority concerned under the statute is competent to initiate a proceeding
under Section 35 of said Act to maintain democratic rights of the members of the
co-operative society and to protect the constitutional rights of members, which
are the basic ingredients of forming a co-operative bank and to protect their
interest so that the bank's money is not utilized illegally. The legislatures at their
wisdom has provided a protective umbrella in the form of adjudication of
allegations of default or negligence by initiation of a proceeding under Section 35 sub-section (1) of the said Act. So long the allegations are not proved by giving an opportunity of show-
cause and hearing the Board of Directors, there is no question of taking further
steps of dissolving the Board of Directors or superseding the Board of Directors
and when such situation will arise only then, the question of approval of the
Reserve Bank of India or consultation with the Reserve Bank of India would be
necessary. Hence, the writ application as moved by the writ
petitioners/appellants was premature to throttle the adjudicatory process to 13 identify their default or negligence on the basis of the allegations made in the
 show-cause notice by initiation of a proceeding under Section 35 sub-section (1)
 of the said Act. In view of such legal position, we are of the view that writ application was
 not maintainable. The writ petitioners/appellants have already submitted a reply
 on the legal points only. Mr. Ray, learned advocate for the appellants, prays leave
 of this Court to submit a proper reply on factual points of allegations made in the
 show-cause notice. Having regard to the prayer made, leave is granted to file an additional
 reply with reference to the show-cause notice within two weeks from this date. In view of the position as discussed, hence, writ application is not
 maintainable and writ application, appeal and the stay application all stand
 dismissed. Affidavit of service as filed in Court today be kept with the record. (Pratap Kumar Ray,J.)

 I agree,
ab
 (Subal Baidya,J.)