1. For the commission of offence punishable under Sections

 318(4), 61(2) and 336(3) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023, hereinafter

 being referred to as "BNS" only and Sections 66(C) and 66(D) of the

 Information Technology Act, 2000 [ Section 66 of IT Act and Sections 238 of

 BNS added later on], the FIR No. 02 dated 11.02.2025 has been lodged in

 Police Station State Cyber Crime, Phase-4, Punjab, District S.A.S. Nagar,

 Punjab. 2. This is second petition for bail, filed by the petitioner, under

 Section 483 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, hereinafter

 being referred to as "BNSS" only. 3. Briefly stating the facts emerging from the record are that the DEEPAK KUMAR BHARDWAJ 2025.11.14 19:37 FIR of this case came into being in response to a complaint submitted by I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document Criminal Misc. No. M-51578 of 2025 2 Chief Engineer, Department of Mining and Geology, Government of Punjab.

 In his above mentioned complaint, it was mentioned by the complainant that

 through fake and illegal website namely https:minesandgeology.punjab.in, a

 false representation had been made, that the above mentioned website is

 official website of their organization and that unsuspected individuals who

 used that website had been defrauded. As per complainant, the above

 mentioned fake website looks alike the legitimate website but it was being

 operated by illegal person and that initial investigation had revealed that:- 4. It is the case of the prosecution that in response to the above

 mentioned information a formal FIR of this case was lodged and the

 investigation taken up. As per prosecution during the course of investigation,

 the petitioner was arrested on 28.02.2025. 5. It has been contended on behalf of the petitioner that he has DEEPAK KUMAR BHARDWAJ 2025.11.14 19:37 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document Criminal Misc. No. M-51578 of 2025 3 been falsely implicated in the present case, and that in fact, the petitioner

 was working as an employee with a private contractor, and he had no

 connection with Government Department nor having any involvement in

 access to any IT infrastructure web hosting system or digital administration.

 According to learned counsel for the petitioner, the mobile of the petitioner,

 which was allegedly linked for the registration of alleged domain, had been

 misused without his knowledge or consent, most likely by a department

 worker or third party. 6. The learned counsel for the petitioner has claimed that there is

 no direct financial transaction or gain of any kind to the petitioner from the

 alleged website, and that the Bank record/account statement duly produced

 before the Investigating Officer makes it clear that petitioner had not

 received any monetary benefit from the alleged scam. It has also been

 contended by learned counsel for the petitioner that in the final report

 submitted by the police, there is no call record, exchange of message or

 electronic correspondence showing any link of the petitioner with the actual

 accused. 7. According to learned counsel for the petitioner, there is no

 evidence either direct or circumstantial to associate that the IP address used,

 was linked with the petitioner's device, location of network and that the

 laptop and mobile phone have already been recovered by the investigating

 agency and from those devices also nothing relevant has been found. While

 alleging that the benefit of bail has already been afforded to the co-accused

 Aakash Singh, against whom there were allegations of developing the

 website, the learned counsel for the petitioner has sought the benefit of bail DEEPAK KUMAR BHARDWAJ 2025.11.14 19:37 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document Criminal Misc. No. M-51578 of 2025 4 for the petitioner. 8. Per contra, the learned State counsel has argued that in the

 present case there are various specific and direct allegations with regard to

 usage of mobile number of the petitioner for the development of the website,

 which was misused for the purpose of defrauding the users, who wanted to

 use government website. 9. According to learned State counsel, without the use of mobile

 number of petitioner there was no possibility of developing and use of

 website and that without active support of the petitioner it was not possible

 that the website could have been used. As per learned State counsel to

 develop the illegal website the entire details must have been received by the

 petitioner, who shared the same with the developer of website. While

 alleging that a big scam has taken place due to development of fake website,

 the learned State counsel has sought the dismissal of instant bail petition. 10. The record has been perused carefully. 11. A careful perusal of the record shows that in the present case

 there are several factors which are required to be taken into consideration for

 the decision of instant bail petition. They are:- 12. With regard to the legal aspect involved in the instant case, it is

 relevant to mention that the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of " Dataram

 versus State of Uttar Pradesh and another ", 2018(2) R.C.R. (Criminal)

 131, has observed that "a fundamental postulate of criminal jurisprudence is

 the presumption of innocence, meaning thereby that a person is believed to

 be innocent until found guilty. However, there are instances in our criminal

 law where a reverse onus has been placed on an accused with regard to

 some specific offences but that is another matter and does not detract from

 the fundamental postulate in respect of other offences. Yet another important DEEPAK KUMAR BHARDWAJ 2025.11.14 19:37 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document Criminal Misc. No. M-51578 of 2025 6 facet of our criminal jurisprudence is that the grant of bail is the general

 rule and putting a person in jail or in a prison or in a correction home

 (whichever expression one may wish to use) is an exception. Unfortunately,

 some of these basic principles appear to have been lost sight of with the re-

 sult that more and more persons are being incarcerated and for longer peri-

 ods. This does not do any good to our criminal jurisprudence or to our soci-

 ety. There is no doubt that the grant or denial of bail is entirely the discre-

 tion of the judge considering a case but even so, the exercise of judicial dis-

 cretion has been circumscribed by a large number of decisions rendered by

 this Court and by every High Court in the country. Yet, occasionally there is

 a necessity to introspect whether denying bail to an accused person is the

 right thing to do on the facts and in the circumstances of a case". 13. The principles laid down by the Hon'ble the Supreme Court of

 India in the case of 'Satender Kumar Antil Vs. Central Bureau of Investi- gation and Another', 2022 LiveLaw (SC) 577, are also relevant in this case.

 In the abovementioned case, it has been observed that "the rate of conviction

 in criminal cases in India is abysmally low. It appears to us that this factor

 weighs on the mind of the Court while deciding the bail applications in a

 negative sense. Courts tend to think that the possibility of a conviction being

 nearer to rarity, bail applications will have to be decided strictly, contrary to

 legal principles. We cannot mix up consideration of a bail application,

 which is not punitive in nature with that of a possible adjudication by way of

 trial. On the contrary, an ultimate acquittal with continued custody would be

 a case of grave injustice". 14. Therefore, to elucidate further, this Court is conscious of the DEEPAK KUMAR BHARDWAJ 2025.11.14 19:37 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document Criminal Misc. No. M-51578 of 2025 7 basic and fundamental principle of law that right to speedy trial is a part of

 reasonable, fair and just procedure enshrined under Article 21 of the

 Constitution of India. This constitutional right cannot be denied to the

 accused as mandated by Hon'ble Apex court in " Balwinder Singh versus

 State of Punjab and Another ", SLP (Crl.) No.8523/2024. 15. Taking into consideration the cumulative effect of all the

 aforesaid factors, it is hereby held that the petitioner is entitled for

 concession of bail, and that the present petition deserves to be allowed. 16. In view of above mentioned observations the present petition is

 hereby allowed accordingly, and the petitioner is admitted to bail subject to

 his furnishing personal bond and surety bond(s) to the satisfaction of learned

 trial Court. 17. It is, however, made clear that any observation made here-in-

 above is only for the purpose of deciding the present petition, and the same

 shall have no bearing on the merits of the case. (Surya Partap Singh)
 Judge
 November 14, 2025
 "DK"