(per Hon'ble Sri Justice Ravi Nath Tilhari)

 Heard Sri Balaji Medamalli, learned counsel for the Appellant/2nd

Defendant and Sri O. Manohar Reddy, learned senior counsel, assisted by Sri

Satya Sai Krishna Sistla, learned counsel for the Respondents. I. Facts: 4. The suit was filed against the defendants therein being the present

appellant and the present respondents No.4 and 5. II. Plaintiffs' case: 5. The plaintiffs' case inter alia was that the 3rd plaintiff was the father of

the 1st plaintiff. Originally, grandfather of the 1st plaintiff, namely, P.

Purnachandrarao joined his brother-in-law in his coffee café business in Madras

city in or about 1978-79, carried on under the name and style of "Madras Filter

Coffee", though he initially started his coffee café in a frugal manner, over a

period of time, considering the local conditions and cues, he made remarkable
 RNT, J & CGR, J 6 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 change and development in the business including the product range and to

cater such needs, the 3rd plaintiff was made to assist his father and due to their

hard work, it ultimately became a main source of income to them. After the

death of P. Purnachandrarao, the 3rd plaintiff succeeded to the said business by

virtue of the last Will of his grandfather dated 01.05.1987. The 3rd plaintiff

continued the said coffee café and by his efforts it earned goodwill, name and

fame. Over a period of time, the 1st plaintiff joined the business of the 3rd

plaintiff and in view of love and affection, the 3rd plaintiff permitted the 1st

plaintiff to take over such business, assigning such business, its trade

name/mark and goodwill way back in the year 2008. The 1st plaintiff in order to

expand the business, started giving licence to third parties, in Tamil Nadu and

the then composite State of Andhra Pradesh for running the coffee cafes,

bakery and restaurants under the name of "Madras Filter Coffee". The

franchise agreement dated 27.03.2009 allotted to one V. Sakthivel,

S/o.Viswanathan for Adambakkam area of Chennai was one of such franchise

agreements granted by the 1st plaintiff as the proprietor thereof. Due to the

change of government policies in Andhra Pradesh in past few years, there was

a drawback in the business of plaintiffs No.1 and 3, and also due to lack of

operational control and strict periodical checks, the persons in whose favour the

3rd plaintiff had granted franchise agreements, misused the trust reposed in

them and avoided to make payments to the plaintiffs No.1 and 3. The plaintiffs

started business in their own names. The plaintiffs took decision to start their

coffee café business operations in and around Andhra Pradesh and Telangana
 RNT, J & CGR, J 7 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 States in a very grand scale plugging the loopholes in their erstwhile business

houses and investing huge amounts. They started putting in efforts to

introduce and use technology. They made an in depth study to identify

different places and locations suitable for establishment of such business

houses. The 1st plaintiff started collecting lot of information pertaining to the

different sites available and viable for such business. The 1st plaintiff got

prepared number of designs spending lot of amounts to give an innovative and

attractive shapes to the coffee shops kiosks and outlets, shops proposed to be

opened by him in different places depending upon the sizes of the available

places. 6. It was the further case of plaintiffs that when the 1st plaintiff was

struggling to commence such unique business, the 1st defendant got

acquaintance with 1st plaintiff at Vijayawada Club. During casual conversations,

between them, the 1st defendant expressed his interest and requested the 1st

plaintiff to give him an opportunity to work with the 1st plaintiff in the proposed

business, pretending that he would put all his energies and strive for the mutual

benefit, if he was permitted to join the proposed business. Thus, the 1st

defendant got acquainted with the scope of such business and profit earning

chances. The 1st defendant also enquired the 1st plaintiff to understand the

effects of similar businesses being run by the competitors or that may be

established by others, with special reference to the profit margins. The

plaintiffs' further case was that while expressing his desire to join the 1st

plaintiff in his proposed business, the 1st defendant secretly involved in the
 RNT, J & CGR, J 8 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 coffee business being run in a couple of coffee kiosks, under the name and

style of "Kumbakonam Degree Coffee", in the similar lines in which the 1st

plaintiff proposed to run his business. The 1st plaintiff on getting such

information, questioned the 1st defendant as to how he could establish such

business in the very same lines and the manner as was discussed with the 1st

plaintiff. He gave evasive replies and stated that one of his close associates

established such business and that at his instance, the 1st defendant associated

with him. The 1st plaintiff could not suspect the 1st defendant, for his father,

the 2nd defendant was the contractor engaged in the field of undertaking road

contracts while the 1st defendant was assisting him. The 1st defendant made

futile efforts to discourage the 1st plaintiff stating that there was good

competition and as such, the proposed business was not viable and profitable

as expected. But knowing his strong determination and the preparation of the

plaintiffs, the 1st defendant became apprehensive that the plaintiffs' innovative

coffee cafes would come in the way of his "Kumbakonam Degree Coffee" 7. The plaintiffs' further case, was that the 1st defendant in or about the

last quarter of 2019 requested the 1st plaintiff to be a part of his "Kumbakonam

Degree Coffee" business in place of his associate as his associate had no more

interest to run the said business so that the 1st plaintiff and the 1st defendant

could gear up their business operations, establishing more kiosks using the
 RNT, J & CGR, J 9 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 plaintiffs' business name "Madras Filter Coffee" and also to enjoy the benefits

accruing therefrom. The 1st plaintiff accepted the proposal of the 1st defendant.

Accordingly, the 1st plaintiff paid the amounts invested by the partner of the 1st

defendant and settled his account. At the time when the partnership deed was

about to be prepared, the 1st defendant insisted that instead of himself and the

1st plaintiff, his wife and the 1st plaintiff's mother should be the partners in the

proposed firm. That proposal was accepted and accordingly the 1st defendant

got prepared a partnership Deed dated 22.06.2020 for carrying on business in

the name of the Firm PSK Food and Beverages, wherein signatures of the

above said persons were obtained. Their further case was that the 1st

defendant and his wife did not cooperate and later under the guise of

astrological guidance, the 1st defendant got prepared another partnership Deed

dated 14.08.2020, in which the 1st plaintiff and the 1st defendant were shown to

be the partners of the Firm, P.C.Enterprises. Later on, the 1st plaintiff found

that the said partnership deed on which his signatures were obtained by the 1st

defendant were not at all comprehensive and the 1st plaintiff was not given any

role, though in fact, the 1st plaintiff was supposed to be the main partner to

manage and control all the business affairs. In view thereof and the discussion

made with the 1st defendant, another partnership deed dated 01.10.2020 to

carry on business in the name of the firm P.C.Enterprises, the 2nd plaintiff,

under the brand name/business title "The Madras Filter Coffee" or "Madras

Filter Coffee". RNT, J & CGR, J 10 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 8. During the process of distribution of business work, the 1st Defendant

proposed that 1st plaintiff should execute and implement the plans to develop

the business and to set up kiosks/coffee shops, bakeries and restaurants at

various places in and around Andhra Pradesh and Telangana States either in

the brand name or trade name of "Madras Filter Coffee" or in the name of

"Kumbakonam Degree Coffee" or to grant franchises to third parties. The 1st

plaintiff accepted to undertake the same. He appointed the trained suitable

staff wherever necessary and also involved third parties to manage the local

business affairs to run business with the trade name "Madras Filter Coffee". In

some places, at the instance of the 1st defendant, the 1st plaintiff cooperated

and assisted in establishment of the coffee cafes or kiosks in the name of

"Kumbakonam Degree Coffee". 9. The further case of the plaintiffs was that the 1st plaintiff requested his

father, the 3rd plaintiff, to assist and guide him and the 1st defendant in running

the business in the name of 2nd plaintiff, as the 3rd plaintiff, did coffee business

for several years and he was one of the pioneers in such business. In fact, the

3rd plaintiff had created brand name "Madras Filter Coffee" along with his

father. To protect and preserve such name and fame and develop the quality

of its products, the 3rd plaintiff started looking after the administrative and

operational works, though the 3rd plaintiff was not a partner of the firm at that

time. The 1st defendant also took it as advantage and started avoiding to

attend even the office of the 2nd plaintiff to take care of the business affairs,

creating much more inconvenience. In those circumstances, the 3rd plaintiff
 RNT, J & CGR, J 11 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 warned the 1st defendant that he would not permit the 1st plaintiff to run the

business using the trade name/mark "Madras Filter Coffee" and its image/logo,

unless the business was run properly. In spite thereof, there was total

callousness on the part of the 1st defendant and as such he imposed a condition

to the 1st plaintiff to apply and obtain the trademark license for "Madras Filter

Coffee" and image/logo. Accordingly, the 1st plaintiff applied for registration of

trademark image/logo as shown in the annexure to the plaintiff, as early as on

13.03.2022. 10. The plaintiffs' further case was that the 3rd plaintiff started taking

care of the business, as the 1st defendant was practically spoiling the brand

image of "Madras Filter Coffee" without extending any cooperation. The 1st

defendant expressed his desire to resign as partner of the 2nd plaintiff firm and

to quit the partnership business after receiving his share of investment and

profits. Such proposal was accepted by the 1st plaintiff. They entered into a

Memorandum of Understanding dated 11.01.2023 to place on record the

intention of the parties for division of the shops, cash, banking affairs of the 2nd

plaintiff firm, and tax liabilities of the 2nd plaintiff firm and the raw material on

account. The 1st plaintiff agreed that he had no claims or interest whatsoever

over "Kumbakonam Degree Coffee" brand franchises, the 1st defendant agreed

that he had no claims or interest whatsoever over "Madras Filter Coffee" brand.

In the process of implementing the terms agreed between the 1st plaintiff and

the 1st defendant,they felt the necessity or reconstructing the 2nd plaintiff firm

to join another partner. Though the account of the 1st defendant was settled
 RNT, J & CGR, J 12 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 even by 11.01.2023,the books of accounts, after verification were closed on

19.01.2023 and the profit and loss, as on that day, were accounted for and the

profits were credited to the respective capital accounts as per the profit sharing

ratio. Thereafter, on 19.01.2023 the partnership was reconstituted with the

third party. On the next day i.e., 20.01.2023, the 1st defendant retired from the

2nd plaintiff firm. Reflecting the same, the retirement deed dated 20.01.2023

was executed incorporating the following clauses among others: 11. As per the Memorandum of Understanding dated 11.01.2023, there

were several obligations to be discharged by both the parties and as such to

avoid bickering in future, they decided to execute affidavits, reaffirming what
 RNT, J & CGR, J 13 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 was undertaken by them earlier and reaffirming their future obligations.

Accordingly, the 1st defendant executed an affidavit on oath before the

Advocate/Notary on 30.01.2023 affirming that he had no connection

whatsoever with "Madras Filter Coffee" and "The Madras Filter Coffee" brands

and that he shall not start or market or promote or support or do business

under the name and style which is similar to "Madras Filter Coffee" and "The

Madras Filter Coffee" brands or trademarks or "P.C.Enterprises". The 1st

plaintiff also executed an affidavit in respect of his businss under the name and

style of "Kumbakonam Degree Coffee". 12. The plaintiffs further case was that in support of the documents

earlier executed, the 1st plaintiff and 1st defendant executed a Memorandum of

Understanding dated 06.02.2023, specifically describing the outlets, set up by

them after the partnership was entered into; the outlets set up by them in

partnership with third parties entering into separate agreements for such coffee

shops/outlets; the outlets maintained by the third parties, wherein, the 1st

plaintiff or 1st defendant invested money, as per their convenience. Even in the

Memorandum of Understanding dated 06.02.2023, it was made clear that 1st

plaintiff has no claims or interest, whatsoever over 'Kumbakonam Decree

Coffee' brand and 1st defendant had no claims or interest, whatsoever, over

'Madras Filter Coffee' brand. It was also specifically mentioned therein that

though 1st plaintiff and 1st defendant were at liberty to set up new shops, 1st

plaintiff shall not set up such shops either in his individual name and through

others or support shops/outlets in a name and style similar to 'Kumbakonam
 RNT, J & CGR, J 14 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 Decree Coffee' and, similarly, 1st defendant shall not set up such shops either in

his individual name and through others or support shops/outlets in a name and

style similar to "Madras Filter Coffee" brand. III. Defendants' case: 13. The 2nd defendant filed written statement, inter alia, denying the

plaintiffs' case, in particular, that the grandfather of the 1st plaintiff carried on

coffee café business in Madras city in or about 1978-79. It was also denied

that the 1st plaintiff joined the business and the trade name/mark and also

earned goodwill. It was submitted that the plaintiffs had no right whatsoever

through any firm by long usage or registration of trademark or copyright

pertaining to the Madras Filter Coffee. It was denied that the plaintiffs'

business was started long ago. No valid or legal material was submitted by the

plaintiffs, except the self-serving statement. If really the business was

commenced by the plaintiffs long ago, they would have submitted the relevant

public documents to substantiate the said fact. It was pleaded that the

plaintiffs ought to have submitted the sales tax returns, service tax, VAT

documents, GST returns, Income tax returns, Food license, Trade licence and

Labour licence etc. Non-furnishing of the said documents and furnishing the

GST returns from the year 2020 clearly proved the falsity of the case about the

plaintiffs commencement of the business long ago. The plaintiffs' case of long

user of the logo or caption was specifically denied. 14. The case of the 2nd defendant was that the 2nd defendant was the

Managing Partner of the registered Partnership under the name and style of
 RNT, J & CGR, J 15 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 'Madras Filter Coffee'. The 2nd defendant had been in the business of contracts

and retailing of coffee, since 1985 and 2004 respectively and over the years, in

the arena of contracts he earned a respectful name for his timely execution at

competitive prices and with high quality and integrity. As part of diversification,

the 2nd defendant ventured into the business of retailing of coffee through

shops and at the inception stage, he started on a micro/small scale and

gradually extended and improved his business operation at various placed and

even then, he operated on a relatively small scale under the name 'Madras

Filter Coffee' since 2004. It was further pleaded that originally, the 2nd

defendant due to his business profile as a large contractor with government

projects in different parts, had to travel frequently and found that the

economics of retailing coffee turned attractive due to the rise of consumerism,

and he decided to start coffee shops and since filter coffee from Madras is

synonymous to high quality coffee since his childhood. In the process, the 2nd

defendant acquired a unique, distinctive and remarkable identity along with

patronage, loyalty and goodwill of the customers and even to that day, he

operated on a small scale with a few selected franchises and it was only

recently that it became a necessity to register the firm because of the statutory

protection afforded in order to collect dues from franchises and because the 2nd

defendant believed that it would help him increase his business foot print. 15. It was further pleaded that the trademark claimed by the plaintiffs

'Madras Filter Coffee' was very distinct and different from 'The Madras Filter

Coffee' since 2004 and was clearly distinguishable because year of foundation
 RNT, J & CGR, J 16 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 by the defendant was clearly mentioned and by applying the Wednesbury

principle of reasonableness, there was no possibility of a reasonable person

getting confused and confounded by two names by exercising his or her

informed choice. The 2nd defendant further pleaded that in so far as the

'Madras Filter Coffee' no one had any right to claim a copy right or trademark

as 'Madras' was the name of the city and 'Filter Coffee' was commodity. As

such, the plaintiffs had no right whatsoever to make a claim over the said

property. The logo of the defendant was not similar to the logo of the plaintiffs

and it was not at all misleading and the colours were different and the design

was different and the font of the letters was different. The presence of coffee

leaves and beans was not at all similar. 16. The plaintiffs failed to establish prima facie case, and that the

balance of convenience was in their favour. In fact, no irreparable loss would

be occurred to the plaintiffs if an injunction was not granted in their favour and

the comparative loss that would accrue to the defendant if an injunction was

granted in favour of the plaintiffs was relatively higher and would amount to

perpetuation of injustice against the respondent till disposal of the proceedings. 17. The 2nd defendant pleaded that recently he acquired knowledge

about the summons from the trial Court sent by the plaintiffs, upon which he

came to know of the supposed agreements, which were being used against the

2nd defendant. It was pleaded that the 2nd defendant never waived any rights

nor did he ever acquiesced any right over the said trademark/name and logo,
 RNT, J & CGR, J 17 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 and making the 2nd defendant a party and getting an ad interim injunction

against him was not maintainable. 18. It was further submitted that the claims of the plaintiffs that the

grandfather of the 1st plaintiff started coffee shops in or around 1978 was

nothing but a figment of their imagination and a narrative that has been used

by the plaintiffs to mislead the Court while not disclosing the fact that they have

no established legal right over the said trademark/name and logo and that the

application filed by the 1st plaintiff was pending with the Registrar of

Trademarks who had asked him to provide proof to attest and buttress their

claim that they were long users since 1978, which they had not done till that

date. Further, the plaintiffs, despite claiming that they had invested monies to

expand the goodwill and build the brand, have not produced even a shared of

evidence in the form of statutory tax payments or any other filings like income

tax returns and others documents to testify their supposed long use going back

to 1978. Further, the GST receipts filed by the plaintiffs were of more recent

origin shedding ample light on their false claim of long usage and enjoyment. 19. With respect to the application of the trademark filed by the

plaintiffs, it was submitted by the 3rd defendant that the objection was raised

under the Trademarks Act , on which, the Registrar of Trademark, Chennai

issued a report to the effect that the said application was liable to be refused.

The defendant had also applied for the trademark on 21.03.2023 and that was

pending registration, so no one was the registered user. The 2nd defendant

further stated that the plaintiffs had no prima facie case and there was no
 RNT, J & CGR, J 18 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 balance of convenience in their favour, since the claim only went back to about

3-4 years, whereas it was stated that the defendant had been a long user of

the trademark. The trademark, name, logo were created by the defendant and

his personnel in the year 2004 itself. So, the plaintiffs were not entitled to

claim any relief against the defendants. The suit was filed only for permanent

injunction, but not for declaration, though the plaintiffs were required to

establish their right by seeking for declaration over the property and also for

injunction. The defendants had not infringed any registered trademark. The

alleged long user of the trademark was not substantiated by any material valid

paper, except self-serving statement and self-created documents. IV. Applications: 20. The plaintiffs filed application for temporary injunction I.A.No.537 of

2023 against the defendants, restraining from starting or marketing or

promotion or supporting or doing business either individually or jointly or with

third parties, under the name and style which is similar to 'Madras Filter Coffee'

or "The Madras Filter Coffee' or such other name or trademark, with or without

logo as shown in Schedule 'A' of the plaint, to which also the counter

affidavit/objection was filed, as per the case set up in the written statement. 21. The plaintiffs filed another application for temporary injunction

I.A.No.536 of 2023 against the defendants, restraining them, their men, agents

partners, licence holders or distributors or associates, or representatives, or

servants or all other persons acting either on behalf of the defendants or at the

instance of the defendants or otherwise, from in any manner passing off their
 RNT, J & CGR, J 19 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 goods or services as that of petitioners by either using the petitioners'

trademark 'Madras Filter Coffee' or its trademark image/logo as shown in

Schedule 'A' of the petition, to which also the counter affidavit/objection was

filed, as per the case set up in the written statement. V. Order of the learned trial Court: 22. The learned trial Court framed the point for consideration as to

"whether the petitioners are entitled for grant of temporary injunction as

prayed for during pendency of the suit?" in both the applications, I.A.Nos.537

of 2023 and I.A.No.536 of 2023. 23. No oral evidence was produced by the parties, except relying upon

the documents filed by them in support of their respective pleadings. 24. The learned trial Court observed that the plaintiffs were able to

establish prima facie case in their favour. Further, if injunction was not

granted, there was likelihood of plaintiffs suffering irreparable loss and injury

and such injury would be higher than the injury that would be caused to the

defendants if injunction was granted. The learned trial Court thus concluded

that the balance of convenience was also in favour of the plaintiffs. It held that

the plaintiffs were entitled for grant of temporary injunction and accordingly

granted it vide Order dated 21.10.2022 passed separately in both the I.As. 25. Para-70 of the Order in I.A.No.537 of 2023 reads as under: 26. Para-70 of the Order in I.A.No.537 of 2023 also reads as under: 27. CMA No.522 of 2023 has been filed challenging the Order dated

21.10.2022 passed in I.A.No.537 of 2023. CMA No.523 of 2023 has been filed

challenging the Order dated 21.10.2022 passed in I.A.No.536 of 2023. VI. Submissions of the learned Counsels: It failed to consider that 'The Madras Filter Coffee' or 'Madras Filter Coffee', for

the first time came in the comprehensive partnership deed dated 01.10.2020.

The observation made by the learned trial Court was that such business was

from the year 1978-79, as was mentioned in the Partnership Deed of

19.01.2023, and the Retirement Deed dated 20.01.2023. He submitted that,

that was only at the time of retirement of partners and till such time there was

also no evidence coming forth to prove the very the existence of such business

in such name or to prove prior user. He submitted that no evidence was filed

by the plaintiffs to prove the existence of the business in the name of 'Madras

Filter Coffee' or 'The Madras Filter Coffee' from the year 1978-79. No tax

returns, food licence, service tax, trade licence, labour licence etc., were filed

before the Court to show that the business was running from 1978-79. Learned

counsel for the appellant submitted that the burden to prove prima case was on

the plaintiffs and in the nature of the present suit to restrain the defendants in

an action for passing off the burden was heaviour by establishing with cogent

evidence the existence of the business in the name and style of "Madras Filter

Coffee' since 1978-79, i.e., prior user. But, no such evidence was forthcoming

and therefore, the learned trial Court simply on some statement in the Deed

dated 19.01.2023 & 20.01.2023, could not observe that, there was prior user

and based thereon could not grant temporary injunction. 29. Learned counsel for the appellant placed reliance in the following

cases: 30. Learned counsel for the respondents/plaintiffs supported the

judgment under challenge. He submitted that the learned trial Court has

specifically recorded the finding on the aspect of prior user since 1978-79 and

in support thereof, there was statement in the Deeds dated 19.01.2023 &

20.01.2023, which could not be ignored. That was sufficient to establish prima

facie case in favour of the plaintiffs. On the point of balance of convenience

and irreparable injury the findings have also been recorded in plaintiffs' favour.

So, there is no illegality in the Order under challenge. 31. Learned counsel for the respondents submitted that in the exercise

of discretionary jurisdiction, the learned trial Court has passed the temporary

injunction order which cannot be interfered in the exercise of appellate

jurisdiction. VII. Point for determination: 32. The points that arose for our consideration and determination are;

 A. Whether the plaintiffs established the prima facie case for grant of

 temporary injunction? (2007) 6 SCC 1 2 (2000) 5 SCC 573 3 ILR (1977) II Delhi 709 4 (2001) 5 SCC 95
 RNT, J & CGR, J 23 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 B. Whether the impugned Order is legal and justified or it calls for

 interference? VIII. Consideration: 33. The plaintiffs' case was that the 1st plaintiff's grandfather carried on

coffee café business in Madras city in or about 1978-79 in the name and style

of 'Madras Filter Coffee', which was taken over by his son, the 3rd plaintiff, in

which the 1st plaintiff joined later on. So far as the defendants are concerned,

their case was that the 1st defendant, after coming into contact with the 1st

plaintiff, secretly, started the coffee business in the name and style of

'Kumbakonam Decree Coffee' some times in the year 2009 and then there was

a partnership deed dated 22.06.2020 between the wife of the 1st defendant and

the mother of the 1st plaintiff for carrying on business in the name of PSK Food

and Beverages. But, thereafter another partnership deed dated 14.08.2020

was entered between the 1st plaintiff and the 1st defendant as partners, to run

the business in the name of Firm 'P.C.Enterprises', the 2nd plaintiff. But in view

of some developments, another partnership deed dated 01.10.2020 in the same

name of Firm 'P.C.Enterprises' was entered to carry on the business under the

brand name/business 'The Madras Filter Coffee' or 'Madras Filter Coffee'. Later

on, they entered into a Memorandum of Understanding dated 11.01.2023 for

division of the shops, cash, the banking affairs, tax liabilities etc., and the

account was settled on 11.01.2023, and after verification, the accounts were

closed on 19.01.2023. On 19.01.2023 the partnership deed was reconstituted

with the third parties and on the next day on 20.01.2023, the 1st defendant
 RNT, J & CGR, J 24 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 retired from the 1st plaintiff, under the retirement deed executed on

20.01.2023, and as per the terms of the settlement and the retirement deed,

the 1st defendant had no concern whatsoever with 'Madras Filter Coffee' and

'The Madras Filter Coffee' brands or trademarks or 'P.C.Enterprises' and

affidavit to that effect, dated 30.01.2023 was also executed by the 1st

defendant and also by the 1st plaintiff in respect of his business not to do such

business under the name and style of 'Kumbakonam Decree Coffee'. The

grievance raised in the suit was that in spite thereof, the 1st defendant made

efforts to open a stall by the franchise India misusing the trade name, logo,

design 'Madras Filter Coffee' or 'The Madras Filter Coffee', the goodwill by

illegally giving scope to involve third parties to spoil the trade name/mark and

business image/logo of the 1st plaintiff and thereby to have illegal and unlawful

advantage, crating complications and litigation by passing off the products of 1st

defendant. On subsequent occasions, the defendants made several illegal acts

of their goods or products as if they were that of the 1st plaintiff. The 1st

defendant did not stop his illegal and unethical acts and also submitted

application through his father, 2nd defendant, for registration of the trade name,

marks and logo of trade name 'Madras Filter Coffee' since 2004. The 1st

defendant also created fake website or same name identical to the website of

the plaintiffs. 34. Defendants case was of denial of any prior user of trademark by the

plaintiffs since 1978-79. Their case was about the joint user under the first

partnership dated 22.06.2020 between the wife of the 1st defendant and the
 RNT, J & CGR, J 25 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 mother of the 1st plaintiff for carrying on business in the name of PSK Food and

Bevarages, which was subsequently entered into between the 1st plaintiff and

the 1st defendant vide partnership deed dated 14.08.2020. So, their case was

the denial of the plaintiffs' case of prior user. 35. The appellants have filed the documents which were filed before the

learned trial Court vide Memo dated 18.07.2024. 36. In the present case I.A.No.1 of 2024 was filed by the appellant to

receive the documents annexed therewith, as an additional evidence in the

appeal. However, on 21.08.2024 the said application was not pressed, which

was rejected as not pressed. 37. So far as the registration of the trademark is concerned, by the time

the suit was filed and the application for temporary injunction was considered,

there was no such trademark registered in favour of any of the parties, with or

without logo under the name and style of 'Madras Filter Coffee' or 'The Madras

Filter Coffee'. The case of the plaintiffs was also that the 1st plaintiff applied for

the trademark in the name of 'Madras Filter Coffee' and "The Madras Filter

Coffee'. It is also not in dispute between the parties that against the

application, the other party raised objections for grant of trademark. During

pendency, it has been pointed out that there was trademark registered, but

against the same proceeding by filing the application was taken. The 1st

defendant also got filed the application for trademark through the 3rd defendant

on 25.04.2023. RNT, J & CGR, J 26 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 38. Learned counsel for the parties are not at issue on the aspect of the

trademark, as in their contentions and rightly so that, that is not relevant for

the purposes of consideration of the application for temporary injunction in view

of the settled law that in matters of passing off action the Courts must look into

the prior usage of goods or services and registration or non-registration of

trademark has no relevance at all to decide the issue of temporary injunction in

passing off actions. Point 'A': 39. Order 39 Rule 1 CPC reads as under: Rule 1: Cases in which temporary injunction may be granted.--
 Where in any suit it is proved by affidavit or otherwise-- (a) that any property in dispute in a suit is in danger of being wasted,
 damaged or alienated by any party to the suit, or wrongfully sold in execution
 of a decree, or (b) that the defendant threatens, or intends, to remove or dispose of his
 property with a view to [defrauding] his creditors,
 [(c) that the defendant threatens to dispossess, the plaintiff or otherwise
 cause injury to the plaintiff in relation to any property in dispute in the suit,]
 the Court may by order grant a temporary injunction to restrain such act, or
 make such other order for the purpose of staying and preventing the wasting,
 damaging, alienation, sale, removal or disposition of the property 5 [or
 dispossession of the plaintiff, or otherwise causing injury to the plaintiff in
 relation to any property in dispute in the suit] as the Court thinks fit, until the
 disposal of the suit or until further orders." 40. The main ground on which the learned trial Court, considered the

plaintiffs to have established the prima facie case, is that according to the
 RNT, J & CGR, J 27 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 learned trial Court, there was recitals of the partnership deed dated 19.01.2023

and 20.01.2023 executed by the 1st defendant (appellant herein) stating that

the 1st plaintiff from the time of his forefathers since 1978-79 were in the

business similar to the business started under 'P.C.Enterprises' and similar

business being run by the 1st plaintiff and his father, the 3rd plaintiff, under the

name and style of M/s.Madras Filter Coffee, as observed in para-59 of its

judgment. In view thereof, the learned trial Court did not accept the contention

of the defendants that the plaintiffs had not established, by producing

documents, about long usage of its trademark. 41. In Satyam Infoway Ltd. v. Sifynet Solutions (P) Ltd.5 the

Hon'ble Apex Court observed that an action for passing off, as the phrase

'passing off' itself suggest was to restrain the defendant from passing off its

goods or services to the public as that of the plaintiff. If the trade rivals claim

to have individually invented the same mark, then the trader who is able to

establish prior user will succeed. 42. Paragraphs-13 to 17 of Satyam Infoway Ltd. (supra) read as

under: 43. In Uniply Industries Ltd. (supra) where in the two suits filed by

the parties, there was common field of activity between the two parties in

respect of goods and trademarks sought to be used by either way were

identical, the Hon'ble Apex Court observed that in such a case the only question

that needed to be decided was as to who was the prior user. 44. Paragraphs-6 to 8 of Uniply Industries Ltd. (supra) read as under: 45. In Heinz Italia (supra) on the subject of passing off, the Hon'ble

Apex Court referred to the case in Century Traders (supra), in which, it was

held that in an action for passing off, the plaintiff has to establish prior user to

secure an injunction and the registration of the mark or similar mark in point of

time is irrelevant. The Hon'ble Apex Court also referred of the case of Cadila

Health Care Ltd., V. Cadila Pharmaceuticlas Ltd. , ((2001) 5 SCC 73), in

which, the Hon'ble Apex Court on 'passing off' laid down at paragraph No.15 as

under : 46. In the aforesaid case, it was held that in the case of unregistered

trademarks, a passing off action is maintainable. The passing off action

depends upon the principle that nobody has a right to present his goods as the

goods of somebody. 47. The Deed of Partnership (Ex.P6) dated 19.01.2023, which has been

referred by the learned trial Court, and has been filed in the present appeal,
 RNT, J & CGR, J 33 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 along with Memo dated 18.07.2024, containing the material documents filed in

O.S.No.68 of 2023 on the file of the VII Additional District Judge, Vijayawada,

the relevant part therefrom relied upon by the learned trial Court while granting

temporary injunction, reads as under: 48. The Deed of Retirement (Ex.P7) dated 20.01.2023, which has also

referred by the learned trial Court, and filed with the said memo, the relevant

part thereof, relied by the learned trial Court, also reads as under: 49. We have perused the copy of the Partnership Deed of the Firm PSK

Food and Beverages (Ex.P2), dated 22.06.2020, which was between the wife of

the 1st defendant and the mother of the 1st plaintiff, as also the copy of the

Partnership Deed (Ex.P3), dated 14.08.2020 between the 1st plaintiff and the 1st
 RNT, J & CGR, J 34 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 defendant, but in none of those documents, it is so mentioned, as is mentioned

in the Partnership Deed (Ex.P6) dated 19.01.2023 and the Retirement Deed

(Ex.P7) dated 20.01.2023 that the grandfather of the 1st plaintiff started the

business in 1978-79, whereas those Partnership Deeds (Exs.P2 & P3) were

executed prior thereto. For the first time, the said fact finds mention in Exs.P6

and P7, Partnership Deed, dated 19.01.2023 and Retirement Deed, dated

20.01.2023. In the affidavit of the 2nd defendant dated 30.01.2023 also there is

no such averment, pointed out to this Court. 50. The case of the plaintiffs in the plaint and their application for

temporary injunction, having been specifically denied about the start of the

business and running initially from 1978-79, we are of the view that the

plaintiffs should have filed evidence in support of such pleading. Only

document referred by the trial Court, to hold prior user, is Ex.P6 copy of the

Partnership Deed dated 19.01.2023 and Ex.P7 copy of the Retirement Deed

dated 20.01.2023 and that was only by the 1st defendant, the son of the 2nd

defendant. Even if it be taken for the time being that, the same amounted to

admission, as there was signature of the 1st defendant, upon which the learned

trial Court much emphasized, the same could not be read against all the

defendants, in particular, the appellant, the 2nd defendant, in view of his clear

denial. It is settled in law that even the admission can be explained so,

whether that amounted to admission or not, so as to bind all the defendants,

would be an issue for consideration during trial. We are of the view that at this

stage of the proceeding, to consider temporary injunction, based on stray
 RNT, J & CGR, J 35 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 statement in the copy of the Partnership Deed (Ex.P6) dated 19.01.2023 and

copy of the Retirement Deed (Ex.P7), dated 20.01.2023 was not justified. We

also find from the dates of the Partnership Deed (Ex.P6) and the Retirement

Deed (Ex.P7) that the partnership deed, containing that statement with respect

to 1978-79 business by the plaintiffs' grandfather is dated 19.01.2023 and on

the next day there is Retirement Deed, dated 20.01.2023. When considered

along with the documents, viz., Partnership Deed of the Firm PSK Food and

Beverages (Ex.P2), dated 22.06.2020, Partnership Deed of the firm PC

Enterprises (Ex.P3), dated 14.08.2020, Comprehensive Partnership Deed

(Ex.P4), dated 01.10.2020 and Memorandum of Understanding (Ex.P5), dated

11.01.2023 on record, which contain no such statement of user by plaintiffs

grandfather since 1978-79, as also in the absence of any other

material/evidence to show prior user, the learned trial Court ought not to have

considered that stray statement, i.e., what is written in the Partnership Deed

(Ex.P6), dated 19.01.2023 and the Retirement Deed (Ex.P7), dated 20.01.2023,

at this stage so as to hold that the plaintiffs established prima facie case, and

based thereon ought not to have granted temporary injunction. 51. In our view, as per the settled law, in such matters where the

trademark is not registered in favour of any party and both the parties claim

prior user, it is for the plaintiffs to establish prima facie case and for that to

establish the prior user based on cogent material. Such material is missing, in

the present case, at least at this stage. Even in the copy of the Partnership

Deed (Ex.P6), dated 19.01.2023 and the copy of the Retirement Deed (Ex.P7),
 RNT, J & CGR, J 36 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 dated 20.01.2023, mention is of user by the plaintiffs' grandfather during 1978-

79, but no material or evidence, for the period from 1978-79 till the date of

such Deeds, Exs.P6 & P7, based upon which, such mentioned was made, was

disclosed. 52. Learned counsel for the respondents/plaintiffs also could not show

to us any other material from the documents filed. 53. In Century Traders (supra), the Delhi High Court observed and

held at paragraph Nos.13 & 14, as under : RNT, J & CGR, J 37 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 54. In Century Traders (supra) it was held that the relevant was user

of a mark as opposed to registration of mark. The onus of proving user was on

the person who claims it. There must be proof of user. The law thus, is well

settled that in order to succeed at this stage of temporary injunction, the

plaintiff has to establish user of the mark prior in point of time than the user by

the defendant. The registration of the mark or similar mark prior in point of

time, is not relevant in an action passing off. For the purposes of deciding the

application for the interim injunction unless evidence had been led or was

available of user of the registered trademarks, the application for interim

injunction could not be allowed. 55. In the present case, the learned trial Court simply on what was

written in Exs.P6 & P7, taking the same as basis of prior user, and so prima

facie case made out, has granted the temporary injunction without there being

any evidence. In our view, the learned trial Court committed error of law,

apparent, as even prima facie, for any prior user since 1978-1979 by the

plaintiffs, there was absolutely no evidence to show that. When the presence

of the mark in register maintained by Trademark Registry could not prove its

user, which required evidence, based on one sentence in Exs.P6 and P7 of the

year 2023 of its own could not prove prior user, in the absence of any evidence

of user. 56. In Uniply Industries Ltd. (supra), in deciding the question of prior

user, High Court relied upon (1) advertisement made by the respondents, (2)

invoices, and (3) letters of dealers. It was observed by the Hon'ble Apex Court
 RNT, J & CGR, J 38 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 that no doubt the advertisement was made in the year 1993 itself, was whether

followed up by goods being dealt with the trademarks in question was not

clear. So far as the invoices were concerned, it was not very clear from the

same that they were in relation to goods containing the trade marks in

question. It was observed that the same was required to be established by

placing proper material before the Court. Thus, the facts were required to be

threshed out at the trial Court. At the stage, for the grant of a temporary

injunction, a stray prima facie case must be established. 57. In Corn Products Refining Co. V. Shangrila Food Products

Ltd.,6 the Hon'ble Apex Court observed and held that the onus of proving

such user is on the applicant, who wanted to rely on those marks. In the said

case, the applicant led no evidence as to the user of marks with the common

element. What had happened was that the Deputy Registrar looked into his

register and found there a large number of marks which had either 'Gluco' or

'Vita' as prefix or suffix in it. The Hon'ble Apex Court observed that the

presence of a mark in the register does not prove its user at all. It was further

observed that it was not permissible to draw any inference as to the user from

the presence of the marks on the register. 58. The relevant paragraph Nos.15 & 16 to 8 in Corn Products

Refining Co. (supra), are reproduced as under : 59. In Laxmikant V. Patel vs. Chetanbhai Shah and Another7 the

Hon'ble Apex Court observed that in an action for passing-off it is usual, rather 7 (2002) 3 SCC 65
 RNT, J & CGR, J 40 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 essential, to seek an injunction, temporary or ad interim. The principles for the

grant of such injunction are the same as in the case of any other action against

injury complained of. The plaintiff must prove prima facie case, availability of

balance of convenience in his favour and his suffering an irreparable injury in

the absence of grant of injunction. 60. Consequently, we are of the view that if there was the statements

under Exs.P6 & P7, which has been read against the defendants, that could not

show or establish prima facie of prior user. The burden was on the plaintiff to

show that prior user. But no relevant material was filed, and from Exs.P6 and

P7 any inference could not be drawn of prior user by the first plaintiff. IX. Scope of interference in appeal: 61. On the scope of interference by the appellate Court against the order

in the matter of grant of temporary injunction, the Hon'ble Apex Court in Laxmikant V. Patel (supra) observed and held at paragraph No.17 as under: 62. With respect to the exercise of appellate powers in relation to the

exercise of discretion by the trial court in deciding an application for temporary

injunction, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Wander Ltd. v. Antox India (P)

Ltd.8 held that in such appeals, the appellate Court will not interfere with the

exercise of discretion of the court of first Instance and substitute its own

discretion except where the discretion has been shown to have been exercised

arbitrarily, or capriciously or perversely or where the court had ignored the

settled principles of law regulating grant or refusal of interlocutory injunctions.

An appeal against exercise of discretion is said to be an appeal on principle.

Appellate court will not re-assess the material and seek to reach a conclusion 8 1990 Supp SCC 727
 RNT, J & CGR, J 42 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 different from the one reached by the court below if the one reached by that

court was reasonably possible on the material. The appellate court would

normally not be justified in interfering with the exercise of discretion under

appeal solely on the ground that if it had considered the matter at the trial

stage it would have come to a contrary conclusion. If the discretion has been

exercised by the trial court reasonably and in a judicial manner the fact that the

appellate court would have taken a different view may not justify interference

with the trial court's exercise of discretion. 63. In Esha Ekta Appartments Chs Ltd. v. Municipal Corpn. of

Mumbai9 , the Hon'ble Supreme Court again considered the scope of appellate

court power to interfere in an interim order passed by the court at the first

instance and held in paragraphs Nos. 19, 20 and 21, which are re-produced as

under: 64. In Skyline Education Institute (India) (P) Ltd. v. S.L.

Vaswan10 (2010) 2 SCC 142, the three-Judge Bench considered a somewhat

similar question in the context of the refusal of the trial court and the High

Court to pass an order of temporary injunction, referred to the judgments in Wander Ltd. v. Antox India (P) Ltd.2 , N.R. Dongre v. Whirlpool Corpn. and

observed: 65. So, it is well settled in law that if the exercise of discretion by the

learned trial Court is not reasonable or not of judicial manner and has been 10 (2010) 2 SCC 142
 RNT, J & CGR, J 44 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 arbitrarily and capriciously or perversely or where the learned trial Court

ignored the basic principles of law regulating to grant or refusal of interlocutory

injunction, it cannot be said that in exercise of the appellate jurisdiction, the

same cannot be interfered. In such cases, it is the power and also the duty of

the appellate Court to interfere with the same. We have already recorded that

the finding on prima facie case suffers from perversity and it is not based on

any material evidence to show the prior user at least at this stage.

Consequently, case for interference in the exercise of appellate jurisdiction is

made out. The points 'A' and 'B' formulated by us supra stand answered in

view of our conclusion was recorded. X. Conclusions: 66. Thus, we find merit in the submissions advanced by the learned

counsel for the appellant. The learned trial Court has failed to apply the correct

and settled principles of law in considering the temporary injunction in the

matter of passing off action. There is no judicious exercise of discretion. The

finding on prima facie suffers from perversity. There was no evidence to

establish, at this stage, the prior user by the plaintiffs. So, the findings on

other aspects, balance of convenience and causing of irreparable loss and

injury, could not be in favour of plaintiffs as well. The learned trial Court erred

in law in granting the temporary injunction. The Orders passed by the learned

trial Court cannot be sustained in the eyes of law which deserve to be set aside. RNT, J & CGR, J 45 CMA Nos. 522 & 523 of 2023 XI. Result: 67. The Orders dated 21.10.2022 passed in I.A.Nos.536 & 537 of 2023 in

O.S.No.68 of 2023, which are under challenge, are set aside. The Civil

Miscellaneous Appeals are allowed. 68. No Order as to costs. Pending miscellaneous petitions, if any, shall stand closed in

consequence. _______________________
 RAVI NATH TILHARI, J

 ________________________
 CHALLA GUNARANJAN, J
Date: 09.05.2025
Dsr/Rpd

Note: