K.K.SASIDHARAN, J
	These original side appeals are directed against the common order dated 7.9.2007 in O.A.Nos.708 to 710 of 2003 in C.S.No.504 of 2007 whereby the learned Single Judge rejected the prayer for injunction pending suit. 2. The appellant herein filed a suit in C.S.No.504 of 2007 against the respondents for the following reliefs. (e) The defendants be ordered to pay a sum of Rs.10,05,000/- being compensatory and punitive damage for committing acts of infringement of copyright and passing off in various manner as narrated in the plaint. (f) A preliminary decree be passed in favour of the plaintiff to render true and faithful accounts of profits earned by the defendants by sale of cakes and food items other than breads using the trademark "MILKA" and a final decree be passed in favour of the plaintiff for the amount of profits thus found to have been made by the defendants after the latter have rendered accounts." 3. In the said suit, the appellant filed O.A.Nos.708 to 710 of 2007 for interlocutory injunction. 4. The appellant preferred O.A.No.708 of 2007 for injunction restraining the respondents from committing acts of infringement in respect of their trade mark "MILKA WONDER CAKE" by using the trademark "MILKA" or any other mark similar thereto in respect of cakes. 5. In O.A.No.709 of 2007,the appellant prayed for injunction against the respondents pertaining to infringement of copyright in respect of their artistic work MILA WONDER CAKE wrapper/pouch and the trade mark "MILKA" depicted thereon. 6. In O.A.No.710 of 2007 the appellant prayed for injunction in respect of cakes, chat items, snacks or items other than bread by using the name "MILKA" by the respondents. 7. The case of the appellant as highlighted in the affidavit filed in support of the injunction are as follows:- 8. The appellant company was incorporated in the year 1996 with the main object of dealing in cakes, biscuits and other confectionary items and bakery products and they are in the business of manufacturing and marketing cakes since the year 1997 under the trade names "MILKA" and "MILKA WONDER CAKE". They have been using the trade mark continuously since then in respect of cakes. The appellant is the owner of the copy right in the artistic work Milka and Milka Wonder Cake wrapper/pouch having distinctive colour scheme, get up, lay out and artistic features and the same was registered with the Registrar of Copyrights under No.54521/97 dated 30.12.1997 and as such all the rights, title and interest in the said artistic work vested exclusively with the appellant. The appellant is also the registered proprietor of trade mark "MILKA WONDER CAKE" under No.1242328 dated 9th October, 2003 in class No.30 in respect of cake and the trade mark "MILKA WONDER CAKE" is also registered under No.732507 dated 30th December, 1996 in class 30 in respect of cakes, biscuits and other confectionary items. It is the further case of the appellant that they have made extensive sale of cakes bearing the trade marks "MILKA" and "MILKA WONDER CAKE" in distinctive wrapper/pouch all over the country since the year 1997. The cakes sold by the appellant under the said trade mark have captured huge market resulted in acquiring immense reputation and goodwill. The appellant has also shown their sales turn over for cakes under the trade marks "MILKA" and "MILKA WONDER CAKE" from 1996-97 onwards till 2004-2005. The appellant also claims that they have spent substantial amount towards sales promotion, advertisement and publicity for marketing cakes under the trade mark "MILKA" and "MILKA WONDER CAKE" in distinctive wrapper/pouch and by virtue of the long, continuous, extensive use and wide publicity, the appellant has acquired exclusive right to use the trade marks "MILKA" and "MILKA WONDER CAKE". The appellant contended that the use of any such similar trade mark and artistic work for cakes is bound to cause confusion and deception and amounts to misuse. According to the appellant the trade mark "MILKA" is exclusively identified by the trade and public with the cakes marketed by them. 9. The appellant further submitted that one Mr.V.M.Joseph, Mr.A. Arumugham and the second respondent were the founder promoters of the first respondent company, which was incorporated in the year 1989 and Mr.V.M.Joseph was the Managing Director of the said company and the first respondent company has all along being engaged in the business of manufacturing and marketing breads only. In the year 1997 the said V.M.Joseph in his individual capacity had applied for registration of the trade mark "MILKA" as per application NO.759880 and "WONDER" as per application No.759879, both dated 8.7.1997 in respect of cakes included in class 30. Mr.V.M.Joseph had also applied for registration of the trade mark MILKA WONDER CAKE label as per application No732507 dated 30.12.1996 in class 30 in respect of cakes, biscuits and confectionary items, cooked dishes for human consumption etc., falling in class 30. The said registration has been assigned to the appellant as per agreement dated 30.11.2000 and in the said document the second respondent was an attesting witness. The appellant thus became the proprietor of the aforesaid trade marks "MILKA", "WONDER" and "MILKA WONDER CAKE" in respect of cakes. 10. The appellant contended that until the year 2003 all the promoters were together and Mr.V.M.Joseph was the Managing Director of the group companies and there was no dispute at all. Subsequently Mr.V.M.Joseph fell ill and there was re-organisation of management. Accordingly a Memorandum of Understanding was prepared on 19.6.2003 in and by which it was agreed that the appellant is entitled to use the trade mark "MILKA" for cakes and another company by name Milka Nutriments Private Limited is entitled to use the trade mark "MILKA" for biscuits and the respondents to manufacture breads using the trade mark "MILKA". The said Memorandum of Understanding was handed over to respondent No.2 for his signature but he did not sign the same and retained with him. Difference of opinion aggravated between the parties which resulted in filing C.S.No.361 of 2004 by the appellant herein and C.S.No.790 of 2004 by the respondents herein against each other and the said suits are still pending. It is the further case of the appellant that the respondents started manufacturing cakes in the year 2007 which resulted in filing the present suit in as much as the respondent committed acts of infringement of appellant's registered trade mark "MILKA WONDER CAKE" by using the trade mark "MILKA." 11. Along with the suit the appellant also filed O.A.Nos.708 to 710 of 2007 for interim injunction pending disposal of the suit and in the affidavit filed in support of the injunction application the appellant has narrated the course of events which resulted in filing the suit as well as the interlocutory applications. 12. The second respondent as the Managing Director of the first respondent company filed a common counter affidavit in the interlocutory applications and opposed the prayer. According to the respondents, the appellant was granted the limited licence to use the artistic work "MILKA" under the agreement dated 1.11.1996 so as to enable them to manufacture breads and the said agreement did not permit the appellant to use the trade mark "MILKA" for the purpose of manufacturing and selling cakes and other bakery products. It is the case of the respondents that the first respondent is manufacturing cakes since the year 2004 and they continued to manufacture, market and sell the cakes in the name and style "MILKA TALENT CAKE" and they are the prior user of trade mark "MILKA" and the artistic work contained therein. The respondents also alleged collusion between the appellant and Mr.V.M.Joseph and as according to the respondents in the earlier suit there was no interim order in favour of the appellant and both the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench negatived the prayer made for injunction at the instance of the appellant. Therefore the respondents prayed for dismissing the applications as well as the main suit. 13. The appellant has filed a reply affidavit in answer to the common counter affidavit filed by the respondents wherein he contended that the appellant is a user and registered proprietor of the trade mark "MILKA" in respect of cakes. 14. The learned Single Judge having found that there is no prima facie case in favour of the appellant dismissed the applications, against which the unsuccessful petitioners in O.A.Nos.708 to 710 of 2007 have preferred these appeals. 15. In the above factual matrix, we have heard Mr.Aravind P.Datrar, learned Senior Counsel for the appellant and Mr.P.S.Raman, learned Senior Counsel for the respondents. 16. The learned Senior Counsel for the appellant took us through the entire pleadings and contended that the finding of the learned Single Judge in the applications for interim injunction is perse erroneous and as such it is necessarily to be set aside in these appeals. The learned Senior Counsel further contended that in the face of the trade mark registration obtained by the appellants in class No.30 under No.732507 dated 30.12.1996 and trade mark number 1242328 dated 9.10.2003 both in respect of cakes under class 30, the learned Single Judge should have considered the prima facie case in favour of the appellant. It is the further contention of the learned Senior Counsel that the agreement dated 1.11.1996 relied on by the learned Single Judge to reject the prayer for injunction is in fact relates to bread only and it has nothing to do with cakes and the learned Single Judge failed to consider the factum of production of cakes by the appellant right from 1997. Ultimately the learned Senior Counsel sought interference in the order impugned in these appeals and according to the learned Senior Counsel the finding of the learned Judge is perverse and capricious. 17. The learned Senior Counsel for the respondents supported the order of the learned Single Judge and contended that temporary injunction being purely an equitable relief to be granted keeping in view the balance of convenience, existence of prima facie case and irreparable injury and as the appellant failed to prove these fundamental factors, the learned single Judge was perfectly correct in rejecting the prayer for injunction. By placing reliance on the certificate dated 2.9.1997 issued by the Assistant Registrar of Trade Marks, Mumbai, the learned Senior Counsel contended that the appellant played fraud on the authorities as in the copy right application they have given intimation that New Hope Industries and Pioneer Bakeries Limited are one and the same and accordingly got the copy right registered. With respect to the trade mark obtained by the appellant for cakes in class 30, learned Senior Counsel submitted that the respondents have already initiated proceedings for rectification and the same is now pending before the Intellectual Property Appellate Tribunal, Chennai. The learned Senior Counsel also took us through the earlier order of this court dated 16.7.2004 rejecting the similar prayer sought by the appellant in O.A.Nos.360 and 361 of 2004 in C.S.No.361 of 2004, which was confirmed in appeal as per judgment dated 1.12.2004 in O.S.A.Nos.267 to 270 of 2004. 18. The action for infringement is a remedy provided by the statute on a registered holder of the trade mark in case of any violation of his right to use his trade mark exclusively for his goods. Therefore when the plaintiff comes to the court with a complaint of infringement by the defendant and if it is found that the defendant is using the plaintiff's trade mark, an injunction will be issued in favour of the plaintiff restraining the defendant from using the trade mark. However Section 34 is an exception to this, inasmuch as registration of trade mark cannot be used against a trader taking shelter under the concept of prior user. Of course prior user must be continuous or not intermittent or seasonal. Therefore prior user assumes significance in an action for infringement. 19. However disposal of suit for injunction often takes time, given the pendency of cases in courts and as such the suit for permanent injunction in respect of infringement of trade mark invariably accompanied by an application for temporary injunction pending disposal of the main suit. The grant of injunction being an equitable remedy provided under the Specific Relief Act is governed by the principles of prima facie case, balance of convenience and irreparable injury. 20. In the case of SEEMA ARSHAD ZAHEER & ORS v. MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER MUMBARI & ORS. (2006(5) Scale 263) the Apex Court laid down the salient principles governing the grant of injunction thus:- 21. In the case of RAMDEV FOOD PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. v. ARVINDBHAI RAMBHAI PATEL & OTHERS (2006(8) Scale 631), the Apex Court considered the question of prima facie case and balance of convenience and held as follows:- 121. Relief by way of interlocutory injunction would be material in a suit for infringement of trade mark. Balance of convenience, however would have a vital role to play. 123. Kerly's Law of Trade Marks and Trade Names, Thirteenth Edition states as under about the general test for grant of an interim injunction. 124. Thus, when a prima facie case is made out and balance of convenience is in favour of the appellant, it may not be necessary to show more than loss of goodwill and reputation to fulfil the condition of irreparable injury. In fact, if the first two pre-requisites are fulfilled, in trade mark actions irreparable loss can be presumed to have taken place. 125. The expression "irreparable injury" is that sense would have established injury which the plaintiff is likely to suffer." 22. Keeping in view the principles laid down by the Supreme Court in the matter of temporary injunction by exercise of discretion we have perused the order of the learned Single Judge impugned in these appeals. 23. The learned single Judge negatived the prayer for injunction mainly on the following reasons:- 24. In view of the rival submissions at the Bar, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the learned single Judge exercised the discretion properly and in accordance with the principles governing the grant of interlocutory injunction. 25. It is an admitted case of the parties that in the year 1989 Mr.V.M.Joseph established the company by name "Pioneer Bakeries Private Limited" in association with the second respondent, Mr.A.Arumugam and two others. In the year 1996, the appellant company was formed by Mr.V.M.Joseph along with Mr.Raja, the Managing Director of the Appellant Company and three others. Similarly in the year 1997 "Milka Nutriments Private Limited was also established. 26. The first respondent herein applied for the trademark "MILKA" under No.513603B in respect of bread in class 30 and obtained the same under the provisions of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 . Similarly the first respondent also obtained the registration of copy rights in the artistic work in the wrapper as per NO.5212 of 1992 in accordance with the provisions of the Copy Rights Act,1957. While so the first respondent found that M/s.New Star Food Products, Kerala were manufacturing and selling bakery products under the trade mark "MILKA". Therefore they filed C.S.No.891 of 1998 before this court against M/s.New Star Food Products for injunction. In the plaint in C.S.No.891 of 1998, the first respondent has stated that they are manufacturing breads under the trade mark "MILKA" and registered the trade mark "MILKA" in respect of bread in class 30. No where it is stated in the plaint that the registration of trade mark "MILKA" as per class 30 for bread covers cakes or other bakery products evident thereby that the first respondent has been manufacturing only breads and their registration was only in respect of breads. 27. The appellant also filed a suit against M/s New Star Food Products in C.S.No.896 of 1998 before this court and in the plaint there is a clear recital that the appellant conceived and adopted the trade mark "MILKA WONDER CAKE" in the year 1989 and they have been using the said trade mark continuously, openly and without any interruption ever since 1989. It is also stated in the plaint that the appellant had applied for registration of the trade mark "WONDER CAKE" and the same is pending before the trade marks Registrar. Both the suits viz., C.S.NO.891 of 1998 and 896 of 1998 were filed by Mr.V.M.Joseph in his capacity as the Managing Director of both the companies. In both the suits injunction was granted as per dated 17.08.1989. The averments in C.S.NO.891 of 1998 and 896 of 1998 prima facie discloses that the appellant has been manufacturing cakes under the trade name "MILKA WONDER CAKE" and the respondents have been manufacturing breads and as such the appellant is the prior user in respect of cakes. As per sale deed of unregistered trade mark and copy right dated 30.11.2000 Mr.V.M.Joseph applied for trade marks "MILKA","MILKA WONDER CAKE" and "WONDER" as per application numbers 759880,732507 and 759879 dated 08.07.1997,30.12.1996 and 08.07.1997 respectively and assigned the said unregistered trade marks in favour of the appellant for consideration and in the said agreement the second respondent admittedly signed as an attesting witness. Such an agreement is legally valid in view of Sec 39 of the Trade Marks Act 1939. 28. Mr.P.S.Raman, learned Senior Counsel argued that the agreement was attested by the second respondent at the instance of Mr.V.M.Joseph and he signed the same without knowing the contents of the document and as such, the learned Senior Counsel contended that the second respondent is not in the know of things so far as the agreement dated 30.11.2000 is concerned. 29. Admittedly the second respondent is also a person involved in the MILKA venture and as all the companies were functioning smoothly, it cannot be said atleast on a prima facie view that the second respondent has signed the document without knowing the contents. The circumstances under which the second respondent signed the document are all matters for evidence during trial but prima facie it has to be accepted that the agreement was executed with the knowledge of the second respondent. 30. Based on the agreement dated 30.11.2000 the appellant obtained registration of the trade marks "MILKA and "WONDER CAKE" in numbers 732507 and 1242328 both in class 30. Under Section 31 of the Trade Marks Act 1999 in all legal proceedings relating to a trade mark registered under this act, the original registration of trade mark and all subsequent assignments and transmissions of the trademark shall be prima facie evidence of the validity thereof. Therefore the registration of trade marks "MILKA" and "WONDER CAKE" in the name of appellant are prima facie evidence of the valid trade marks and the legal presumption could be rebutted only in a proceeding for rectification. We are informed by the learned Senior Counsel for the respondents that they have already initiated proceedings for rectification and the same is now pending. Of course exclusive right obtained by registration cannot operate against the prior user in view of Section 34 of the Trade Marks Act. 31. In the case of Ruston & Hornsby Ltd. v. Zamindara Engineering Co. (AIR 1970 Supreme Court 1649) the Apex Court observed that the action for infringement is a statutory right and it is dependent upon the validity of the registration and subject to other restrictions laid down in Sections 30 , 34 and 35 of the Trade Marks Act. 32. In the present suit Mr.V.M.Joseph the former Managing Director of the first respondent company had sworn to an affidavit where in he had narrated the working arrangement adopted in the respondent's company and in the sister companies and according to the said affidavit the appellant was permitted to manufacture cakes. The affidavit of another director of the first respondent company by name Mr.A.Arumugam having 18% of the share in the company is also on record. According to Mr.A. Arumugam there is no Board resolution of the first respondent company permitting manufacture of cakes. The said deponent also do not support the case of the respondents. Though the second respondent attributed malafides against Mr.V.M.Joseph, nothing is stated about Mr.A.Arumugam and as such prima facie the affidavit of Mr.A. Arumugam has to be taken as correct. 33. In the common counter affidavit filed by the respondents there is a clear admission in para 8 to the effect that though the appellant was granted limited license to use the artistic work "MILKA" in its products viz., bread only, but he was using the same for cakes also. The respondents have also stated in para 30 of the counter that they are having the licence to manufacture cakes with effect from 2004, which is also a pointer to show that the appellant is the prior user of "MILKA" for cakes as evident by the Certificate of Registration as well as the averments in the earlier suit. The main ground of attack of the respondents relates to the so called fraud played by the appellant in getting the registration as according to the respondents, it is only by misrepresenting the fact that the appellant and the first respondent are one and the same, they obtained the registration. However on a perusal of the said communication of the Assistant Registrar of trade mark reveals that the application referred to in the said proceedings relates to No.732507 which was assigned by Mr.V.M.Joseph to the appellants as per agreement dated 30.11.2000 and No.513603 relates to the respondent's company. Prima facie we are satisfied that the appellant is not guilty of false representation since earlier both the companies were managed by the same set of Directors. 34. The Observations as contained in O.A.Nos.360 and 361 of 2004 and O.S.A.Nos.267 to 270 of 2004 were only for deciding the injunction petition and in the judgement in the appeal preferred against the order of the learned Single Judge, the Division Bench in para 7 of the judgment has observed that the finding in the order of the learned single judge is only for the purpose of disposal of the application for the interim prayer and as such the same cannot be relied on in any other proceedings against the appellant. Therefore in view of the judgment dated 1.12.2004 in O.S.A.Nos.267 to 270 of 2004 the finding of learned judge to the effect that the registration now obtained by the appellant does not enable them to get over the inhibition they have pointed out in the earlier orders in the suits filed by the appellant, is clearly unsustainable. 35. In the earlier suits filed by both the parties herein against each other, there is no injunction in favour of either party and those suits are now reported to be posted for trial. 36. The appellant having obtained registration of trade mark, got a statutory right for manufacturing cakes by using the trade mark "MILKA". Therefore prima facie the use of trade mark "MILKA" by the respondents for the manufacture of cakes amounts to infringement. Prima facie we are also satisfied that the marks involved and goods involved are identical. 37. Prima facie case in favour of the appellant as indicated above appears to have been overlooked while exercising the discretion in the matter of interlocutory injunction. 38. We are conscious of the legal position that the appellate court normally will not interfere with the discretionary order of the trial court unless such orders are made totally disregarding the salient principles governing the law of injunction. 39. In the case of Wander Ltd. v. Antox India (P) Ltd. , (1990 (Supp) SCC 727) the Supreme Court in para 14 of the judgement observed thus: 40. In the case of RAMDEV FOOD PRODUCTS v. ARVINDBHAI RAMBHAI PATEL (2006 (8) scale 631) the Apex Court considered the issue regarding the appellate court's jurisdiction to interfere with the discretionary order of the trial Judge and held thus:- 41. In 2006(5) Scale 263 cited supra the Apex Court pointed out the instances where the Appellate Court would be justified in interfering with the discretionary order of the trial Judge and held as follows:- 42. Having considered the pleadings and documents on record and the respective contentions of the parties, we are convinced that the trial court failed to consider the pleadings and documents in their proper perspective and as such there was an improper exercise of discretion warranting interference in these appeals. 43. We venture to point out the materials produced by the appellant to show the prima facie case in their favour. (g) The finding of the learned Single Judge in the interlocutory application in the suit filed by the appellant herein cannot be relied on now, in view of the observations of the Division Bench in O.S.A.Nos.266 to 270 of 2007 to the effect that those observations are only for the purpose of deciding the interlocutory application and the same cannot be relied on subsequently for any purpose. 44. The learned Single Judge rejected the prayer for injunction mainly on two grounds. 45. Prima facie, the reasoning given by the learned single Judge while answering the two points referred to above appears to be factually incorrect. The licence agreement dated 1.11.1996 was confined to bread alone. The said agreement produced in page 41 of the paper book in volume 3 shows that the agreement was only for copy right for the artistic work "MILKA" for breads and the agreement is silent with regard to copy right for the word "MILKA" for cakes. Trade mark "MILKA" was not the subject matter of the said agreement. Similarly the said agreement do not make mention of cakes. 46. The other contention with regard to misrepresentation made before the Registrar of Trade Marks by using alias name loses it significance for the reason that both the companies were managed by Mr.V.M.Joseph during the material time. The application made by both the appellant as well as first respondent finds place in the said certificate dated 2.9.1997 which is evident from the registration of trade mark obtained by both the appellant and the first respondent. 47. 52. As observed by the Apex Court in the judgment reported in 2002(3) S.C.C. 65 ( Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhai Shah,) . Refusal to grant injunction in spite of the availability of facts, which are prima facie established by overwhelming evidence and material available on record justifying the grant thereof, occasion a failure of justice and such injury to the plaintiff would not be capable of being undone at a later stage. 48. We do not wish to comment more about the validity of the appellant's trade mark in the present appeals as it would have a bearing on the same issue, which is stated to be pending before the Intellectual Board in the proceedings initiated by the respondents for rectification. 49. While considering the question of balance of convenience, the possible confusion that may cause in the mind of an ordinary person of average memory and imperfect recollection along with the possibility of difficulties and loss that may be caused to a party complaining infringement, has to be taken note of. In the case on hand, the product is cake and it will not be possible for an ordinary person to identify a particular product as both the products are found to be more or less identical. Therefore it would definitely cause confusion among the customers. The appellant has stated in so many words about the investment and the amount spent by him for sales promotion. Considering the prima facie evidence produced by the appellant and the balance of convenience, we are convinced that the appellant is entitled for an order of injunction pending disposal of the suit. 50. In view of the reasons given above, we are of the considered view that the learned Single Judge over looked the relevant documents produced in the matter with regard to the prayer for injunction and as such failed to exercise the discretion in accordance with the principles regulating the grant of injunction by way of interlocutory injunction, pending disposal of the suit. Therefore a case for our interference is made out in the matter and as such the appeals deserve to be allowed. 51. We are concerned with the interest of both parties during the interlocutory stage pending disposal of the main suit. Therefore while granting the relief of injunction in favour of the appellant as prayed for in their applications for interlocutory injunction, we direct the appellant to deposit a sum of Rs.20 lakhs every year to the credit of the suit in C.S.No.504 of 2007 and the first of such deposit has to be made on or before 15.2.2008. If for any reason the suit is pending beyond 2008, the appellant shall deposit at the rate of Rs.20 lakhs on or before 15th February every year and such amount has to be deposited in Fixed Deposit in Indian Bank High Court Branch initially for a period of three years. The appellant shall also maintain true and correct accounts of the transactions in respect of their sale of cakes and such accounts shall be produced once in three months before the trial court. 52. We are also informed that the earlier suits filed by both the parties are now ripe for trial. It is in the interest of both the parties that the present suit also to be tagged with the earlier suits and to be tried by the learned Single Judge to avoid any conflicting decisions in the matter. We request the learned single Judge to dispose the suits as expeditiously as possible and preferably by the end of December, 2008. 53. We make it clear that the finding given on facts as above, are only for the purpose of deciding the issue regarding grant of interlocutory injunction and those findings will not come in the way of the learned Single Judge to decide the suit along with the two earlier suits on its own merits without in any way being influenced by the observations made above. 54. In the result, all the appeals are allowed by setting aside the order dated 7.9.2007 of the learned Single Judge and consequently O.A.Nos.708 to 710 of 2007 in C.S.No.504 of 2007 are allowed as prayed for subject to the above observations. No costs.