DATED : 23rd DECEMBER, 2022. P. C. :- 2021 and ex-gratia payment to forgo/waive all her
 claims and demands. (6) The Respondents No.1 upon acceptance of
 resignation letter, agrees to co-operate and fill up all
 requisite Forms under PF Scheme and issue
 Experience Certificate and relieving letter to 2/4 Megha 4_wp_9347_2022.doc

 Petitioner. The Petitioner shall complete the exit
 formalities in all respect and hand over charge to
 Ms. Mitali Mistry. (7) The Respondents No.1 had already deposited
 monthly PF Contributions of the Petitioner in her PF
 Account when salary was paid to her and shall co-
 operate with the Petitioner for withdrawal of
 accumulated Provident Fund amount and/or
 Transfer of said amount to other nominated PF
 Account as disclosed by the Petitioner. (8) The Petitioner and the Respondents in view of the
 Consent Terms hereby clearly agree that all pending
 issues/disputes have been settled by and between
 themselves amicably to their entire satisfaction. (9) That none of the parties to the present Petition shall
 in any manner whatsoever file any proceedings
 against each other and/or against any of the parties
 in respect of any dispute, adverse claim, grievances,
 complaint before Court of law anywhere in India.
 (10) The parties agree that this Consent Terms shall be
 filed in the pending Writ Petition and parties agree
 that the present Writ Petitioner be disposed off
 accordingly. (11) The Petitioner assures and undertakes to withdraw
 the Complaint (ULP) No.35 of 2022 filed by her 3/4 Megha 4_wp_9347_2022.doc

 before the Hon'ble Industrial Court, Bandra within 7
 working days of Court (excluding Court vacations)
 from the date of execution of these Consent Terms. 2. The consent terms are signed by Respondent No.4 on her

 own behalf and on behalf of Respondent Nos.1 to 3. The authority

 letter given to her by Respondent Nos.1 to 3 to sign the consent terms

 is placed on record. Same is marked as 'X' for identification. The

 consent terms are also signed by the Petitioner. The Petitioner and

 Respondent No.4 are identified by their respective counsel. The

 Petitioner and Respondent No.4, who are present before the Court have

 identified their signatures on the consent terms and have confirmed the

 contents of the consent terms. The consent terms are taken on record

 and marked 'X-1' for identification. 3. The Petition stands disposed of in terms of the consent

 terms.