The petitioner-accused is before this Court seeking

grant of anticipatory bail in Crime No.85/2022 of CEN

Crime Police Station, registered for the offences

punishable under Sections 66(d) and 66(c) of Information

Technology Act, (for short, 'the Act') and Section 153-A of

Indian Penal Code (for short 'IPC'), on the basis of the first

information lodged by the informant-Sri. Pushparaj B.N. 2. Heard Sri. Dhananjay Kumar, learned Counsel

for the petitioner and Sri. K.Rahul Rai, learned High Court

Government Pleader for the respondent-State. Perused

the materials placed on record. CRL.P No. 10360 of 2022 3. Learned Counsel for the petitioner submitted

that the petitioner is the sole accused. He is innocent and

law abiding citizen. He has not committed any offence as

alleged. He has been falsely implicated in the matter

without any basis. He is having reasonable apprehension

of being arrested by the Police. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner further

submitted that the petitioner is the authorized user of the

website by name "Varthabharathi". He published news in

Malayalam in News 18.Com on 04.09.2022, which is

translated and telecasted in Kannada on 05.09.2022. None

of the provisions invoked are applicable to the facts of the

case. The petitioner is not running a fake channel nor

telecasted any fake news. But on the other hand, such

news was telecasted widely in all the news channels. The

petitioner is not required for custodial interrogation. He is

the permanent resident of the address mentioned in the -4- CRL.P No. 10360 of 2022 cause title to the petition and is ready and willing to abide

by any of the conditions that would be imposed by this

Court. Hence, he prays to allow the petition in the interest

of justice. 5. Per contra, learned High Court Government

Pleader opposing the petition submitted that serious

allegations are made against the petitioner for having

committed the offence. He created a fake website in the

name and style "Varthabharathi', it was in fact being run

authorisedly by the complainant. By using the fake

website, fake news were being telecasted, which leads to

disturbance of the communal harmony at the sensitive

areas. In this regard, a detailed investigation is to be

conducted by the Investigating Officer. He is absconding

since the date of the registration of the case. There are

prima facie materials in support of the allegations. If the

petitioner is granted anticipatory bail, he may never turn

up before the Investigating Officer and he may abscond or -5- CRL.P No. 10360 of 2022 may commit similar offences, threaten or tamper the

prosecution witnesses. Therefore, the petitioner is not

entitled for grant of anticipatory bail. Hence, he prays for

dismissal of the petition. 6. In view of the rival contentions urged by the

learned counsel for both the parties, the point that would

arise for my consideration is: My answer to the above point is in 'Affirmative' for

the following: 7. Serious allegation made against the petitioner

that he has telecasted fake news through the fake

website. The allegations are of serious nature, which

requires detailed investigation. However, at this stage,

nothing is placed on record to contend that the petitioner -6- CRL.P No. 10360 of 2022 is required for interrogation. However, if the petitioner is

required for custodial interrogation, the investigating

officer will be at liberty to seek for the same with the prior

permission of the jurisdictional Magistrate. Therefore, I am

of the opinion that the petitioner may be granted

anticipatory bail subject to conditions, which will take care

of the apprehension expressed by the learned High Court

Government Pleader that the petitioner may abscond or

may tamper or threaten the prosecution witnesses. 8. Accordingly, I answer the above point in the

affirmative and proceed to pass the following: b. The petitioner shall not commit similar
 offences; c. The petitioner shall appear before the
 Investigating Officer or the court as and
 when required; d. The petitioner shall not threaten or tamper
 the prosecution witnesses; and

 e. Investigating Officer is at liberty to subject
 the petitioner for interrogation, in case of
 necessity, with prior permission of the
 jurisdictional Magistrate. If in case, the petitioner violates any of the
 conditions as stated above, the prosecution will -8- CRL.P No. 10360 of 2022 be at liberty to move the Trial Court seeking
 cancellation of bail. On furnishing the sureties by the petitioner, the Trial

Court is at liberty to direct the Investigating Officer to

verify the correctness of the address and authenticity of

the documents furnished by the petitioner and the sureties

and a report may be called for in that regard, which is to

be submitted by the Investigating Officer within 5 days.

The Trial Court on satisfaction, may proceed to accept the

sureties for the purpose of releasing the petitioner on bail. Sd/- JUDGE

MKM List No.: 1 Sl No.: 54