MEHINDER SINGH SULLAR , J.(oral)

 Petitioner-Rajinder Sharma son of Amar Nath, has preferred

 the present petition for the grant of anticipatory bail in a case registered

 against him along with his other co-accused, vide FIR No.589 dated

 17.12.2012, for the commission of offences punishable under Sections

 406, 419, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B IPC, by the police of Police

 Station Ambala Cantt., invoking the provisions of Section 438 Cr.P.C. 2. After hearing the learned counsel for the petitioner, going

 through the record with his valuable help and after deep consideration of

 the entire matter, to my mind, there is no merit in the instant petition in

 this context. 3. Ex facie, the argument of the learned counsel that, since the

 petitioner was falsely implicated in this case, so, he is entitled to the

 concession of anticipatory bail, sans merit. 4. The prosecution claimed that one Sunil Kumar son of Mohan

 Lal, impersonating himself to be Neeraj Kumar son of Mohan Lal, Rani Seema S 2013.07.31 16:31 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document High Court Chandigarh CRM No.M-23969 of 2013 2 prepared and forged certain documents(driving license, ration card and

 certificate of place of his working etc.), submitted the same as genuine

 and obtained a car loan from Allahabad Bank, Ambala Cantt. Petitioner-

 Rajinder Sharma illegally identified (wrong person)him as Neeraj Kumar

 and stood guarantor for him against the loan and executed fake-deed of

 guarantee after accepting an amount of Rs.20,000/-. It has been

 specifically mentioned that accused Neeraj Kumar is a habitual offender

 and has also obtained loan from Allahabad Bank, Ambala City Branch,

 by preparing and forging the documents. 5. Meaning thereby, the petitioner is a member of the gang,

 who used to prepare false and fabricated documents, for the purpose of

 illegally obtaining the loan. In the instant case, there are direct

 allegations that the petitioner has illegally identified Sunil Kumar as

 Neeraj Kumar, after obtaining illegal gratification of Rs.20,000/- and

 prepared fake-deed of guarantee. 6. Keeping in view the seriousness, nature and gravity of the

 offences, to me, the custodial interrogation of the petitioner is essential in

 this relevant context. If he is allowed the benefit of anticipatory bail,

 then the police will be deprived from recovering the amount, to unearth,

 to remove the curtain from, the scam and involvement of the petitioner in

 similar cases, which would naturally adversely affect and weaken the

 case of the prosecution. 7. Moreover, it is now well settled principle of law that the

 order of anticipatory bail cannot be allowed to circumvent normal

 procedure of arrest and effective investigation by the police. The Court Rani Seema S 2013.07.31 16:31 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document High Court Chandigarh CRM No.M-23969 of 2013 3 has also to see that the investigation is in the province of the police and

 an order of anticipatory bail should not operate as an in-road into the

 statutory investigational powers of the police, in exercising the judicial

 discretion in granting the anticipatory bail. Sequelly, the Court should

 not be unmindful of the difficulties likely to be faced by the investigating

 agency and the public interest likely to be affected thereby. Therefore,

 keeping in view the seriousness of the allegations for the commission of

 offences in question, to me, no extra-ordinary ground, much less cogent,

 to grant anticipatory bail to the petitioner is made out in the obtaining

 circumstances of the case. 8. In the light of aforesaid reasons and without commenting

 further anything on merits, lest it may prejudice the case of either side

 during the course of trial of the main case, as there is no merit, therefore,

 the instant petition for anticipatory bail filed by the petitioner is hereby

 dismissed as such. Needless to mention that nothing observed, here-in-above,

 would reflect, in any manner, on merits of the main case, as the same has

 been so recorded for a limited purpose of deciding the present petition for

 anticipatory bail.