, while on patrolling duty near Bhootnath Road, he

 received a secret information that in an under-construction park near

 T.V. Tower, some miscreants have congregated for committing some

 occurrence. This information was communicated to the Superior

 Officers and a raid was conducted. On seeing the police party, about

 5-6 persons, who had assembled there, began fleeing away. However,

 they were apprehended by the police party who disclosed their names

 as Lal Babu Thakur (Cr. Appeal No. 72 of 2017), Vikash Kumar (Cr.

 Appeal No. 239 of 2017), Sanjeet Kumar Sharma (Cr. Appeal No. 587

 of 2017), Abhijay Pandey (Cr. Appeal No. 48 of 2017), Kallu @

 Rajan (Cr. Appeal No. 318 of 2017) and Dhiraj Kumar. In front of two independent witnesses viz. Vijay

 Kumar and Kavi Kumar, who have not been examined at the trial, the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.72 of 2017 dt.29-01-2018 5/19 aforesaid persons were searched. From the possession of appellant

 Sanjeet Kumar Sharma (Cr. Appeal No. 587 of 2017), rupees forty

 thousands in cash, four bundles of fake currency notes containing two

 genuine notes on either side of the bundles and a mobile telephone

 was recovered. From the possession of appellant Vikash Kumar (Cr.

 Appeal No. 239 of 2017), a country made pistol, cartridges and two

 bundles of fake currency notes with genuine notes on each side and a

 mobile set were also recovered. From the possession of appellant Lal

 Babu Thakur (Cr. Appeal No. 72 of 2017), a country made pistol,

 cartridges and mobile telephone as well as six bundles of fake

 currency notes were recovered. From the possession of appellant

 Abhijay Pandey (Cr. Appeal No. 48 of 2017), only one mobile

 telephone was recovered, whereas from the possession of appellant

 Kallu @ Rajan (Cr. Appeal No. 318 of 2017), one country made

 pistol, cartridges and mobile set were recovered. Two motorcycles

 were also found parked at the place of occurrence. No plausible

 explanation was given by the appellants for assembling at that place

 and for being in possession of the aforesaid items. During the course of search, the appellant Lal

 Babu Thakur admitted his guilt and stated before P.W. 3 that he is part

 of the gang which cheats people by promising the doubling of

 currency notes. The miscreants/appellants had congregated for
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.72 of 2017 dt.29-01-2018 6/19 committing the same crime on the day of the occurrence. Appellant

 Kallu @ Rajan confessed before the informed (P.W. 3) that earlier

 also, an occurrence was committed, whereby one innocent person was

 divested of his money. The firearms and other materials recovered

 during the search were seized and a seizure list was prepared on which

 the two independent witnesses, referred to above, put their signatures.

 On the basis of the aforesaid self statement by the informant (P.W. 3),

 Agamkuan P.S. Case No. 383 of 2014 dated 28.09.2014 was instituted

 for the offences under Sections 399 , 402 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 489(a) , 489(b) , 489(c) , 489(e) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25 (1-B)

 a, 26 and 35 of the Arms Act . The police, after investigation, submitted

 charge-sheet whereupon cognizance was taken and the case was

 committed to the Court of Sessions for trial. The Trial Court, after examining ten witnesses

 on behalf of the prosecution and four on behalf of the defence,

 convicted and sentenced the appellants as aforesaid. However, by the

 aforesaid judgment, the appellants were acquitted of the charges under Sections 399 , 402 , 420 , 471 , 34 of the Indian Penal Code for paucity

 of any evidence in that regard. In order to appreciate the contentions of the

 appellants, it would be necessary to refer to the relevant part of the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.72 of 2017 dt.29-01-2018 7/19 deposition of the witnesses offered on behalf of the prosecution. During the course of trial, one of the accused

 Dhiraj Kumar Chaudhary died and therefore his case abated. Nagendra Pal (P.W. 3), who is the informant of

 this case, has supported the prosecution version and has deposed

 before the Trial Court that on the date of the occurrence i.e. on

 28.09.2014, he was posted as Sub-inspector of Police in Agamkuan

 Police station. While on patrolling duty along with three constables of

 the Homeguard, he learnt that some miscreants had assembled in an

 under construction park near TV Tower. This information was

 provided to him at about 7 O' clock in the morning. The information

 regarding the aforesaid congregation of the miscreants was given to

 the Superior Police Officers and the accused persons were caught by

 the police party. The appellants were searched in presence of two

 local witnesses. He has further stated that there was no gate in the

 park and the park was under construction. The miscreants, on seeing

 the police party, had tried to run away but were apprehended. The

 aforesaid prosecution witness has denied the suggestion that appellant

 Abhijay Pandey was arrested while going to Hajipur on motorcycle.

 On cross examination, he has specified that from the possession of

 appellant Lal Babu Thakur, nothing was recovered which could be

 used for printing fake notes. He has also admitted that he has no
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.72 of 2017 dt.29-01-2018 8/19 training for identifying fake notes. What is of relevance in his deposition is that he

 has stated that bundles of fake currency notes were arranged in such a

 way that on both sides of the bundles, there were hundred rupee notes

 and in between, plain sheet of paper in the shape of currency note,

 was kept. From the deposition of the aforesaid prosecution

 witness, what comes to the fore is that, what were being called as

 bundles of fake currency notes were only plain sheets cut and

 arranged into the shape of the currency notes over which two genuine

 notes were kept on either side. For all practical purposes therefore, those plain

 sheets of paper between two genuine currency notes could not have

 been passed off to anybody as fake currency notes. Keshav Kishore Singh (P.W. 1) was part of the

 raiding team who has deposed that he was informed by Mobile Duty

 No. 13 to reach near TV Tower at Bhootnath road. When he went

 there, he found that constable Khurshid Alam (P.W. 4), constable

 Tipu Kumar Raja (P.W. 6), constable Anurag Kumar (P.W.2)

 constable Sunil Kumar (P.W. 5) and the informant (P.W. 3) were

 present. All of them raided the open space inside the under-

 construction park. From there, the appellants, who were trying to run
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.72 of 2017 dt.29-01-2018 9/19 away, were arrested. All of them were searched and from their

 possession incriminating materials as stated by P.W. 3 were

 recovered. He has also stated that the bundles of fake notes were

 arranged in a manner where two genuine notes were kept on the either

 side of the bundles and inside the bundles were plain sheets of paper.

 He has admitted that the search was made in presence of two

 independent witnesses viz. Vijay Kumar and Kavi Kumar and the

 seizure list was prepared by P.W. 3. Vijay Kumar and Kavi Kumar,

 seizure list witnesses were present in the park from before. He has

 further made a vague statement that when he reached the place of

 occurrence, search was going on but he did not specify as to who was

 being searched and in what connection. He has, however reiterated the

 same items as having been recovered from the appellants, what has

 been stated in the F.I.R by the informant (P.W.3). Similar statements have been made by P.Ws, 2,

 4, 5 and 6. All the aforesaid persons have admitted that from the

 possession of the appellants, nothing was recovered which could be

 said to be used for printing fake notes. None of the aforesaid

 witnesses had any training for identifying the fake notes. From the deposition of aforesaid witnesses, it

 become apparent that in the bundles of so called fake notes, plain

 sheets of paper were arranged and that those bundles were not sent for
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.72 of 2017 dt.29-01-2018 10/ 19 any forensic examination. Upasana Kumari (P.W. 7) is the Investigating

 Officer of the case who has deposed that the charge of investigation

 was handed over to her on 28.09.2014. She claimed to have recorded

 the confessional statement of appellant Lal Babu Thakur in presence

 of the S.H.O and has stated before the Trial Court that appellant Lal

 Babu Thakur had supported the version of the occurrence as was

 stated in the F.I.R by P.W. 3. Similarly, the confessional statement of

 appellant Kallu @ Rajan was also recorded by her. She had taken the

 permission of the Trial Court for examination of the arms and has

 proved Exhibit- 2, which is the application, seeking permission for

 getting the arms examined/inspected. The firearm weapons which are said to have

 been recovered from some of the appellants were sent for examination

 to Sergeant Major and she had also received the report of the Sergeant

 Major. The sanction for prosecution of the appellants under the Arms

 Act was accorded by the District Magistrate and she, before the Trial

 Court, proved the letter of sanction. In cross examination, she has

 admitted of having received twelve bundles of fake currency notes

 and in all such bundles, there were two genuine notes on either end

 and in between, there were plain sheets of paper kept inside the

 currency notes. She has also admitted that the aforesaid fake currency
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.72 of 2017 dt.29-01-2018 11/ 19 notes were not sent for any examination because from bare eyes only

 it appeared to be fake. The fake currency notes have been exhibited as

 Exhibit-1 to 1K. The aforesaid P.W. 7 has also proved the recovery of

 genuine currency notes from the possession of the appellants. The

 fake currency notes were kept in plastic wrappers and were exhibited

 as material Exhibit-3 to 3C. The notes were brought to the Court by

 tying it in plastic wrapper. The firearm weapons were marked as

 Exhibit-B and B/6 and were signed by the Sergeant Major, which was

 proved by her. What is of relevance here is that the aforesaid

 prosecution witness has clearly stated that the bundles of fake

 currency notes which were seized, have neither been signed by the

 appellants or the seizure list witnesses and numbers of the notes have

 also not been entered in the seizure list. She has also categorically

 stated that no weapon was recovered from the possession of Sanjeet

 Kumar Sharma and but for a mobile telephone, nothing was recovered

 from the appellant Abhijay Pandey. Appellant Vikash Kumar and appellant Lal

 Babu Thakur had examined themselves as defence witness Nos. 1 and

 3 whereas one of the independent seizure list witness Kavi Kumar has

 been examined as defence witness No. 2. It would be relevant to

 briefly refer to their deposition. Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.72 of 2017 dt.29-01-2018 12/ 19 Appellant Vikas Kumar (D.W.1) has deposed

 before the Trial Court that he was brought to Agamkuan Police

 Station on 27.09.2014 at about 10 O' clock in the night after blind-

 folding him. Appellant Abhijay Pandey, one of his friends, was also

 with him. Both of them were locked inside Agamkuan Police Station.

 Abhijay Pandey is stated to have been arrested at Hajipur Station at

 about 10-11 P.M. He, according to D.W. 1 was going to his maternal

 uncle's place at Chapra. After they were arrested, their mobile

 telephones and currency notes worth Rs. 20,000/- were taken by the

 police party. By blind folding them, they were taken to some known

 destination. From the vehicle in which they were made to board, there

 where 6 to 7 persons from before. Similarly, Kavi Kumar (D.W. 2) has stated that

 he had sworn an affidavit that on 28.09.2014, while he was crossing

 through the under construction park near TV Tower at about 7:30

 A.M in the morning, he was called by the police party and was made

 to sign on a blank piece of paper. In his presence, nobody was arrested

 nor any incriminating articles were recovered from anyone of them.

 Though D.W. 2 has identified his signature but he has not supported

 the prosecution version and has only stated that nobody was arrested

 and nothing was recovered in his presence. The father of appellant Vikash Kumar has been
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.72 of 2017 dt.29-01-2018 13/ 19 examined as D.W. 3. His name is Om Prakash and he has stated

 before the Trial Court that he has one son viz. Vikash Kumar who is

 eighteen years of age and his daughter is around twenty two years of

 age. His son is student of B.S.c 1st year and runs a mobile shop at his

 residence which is run under the name and style of Ma Laxmi

 Communication. On 26.09.2014, his son had come out of his house at

 Doriganj for going to Chapra at about 9 O' clock and was going along

 with Abhijay Pandey who was going to his maternal uncle's place but

 in the meantime, his son and Abhijay Pandey were abducted/arrested

 which could be learnt by him only later. Appellant Lal Babu Thakur who has deposed as

 D.W. 4, has stated that he had withdrawn money from his bank

 account number 140010032213 at Dena Bank for the purposes of

 purchasing tyres but he has been falsely made accused in this case. The Trial Court on finding no material to

 substantiate the charges under Sections 399 , 402 , 420 and 471 / 34 of

 the Indian Penal Code against the appellants, acquitted them of such

 charges. From the conspectus of the entire materials on

 record, this Court is of the view that from the possession of the

 appellant Abhijay Pandey (Cr. Appeal No. 48 of 2017) but for a

 mobile telephone, nothing was recovered whereas from the possession
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.72 of 2017 dt.29-01-2018 14/ 19 of appellant Sanjeet Kumar Sharma (Cr. Appeal No. 587 of 2017), no

 firearm weapon was recovered. So far as recovery of fake currency notes are

 concerned, the same could not be established beyond all reasonable

 doubts. I say so for the reason that according to the admitted case of

 the prosecution, the bundles of fake currency notes were found

 containing plain sheets of paper on which two genuine notes were tied

 on either side of each bundle. Even those sheets of paper were not

 sent for any examination and none of the witnesses on behalf of the

 prosecution claim to be trained in identifying fake notes. The I.O. of

 this case viz. P.W. 7 has stated that from bare look of those notes, it

 appeared to be fake and therefore, there was no necessity of sending

 those bundles for any examination. It would, in the aforesaid context

 be necessary to know as to what constitutes the offences under Sections 489C and 489E of the Indian Penal Code. For the sake of completeness, the aforesaid two

 provisions of the Indian Penal Code are being extracted for ready

 reference.:- On a bare analysis of the ingredients of the

 aforesaid two Sections of the Indian Penal Code , for prosecuting any

 person under the aforesaid Sections, it is of utmost necessity that he
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.72 of 2017 dt.29-01-2018 16/ 19 be found in the possession of any forged or counterfeit currency note

 or bank-note, knowing or having reasons to believe the same to be

 forged or counterfeit and intending to use the same as genuine or that,

 it may be used as genuine. A plain sheet of paper cannot be used for

 cheating anybody or for passing it off as currency note. Since,

 admittedly nothing was recovered from the possession of the

 appellants which could be used for printing counterfeit notes and the

 appellants having been acquitted of the charges under Sections 420 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code, it can safely be presumed that no

 evidence could be collected against the appellants for having

 committing forgery for the purposes of cheating or for using as

 genuine any forged document or electronic record. Thus, for the

 application of Section 489C and 489E of the Indian Penal Code,

 currency notes are required to be fake and not plain sheets of paper,

 which can never be misunderstood as currency notes. The intention to

 use the same as genuine is lacking because of those bundles being of

 plain sheets of paper. Without such intention and without such so

 called fake notes being in the nature of currency notes, the offences

 under Sections 489C and 489E of the Indian Penal Code cannot be

 said to have been made out. For prosecuting someone for possession

 and making of fake currency notes, the so called currency notes must
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.72 of 2017 dt.29-01-2018 17/ 19 resemble the genuine currency notes or bank-notes. Apart from this, the evidence with respect to

 keeping those seized fake currency notes in any safe custody or

 Malkhana is also blurred/missing. According to the P.W. 7 (I.O.), the fake

 currency notes were wrapped in a plastic bundle and were brought to

 Court. There was no mark on the aforesaid notes nor did it contain the

 signature of the appellants or of the seizure list witnesses. In that view of the matter, there is no evidence

 that those bundles were only recovered from the possession of the

 appellants, which were exhibited before the Trial Court. Non-marking

 of the aforesaid bundles creates a doubt about the same having been

 recovered from the possession of the appellants. Thus, finding that no firearm weapon or fake

 bundles of currency notes were recovered, the appellant Abhijay

 Pandey(Cr. Appeal No. 48 of 2017) is acquitted of all the charges. Similarly, in the event of the offences under Sections 489C and 489E of the Indian Penal Code not having been

 made out as against other appellants, all of them are acquitted of the

 charges under the aforesaid Sections. Since, no weapon has been recovered from the

 possession of appellant Sanjeet Kumar Sharma (Cr. Appeal No. 587
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.72 of 2017 dt.29-01-2018 18/ 19 of 2017), he too is acquitted of the charges. So far as other appellants are concerned, there is

 nothing on record to disprove the possession of firearm weapons

 which were recovered from them. As such, as against appellants, Lal

 Babu Thakur (Cr. Appeal No. 72 of 2017), Vikash Kumar(Cr. Appeal

 No. 239 of 2017) and Kallu @ Rajan (Cr. Appeal No. 318 of 2017),

 their convictions under Sections 25 (1-B) a, 26 and 35 of the Arms Act are sustained. However, considering the circumstances of the case and

 young age of the aforesaid appellants, this Court is of the view that

 interest of justice would be met if their sentences under Sections 25 (1-

 B) a, 26 and 35 of the Arms Act are reduced to the period which they

 have already undergone in custody. For the aforesaid discussions, the appeals of the

 appellant Sanjeet Kumar Sharma (Cr. Appeal No. 587 of 2017) and

 appellant Abhijay Pandey (Cr. Appeal No. 48 of 2017) succeed and

 the aforesaid appellants are acquitted of all the charges. The conviction of the other appellants viz. Lal

 Babu Thakur (Cr. Appeal No. 72 of 2017), Vikash Kumar (Cr. Appeal

 No. 239 of 2017) and Kallu @ Rajan (Cr. Appeal No. 318 of 2017)

 under all other Sections of the Indian Penal Code are set aside but

 their conviction under Sections 25 (1-B) a, 26 and 35 of the Arms Act are sustained. However, their sentences are reduced to the period of
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.72 of 2017 dt.29-01-2018 19/ 19 custody which they have already undergone. All the appellants are in custody. They are directed to be released forthwith, if not

 wanted in any other case. A copy of the judgment be sent to the

 Superintendent of Jail for compliance, record and needful. (Ashutosh Kumar, J)
Shageer/-