APPEALS UNDER SECTION 374 2 OF THE CODE OF CRIMINAL 
 PROCEDURE 1973 1. Criminal Appeal No. 2/2004 filed by Kurukshetra Sena,
 Criminal Appeal No.22/2004 filed by Narendra Kumar Jain,
 Criminal Appeal No.43 filed by Rawalmal Jain and Criminal
 Appeal No.52/2004 filed by Narsingh Lal Maheshwari, Babulal
 Inadi and T.Appal Suri are arising out of the judgment of
 conviction & order of sentence dated 10.12.2003 passed by the
 Special Judge under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes 
 (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 , Jagdalpur, in Sessions
 Trial No.107/2002, therefore, they are being disposed of by
 this common judgment. 2. The aforesaid criminal appeals are directed against the
judgment of conviction & order of sentence dated 10.12.2003
passed by the Special Judge under the Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 ,
Jagdalpur, in Sessions Trial No.107/2002, whereby &
whereunder learned Special Judge after holding appellant
Narendra Kumar Jain guilty for the offence punishable under
Sections 489 B and 489 C read with Section 120B of the Indian
Penal Code sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 
three years & to pay fine of Rs.10,000/-, in default of
payment of fine to further undergo rigorous imprisonment for
nine months and rigorous imprisonment for two years and six
months & to pay fine of Rs.6000/-, in default of payment of
fine to further undergo rigorous imprisonment for nine months
and appellants Narsingh Lal, Kurushetra Sena, Babulal Inadi,
Rawalmal Jain and T.Appal Suri guilty for the offence
punishable under Sections 489 C read with Section 120B of the
Indian Penal Code and each of them have sentenced to undergo 
rigorous imprisonment for two years and six months & to pay
fine of Rs.7000/-, in default of payment of fine to further
undergo rigorous imprisonment for nine months, respectively. 3. Conviction is impugned on the ground that without there
 being any evidence, especially conscious possession of fake
 currency notes with intent to use the same as genuine, the
 Court below has convicted and sentenced the appellants as
 aforementioned the thereby committed illegality. 4. Case of the prosecution, in brief, is that Renu (PW-4)
 working as Gangman in Railway Department posted at Tokapal 
 was paid his salary by the department containing currency
 note of Rs.500/-, he contacted to appellant Narendra Jain for
 change of Rs.500/-, appellant Narendra gave 5 currency notes
 of Rs.100/- denomination. After taking the same, Renu (PW-4)
 went to chicken shop and paid Rs.100/-, then chicken
 shopkeeper asked to show other currency notes and after
 perusing the same, shopkeeper told that currency notes are
 not genuine and are counterfeit. Other persons also present
 there. Station House In charge Frejerpur G.N.Singh (PW-7)
 was on patrolling near railway station, Tokapal. Renu (PW-4)
 made a complaint relating to the aforesaid fake currency
 notes and lodged dehati nalishi vide Ex.P/15. 5 currency
 notes were seized from Renu Ex.P/17. During the course of
 investigation, investigating officer interrogated appellant
 Narendra Kumar Jain and seized 13 currency notes of Rs.500/-,
 46 currency notes of Rs.100/-, 12 currency notes of Rs.50/-
 and another 4 currency notes of Rs.100/- vide Ex.P/19. He
 also seized 15 currency notes of Rs.500/-, 103 currency notes
 of Rs.100/-, 5 currency notes of Rs.50/-, 4 currency notes of
 Rs.10/-, 2 slips containing names of the persons, another 5
 currency notes of Rs.100/- from accused Narsingh Lal vide
 Ex.P/20. Investigating officer also seized 5 currency notes
 of Rs.500/-, 24 currency notes of Rs.100/-, 3 currency notes
 of Rs.50/-, another 2 currency notes of Rs.100/- and 4
 currency notes of Rs.50/- from accused K.K.Sinha vide
 Ex.P/21. During the course of investigation, investigating
 officer seized 3 currency notes of Rs.500/-, 19 currency
 notes of Rs.100/-, 6 currency notes of Rs.10/- and another
 currency note of Rs.500/- & Rs.100 from accused Rawalmal vide
 Ex.P/22. Likewise, investigating officer seized 13 currency
 notes of Rs.500/-, 61 currency notes of Rs.100/-, one
 currency notes of Rs.50/-, 9 currency notes of Rs.10/- and 5
 currency notes of Rs.100/- from accused T.R.Suri vide
 Ex.P/23. Investigating officer also seized 19 currency notes
 of Rs.500/-, 100 currency notes of Rs.100/-, 96 currency
 notes of Rs.100/-, 100 currency notes of Rs.50/-, 19 currency
 notes of Rs.50/-, 39 currency notes of Rs.10/-, another 3
 currency notes of Rs.100/-, 4 currency notes of Rs.50/- and 4
 slips containing names of some persons from accused Babulal 
 vide Ex.P/23. F.I.R. on zero number was registered vide
 Ex.P/16. Finally F.I.R. was lodged vide Ex.P/3. Spot map
 was prepared vide Ex.P/25. Accused persons were arrested
 vide arrest memos Exs.P/26 to P/32. Seized currency notes
 were sent for examination to General Manager, Currency Note
 Press, NasiK Road, Maharashtra vide Ex.P/33. Vide reports
 Exs.P/34 and P/35, 6 currency notes of Rs.100/- and 3
 currency notes of Rs.50/- were found same numbers and were 
 counterfeit. 5. Statement of the of the witnesses were recorded under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (in short
 `Code') and after completion of investigation, charge sheet
 was filed before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jagdalpur,
 who in turn committed the case to the Court of Sessions,
 Bastar at Jagdalpur. The case was relating to Section 3 (i) (v) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention
 of Atrocities) Act, 1989 , therefore, the case made over to
 the Special Judge under Atrocities Act, Jagdalpur. 6. In order to prove the guilt of the accused/appellants,
 the prosecution has examined as many as 8 witnesses.
 Statements of the accused/appellants were recorded under
 Section 313 of the Code where they denied the circumstances
 appearing against them and claimed innocence and false
 implication in the crime in question. The accused have also
 examined defence witnesses Sushil Sahu (DW-1), Maheshchandra 
 Joshi (DW-2). Accused Rawalmal Jain has examined himself as 
 defence witness and has deposed that on the alleged date of
 incident i.e. 22.12.2001, he was present in his house situate
 at Vrundawan Colony, Jagdalpur where the police came and took 
 signature on some documents and thereby he has taken defence 
 of alibi. Sushil Singh (DW-1) has deposed in his evidence
 that some persons were present at Parpa, they told that they
 have caught red handed fake currency notes, Renuram and
 Mahesh Joshi were also present, he went along with Mahesh
 Joshi to bank and showed the same to the bank officer, then
 bank officer told that currency notes are fake. He also
 telephoned to police station Frejerpur and incharge of Police
 Station Frejerpur reached there and inquired into the matter.
 Renuram informed the police officer that he has received fake
 currency notes from one Narayan Singh who had gone towards 
 Chilmili. While they were passing near village Aarapur, the
 persons who had given currency notes to Renu were coming from 
 jeep, then police officer stopped the jeep, Renu indicated
 the persons who had given fake currency notes to him, then
 police took those persons to police station where notes were
 seized vide Exs.P/19 and P/21. Defence witness Maheshchandra 
 Joshi has also corroborated seizure of Exs.P/19 and P/21. 7. After affording opportunity of hearing to the parties,
 learned Special Judge has convicted and sentenced the
 accused/appellants as aforementioned. 8. I have heard learned counsel for the parties, perused
 the judgment impugned and record of the Court below. 9. In the present case, seven accused persons were tried
 jointly and on the basis of the evidence adduced on behalf of
 the prosecution learned Special Judge/Additional Sessions
 Judge, Jagdalpur has convicted appellant Narendra Kumar Jain
 under Section 489B & 489C read with Section 120B of the
 Indian Penal Code and appellants Narsingh Lal, Kurushetra
 Sena, Babulal Inadi, Rawalmal Jain, T. Appal Suri under
 Section 489C read with Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code. 10. Mr. Jitendra Gupta & Mr.Rishi Rahul Soni, learned
 counsel appearing for appellant-Narendra Kumar Jain in
 Criminal Appeal No.22 of 2004 submitted that in order to
 convict appellant Narendra Kumar Jain under Section 489B &
 489C read with Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code, the
 prosecution was under obligation to prove the ingredient of
 the offence at the time of incident. He has sold or
 purchased or received from any person or otherwise traffics
 in or uses as genuine knowing or having reason to believe the
 same to be forged or counterfeit. The prosecution was under 11. On the other hand, learned counsel appearing on behalf
 of other appellants submitted that the prosecution has
 utterly failed to prove any conspiracy for using fake
 currency note as genuine against the appellants. The
 prosecution has also utterly failed to prove the possession
 of counterfeit note with the appellants, therefore, any
 conviction or sentence under Sections 489B & 489C read with Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code are not sustainable
 under the law. 12. Learned counsel for appellant-Narendra Kumar Jain placed
 reliance in the matter of M.Mammutti v. State of Karnataka1 in which the Apex Court has held that mere look at them would
 not convince anybody that they were counterfeit and in
 absence of any specific question of possession of counterfeit
 note to the accused, conviction under Sections 489B & 489C of
 the Indian Penal Code is not sustainable under the law. Learned counsel further placed reliance in the matter of
 Umashankar v. Stat of Chhattisgarh2 in which the Apex Court
 has held that mens rea is essential ingredient to constitute
 the offence under Sections 489B & 489C of the Indian Penal
 Code and the prosecution is required to prove mens rea that
 the appellant was in possession of counterfeit currency note
 knowing or having reason to believe the same to be forged or
 counterfeit and in absence of such prove, any conviction
 under Sections 489B & 489C of the Indian Penal Code is not
 sustainable under thee law. 13. Mr.Alok Dewangan, learned counsel appearing for
 appellant-Kurushetra Sena placed reliance in the matter of
 Veera swamy Shanmugam Sundaram v. The State of A.P.3 in which 
 the High Court of Andhra Pradesh has held that in the absence
 of any knowledge of counterfeit note or factum of possession
 of counterfeit note, conviction of the appellants under Sections 489B & 489C of the Indian Penal Code is not
 sustainable under the law. Learned counsel further placed
 reliance in the matter of Madan Lal Sarma v. The State4 in
 which the High Court of Calcutta has held that mere
possession of forged note does not shift burden on accused to
 prove innocence and knowledge or reason to believe that note
 was forged has to be proved. Learned counsel also placed
 reliance in the matter of Umashankar (supra). 14. In order to appreciate the argument advanced on behalf
 of the parties, I have examined the evidence adduced on
 behalf of the prosecution and defence. In the present case,
 defence has examined Sushil Singh (DW-1) and Maheshchandra 
 Joshi (DW-2) the witnesses of Exs.P/19 and P/21. Ex.P/19 is
 seizure of genuine notes along with fake currency notes from
 appellant Narendra Kumar Jain and Ex.P/21 is seizure of
 genuine notes along with fake currency notes from appellant
 Narsingh. Sushil Singh (DW-1) has deposed in his evidence
 that on the date of incident some persons were standing in
 front of his shop, they told that they have caught red handed
 fake currency notes. Mahesh Joshi (DW-2), complainant Renu 
 and Damru Sethiya were also present there, then they went to
 the bank along with these currency notes. Officer of the
 bank examined the notes and infirmed that the alleged
 currency notes were fake and they also informed the police
 station Prejerpur and police station Prejerpur immediately
 came to the bank and interrogated Renuram whom Renu Ram 
 informed that Narayan Singh has given fake currency notes to
 him, then they chased and went towards Chilmili, at that
 time some persons were coming from jeep, police officials
 stopped the jeep and asked Renu ram that who had given fake
 currency notes, Renu Ram identified the persons, then they
 took all the persons to police station. After sometime, he
 along with Mahesh Joshi went to police station where the
 notes were seized. He has further deposed that when he
 reached to the police station with Mahesh Joshi, at that time
 all the accused persons were in custody. The police have not
 seized notes from the accused persons. In his cross-
 examination, he has admitted signature over seizure memos
 Exs.P/17 and P/19 to P/24 relating to seizure of genuine and
 fake currency notes from all accused persons. Substantially
 his evidence reveals that Renu has intimated him and bank
 officer and also the police that these accused persons have
 given fake currency notes to him. The police officials took
 the accused persons to police station where seizure memos
 were prepared. Maheshchandra Joshi (DW-2) has admitted his 
 signature over Exs.P/19 and P/21 and also in Exs.P/17 to
 P/24. He has identified accused Narendra Kumar Jain and Renu
 Ram, but has denied the suggestion that currency notes were
 seized from different accused, although he has admitted
 signature over seizure memos. The evidence of both the
 persons reveals that at the time of seizure and at the time
 of incident, police apprehended the appellants and they have
 signed over seizure memos and documents. Appellant Rawalmal 
 Jain has examined himself as defence witness under Section
 315 of the Code who has deposed that prior to 17.12.2001 till
 19.12.2001 he was not present at Jagdalpur and he was busy in
 his treatment, but has admitted his presence at Jagdalpur on
 22.12.2001. In his cross-examination he has admitted that
 his reservation slip does not bear his name. He has denied
 the presence of accused persons in police station, but other
 defence witnesses have specifically deposed and admitted the
 presence all the accused persons in police station. 15. Renu (PW-4) has deposed in his evidence that on
 22.12.2001 Railway officer came for payment of salary, he
 received salary, he requested Narendra Kumar Jain for change
 of Rs.500/- currency note, then Narendra Kumar Jain gave him
 5 currency notes of Rs.100/- denomination. Out of 5 currency
 notes, he gave one currency notes of Rs.100/- to chicken
 shopkeeper. He asked for other notes and also asked from
 whom he has received and also told him that currency notes
 are fake, then he told to police officer present on duty. In
 his detail cross-examination, he has admitted that frequently
 he will take money from Narendra Kumar Jain and also used to
 return the same to Narendra Kumar Jain. He has also admitted
 that he has given Rs.500/- to Khodiya Seth, Rs.500/- to
 Narsingh and Rs.500/- to Narendra Kumar Jain for change.
 F.I.R. also reveals that he along with Damru, Mahesh Joshi
 and Sushil Singh went to State Bank. The Manager of the
 State Bank has also examined and informed that currency notes
 are not genuine. Branch Manager also telephoned to police
 station. The appellants were running business of money
 lending, they went from jeep towards Chilmili. Hemnath @
 Damru (PW-2) has deposed in his evidence that Renu came to 
 him and given Rs.100/-, he saw the currency note, the colour
 of currency notes were dark and was thicker other than normal
 currency note, then he asked Renu from where he obtained
 these currency notes, Renu told him that he has obtained the
 same as a result of change. He has also produced another
 notes which were also not genuine, then he along with Mahesh
 Joshi went to State Bank, the officer of the State Bank told
 them that currency notes were fake. This witness has not
 supported the case of the prosecution and the prosecution
 declared him hostile. In his cross-examination, he has
 deposed that Renu has not told the name of any person or
 Narendra Jain. Arjun Singh Sethiya (PW-3), brother of
 Hemnath (PW-2) has corroborated the evidence of Renu (PW-4). 
 The evidence of these witnesses clearly reveals that currency
 notes found in possession of Renu were not genuine and at the
 first instance, currency notes appear to be fake. Ishwar
 Kumar Rajpal (PW-6) Manager, Bhartiya State Bank, Branch 
 Tokapal has deposed in his evidence that on 22.12.2001 Mahesh 
 Chandra Joshi, Hemnath @ Damru, Sushil Kumar Singh and some 
 other persons came to his bank and they produced three
 currency notes of Rs.100/- for examination. After
 examination he told them that these notes are not genuine on
 the basis of their prima facie appearance. He has also
 deposed that he directed them to come at office time, but
 they have lodged the report. 16. The matter was mainly investigated by G.N.Singh (PW-7)
 who has deposed that on 22.12.2001 at Tokapal he has
 registered dehati nalishi Ex.P/15 at the instance of Renu and
 also registered F.I.R. vide Ex.P/16. He has deposed that he
 has seized 5 currency notes from Renu vide Ex.P/17, one
 commander jeep from M. Narayanrao vide Ex.P/18. Currency 
 notes from accused Narendra Jain vide Ex.P/19. He has further
 deposed that he has also seized currency notes from accused
 Narsingh vide Ex.P/20, from K.K.Sinha vide Ex.P/21, from
 accused Rawalmal vide Ex.P/22, from accused T.Appal Suri vide 
 Ex.P/23 and from accused Babulal vide Ex.P/24. In his detail
 cross-examination he has admitted that at the time of
 incident he was on village patrolling and Renu informed that
 at Tokapal about the incident. He has denied the suggestion
 that he has not seized any currency notes vide Exs. P/17 and
 P/19 to P/22. He has admitted in para 12 of his cross-
 examination that he seized currency notes from accused K.K.
 Sena vide Ex.P/21. He has specifically stated in paras 13 to
 20 of his cross-examination that he has seized different
 denomination notes from different persons vide Exs.P/17 to
 P/24 and he has denied the suggestion that he has not seized
 currency notes mentioned as additional in the aforesaid
 seizures from accused concerned. D.S.Uike (PW-6) Sub
 Divisional Officer has deposed in his evidence that he has
 conducted investigation and has sent currency notes for
 examination to Currency Note Press, Jail Road, Nasik vide
 Ex.P/12 and has received report vide Ex.P/13 which reveals
 that date of currency notes sent for examination. 29
 currency notes of Rs.100/- denomination and 10 currency notes
 of Rs.50/0 denomination were of same numbers. The
 prosecution has also examined another Sub Divisional Officer
 D.R.S.Uike (PW-8) probably he was on witness examined as PW- 6. He has deposed that he has conducted investigation. He
 has deposed that he has sent currency note for examination to
 Currency Note Press, Jail Road, Nasik vide Ex.P/33 and
 reports are Exs.P/34 and P/35. 17. In the present case, firstly charge was framed and
 witnesses were examined in the capacity of the Additional
 Sessions Judge, but after framing of additional charge for
 the offence punishable under the provisions of Scheduled
 Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,
 these witnesses were again examined, therefore, he has
 deposed that report of currency notes as Exs.P/34 and P/35,
 but the same is one and the same as Ex.P/13 and P/14 which 
 reveals that 5 currency notes of Rs.100/- denomination having
 same bearing number 6ND 335933, 5 currency notes of Rs.100/- 
 denomination were having same bearing number 6ND 335935, 5 
 currency notes of Rs.100/- denomination were having same
 bearing number 6ND 335936, 4 currency notes of Rs.100/-
 denomination were having same bearing number 2VU 538839, 5 
 currency notes of Rs.100/- denomination were having same
 bearing number 2VU 538840 and 5 currency notes of Rs.100/- 
 denomination were having same bearing number 2VU 538841. 
 Reports Exs.P/34 and P/35 also reveal that 4 currency notes
 of Rs.50/- denomination were having same bearing number 5EE 
 954726, 4 currency notes of Rs.50/- denomination were having
 same bearing number 5EE 954727 and 4 currency notes of Rs.50/- 
 were having same bearing number 5EE 954728. Total 29
 currency notes of Rs.100/- denomination and 10 currency notes
 of Rs.50/- were same numbers and they were not genuine and 
 were counterfeit. The appellants have admitted the
 possession of genuine notes, but have specifically denied the
 possession of notes seized from their pockets and were
 specifically found fake. In cross-examination of G.N.Singh
 (PW-7), he has specifically denied the suggestion that he has
 not seized currency notes which has been mentioned in the
 seizure memos Exs.P/17 and P/19 to P/24 from other pockets of 
 the appellants. 18. In the present case, it is pertinent to note that
 seizures have been made on 22.12.2001. After completion of
 investigation, charge sheet has been filed on 31.1.2002 and
 copy of the charge sheet has also been supplied to the
 appellants on the same day i.e. 31.1.2002. Charge sheet along
 with letter sent to Currency Press Note and receipt of the
 letter for examination of Currency Press Note with note were
 filed along with charge sheet, at that time, report of
 Currency Note Press was not available to the prosecution.
 Same currency notes were examined by Currency Note Press vide 
 its report dated 14th October, 2002, after about 9 months of
 filing of the charge sheet. It reveals that after receiving
 receipt of report of analysis, no opportunity of tempering or
 addition in seizure memos was available to the prosecution.
 Vide Ex.P/17, 5 currency notes of Rs.100/- denomination were
 seized from complainant Renu. As per report of Currency Note
 Press Exs.P-13/35, these 5 currency notes of 6 ND and 2VU
 series were fake and not genuine on account of their
 appearance and the fact that more than one currency notes
 were found of same number. Vide Ex.P/19, following currency
 notes were also found from upper shirt of Narendra Jain
 bearing following numbers: As per Ex.P/21, two additional notes of Rs.100/-, 4
 additional notes of Rs.50/- along with 4 currency notes of
 Rs.50/- were also found from the pocket of K.K.Sinha. Out
 of the aforesaid currency notes, 2 currency notes bearing
 numbers 5EE 934726 and 5EE 934729 were not genuine and 
 were counterfeit as per report Ex.P-13/35. As per seizure
 Ex.P/22 along with other currency notes, 3 currency notes
 bearing numbers 6ND 335936, 6ND 335935 and 6ND 335933 were 
 found right side of pocket of accused Rawalmal which were
 not genuine as per report Ex.P-13/35. Vide Ex.P/23, 5
 currency notes were also seized from accused T.Appal Suri
 of Rs.100/- denomination bearing numbers 2VU 538840, 2VU 
 538840, 6ND 335936, 6ND 335935 and 6ND 335933 which were 
 not genuine and were counterfeit as per report Ex.P-13/35.
 Vide Ex.P/24 along with other currency notes of Rs.100/-
 and 4 currency notes of Rs.50/- have been seized from
 accused Babulal from his pocket of shirt bearing numbers
 2VU 538839, 2VU 538841 and 6ND 335933 were not genuine and 
 were counterfeit as per report Ex.P-13/35. 19. These seizure memos reveal that all the appellants were
 in possession of genuine currency notes and also in
 possession of counterfeit currency notes which were holding
 in different parts not with other currency notes found in
 bulk quantity from the appellants, may be as a result of
 their salary or other receipt. 20. The evidence of Renu (PW-4) is safe to rely up to the
 extent that he has received 5 currency notes. He requested
 for change of currency note of Rs.100/- denomination to
 Narendra Jain and Narendra Jain gave him 5 currency notes of
 Rs.100/- which was finally seized vide Ex.P/17. His evidence
 is corroborated by the evidence of Hemnath @ Damru (PW-2) and 
 Arjun Singh Sethiya (PW-3). Hemnath @ Damru (PW-2) has 
 deposed in his evidence that Renu produced one currency note
 before him which was appearing as not genuine at the first
 instance on the basis of its appearance, then on being asked,
 Renu told that he has received the aforesaid notes from one
 person, Renu has requested for change of Rs.500/- and has
 received these currency notes as a result of such change.
 Seizure witnesses Sushil Singh (DW-1) and Maheshchandra Joshi 
 (DW-2) have admitted their signature over seizures memos
 Exs.P/17 and P/19 to P/24. Defence witness Sushil Singh (DW- 1) has examined in support of defence has specifically
 admitted in his evidence that Renu was in possession of
 currency notes, they went along with Renu before the bank and
 Bank Manager after examining the same has told that note was
 not genuine, then he also informed the police. The police
 came and he along with Renu went towards Chilmili, they made
 all the persons at Aarapur, they were coming by deep, Renu
 identified them and thereafter the police took them to the
 police station. After sometime they also reached to the
 police station and signed over seizure memos, at that time,
 accused persons were in lock-up. He has specifically denied
 separate seizure from separate persons and has deposed that
 all the currency notes were already present in the table of
 police officer and police officer has taken signature over
 seizure memos. If the evidence of this witness is considered,
 then it reveals that Renu has received fake currency notes
 from some person which has examined by the bank officer, then
 they went towards Chimili where the persons who has given
 fake currency notes to Renu, had gone. While they were going
 towards Chilmili at Aarapur, persons were coming by jeep,
 police officer stopped them, then Renu intimated the police
 officer that he has received fake currency notes from these
 persons and thereafter, the alleged seizure were prepared at
 the instance of Renu. When the accused persons stopped they 
 were in custody and seizure were prepared in the name of the
 accused persons in which Sushil Singh (DW-1) and
 Maheshchandra Joshi (DW-2) had put their signatures over
 seizure memos. Exs.P/17 and P/19 to P/24 are not small
 papers. It bears huge numbers of currency notes and other
 things. 21. These witnesses have not deposed that if the notes were
 not seized from the accused persons, then why they have
 signed over seizure memos and what was compelling
 circumstances. They have not deposed that they were under
 threat or fear, in other words, the evidence of Sushil Singh
 (DW-1) reveals that police officer direct to come to police
 station means he was having sufficient opportunity to go to
 his house, instead of going to police station. In these
 circumstances, the evidence of Sushil Singh (DW-1) and
 Maheshchandra Joshi (DW-2) reveals that they are concealing
 the truth relating to independent seizure of currency notes
 from different accused persons, but they have admitted their
 presence before and after seizure. 22. In these circumstances, the evidence of G.N.Singh (PW- 7) is substantially remain for consideration. He is police
 officer. His evidence cannot be discarded only on the ground
 that he is police officer and interested in the outcome of
 the case. While dealing with the question i.e. evidentiary
 value of the statements of Police Officers, the Apex Court
 has held in the case of Anil alias Andya Sadashiv Nandoskar
 v. State of Maharashtra5 , that testimony of police officials
 are not liable to be discarded merely because they are police
 officials. However, their evidence should be carefully
 scrutinized and independently appreciated. The Apex Court
further held that witnesses being police officers do not by
 itself create a doubt about their creditworthiness if non-
 examination of Panch witnesses is explained satisfactorily.
 Para 5 of the said judgment reads as under:- 23. Further, in the matter of P.P. Beeran v. State of Kerala6 it has been held by the Apex Court that reliance can be
 placed on the uncorroborated evidence of the Sub Inspector of
 Police. 24. The evidence of G.N.Singh (PW-7) inspire confidence and
 it is truth worthy that he has seized currency notes from all
 the accused persons vide Exs.P/17 and P/19 to P/24. His
 evidence is corroborated by the evidence of Sushil Singh (DW- 1) and Maheshchandra Joshi (DW-2), especially relating to
 presence of all the accused persons at the time of seizure.
 As per report of Currency Note Press Ex.P-13/35, some of the
 currency notes found in possession of the accused persons are
 not genuine and were counterfeit. Report reveals that
 currency notes were clearly distinguishable from genuine
 currency notes, especially quantity of numbering, it was very
 poor, it was slightly thicker then normal currency notes.
 Report also reveals that currency notes found in possession
 of the accused persons clearly distinguishable from the
 original currency notes. 25. It is common practice of the man that when he received
 some currency notes from his office or from shop or from
 other sources, then he does not examine or inquire the
 genuineness of the currency notes by using any instrument and
 normally used to keep in his pocket or purse along with other
 currency notes. 26. Only possession of counterfeit currency notes is not
 sufficient for conviction of the accused persons under Sections 489 B and 489 C of the Indian Penal Code, but the
 prosecution is required to prove that fake or counterfeit
 currency notes were in possession of the accused persons with
their knowledge and they were in possession of currency notes
 with intent to use the same as genuine or that it may be used
 as genuine. 27. In the present case, all the appellants were also having
 genuine currency notes, but they were having these notes in
 other pockets. They were in possession of the alleged
 counterfeit currency notes in their different pockets along
 with few genuine currency notes. 28. The special feature of this case that 5 currency notes
 of Rs.100/- were bearing same numbers and 5 sets of currency
 notes having 5 currency notes in each sets were having same
 number. Likewise, 4 currency notes of Rs.100/- were having
 same numbers, 4 currency notes of Rs.50/- were having same 
 numbers, 3 currency notes of Rs.50/- and another sets of
 Rs.50/- were having same numbers or in case of casual
 possession of fake or counterfeit currency notes, it would be
 difficult to presume that the person was in possession of
 counterfeit currency notes having knowledge that same is
 counterfeit and was in possession with intent to use the same
 as genuine, but this specific character of this case that the
 appellants had kept these fake currency notes in different
 pockets and most of the currency notes were having same
 numbers. The appellants were moving together on the date of
 payment of salary of railway employees for releasing their
 loan advance to employees show that all the appellants were
 having definite knowledge of fake currency notes which were
 in their possession. 29. In these circumstances, in the absence of any
 explanation that they were in possession of fake currency
 notes for other purposes, the only inference would be
 possible that they were in possession of counterfeit currency
 notes knowing or having reason to believe the same to be
 forged or counterfeit and intending to use the same as
 genuine or that it may be used as genuine. The evidence of
 Renu is sufficient for drawing inference that appellant
 Narendra Kumar Jain has used counterfeit currency notes as
 genuine. 30. The evidence adduced on behalf of the prosecution is not
 sufficient for drawing inference that the appellants have
 entered into illegal agreement for conspiracy and in
 furtherance of illegal agreement, they were in possession of
 counterfeit currency notes. The evidence adduced on behalf
 of the prosecution is sufficient for drawing inference that
 appellant Narendra Jain was in possession of counterfeit
 notes and has intentionally used the same as genuine. He was
 also in possession of counterfeit notes having knowledge with
 intent to use the same as genuine or that it may be used as
 genuine. The evidence adduced on behalf of the prosecution
 is sufficient for conviction of appellant Narendra Kumar Jain
 under Section 489B & 489C of the Indian Penal Code and
 appellants Narsingh Lal, Kurushetra Sena, Babulal Inadi,
 Rawalmal Jain and T. Appal Suri under Section 489C of the
 Indian Penal Code. 31. While convicting the appellants under Sections 489C read
 with Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code, the Court below
 has not considered the fact that the prosecution has not
 adduced evidence sufficient for punishment of criminal
 conspiracy and in furtherance of criminal conspiracy, the
 appellants were in possession of fake currency notes. 32. As regards the question of sentence, this Court in the
 matter of Reman alias Raman, s/o Hiralal Bhandekar & Anr.
 etc. v. State of Chhattisgarh7 has held in para 25 as under:- 33. For the foregoing reasons, Criminal Appeal No.22 of 2004
 filed on behalf of appellant Narendra Kumar Jain is partly
 allowed on technical ground. Conviction of appellant Narendra
 Kumar Jain under Sections 489B & 489C read with Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code is modified to Section 489B & 489C of the Indian Penal Code, however, sentence imposed by the
 Court below is maintained. Criminal Appeal No. 2/2004 filed
 by Kurukshetra Sena, Criminal Appeal No.43 filed by Rawalmal
 Jain and Criminal Appeal No.52/2004 filed by Narsingh Lal
 Maheshwari, Babulal Inadi and T.Appal Suri are also partly
 allowed on technical ground. Conviction of appellants
 Kurukshetra Sena, Rawalmal Jain, Narsingh Lal Maheshwari,
 Babulal Inadi and T.Appal Suri under Section 489C read with Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code is modified and instead
 thereof, they are convicted under Section 489C of the Indian
Penal Code, however, sentence imposed by the Court below is 
 maintained. J U D G E