G.P. MITTAL, J. 1. By virtue of this writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of
 India, the Petitioner has approached this Court for de-freezing it's
 account held in Citibank, NA, 27 Central Market, Sector II, Western
 Avenue Road, Punjabi Bagh, New Delhi which has been frozen by
 Respondent No.2 (Directorate of Revenue Intelligence). 2. The Petitioner alleges that there were certain allegations of import of high
 value pesticides/insecticides in the guise of Sodium Bi-Carbonate against
 certain firms which led to some investigation by Respondent No.2. It is
 urged that the Petitioner has neither been indicted nor arraigned as a
 Noticee in the show cause notice purported to have been issued in
 pursuance of the investigation. In spite of this, the Petitioner's Bank W.P. (C) 7449/2012 Page 1 of 12 Account bearing No.030874226 which has undergone major changes (in
 it's Constitution) has been frozen. It is urged that as per the provisions of Sections 110 (1) of the Customs Act, 1962 (the Act), if any goods liable
 for confiscation under the Act are seized and a show cause notice under Section 124 of the Act is not given within six months, then the goods are
 liable to be restored to the person from whom the goods have been seized.
 It is stated that since the Bank account was frozen in July, 2011, the same
 is liable to be de-freezed. 3. The writ petition has been resisted by Respondents No.1 and 2. Paras 1
 to 6 of the counter affidavit which reflects the stand of the Respondents
 are extracted hereunder:- 4. It has further been stated in the counter affidavit that the import of
 hazardous and dangerous chemicals is in violation of various laws and
 poses risk to the health of the persons involved in it's sale and
 distribution and the same also causes huge amount of loss to the public
 exchequer. 5. It is stated that during the investigation conducted by Respondent No.2, it
 was revealed that Mr. Arpit Rajvanshi, former partner of the Petitioner
 firm M/s. Ravi Crop Science in his statement stated that M/s. Ravi Crop
 Science had Bank accounts in Punjab National Bank, Muzaffarnagar and
 Punjab National Bank, Hissar. He further stated that he had returned the
 cheque book of M/s. Ravi Crop Science to Shri Kamal Alawadi after
 signing the same. Said Mr. Arpit Rajvanshi also informed that he had no
 knowledge if M/s. Ravi Crop Science had any account in Citi Bank, New
 Delhi and that he had not signed any cheque of that account. It is averred
 that on confronting the account opening form, he (Mr. Arpit Rajvanshi)
 agreed that his signature appeared on the account opening form as a
 Partner of the firm. In para 19 of the Counter Affidavit, averments with
 regard to the proportion of evasion have been made, which is extracted
 hereunder:- 6. It is stated that the condition of serving a notice to the person from whose
 possession the goods are seized is applicable to the goods which are
 seized under Section 110 (1) of the Act only and not otherwise. 7. Mr. Jagmohan Sabharwal, learned Senior counsel for the Petitioner while
 relying on the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Harbans Lal v. Collector of Central Excise & Customs , (1993) 3 SCC
 656 has urged that once a notice under Section 110(2) of the Act is not W.P. (C) 7449/2012 Page 5 of 12 given within a period of six months as mandated, the goods seized are
 liable to be restored to the person from whose possession they were
 seized. It is urged that even if an extension is given for six months, the
 same would be invalid unless the person affected is given a notice before
 giving such extension. 8. On the other hand, Mr. S.K. Dubey, learned counsel for the Respondents
 tried to make a distinction between Section 110 and 124 of the Act to
 contend that although the notice under Section 110(2) to be served within
 a period of six months is mandatory, yet no such time limit is laid down
 under Section 124 and thus, the seizure of the goods can continue under Section 124 of the Act. In support of his contention, the learned counsel
 places reliance on Jeevraj and Ors. v. Collector of Customs & Ors. ,
 (1997) 8 SCC 519. 9. Mr. Dubey further urges that unconditional de-freezing of the bank
 accounts may not be allowed as then it might become difficult for the
 DRI to recover the customs duty and the penalty levied thereon. The
 learned counsel presses into service a judgment of the Supreme Court in
 Commissioner of Customs, New Delhi v. Euroasia Global, (2009) 6 SCC 58. 10. Mr. Dubey further relies on a Division Bench judgment of this Court in
 Director General, DRI & Ors. v. Sajjan Kumar & Ors., LPA
 No.450/2012, decided on 02.07.2012 to urge that the operation of the
 bank accounts can be permitted subject only to the condition that the
 Petitioner will not be entitled to withdraw the amounts deposited on the
 date of the freezing of accounts and the amounts credited in the accounts
 in relation to the previous imports. 11. The distinction and the scope of Section 110(2) and 124 were dealt with
 in great detail by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the judgment of
 Harbans Lal. The Supreme Court held that Sections 110 and 124 are
 independent, distinct and exclusive of each other and even if any seized
 goods are returnable in terms of Section 110 of the Act, the proceedings
 for confiscation of the goods under Section 124 may still continue. Paras
 7 and 8 of the report in Harbans Lal are extracted hereunder:- Unquestionably thus is the settled position of law that while
 extending time under Section 110(2) , the owner of the seized goods
 is entitled to notice, because the seized goods on the expiry of
 period of six months are required to be returned to him, and if that
 period was to be extended for another period of six months he had
 the right to be heard. The High Court in the decision under appeal
 has thus rightly observed that it was not disputed before it that the
 ex parte order extending the time by another six months as
 postulated in Sections 110(2) and 124 of the Act, was vitiated. 8. Then comes the question as to what is the fallout of the order
 extending time under sub-section (2) of Section 110 of the Act
 being vitiated. Learned counsel for the appellant would have us
 hold that in face of that vitiation, proceedings under Section 124 get lapsed for they could not be initiated without the aid of Section 110. This argument, however, militates against the ratio of Charan
 Das Malhotra 's case and cannot be accepted. In the second half of
 paragraph 5 of the report of that case this Court observed:- (emphasis supplied)

 In clear terms, it has thus been held that the period angle causing
 affectation under Section 110(2) , would only pertain to the seizure
 of goods. The validity of notice under Section 124 , for which no W.P. (C) 7449/2012 Page 8 of 12 period has been laid within which it is required to be given is not
 affected. The seizure may have, after the expiry of six months or
 after the expiry of extended period of six months entitled the owner
 or the person concerned to the possession of the seized goods. This
 obviously is so because the matter at that stage is under
 investigation. On launching proceedings under Chapter XIV, Section 124 enjoins issuance of a notice for which no period has
 been fixed within which notice may be given. The difference is
 obvious because this goes as a step towards trial. The ratio of this
 Court aforequoted in Charan Das Malhotra 's case thus settles the
 question aforeposed and the answer is that these two Sections 110 and 124 are independent, distinct and exclusive of each other,
 resulting in the survival of the proceedings under Section 124 ,
 even though the seized goods might have to be returned, or stand
 returned, in terms of Section 110 of the Act, after the expiry of the
 permissible period of seizure." 12. Thus, it is well settled by the authoritative pronouncement of the Supreme
 Court in Harbans Lal that if the notice as required under Section 110(2) of the Act is not served, the goods are liable to be returned, though the
 same may not affect the proceedings for confiscation of the goods under Section 124 of the Act. 13. Jeevraj and Ors., relied upon by the learned counsel for the Respondents
 in fact reiterates what was laid down in Harbans Lal. It nowhere states
 that even if no notice under Section 110 (2) in respect of the seizure of
 the goods is given, the goods can be still continued to be seized for the
 purpose of confiscation under Section 124 of the Act. 14. Mr. S.K.Dubey, learned counsel for the Respondents has tried to persuade
 me that the seizure of the bank account in the instant case was not
 covered under Section 110(2) of the Act, rather the same was done under Section 110 (3) of the Act and there is no provision to serve any notice W.P. (C) 7449/2012 Page 9 of 12 upon the person from whose possession any documents or things are
 seized under this Section. 15. Mr. S.K. Dubey urges that the investigation in respect of evasion of
 customs duty is in progress and show cause notices are likely to be issued
 to the persons guilty of violation very soon. It is urged that freezing of
 the bank account was primarily to ensure the recovery of the customs
 duty, which was evaded on account of mis-declaration of the goods. 16. Section 110(3) of the Act deals with seizure of the documents or things
 which in the opinion of the proper officer would be relevant to any
 proceedings under the Act. Freezing of the bank account, in my opinion,
 will not be seizure of any document or thing useful or relevant to any
 proceedings under the Act. Rather freezing of the account was only with
 a view to stop the Petitioner from withdrawing the proceeds of the alleged
 violations under the Act. 17. In Euroasia Global, relied upon by the learned counsel for the
 Respondents, it was held that the 'goods' defined under Section 2(22) of
 the Act includes currency. There is no precedent to show that freezing of
 the bank account will amount to seizure of currency. Since the
 Respondents' plea is that the bank account stand frozen with a view to
 recover the evaded customs duty, penalty, etc. etc., the freezing of the
 bank account may not amount to the seizure of any document, but at the
 same time it cannot also amount to seizure of any goods liable for
 confiscation as well. In Euroasia Global, even in case of seizure of the
 currency, the Supreme Court held that unconditional release of cash
 ought not to have been allowed. In para 8, the Supreme Court held as
 under:- 18. Similarly, in Sajjan Kumar, the bank accounts were permitted to be
 operated, subject to the direction that the amount received in respect of
 past export transactions shall not be withdrawn. 19. The instant case relates to import of certain chemicals and evasion of
 customs duty thereon. 20. The Respondents in the counter affidavit have stated the chain as to how
 the misdeclared goods were imported by M/s. VVK Traders, M/s. Mehta
 Overseas, M/s. Chopra Overseas and M/s. Umesh Impex and other firms
 and were shown to be sold to individuals against the fake cash bills and
 imported chemicals with correct description were shown to be supplied
 by another set of fake front firms to several firms located mainly at
 Sambha, Jammu & Kashmir and the Petitioner's firm was found to be one
 of such firms. 21. In this view of the matter, since the freezing of the bank account, as stated
 above, was not seizure of the 'goods' as envisaged under Section 110 of
 the Act, the Petitioner is not entitled to de-freezing of the bank account
 unconditionally. It is therefore, directed that the amount deposited in
 Bank Account No.030874226, Citibank, NA, 27 Central Market, Sector
 II, Western Avenue Road, Punjabi Bagh, New Delhi, after the date of
 freezing the account shall be released, subject to furnishing of a Bank W.P. (C) 7449/2012 Page 11 of 12 guarantee to Respondent No.2 in respect of the amount credited in the
 account from the date of freezing of the account. 22. The writ petition stands disposed of accordingly. (G.P. MITTAL)
 JUDGE
DECEMBER 20, 2013
vk W.P. (C) 7449/2012 Page 12 of 12