% 23.08.2021 1. The matter is taken up today as 20.08.2021 was declared a holiday on
account of 'Muharram'. 2. The present bail application has been filed under Section 438 Cr.P.C.
on behalf of the applicant seeking anticipatory bail in FIR No. 388/2020
registered under Section 306 IPC at Police Station Kotla Mubarakpur, Delhi. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the deceased was the
applicant's tenant since the year 2011. During his submission, he has
referred to the suicide note as well as the documents stated to be executed
between the applicant and the deceased including the lease agreement as
well as the loan agreement of the year 2016. He has also referred to the
complaint dated 09.10.2020 by the applicant addressed to the DCP, South
 District regarding non-payment of rent and threats of suicide given by the
deceased. Lastly, it is submitted that the deceased had committed suicide on
27.10.2020 and at that time, the applicant was in Rishikesh, Uttarakhand
from 25.10.2020 till 28.10.2020. He submits that from the allegations
levelled in the FIR it cannot be said that the applicant had instigated, goaded
or abetted the deceased in committing suicide. He has also referred to the
Status Report dated 12.12.2020 placed on record to submit that during
investigation, the Investigating Officer had recorded the statement of one
Amar Singh, the care taker of the building where the deceased was
occupying the tenanted shop, who stated that the deceased had consumed
three quarters of alcohol on the said date. It is also submitted that the
deceased was convicted for an offence punishable under Section 138 of the
NI Act in Complaint Case No. 10377/2017 which was filed by co-accused
Ishwar Singh Mashuni. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant has also referred to the suicide note
which shows that the deceased was not in a fit state of mind as his wife and
children had already left him. 5. Learned APP for the State, duly assisted by learned counsel for the
complainant, has opposed the bail application. He submits that the deceased
was harassed by the applicant as it is mentioned in the suicide note that
certain blank papers and a diary was taken away by the applicant. 6. Ms. Anu Narula, learned counsel for the complainant submits that
loan transaction documents as well as the receipts were forged by the
applicant and even the signatures of Mohit (brother of the deceased)
appearing as a witness were also forged. Lastly, it is submitted that during
investigation, Section 3(2)(v) of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled
 Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 has also been invoked. 7. I have heard learned counsels for the parties. The FIR is registered
under Section 306 IPC which provides that whoever abets the commission
of such suicide, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description
for a term which may extend to ten years and shall also be liable to fine. The
word abetment is defined under Section 107 IPC and has been held to mean
to instigate or goad the deceased to commit suicide. 8. A perusal of the FIR and the Status Report would show that on the
date of incident, the mother of the deceased had called him at about 11 p.m.
The deceased had replied that his partner Rohit was busy in the work of
making a tattoo and it would take him some time to come home. Thereafter,
the brother of the deceased received a call from the son of the applicant, who
informed him that the deceased was found hanging from the fan in the shop.
The Investigating Officer recorded the statement of Amar Singh, who stated
that the deceased had consumed three quarters of alcohol on that day. All the
transaction documents show that the same appear to be of the year 2014-
2016. Even as per the Status Report filed before the Trial Court, it is stated
that certain blank signatures were taken about 5-6 years back by the
applicant. 9. On a specific query, learned APP for the State, on instructions,
confirms that the deceased was convicted in the aforesaid Complaint Case
registered under Section 138 of the NI Act. It is also verified that the present
applicant was not in Delhi from 25.10.2020 till 28.10.2020. It is also stated
to be verified that there was no call exchanged between the applicant and the
deceased immediately before the date of suicide. Further, in terms of the
previous directions, the applicant has joined the investigation and also
 handed over the documents as well as the pocket diary to the Investigating
Officer. Though, the brother of the deceased had denied that it was the same
diary which was mentioned in the suicide note however, learned counsel for
the applicant submitted that the only diary available with the applicant has
already been handed over to the Investigating Officer. 10. The Supreme Court in Prathvi Raj Chauhan v. Union of India and
Others reported as (2020) 4 SCC 727 held that if the complaint does not
make out a prima facie case for applicability of the provisions of the Act of
1989, the bar created by Section 18 and 18A (2) shall not apply. 11. From a prima facie reading of the material placed on the record, the
necessary mens rea on part of the applicant which is required for conviction
under Section 306 IPC appears to be lacking. The documents stated to be
executed between the applicant and the deceased were of the year 2014-
2016. The deceased was convicted on the date he committed suicide and was
also under the influence of alcohol. It cannot be said that because of the acts
of the applicant, the deceased was left with no choice but to commit suicide. 12. Looking into the aforesaid facts and circumstances, it is directed that
in the event of arrest, the applicant be released on anticipatory bail subject to
his furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs.25,000/- with one surety in
the like amount to the satisfaction of the Arresting Officer/Investigating
Officer/SHO of the concerned police station and also subject to the
following further conditions: Kuldeep Singh, Police Station Kotla Mubarakpur at his
 mobile number: 9818535361; touch with the complainant or any other prosecution
 witnesses or tamper with the evidence; iv) The applicant shall regularly appear before the trial Court
 as and when the charge sheet is filed against him; v) In case of change of residential address/contact details,
 the applicant shall promptly inform the same to the
 concerned Investigating Officer/SHO. 13. The application stands disposed of in the above terms. 14. Needless to state that nothing observed hereinabove shall amount to
an expression on the merits of the case and shall not have a bearing on the
trial of the case. MANOJ KUMAR OHRI, J
AUGUST 23, 2021
na

 Click here to check corrigendum, if any