FIR No. Dated Police Station Sections
 360 20.08.2020 City Tohana, Distt. 420, 467, 468, 471, 474, 198, 201,
 Fatehabad 120-B IPC and Section 12(1) (b of Passport Act 1967 and Sections 7 , 8 , 12 of Prevention of Corruption Act
 1988 and Sections 66-C & 66-D of
 Information Technology Act 2000 1. The petitioner, incarcerated around 10 months in the FIR captioned above, has
come up before this Court under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ( CrPC )
seeking bail. 2. As per paragraph 4(iv) of the bail petition as well as custody certificate dated
08.02.2024, the accused has the following criminal antecedents: 3. Prosecution's case is being taken from reply dated 13.02.2024, filed by the
concerned DySP, which reads as under:- 4 of 11 ::: Downloaded on - 22-02-2024 02:26:05 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:023661 5 CRM-M-2250-2024 10. That it is pertinent to mention here that the fake passport of the
 petitioner/accused was prepared however, due to false address the
 passport was not delivered and the Postman returned it to the Passport
 Office, Chandigarh. The passport with the false address of Surjit Singh has
 been recovered from the Passport Officer, Chandigarh. 3. Petitioner seeks bail on the grounds of parity with similarly placed co-accused,
who have the following criminal history:- 4. Petitioner's counsel also refers to the judgment passed by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India, in Rakesh Kumar Singh vs. State of West Bengal in SLP (Crl.) No.10016 of
2022, to answer the criminal history. 5. Petitioner's counsel prays for bail by imposing any stringent conditions including
surrender of firearms, tracking by GPS and are also voluntarily agreeable to the
condition that till the conclusion of the trial, the petitioner shall keep only one mobile
number, which is mentioned in AADHAR card, if any, and within fifteen days undertakes
to disconnect all other mobile numbers. The petitioner contends that the further pre-
trial incarceration would cause an irreversible injustice to the petitioner and family. 5 of 11 ::: Downloaded on - 22-02-2024 02:26:05 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:023661 6 CRM-M-2250-2024 4. The state's counsel opposes the bail and states that considering the allegations
and given the criminal past, the petitioner is not entitled to bail. 5. An analysis of the above, this Court is satisfied with the pre-trial custody of around
10 months and not going into the questions of parity with co-accused and also
considering the nature of allegations and the quality of evidence collected from the
petitioner. 6. In Maulana Mohd Amir Rashadi v. State of U.P. , (2012) 3 SCC 382, Hon'ble Supreme
Court holds,
 [10] It is not in dispute and highlighted that the second respondent is
 a sitting Member of Parliament facing several criminal cases. It is also
 not in dispute that most of the cases ended in acquittal for want of
 proper witnesses or pending trial. As observed by the High Court,
 merely on the basis of criminal antecedents, the claim of the second
 respondent cannot be rejected. In other words, it is the duty of the
 Court to find out the role of the accused in the case in which he has
 been charged and other circumstances such as possibility of fleeing
 away from the jurisdiction of the Court etc. 7. While considering each bail petition of the accused with a criminal history, it
throws an onerous responsibility upon the Courts to act judiciously with reasonableness
because arbitrariness is the antithesis of law. The criminal history must be of cases
where the accused was convicted, including the suspended sentences and all pending
First Information Reports, wherein the bail petitioner stands arraigned as an accused. In
reckoning the number of cases as criminal history, the prosecutions resulting in acquittal
or discharge, or when Courts quashed the FIR; the prosecution stands withdrawn, or
prosecution filed a closure report; cannot be included. Although crime is to be despised
and not the criminal, yet for a recidivist, the contours of a playing field are marshy, and
graver the criminal history, slushier the puddles. 8. Given the penal provisions invoked viz-a-viz pre-trial custody, coupled with the
primafacie analysis of the nature of allegations, and the other factors peculiar to this
case, there would be no justifiability further pre-trial incarceration at this stage, subject
to the compliance of terms and conditions mentioned in this order. Thus, the previous
criminal history of the petitioner is not being considered strictly at this stage as a factor
for denying bail. 9. In Sanjay Chandra v. Central Bureau of Investigation , (2012) 1 SCC 40, Supreme
Court holds, 6 6 of 11 ::: Downloaded on - 22-02-2024 02:26:05 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:023661 7 CRM-M-2250-2024
 [28] We are conscious of the fact that the accused are charged
 with economic offences of huge magnitude. We are also conscious
 of the fact that the offences alleged, if proved, may jeopardize the
 economy of the country. At the same time, we cannot lose sight of
 the fact that the investigating agency has already completed
 investigation and the charge sheet is already filed before the
 Special Judge, CBI, New Delhi. Therefore, their presence in the
 custody may not be necessary for further investigation. We are of
 the view that the appellants are entitled to the grant of bail
 pending trial on stringent conditions in order to ally the
 apprehension expressed by CBI. 10. The possibility of the accused influencing the investigation, tampering with
evidence, intimidating witnesses, and the likelihood of fleeing justice, can be taken care
of by imposing elaborative and stringent conditions. InSushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of
Delhi ),2020:INSC:106 [Para 92], (2020) 5 SCC 1, Para 92, the Constitutional Bench held
that unusually, subject to the evidence produced, the Courts can impose restrictive
conditions. 11. Without commenting on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, and for the reasons mentioned above, the petitioner makes a case for bail,
subject to the following terms and conditions, which shall be over and above and
irrespective of the contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 12. In Madhu Tanwar. v. State of Punjab, 2023:PHHC:077618 [Para 10, 21], CRM-M-
27097-2023, decided on 29-05-2023, this court observed,

 [10] The exponential growth in technology and artificial
 intelligence has transformed identification techniques
 remarkably. Voice, gait, and facial recognition are incredibly
 sophisticated and pervasive. Impersonation, as we know it
 traditionally, has virtually become impossible. Thus, the remedy
 lies that whenever a judge or an officer believes that the
 accused might be a flight risk or has a history of fleeing from
 justice, then in such cases, appropriate conditions can be
 inserted that all the expenditure that shall be incurred to trace
 them, shall be recovered from such person, and the State shall
 have a lien over their assets to make good the loss. [21] In this era when the knowledge revolution has just begun,
 to keep pace with exponential and unimaginable changes the
 technology has brought to human lives, it is only fitting that the
 dependence of the accused on surety is minimized by giving
 alternative options. Furthermore, there should be no insistence
 to provide permanent addresses when people either do not
 have permanent abodes or intend to re-locate. 13. Given above, provided the petitioner is not required in any other case, the
petitioner shall be released on bail in the FIR captioned above, in the following terms: OR (b). Petitioner to hand over to the concerned court a fixed deposit for Rs.
 Ten thousand only (INR 10,000/-), with the clause of automatic renewal
 of the principal and the interest reverting to the linked account, made in
 favor of the 'Chief Judicial Magistrate' of the concerned district, or
 blocking the aforesaid amount in favour of the concerned 'Chief Judicial
 Magistrate'. Said fixed deposit or blocking funds can be from any of the
 banks where the stake of the State is more than 50% or from any of the
 well-established and stable private sector banks. In case the bankers are
 not willing to make a Fixed Deposit in such eventuality it shall be
 permissible for the petitioner to prepare an account payee demand draft
 favouring concerned Chief Judicial Magistrate for a similar amount. (c). Such court shall have a lien over the funds until the case's closure or
 discharged by substitution, or up to the expiry of the period mentioned
 under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973, and at that stage, subject to the proceedings
 under S. 446 CrPC, the entire amount of fixed deposit, less taxes if any,
 shall be endorsed/returned to the depositor. (d). The petitioner is to also execute a bond for attendance in the
 concerned court(s) as and when asked to do so. The presentation of the
 personal bond shall be deemed acceptance of the declarations made in
 the bail petition and all other stipulations, terms, and conditions of section 438(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and of this bail
 order. (e). While furnishing personal bond, the petitioner shall mention the
 following personal identification details: 14. Given the nature of the allegations and the other circumstances peculiar to this
case, the petitioner shall surrender all weapons, firearms, ammunition, if any, along with
the arms license to the concerned authority within fifteen days from today and inform
the Investigator about the compliance. However, subject to the Indian Arms Act, 1959 ,
the petitioner shall be entitled to renew and take it back in case of acquittal in this case,
provided otherwise permissible in the concerned rules. Restricting firearms would instill
confidence in the victim(s), their families, and society; it would also restrain the accused
from influencing the witnesses and repeating the offence. 15. The petitioner shall not influence, browbeat, pressurize, make any inducement,
threat, or promise, directly or indirectly, to the witnesses, the Police officials, or any
other person acquainted with the facts and the circumstances of the case, to dissuade
them from disclosing such facts to the Police, or the Court, or to tamper with the
evidence. 16. Petitioner to comply with their undertaking made in the bail petition, made
before this court through counsel as reflected at the beginning of this order. If the
petitioner fails to comply with any of such undertakings, then on this ground alone, the
bail might be canceled, and the victim/complainant may file any such application for the
cancellation of bail, and the State shall file the said application. 17. The petitioner is directed not to keep more than one prepaid SIM, i.e., one pre-
paid mobile phone number, till the conclusion of the trial; however, this restriction is
only on prepaid SIMs [mobile numbers] and not on post-paid connections or landline
numbers. The petitioner must comply with this condition within fifteen days of release
from prison. The concerned DySP shall also direct all the telecom service providers to
deactivate all prepaid SIM cards and prepaid mobile numbers issued to the petitioner,
except the one that is mentioned as the primary number/ default number linked with
the AADHAAR card and further that till the no objection from the concerned SHO, the
mobile service providers shall not issue second pre-paid SIM/ mobile number in the
petitioner's name. Since, as on date, in India, there are only four prominent mobile
service providers, namely BSNL, Airtel, Vodafone-Idea, and Reliance Jio, any other
telecom service provider are directed to comply with the directions of the concerned
Superintendent of Police/Commissioner of Police, issued in this regard and disable all 9 9 of 11 ::: Downloaded on - 22-02-2024 02:26:05 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:023661 10 CRM-M-2250-2024
prepaid mobile phone numbers issued in the name of the petitioner, except the main
number/default number linked with AADHAR, by taking such information from the
petitioner's AADHAR details or any other source, for which they shall be legally entitled
by this order. This condition shall continue till the completion of the trial or closure of
the case, whichever is earlier. In Vernon v. The State of Maharashtra , 2023 INSC 655,
[para 45], while granting bail under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 2002 , Supreme
Court had directed imposition of the similar condition, which reads as follows, "(d) Both
the appellants shall use only one Mobile Phone each, during the time they remain on
bail and shall inform the Investigating Officer of the NIA, their respective mobile
numbers." 18. During the trial's pendency, if the petitioner repeats or commits any offence where
the sentence prescribed is more than seven years or violates any condition as stipulated
in this order, it shall always be permissible to the respondent to apply for cancellation of
this bail. It shall further be open for any investigating agency to bring it to the notice of
the Court seized of the subsequent application that the accused was earlier cautioned
not to indulge in criminal activities. Otherwise, the bail bonds shall remain in force
throughout the trial and after that in Section 437-A of the Cr.P.C., if not canceled due to
non-appearance or breach of conditions. 19. The conditions mentioned above imposed by this Court are to endeavour that the
accused tries to reform, does not repeat the offence and to provide an opportunity to
the victim to consider legal remedies for recovery of the amount. In Mohammed Zubair
v. State of NCT of Delhi , 2022:INSC:735 [Para 28], Writ Petition (Criminal) No 279 of
2022, Para 29, decided on July 20, 2022, A Three-Judge bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court
holds that "The bail conditions imposed by the Court must not only have a nexus to the
purpose that they seek to serve but must also be proportional to the purpose of
imposing them. The courts, while imposing bail conditions, must balance the liberty of
the accused and the necessity of a fair trial. While doing so, conditions that would result
in the deprivation of rights and liberties must be eschewed." 20. Any Advocate for the petitioner and the Officer in whose presence the petitioner
puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all conditions of this bail order in any
language that the petitioner understands. 21. If the petitioner finds bail condition(s) as violating fundamental, human, or other
rights, or causing difficulty due to any situation, then for modification of such term(s),
the petitioner may file a reasoned application before this Court, and after taking
cognizance, even to the Court taking cognizance or the trial Court, as the case may be, 10 10 of 11 ::: Downloaded on - 22-02-2024 02:26:05 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:023661 11 CRM-M-2250-2024
and such Court shall also be competent to modify or delete any condition. 22. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
merits of the case nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 23. In return for the protection from incarceration, the Court believes that the accused
shall also reciprocate through desirable behavior. 24. There would be no need for a certified copy of this order for furnishing bonds, and
any Advocate for the Petitioner can download this order along with case status from the
official web page of this Court and attest it to be a true copy. In case the attesting officer
wants to verify the authenticity, such an officer can also verify its authenticity and may
download and use the downloaded copy for attesting bonds. Petition allowed in aforesaid terms. All pending applications, if any, stand disposed.