Criminal Petition No.1637/2019 has been filed by the

petitioner/accused No.1, Criminal Petition No.1631/2019

has been filed by accused No.4, Criminal Petition

No.1725/2019 has been filed by accused No.6, Criminal

Petition No.2039/2019 has been filed by accused No.3,

Criminal Petition No.1620/2019 has been filed by accused

No.10, Criminal Petition No.1237/2019 has been filed by

accused No.2 under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. and Criminal

Petition No.1360/2019 has been filed by accused No.8

under Section 438 of Cr.P.C. to release them on bail and

anticipatory bail in Crime No.19/2019 of R.T.Nagar Police

Station, for the offences punishable under Sections 120B, 406 , 420 , 463 , 464 , 468 , 470 , 471 r/w Section 34 of Indian

Penal Code. 2. I have heard the learned Senior Counsel

Sri.Hashmath Pasha, learned counsels Sri. Raju C.N.,

Sri.Rajesh Rao K., Nisar Sab, Naveed Ahmed, Muzaffar -9- Ahmed, appearing for the petitioners and the learned State

Public prosecutor Sri.Chandramouli and learned counsel

Sri. R.Kothwal for the complainant. 3. Before going to consider the submissions of the

learned counsels appearing for the parties, gist of the

complaint reveals that the respondent-police received the

credible information on 26.1.2019 at about 6.20 p.m. that

some persons involved in creating fake website with a login

number of Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation

and have opened fake bank account, by web-hosting the

application got sanctioned educational loan and have

misappropriated the said amount by getting it transferred

to the private account. Immediately, they went to the spot

and apprehended the accused and there they came to

know that accused No.1 is employed in Minorities

Development Corporation and he has been provided with

login number of Minorities Development Corporation

forwarding application for educational loan under the

Scheme Arivu-2 and for this purpose colluded with other - 10 - accused persons and opened an account in ICICI Bank,

HRBR Layout, in the name of National Academy

Management Institute of Technology College and have

misappropriated the amount. 4. It is the submission of the learned Senior Counsel

appearing for the petitioner/accused No.1 that the

petitioner has been falsely implicated in the alleged crime.

It is further submitted that Section 154 of Cr.P.C.

enumerates that the police is duty bound to proceed to

conduct investigation into a cognizable offence before

registering information about commission of such an

offence is not contemplated in law. If the information about

cognizable offence is received by the Investigation Agencies,

then it mandates that it must be registered in the station

house diary and an FIR has to be issued and if the said

mandate is not followed, it is fatal to the case of the

prosecution. He further submitted that if the provisions of Sections 154 and 157 of Cr.P.C. are not followed, the entire

proceedings are going to be vitiated. In order to - 11 - substantiate his said contention he relied upon the

decision in the case of L.Shankaramurthy and Others Vs.

State by Lokayukta Police reported in (2012) 5 Kant LJ 545,

he also relied upon yet another decision in the case of Lalita Kumari Vs. Government of Uttar Pradesh and Others reported in (2014) 2 SCC 1. It is his further submission that

accused No.1 was working as Second Division Assistant, it

is his only duty to forward the applications to the

sanctioning authority, at the other end it will be opened

and the sanction is going to be given. Accused No.1 is not a

sanctioning authority who leaked the login number to the

sanctioning authority and it is not within the knowledge of

accused No.1. He further submitted that no case has been

registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act and

there is no records to show that the petitioner/accused

No.1 has received any bribe and even there is no

presumption that he has received the bribe. He further

submitted that the offences levelled against the petitioner

are triable by the Court of the Magistrate. The detention of - 12 - the accused prior to the trial will amounts to nothing but

pre-trial conviction. He is ready to abide by the conditions

imposed by this Court and ready to offer the sureties. 5. It is the submission of the learned counsel for the

petitioner/accused No.4 that he has been falsely implicated

in the case and he is not an employee, he is nothing to do

with the activities of the other accused persons. 6. It is the submission of the learned counsel for the

petitioner/accused No.8 that her name is not shown in the

complaint or in any other records. She got engaged with

accused No.4 about a month's back, how the amount has

been transferred in her name is not known to her by

creating the documents, other persons have transferred the

amount. He further submitted that accused No.8 is an

innocent person. 7. The learned counsel for petitioner/accused No.2

also submitted that he is not an employee. He is an human

activist. He only went there, because he was present he - 13 - has been made as an accused. Nothing has been recovered

from the possession of accused No.2. 8. It is the submission of the learned counsel for

accused No.3 that he was the close friend of accused No.1

and only because he is a close friend he has been falsely

implicated in this case. 9. It is the submission of the learned counsel for the

petitioner/accused No.10 that he got married with accused

No.7 and there is no participation or overt acts as against

accused No.10. There is no direct or indirect evidence. He

has been falsely implicated in the said case. It is his

submission that accused No.7 has been released on bail.

On the ground of parity, the petitioner is also entitled to be

released on bail. The learned counsels have supported the argument of

learned Senior Counsel Sri.Hashmath Pasha. 10. The learned counsel for the petitioner accused

No.6 has remained absent, but however, the contentions - 14 - taken in the petition are similar to that of the other

petitions. On these grounds they have prayed to allow the

petitions. 11. Per contra, the learned State Public Prosecutor

vehemently argued and submitted that the accused

persons have been apprehended and the case has been

registered under Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code. All

the accused persons are held liable for conspiracy. He

further submitted that the accused persons by taking

advantage have entered into login and forwarded the

applications. Thereafter, after getting the said loan

sanctioned, the same has been misappropriated. He

further submitted that the said Scheme Arivu-2 is made by

the Government to give benefit for the poor and needy

persons for the purpose of self reliance. But the

petitioners/accused have misappropriated more than 2

Crores. He further submitted that still the investigation is

in progress and this case is not an ordinary case of

cheating, it is a serious economical offence. He further - 15 - submitted by relying upon the decision in the case of Anil

Mahajan Vs. Commissioner of Customs and Another reported in 2000 Crl.LJ 2094 that in case of economical

offences the Court has to be very strict in granting the bail

and such offences are considered to be grave and serious.

He further submitted that undue sympathy and

humanitarian considerations are not the criteria for

granting the bail. He further submitted that by relying

upon the decision in the case of L.R. Nagu @

Nagendramurthy Vs. State of Karnataka in Criminal Appeal

No.559/2012 dated 4.12.2017 submitted that the

Investigating Officer has acted in accordance with Section

157 of Cr.P.C. and no prejudice or failure of justice having

been made out and there is no breach of mandatory

requirements of law or jurisdiction in registering the case.

In that light, merely because the Investigating Officer has

visited the spot and thereafter registering the case is not

having any impact. Now the case is at an ripen stage, still

the investigation has to be conducted and custodial - 16 - interrogation of the accused is necessary. During the

investigation an amount of Rs.92 lakhs has been recovered

from the possession of the accused. If at this juncture, if

the petitioners/accused are enlarged on bail it would send

a wrong signal to the Society. He further submitted that

there is prima facie material as against accused persons for

having committed a serious economic offence and as such

he prays to dismiss the petitions. 12. I have carefully and cautiously gone through the

submissions made by the learned counsel appearing for

the parties and perused the records. 13. Before going to consider the contentions it is

relevant to note that it is well settled principles of law that

presumption of innocence is a human right but there

cannot be presumption of guilt so as to deprive a person of

his liberty without an opportunity before an independent

forum or Court. This proposition of law has been laid

down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Dr.Subhash

Kashinath Mahajan. Vs. State of Maharashtra reported in - 17 - AIR 2018 SCC 1498, at para No.65 it has been observed as

under: Similar provisions have been made in Article 6.2 of the European Convention for the
Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental
Freedoms (1950) and Article 14.2 of the
International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights (1966). xxxx xxxx xxxx 47. We may notice that Sachs, J. in State
v. Coetzee [1997(2)LRC 593] explained the
significance of the presumption of innocence
in the following terms: In view of the above, an accused is
 certainly entitled to show to the Court, if he
 apprehends arrest, that case of the
 complainant was motivated. If it can be so
 shown there is no reason that the Court is not
 able to protect liberty of such a person. There
 cannot be any mandate under the law for
 arrest of an innocent. The law has to be
 interpreted accordingly." 14. The primary purpose of considering the bail in a

criminal case is to relieve the accused from imprisonment

and at the same time to keep the accused constructively in

the custody of the Court assuring that he will submit to the - 22 - jurisdiction of the Court and be in attendance thereon

whenever his presence is required. But at the same time

the Court has to keep in mind the acquisitions made as

against the accused and the gravity of the offence with

which he has been charged. 15. Grant or refusal of the bail is entirely

discretionary, but discretion should be used depending

upon the facts and circumstances of each case. The

Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Siddharam Satlingappa

Mhetre Vs. State of Maharashtra and Others reported in

(2011) 1 SCC 694 has observed as to what are the

parameters that can be considered into by the Court while

dealing with the bail application. Para No.112 reads thus: previously undergone imprisonment on
conviction by a court in respect of any cognizable
offence; (iii) The possibility of the applicant to flee
from justice; (iv) The possibility of the accused's
likelihood to repeat similar or other offences; (v) Where the accusations have been made
only with the object of injuring or humiliating the
applicant by arresting him or her; (vi) Impact of grant of anticipatory bail
particularly in cases of large magnitude affecting
a very large number of people; (vii) The courts must evaluate the entire
available material against the accused very
carefully. The court must also clearly
comprehend the exact role of the accused in the
case. The cases in which the accused is
implicated with the help of Sections 34 and 149
of the Penal Code, 1860 the court should
consider with even greater care and caution
because overimplication in the cases is a matter
of common knowledge and concern; (viii) While considering the prayer for grant
of anticipatory bail, a balance has to be struck - 24 - between two factors, namely, no prejudice
 should be caused to the free, fair and full
 investigation and there should be prevention of
 harassment, humiliation and unjustified
 detention of the accused; (ix) The court to consider reasonable
 apprehension of tampering of the witness or
 apprehension of threat to the complainant; (x) Frivolity in prosecution should always be
 considered and it is only the element of
 genuineness that shall have to be considered in
 the matter of grant of bail and in the event of
 there being some doubt as to the genuineness of
 the prosecution, in the normal course of events,
 the accused is entitled to an order of bail." 16. Keeping in view the above said proposition of law

and other aspects let me consider the case of the

prosecution on hand. It is alleged by the prosecution that the accused No.1

by creating a fake website with a login number of

Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation forwarded

the application of loan, thereafter they have opened fake - 25 - bank account and got sanctioned educational loan and

have misappropriated the said funds which is under the

Scheme of Arivu-2. I have carefully and cautiously gone

through the submissions made by the learned counsel

appearing for the petitioners and State Public prosecutor

for respondent-State. 17. By going through the records though the

investigation is at an initial stage, as could be seen from

the allegations made, without getting the sanction from the

superior authorities it is highly impossible to open the

login number and by creating a fake website and opening

the bank account sanctioning the loan. There will be

different methods to sanction such loan. The sanctioning

authority will be having a different login number and he

has to use the password and thereafter he has to sanction

the loan and the same is going to be sent to the treasury

Khajana-2 and there the treasury authority shall also verify

about the sanction, thereafter the amount is going to be

released. Mere forwarding of the application is not - 26 - sufficient in this behalf. That does not mean that the

accused persons have not involved in the alleged crime

because of the reason that an amount of Rs.92 lakhs has

been recovered from the possession of the accused. The

accused has to explain under what circumstances he

received such a big amount, even the other accused

persons have also received the amount. Who opened the

accounts in the bank and whether the bank authorities are

also colluded is also a matter which has to be considered

and appreciated after due investigation. 18. As could be seen from the records already

accused Nos.1, 4, 6, 3, 10 and 2 are in custody. Already

the Investigating Officer has interrogated them sufficiently

and the recoveries have also been done. The investigation

may take some more time. If the petitioners/accused are

kept in prison, then it will amounts to nothing but pre-trial

conviction which is not advisable. Insofar as petitioner/accused No.8 is concerned he

has applied for anticipatory bail and he has not been - 27 - interrogated or investigated in this behalf. Under such

circumstances when a serious allegations have been made,

it is not a fit case to release petitioner/accused No.8 on

anticipatory bail. 19. I have gone through the decisions in the case of

Anil Mahajan and also L.R.Nagu @ Nagendramurthy quoted

supra, therein it has been observed that in case of

economic offences they constituted a class apart and need

to be visited with a different approach in the matter of the

bail. Because of the reason that the economic offences are

having deep rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of

public funds need to be viewed seriously. But at the same

time the Court has to keep in mind the nature of the

acquisition, the nature of the evidence in support thereof,

the severity of the punishment which conviction will

maintain, the character of the accused, circumstances

which are peculiar to the accused, reasonable possibility of

securing the presence of the accused at the time of trial,

reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being tampered - 28 - with, the larger interest of the public, State and other

similar consideration. This proposition of law has also been laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation reported in (2013) 7 SCC 439. 20. Keeping in view the ratio laid down in the above

decisions, on perusal of the entire records, during the

course of the investigation there are some lacunas. Without

discussing much about the said aspect, I am of the

considered opinion that the alleged offences are triable by

the Court of the Magistrate and petitioners/accused are

already in custody and they will be available for the

purpose of further investigation or interrogation and even

the alleged offences are not punishable with death or

imprisonment for life. Apart from that accused No.1 is a

Government Official and he fleeing away from justice or

absconding is very rare. If by imposing stringent

conditions, if the petitioners/accused are enlarged on bail,

it is going to meet the ends of justice. - 29 - 21. In the light of the discussions held by me above,

Criminal Petition No.1360/2019 is dismissed. Criminal Petition Nos.1637/2019, 1631/2019,

1725/2019, 2039/2019, 1620/2019, 1237/2019 are

allowed and petitioners/accused No.1, 4, 6, 3, 10 and 2 are

ordered to be released on bail in Crime No.19/2019 of

R.T.Nagar Police Station, subject to following conditions: (Rupees Five Lakhs only) with two solvent
 sureties each for the likesum to the
 satisfaction of the trial Court. ii) They shall not tamper with the prosecution
 evidence directly or indirectly. iii) They shall mark their attendance in the
 jurisdictional police once in 15 days between
 10.00 A.M. and 5.00 P.M. till the trial is
 concluded. iv) They shall not leave the jurisdiction of the
 Court without prior permission of the Court. v) They should be available for the purpose of
 investigation or interrogation as and when
 they are required to do so. - 30 - vi) They shall not leave the Country and they
 should surrender their passports to the
 jurisdictional Court before they are going to
 be released from the jail. vii) They shall not indulged in similar type of
 criminal activities. Sd/- JUDGE

*AP/-