Index to the Judgment
 FACTUAL BACKGROUND ...................................................................2 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 1 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 SUBMISSIONS BEFORE THIS COURT .............................................9
 Submissions on behalf of Petitioner ................................................................. 9
 Submissions on behalf of Directorate of Enforcement ............................... 12
 Submissions on behalf of State ........................................................................ 14
 ANALYSIS & FINDINGS .................................................................... 15
 Relevant Provisions of Law .............................................................................. 15
 Interplay between Section 17 & 8 of PMLA and Rule 3 & 4 of PMLA
 Rules of 2013 ...................................................................................................... 20
 Whether the proceedings carried out in this case by the Directorate of
 Enforcement are as per law? ............................................................................ 21
 Whether Vehicles are subject to natural decay? ............................................. 23
 Conclusion .......................................................................................................... 28

 SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J. 1. The present writ petition under Article 226 of Constitution of
 India read with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
 (' Cr.P.C .') has been filed by the petitioner for quashing and setting
 aside of impugned orders dated 20.12.2022 and 15.02.2023 passed by
 learned Additional Sessions Judge-03, Patiala House Courts, New
 Delhi. FACTUAL BACKGROUND 2. Mrs. Leena Paulose, the petitioner herein who as per her
 pleadings states that she is a model, actor, business woman, dentist
 with strong roots in society and belongs to a respectable family
 hailing from Perumbavoor, Kerala, had got married to Mr. Sukash
 Channdersekhar on 18.07.2014. After marriage, they both lived
 together in Bangalore and Chennai. 3. In August 2021, the Special Cell of the Delhi Police had
 registered an FIR against unknown individuals for orchestrating a
 criminal conspiracy. The conspirators, pretending to be high-ranking
 government officials, had extorted approximately Rs. 200 crores
 from a complainant, Mrs. Aditi Singh. The ordeal began when Mrs.
 Singh had received a call from a man, claiming to be the Law
 Secretary of India, who had offered to assist her in her legal battles
 including obtaining bail for her husband. He had directed her to
 communicate with his junior officer, Abhinav, via Telegram.
 Abhinav had convinced her that she was under surveillance and had
 pressured her to contribute Rs. 20 crores to a party fund, which she
 had managed to arrange through various means. Later, the man had
 demanded an additional Rs. 130 crores, and had extended threats to
 her. Succumbing to the pressure, Mrs. Singh had ended up paying
 around Rs. 200 crores. Investigations later revealed that the
 petitioner‟s husband Mr. Sukash Channdersekhar, an inmate of Tihar
 Jail, had orchestrated the entire scam, and by using spoof calls, he
 had impersonated senior government officials and, along with his
 accomplices, he had defrauded and extorted a significant sum from
 Mrs. Aditi Singh. 4. On the basis of these allegations, an FIR bearing no. 208/2021
 was registered on 07.08.2021 under Sections 170 , 384 , 386 , 388 , 419 , 420 , 506 and 120B of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (' IPC ') and Section
 66D of Information Technology Act, 2000. On the same day, the
 petitioner herein was arrested. Since some of these sections were
 scheduled offences under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 3 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 ('PMLA'), an ECIR number ECIR/DLlO-11/54/2021 was recorded
 on 08.08.2021 by the Directorate of Enforcement to investigate the
 offence of money laundering under PMLA. 5. The investigation into Mr. Sukash Channdersekhar activities
 revealed that his wife, Mrs. Leena Paulose, was also implicated in
 previous cases alongwith him. During a probe under the PMLA, the
 Directorate of Enforcement had searched the residence of Mrs. Leena
 Paulose in Chennai on 16.08.2021, suspecting that it would contain
 records relating to money laundering and proceeds of crime. This
 search under Section 17 of PMLA led to recovery and seizure of
 several property documents, utensils made of white metals, electronic
 items, and sixteen luxury cars. 6. In her statement recorded by the Directorate of Enforcement,
 Mrs. Paulose disclosed that she had spent approximately Rs. 4 crores
 on the luxurious interior design of the property, stating that her
 husband enjoyed a flamboyant lifestyle, but she was unaware as to
 why so much money was spent on the interiors. She also disclosed
 that her husband Sukash had arranged for the furniture and decorative
 items, and some payments had been made in cash provided by him.
 She also mentioned that she was not even aware of the owner of the
 property in question, except the name of the company. With respect
 to the sixteen cars seized during the search, Mrs. Paulose stated that
 these cars were used by her husband whenever he visited Chennai,
 and thus, he must have been the owner of all these cars. 7. During investigation, it was revealed that certain luxury
 vehicles of Mr. Sukash Channdersekhar/Mrs. Leena Paulose were Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 4 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 kept at the business premises of M/s Titanium Motors, Chennai, and
 thus, the said premises was also searched, leading to recovery of one
 more luxury vehicle. Investigation further revealed that one other
 luxury car, owned by Mrs. Leena Paulose through her proprietary
 concern namely M/s Super Car Artistry had been given to M/s
 Lanson Toyota in Chennai for repairing, which was then seized after
 conducting a search at the premises of M/s Lanson Toyota. It was
 also revealed that one associate of Mr. Sukash Chandrasekhar i.e. Mr.
 Arun Muthu had also purchased some high-end cars, which had been
 funded by Mr. Sukash. Therefore, a search had also been conducted
 at the residence of Mr. Arun Muthu, which led to seizure of four
 vehicles. It was also revealed that some vehicles of Mr. Sukash
 Chandrasekhar/Mrs. Leena Paulose were kept at the business
 premises of one Mr. Karthik, located in Chennai. Pursuant to search
 conducted at this premises, four more cars were recovered and seized
 by the Directorate of Enforcement. 8. The investigation further revealed that Mr. Sukash had
 purchased these cars either in the name of some firms of his wife or
 third parties, and had made cash payments through his associates Mr.
 B. Mohanraj, Mr. Arun Muthu, etc. and further had legitimized the
 transactions with rent agreements. Significant commissions were paid
 to associates and third parties involved. These twenty-six (26)
 vehicles were found to be acquired using proceeds from criminal
 activities and were retained for further investigation and potential
 confiscation under PMLA. 9. In October 2021, Mr. Sukash Channdersekhar and seven other Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 5 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 accuseds including the petitioner Mrs. Leena Paulose were arrested
 by the Directorate of Enforcement. On 04.12.2021, prosecution
 complaint was filed before the Special PMLA Court, Patiala House
 Court against all eight accused persons and cognizance was taken by
 the Court. 10. The Directorate of Enforcement had thereafter filed
 applications for retention of seized/frozen properties and records in
 accordance with Section 17(4) of PMLA before the Adjudicating
 Authority, for adjudication under Section 8(3) of PMLA. These
 original applications bearing OA Nos. 555, 558, 559, 565 and 572 of
 2021 were allowed by the Adjudicating Authority. 11. Pursuant thereto, an application was moved by Directorate of
 Enforcement in the month of June, 2022, seeking permission in terms
 of Rule 4(2) of the Prevention of Money Laundering (Taking
 possession of attached or frozen properties confirmed by
 Adjudicating Authority), Rules 2013 ('Rules of 2013') for the
 disposal of the vehicles, seized by it during searches conducted under section 17 of PMLA, which was confirmed by the Adjudicating
 Authority vide its respective orders. 12. The learned Additional Sessions Judge-03, Patiala House
 Courts, New Delhi, vide impugned order dated 20.12.2022 granted
 the possession of the abovesaid 26 vehicles to the Directorate of
 Enforcement for disposal in accordance with law and the Rules of
 2013. The relevant portion of the same reads as under: 13. Thereafter, an application was moved by the State praying that
 the Directorate of Enforcement be directed to not dispose of the said
 vehicles without prior intimation to the Delhi Police/ Economic
 Offences Wing. The petitioner herein i.e. Mrs. Leena Paulose had
 also filed her objections to the prayer of Directorate of Enforcement,
 for sale of vehicles in question. 14. After considering the submissions made on behalf of all the
 parties, the learned Additional Sessions Judge vide order dated
 14.02.2023 held that the Directorate of Enforcement was at liberty to
 proceed ahead to dispose off the 26 vehicles as per Rule 4 of
 Prevention of Money Laundering (Taking Possession of Attached or
 Frozen Properties Confirmed by Adjudicatory Authority), Rules
 2013. It was further directed that the Directorate of Enforcement
 would file the report regarding disposal of those vehicles and further
 that the representative of Delhi Police/ Economic Offences Wing can Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 7 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 also participate in the process of auction of those vehicles. The
 relevant portion of order dated 14.02.2023 is extracted hereunder: 15. The above-mentioned orders dated 20.12.2022 and 14.02.2023,
 and the action of respondent i.e. Directorate of Enforcement of
 selling the 26 vehicles seized in the present case, has been challenged
 by the petitioner by way of present petition. SUBMISSIONS BEFORE THIS COURT

 Submissions on behalf of Petitioner 16. Learned counsel, appearing on behalf of petitioner Mrs. Leena
 Paulose, argues that the petitioner is suffering from depression with
 memory loss, after prolonged isolated life in jail for more than 16
 months; however, she is able to remember that two cars i.e. Rolls
 Royce Ghost with registration no. DC12CA8000 and Brabus with
 registration no. HP12L0850, were purchased in the year 2018 i.e.
 much prior to the date of the alleged offence and by any stretch of
 imagination, these cars cannot come under the ambit and scope of
 proceeds of crime. It is submitted that the petitioner also remembers
 that 3 cars were taken on rent out of which one is Bently Bentyagga
 having registration no. HR26DE0016, but she is unable to recollect
 about the details of the other cars. It is stated that seizure of these cars Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 9 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 is illegal and arbitrary. It is stated that the learned Trial Court has
 also failed to take into account these facts. 17. It is also argued on behalf of the petitioner that intent and
 content of Section 8(6) of PMLA has also to be kept in mind which
 provides that on conclusion of trial under PMLA, if the Special Court
 finds, that the offence of money laundering has not taken place or the
 property is not involved in money laundering, it shall order release of
 such property to the person entitled to receive it. Therefore, it is
 argued that till the conclusion of trial in this case, the property seized
 by the Directorate of Enforcement ought not to be disposed of since
 the accused persons would be entitled to receive the same back if
 they are found not guilty of the alleged offence. 18. It is also stated that the order passed by the Adjudicating
 Authority clearly states that the documents/ records/ vehicle/
 Electronic items/ digital devices can be retained for the purpose of
 „investigation and adjudication‟. It is further stated that there is
 nothing in the said order which grants a substantial right to the
 Directorate of Enforcement to entitle them to confiscate the property
 of petitioner. It is stated that the respondent can merely retain the
 property but it cannot dispose it off. It is argued that the learned ASJ
 has failed to appreciate these facts. 19. It is stated that petitioner is aged about 40 years, who is
 suffering from depression, after prolonged isolated life in jail for
 more than 15 months, all away from near and dear ones despite the
 fact that she is totally innocent. It is also stated that petitioner does
 not remember the complete facts about the business activities of M/s Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 10 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 Super Car Artistry, having client service for buying and selling cars.
 It is stated that after the arrest of the petitioner and questioning of her
 near and dear ones, the professional associates such as Chartered
 Accountants etc. had started distancing themselves from the
 petitioner. The petitioner was not allowed professional meetings with
 her staff and associates and, therefore, she is unable to cross check
 the business transactions of the firm for the purpose of answering the
 queries of the Directorate of Enforcement. It is stated that the
 petitioner has been implicated in the present case only for the reason
 of being wife of accused no. 1 i.e. Mr. Sukash Chandrasekhar and
 that she was having an independent business in the name of M/s
 Super Car Artistry for buying and selling cars. It is also argued that
 most of the cars are taken on legally valid Loan Agreements and the
 petitioner was paying the EMI for the same without fail. 20. It is also argued that any action of the respondent, of selling
 the cars, will go to the root of the Articles 14 , 19 and 21 of the
 Constitution of India as the chances of a dignified life to the
 petitioner will be denied to her and ignoring the fact that 26 cars are
 essential for her business activities. It is also argued that out of 26
 cars, she is emotionally connected with some of the cars and once
 sold, no amount of money can get it back. It is also stated that just
 because she is the wife of the main accused, the same should not
 mean the end of dignified life for her. It is stated that most
 unfortunately, the entire pleadings of the respondent about the
 present petitioner is about her being the wife of the main accused and
 nowhere they have considered her status as an independent Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 11 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 professional paying huge tax to the Government and the earnings out
 of her business, which is against the idea of „gender equality‟. 21. It is accordingly prayed that the impugned orders passed in this
 case be set aside, and the respondent be directed to immediately halt
 the process of sale of 26 vehicles in question. Submissions on behalf of Directorate of Enforcement 22. Learned Special Counsel, appearing on behalf of the
 Directorate of Enforcement, submits that the present petition has
 become infructuous since in view of the impugned orders dated
 20.12.2022 and 14.02.2023 passed by the learned Additional
 Sessions Judge, 17 cars out of 26 cars have already been auctioned
 after following the due process. 23. It is submitted that as per the directions of the learned
 Additional Sessions Judge, first round of E-auction had concluded on
 11.08.2023 through MSTC, a Government of India Undertaking, as a
 result of which two cars were sold at combined sale price of approx
 Rs. 1.35 crores. Further, the second round of e-auction was held on
 29/30.09.2023, in which 15 cars were sold at a combined sale price of
 approx. Rs. 19.04 crores, and all the developments of e-auction are
 being informed to the EOW, Delhi. 24. It is stated that in this case, total 34 Original Applications had
 been filed for retention of seized properties/records, and the
 Adjudicating Authority had confirmed retention of the 26 cars in
 question. Thereafter, an application was moved by Directorate of
 Enforcement in the month of June, 2022, seeking permission in terms Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 12 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 of Rule 4(2) of the Prevention of Money Laundering (Taking
 possession of attached or frozen properties confirmed by
 Adjudicating Authority), Rules, 2013 for the disposal of the vehicles,
 seized during searches conducted under section 17 of PMLA. The
 learned Additional Sessions Judge had thereafter granted the
 possession of the above-said 26 vehicles to the Directorate of
 Enforcement for disposal in accordance with law and the Rules of
 2013, vide order dated 20.12.2022. 25. It is submitted that pursuant thereto, another application was
 moved by the State (EOW) with the prayer for giving directions to
 Directorate of Enforcement, not to dispose off the vehicles seized
 during investigation, without prior intimation to Delhi Police/EOW.
 Further, a reply to the was also filed on behalf of the present
 petitioner objecting to sale/disposal of 26 vehicles. The Directorate of
 Enforcement in its reply had submitted that the amount received
 from the disposal of the vehicles will be kept available for transfer to
 the actual claimant. It is argued that after having considered the
 submissions on behalf of all the parties, learned Additional Sessions
 Judge in continuation of its earlier order dated 20.12.2022, directed
 vide order dated 14.02.2023 that the Directorate of Enforcement was
 at liberty to proceed ahead to dispose of the 26 vehicles as per Rule 4
 of Prevention of Money Laundering (Taking Possession of Attached
 or Frozen Properties Confirmed by Adjudicatory Authority), Rules
 2013. It was also ordered that the representative of EOW can
 participate in the process of auction of those vehicles so that they can
 also record the proceedings for the purpose of records this case. 26. Therefore, it is prayed that the present petition be dismissed
 since the proceedings carried out by the Directorate of Enforcement
 are as per law. Submissions on behalf of State 27. Learned ASC, appearing on behalf of the State, argues that as
 per the provisions of MCOCA, every proceed of crime generated
 through commission of organized crime in the last 10 years by the
 members of the organized crime syndicate, before registration of FIR
 under the provisions of MCOCA, can be attached by the
 Investigating Agency. It is stated that in the present case, FIR was
 registered in the year 2021; therefore, any property, movable or
 immovable, gathered in the last 10 years, i.e. from 2011 to 2021,
 from the commission of organized crime can be seized by the
 Investigating Agency. It is submitted that all the 26 cars in question
 were purchased by the organized crime syndicate members within a
 period of last 10 years. It is submitted that since offences of FIR No.
 208/2021 fall within the scheduled offences under the PMLA, the
 Directorate of Enforcement had registered the ECIR in question, and
 the 26 cars in question were seized by the Directorate of
 Enforcement. 28. It is further argued that investigation in this case had revealed
 that these cars were purchased/procured/leased using proceeds of the
 crime generated from the commission of the organised crime by
 indulging in continuing unlawful activity in the last 10 years. It is
 also submitted that the petitioner herein has not challenged the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 14 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 seizure memo in this case yet before any Court of law. Therefore, it is
 prayed that the present petition be dismissed. 29. This Court has heard arguments addressed by learned counsel
 for the petitioner as well as learned Special Counsel for the
 Directorate of Enforcement, and has gone through the material placed
 on record by both the sides. ANALYSIS & FINDINGS

 Relevant Provisions of Law 30. Before appreciating the rival contentions raised before this
 Court, it shall be appropriate to take note of a few relevant provisions
 of PMLA, essential for the adjudication of controversy in question. 31. Section 17 of PMLA, which grants the power of search and
 seizure to the Directorate of Enforcement, is extracted hereunder: section (1) or freezing any record or property under sub-
 section (1A) shall, within a period of thirty days from such
 seizure or freezing, as the case may be, file an application,
 requesting for retention of such record or property seized
 under sub-section (1) or for continuation of the order of
 freezing served under sub-section (1A), before the
 Adjudicating Authority." (emphasis supplied) 32. Section 8 of PMLA, which confers the power of „adjudication‟
 upon the Adjudicating Authority, reads as under: section (2) that any property is involved in money-
 laundering, he shall, by an order in writing, confirm the
 attachment of the property made under subsection (1) of section 5 or retention of property or record seized or frozen
 under section 17 or section 18 and record a finding to that
 effect, whereupon such attachment or retention or freezing
 of the seized or frozen property or record shall-- Explanation.--For the purposes of computing the period of
 three hundred and sixty-five days under clause (a), the period
 during which the investigation is stayed by any court under any
 law for the time being in force shall be excluded. (4) Where the provisional order of attachment made under
 sub-section (1) of section 5 has been confirmed under sub-
 section (3), the Director or any other officer authorised by
 him in this behalf shall forthwith take the possession of the
 property attached under section 5 or frozen under sub-
 section (1A) of section 17 , in such manner as may be
 prescribed: 33. Insofar as the manner of taking possession of attached or
 frozen properties, confirmed by Adjudicating Authority is concerned,
 the same has been dealt with by Prevention of Money Laundering
 (Taking Possession of Attached or Frozen Properties Confirmed by
 Adjudicatory Authority), Rules 2013. Relevant rules, i.e. Rule 3 and
 4, are extracted hereunder for reference: section (3) of section 8 of the Act is a movable property, the
 authorized officer shall take physical possession of such
 property and deposit it in a warehouse or a storage place.
 (2) Where the attached property confirmed by the
 Adjudicating Authority, is liable to speedy and natural
 decay or the expense of maintenance is likely to exceed its
 value, the authorized officer shall sell such property with
 the leave of the concerned Special Court or Adjudicating
 Authority, as the case may be, and deposit the sale proceeds
 in the nearest Government Treasury or branch of the State
 Bank of India or its subsidiaries or in any nationalised
 bank in fixed deposit and retain the receipt thereof: (emphasis supplied)

 Interplay between Section 17 & 8 of PMLA and Rule 3 & 4 of
 PMLA Rules of 2013 34. A careful perusal of the above-mentioned provisions of PMLA
 and PMLA Rules of 2013 would reveal as follows: After following the procedure as provided under Section 8(1) ,
 the Authority has to then decide as to whether all or any of
 the properties are involved in money laundering. In case the
 Adjudicating Authority reaches a conclusion that any property
 is involved in money laundering, the Authority can, in writing, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 20 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 confirm the retention of property seized/frozen under Section 17 of PMLA. Thereafter, the Directorate of
 Enforcement is required to take the possession of the
 property frozen under Section 17 of PMLA, in such manner
 as may be prescribed. (iii) Rule 4 of Prevention of Money Laundering (Taking
 Possession of Attached or Frozen Properties Confirmed by
 Adjudicatory Authority), Rules 2013 provides that where the
 attached property confirmed by the Adjudicating
 Authority, is liable to speedy and natural decay or the
 expense of maintenance is likely to exceed its value, the
 authorized officer shall sell such property with the leave of
 the concerned Special Court or Adjudicating Authority, as
 the case may be, and deposit the sale proceeds in the nearest
 Government Treasury or branch of the State Bank of India or
 its subsidiaries or in any nationalised bank in fixed deposit and
 retain the receipt thereof. Whether the proceedings carried out in this case by the
 Directorate of Enforcement are as per law? 35. Having gone through the records of the case, this Court is of
 the opinion that in the present case, in order to collect the records
 relating to the money laundering and to trace proceeds of crime
 involved in money laundering, the Directorate of Enforcement had
 carried out search under Section 17 of PMLA at several locations and
 premises. In this process, a total of 26 luxury and high-end cars were Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 21 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 found and seized by the respondent, which were prima facie found to
 have been purchased out of the "proceeds of crime" generated out of
 the criminal activities of Mr. Sukash Channdersekhar. 36. In compliance of Section 17(4) of PMLA, the Directorate of
 Enforcement had filed five original applications bearing numbers
 OA Nos. 555, 558, 559, 565 and 572 of 2021. The common prayers
 in all these applications were as follows: (emphasis supplied) 37. The applications preferred by the Directorate of Enforcement
 were allowed by the Adjudicating Authority vide orders dated
 19.04.2022, 24.05.2022 and 25.05.2022. It is important to note that
 none of these orders has been challenged by the petitioner herein,
 as revealed from the contents of petition. 38. At this juncture, it is to be noted that since the applications
 filed under Section 17(4) had been allowed by the Adjudicating
 Authority under Section 8 of PMLA, the officer concerned of
 Directorate of Enforcement was then required to take possession of
 the said properties, records, etc. 39. It is the case of respondent that since the 26 luxury cars i.e. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 22 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 movable properties, which had been approved to be retained by the
 Adjudicating Authority, were liable to speedy and natural decay and
 since the expenses of maintenance of the said vehicles were likely to
 exceed their value and cause unnecessary burden upon the exchequer,
 an appropriate application was moved before the learned ASJ seeking
 permission under Rule 4(2) of Prevention of Money Laundering
 (Taking Possession of Attached or Frozen Properties Confirmed by
 Adjudicatory Authority), Rules 2013, for the sale of vehicles in
 question, in accordance with the procedure prescribed under the said
 rule. The same was allowed by the learned ASJ vide impugned order
 dated 20.12.2022. 40. Thus, a bare perusal of the record leads to only one conclusion
 that the procedure followed by the respondent was in accordance
 with the provisions of PMLA and the Rules of 2013. Even the
 petitioner, neither through the contents of the petition nor during the
 course of arguments, has been able to point out any infirmity in the
 above-mentioned process followed by the respondent. Further, the
 validity of the relevant rule(s) of Rules of 2013, as referred
 hereinabove, has also not been assailed before this Court by the
 petitioner herein. Whether Vehicles are subject to natural decay? 41. Rule 4 of Prevention of Money Laundering (Taking
 Possession of Attached or Frozen Properties Confirmed by
 Adjudicatory Authority), Rules 2013 provides the manner of taking
 possession of movable properties is concerned, which clearly outlines Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 23 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 as follows: 42. The applicability of Rule 4(2) has not been disputed by the
 petitioner Mrs. Leena Paulose. It is the specific case of respondent
 that the 26 cars in question, which are expensive and luxury cars, are
 those movable properties which are subject to natural decay or the
 expense of their maintenance is likely to exceed its value. No
 argument has been addressed on behalf of the petitioner that the
 vehicles in question are not subject to natural decay. 43. This Court is further of the opinion that vehicles are
 inherently subject to natural decay and depreciation over a period of
 time, which significantly impacts their value and functionality. With
 the passage of time, vehicles undergo wear and tear. Further, storing
 a vehicle in a container warehouse, as in the present case, for a long
 period of time results in decay since if a car is left stationary for Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 24 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 years, several issues can compromise its condition. Environmental
 factors such as weather conditions also contribute to this decay,
 causing issues such as rust and corrosion. Rust, in particular, can
 severely damage a vehicle‟s structure and all other components.
 Moreover, mechanical components of a vehicle also suffer from
 decay, requiring frequent and expensive maintenance to keep the
 vehicle operational, especially in the present case, where the vehicles
 involved are 26 high-end luxury cars such as Rolls Royce, Ferrari,
 Range Rover etc. The upkeep and maintenance of the same is also
 expensive. In container warehouses, the care and protection cars
 require, from environmental onslaughts and decay due to rusting,
 cannot be ensured. 44. The depreciation of vehicles is also a well-recognized
 phenomenon in the automobile industry. From the moment a car is
 driven out of the showroom, its value begins to decrease. This
 depreciation accelerates with each passing year, and the resale value
 drops substantially. After some years, most vehicles lose a significant
 part of their original value, making them less economically viable to
 maintain or sell. 45. In this background, this Court also takes note of the
 observations of the Coordinate Bench in case of Manjit Singh v.
 State 2014 DHC 4541 wherein it was observed, though in context of
 release of vehicles on superdari, that vehicles which deteriorate with
 time must be disposed of speedily. The relevant observations are
 extracted hereunder: (Emphasis supplied) 46. Therefore, the relevant rules of PMLA which allow the sale of
 seized vehicles and depositing the proceeds of the same into a fixed
 deposit addresses the above-mentioned issues. For the accused, if the
 trial concludes in his favor after several years, he would receive the
 monetary value rather than a decayed, non-operational, rusted
 vehicle, almost reduced to junk. This ensures the accused does not
 suffer any financial loss due to the prolonged judicial process. For the
 investigating agency, this approach ensures that the value of the
 seized properties will be available to the investigating agency if the
 trial concludes in their favour. 47. Therefore, by converting the sale proceeds of a movable
 property subject to natural decay, such as a vehicle, into an interest-
 bearing fixed deposit, the Rule ensures that the value of seized
 properties is preserved and potentially increased, thereby ensuring
 equal justice to either of the party, regardless of the trial‟s duration.
 In this manner, both the right of an accused as well as the right of the
 investigating agency is protected, since a piece of junk or scrap is of
 no use to either of them. 48. It is also significant to note that proviso to aforesaid Rule 4(2)
 provides that where the owner of the property furnishes the fixed
 deposit receipt of a nationalised bank equivalent to the value of
 property in the name of the Director of Enforcement, the authorised
 officer may accept and retain such fixed deposit receipt as security
 and send a report to the Special Court or Adjudicating Authority, for
 information and appropriate action, and not sell the property. 49. However, in the present case, the petitioner herein has not
 made any request whatsoever in terms of proviso to Rule 4(2) that in
 exchange of any fixed deposit receipt equivalent to the value of cars
 furnished by her, the cars in question be not sold by the Directorate
 of Enforcement. 50. Furthermore, though it has been contended on behalf of the
 petitioner that Section 8(6) of PMLA provides for release of property
 seized and retained under PMLA, if the accused is found not guilty
 after conclusion of trial and is therefore acquitted, this Court is of
 the view that a provision of law cannot be read in isolation and
 rather, has to be read as a whole. As noted in the preceding
 discussion also, Section 8(4) of PMLA itself provides that after an
 order is passed under Section 8(3) by the Adjudicating Authority, the
 concerned officer of Directorate of Enforcement has to take
 possession of the properties in such "manner as provided". This
 „manner‟ has been provided under Prevention of Money Laundering
 (Taking Possession of Attached or Frozen Properties Confirmed by
 Adjudicatory Authority), Rules 2013, which have been framed by
 the Central Government in exercise of power under Section 73 of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 27 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 PMLA. This procedure has been explained in detail in the preceding
 paragraphs. 51. Therefore, there is no merit in the argument that the sale of
 seized vehicles in this case is against the mandate of Section 8(6) of
 PMLA. Needless to say, as per Section 8(6) , if the accused persons in
 this case are found not guilty of offence of money laundering, they
 would be entitled to receive the amount generated from selling the
 movable property i.e. cars in the present case, which the Directorate
 of Enforcement is obliged to keep deposited in the nearest
 Government Treasury or branch of the State Bank of India or its
 subsidiaries or in any nationalised bank in fixed deposit. Conclusion 52. This Court has also considered the arguments presented on
 behalf of Mrs. Leena Paulose, who claims to be a model, actor,
 dentist, and successful businesswoman. She has also claimed her
 involvement in various business activities, including M/s Super Car
 Artistry. However, her statements contain contradictions and
 inconsistencies, which this Court will address in the following
 paragraphs. 53. On the one hand, Mrs. Leena Paulose states that she is a
 model, actor, dentist and an independent successful business woman,
 having various business activities including M/s Super Car Artistry,
 and that she has been implicated in the present case solely because
 she is the wife of the main accused in this case. However, on the
 other hand, she states in her application dated 31.08.2022 filed before Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 28 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 the learned Trial Court, that as a dutiful wife, she had complied with
 the suggestions/demands of her husband Mr. Sukash Channdersekhar
 without understanding various alleged legal issues and consequences
 involved, as she was made to understand that the amount credited in
 her account are all loans and a part of business. In this regard, the
 relevant portion of application dated 31.08.2022 is extracted
 hereunder: 54. Therefore, Mrs. Paulose has presented a contradictory stance in
 her defence before this Court. On one hand, she portrays herself as a
 successful and independent individual, which starkly contrasts with
 her statements made before the learned ASJ where she has portrayed
 herself as a dutiful wife who had complied with her husband‟s
 suggestions and demands. Thus, if Mrs. Paulose is indeed an
 independent business woman as she claims, it is hard to believe that
 she would be unaware of the legal implications of significant
 financial transactions in her bank accounts made by her husband i.e.
 Mr. Sukash Channdersekhar. If she was genuinely unaware and
 simply following her husband‟s directives, it contradicts her claim of
 being an independent businesswoman, having an identity of her own, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 29 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 who knew what she was doing. 55. Further, this court notes that, in one breath, she states that she
 is suffering from depression with memory loss due to prolonged
 incarceration and she does not remember any details of the cars in
 question except 5 cars, and in the other, she states that most of the
 cars were taken on loans, based on legally valid loan agreements and
 she was paying the EMIs for the same without fail and the said cars
 are essential for continuing with her business activities. 56. The petitioner also states that these 26 cars are essential for
 continuing with her business activities, but at the same time, she
 mentions in the petition that she does not even remember the
 complete facts about her business M/s Super Car Artistry. Likewise,
 she further states that she is emotionally connected with some of
 these cars and once sold, no amount of money can get it back.
 However, at the same time, it is important to note that at-least 8 cars
 were not even recovered from the residential or business premises of
 the petitioner Mrs. Leena Paulose, but from the premises of Mr. Arun
 Muthu and Mr. Karthik. Strangely, the petitioner does not even
 remember the make and registration number of the cars in question,
 nor does she know where the registration papers and other relevant
 documents of the cars in question were, which belie her contentions.
 The argument regarding emotional connection with some of the cars
 in question is also not palatable since neither the restriction of such
 cars nor the reason for the emotional connect was provided in the
 pleadings or during arguments. Even otherwise, when one does not
 even have the knowledge about majority of the cars or other details, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 30 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 where will be the question of emotional attachment with any of them. 57. A reasonable human being, who is able to purchase 26
 luxurious cars, would have not only the documents and the details
 qua her own income, but all the details of expenditure incurred on
 purchasing/maintaining such luxury cars. Mrs. Paulose, however, has
 placed no documents before this Court to support her claims over the
 cars in question. Further, she cannot be allowed to take shelter under
 the pretext that her incarceration in the jail is responsible for distress
 and depression leading to memory loss, moreso when there is no
 medical evidence to support her claim. 58. On the other hand, it is the specific case of Directorate of
 Enforcement that it had conducted searches under Section 17 of
 PMLA at various locations, in connection with the present case, and
 had found that these cars were purchased out of the „proceeds of
 crime‟ generated by Mr. Sukash Chandrasekhar through his illegal
 activities. The Adjudicating Authority, vide five separate orders, has
 already allowed the application filed by the Directorate of
 Enforcement under Section 17(4) read with Section 8 of PMLA, after
 prima facie recording that commission of offence of money
 laundering has taken place and proceeds of crime have been
 generated and that the cars in question had been purchased out of the
 said proceeds of crime generated through commission of scheduled
 offence, and thus, the properties, documents, etc. seized by the
 Directorate of Enforcement are required to be retained. These orders
 have not been challenged by the petitioner till date. 59. Therefore, considering the aforesaid facts and circumstances, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 31 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07 and for the reasons recorded in preceding discussion including para
 nos. 35 to 51, this Court finds no infirmity with the orders impugned
 by way of this petition. 60. However, the Directorate of Enforcement is directed to
 keep the entire amount generated from sale of cars in question in
 an 'interest bearing' fixed deposit. 61. In view thereof, the present petition alongwith pending
 applications stands dismissed. 62. Nothing expressed hereinabove shall tantamount to an
 expression of opinion on the merits of the case. 63. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
 JULY 12, 2024/A Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 521/2023 Page 32 of 32 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2024 18:46:07