[ WA 791/2019, WA.792/2019, WA.795/2019, WA.796/2019,
 WA.798/2019, WP(C).7267/2019, WP(C).7388/2019,
 WP(C).7416/2019, WP(C).7431/2019, WP(C).7435/2019 ]

Vinod Chandran,J. In controversy, is an Ordinance, which abruptly

terminated the services of the appellants-writ petitioners

who were occupying the posts of Registrar, Controller of

Examinations and Finance Officer in the Mahatma Gandhi,

Calicut and Kannur Universities. The appeals were filed

from an order of the learned Single Judge, wherein the

proceedings pursuant to the Ordinance were made subject to

the result of the writ petitions. The appellants were

aggrieved with the refusal of the learned Single Judge to

stay the operation of the Ordinance and permit the

appellants to continue in service. Especially considering

the fact that a consideration of the Writ Appeal would in

effect result in the consideration of the entire subject

matter, we, with the consent of the parties, called for the

writ petitions itself to be heard. We directed the

pleadings to be completed, which has been done. In such

circumstances, we feel it appropriate to dispose of the

matter finally. Advocate General addressed arguments on behalf of the State

and Sri.P.C.Sasidharan, Sri.M.Sasindran and Sri.Asok

M.Cherian appearing on behalf of the Universities supported

the State. Sri.Jaju Babu, Senior counsel represented the

Chancellor. 3. Sri.George Poonthottam appearing for the

Controller of Examinations of the Calicut University argues

that the Ordinance is a clear abuse of the constitutional

powers; for it being intended only at replacement of the

Registrar of Kannur University, whose suspension has been

interfered with by this Court directing reinstatement. Only

to ensure that there is no allegation raised of a 'one man

legislation', the Ordinance targeted all the crucial

officers of certain Universities. Though no mala fides can

be alleged against the Legislature, it is urged that

there is an abuse of power, insofar as invocation of Article 213 , actuated by extraneous reasons and there can

be inferred a constitutional fraud as held by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in (2017) 3 SCC 1 [Krishna Kumar Singh &
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 20 - connected cases Another v. State of Bihar & Others ]. It is pointed out that

as per Exhibit P9 produced in W.P.(C) No.7416 of 2019, it

is clear that the Legislative Assembly was in session from

25.01.2019 to 12.02.2019. Even as per the counter affidavit

filed by the State, the Ordinance was issued pursuant to a

recommendation of the Kerala State Higher Education Council

[for brevity "Council"] as early as on 17.01.2019. The

Government has thought it fit not to place the

recommendations in the form of a Bill before the

Legislative Assembly and has, after the session concluded;

then acting in haste, brought out the Ordinance on

06.03.2019. It is also pointed out that the Ordinance has

been brought out at a crucial time when the Universities

are scheduled to hold the annual examinations. The change

in the Administrative Officers of the University,

especially those at the pinnacle, enjoined with the duty of

conducting examinations, would put the examination exercise

into jeopardy. It is also argued that the Government had

already taken a decision on 29.08.2014 to enhance the

retirement age of the statutory officers of the

Universities in the State as provided in the University

Grants Commission Regulations of 1998 [for brevity "UGC

Regulations"] to 60 years from the existing 56 years, as is
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 21 - connected cases

evidenced from Exhibit P7. The said decision was taken by

the Government which was in office then, and the Ordinance

is only an attempt by the incumbent Government to interfere

with the earlier decision taken, apparently with oblique

motives. A Full Bench decision of this Court in

Radhakrishnan Pillai v. T.D.B. [2016 (2) KLT 245 (FB)] is

relied on to contend that when the Government has adopted

Regulations of the UGC, then there cannot be a reduction

in the retirement age, adversely affecting the service of

the petitioners. This again fortifies the contention

raised of the Ordinance being motivated only by reason of

change of Government. Reliance is also placed on an

unreported decision of this Court in W.A.No.783 of 1997

dated 11.07.1997 [ Dr.A.M.Michael v. Kerala Agricultural

University ]; allegedly in an identical situation when the

service conditions of the Vice-Chancellor of an University

was sought to be varied during the course of his tenure.

The amendments made to the statute were struck down by a

Division Bench. 4. Sri.P.K.Ibrahim appears for the Registrar of

the Kannur University. The reliefs sought, are specifically

pointed out, which are (i) a declaration that Section 10 of

the Ordinance is ultra vires the Kannur University Act and
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 22 - connected cases

the Kannur University First Statutes, 1998 and (ii) a

declaration that the amendment to Section 14 of the Kannur

University Act has only prospective effect; not affecting

the service conditions of the petitioner who was appointed

earlier and who has to be regulated by the unamended

provisions of the Act and the Statutes. It is argued that

the petitioner had left the service of an aided college,

where he was Head of the Department, and if he had

continued there, he would have had a further period of

three years service. It is contended that Section 10 of the

Ordinance is ultra vires the Act and the provision, if at

all sustained, can only have prospective application

insofar as regulating the services of a candidate who is

appointed after the petitioner's retirement at the age of 60. After appointment as the Registrar, the petitioner has

a vested right to continue till the date of his retirement

as existing at the time of his appointment. Even a

retrospective legislation cannot take away a vested right

and here the Ordinance can only be prospective. By Section

14 of the Kannur University Act, as it existed at the time

of his appointment, the post of Registrar is a whole-time

salaried officer appointed by the Syndicate for such period

and on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 23 - connected cases

the Statutes. The Statutes specifically prescribed the age

of retirement of a Registrar to be 55 years, which was

altered by the Government, as a policy, adopting the UGC

Regulations; which prescribed the age of retirement to

be 60. ( 2008) 12 SCC 112 [State of Punjab & Others v.

Bhajan Kaur & Others ] and ( 2008) 1 SCC 391 [Sangam Spinners

v. Regional Provident Fund Commissioner- I ] are placed

reliance on to buttress the contention that the right of a

party must be determined on the basis of the Statute which

was applicable at the relevant time. ( 1994) 5 SCC 450

[Union of India & Others v. Tushar Ranjan Mohanty & Others ]

is relied upon to contend that a new legislation cannot

nullify a right vested in a person under the Statute or the

Constitution. The learned Counsel would also raise the

ground of discrimination insofar as the petitioner being a

non-teaching staff, whose tenure has been restricted by the

Ordinance while the other non-teaching staff of the

University continue upto the retirement age of 56 years. It

is urged, the Ordinance interferes with the right to

livelihood of the petitioner and violates Articles 14 , 15 and 21 of the Constitution of India. 5. Sri.V.A.Muhammed has made submissions on behalf

of the Registrar, University of Calicut and the Controller
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 24 - connected cases

of Examinations, M.G.University. Both the petitioners are

persons who got themselves relieved from their teaching

assignments in aided colleges for the purpose of taking up

administrative posts in the respective Universities. It is

argued that the retirement age is prescribed by the

Statutes of the University and the power of the State

Government is only to frame the First Statutes at the time

of inception of the University. When the Syndicate becomes

functional, the role of the State Government is only to

make amendments as suggested by the Syndicate and there

cannot be Statutes made repeatedly for the Universities or

amendments carried out therein. Reliance is placed on

( 1994) 5 SCC 479 [All Kerala Private College Teachers'

Association v. Nair Service Society and Others ] to further

advance the above contention. 6. Sri.Murali Purushothaman projects the plight of

his client, who is a Chartered Accountant and was employed

with the Kerala State Financial Enterprises; who resigned

his job, to take up the responsibility of Finance Officer

of a University. It is argued that though at the time of

the petitioner's appointment, the retirement age of Finance

Officer was 55; it was later enhanced to 56 as per

Exhibit P4. Exhibit P4 is an amendment to the
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 25 - connected cases

M.G.University Statutes, prescribing the age of retirement

as 56 years or "as amended from time to time by the State

Government" (sic). Exhibit P5 adopts the age of 60 years as

the retirement age for Registrar, Controller of

Examinations and Finance Officer of the Universities, who

are termed the "statutory officers". On such adoption by

the State Government by virtue of the specific clause in

Exhibit P4, which incorporates amendments from time to time

made by the State Government in the First Statutes, the

petitioner has to be continued till he reaches the age of

60 years. Section 23 of the M.G.University Act, dealing

with powers of the Syndicate, is referred to and Clause

(xxvii) is specifically pointed out, which empowers the

Syndicate to prescribe, with the previous concurrence of

the Government, the terms and conditions of service of the

employees of the University. The Syndicate has so

prescribed the age of retirement, at the time of his

appointment as 55 and later enhanced to 56 and by virtue of

the Government's adoption of the UGC Regulations further

enhanced to 60. Without an amendment to the Statutes, there

can be no reduction in the age of retirement by an

amendment to the M.G.University Act. It is also pointed out

that the Syndicate on the basis of Exhibit P5 adoption of
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 26 - connected cases

60 years as age of retirement, by the Government, has

proposed amendments to the Statutes, which is pending

before the Chancellor. The Ordinance hence, is incompetent

to abruptly terminate the services of the petitioner. It is

also pointed out that the UGC Regulations of 2010 have been

made in pursuance of the directions of the Government of

India that the age of superannuation shall continue to

be 62 years for Registrar and equivalent posts. The

Regulations of 2010 has to be inferred to have prescribed

such a mandate, as has been found by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in ( 2015) 8 SCC 129 [P.Suseela & Others v. University

Grants Commission & Others ]. 7. Sri.Shyam Krishnan, learned Counsel appearing

for another similarly situated petitioner, was also heard

in the matter. The said petitioner was identically

situated, but had not filed a Writ Appeal, when we called

for the writ petitions in the present Appeals. However,

today an appeal was moved, and notice was taken by the

official respondents. The Standing Counsel for the

University, a different University from that in these

appeals, sought time and hence, the same has been adjourned

for two weeks. However, since the decision in these cases

would regulate the outcome of that appeal also, we deemed
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 27 - connected cases

it fit to permit the learned Counsel to make submissions

with respect to the controversy which is common in all the

writ petitions. The learned Counsel would urge that the

Ordinance is clearly discriminatory insofar as many

Universities have been excluded from its purview. The

learned Counsel would also stress on the principle of

'legitimate expectation' and rely on the decisions of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court, to assail the Ordinance as intended

at upsetting the tenure of a single person; reported in AIR

1967 SC 1305 [Dinnapati Sadasiva Reddi, Vice- Chancellor,

Osmania University v. Chancellor, Osmania University &

Others] and ( 2008) 5 SCC 1 [P.Venugopal v. Union of India ]. 8. Sri.C.P.Sudhakara Prasad, learned Advocate

General addressed arguments in support of the Ordinance. It

is pointed out that there can be no mala fides alleged on

the Legislature nor on the Governor, who acts on behalf of

the Legislature, when it is not in session; that too on the

advice of the Council of Ministers invoking Article 213 of

the Constitution of India. It is also pointed out that none

of the petitioners can put forth the contention of

'legitimate expectation' or argue that their right to

livelihood have been curtailed for reason only of their

post being made a tenure post in the best interest of the
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 28 - connected cases

Universities. It is pointed out that the posts of

Vice-Chancellor and Pro-Vice-Chancellor already are tenure

posts. The State Higher Education Council had made certain

recommendations, which intended at bringing in uniformity

with respect to the service conditions of statutory

officers of the University. The posts of Registrar,

Controller of Examinations and Finance Officer cannot be

equated with a non-teaching staff of the University

especially when the mode of appointment and the service

conditions are separately prescribed in the Act and

Statutes. These are officers of the University, handling

crucial duties, enjoined with critical functions and are a

separate class of statutory officers of the University; in

which common class is included the Vice-Chancellor and

Pro-Vice-Chancellor also. The Government is proposing

amendments to make the posts 'tenure posts' in all the

Universities and has, by the subject Ordinance, first

attempted it in four Universities. There can, hence, be no

claim or allegation of discrimination (i) on the basis of

some of the Universities not being included in the

Ordinance or (ii) on the ground of retirement age of

non-teaching staff in the Universities. 9. The learned Advocate General has relied on the

decision in AIR 1977 SC 1146 [The Vice- Chancellor, Jammu

University v. Dushinant Kumar Rampal ] to contend that when

a statute has been amended altering conditions of service,

the employee would be guided by the amended provisions. The

decision in AIR 1965 SC 1567 [Bishun Narain Misra v. State

of U.P. and Others] was cited to contend that termination

of service resulting from change in age of superannuation

did not amount to removal within the meaning of Article 311. Reliance is placed on ( 1976) 2 SCC 502 [N.Lakshmana

Rao v. State of Karnataka ], wherein it was held that there

is no constitutional limitation to reduce the age of

retirement. A Full Bench decision of this Court in AIR 1968

Kerala 158 [N.Srinivasan, Addl. District & Sessions Judge,

Quilon & Another v. State of Kerala ] is pressed into

service to contend that mala fides cannot be a ground to

challenge a legislation and the only fetter as regards a

legislation is lack of legislative power and violation of

Part III of the Constitution; that, reduction of age of

retirement does not amount to any discrimination and that

amendment of a statute cannot be said to be ultra vires

some provision of the statute itself. In the decision

reported in 1992 Supp (3) SCC 191 [T.P.George & Others v. State of Kerala & Others] it was found that when adopting

the terms of the UGC Scheme, it was competent for the State

to have prescribed a different age of superannuation. The

decision in ( 2007) 11 SCC 58 [B.Bharat Kumar & Others v.

Osmania University & Others ] was also cited by the learned

Advocate General to contend that the State Government was

not bound to raise the age of superannuation in accordance

with the UGC Scheme. In support of the contention that

final decision to enhance age of superannuation of teachers

would be on the State irrespective of UGC Regulations,

reliance was placed on the decision in (2013) 8 SCC 633

[Jagdish Prasad Sharma & Others v. State of Bihar &

Others]. A decision of this Court, reported in 2011 ( 2) KLT

468 [Mathai M.M. v. Elizabeth Xavier & Others ], has been

cited to contend that the UGC does not have any power to

prescribe the age of retirement. In support of the

contention that irrespective of UGC Regulations the State

can fix retirement age, reliance is placed on unreported

decisions of this Court in W.A.No.734 of 2016 & connected

case, dated 13.12.2017 [ Dr.J.Vijayan & Others v. State of

Kerala & Others ] and W.A.No.1283 of 2016 & connected cases,

dated 07.11.2016 [ Harikumar S. & Others v. State of Kerala

& Others ]. To urge that the State Legislature has
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 31 - connected cases

competence to change conditions of service with

retrospective effect, support is garnered from the decision

of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in (1976) 4 SCC 750 [N.Saksena

v. State of Madhya Pradesh]. The decision of the Apex Court

in AIR 1992 SC 1277 [State of H.P. & Another v. Kailash

Chand Mahajan & Others ] was relied on to argue that mala

fides cannot be attributed to the Legislature; age limit

can be prescribed for a tenure post; the Court is least

concerned with the wisdom of the policy of the State

regarding the age of superannuation and prescribing such an

outer age limit is perfectly legal; legitimate expectation

cannot preclude legislation; and, even if there is a

legislation prescribing age of superannuation which is

relating to a single person, there is nothing wrong, when

the avowed policy of the State is to prescribe an age of

superannuation based on reasonable criteria in

implementation of a valid policy. And for the proposition

that Legislature cannot be accused of passing the law on

the ground of mala fides and mala fides cannot be alleged

against the Governor for promulgating an Ordinance because

he is exercising a legislative function in accordance with Article 213 , reliance is placed on the decision in AIR 1998

Kar. 210 = 1998 KHC 2145 [State of Karnataka & Another v. [ Dharam Dutt & Others v. Union of India & Others ], it is

argued, the Apex Court has held that doctrine of colourable

legislation does not involve question of mala fides against

Legislature and only involves legislative competency and

violation of fundamental rights. The decision in 1985 KLT

344 = 1985 KHC 81 [Vasudevan & Others v. State of Kerala &

Others] was cited to contend that promulgation of an

Ordinance has to be on the subjective satisfaction of the

Governor, not justiciable in a Court of law. It is argued

that in (1974) 4 SCC 827 [S.K.G.Sugar Ltd. v. State of

Bihar & Others] the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that the

satisfaction of the Governor regarding existence of

circumstances necessitating an Ordinance is not justiciable

on the ground of error of judgment or otherwise and in Krishna Kumar Singh (supra) it has been held that

subjective satisfaction of Governor regarding promulgation

of an Ordinance is subject to judicial review only when the

exercise of power is based on extraneous ground and there

is no satisfaction at all. 2014 (4) KLT 576 = 2014 (4) KHC

415 [Hari Hara Krishnan G.K. & Others v. State of Kerala &

Others] is pressed into service to sustain Section 10 of

the ordinance which makes the amendment applicable to the
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 33 - connected cases

present incumbents; legally sustainable as a 'transitional

provision'. 10. First and foremost, we have to deal with the

contention that the Ordinance was actuated by extraneous

reasons and that the invocation of Article 213 of the

Constitution results in an abuse of power. Decisions are

legion that there can be no mala fides alleged on the

Legislature nor on the Governor acting under Article 213; where the Governor exercises the functions of the

Legislature, in law making, when the legislature is not in

session; a few of which are referred to in the preceding

paragraph. The contentions raised on violation of Part III

of the Constitution is also based on the well-defined

contours of a challenge against legislation being confined

to legislative competence and violation of fundamental

rights as held in State Of Andhra Pradesh Vs Mc Dowell &

Co. Ltd. [1996(3) SCC 709]. We would definitely deal with

the ground of legislative competence, the contentions of

violations of equality, discrimination meted out and

deprivation of livelihood; but first we look at the

compelling plea of abuse of power resulting in perpetration

of a constitutional fraud. 11. Arguments were addressed strongly relying on

Krishna Kumar Singh, wherein the Court was concerned with

the repetitive act of bringing out Ordinances without

placing it before the Legislature. The Court was primarily

concerned with the question as to "whether upon an

Ordinance ceasing to operate, either as a result of its

disapproval by the legislature or upon its expiry after the

prescribed period of six months of assembling of the

legislature, all consequences that have ensued would

necessarily stand effaced and obliterated" (sic. Para 93).

The Court also considered the aspect of satisfaction of the

Governor under Article 213 , being subject to judicial

review, on which aspect the majority judgment relied on the

Constitution Bench decision in ( 1994) 3 SCC 1 [S.R.Bommai

v. Union of India ]. We deem it fit to extract the specific

paragraph from S.R.Bommai, which was relied on in Krishna

Kumar Singh: It was held that the satisfaction of the Governor under Article 213 was not immune from judicial review. However,

the extended scope of judicial scrutiny would depend upon

the nature of the subject-matter, the nature of the right

affected, the character of the legal and constitutional

provisions involved and such factors as held in 1992 Supp

(3) SCC 217 [Indra Sawhney v. Union of India]. It was held

that since the satisfaction rests with the Governor, the

Court should act with circumspection in considering a

challenge to that satisfaction and should restrain itself

from enquiring into the adequacy or sufficiency of the

material before the Governor. If there is some material,

the Court should keep its hands off and the interference of

the Court could arise only in a case involving a fraud on

power or an abuse, where the situation warrants

interference for reason of the exercise of power being for

an oblique purpose. We have to consider the facts in the

above case keeping in mind the inherent limitations

regulating the power of judicial review. Council was dated 17.01.2019 and the Legislative Assembly

was in session between 25.01.2019 and 12.02.2019, the

Government thought it fit to keep the recommendations in

cold storage and then immediately after the session

concluded, brought out the Ordinance, that too for the

purpose of removing the Registrar of Kannur University who

was suspended but later directed to be reinstated by this

Court. The recommendation of the statutory Council on which

the Council of Ministers advised the Governor to bring out

the Ordinance was dated 17.01.2019. To place the

recommendation in the form of a Bill before the

Legislature, which convened a week after the recommendation

of the Council, is easier said than done. As per the Rules

for Business of the Government of Kerala, every proposal

for a legislation, a matter coming within the Second

Schedule of the Rules, has to originate from the Department

to which the subject matter relates (Rule 44). After

settlement of the Proposal, it shall be placed before the

Chief Minister through the Ministers in charge of

Administrative and Law Department (Rule 45 to 48) and if

the Chief Minister does not direct otherwise it shall be
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 37 - connected cases

brought before the Council of Ministers (Rule 49). On a

decision taken to proceed with the legislation the Law

Department has to prepare a final draft Bill (Rule 50). The

placing of the bill before the Legislature again has to

comply with Chapter XIV: "Legislation" of the Rules of

Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Kerala Legislative

Assembly. A week is absolutely insufficient to place a Bill

before the Legislature and the fact that the recommendation

of the Higher Education Council was not placed before the

Assembly, which convened a week later, cannot be presumed

to be purposeful or deliberate. Lot of background work goes

into a legislation and in the present case it also warrants

a policy decision and there cannot be found a deliberate

attempt not to place it before the Legislative Assembly.

Further the Legislative Assembly would have been scheduled

much earlier and there would have been placed in the

session a number of matters the preparation for which would

have begun far earlier. The mere fact that the

recommendation of the Council was received before the

Assembly commenced its session cannot be the sole basis for

assuming that the Government purposefully avoided a

legislation proper, by the Legislature. Court were all events subsequent to the recommendation of

the Council on 17.01.2019. We cannot impute clairvoyance on

the Higher Education Council or the Council of Ministers to

so bring out an Ordinance to terminate the services of a

Registrar, whose suspension and order of reinstatement by

this Court, had been occasioned subsequently. The

suspension was on 31.01.2019, after the recommendation of

the Council and the judgment referred to was on 18.02.2019,

after the Assembly concluded. On the persuasion of the

learned Counsel for the petitioners, we had requested the

learned Advocate General to make available the files with

respect to the promulgation of the Ordinance but did not

feel compelled to look into it especially since the

extraneous ground stated by the petitioners has been

negatived and also by reason of the specific averments in

the counter affidavit of the State. 14. The State has specifically contended that the

Member Secretary of the Kerala State Higher Education

Council, constituted as per the provisions of the Higher

Education Council Act, 2007 forwarded a note of the Council

to the Government on 17.01.2019 regarding the mode of
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 39 - connected cases

appointment of the Registrars/ Controlling Officers/

Finance Officers of the Universities in the State.

Generally referred to as Branch Officers in the University

system, it was felt that there was no uniformity in their

appointments. It was pointed out that in one of the

Universities in the State and also in institutions of

national importance, such as Indian Institute of

Technologies [IIT's] the Branch Officers were appointed for

a fixed tenure, while many of the Universities in the State

appointed such officers till the age of retirement. There

was a recommendation made that the initial appointment

could be for one year and on satisfactory completion of

probation, the appointment could be confirmed; but

permitted to be continued for a tenure of four years or 56

years of age, whichever occurs earlier, 56 being the

retirement age generally applicable to Government employees

in the State of Kerala. The Government had considered the

report and recommendations of the Council in its entirety

and found that the recommendation was academically sound

and correct. This led to the promulgation of the Ordinance,

which was made when the Legislative Assembly was not in

session and the State necessarily had the legislative power

to prescribe such conditions under Article 309 of the
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 40 - connected cases

Constitution of India; the two prerequisites for invocation

of Article 213. We would not attempt an enquiry into the

satisfaction entered into by the Governor, since we are not

to impose our own opinion as to the recommendations of the

Council and substitute the Governor's opinion with ours.

The Higher Education Council is a statutory body

constituted specifically for the purposes of streamlining

higher education under The Kerala Higher Education Council

Act, 2007 . As the Preamble of the enactment indicates, the

establishment of the Council was to forge a synergic

relationship between the various stake holders thus (i)

ensuring autonomy and accountability to the institutions, (ii) promoting academic excellence and social justice and (iii) guiding the growth of higher education within the

State in accordance with the socio-economic requirements.

The Council is also an expert body constituted of

Ministers, educationalists, academicians, eminent persons

from various walks of life, people's representatives from

all tires of local administration and such other

representatives of the various stake-holders in education.

The Councils recommendations based on the experience

garnered from watching the functioning of the academic

institutions and the expertise in the respective domains,
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 41 - connected cases

have to be duly respected; which experience and expertise

we lack, to sit in judgment of such matters relating to

education. We would not foray into such un-chartered areas

where we have no expertise or experience. The Governor, as

was submitted by Sri. Jaju Babu, had sufficient material

before him and was also guided by the advice of the Council

of Ministers. We find no abuse of power or fraud on power

in promulgating the Ordinance. 15. We have to notice the details of the

individual petitioners for the purpose of completeness

insofar as the consideration of the grounds of

discrimination, the prospective operation of the various

provisions of the Ordinance as also the contention with

respect to the Ordinance having interfered with the vested

rights of the various petitioners and violated Part II of

the Constitution. (i) WP(C) No.7431 of 2019 is filed by the Registrar of

Calicut University, who commenced regular service as

Lecturer in Arabic in an aided college, was later Head of

the Department and then appointed as Principal. By a

selection process, he was appointed as Registrar and took

charge on 06.01.2014 and had been continuing as such for

the last five years and is now aged 48 years. (ii) W.P.(C) No.7435 of 2019 is filed by the Registrar

of Kannur University. According to him, before taking

charge as Registrar of the University, he was working as an

Associate Professor in the Department of Malayalam of an

aided College and was Head of Department; for 20 years. He

was appointed as Registrar and joined service on 13.06.2013

and is now aged 53 years. (iii) W.P.(C) No.7388 of 2019 is filed by the

Controller of Examinations, M.G.University. He commenced

service as Junior Lecturer in an aided college and was

working as Reader; when by a process of selection, he was

appointed as Controller of Examinations vide Exhibit P12

and joined the post on 05.03.2005. He is now aged 59 years. (iv) The petitioner in W.P.(C) No.7416 of 2019 was

appointed, by a selection process, as Controller of

Examinations of University of Calicut vide order dated

13.12.2013. Before that, he was working as Associate

Professor in St.Thomas College Pala and is now aged 56

years. (v) W.P.(C) No.7267 of 2019 is filed by the Finance

Officer of the M.G.University, who took charge as such on

19.10.2000. He is a Chartered Accountant and is now aged 57

years. 16. We referred to the age of the petitioners to

only emphasise that three out of the five have completed

the age of 56, which is the age of superannuation of the

non-teaching staff of the University and all have completed

the tenure as brought in by the Ordinance. We also have to

notice that except the Finance Officer all the petitioners

were teaching staff, academic personnel, appointed to posts

having academic implications which experience is the

essential qualification to be so appointed. They cannot be

called non-teaching staff since they constantly deal with

academic matters and are concerned directly and pivotally

with academic aspects of the University. Pertinent too is

the fact that M.G. University by its First Statutes

prescribe the retirement age of Registrar & Finance Officer

at 55 years by Statutes 23 & 37 of Chapter 2. Kannur

University prescribes the age of retirement of Registrar at

55 years as per Statute 25 of Chapter II of the First

Statutes. Calicut University prescribe the retirement age

of Registrar & Controller Of Examinations at 55 years by

Statutes 24 & 36 of Chapter 2 of the First Statutes. This

was the prescription at the time of appointment of the

respective petitioners. M.G. University enhanced the

retirement age by an amendment to the Statutes specifying
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 44 - connected cases

it at 56 years. The moot question with respect to that

University is whether the provision enabling revision of

age of retirement in accordance with the amendments made by

the State Government would take in an adoption of 60 years

as per the UGC Regulations of 1998; when the age of

retirement of State Government employees remain at 56 years

even now. 17. We will deal with issue of adoption of a

higher age of retirement a little later, but the ground of

discrimination has to be addressed immediately. There can

be no equation of the petitioners or their designations to

the non-teaching staff of the Universities. They are

statutory officers of the Universities as understood by the

Act and the Statutes. Their appointment and terms of

conditions of service, both in the respective Acts and

Statutes come under one chapter treating them together with

the Vice-Chancellor and Pro-Vice-Chancellor; both of whom

have tenure appointments. Except the Finance Officer the

others also come from the academic stream and have academic

responsibilities though not entrusted with teaching

assignments. By their special status they cannot be called

a part of the faculty, nor can they be equated with non-

teaching staff. They stand separate and distinct in their
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 45 - connected cases

duties and functions and are in a common class termed

statutory officers or Branch Officers of the University.

They cannot equate themselves with the other non-teaching

staff of the University. There can be no discrimination

alleged on that basis. On the ground of discrimination

raised on only certain Universities being singled out, it

need only to be noticed that the State has categorically

stated in its affidavit that it intends to extend it to all

the Universities. 18. Rule against retrospectivity is urged on the

basis of the prescription in the Statutes and the adoption

of a higher age of retirement by the State, which if

changed detrimentally cannot take away vested rights. We

will first look at the decisions relied on and then the

Ordinance. Tushar Ranjan Mohanty, Sangam Spinners and

Bhajan Kaur have been placed before us to argue that a

vested right cannot be taken away by a subsequent

legislation even if the same is made retrospective. Here

admittedly there is no retrospective effect conferred on

the Ordinance. Tushar Ranjan Mohanty was a general

candidate who was superseded for promotion, from Grade-IV

to Grade-III, by juniors who were Scheduled

Castes/Scheduled Tribes. Mohanty challenged the above
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 46 - connected cases

promotions before the Central Administrative Tribunal,

which upheld the challenge and directed the official

respondents to promote Mohanty also to Grade-III and place

him above the candidates who were promoted on reservation.

The official respondents, in appeal before the Hon'ble

Supreme Court claimed that subsequently, the Rules were

amended permitting reservation even with respect to

promotions in the Department, that too retrospectively from

a date prior to which Mohanty claimed his right to be

considered for promotion. The Hon'ble Supreme Court,

relying on various decisions found that there was a vested

right on Mohanty at the time of promotion of his juniors

from the reservation category and at that point of time the

rules specifically prohibited reservation in promotions.

The right to be considered for promotion was a vested right

which could not have been taken away by a retrospective

amendment was the finding. Sangam Spinners considered the

amendment of Employees' Provident Fund and Miscellaneous

Provisions Act, 1952 , which took away the exemption to

newly formed establishments for a period of three years

from the date of establishment. Sangam Spinners was an

establishment which was set up when such exemption was

available, but before the three-year period expired, the
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 47 - connected cases

amendment came into force. The Hon'ble Supreme Court found

that there was a vested right on the establishment which

would operate de hors the amendment and the exemption would

continue for the three-year period from the date of its

establishment. Bhajan Kaur again considered the amendment

made to the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 enhancing the

compensation payable on no fault liability, which did not

have any retrospective effect. It amended the earlier

provision and enhanced the quantum of compensation, which

was found to be not applicable to accidents which occurred

prior to the amendment. 19. The learned Judges in Sangam Spinners relied

on AIR 1971 SC 1193 [Jayantilal Amratlal v. Union of India

& Others] and extracted the following paragraph: "In order to see whether the rights and
 liabilities under the repealed law have been put
 to an end by the new enactment, the proper
 approach is not to enquire if the new enactment
 has by its new provisions kept alive the rights
 and liabilities under the repealed law but
 whether it has taken away those rights and
 liabilities. The absence of a saving clause in a
 new enactment preserving the rights and
 liabilities under the repealed law is neither
 material nor decisive of the question". General Clauses Act , which reserved the right, privilege,

obligation or liability accrued or incurred under any

enactment repealed if there is no provision with a

different intention on such repeal being effected. 20. In the present case, the Ordinance without Section 10 would have applied only after the present

incumbents in the office of the Registrar, Controller of

Examinations and Finance Officer retired; on adoption of

the principle that the rights and liabilities under the

repealed Act would be carried over after the repeal.

However, Section 10 of the Ordinance reveals a different

intention insofar as the provisions being made applicable

to the present incumbents also. In making it applicable to

the present incumbents, there is no retrospectivity

conferred on the statute and it applies only prospectively

when an incumbent completes the 4 year term or attains 56

years of age, whichever is earlier and to all who have

completed either of these mile stones. The transitional

provision made applicable the rigor of the amendment to the

present incumbents in office too. As we will presently

notice the power to decide on the retirement and conditions

of service of persons serving the State is on the
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 49 - connected cases

legislature of the State under Article 309 of the

Constitution and the Ordinance cannot be challenged on the

ground of lack of power. 21. Hari Hara Krishnan G.K. was with respect to an

identical Ordinance, which curtailed the term of

non-hereditary trustees in temples under the Malabar

Devaswom Board for a period of two years. The terminated

trustees were before this Court challenging the Ordinance

on similar grounds of unnecessary political intentions

having actuated the promulgation of the Ordinance at the

time when the Government changed. The petitioners asserted

that those who were appointed under the unamended provision

and continued as non-hereditary trustees of the temple,

were entitled to be continued till the term of five years,

for which they were appointed, as per the unamended

provision. A Division Bench of this Court eschewed the

allegations of mala fides attributed to the Legislature and

found the Ordinance, which was replaced by an Amendment

Act, to be a manifestation of the policy decision of the

Government to reduce the term of office of the

non-hereditary trustees of the temples under the Board.

The Court refused to look into the wisdom of the policy or

the necessity for such a legislation. Further, similar
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 50 - connected cases

provision as available in Section 10 of the Ordinance,

which is the subject matter of these proceedings, was also

considered. In the Amendment Act considered by the Division

Bench, identical "Special provisions relating to the

existing members of the Area Committee and non-hereditary

trustees" was upheld as a transitional provision. The Court

quoted two authoritative texts in illumination of the

concept of transitional provisions, which we extract

hereunder: 22. On the question of vested right, as we noticed

earlier, at the time of appointment the retirement age

prescribed by all the Universities who were parties in the

above cases was either 55 or 56. The claim raised by the

petitioners is on the basis of the adoption of the UGC

Regulations of 1998 by the Government, which Regulations,

according to the Government, prescribed a retirement age of

60 years for the statutory officers. At the outset, it has

to be noticed that if during the tenure of a person who is

to be continued till the age of retirement there can be an

amendment enabling continuation of the employee beyond the

age of superannuation for reason of an enhancement of

retirement age, necessarily there could be a curtailment of

tenure too. The State Legislature, acting under Article

309 , would be competent to make such amendments and
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 52 - connected cases

individual hardship may not be a reason for the

Constitutional Court to interfere with such change in

policy brought in by a competent legislation. 23. The learned Advocate General has relied on a

host of decisions to support the argument that the

curtailment of retirement age does not lead to taking away

a vested right of the employee. Bishun Narain Misra,

N.Lakshmana Rao and K.Nagaraj found that cessation of

service resulting from change of age of superannuation did

not amount to removal within the meaning of Article 311. Bishun Narain Misra negatived the contention of the

employees, that if the persons who are already in service

were superannuated based on reduction in age, brought into

the service conditions after they were appointed; then it

would be retrospective in nature. The rule amending the age

of superannuation was held to be not retrospective and

comes into force on the date of the amendment and applies

across the board to all the Government servants even though

recruited prior to the amendment, was the finding.

N.Lakshmana Rao found that the position of a Government

servant is one of status and not of contract. It was held

that there is no constitutional limitation to reduce the

age of retirement and a Government servant enjoys that
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 53 - connected cases

status only till he reaches the age of superannuation as

per the rules which exist on his reaching that age. 24. K.Nagaraj specifically dealt with the argument

that reduction in age of retirement takes away the right of

a person to his livelihood. It was held that that if a rule

of retirement is to be deemed as depriving a person of his

livelihood, then it would be impermissible to provide for

an age of retirement at all. It was held "rules of

retirement do not take away the right of a person to his

livelihood: they limit his right to hold office to a stated

number of years" (sic. Para 35). Therein, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court had accepted the contentions of the State

insofar as the reduction of retirement age having been

necessitated to provide an opportunity to the unemployed

talented youth eagerly awaiting chances of appointment and

ensure that the legitimate aspirations for promotion of

experienced deserving in-service personnel are not

thwarted. The challenge on the ground of violation of

fundamental rights under Part III of the Constitution is

demolished, miserably, under the sheer weight of the

precedents above referred. 25. The sheet-anchor of the claim of legitimate

expectation for continuance upto 60 years is based on the
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 54 - connected cases

adoption of the UGC Regulations of 1998, specifically the

retirement age prescribed of 60 years for the Branch

Officers of the Universities. The Government Order,

No.GO(MS) No.745/2014/H.Edn. dated 29.08.2014, is produced

at Exhibit P5 in W.P.(C) No.7267 of 2019. We have to first

look at the sequential UGC Regulations which were brought

out and the notifications based on which such Regulations

were framed. 26. The UGC Notification on Revision of Pay

Scales, Minimum Qualifications for Appointment of Teachers

in Universities & Colleges and Other Measures for the

Maintenance of Standards, 1998 provided at Clause 16.2.0

that the age of retirement of the statutory officers, who

are being treated at par with the teachers and whose age of

superannuation was 60 years, would be 62 years. Letter

No.1-32/2006-U.II/U.I(ii) dated 31.12.2008 issued by the

Ministry of Human Resource Development [MHRD], Department

of Higher Education also contained, at Clause (1)(c), that

"the age of superannuation, as at present, shall continue

to be 62 (sixty two) years for Registrar and equivalent

posts". Later, UGC Regulations of 2000 was brought out

which, obviously, did not apply to the Branch Officers. As

of now, what exists is the UGC Regulations on Minimum
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 55 - connected cases

Qualifications for Appointment of Teachers and Other

Academic Staff in Universities & Colleges and Measures for

the Maintenance of Standards in Higher Education, 2010. The

Regulations of 2010, according to the Sri.Murali

Purushothaman, were brought out in pursuance of the MHRD

notification of 2008 and hence, the 2010 Regulations ought

to be considered as having included the retirement age of

62 years with respect to the Branch Officers of

Universities. However, the specific provisions in the

Regulations indicate otherwise. 27. We extract hereunder Clause 8(p) of the UGC

Regulations of 2010, which speaks of applicability of the

Scheme: connected cases

 within three months from the date of issue of
 this letter. (ii) This Scheme does not extend to the cadres of
 Registrar, Finance Officer and Controller of
 Examinations for which a separate Scheme is
 being issued separately. xxx xxx xxx (v) This Scheme may be extended to Universities,
 Colleges and other higher educational
 institutions coming under the purview of the
 State legislatures, provided State Governments
 wish to adopt and implement the Scheme subject
 to the following terms and conditions: 28. In this context, we also have to notice the

earlier executive orders of the Government, which also were

subject to scrutiny before this Court in the case of the

teaching staff themselves. We notice Exhibit P5 order in

W.P (C) No.7416 of 2019 [G.O)P) No.392/2010/H.Edn. dated

10.12.2010]. This order refers to G.O.(P) No.58/2010/H.Edn.

dated 27.03.2010. In the Government Order of 10.12.2010,

Clause-7 is relevant, which is extracted herein below: The Government Order read as (1) above refers to the order

dated 27.03.2010, which specifically provided by Clause

11.7 that "The age of superannuation shall continue as at

present". Hence it continued as 56 years as available in
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 58 - connected cases

the Government service. 29. On almost similar contentions, relying on the

UGC Regulations of 2010; teachers of the aided colleges

within the State sought for continuation of their services

upto the age of 60; which contention was further sought to

be fortified on the ground of discrimination insofar as the

teachers directly under the Universities being

superannuated only at the age of 60. Two writ petitions,

numbered as W.P.(C).10257 and 11511 of 2016, were dismissed

by a common judgment dated 28.03.2016 [ Dr.J.Vijayan &

Others v. State of Kerala & Others ] by one of us [K.Vinod

Chandran,J.]. The appeals, W.A.Nos.734 and 854 of 2016,

filed against the said judgment were dismissed by a

Division Bench by judgment dated 13.12.2017 [ Dr.J.Vijayan &

Others v. State of Kerala & Others ]. The Division Bench

dealt with the contentions in detail and elaborately quoted

from the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Jagdish

Prasad Sharma (supra). It was found that the judgment of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court concluded all the issues raised

in the cases as against the teachers insofar as the State

having primacy in deciding on the service conditions under Article 309 of the Constitution. The statutory character of

the UGC Regulations and the obligation of the UGC to follow
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 59 - connected cases

the directions issued by the Central Government in view of Section 20 of the UGC Act was affirmed following the

decision in P.Suseela. 30. The contentions raised before the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Jagdish Prasad Sharma was as to whether

the Scheme of 2008 framed by the UGC had a binding effect

on educational institutions run by the different States and

under State enactments. The scheme also included

enhancement of retirement age of teachers to 65 years,

which was also a condition insofar as, the Central

Government bearing 80% of the additional liability with

respect to the enhancement of pay for a specified period.

The State of Kerala had implemented the pay scales

recommended by the UGC, without enhancing the age of

superannuation. The State of Kerala argued before the

Hon'ble Supreme Court that the situation in the State was

drastically different from that existing in the other

States insofar as the State is having surplus qualified and

eligible hands, waiting for employment, which necessitated

the prescription of a lower retirement age. The teachers

had argued before the Hon'ble Supreme Court, specifically

referring to the Government Orders of 2010, that the

executive orders issued under Article 162 of the
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 60 - connected cases

Constitution cannot override the statutory regulations

framed by the UGC. What was assailed specifically before

the Supreme Court was the prescription at Clause-7

extracted hereinabove of the Government order dated

10.12.2010. The Hon'ble Supreme Court held in favour of the

State affirming the stand taken, relying on Article 309 and

refused to find a case for enhancement of retirement age

based only on the UGC Regulations. 31. Paragraphs 67 to 70, 72 and 78 of Jagdish

Prasad Sharma (supra) are apposite, which we extract herein

below: 32. The source of legislative power has to be

traced to Article 245 and Article 246 of the Constitution,

which effects a complete separation of the powers of the

Union and the States. The Entries in the Lists have been

held to be a simple enumeration of broad categories not
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 65 - connected cases

allocated on a scientific or logical reasoning. The various

entries in the three Lists are not powers of legislation,

but only fields of legislation as held in State of W.B. v.

Kesoram Industries Ltd. [(2004) 10 SCC 201]. The age of

retirement prescribed by the State is under Article 309 , to

which alone can be traced the power to so prescribe the age

of superannuation, which definitely is a service condition.

There does not arise any question of resolution of a

conflict arising between the legislation under Entry 66 of

List 1 and Entry 25 of List II of the Seventh Schedule.

Superannuation hence is a condition of service, the power

to prescribe which vests clearly on the State Legislature

and there can be found no lack of jurisdiction. The two

grounds of challenge, possible against a legislation as

found in Mc Dowell and Co. has to be rejected. 33. Yet again the Division Bench in Dr.J.Vijayan &

Others noticed that "the Central Government itself had by

its letter dated 14.08.2012 clarified the position that the

age of superannuation was exclusively within the domain of

the policy making powers of the State Government and that

the condition regarding the enhancement of age of

superannuation may be treated as withdrawn" (sic. Para 11).

The specific clause 4 is extracted below from the letter
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 66 - connected cases

of the MHRD: Yet another clause, Clause 5, relevant to the issue can be

found in the extract we make, in the succeeding paragraph

from the decision of the Division Bench. 34. The Division Bench in Dr.J.Vijayan (supra), in

the light of the authoritative pronouncement in Jagdish

Prasad Sharma (supra) held so in paragraphs 14 & 15 : Reference No.1 in the said Government Order is to
 G.O.(P) No.58/2010/H.Edn. dated 27.3.2010 (Ext.P8 in
 W.A. No.854 of 2016). It is the said Government
 Order that is directed to prevail as per Clause 6
 extracted above. It has been ordered by the said
 Government Order that the age of superannuation
 shall continue as at present. In the above context,
 it is necessary to notice that as per letter No.
 F.I-7/2010-U.II dated 14.8.2012 of the MHRD (a copy
 of which has been handed
 over to us by the counsel in Court), it has been
 clarified that the issue regarding age of retirement
 has been left to the decision of the State
 Governments. Paragraph 5 that deals with the above
 aspect is extracted hereunder for convenience of
 reference: 35. Hence, when the retirement age as provided for

in the UGC Regulations for teachers was not an aspect which

had to be mandatorily adopted, there was no question of

enhancement of retirement age of Branch Officers, which was

not provided for in the UGC Regulations, being adopted by

the Government. The adoption of the UGC Regulations of

1998, (which was by then superseded), by Exhibit P5 dated

29.08.2014 [produced in W.P(C) No.7267 of 2019] is on a

misunderstanding, misconception and totally wrong premise.

The Government has now defined the appointment to be one of

tenure by the Ordinance which is perfectly within the

powers of the Government and also comes within the ambit of

a policy formulation. 36. Now we look at the contention raised of the

retirement age being a stipulation in the statute and the
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 70 - connected cases

statute having been sought to be amended, for which the

Syndicate has already taken a decision; which is pending

with the Chancellor of the University. We have to decide

this question looking at the amended and unamended

provisions in the Act and the specific power conferred to

prescribe matters by way of Statutes. The appointment of

the Registrar, Controller of Examinations and Finance

Officer is regulated by Sections 12, 13 and 14 of the

M.G.University Act, Sections 14 , 15 and 16 of the Kannur

University Act and Sections 12 , 13 and 14 of the Calicut

University Act; all of which, more or less, are of the

same purport. The unamended provisions provide that such

statutory officers shall be whole time salaried officers

appointed by the Syndicate for such period and on such

terms as may be prescribed by the statutes. The power to

frame the statutes is available in Section 35 of the

M.G.University Act, Section 37 of the Kannur University Act

and Section 34 of the Calicut University Act; again are in

pari materia provisions. The power so conferred is subject

to the provisions of the Act and it provides provision for

all or any of the matters enumerated thereunder. The

provision also confers the power to make prescription with

respect to all matters, which, by the provisions of this
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 71 - connected cases

Act, are to be prescribed by statutes. 37. As we noticed, the provision dealing with the

appointment of the statutory officers, prior to amendment,

specifically provides for the terms of appointment to be

prescribed by the statutes, which takes in the retirement

age also. The provision for retirement age in the Statutes

was made on the basis of the specific power conferred under

the Act. The amended provision incorporated by the

Ordinance, in the various Acts are in pari materia and is

as follows: 38. The amended provision itself provides for the

term of office of the statutory officer which is a period

of four years from the date on which he enters upon the

office or till he completes the age of 56 years, whichever

is earlier. This is well within the powers of the State
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 72 - connected cases

Legislature under Article 309 of the Constitution. The

amended provision also further provides for prescription by

the statutes the terms and conditions of appointment. This

does not include the tenure of appointment; which has been

laid down by the amended provision itself. The crucial

difference between the unamended provision and the amended

one is that while the unamended provision spoke of the

appointment of the statutory officer as a whole-time

salaried employee on such terms and conditions as may be

prescribed by the statute, the amended provision provided

for appointment only upto 4 years or completion of the age

of 56 years, whichever is earlier on such terms and

conditions as prescribed by the statute. Hence, the amended

provision took away the power conferred to prescribe the

tenure of appointment of the statutory officers, which the

law making authority itself provided for. Though it is

argued that the Syndicate has already approved the

amendment to the statutes prescribing the retirement age to

be 60 years, the said amendment to the statutes would have

no effect even if carried out, since the power to prescribe

the period of appointment has been taken away by the law

making authority. The Statutes as provided for in the Act,

is a subordinate legislation and the power to make
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 73 - connected cases

prescriptions by way of a subordinate legislation is only

to the extent specifically conferred by the enactment. The

enactments, herein the M.G.University Act, Kannur

University Act and Calicut University Act; having now

provided for a specific tenure, determined either by the

four year period or the age of retirement as generally

applicable to the State Government employees, whichever is

earlier; the tenure ends with the first of such

contingencies occurring. The contention that the statutes

have to be amended to regulate the age of superannuation,

hence, fails. 39. On the above reasoning, we do not find any

relevance to All Kerala Private College Teachers'

Association (supra), the decision relied on by

Sri.V.A.Muhammed. There can be no dispute on the

declaration therein that the Statutes of the University

after its framing at the first instance by the State, can

only be altered or amended by the Syndicate conferred with

the power to prescribe. Here, it is not a case of the State

having altered the Statutes at all. The State, by the

amendment in the Act, has divested the Syndicate of the

power to prescribe the period/tenure of appointment of

statutory officers; by providing for it in the Act itself. The Syndicate, by the amended provisions, has been divested

of the authority or competence to prescribe in the

subordinate legislation the age of retirement since now it

is a tenure appointment. 40. In this context, we also find the decision of

the Division Bench of this Court in Dr.A.M.Michael (supra)

relied on by Sri. Poonthottam, to be not applicable to the

facts of the instant cases. Therein, a Vice-Chancellor was

appointed for a specific term by virtue of a provision

which provided continuation for a tenure of five years,

which was later amended with a proviso aimed at ceasing the

tenure on attaining the age of 65 years; with a further

proviso to terminate the tenure of the Vice-Chancellor

appointed and continuing on completion of 65 years.

Therein, the unamended section specifically contained a

sub-section which provided that the emoluments and other

conditions of service of the Vice-Chancellor shall not be

varied to his disadvantage after his appointment. There is

no such provision in the present case in the Act at the

time of appointment nor in the Statutes. Further, here in

the amendment, by way of an Ordinance, there is a specific

provision insofar as making the amendment applicable to

those persons in service as per Section 10 . 41. We do not think Section 10 can be challenged

as being ultra vires the Act as strenuously urged by

Sri.Ibrahim. In fact, the Ordinance has been promulgated by

the Governor invoking his powers under Article 213 of the

Constitution, which permits the Governor to so act when the

Legislature is not in session. The source of the power for

promulgating the Ordinance has to be traced to the source

of the power of the Legislature, which has its source in Article 309 of the Constitution. The Governor acting under Article 213 , is acting on behalf of the Legislature and the

prescription of the tenure of appointment of statutory

officers in a University is perfectly within the competence

of the Legislature. If at all; the argument could have been

that the power invoked is ultra vires the Constitution,

which, however, cannot be; by virtue of Article 309. We are

surprised that such an argument was raised by one of the

petitioners especially noticing the fact that a Full Bench

of this Court had specifically dealt with such a contention

almost half a century back. We extract paragraphs 13 from N.Srinivasan (supra): connected cases

 itself. Under the proviso to Article 309 , the
 governor has full powers, subject of course to the
 provisions of the Constitution, to make rules
 regulating the conditions of service of the members
 of the State services, the only limitation placed
 on the operation of the rules so made being that
 they must yield to any law which the legislature
 itself might make in the matter. No such limitation
 as that what we might call a disadvantageous rule
 can be made in respect of a person already in
 service only with his consent it is to be found in
 the article. Not even the petitioner himself has
 attempted to find in it such a limitation. And, if
 the effect of rule 6 be, as the petitioner claim,
 it is that the Governor has passed a self-denying
 ordinance precluding himself from making
 disadvantageous rules in respect of persons already
 in service without their consent that ordinance
 would be ultra vires article 309. Nor could it
 possibly be found an estoppel since the estoppel
 would be against the article. The utmost that can
 be said is that, as a matter of construction, rule
 6 and the re-amended rule should, if possible, be
 so read as not to conflict with each other. But, if
 conflict is unavoidable, then it would appear that,
 to the extent of the conflict, the re-amended rule
 must prevail on the doctrine of implied repeal".
We desist from remarking on the identical contention raised

after half-a-century; but reject the same. 42. We are not convinced that the decisions as
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 77 - connected cases

placed reliance on by Sri.Shyam Krishnan, viz., AIR 1967 SC

1305 [Dinnapati Sadasiva Reddi, Vice- Chancellor, Osmania

University v. Chancellor, Osmania University & Others] and

( 2008) 5 SCC 1 [P.Venugopal v. Union of India ] have any

application to the present case. Therein, the amendment

terminating the services of incumbents in office, was

interfered with finding it to be a one man legislation

aimed at curtailing the tenure of one single person.

T.P.George and B.Bharat Kumar fortifies the finding that

the age of retirement as prescribed in the UGC Scheme

cannot be claimed as a right of the teachers, when the

Government has not accepted the recommendation of the UGC.

The age of retirement being a policy matter it is within

the exclusive premise of the State. The age of retirement

as provided in the statutes at the time when all the

petitioners were appointed to the service was either 55 or 56. They cannot have any claim of legitimate expectation of

being continued beyond such age of retirement at the time

of their appointment. We pause here to note that two of the

petitioners herein [petitioners in W.P.(C) Nos.7431 and

7435 of 2019] have not reached the superannuation age as

provided for in the statutes at the time of their

appointment; but, we will deal with that issue later. The
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 78 - connected cases

legitimate expectation as projected by all the petitioners

is to continue upto 60 years based on the adoption of the

retirement age prescribed in the UGC Regulations of 1998 so

adopted on 29.08.2014. In fact, we have found that the UGC

Regulations of 1998 was superseded and even when there was

a retirement age prescribed under the Regulations of the

UGC with respect to the teaching faculty, that was

withdrawn by the communication of the Ministry of Human

Resources Department on 14.08.2012. We found that the

adoption of the retirement age at 60 years by the

Government was on a total misunderstanding of the

Regulations existing as on that date. It was also against

the specific policy of the Government with respect to the

teachers of the aided colleges as has been declared in the

Government Orders of 27.03.2010 and 10.12.2010. 43. As far as the two petitioners who have not

reached 56 years and whose services stand terminated, the

learned Advocate General has assured us that they could go

back to their parent department as has been provided in the

Ordinance itself. For both, it is to aided college service,

which Management, is not a party herein. But all the same

the Advocate General assures us that suitable measures will

be taken to continue them in their parent department. The
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 79 - connected cases

University and the State has a control over the Colleges

from which they came to take up their assignments with the

University; insofar as the affiliation being from the

former and the funding from the latter. The Government

could definitely adjust equities. Even otherwise, the

remedy for compensation would be available to them and it

may not be proper for us to venture into that in these writ

petitions which only challenge the Ordinance. We leave that

question open, if so desired, to be agitated before the

appropriate forum. But, we emphasize that individual

hardship cannot be a reason to interfere with the

legislative exercise carried on by the State to implement a

valid policy arrived at on the basis of expert opinion and

intended at providing uniformity of tenure of statutory

officers in the Universities in the State. As for as the

two, who came from aided college service and completed 56

years, they have enjoyed tenure beyond the period they

would have enjoyed in their parent department and they

cannot claim any vested right to be continued till 60 years

or a legitimate expectation on that count. As far as the

Finance Officer, the retirement age in the K.S.F.E. would

determine his remedy either to go back to the parent

department or compensation; which he could take up
 W.A.791 of 2019 & - 80 - connected cases

independently. In the light of the above findings, we reject the

Writ Petitions. As a consequence, the Writ Appeals are

closed as unnecessary. The costs of the litigation would be

the liability of the respective parties. Sd/- K.VINOD CHANDRAN
 JUDGE

 Sd/- V.G.ARUN
 JUDGE

Vku/- 228/2000/AII (3)/ADMN. DATED 31.05.2000

EXHIBIT P2 THE PHOTOCOPY OF THE LETTER NO. AD/AII(3)/288/2000/ADMN. DATED 5.10.2000
 ISSUED BY THE 3RD RESPONDENT. EXHIBIT P3 THE PHOTOCOPY OF THE ORDER NO. 288/2000/AII
 (3) /ADMN. DATED 27.10.2000 ISSUED BY THE
 3RD RESPONDENT. EXHIBIT P4 THE PHOTOCOPY OF THE NOTIFICATION NO. AC.L/1/112/SA RETIREMENT AGE 2013/ DATED
 1.7.2013 ISSUED BY THE 3RD RESPONDENT. EXHIBIT P5 THE PHOTOCOPY OF GO (MS) NO. 745/2014/H.EDN. DATED 29.8.2014 ISSUED BY
 THE 1ST RESPONDENT. EXHIBIT P6 THE PHOTOCOPY OF THE UNIVERSITY LAWS
 (AMENDMENT) ORDINANCE, 2019. EXHIBIT P7 THE PHOTOCOPY OF THE ORDER NO. 704/1/13/2019 DATED 8.3.2019 ISSUED BY THE
 4TH RESPONDENT. EXHIBIT P8 THE PHOTOCOPY OF THE ORDER NO. 928/AD/A2/2019/MGU DATED 8.3.2019 ISSUED BY
 THE 3RD RESPONDENT. EXHIBIT P9 THE PHOTOCOPY OF THE NEWS ITEM WHICH
 APPEARED IN THE MATHRUBHUMI DAILY
 (ERNAKULAM EDITION), IN ITS ISSUE DATED
 9.3.2019. NO.1355/2002/H.EDN. DATED 16/10/2002.

EXHIBIT P10 TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER NO.ACD
 C1/13117/NSS/HSE/2002 DATED 22/11/2002.

EXHIBIT P11 TRUE COPY OF THE NOTIFICATION DATED
 22/07/2004. EXHIBIT P12 TRUE COPY OF THE APPOINTMENT ORDER
 NO.AD.4534/2004/AII(3)/CE/ADMN. DATED
 05/03/2005. EXHIBIT P13 TRUE COPY OF THE RELIEVING ORDER DATED
 05/03/2005. EXHIBIT P14 TRUE COPY OF THE CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER OF
 CHARGES DATED 05/03/2005. EXHIBIT P15 TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER
 NO.AD/4534/2004/AII(3)/CE/ADMN DATED
 10/03/2005. NO.AD.4534/2004/AII(3)/ADMN. DATED
 03/04/2006. EXHIBIT P17 TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER NO.AD.AII(3)/4534/04
 DATED 17/10/2006. EXHIBIT P18 TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER NO.5270/AII(3)
 2011/ADMN DATED 22/09/2011. EXHIBIT P19 TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER
 NO.AC.L/1/112/SA/RETIREMENT AGE/2013 DATED
 01/07/2013. EXHIBIT P20 TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER NO.745/2014/H.EDN. DATED 29/08/2014. EXHIBIT P21 TRUE COPY OF THE U.O.NO.269/A
 III/2/2015/ADMN. DATED 09/01/2015. EXHIBIT P22 TRUE COPY OF THE ORDINANCE NO.21 OF 2019,
 THE UNIVERSITY LAWS (AMENDMENT) ORDINANCE,
 2019 DATED 06/03/2019. EXHIBIT P23 TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER NO.704/1/13/2019
 DATED 08/03/2019. EXHIBIT P24 TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER NO.924/AD
 A2/2019/MGU DATED 08/03/2019. EXHIBIT P25 TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER NO.928/AD A2/MGU
 DATED 08/03/2019. WHICH THE PROBATION OF THE PETITIONER WAS
 DECLARED. EXHIBIT P5 TRUE COPY OF THE G.O.(P) NO.392/2010/H.EDN. DATED 10/12/2010. EXHIBIT P6 TRUE COPY OF THE AMENDMENT TO THE STATUTE
 AS AMENDED BY THE UNIVERSITY WITH ALL
 ACCOMPANIED DOCUMENTS FORWARDED TO TH
 CHANCELLOR. EXHIBIT P7 TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER ISSUED BY THE
 GOVERNMENT DATED 29/08/2014 WITH ITS TYPED
 COPY. EXHIBIT P8 TRUE COPY OF THE AMENDMENT SO MADE AND
 ISSUED ON 06/03/2019. EXHIBIT P9 TRUE COPY OF THE DETAILS OF THE SESSION OF
 THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY AS AVAILABLE FROM
 THE WEBSITE OF THE KERALA LEGISLATIVE
 ASSEMBLY. EXHIBIT P10 TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER NO. 63411/AD-F-ASST- 2/2013/CU(1) DATED 13/3/2019 ISSUED BY THE
 VICE CHANCELLOR. EXHIBIT P11 TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER
 U.O.NO.3832/2019/ADMN. DATED 15/3/2019
 ISSUED BY THE UNIVERSITY. 23.9.2013 ISSUED UNIVERSITY OF CALICUT.

EXHIBIT P4 TRUE COPY OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE
 SELECTION COMMITTEE OF THE SYNDICATE OF
 UNIVERSITY DATED 21.1.2014. EXHIBIT P5 TRUE COPY OF THE LETTER DATED 1.1.2014 FOR
 APPOINTMENT ISSUED TO THE PETITIONER AS
 REGISTERED. EXHIBIT P6 TRUE COPY OF THE RELIEVING ORDER DATED
 6.1.2014 ISSUED BY THE MANAGER, MAMO
 COLLEGE. EXHIBIT P7 TRUE COPY OF THE U.O.NO.410/2014/CU DATED
 13.1.2014. EXHIBIT P8 TRUE COPY OF THE U.O.NO.10337/2015/ADMN. DATED 1.10.2015. EXHIBIT P9 TRUE COPY OF THE NOTIFICATION VIDE
 NO.67305/AD-F-ASST-2/2013/CU DATED
 18.1.2014. EXHIBIT P10 TRUE COPY OF THE GOVERNMENT LETTER
 NO.23949/D2/14/H.EDN. DATED 15.7.2014.

EXHIBIT P11 TRUE COPY OF THE U.O.NO.4935/2014/ADMN. DATED 21.5.2014. EXHIBIT P12 TRUE COPY OF THE U.O.NO.434/2014/FIN. DATED
 5.6.2014. EXHIBIT P13 TRUE COPY OF THE U.O.NO.5740/2014/ADMN. DATED 16.6.2014. EXHIBIT P14 TRUE COPY OF THE GOVERNMENT LETTER
 NO.425/B1/2016/H.EDN. DATED 16.8.2016. THE UNIVERSITY LAWS (AMENDMENT) ORDINANCE,
 2019. EXHIBIT P19 TRUE COPY OF THE APPOINTMENT ORDER OF
 DR.ABBAS.T.P. DATED 30.5.2018. 6.3.2019 PUBLISHING THE UNIVERSITY LAWS
 (AMENDMENT) ORDINANCE, 2019. EXHIBIT P3 TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER NO.AD.A2.7490/2013
 OF THE VICE CHANCELLOR DATED 8.3.2019. [TRUE COPY]