Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:2264 )

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MMO No 1041 of 2024. Reserved on: 27.12.2024. Date of Decision: 10.01.2025. Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 No

 For the Petitioners : Mr. Sanjeev Kumar Suri,
 Advocate. For the Respondents/State : Mr. Lokender Kutlehria,
 Additional Advocate General for
 respondents No.1 to 3. None for respondents No. 4 to 8. Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The petitioners have filed the present petition to quash

 FIR No. 144 of 2010, dated 17.04.2010, registered at Police Station

 Nurpur, District Kangra, for the commission of offences punishable

 under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120B , 452 , 323 , 506 , and 147 of

 the Indian Penal Code (hereinafter referred to as IPC ) and the

 consequent proceedings arising out of the FIR. Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:2264 ) 2. As per the FIR, late Smt. Kalawati had executed a Will. Another Will stated to have been executed by her was propounded

by Vijay Kumar, Ashok Kumar, Vinay Kumar, Rahul and Raja, which

was stated to be forged. The police registered the FIR and

conducted the investigation. It was found during the investigation

that the person, who wrote the signatures on the admitted

document did not put the signatures on the disputed Will. The Will

propounded by the accused was found to be forged. The police filed

a chargesheet against the accused before the Court. 3. The present petition has been filed for quashing the FIR

based on the compromise between the parties. It was asserted that

the matter has been compromised voluntarily, and the parties do

not want to proceed further in the matter. Therefore, it was prayed

that the present petition be allowed and the FIR be quashed. 4. I have heard Mr. Sanjeev Kumar Suri, learned counsel

for the petitioners and Mr. Lokender Kutlehria, learned Additional

Advocate General for the respondents/State. 5. Mr. Sanjeev Kumar Suri, learned counsel for the

petitioners, submitted that the matter has been compromised

between the parties. They want to settle all the disputes. He prayed 3 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:2264 )

that the present petition be allowed and the FIR be quashed. He

relied upon the judgments of this Court in Rajesh Kumar Jaswal and

another versus State of H.P. & another 2017: HHC 1606, Subhash Chand

versus State of H.P. & another 2019 HHC:9678 and K. Bharthi Devi &

Anr. Versus State of Telangana & Anr 2024 INSC 750 in support of his

submission. 6. Mr Lokender Kutlehria, learned Additional Advocate

General for the respondents/State, submitted that FIR registered

for the commission of offences punishable under Sections 467 , 468 and 471 of IPC involves the forgery of the documents and such

offences are against the society. They should not be quashed by the

High Court in the exercise of its inherent powers. 7. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 8. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Parbatbhai Aahir v. State of Gujarat (2017) 9 SCC 641 that where the

settlement between the offender and the victim is regarding the

offences against the society, the same will not justify the quashing

of the FIR. The offences punishable under Sections 467 , 468 and 471 of the IPC involve the forgery of the document and such 4 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:2264 )

offences cannot be quashed under Section 482 of the IPC. It was

observed:- The gravity of the offence creates a dent in the
 economic spine of the nation." Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:2264 )

The judgment of the High Court quashing the criminal
proceedings was hence set aside by this Court. 14. The same principle was followed in CBI v. Maninder
Singh [CBI v. Maninder Singh, (2016) 1 SCC 389: (2016) 1 SCC
(Cri) 292] by a Bench of two learned Judges of this Court. In
that case, the High Court had, in the exercise of its inherent
power under Section 482 , quashed proceedings under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 and 471 read with Section 120-B of
the Penal Code. While allowing the appeal filed by the Central
Bureau of Investigation, Mr Justice Dipak Misra (as the
learned Chief Justice then was) observed that the case
involved allegations of forgery of documents to embezzle the
funds of the bank. In such a situation, the fact that the
dispute had been settled with the bank would not justify a
recourse to the power under Section 482 (SCC p. 394, para 17)
 "17. ... In economic offences, the Court must not only
 keep in view that money has been paid to the bank
 which has been defrauded but also the society at large.
 It is not a case of simple assault or theft of a trivial
 amount, but the offence with which we are concerned
 was well planned and was committed with a deliberate
 design with an eye on personal profit regardless of
 consequence to the society at large. To quash the
 proceeding merely on the ground that the accused has
 settled the amount with the bank would be a misplaced
 sympathy. If the prosecution against the economic
 offenders is not allowed to continue, the entire
 community is aggrieved." 15. In a subsequent decision in State of T.N. v. R. Vasanthi
Stanley [State of T.N. v. R. Vasanthi Stanley, (2016) 1 SCC 376: We say no more on this score. 15. ... A grave criminal offence or serious economic
 offence, or for that matter the offence that has the
 potential to create a dent in the financial health of the
 institutions, is not to be quashed on the ground that
 there is a delay in trial or the principle that when the
 matter has been settled, it should be quashed to avoid
 the load on the system. ..." 16. The broad principles which emerge from the precedents
on the subject may be summarised in the following
propositions: Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:2264 )

 16.8. Criminal cases involving offences which arise
 from commercial, financial, mercantile, partnership or
 similar transactions with an essentially civil flavour
 may, in appropriate situations, fall for quashing where
 parties have settled the dispute. 16.9. In such a case, the High Court may quash the
 criminal proceeding if, in view of the compromise
 between the disputants, the possibility of a conviction
 is remote and the continuation of a criminal
 proceeding would cause oppression and prejudice and
 16.10. There is yet an exception to the principle set out
 in propositions 16.8. and 16.9. above. Economic
 offences involving the financial and economic well-
 being of the State have implications which lie beyond
 the domain of a mere dispute between private
 disputants. The High Court would be justified in
 declining to quash where the offender is involved in an
 activity akin to financial or economic fraud or
 misdemeanour. The consequences of the act
 complained of upon the financial or economic system
 will weigh in the balance. xxxxxx 18. The present case, as the allegations in the FIR would
demonstrate, is not merely one involving a private dispute
over a land transaction between two contesting parties. The
case involves allegations of extortion, forgery and
fabrication of documents, utilisation of fabricated
documents to effectuate transfers of title before the
registering authorities and the deprivation of the
complainant of his interest in land on the basis of a
fabricated power of attorney. If the allegations in the FIR are
construed as they stand, it is evident that they implicate
serious offences having a bearing on a vital societal interest
in securing the probity of titles to or interest in land. Such
offences cannot be construed to be merely private or civil
disputes but implicate the societal interest in prosecuting
serious crimes. In these circumstances, the High Court was 9 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:2264 )

 eminently justified in declining to quash the FIR, which had
 been registered under Sections 384 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B and 506(2) of the Penal Code." 9. It was held in CBI v. Hari Singh Ranka (2019) 16 SCC 687 : While exercising the power, the High Court is to
 form an opinion on either of the aforesaid two
 objectives. 29.3. Such a power is not to be exercised in those
 prosecutions which involve heinous and serious
 offences of mental depravity or offences like murder,
 rape, dacoity, etc. Such offences are not private in
 nature and have a serious impact on society. Similarly,
 for the offences alleged to have been committed under
 special statutes like the Prevention of Corruption Act or the offences committed by public servants while
 working in that capacity are not to be quashed merely 11 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:2264 )

 on the basis of compromise between the victim and the
 offender. 29.4. On the other hand, those criminal cases having
 overwhelmingly and predominantly civil character,
 particularly those arising out of commercial
 transactions or arising out of matrimonial
 relationships or family disputes, should be quashed
 when the parties have resolved their entire disputes
 among themselves. 29.5. While exercising its powers, the High Court is to
 examine as to whether the possibility of conviction is
 remote and bleak and continuation of criminal cases
 would put the accused to great oppression and
 prejudice and extreme injustice would be caused to
 him by not quashing the criminal cases.'
 *** 24. In the case at hand, as per the charge sheet, the
respondents had got LCs issued from the bank in favour of
fictitious companies propped up by them, and the
fictitious beneficiary companies had got letters of credit
discounted by attaching their bogus bills. The names of 10
fictitious companies have been mentioned in the charge
sheet. Thus, the allegation of forgery is very much there.
As is manifest from the impugned order [ Vikram Anantrai
Doshi v. State of Maharashtra , 2010 SCC OnLine Bom 2242],
the learned Single Judge has not adverted to the same. It
is not a simple case where an accused has borrowed
money from the bank and diverted it somewhere else and,
thereafter, paid the amount. It does not fresco a situation
where there is a dealing between a private financial
institution and an accused, and after initiation of the
criminal proceedings, he pays the sum and gets the
controversy settled. The exposé of facts tells a different
story. As submitted by the learned counsel for CBI, the
manner in which the letters of credit were issued and the
funds were siphoned off has a foundation in criminal law.
The learned counsel would submit that it does not depict a
case which has overwhelmingly and predominately a civil 12 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:2264 )

flavour. The intrinsic character is different. The emphasis
is laid on the creation of fictitious companies. *** 26. We are in respectful agreement with the aforesaid
view. Be it stated that availing of money from a
nationalised bank in the manner as alleged by the
investigating agency vividly exposits fiscal impurity and,
in a way, financial fraud. The modus operandi, as narrated
in the charge sheet, cannot be put in the compartment of
an individual or personal wrong. It is a social wrong, and
it has an immense societal impact. It is an accepted
principle of handling finance that whenever there is
manipulation and cleverly conceived contrivance to avail
of these kinds of benefits, it cannot be regarded as a case
having overwhelmingly and predominately civil
character. The ultimate victim is the collective. It creates a
hazard in the financial interest of the society. The gravity
of the offence creates a dent in the economic spine of the
nation. The cleverness which has been skilfully contrived,
if the allegations are true, has a serious consequence. A
crime of this nature, in our view, would definitely fall in
the category of offences which travel far ahead of
personal or private wrong. It has the potential to usher in
an economic crisis. Its implications have its own
seriousness, for it creates a concavity in the solemnity
that is expected in financial transactions. It is not such a
case where one can pay the amount and obtain a "no-
dues certificate" and enjoy the benefit of quashing of the
criminal proceeding on the hypostasis that nothing more
remains to be done. The collective interest of which the
Court is the guardian cannot be a silent or a mute
spectator to allow the proceedings to be withdrawn, or for
that matter, yield to the ingenuous dexterity of the
accused persons to invoke the jurisdiction under Article
226 of the Constitution or Section 482 of the Code and
quash the proceeding. It is not legally permissible. The
Court is expected to be on guard to these kinds of adroit
moves. The High Court, we humbly remind, should have
dealt with the matter keeping in mind that in this kind of 13 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:2264 )

 litigation, the accused, when perceives a tiny gleam of
 success, readily invokes the inherent jurisdiction for
 quashing the criminal proceeding. The Court's principal
 duty, at that juncture, should be to scan the entire facts to
 find out the thrust of the allegations and the crux of the
 settlement. It is the experience of the Judge that comes to
 his aid, and the said experience should be used with care,
 caution, circumspection and courageous prudence as we
 find in the case at hand, the learned Single Judge has not
 taken pains to scrutinise the entire conspectus of facts in
 proper perspective and quashed the criminal proceeding. The said quashment neither helps to secure the ends of
 justice nor does it prevent the abuse of the process of the
 Court nor can it be also said that as there is a settlement,
 no evidence will come on record, and there will be a
 remote chance of conviction. Such a finding, in our view,
 would be difficult to record. Be that as it may, the fact
 remains that the social interest would be on peril, and the
 prosecuting agency, in these circumstances, cannot be
 treated as an alien to the whole case. Ergo, we have no
 other option but to hold that the order [ Vikram Anantrai
 Doshi v. State of Maharashtra , 2010 SCC OnLine Bom 2242]
 of the High Court is wholly indefensible." 19. It has been observed by this Court that when the charge
sheet reflects that the respondent got LCs issued by the Bank
in favour of fictitious companies propped up by them and the
fictitious beneficiary companies had got letters of credits
discounted by attaching their bogus bills. It is not a simple
case where an accused has borrowed money from the bank
and diverted it somewhere else and, thereafter, paid the
amount. Civil settlement of the controversy would not suffice
to wipe off the criminal liability. The case reflects fiscal
impurity and, in a way, financial fraud. The modus operandi,
as narrated in the charge sheet, cannot be put in the
compartment of an individual or personal wrong. It is a
social wrong, and it has an immense societal impact. This
Court has further observed that the accepted principle of
handling of finance is that whenever there is manipulation
and cleverly conceived contrivance to avail of this kind of 14 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:2264 )

benefits, it cannot be regarded as a case having
overwhelmingly and predominantly civil character. The
gravity of the offence creates a dent in the economic spine of
the nation. The quashing of the case was set aside as social
interest would be in peril. The order of the High Court was
held to be indefensible. Facts are more or less similar in the
instant case, and as such, the impugned orders cannot be
permitted to be sustained on the anvil of the aforesaid
principles. 23. In Ashok Sadarangani case [ Ashok Sadarangani v. Union of
India , (2012) 11 SCC 321: (2013) 1 SCC (Civ) 298 : (2013) 1 SCC
(Cri) 638] offence was registered by CBI. The allegation was
that they had secured the credit facility by submitting forged
documents as collected and utilised such facilities in a
dishonest and fraudulent manner by obtaining letters of
credit in respect of foreign suppliers of goods without
actually bringing any goods but inducing the bank to
negotiate letters of credit in favour of the foreign suppliers
and also by exercising the cash credit facility. 24. This Court has considered the various decisions in Sushil
Suri case [ Sushil Suri v. CBI , (2011) 5 SCC 708: (2011) 2 SCC (Cri)
764] and Gian Singh case [ Gian Singh v. State of Punjab , (2012)
10 SCC 303 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 1188 : (2013) 1 SCC (Cri) 160 : Precise details of all the fictitious accounts, as also the
 further flow of money realised on encashment of demand
 drafts/pay orders, have been incorporated in the charge
 sheet. Additionally, by allegedly claiming depreciation on
 the new machinery, which was never purchased, on the
 basis of forged invoices, etc., the accused cheated the
 public exchequer as well." This Court considered the modus operandi noted in afore-
extracted para 23. Considering the allegations that the
accused had obtained pecuniary benefit by producing forged
documents, the case was dismissed, and the trial court was
directed to decide the case expeditiously. The facts of the
instant case are more or less similar. 12. Recently, in CBI v. Maninder Singh [(2016) 1 SCC 389], the
allegation against the accused was that bill of lading
presented by the proprietors of the accused firms were found
forged and cases were registered under Section 120-B IPC
read with Section 420 IPC and Section 5(2) read with Section
5(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 and further
substantive offences under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 16 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:2264 ) IPC . The accused person arrived at a settlement with the
Bank and thereafter moved the High Court under Section 482 CrPC for quashing of the FIR. The High Court placed
[ Maninder Singh v. CBI , 2009 SCC OnLine Del 4246] reliance
on the decision in Nikhil Merchant [(2008) 9 SCC 677 : (2008)
3 SCC (Cri) 858] and allowed the petition and directed for
quashing of the criminal proceedings. This Court placed
reliance on Vikram Anantrai Doshi [(2014) 15 SCC 29 : (2014)
10 Scale 690] and came to hold as follows : ( Maninder Singh case [(2016) 1 SCC 389], SCC p. 394, paras 16-17)
 "16. The allegation against the respondent is 'forgery' for
 the purpose of cheating and the use of forged documents
 as genuine in order to embezzle the public money. After
 facing such serious charges of forgery, the respondent
 wants the proceedings to be quashed on account of
 settlement with the bank. The development in means of
 communication, science and technology, etc., has led to
 an enormous increase in economic crimes, viz. phishing,
 ATM frauds, etc., which are being committed by
 intelligent but devious individuals involving huge sums of
 public or government money. These are actually public
 wrongs or crimes committed against society, and the
 gravity and magnitude attached to these offences is
 concentrated at the public at large. 17. The inherent power of the High Court under Section
 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure should be sparingly
 used. Only when the Court comes to the conclusion that
 there would be manifest injustice or there would be abuse
 of the process of the Court if such power is not exercised
 can the Court would quash the proceedings. In economic
 offences the Court must not only keep in view that money
 has been paid to the bank which has been defrauded but
 also the society at large. It is not a case of simple assault
 or theft of a trivial amount, but the offence with which we
 are concerned was well planned and was committed with
 a deliberate design with an eye on personal profit
 regardless of consequence to the society at large. To
 quash the proceeding merely on the ground that the 17 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:2264 )

 accused has settled the amount with the bank would be a
 misplaced sympathy." 10. This position was reiterated in Daxaben v. State of

Gujarat (2022) 16 SCC 117: 2022 SCC OnLine SC 936, wherein it was

observed at page 134: 11. Even this Court had refused to quash the FIR registered

under the Prevention of Corruption Act and Sections 120-B , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 of IPC in Praveen Kumar Jain vs CBI 2009 (3) Shim.LC 31. 18 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:2264 ) 12. The Hon'ble Supreme Court held in K. Bharthi Devi

(supra) that criminal cases having overwhelmingly and

predominately civil character, particularly those arising from

commercial transactions, matrimonial relationships or family

disputes, should be quashed when the parties have settled the

dispute amongst themselves. When the dispute arose regarding the

loan transaction was settled between the bank and the borrower,

the FIR can be quashed. 13. In the present case, the accused had forged a Will, which

is not a family dispute, as forging a document cannot involve the

family of the person. It was a deliberate act meant to subvert the

course of justice by propounding a will; therefore, such an offence

cannot be said to be private in nature but affects the administration

of the justice, and if such matters are permitted to be compounded,

the person can forge the documents with impunity and when the

forgery is detected cannot settle the matter amongst themselves. The ultimate sufferers in such cases would be society, who would

be forced to face a larger number of cases of forgery; therefore, the

FIR in the present case cannot be quashed based on the

compromise effected between the parties. Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:2264 ) 14. In Rajesh Kumar Jaswal (supra) and Subhash Chand (supra) the disputes were concerned between borrower and

 creditor and these judgments do not apply in the present case. 15. In view of the above, the present petition fails, and the

 same is dismissed. 16. The observation made herein before shall remain

 confined to the disposal of the petition and will have no bearing,

 whatsoever, on the merits of the case. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge

10th January,2025
 (Nikita)