State Bank of India, Civil Lines Fountain Chowk, Ludhiana. 2. State Bank of India, Correspondence Department DLF Infinity
 Tower C, 10-12 Floor, Block 2, Building 3, DLF Cyber City,
 Gurgaon-122002, Haryana, India. First Appeal under Section 41 of
 Consumer Protection Act, 2019 against
 orders dated 18.04.2022 passed by the
 District Consumer Disputes Redressal
 Commission, Ludhiana. Quorum:- Hon'ble Mrs. Justice Daya Chaudhary, President

Present:- Fraudulent transactions had taken place by withdrawing the amounts

through her credit card on 04.05.2019, 27.05.2019 and 30.05.2019.

An amount of Rs.40,000/- was withdrawn which was more than the

permissible limit whereas it was not possible to withdraw more than

permissible limit of Rs.32,000/-. Meaning thereby an extra amount of

Rs.8000/- was withdrawn. It was also mentioned that said

withdrawals were there on three different dates and that too outside

Punjab. Further it was mentioned that the transactions were result of

fraud in connivance with the bank officials. It was also mentioned that 3 First Appeal No.545 of 2022 the complainant never went outside Ludhiana since the issuance of

the credit card. 4. The prayer was in the complaint that the OPs be directed

to refund the amount of Rs.40,000/- into her account and she be

compensated for the 'negligence' and 'deficiency of service' on the

part of the OPs. 5. Said complaint was opposed by the OPs, as notices were

issued to them by the District Commission. In the written statement

filed on behalf of OP No.1 a preliminary objection was raised that the

complaint was not maintainable against OP No.1 as the credit card

was issued by OP No.2. The allegations made in the complaint

against OP No.1 were stated to be false and frivolous. Other

averments made in the complaint were also denied and a prayer was

made in the reply for dismissal of the complaint qua to him. In support

of defence, OP No.1 tendered affidavit of Suresh Kumar Das, Chief

Manager as Ex.RA-1 and closed its evidence. 6. OP No.2 also filed reply stating therein that allegations of

fraud were there for which detailed evidence were required. It was

also mentioned that there was an arbitration clause in the agreement

with the card holder and the District Commission was having no

jurisdiction to try the complaint. It was also mentioned that no

transaction could be carried without knowing the detail of the card

which was only in the knowledge of the complainant and every

customer is informed not to share the card details with any persons. It 4 First Appeal No.545 of 2022 was also mentioned in the reply that immediately after the transaction

the SMS was sent on the registered mobile of the complainant but

nothing was stated about subsequent transactions even after receipt

of SMS on her mobile. Even the complainant never contacted after

receiving the messages. In support of above averments, OP No.2 has

tendered in evidence the affidavit of Punit Babbar, Authorized Person

alongwith documents Ex.RB/1 and RB/2 and closed the evidence. 7. On appraisal of contents of complaint as well as the reply

filed by OPs No.1 and 2 and also by considering the arguments

raised by the parties the complaint was dismissed vide order dated

18.04.2022 stating therein that there were allegations of fraud in the

complaint and the proceedings before the Consumer Fora is

summary in nature could not be proved and as such complainant was

advised to approach the Civil Court. 8. Being aggrieved by order dated 18.04.2022 the

appellant/complainant has approached this Commission way of filing

the appeal. There was a delay of 10 days in filing of the appeal. M.A.

No.901 of 2022 was filed for condonation of delay which was

supported by an affidavit. Said application was allowed vide order

dated 01.07.2022 and delay in filing the appeal was condoned and

M.A. was disposed of accordingly. 9. Mr. Gurbax Singh Gill, authorized representative of the

appellant/complainant at the very outset submits that it was a case of

gross negligence on the part of respondent bank but inadvertently the 5 First Appeal No.545 of 2022 word fraud was used which has been made basis for dismissal of the

complaint. Mr. G.S. Gill also submits that the complainant never went

outside Ludhiana during the last 10 years of the occurence due to old

age of her father. A number of transactions had taken place of

different amounts on different dates i.e. 04.05.2019, 27.05.2019 and

30.05.2019. The limit of the card was of Rs.32,000/- but the

withdrawal amount was more than the prescribed limit. The card was

blocked on 30.05.2019. It was a case of total negligence and

'deficiency of service' on the part of OP bank. At the end it has been

submitted that the complaint has been dismissed without saying

anything on the merits of the complaint but only on the allegation of

fraud. 10. Mr. Sandeep Suri, Advocate learned counsel for the

respondents has opposed the submissions made by authorized

representative of the appellant/complainant. The contentions raised in

the complaint and arguments were considered by the District

Commission and detailed and well reasoned order was passed. He

further submits that in case the complainant came to know about the

fraud she should have immediately blocked the card but nothing was

done after withdrawal of the amount. Learned counsel further submits

that no transactions could have taken place in absence of OTP which

was with the complainant only and no other person was supposed to

have the same. The complainant being the credit card holder was

supposed not to share her card details to any other person and

because of that reason the card holders are advised by the bank that 6 First Appeal No.545 of 2022 they should not disclose their card number to any other person. The

complainant has miserably failed to prove that transaction had

occurred in a fraudulent manner. 11. Heard the arguments raised by both the parties and I

have carefully gone through the order passed by the District

Commission and other relevant record available on file including the

complaint. 12. Facts relating to filing of complaint, reply thereof and

passing of impugned order and thereafter filing of appeal by the

appellant/complainant are not in dispute. As per the case of the

appellant/complainant the amount was withdrawn from the account of

the complainant through credit card in fraudulent manner by some

other person outside the Punjab whereas the complainant was

present in Ludhiana. As per case of the appellant/complainant the

bank authorities remained negligent in not considering her grievance

as fraud could not have been possible without the connivance of any

bank employee. 13. On perusal of contents of the complaint and also the oral

arguments nothing has been pointed out/disclosed as to who was the

employee of the bank who had played fraud upon the complainant.

Simply by alleging certain allegations of fraud by any of the official of

the bank are not sufficient to prove a case. In case there are

allegations of fraud on the part of the complainant, the onus is upon

the complainant to prove not only on the basis of oral averments but 7 First Appeal No.545 of 2022 also the evidence is required to be produced, if any. Admittedly no

such evidence has been placed on record before the District

Commission as well as before this Commission. Even it has not been

mentioned in the grounds of appeal and the arguments that why there

was no response of SMS which came on her mobile as the mobile

number of the complainant was connected with the bank account.

The complainant is required to stand on her feet to prove her case

but nothing has been brought on record neither by way of oral

arguments not by any documentary evidence. Simple averments are

not sufficient to prove the allegations of fraud on the part of bank. The

same is required to be proved by evidence oral or documentary. The

District Commission has considered the averments of the complaint

as well as arguments and thereafter the complaint was dismissed on

the ground that allegations of fraud were there in the complaint and

the same could not be tried in a summary trial before the Consumer

Fora as detailed evidence was required to prove the allegation of

fraud. 14. In view of facts and reasons as mentioned above we do

not find any force in the arguments raised by authorized

representative Mr. G.S. Gill before this Commission and the

accordingly appeal being devoid of any merit is hereby

dismissed being disputed question of facts. The

appellant/complainant is at liberty to avail appropriate remedy

before the Civil Court. The order passed by the District

Commission is upheld. First Appeal No.545 of 2022 15. Since the main case is decided, the pending applications,

if any, are also disposed of. (JUSTICE DAYA CHAUDHARY)
 PRESIDENT

November 25, 2022
(MM)