1 This is an appeal preferred by the Iffco Tokio General Insurance

Company Ltd. against the judgment and award dated 21 st May 2013

passed by the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal (for short the

"M.A.C.T."), Thane in Motor Accident Claim Application No. 965 of

2009. 2 The brief facts are that in the intervening night of 24 th October

2008 to 25th October 2008, at about 00.35 hours, one Namdeo

Yashwant Vishe was traveling as a pillion rider on motorcycle bearing

no.MH-04-CN-9565 and one Mr.Mahesh Choudhary was riding the said

motorcycle, when the motorcycle having reached opposite Bunty dhaba

at Borpada village situate on Bhiwandi Wada road being driven at high

and excessive speed by the rider, suddenly applied brakes, as a result of

which the motorcycle skidded and Mr. Namdeo Yashwant Vishe, the

pillion rider, fell down on the road. In the said accident he sustained

injuries all over his body; he was taken to IGM Hospital at Bhiwandi for

medical treatment, however, he succumbed to the injuries. The subject

motorcycle was owned by one Mr. Mangesh Yashwant Shelar and the

motorcycle was fully insured by the appellant-Insurance company. An avk 2/11 FA-50-2019.doc

offence of rash and negligent driving was registered against the rider of

the motorcycle with the Bhiwandi Taluka Police Station.

3 The widow, minor son and the mother of the the deceased filed

an application for getting compensation under Section 166 of the

Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (for short the "M. V. Act") on account of the

vehicular accidental death of Namdeo Yashwant Vishe, the pillion rider

of the subject motorcycle. The claim was made against the owner of the

vehicle Mr. Mangesh Yeshwant Shelar and the appellant-Insurance

company. The M.A.C.T. granted compensation to the claimants holding

that the appellant was liable to pay an amount of Rs.7,25,136.00 under

the provisions of Section 166 of the M. V. Act. 4 It is the case of the appellant - Insurance company that although

the motorcycle was validly insured with the Insurance company on the

day of the accident, however, there has been a breach of the condition

of the insurance policy, inasmuch as the rider of the motorcycle namely

Mahesh Gajanan Chowdhary was not holding valid driving license at

the time of the accident. That, he was in possession of a driving license

qualified to drive a light motor vehicle, non-transport and heavy goods avk 3/11 FA-50-2019.doc

vehicle and not two wheeler motorcycle which is altogether a different

class/category of vehicle. It is, therefore, submitted that the Insurance

company was not liable to pay any compensation to the claimants or

applicants as the insured/driver had committed breach of an important

term and condition of the policy. 5 The respondents, though served, are not present nor represented

today. 6 Mr. Nikhil Mehta, learned counsel for the appellant - Insurance

company, would submit that although the Insurance company has

preferred this appeal against the order of the Tribunal, primarily on the

ground that the rider of the motorcycle was not holding a valid driving

license at the time of the accident, which was a breach of the terms of

the policy, he would submit in all fairness that after the decision of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of National Insurance Company Ltd.

vs. Swaran Singh and Others1 , the insurer had to indemnify the

compensation amount payable to the third party and the Insurance

company may recover the same from the insured. Learned counsel

would submit that the doctrine of pay and recover was considered by

1 (2004) 3 SCC 297 avk 4/11 FA-50-2019.doc

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of National Insurance Company

Ltd. vs. Swaran Singh and Others (supra) wherein the Supreme Court

examined the liability of the Insurance company in cases of breach of

policy conditions, due to disqualifications of the driver or invalid

driving license of the driver and held that in case of third party risks,

the insurer has to indemnify the compensation amount to the third

party and the Insurance company may recover the same from the

insured. Learned counsel further submits that as per the decision in National Insurance Company Ltd. vs. Swaran Singh and Others (supra),

the onus is always upon the Insurance company to prove that the driver

had no valid driving license, and that, there was breach of policy

conditions. He further submits that where the driver did not possess a

valid driving license and there are breach of policy conditions, pay and

recover can be ordered in case of third party risks. Learned counsel

would therefore submits that this Court pass appropriate orders in the

light of the decision in National Insurance Company Ltd. vs. Swaran

Singh and Others (supra). He would submit that the decision in National Insurance Company Ltd. vs. Swaran Singh and Others (supra)

has also been relied upon in the case of Shamanna and Another vs. The

Divisional Manager , The Oriental Insurance Company Ltd. and Others 2.
2 Judgment of Supreme Court in Civil Appeal No.8144/2018 (arising out of SLP(C)
 No.26955/2017 dated 8th August 2018 avk 5/11 FA-50-2019.doc

7 There is no dispute on the facts in this case. The Apex Court in

the case of National Insurance Company Ltd. vs. Swaran Singh and

Others (supra) holding that in case of third party risks, the insurer has

to indemnify the compensation amount to the third party and the

Insurance company may recover the same from the insured, has

elaborated considering the insurer's contractual liability as well as

statutory liability vis-a-vis the claims of third party and issued detailed

guidelines as to how and in what circumstances pay and recover can be

ordered. Paragraph 110 of the decision of the Supreme Court is set out

as under : The decision rendered on the claims and disputes inter se
 between the insurer and insured in the course of adjudication
 of claim for compensation by the claimants and the award
 made thereon is enforceable and executable in the same
 manner as provided in Section 174 of the Act for
 enforcement and execution of the award in favour of the
 claimants. (x) Where on adjudication of the claim under the Act the
 Tribunal arrives at a conclusion that the insurer has
 satisfactorily proved its defence in accordance with the
 provisions of Section 149(2) read with sub-section (7), as
 interpreted by this Court above, the Tribunal can direct that
 the insurer is liable to be reimbursed by the insured for the
 compensation and other amounts which it has been
 compelled to pay to the third party under the award of the
 Tribunal. Such determination of claim by the Tribunal will be
 enforceable and the money found due to the insurer from the
 insured will be recoverable on a certificate issued by the
 Tribunal to the Collector in the same manner under Section
 174 of the Act as arrears of land revenue. The certificate will
 be issued for the recovery as arrears of land revenue only if,
 as required by sub-section (3) of Section 168 of the Act the
 insured fails to deposit the amount awarded in favour of the
 insurer within thirty days from the date of announcement of
 the award by the Tribunal. (xi) The provisions contained in sub-section (4) with the
 proviso there under and sub-section (5) which are intended
 to cover specified contingencies mentioned therein to enable
 the insurer to recover the amount paid under the contract of
 insurance on behalf of the insured can be taken recourse to avk 8/11 FA-50-2019.doc

 by the Tribunal and be extended to claims and defences of
 the insurer against the insured by relegating them to the
 remedy before regular court in cases where on given facts
 and circumstances adjudication of their claims inter se might
 delay the adjudication of the claims of the victims." (emphasis supplied)

8 As can be seen in from (ii) above that an insurer is entitled to

raise a defence in a claim petition filed under Section 163-A or Section

166 of the M. V. Act, as in this case inter alia in terms of Section 149(2) (a)(ii) of the said Act. Section 149(2)(a)(ii) refers to the

disqualification of the driver on account of invalid driving license being

a breach of the insurance policy conditions. Paragraphs (iii), (iv), (vi), (vii) and (viii) all impose additional obligations on the Insurance

companies, in the event they are desirous of raising the defence of

invalid driving license to avoid the liability. As it appears, the onus is

always upon the Insurance company to prove that the driver had no

valid driving license and that there was a breach of the policy

conditions. When the driver does not possess a valid driving license and

there are breach of policy conditions, pay and recover can be ordered

in case of third party risks. 9 The decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Shamanna and Another vs. The Divisional Manager , The Oriental avk 9/11 FA-50-2019.doc

Insurance Company Ltd. and Others (supra) also re-emphasizes that in

the case of third party risks the insurer has to indemnify the amount

and if so advised, to recover the same from the insured. Paragraphs 7

and 8 are relevant and are usefully quoted as under : 10 In view of the above discussion, I have no hesitation in holding

that this appeal is devoid of any merit and deserves to be dismissed in

view of the law settled by the Apex Court. 11 The appeal is hereby dismissed. No costs. avk 10/11 FA-50-2019.doc

 12 The appellant-Insurance company is at liberty to recover the

 amount from the insured, if so advised, keeping in mind the principles

 and the guidelines laid down by the Apex Court in the case of National

 Insurance Company Ltd. vs. Swaran Singh and Others (supra) and

 other decisions in line with the said case. ARTI
 (ABHAY AHUJA, J.)
VILAS
KHATATE Digitally signed by ARTI VILAS KHATATE Date: 2022.12.22 11:03:37 +0530 avk 11/11