1. Heard Sri Gopal S. Chaturvedi, Senior Advocate assisted by Sri Prashant Vyas, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Sanjay Sharma, learned A.G.A. for the State and have carefully perused the material on record. 2. By way of present application under Section 482 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as the ' Cr.P.C .') the applicant calls in question the order dated 22.9.2018 passed by learned Sessions Judge, Kanpur Nagar in S.T. No.634 of 2014 ( State Vs. Rajkumar Agrawal @ Raju Garg and others , arising out of Case Crime No.211 of 2014 whereby the charges for the offence under Sections 302 , 120B , 149 I.P.C. and 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act and 3/25 Arms Act were framed against the applicant. 3. The brief facts of the case are that on 26.5.2014, respondent no.2, namely, Vishal Gupta lodged a first information report against the applicant, Santosh Kureel and two unknown persons; on the basis of said complaint, Case Crime No.211 of 2014 was registered at Police Station Govind Nagar, District Kanpur Nagar. On completion of the investigation, the Investigating Officer submitted the charge-sheet against all the four accused persons, the case was committed to the Sessions Court and the trial was commenced as S.T. No.634 of 2014. 4. Learned Senior Counsel for the applicant submits that after committal of the charge-sheet, charges for the offence under Sections 302 read with 120B I.P.C . and Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act and Section 3 / 25 Arms Act were framed on 15.6.2016 and trial commenced. The prosecution examined 12 witnesses. He also submits that the role assigned to the applicant is of conspiracy in respect of the murder of the deceased, Prashant Gupta. 5. Learned Senior Advocate further submits that a pistol was recovered on the alleged pointing out of the applicant and the same was sent to the Science & Forensic Laboratory, Lucknow and the report of the Forensic Laboratory does not support the case of the prosecution. 6. Lastly, learned Senior Advocate for the applicant submits that charges have already framed against the applicant on 15.6.2016 and again, the charges were framed on 22.9.2018 without any basis. 7. On the other hand, learned A.G.A. for the State submits that the charges were framed on 15.6.2016. The applicant did not challenge the said order of framing charge. Learned A.G.A. has also pointed out that after recording statement of some prosecution witnesses, the charge has been amended and Section 149 I.P.C. has been added in the charge. He has also pointed out that all the prosecution witnesses have been examined and statement of accused persons under Sections 313 Cr.P.C. has been recorded. 8. I have carefully considered the submissions made by learned counsel for both the parties. 9. Before examining the facts of the present case it would be appropriate to consider the scope of interference of Section 482 of Cr.P.C. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court of India in " Dhanalakshmi v. R. Prasanna Kumar ", (1990) Supp. SCC 686, observed as under: - 10. Further in " Amit Kapoor vs. Ramesh Chander & Anr. ", (2012) 9 SCC 460, Hon'ble Supreme Court of India while dealing with the issue of interference at the stage of charge in a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. observed as under:- 11. While exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. this Court would have ordinarily embarked an enquiry in order to determine whether the evidence in question is reliable or not or whether on a reasonable appreciation of it acquisition would be sustained or not. That is the function of the trial court. It is true that Court should be circumspect and judicious in misusing discretion and should take all relevant facts and circumstances into consideration. Though, the powers under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. are wide, however, such powers require care and caution in its exercise. The interference must be on sound principles and the inherent powers should not be exercised to stifle a legitimate prosecution. The above mentioned judgments clearly reflect that inherent powers while quashing criminal proceedings should be exercised sparingly and with circumspection. The framing of charge is an exercise of jurisdiction by the trial court in terms of Section 228 of Cr.P.C., unless the accused is discharged under Section 227 of Cr.P.C. Once the ingredients of this section with which the accused is charged are established, the Court would be well within its right in presuming that there is a ground to proceed against the accused and frame charge accordingly. The satisfaction of the Court in respect of ingredients of an offence and facts leading to an offence is a sine qua non for exercise of such jurisdiction. This presumption is not a presumption of law as such. 12. At the stage of consideration on charge, the Court is not required to assess, evaluate and weigh the prosecution evidence as it is done at the final stage. It is not open to shift and weigh the evidence as if the Court is conducting a mini trial and charge can be framed on the basis of grave suspicion and the evidential value of the statement recorded during the course of investigation is required to be seen at the time of trial. At this stage the Court is not required to meticulously go into the material placed on record by the prosecution and is only to consider whether prima facie their exists sufficient ground to proceed against the accused. A roving and phishing inquiry is impermissible and it is sufficient if the prosecution is able to show prima facie the commission of offence and the involvement of the charged person. It is immaterial whether the case is based on direct or circumstantial evidence and the Court is only required to see if prima facie there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused. 13. In the instant case, the case was registered on the statement of the respondent no.2 herein (Vishal Gupta), on completion of investigation, charge-sheet for the offence under Sections 302 read with 120B I.P.C . and Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act and Section 3 / 25 Arms Act was framed on 15.6.2016. The applicant pleaded not guilty to the charge and claimed trial, therefore, the prosecution examined the witnesses. After recording statements of some witnesses, learned trial court amended the charge and charge for the offence under Section 302 read with 120B and 149 I.P.C . and Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act and Section 3 / 25 Arms Act were framed vide impugned order dated 22.9.2018. 14. Considering the above legal propositions, it can be said that once a prima facie case is made out, the Court cannot delve into the merits of the case at the stage of framing of charges. I do not find any illegality or infirmity in the impugned order passed by learned trial court. 15. For the reasons stated above, the present application under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. is without any merit, the same is liable to be dismissed and the same is hereby dismissed. (V.P. Vaish, J.) 
 

 
Order Date :- 27.11.2018
 
Vivek Kr.