Vide present suit, the plaintiff has sought recovery of money by way of
decree for a sum of Rs.94,899/- in favour of the plaintiff company and against
the defendant together with pendente lite and future interest @ 24% per annum

CS no. 709/2018 Page no. 1 of 12
 on the decreetal amount from the date of filing of the suit till its realization. PLAINTIFF'S VERSION AS PER PLAINT 2. Brief facts as alleged in the plaint and documents filed by the plaintiff
are that plaintiff is a proprietary firm engaged in the business of information
Technology and System Indicators and is a suppliers of various IT hardware
like servers, firewalls, PC's and laptops. The plaint was instituted by Sh. Jitesh
Dasoar who is the proprietor of the plaintiff concern. 3. It is submitted that the defendant is engaged in the business of health
and wellness and conducts health checkups and provide pathology lab facilities
to its clients. It is the case of the plaintiff that plaintiff used to provide various
goods and services related to IT to defendant from time to time. The plaintiff
supplied a firewall and antivirus software to the defendant company qua which
it raised an invoice dated 07.10.2017 amounting to Rs. 1,44,899/-. It is
submitted that the defendant only paid a sum of Rs. 50,000/- to the plaintiff
and the remaining amount of Rs. 94,899/- is due till date, despite repeated
requests and reminders. The plaintiff issued a legal demand notice dated
31.01.2018 to the defendant. However, the defendant failed to make the
payment of the outstanding amount and therefore, the plaintiff was constrained
to approach this court by way of the present suit for recovery for Rs. 94,899/-
along with future interest. VERSION OF DEFENDANT AS PER WRITTEN STATEMENT 4. Ld. Counsel for the defendant appeared before the court pursuant to
service of summons for settlement of issues. Thereafter, WS was filed by the
CS no. 709/2018 Page no. 2 of 12
 defendant wherein the defendant admitted that they had approached the
plaintiff concern for delivery of certain IT racks which were duly delivered by
them and paid for by the defendant company. Later the defendant required a
firewall system and anti virus to protect its IT infrastructure from cyber threats,
therefore after discussion between the parties, a purchase order for Sonicwall
TZ 400 firewall system and Seqrite security EPS antivirus was raised by the
plaintiff. It was further submitted that upon the request of plaintiff, advance
amount of Rs. 50000/- was also paid by the defendant to the plaintiff. It is
further submitted that though the defendant duly installed the above said
software, during the installation, the employees/agents/engineers employed by
the plaintiff for the installation, left various access ports open due to which the
server of the defendant was left open for pubic access which lead to hacking of
their confidential data and several attempts to steal banking passwords of the
defendant. It is further submitted that due to the defective installation of the
firewall and antivirus by the plaintiff, the employees of the defendant company
were also subjected to multiple phishing attempts. Thereafter, defendant
requested the plaintiff to remove the installation, take back its device and
refund the amount paid. However, the defendant failed to take any corrective
action whatsoever. It was further submitted that owing to the negligent and
malicious conduct of the plaintiff, defendant had to suffer grave monetary loss
and thus it is not liability to pay the amount so sought by the plaintiff by way
of the present suit. REPLICATION FILED 5. The plaintiff filed replication wherein it denied the contentions raised

CS no. 709/2018 Page no. 3 of 12
 by the defendant in the Written Statement and reiterated the submissions made
in the plaint. IDENTIFICATION OF ISSUES 6. In view of the contending submissions made in the pleadings filed by
parties, following issues were framed vide order dated 10.01.2019: - EVIDENCE 7. In order to prove its case, proprietor of the plaintiff Sh. Jitesh Dasoar
examined himself as PW-1 who tendered his evidence by way of affidavit Ex.
PW-1/A and relied upon the following documents:- 8. PW-1 was duly cross examined by the defendant. No other witness
was summoned or sought to be examined by the plaintiff. Accordingly PE was

CS no. 709/2018 Page no. 4 of 12
 closed vide order dated 06.01.2020. 9. Matter was then fixed for DE. In order to prove its case, defendant
examined two witnesses. 10. The defendant company firstly examined Col. Saripalli Dhanraj as
DW-1 who tendered his evidence by way of affidavit Ex. DW-1/A and relied
upon the following documents:- 11. Thereafter, the AR of the defendant was substituted with one Sh.
Amit Singh who relied upon the documents tendered in evidence by DW-1 and
additionally tendered in his evidence fresh evidence by way of affidavit Ex.
DW-1/A2 and a board resolution in his favour Ex. DW-1/7. He was duly cross
examined by the plaintiff. CS no. 709/2018 Page no. 5 of 12 12. The defendant also examined one Sh. Prashant Kumar as DW-2 who
tendered in his evidence by way of affidavit Ex. DW-2/A. He was also cross
examined by the plaintiff. 13. No other witness was examined by the defendant in support of their
case. Hence, DE was closed on 30.05.2023 and matter was fixed for final
arguments. 14. Final arguments heard on behalf of both parties. APPRAISAL & FINDINGS 15. I have perused the record in light of the evidence adduced and
arguments lead. I shall now provide my findings issue wise. Issue no. 1: (i) Whether plaintiff is entitled to decree for recovery for a
sum of Rs. 94,899/-? OPP. Issue no. 2: (ii)Whether the plaintiff is entitled to interest? If yes at what
rate? OPP. 16. Both these issues are being discussed together since they require
appreciation of common facts and evidence. The onus to prove these issues
lied upon the plaintiff. Therefore, it is for the plaintiff to establish that the
defendant company is liable to pay Rs. 94,899/- to it along with interest. 17. It is admitted by the defendant that the plaintiff concern was
approached to provide and install upon the servers of the defendant company a
firewall and an antivirus software. However, the claim of the plaintiff is denied

CS no. 709/2018 Page no. 6 of 12
 by the defendant on two grounds i.e. firstly, that the product so installed by the
plaintiff was not what was sought by them and secondly that the installation as
done by the plaintiff was defective which led to hacking of the servers of the
defendant company leading to data loss. 18. I have perused the evidence led by the defendant. It has been
suggested by ld. Counsel for the defendant during the cross examination of
PW-1 that the defendant company had specifically sought installation of
McAfee antivirus software from the plaintiff and the plaintiff instead of
supplying the same, intentionally misled the defendant company into
purchasing Seqrite antivirus, being well aware that the same was inferior in
quality, with the motive to earn better profit margins. However, no evidence in
this regard has been led by the defendant. Both the defence witnesses DW-1
and DW-2 have not placed in their respective evidence any communication
between the parties whereby the defendant company had specifically sought
purchase and installation of McAfee antivirus which was refused by the
plaintiff and that the plaintiff instead suggested Seqrite antivirus. 19. Further, though the defendant has cross examined witness PW-1
regarding an email dated 05.10.2017 which is part of Ex PW-1/5(Colly) to
suggest that it was the defendant who had suggested Seqrite EPS instead of
McAfee antivirus, the counsel has intentionally ignored the communication
made between the parties thereafter, whereby the defendant company had
agreed for the purchase order in regards to installation of Seqrite and Sonic
Wall TZ 400. Therefore, it cannot be said that the defendant company was not

CS no. 709/2018 Page no. 7 of 12
 aware about the software which was finally negotiated by the parties to be
installed by the plaintiff before its installation. 20. Now even if it is assumed that it was the defendant who introduced
the idea and pressed for installation of Seqrite EPS instead of McAfee
antivirus, there is nothing on record to indicate that the defendant eventually
agreed for installation of Seqrite EPS non-voluntarily or owing to some
coercion or threat. Upon being suggested an alternate software than what was
sought for, it was for the buyer i.e. the defendant company in the present case
to study the viability of the same before agreeing upon the purchase order and
allowing installation. Once the purchase/ installation of a particular
software/product has been agreed between the parties and undertaken by the
plaintiff company, the defendant after such installation cannot be allowed to
retract its stand to submit that the product so installed is not the one which was
originally sought by them. Therefore, submission of defendant company in this
regard does not seem meritorious. 21. Now in regards to the second defence raised by the defendant
company that upon installation of Seqrite EPS instead of McAfee antivirus
upon the servers of defendant company, IT infrastructure of the defendant
company became vulnerable to cyber attacks and led to data theft and therefore
the defendant company is not liable to pay the amount so sought by the
plaintiff, this court is again of the view that the evidence on record does not
support the version as elucidated by the defendant. CS no. 709/2018 Page no. 8 of 12 22. DW1 in his evidence has submitted that the plaintiff subsequent to
delivery of firewall box requested the defendant to provide the activation key,
access code and passwords of the server for the purpose of installation.
However, after the installation of the said firewall, the servers of the defendant
and account ID got hacked and confidential data including the codes and data
base of the defendant were stolen. DW-1 further submitted that the continuous
acts of hacking and phishing upon the server of the defendant made it apparent
that there was some default in the system installed by the plaintiff or that he
had acted maliciously to hack the systems of the defendant. He further
submitted that the plaintiff was duly informed about the cyber attacks and was
requested to take back its device and return the money paid. However, the
plaintiff failed to take any corrective measures and refused to take back the
device installed. 23. Perusal of evidence on record reveals that there is no email or any
other documentary communication placed on record by the defendant in
support of the submissions made by DW-1. Instead, DW-1 has himself
submitted in his cross-examination recorded on 22.04.2022 that the plaintiff
company did not issue any legal notice to the plaintiff regarding the
shortcoming in their supplies and services. He further admitted as correct that
no case has been filed by the defendant against the plaintiff. He further
submitted that there is no document wherein the defendant company requested
the plaintiff to take back their software and return the money. It is also
admitted by DW-1 in his examination that the defendant company did not file
any complaint against the plaintiff with the statutory authorities. CS no. 709/2018 Page no. 9 of 12 24. Similarly, witness DW-2 who also deposed on the lines of DW-1, in
his cross-examination recorded on 30.05.2023, has also admitted that the
defendant company has not written any mail etc to the plaintiff complaining
against the faulty firewall. It is further admitted that the defendant company
did not reply to the legal notice Ex. PW-1/4 sent by the plaintiff seeking
clearing of outstanding dues. It is also apparent from the record that the
defendant company neither filed any Civil case for damages against the
plaintiff nor filed any counter claim in the present suit. 25. Thus, clearly there is nothing on record to indicate that the defendant
ever communicated the alleged grievances purported to be established as
defence to the plaintiff. The conduct of the defendant company does not
resonate with what can be expected of a rational, prudent human
being/organization, raising a serious doubt upon the veracity of their defence. 26. Further while DW-1 in his evidence has tendered an audit report
which is Mark DW-1/6 with the submission that upon frequent cyber attacks
on the servers of the defendant company, a committee was instituted to
investigate the matter which established that the attacks are owing to faulty
installation of firewall done by the plaintiff who intentionally left ports open
for accessing the firewall in public or any public IPs, the said report (Mark
DW-1/6) being not accompanied by any certificate under section 65B of Indian
evidence is not admissible in evidence. 27. Even otherwise, for reasons best known to the defendant company,

CS no. 709/2018 Page no. 10 of 12
 the said report Mark DW-1/6 was neither supplied to or communicated to the
plaintiff company prior to the examination of DW-1 nor was put to the witness
PW1 during his cross-examination to allow him to challenge or explain the
adverse observations made therein. Further, while DW-2 is one of the members
of the committee who investigated and prepared the said report, he has neither
relied upon the said report in his evidence nor has he explained his findings
and reasons thereof. 28. Additionally, since the document (Mark DW-1/6) is internal to the
defendant company, it would not be unfair to assume that the report may be
biased towards the interest of its author i.e. the defendant company and thus
the report cannot be relied upon as is. On the contrary the report Mark DW-1/6
seems more like an afterthought by the defendant company, envisaged by it
after it had duly availed the services of the plaintiff, simply to avoid their due
liability. 29. Accordingly, in view of the discussion above, issue no. 1 and 2 are
decided in favour of the plaintiff. Relief 30. In view of the discussion above, suit of the plaintiff is decreed as
follows: 31. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 32. Since nothing else survives, file be consigned to Record Room after
due compliance.