1. This revision application is against an order of the District Judge of Broach, holding that an appeal before him was not barred by res judicata. A preliminary objection was taken by the learned counsel for the opponents, and he contends that when the lower Court has decided a question of res judicata, no revision lies, and he relies on Amir Hassan Khan v. Sheo Baksh Singh, ILR 11 Cal 6 (PC). 2. In ILR 11 Cal 6 (PC), their Lordships of the Privy Council were dealing with the application of Sections 13 and 43 of Act X of 1877 and also Section 622 of Act X of 1877 as amended by Section 92 of Act XII of 1879. In the case before their Lordships certain properties were mortgaged amongst 8 co-sharers and the right to redeem was afterwards contested by them in an application to the District Court. Subsequently, a suit was filed under Act XXXII of 1871, namely the Oudh Civil Court Act, in the Court of Extra Assistant Commissioner by one Raja Amir Hassan Khan, who sued one Sheo Baksh to give possession on redemption from mortgage of a three-fourths share in a taluq named Khanpur, comprising six villages in Sitapur, on payment of the mortgage debt. A decree in favour of the plaintiff was passed by the Extra Assistant Commissioner which was confirmed by the District Judge of Sitapur. According to Section 21 of Act XIII of 1879, there was no appeal from the decision of the District Judge of Sitapur to the Judicial Commissioner, but the Judicial Commissioner purported to exercise revisional jurisdiction. Their Lordships of the Privy Council held that the Judges of the lower Courts had perfect jurisdiction to decide the question which was before them. Their Lordships also observed that whether they decided it rightly or wrongly, they had jurisdiction to decide the case; and even if they decided wrongly, they did not exercise their jurisdiction, illegally or with material irregularity. Their lordships of the Privy Council therefore allowed the appeal before them and reversed the judgment of the Judicial commissioner. It appears from the report, that the suit raises questions as to whether it was barred under Section 13 and 43 of Act X of 1877 and whether the plaintiff was entitled to reimburse the mortgagor and whether it was competent to claim to redeem the mortgaged property. 3. The question involved in the instant case is one of res judicata. Section 11 of the Civil Procedure code, which deals with the question of res judicata, reads as follows: 4. Section 115, civil Procedure Code, which deals with revisional jurisdiction reads as follows: The High Court can exercise revisional jurisdiction in the above three cases mentioned in Section 115, C.P. Code. (5) When a Court deals with the matter, it may do any of the following kinds of things
 

(1) It may refuse to exercise jurisdiction by refusing to hear the matter or try the matter. (2) It may exercise jurisdiction and proceed to hear the matter or try the matter. (3) Before doing either (1) or (2), it might decide a jurisdictional fact and having decided it, may pass an order in terms of (1) or (2) above. (4) It might commit an error of procedure while proceeding with the trial or hearing of the matter. Such an error may be material or immaterial. (5) It may decide the controversy between the parties, which may involve questions of law as well as facts. (6) Any error committed by it on the first three points above-mentioned would bring the case within the first two Clause (a) and (b) of Section 115, because that would be a case of exercising jurisdiction not vested in the Court of law or failing to exercise jurisdiction vested. 7. As regards the 4th point, mentioned above, namely, error of procedure while exercising jurisdiction, if such errors of procedure are committed illegally or with material irregularity, then Clause (c) of Section 115, C.P. Code, would be attracted. To act in the exercise of jurisdiction illegally would be acting in contravention of any statute or any statutory rule. Whether a Court has acted with material irregularity while acting in the exercise of jurisdiction, is always a question of fact. But Clause (c) of Section 115, C. P. Code would apply only when the Court exercises jurisdiction vested in it by law and while acting in such exercise acts illegally or with material irregularity. 8. If the Court exercises jurisdiction which is vested in it by law and in the exercise of its jurisdiction decides the controversy between the parties, which may involve questions of fact and also questions of law, Section 115, C. P. Code would not be attracted whether the decision is right or wrong. In other words, a decision on the issues arising in the suit whether they be issues of fact or of law, would
not attract Section 115, C. P. Code, whether the decision is right or wrong. In a case, where the revision application challenges a decision on an issue of fact or an issue ot law, which arises in the controversy between the parties, as erroneous the High Court has no revisional jurisdiction. 9. The question whether a particular fact is jurisdictional or not would depend on the section of the Act giving or taking away jurisdiction. Section 11 of the Civil Procedure Code has already been quoted above. If the suit which has been instituted is one in which the matter directly or substantially has been in issue in a former suit between the same parties etc., then according to Section 11, C. P. Code, the Court shall not try any such suit. Section 9 C. P. Code, reads as follows: It uses the expression "jurisdiction to try all suits". That means that Section 9, C. P. Code gives jurisdiction to a Civil Court to try a suit. In certain circumstances, Section 11 takes away that jurisdiction. Therefore, errors of jurisdiction would mean errors which would refer to jurisdiction to try a suit and not merely an issue in any suit. Under Section 11, C. P. Code, a Court may be prevented from trying a suit. It can also be prevented from trying an issue in a suit without being prevented from trying that suit. Where on the application of Section 11 to the facts of the case, the Court is prevented from trying a suit that would be a case of not exercising jurisdiction within the meaning of Section 9, C. P. Code, and if it does so wrongly, Clause (b) of Section 115, C. P. Code would apply. If the Court tries a suit notwithstanding that the whole suit is barred by res judicata as provided in Section 11, C. P. Code, Clause (a) of Section 115, C. P. Code would be attracted, because that would be a case of exercising a jurisdiction not vested in it by raw. 10. But if under Section 11, C. P. Code, the Court has jurisdiction to try the suit but has no jurisdiction to try any issue involved in the suit then it would not be a case of exercising jurisdiction or failure to exercise jurisdiction within the meaning of Sections 9 and 115, Civil Procedure Code. 11. Therefore, in my humble opinion, if the Court gives a finding that the trial of one of the issues involved in the suit is barred by res judicate and proceeds to try the other issues, it is not a case of exercising jurisdiction nor a case of failure to exercise jurisdiction within the meaning of Section 9, C. P. Code or Section 115, C. P. Code, and Clauses (a) and (b) of Section 115 would not be attracted in such a case. To sum up, in my humble opinion, the High Court has no revisional jurisdiction under Clauses (a) or (b) of Section 115 C.P.C. in certain cases of res judicata, but it has jurisdiction in certain cases of res judicata, for example, when the decision of the lower Court is that the whole suit is barred by res judicata. But when the decision of the lower Court is that only one of the issues involved is barred by res judicata, then the High Court has no revisional jurisdiction under Clauses (a) or (b) of Section 115 C. P. Code and whether Clauses (c) of Section 115 would apply would depend on the facts of each case. 12-13. The learned counsel for the opponents has referred to Joy Chand Lal v. Kamalaksha Chaudhury, 51 Bom

LR 964: (AIR 1949 PC 239). This is a decision of their Lordships of the Privy Council. In this case, their Lordships of the Privy Council have observed as follows: Their Lordships were dealing with the question whether a loan was commercial or not and if the loan was not a commercial loan, the lower Court had no jurisdiction to deal with the question. Their Lordships were therefore dealing with a jurisdictional fact. Whether the loan was commercial or not was a jurisdictional fact, and as already observed, Sub-sections (a) and (b) of Section 115 , C. P. Code would apply to such a case. In Chaube Jagdish v. Ganga Prasad , AIR 1959 SC 492, it has been observed as follows: 14. As observed by their Lordships of the Supreme Court, if a subordinate Court had jurisdiction to make the order it made and has not acted in breach of any provision of law or committed any error of procedure which is material and may have affected the ultimate decision, then the High. Court has no power to interfere. But if on the other hand it decides a jurisdictional fact erroneously and thereby assumes jurisdiction not vested in it or deprives itself ot jurisdiction so vested then the power of interference under Section 115 , Civil P. C., becomes operative. 15. In AIR 1953 SC 23, their Lordships of the supreme Court observed that the words "illegally" and "material irregularity" which occur in Clause (c) of Section 115 , C. P. Code, do not cover either errors of fact or law, and they also observed that they did not refer to the decision arrived at but to the manner in which it is reached. Their Lordships further observed that the errors contemplated relate to material defects of procedure and not to errors of either law or fact after the formalities which the law prescribes have been complied with. 16. In the case before their Lordships of the Supreme Court, a main execution application was dismissed after treating an application for time as an adjournment application. The Judge of the subordinate Court corrected his own error and the High Court in the purported exercise of its revisional jurisdiction reversed the order of the subordinate Judge. Their Lordships of the Supreme Court held that the High Court had no jurisdiction to do so as the case did not fall under Clause (c) of Section 115 , Civil Procedure Code. Their Lordships were dealing with Clause (c) of Section 115 , C. P. Code, and the case before their Lordships was not one of jurisdictional fact. Their Lordships of the Supreme Court only laid down the law as regards the scope cf Clause (c) of Section 115 , C. P. Code. 17. Their Lordships of the Supreme Court have, however, declared the law in AIR 1959 SC 492, regarding jurisdictional fact. Their Lordships of the Supreme Court did not consider the Question nor declared the law on the point whether res juidcata is a jurisdictional fact or not. 18. For the reasons already given, in my humble opinion, res judicata would be a jurisdictional fact in some cases but not in others. It would be a jurisdictional fact if the whole suit is held to be or not to be barred by res judicata under Section 11 , C. P. Code, but it would not be a jurisdictional fact, if only the trial of an issue is held to be barred or not barred under Section 11 , C. P. Code. 19. The learned counsel for the opponents also raises another preliminary objection. His contention is that the order in this case is only an interlocutory order and does not amount to a case decided. In this case the order was passed on an application, Ex. 11, which was an application praying that the appeal be dismissed because it was barred by res judicata. I have already held in Shah Shantital Chunilal v. Shah Shantilal Fulchand, Civil Revn . Appln. No. 1223 of 1960 D/- 30-8-1962 : (AIR 1963 Guj 195) that an order passed on such an application would amount to a case decided. The second preliminary objection is, therefore, rejected. 20. Now to turn to the facts of this revision application. Civil Suit No. 162 of 1957 was filed by the wife of one Ranchhod Chhaganbhai and others against the mother of Ranchhod and others. The wife claimed possession and mesne profits of the properties said to be in possession of the mother. She put her claim on the ground that after the death of her husband her husband's property devolved on her and she had adopted opponent No. 2 as her son. 21. Second suit No. 176 of 1957 was by themother of Ranchhod. It was a suit for partition of her half share in the property of Ranchhod, According to her, there was already a partition of her half share and she was in possession thereof. She prayed that the Court should confirm the partition and in the alternative the Court should make a fresh partition. The mother also prayed for a declaration that the alleged adoption by the wife of Ranchhod was illegal and ineffective with respect to her half share, She had made a gift of the property in favour of plaintiff No. 2 in Suit No. 176 of 195/. 22. By consent of parties, evidence led in one of the suits namely Suit No. 162/57 was treated as evidence in Suit No. 176 of 1957. The Court passed a common judgment in Suit No. 162/57 and kept a copy of that judgment in the record of Suit No. 176 of 1957. 23 Suit No. 162/57 was dismissed. Suit No. 176/-57 was partly dismissed and partly decreed. The declaration sought for was granted. The Court passed the following decree in Suit No. 162/57 :-- 2- oknhuks ckdhuks nkoks j
djokeka vkos Ns- 3- i{kdkjks, iksrkuks [kpZ iksrs
Hkksxooks- 24. The plaintiffs in Suit No. 162/57 preferred an appeal, but they did not prefer an appeal from the decision in Suit No. 176/57. It is on this ground that the contention was urged that the appeal against the decree in Suit No. 162/57 was barred by principles of res judicata under Section 11 , Civil Procedure Code. The learned appellate Judge decided that there was no bar of res judicata and this finding is now challenged in revision. 25. It is, however, contended that the decision in Suit No. 176/57 has become final and clear by reason of the fact that no appeal has been filed against such judgment and that an appeal has, however, been filed against the decision in Suit No. 162/57, which is still pending. It is, therefore, contended that the decision in Suit No. 176/57 has become final and that therefore that decision amounts to res judicata in proceedings in appeal against the judgment in Suit No. 162/57. 26. It is contended by the learned counsel for the opponents that Section 11 , Civil Procedure Code, does not apply to appeals and ha relies on Mt. Lachhmi v. Mt. Bhulli, AIR 1927 Lah 289 and the fact that the judgment has been referred to with approval by their Lordships of the Supreme Court in Narhari v. Shanker, AIR 1953 SC 419. In AIR 1927 Lah 289, the following observations have been made : -- It may be that if Section 11 , C. P. Code does not apply to appeals, the principle of res judicata contained in that section might apply as a general principle because Section 11 , C. P. Code is not exhaustive as decided by their Lordships of the Privy Council, in Hook G. H. v. Administrator General of Bengal, ILR 48 Cal 499 : (AIR 1921 PC 11). 27. We have to remember that in Section 11 , C. P.

Code, the words "such Court" have been used, and explanations I and II, to that section read as follows :-- The view that the principle of res judicata applies to appeals might lead to anomaly and difficulties. For Instance, if there are two suits, namely Suit No. 37/54 and Suit No. 38/54, and if the Suit No. 37/54 is decided earlier and if the other conditions of Section 11 , C. P. Code are satisfied, the decision in Suit No. 37/54 would be res judicata in Suit No. 38/54. If Suit No. 37/54 and Suit No. 38/54 are decided on the 7th and 8th December of the same year, but an appeal is filed against the judgment in Suit No. 38 of 1954 on 9th January and an appeal is filed against the judgment in Suit No. 37 of 1954 on the 10th January, that might lead to anomalies and difficulties. In this connection, we must remember the provisions of Sections 107 , 108 and 141 of the Civil Procedure Code. Section 107 , C. P. Code, reads as follows : Section 108 , C. P. Code, reads as follows : -- The learned counsel for the applicants also relies on Zaharia v. Debi, ILR 33 All 51 (FB), and the following observations in the said case : -- It has been further observed as under: 30. But it is submitted with great respect that there cannot be two judgments in two suits on a matter which is directly and substantially in issue, in both the suits provided the conditions of Section 11 , C. P. Code are satisfied, because immediately the decision is given in one suit or such a point, it would become res judicata in the other suit and the same point cannot be tried and decided in the second suit by reason of Section 11 . There can of course be appeals in respect of matters which are not directly and substantially in issue in both the suits and the principle of res judicata can never apply to such a case. But the question of applying the principle of res judicata can arise only when the two suits or the two appeals, as the case may be, involve matters which are directly and substantially in issue and which are common. If they do, there cannot be two decisions by trial on that matter in the two suits in view of the provisions of Section 11 , C. P. Code. The question
whether the principle of res judicata applies to appeals cannot therefore arise in view of the provisions of Section 11 , Civil Procedure Code. It is only in the appeal arising out of the former suit that the matter can be said to be heard and finally decided so as to attract Section 11 , C. P. Code. In the 'subsequent suit' and in the appeal thereon the matter cannot be said to be heard and finally decided. In view of Section 11 , C. P. Code, it cannot be heard and finally decided in the subsequent suit or appeal. 31. I have already given reasons for my view that the High Court cannot interfere under Section 115(a) or (b). Civil Procedure Code, in cases where the res judicata refers only to an issue but the High Court can interfere where the res judicata refers to the res judicata of the suit as a whole. I have already expressed the view that in such a case the High Court can interfere only if the ease falls under Section 115(c) , Civil Procedure Code. The question whether erroneously holding that the trial of an issue is barred by res judicata or not would amount to a material irregularity or not, within the meaning of Clause (c) of Section 115 , Civil Procedure Code, would depend on the facts of each case. In the instant case, there can be no doubt that even if the res judicata was with reference to the trial of only an issue, any error would amount to a material irregularity, and the High Court can interfere under Clause (c) of Section 115 , Civil procedure Code. Section 11 of the Civil Procedure Code reads as follows: The question, therefore, is whether a matter directly and substantially in issue in Suit No. 176/57 has been directly and substantially in issue in a former suit between the same parties, namely, Suit No. 162/57. It is not disputed that the parties are the same. The matter directly and substantially in issue in Suit No. 162/57 is the right of Bai Suraj, wife of Ranchhod to possession of property referred to in the plaint. The matter substantially and directly in issue in Suit No. 176/57 is different. That is a suit filed by Chanchal, the mother of Ranchhod, for a declaration. According to Bai Chanchal she is already in possession of the property. She did not file the suit for possession of the property which is not In her possession. But she wanted to get her possession confirmed and for this purpose wanted a declaration that the adoption by Suraj was illegal and that the adoption was ineffective with regard to the property in her possession. Therefore, the matter directly and substantially in issue in the two suits are entirely different, and in such a case no question of res judicata can arise. It is true that in the second suit the Court has given a declaration that the adoption is illegal and ineffective with reference to the property in possession of Bai Chanchal. But this is a declaration. The adoption is not directly and substantially in issue in the first suit, except as regards plaintiff No. 2 in Suit No. 162 of 1957. So far as plaintiff No. 1 is concerned, she did not claim under the adoption because she is the widow of Ranchhod. 32. The learned counsel for the applicants relies on ILR 33 All 51. But the learned counsel for the opponents relies on Ram Surat v. Ram Murat, (S ) AIR 1955 All 543 and AIR 1953 SC 419. The learned counsel for the applicants

also relies on Badri Narayan v. Kamdeo Prasad , AIR 1962 SC 338. 33. It is urged by the learned counsel for the applicants that in Suit No. 176/57, a declaration has been given that the adoption is ineffective with respect to the property in possession of Bai Chanchal and that therefore this finding against which no appeal has been filed becomes res judicata with regard to the same question in suit No. 162 of 1957 and in the appeal filed from the decree in that suit. 34. In order to apply the principle contained in Section 11 , Civil Procedure Code, there must be a suit and a former suit between the same parties or between the parties under whom they or any of them claim litigating under the same title, and the former suit must have been heard and finally decided by a Court competent to try the second suit or the matter directly and substantially in issue in the suit must also have been directly and substantially in issue in a former suit. 35. Here we have two suits, one suit No. 162/57 and the other suit No. 176/57. Explanation 1 to Section 11 , Civil Procedure Code, provides thus: Now, in this case both the suits were heard together and decided by a common judgment. A copy of the judgment in suit No. 162/57 was kept in the record of suit No. 176/57. 36. The question arises in such a case whether suit No. 162/57 is a former suit or suit No. 176/57 is a former suit. The learned counsel for the opponents relies on AIR 1927 Lah 289, and contends that this case has been approved by their Lordships of the Supreme Court, in AIR 1953 SC 419. In this case their Lordships of the Supreme Court observed as follows: 37. Their Lordships merely approved one or two observations of the learned Judge Tek Chand, J, but did not approve of all the observations of Tek Chand J, contained in AIR 1927 Lah 289. It is therefore, wrong to treat the judgment of their Lordships of the Supreme Court as approving every part of the reasoning of Tek Chand J, in AIR 1927 Lah 289, and to treat every observation in A1H 1927 Lah 289, as binding on all Courts. 38. If we turn to the Lahore case, we find that in that case two suits were disposed of by a single judgment but a separate decree was drawn up in each suit. But in the instant case there are two judgments and two decrees. The observation that estoppel of res judicata applies only when there is a judgment and not when there is a decree, therefore, is not material to the instant case, because we have two judgments and two decrees, which was not the case in the Lahore case. 39. Explanation 1 to Section 11 ; Civil Procedure Code, provides as under: In his judgment in Civil Suit No. 176 of 1957, the learned Judge has observed as follows: 40. In para 2 of the judgment the learned Judge observed that the rest of the plaintiffs' suit is dismissed, and in para 3 of the judgment he ordered that the parties should bear their own costs. In the common judgment which was given in Suit No. 162/57, he passed an order regarding the costs in Suit No. 176/57, but he passed no order regarding Suit No. 162/57. It is therefore clear that he decided Suit No. 162 of 1957 earlier, albeit on the same date. The reasons for deciding Suit No. 176/57 are contained In the judgment in Suit No. 162/57. The matters relating to the common issues were heard and finally decided only in Suit No. 162/57. They were not heard in Suit No. 176/57. In view of Section 11 , C. P. Code they can be heard and finally decided only in one suit. The decision on those matters in Suit No. 176/57 is not alter hearing the matters. In view of Section 11 , C. P. Code the decision in Suit No. 162/57 has to be followed in Suit No. 176/57. It is not a decision so as to attract Section 11 , C. P. Code. Even it there is no appeal against the judgment in Suit No. 176/57 Section 11 C. P. Code is not attracted because there is no decision in Suit No. 176/57 after hearing. Only some of the Issues are common to both the suits. So far as the decision on the common issues goes, there is no question of the principle of res judicata. As regards the appeal against the judgment in Suit No. 162/57 as it involves certain questions which are not common, it can never be barred by res judicata. 41. The learned counsel for the appellants, however, relies on AIR 1962 SC 338 but this case refers to an election petition and their Lordships were dealing with the question of general res judicata and their Lordships did not declare the law on any point contained in Section 11 , Civil P. C. Therefore, it is not necessary to consider this ruling. 42. The learned counsel for the opponents relies on U.P. State v. Mohd. Nooh , 1958 SCJ 242 : AIR 1958 SC 86 in support of his contention that in the circumstances the decision of the trial Court is final, even though one appeal is filed against that decision. The contention of the learned counsel for the opponents is that Suit No. 162/57 has been decided earlier and by reason of the expression "such Court" in Section 11 , C. P. Code, only the decision in Suit No. 162/57 can operate as res judicata in Suit No. 176/57 and not the decision of an appellate Court. The learned counsel relies on the following observations of their Lordships in AIR 1958 SC 86 at p. 95 : -- 43. The question of merger of one of the decisions does not arise in a case to which Section 11 C. P. C. applies, because in such a case there can be only one original decision after trial. 44 The learned counsel for the applicants relies on Annamalay v. Thornhill, AIR 1931 PC 263, where their Lordships of the Privy Council have observed as follows : Their Lordships of the Privy Council were dealing with an entirely different question. Their, Lordships were dealing with the question whether the fact that there had not been an appeal against a decision in one suit operates as res judicata to hearing of an appeal against the Judgment in another suit, if other requirements of Section 11 , C. P. Code are satisfied. 45. The learned counsel for the applicants contends that unless the principle of res judicata applies in the instant case, it would lead to startling results, namely that a party can file one appeal against the judgment of one suit and that without appealing from the judgment in the second suit and praying that the decree in the second suit should be set aside, he can indirectly get the same benefit by appealing in one of the suits. But, these difficulties will not arise, if we properly understand the provisions of Section 11 , Civil Procedure Code. If the matter directly and substantially in issue in both the suits has been decided in one suit there cannot be a second decision by trial on tne same point, in the second suit. 46. For the above reasons, I hold that the appeal against the judgment in Suit No. 162/57 is not barred by res judicata. The revision application is dismissed, but there will be no order as to costs.