and   they   were   appointed/adjusted   against   the 
sanctioned   vacant   post   of   male   Family   Planning   Workers   on 
temporary   basis   and   they   gave   their   joining   at   Primary   Health 
Centre   (P.H.C),   Panki,   Palamua.     The   services   of   the   petitioners 
were confirmed however, when their salary was withheld on the 3 ground that their initial appointment was illegal, they moved the 
Patna High Court in C.W.J.C. Nos. 1956/1990(R), 2024/1990(R), 
1394/1990(R)   and   2506/1990(R).   The   writ   petitions   were 
disposed   of   by   order   dated   05.09.1991   with   a   direction   to   the 
Secretary,   Health   Department,   Government   of   Bihar   to   decide 
whether   the   appointment   of   the   petitioners   was   legal   or   illegal, 
regular or irregular and a direction was also given for payment of 
their salary for the period they had actually worked. A show­cause 
notice dated 26.02.1992 was issued to the petitioners and by order 
dated   30.05.1992,   the   petitioners   were   terminated   from   service. 
The   petitioners   submitted   their   representations   to   the   Health 
Directorate, Government of Bihar and several other representations 
to   different   authorities   however,   by   Executive   order   dated 
30.03.2002, a decision was taken not to review the decision taken 
by the Government of Bihar on 30.05.1992. 4. The   petitioner   has   filed   the   present   writ   petition 
seeking   quashing     of      letter     dated    24.03.2005    issued   by 
Under­Secretary, Department of Health, Government of Bihar and 
memo   dated  16.01.2006   issued  by   the   Secretary,   Department   of 
Health, Government of Bihar.  A further prayer for a direction upon 
the respondents for fixing the pay of the petitioner in the revised 
pay­scale   with   effect   from   01.01.1996   till   the   date   of 
superannuation   of   the   petitioner   i.e.,   31.07.1999,   has   also   been 
made. 5. The brief facts of the case are that, the petitioner joined 
the Bihar Health Services and was appointed on a Class­II post in 
the Bihar Health Service under the Government of Bihar with effect 
from 28.09.1966. He superannuated from service with effect from 
31.07.1999 from the post of Medical Officer, Field Demonstration 4 Centre, P.S.M. Department, Rajendra Medical College, Ranchi. He 
made   a   representation   before   the   Secretary­cum­Commissioner, 
Department of Health, Bihar on 05.08.1999, for fixation of his pay 
in   the   pay­scale   of   Rs.   14,300   -   18,300/­   with   effect   from 
01.01.1996 and for arrears of salary.   On 15.10.1999, a pay­slip 
was   issued   from   the   office   of   the   Accountant­   General,   Bihar   in 
which   his   basic   pay   was   shown   at   Rs.   10,700/­   whereas   the 
petitioner was entitled for the pay­scale of Rs.14,300­ 18300/­ with 
effect from 01.01.1996. The petitioner again made representations 
before  different authorities however, by order dated 22.03.2005, 
the Under­Secretary, Department of Health, Government of Bihar 
rejected   the   representation   of  the   petitioner.   Being  aggrieved   by 
order   dated   22.03.2005   communicated   through   memo   dated 
24.03.2005,   the   petitioner   submitted   a   review   petition   on 
08.04.2005   to   the   Commissioner   and   Secretary,   Department   of 
Health   and   Family   Welfare,   Government   of   Bihar,   Patna,   which 
was rejected on 16.01.2006. The petitioner moved the High Court 
in W.P.(S) No. 5339 of 2004 which was disposed of by order dated 
01.10.2004 directing the respondents to consider the grievance of 
the   petitioner   and   pass   an   order   within   six   weeks.   The   main 
contention of the petitioner is summarized in para 52 of the writ 
petition which is extracted below. :­
 "That   the   main   contention   of   the 
 petitioner of W.P. (S) No. 5339 of 2004 is to  
 grant promotion and fixation  of pay as per his  
 seniority in Bihar Health Services by identifying  
 the  Need  Based posts  as he superannuated on  
 31.07.1999, his  pay and allowances were fixed  
 in   the   basic   scale   of   Rs.   6500   ­   10500/­   of  
 Medical Officer." The Bihar Reorganisation Act , 2000 6. On   15.11.2000,   the   existing   State   of   Bihar   was 
bifurcated  and a  new State namely,  the  State  of Jharkhand  was 5 created   under   the Bihar   Reorganisation   Act,   2000 (hereinafter 
referred to as 'Act of 2000'). Section 3 of the Act of 2000 declares 
that the State of Jharkhand shall be formed comprising 18 districts 
of the existing State of Bihar and from the appointed day, the said 
territories shall cease to form part of the existing State of Bihar. 
Accordingly, Section   4 declares   that   on   and   from   the   appointed 
day, the State of Bihar shall comprise the territories of the existing 
State of Bihar other than those specified in Section 3 . Section 2(e) defines   "existing   State   of   Bihar"   to   mean   the   State   of   Bihar   as 
existing immediately before the appointed day. And, Section 2(j) defines "successor State" in relation to the existing State of Bihar, 
means the State of Bihar or the State of Jharkhand. 7. Section 25 of the Act of 2000 declares that on and from 
the   appointed  day,   there   shall   be   a  separate  High   Court   for   the 
State of Jharkhand which would be referred to as the "High Court 
of Jharkhand" and the High Court of Patna shall become the High 
Court for the State of Bihar. Section 27 of the Act of 2000 declares 
the jurisdiction of the High Court which is extracted below, 27.   Jurisdiction   of   High   Court.­  The   High   Court   of  
 Jharkhand   shall   have,   in   respect   of   any   part   of   the  
 territories   included   in   the   State   of   Jharkhand,   shall  
 such jurisdiction, powers and authorities as, under the  
 law in force immediately before the appointed day, are  
 exercisable in respect of that part of the said territories  
 by the High Court at Patna. 8. Section 30 deals with the custody of seal of High Court 
and   declares   that   the   law   in   force   immediately   before   the 
appointed day with respect to the custody of the seal of the High 
Court at Patna shall with the necessary modifications, apply with 
respect to the custody of the seal of the High Court of Jharkhand. Section 31 of the Act of 2000 which deals "form of writs and other 
processes" declares that the law immediately before the appointed 
day with respect to the form of writs and special processes used, 6 issued   or   awarded   by   the   High   Court   at   Patna   shall,   with   the 
necessary   modifications,   apply   with  respect   to   the   form   of   writs 
and other processes used, issued or awarded by the High Court of 
Jharkhand. Cause of Action 9. Article   226 of   the   Constitution   of   India   as   was 
originally   enacted,   had   twofold   limitations   with   regard   to   the 
territorial jurisdiction of the High Courts namely, the writs issued 
by   the   Court   cannot   run   beyond   the   territories   subject   to   its 
jurisdiction   and,   the   person   or   authority   to   whom   writ   may   be 
issued must be amenable to its jurisdiction either by residence or 
location within those territories. 10. In  " Election Commission, India Vs. Saka Venkata Rao ", 
reported in AIR 1953 SC 210, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held : 11.  Again, in  " Lt. Col. Khajoor Singh Vs. Union of India &  
Anr. ", reported in AIR 1961 SC 532, a Constitution Bench of seven 
judges of the Hon'ble Supreme Court had an occasion to consider 
the correctness or otherwise of the judgment rendered by the Court 
in   " Saka   Venkata   Rao "  (supra),   and   the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court 
held, 13.   "..... It seems to us therefore that it is not  
 permissible to read in Article 226 the residence  
 or location of the person affected by the order  
 passed in order to determine the jurisdiction of  
 the High Court. That jurisdiction depends on the 
 person   or   authority   passing   the   order   being 7 within   those   territories   and   the   residence   or  
 location   of   the   person   affected   can   have   no  
 relevance   on   the   question   of   the   High   Court's  
 jurisdiction." 12. The   effect   of   the   above   decisions   was   that   no   High 
Court other than the High Court of Punjab had jurisdiction at that 
time to issue any direction, order or writ to the Union of India. As 
noticed above, an attempt to import the concept of 'cause of action' 
conferring jurisdiction on the High Courts under Article 226 of the 
Constitution of India, was repelled  by the Hon'ble Supreme Court 
and therefore, in the circumstances, Article 226 was amended by 
the Constitution   (Fifteenth   Amendment)   Act,   1963 and   a   new 
Clause   (1­A)   was   inserted.   By   the   Constitution   (Forty­second 
Amendment) Act, 1976 Clause   (1­A) was renumbered as Clause 
(2). The reason was stated thus : 13. However,   the  expression   'cause   of  action'  has  neither 
been defined in the Constitution nor in the Code of Civil procedure, 
1908. It may however, be described as a bundle of essential facts 
necessary for the plaintiff to prove before he can succeed. Failure 
to prove such facts would give the defendant a right to judgment in 
his favour. Cause of action thus gives occasion for and forms the 
foundation of the suit. 14. In   Halsbury's   Law   of   England  (4th   Edn.),   the 
expression 'cause of action' has been described as under, 8 15.  "   'Cause   of   action'   has   been   defined   as  
 meaning simply a factual situation, the existence  
 of which entitles one person to obtain from the 
 court   a   remedy   against   another   person.   The  
 phrase   has   been   held   from   earliest   time   to  
 include every fact which is material to be proved  
 to entitle the plaintiff to succeed, and every fact  
 which   a   defendant   would   have   a   right   to 
 traverse. 'Cause of action' has also been taken to  
 mean that  a  particular  act on  the part  of the  
 defendant which gives the plaintiff his cause of 
 complaint,   or   the   subject­matter   of   grievance 
 founding   the   action,   not   merely   the   technical  
 cause of action." 15. In   "Words   and   Phrases   (4th  Edn.)"   the   meaning 
attributed to the phrase 'cause of action' in common legal parlance 
is existence of those facts, which give a party a right to judicial 
interference on his behalf. 16.  The expression 'cause of action' means bundle of facts 
which the petitioner must prove, which traversed to entitle him to 
a judgment in his favour by the Court. The classic definition of the 
expression cause of action is found in "Cooke Vs. Gill", reported in 
(1873) 8 CP 107 wherein Lord Brett observed,
 "'Cause of Action'   means   every   fact   which   it  
 would be necessary for the plaintiff to prove, if  
 traversed,   in   order   to  support   his   right   to  the  
 judgment of the Court." 17. In  "Read Vs. Brown",  reported in  (1888) 22 QBD 128,  
Lord Esher M.R.  adopted   the  definition  for  the  phrase 'cause of 
action' which signifies,
  "every fact which it would be necessary for the  
 plaintiff to prove, if traversed, in order to sup­
 port his right to the judgment of the court. It  
 does not comprise every piece of evidence which  
 is   necessary   to   prove   each   fact,   but   every   fact  
 which is necessary to be proved. 18. In  "Chand   Kour   Vs.   Partab   Singh",  reported   in 
ILR(1889) 16 Cal 98, 102, Lord Watson observed, 
 ".....the cause of action has no relation whatever  
 to   the   defence   which   may   be   set   up   by   the 
 defendant,   nor   does   it   depend   upon   the  
 character of the relief prayed for by the plaintiff. 
 It refers entirely to the ground set forth in the  
 plaint as the cause of action, or, in other words, 
 to the media upon which the plaintiff asks the  
 Court to arrive at a conclusion in his favour." 19. In  " Gurdit   Singh   &   Ors.   Vs.   Munsha   Singh   &   Ors. ", 
reported   in  (1977)   1   SCC   791,  the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   has 
held, 41.  "The   expression   "cause   of   action"   has  
 sometimes   been   employed   to   convey   the  
 restricted   idea   of   facts   or   circumstances   which 
 constitute either the infringement or the basis of  
 a   right   and   no   more.   In   a   wider   and   more  
 comprehensive sense, it has been used to denote  
 the   whole   bundle   of   material   facts   which   a  
 plaintiff must prove in order to succeed. These  
 are all those essential facts without the proof of  
 which the  plaintiff must fail  in his  suit. Now,  
 whether we use the expression in the narrower  
 or in the wider sense, in the case before us, the  
 death of Kishan Singh was certainly an essential  
 part of the cause of action. It had to be proved  
 to   enable   the   plaintiffs   to   put   forward   their  
 claims to succeed at all. But, proof of the date of  
 death was not essential or indispensable for that  
 purpose.   It   could   only   become   material   in  
 deciding   whether   the  right   which  had   accrued  
 had been extinguished by the law of limitation.  
 Both the narrower  and the wider sense of the  
 term "cause of action" would certainly include  
 all those facts and circumstances on the strength  
 of   which   the   plaintiffs   urged   that   they   were  
 entitled   to   the   benefit   of   the   obligatory  
 presumption of law contained in Section 108 of  
 the Evidence Act. As these were not available to  
 the   plaintiffs   before   the   expiry   of   seven   years  
 from   August   5,   1945,   it   does   not   seem   to   be  
 possible   to   urge   that   this   cause   of   action   had 10 arisen more than three years before the filing of  
 the suits now before us. Applying the tests stated  
 above,   the   causes   of   action   in   the   earlier   and  
 later   litigations   would,   in   my   opinion,   be  
 materially different. We could only hold that no  
 cause of action had arisen at all if we assume  
 that Kishan Singh had not died at all. And, how  
 could   we   assume   that   without   disregarding Section 108 , of the Evidence Act? If we cannot  
 do that, the cause of action could only accrue  
 when we could presume that he is dead. And,  
 the date of its accrual could not possibly lie a  
 day earlier than 7 years after August 15, 1945,  
 when Kishan Singh was last heard of." 20. For the purpose of Article 226(2) of the Constitution of 
India, the expression 'cause of action', for all intent and purposes 
must be assigned the same meaning as envisaged under Section 
20(c) , C.P.C. It is pertinent to note that in view of Section 141 of 
Code of Civil Procedure, although the provisions of the Code would 
not apply to writ proceedings, since the provisions under Section 
20(c) of the Code of Civil Procedure and Clause (c) of Article 226 of   the   Constitution   of   India   are  pari   materia,   the   judgment   of 
Hon'ble Supreme Court rendered on interpretation of Section 20(c) of the Code of Civil Procedure would apply to the writ proceedings 
also. 21. In " Union of India & Ors. Vs. Oswal Woollen Mills Ltd. &  
Ors. ",  reported in  (1984) 2 SCC 646,  when it was found that the 
registered office of the company was situated at Ludhiana, but a 
petition was filed in the High Court of Calcutta on the ground that 
the   Company   had   its   branch   office   there,   the   Hon'ble   Supreme 
Court   held   that   the   High   Court   of   Calcutta   could   not   have 
entertained the writ petition. 22. In "State of Rajasthan & Ors. Vs. M/s Swaika Properties  
&   Anr.",  reported   in  (1985)   3   SCC   217,   the   company   whose 
registered office was at Calcutta filed a petition in the High Court 11 of   Calcutta   challenging   the   notice   issued   by   the   Special   Town 
Planning   Officer,   Jaipur   for   acquisition   of   immovable   property 
situated in Jaipur, the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that the 
entire cause of action arose within the territorial jurisdiction of the 
High Court of Rajasthan at Jaipur Bench and therefore, the High 
Court   of   Calcutta   had   no   territorial   jurisdiction   to   entertain   the 
writ petition. 23. In  " Oil and Natural Gas Commission" Vs. Utpal Kumar  
Basu & Ors. ", reported in (1994) 4 SCC 711, the Hon'ble Supreme 
Court   held   that,   when   the   Head   Office   of   the   ONGC   was   not 
located at Calcutta, nor the contract was to be carried out in West 
Bengal,   territorial   jurisdiction   cannot   be   conferred   on   the   High 
Court   of   Calcutta   on   the   ground   that   an   advertisement   had 
appeared   in   a   daily   newspaper,   published   from   Calcutta,   or 
because   the   petitioner   had   submitted   his   bid   from   Calcutta,   or 
because  subsequent  representations  were  made  from  Calcutta  or 
because the final decision taken by ONGC was received at Calcutta 
inasmuch as none of these would constitute an 'integral part' of the 
'cause of action' so as to confer territorial jurisdiction on the High 
Court of Calcutta under Article 226 (2) of the Constitution. 24. In " C.B.I. Anti­Corruption Branch, Mumbai Vs. Narayan  
Diwakar ",  reported   in  (1999)   4   SCC   656,   a   petition   was   filed 
before the High Court at Guwahati for quashing the F.I.R. filed by 
the C.B.I. at Bombay, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has upheld the 
objection   that   the   High   Court   of   Guwahati   had   no   territorial 
jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition. 25. In " Union of India & Ors. Vs. Adani Exports Ltd. & Anr. ",  
reported   in  (2002)   1   SCC   567,  a  petition   was  filed  in   the   High 
Court at Gujarat claiming benefit of the Passport Scheme under the 
EXIM   policy   and   the   petition   was   allowed. Taking   note   of   the 12 judgment   in  " Oil   and   Natural   Gas   Commission   Vs.   Utpal   Kumar  
Basu Ors. " (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under, 16.  "It   is   clear   from   the   above   constitutional  
 provision   that   a   High   Court   can   exercise   the  
 jurisdiction in relation to the territories within 
 which   the   cause   of   action,   wholly   or   in   part,  
 arises.   This   provision   in   the   Constitution   has  
 come up for consideration in a number of cases  
 before this Court. In this regard, it would suffice  
 for us to refer to the observations of this Court  
 in the case of Oil and Natural Gas Commission  
 v. Utpal Kumar Basu & Ors. , (1994) 4 SCC 711 
 wherein it was held: 17.  It is seen from the above that in order to  
 confer jurisdiction on a High Court to entertain  
 a writ petition or a special civil application as in  
 this case, the High Court must be satisfied from  
 the entire facts pleaded in support of the cause 13 of action that those facts do constitute a cause 
 so as to empower the court to decide a dispute  
 which   has,   at   least   in   part,   arisen   within   its  
 jurisdiction. It is clear from the above judgment  
 that   each   and   every   fact   pleaded   by   the  
 respondents   in   their   application   does   not   ipso  
 facto lead to the conclusion that those facts give  
 rise   to   a   cause   of   action   within   the   court's  
 territorial jurisdiction unless those facts pleaded  
 are such which have a nexus or relevance with  
 the lis that is involved in the case. Facts which  
 have   no   bearing   with   the   lis   or   the   dispute  
 involved in the case, do not give rise to a cause  
 of action so as to confer territorial jurisdiction  
 on   the   court   concerned.   If   we   apply   this  
 principle   then   we   see   that   none   of   the   facts  
 pleaded   in   para   16   of   the   petition,   in   our  
 opinion, falls into the category of bundle of facts 
 which would constitute a cause of action giving  
 rise to a dispute which could confer territorial  
 jurisdiction on the courts at Ahmedabad. 18. As we have noticed earlier, the fact that the  
 respondents   are   carrying   on   the   business   of  
 export and import or that they are receiving the  
 export and import orders at Ahmedabad or that  
 their documents and payments for exports and  
 imports are sent/made at Ahmedabad, has no  
 connection whatsoever with the dispute that is  
 involved in the applications. Similarly, the fact 
 that   the   credit   of   duty   claimed   in   respect   of  
 exports   that   were   made   from   Chennai   were  
 handled   by   the   respondents   from   Ahmedabad  
 have   also   no   connection   whatsoever   with   the 
 actions   of   the   appellants   impugned   in   the  
 application.   The   non­granting   and   denial   of  
 credit in the passbook having an ultimate effect,  
 if   any,   on   the   business   of   the   respondents   at  
 Ahmedabad would not also, in our opinion, give  
 rise to any such cause of action to a court at  
 Ahmedabad   to   adjudicate   on   the   actions  
 complained against the appellants." 26. In " National Textile Corporation Ltd. & Ors. Vs. Haribox  
Swalram   &   Ors. ",  reported   in  (2004)   9   SCC   786,  the   Hon'ble 14 Supreme   Court   decided   the   issue   of   jurisdiction   of   the   Calcutta 
High Court to entertain the writ petition in the following facts: According to the writ petitioners, the money was  
 paid to the mills at Bombay. The learned Single 
 Judge after a detailed discussion of the matter  
 held   that   the   Calcutta   High   Court   had   no 
 jurisdiction   to  entertain   the   writ   petition.   The  
 Division Bench has reversed this finding on the  
 ground that concluded contract had come into  
 existence   which   could   be   cancelled   only   after 
 giving   an   opportunity   of   hearing   and  
 consequently, the question of revocation of the 
 contract at its Calcutta address would constitute 
 a cause of action. In our opinion, the view taken 
 by   the   Division   Bench   is   wholly   erroneous   in  
 law. It was nowhere pleaded in the writ petition  
 that   the   appellant   herein   had   initiated   any  
 action   under Section   11 of   the   Act   by   issuing  
 any notice to the writ petitioner for cancellation  
 of the contract. In fact, it is stated in para 18 of  
 the   petition   that   the   Central   Government   did  
 not   follow   the   procedure   prescribed   in Section  
 11 for   cancellation   of   contract.   Regarding   the  
 jurisdiction   of   the   Calcutta   High   Court,   the  
 relevant statement was made in para 73 of the 
 writ petition wherein it was stated as under: 12.1.  "As discussed earlier, the mere fact that  
 the   writ   petitioner   carries   on   business   at  
 Calcutta or that the reply to the correspondence  
 made by it was received at Calcutta is not an  
 integral   part   of   the   cause   of   action   and,  
 therefore,   the   Calcutta   High   Court   had   no  
 jurisdiction   to   entertain   the   writ   petition   and  
 the view to the contrary taken by the Division  
 Bench cannot be sustained. In view of the above 
 finding,   the   writ   petition   is   liable   to   be  
 dismissed....." 28. In  " Alchemist  Ltd.  & Anr. Vs.  State  Bank of  Sikkim  &  
Ors. ", reported in (2007) 11 SCC 335, the Hon'ble Supreme Court 
took note of the submissions of the parties in paragraph Nos. 8, 9 
and 10 which are as under, 8.  "The   appellant   Company   contended   that   a  
 part   of   cause   of   action   had   arisen   within   the  
 territorial   jurisdiction   of   the   High   Court   of  
 Punjab and Haryana. The appellant Company,  
 for   such   submission,   relied   on   the   following  
 facts: It was, therefore, submitted that at least a part  
of   cause   of   action   had   certainly   arisen   within  
the territorial jurisdiction of the High Court of  
Punjab   and   Haryana   and   hence   it   had 
jurisdiction   to   entertain   the   petition.   It   was,  
therefore,   submitted   that   the   impugned   order  
passed by the High Court deserves to be set aside  
by directing the Court to decide the writ petition  
on merits. 9.  The   respondents,   on   the   other   hand,  
submitted   that   neither   of   the   above   facts   nor  
circumstances can be said to be a part of cause  
of action investing jurisdiction in the High Court  
of   Punjab   and   Haryana.   According   to   the  
respondents,   all   substantial,   material   and  
integral facts constituting a cause of action were  
within the territory of the State of Sikkim and,  
hence, the High Court of Punjab and Haryana  
was   fully   justified   in   holding   that   it   had   no 
territorial   jurisdiction   to   entertain,   deal   with  
and decide the lis between the parties. 10.  The respondents, in this connection, relied  
upon the following facts: 29. In   the   aforesaid   circumstance,   the   Hon'ble   Supreme 
Court has held as under, 37. "From the aforesaid discussion and keeping  
 in   view   the ratio laid   down   in a   catena   of  
 decisions by this Court, it is clear that for the  
 purpose of deciding whether facts averred by the 
 appellant­petitioner   would   or   would   not  
 constitute a part of cause of action, one has to 
 consider   whether   such   fact   constitutes   a  
 material, essential, or integral part of the cause  
 of action. It is no doubt true that even if a small  
 fraction of the cause of action arises within the  
 jurisdiction of the court, the court would have  
 territorial   jurisdiction   to   entertain   the  
 suit/petition. Nevertheless it must be a "part of  
 cause of action", nothing less than that. 38.  In   the   present   case,   the   facts   which   have 
 been pleaded by the appellant Company, in our  
 judgment,   cannot   be   said   to   be   essential,  
 integral or material facts so as to constitute a  
 part of "cause of action" within the meaning of Article   226(2) of   the   Constitution.   The   High  
 Court, in our opinion, therefore, was not wrong 
 in dismissing the petition." 30. In  " South   East   Asia   Shipping   Co.   Ltd.   Vs.   Nav   Bharat  
Enterprises   Pvt.   Ltd.   &   Ors. ",  reported   in  (1996)   3   SCC   443,  a 
contract was executed in Bombay and performance of the contract 
was   also   to  be   done   under   the   jurisdiction   of  the   Bombay   High 
Court  however,  merely because bank guarantee was executed at 
Delhi   and   transmitted   for   performance   to   Bombay,   the   Hon'ble 
Supreme Court held that it would not constitute a 'cause of action' 18 to   give   rise   to   lay   a  suit   on   the   original   side   of   the   Delhi   High 
Court. The plea that since the bank guarantee was executed and 
liability  was enforced  from the bank at Delhi and therefore,  the 
Delhi High Court has jurisdiction, was rejected. It has been further 
observed that, the 'cause of action' has been explained as a bundle 
of   facts   which   taken   with  the   law  applicable   to  them,   gives   the 
plaintiff   a   right   to   claim   relief   against   the   defendant.   It   must 
include some act done by the defendant since in the absence of 
such an act, no cause of action would possibly be accrued or would 
arise. 31. In  " Subodh Kumar Gupta Vs. Shrikant Gupta & Ors. ",  
reported   in  (1993)   4   SCC   1,  the   branch   of   the   firm   was   at 
Chandigarh,   the   head   office   of   which   was   situated   in   Bombay 
however,   a   suit   was   instituted   in   the   Court   of   Civil   Judge, 
Chandigarh, for dissolution of the firm, it was held that no part of 
the cause of action can be said to have arisen within the territorial 
jurisdiction of the Chandigarh Court. 32. In  "State   of   Uttarakhand   &   Anr.   Vs.   Umakant   Joshi",  
reported in (2012) 11 SCC 164, when a direction was issued by the 
newly created High Court of Uttarakhand to grant promotion with 
effect from a date prior to formation of the new State, the Hon'ble 
Supreme Court has held, 27. "Therefore, the High Court of Uttarakhand,  
 which too came into existence with effect from  
 09.11.2000   did   not   have   the   jurisdiction   to  
 entertain the writ petition filed by Respondent 1  
 for   issue   of   a   mandamus   to   the   State  
 Government to promote him to Class I post with  
 effect   from   16.11.1989,   more   so   because   the  
 issues   raised   in   the   writ   petition   involved 
 examination of the legality of the decision taken 
 by the government of Uttar Pradesh to promote 
 Shri   R.K.   Khare   with   effect   from   16.11.1989  
 and other officers, who were promoted to Class I 19 post   vide   Order   dated   22.01.2001   with  
 retrospective effect. 28.  It   appears   to   us   that   the   counsel,   who 
 appeared on behalf of the State of Uttarakhand  
 and the Director of Industries did not draw the  
 attention   of   the   High   Court   that   it   was   not  
 competent   to   issue   direction   for   promotion   of  
 Respondent   1   with  effect   from  a   date  prior   to  
 formation   of   the   new   State,   and   that   too,  
 without hearing the State of Uttar Pradesh and 
 this is the reason why the High Court did not  
 examine the issue of its jurisdiction to entertain  
 the prayer made by Respondent 1. 29. In view of the above, we hold that the writ  
 petition   filed   by   Respondent   1   in   2008   in   the 
 Uttarkhand   High   Court   claiming   retrospective  
 promotion   to   Class   I   post   with   effect   from  
 16.11.1989   was   misconceived   and   the   High  
 Court committed jurisdictional error by issuing  
 direction   for   his   promotion   to   the   post   of  
 General   Manager   with  effect   from  16.11.1989  
 and for consideration of his case for promotion  
 to the higher posts with effect from the date of  
 promotion of his so­called juniors." Discussion : 35. Mr. Prabhash Kumar, learned counsel appearing for the 
petitioners in W.P.(S) No. 5329 of 2007 has adopted the argument 
of Mr. Saurav Arun, Advocate and supplemented his arguments by 
placing  reliance   on   orders  passed  in   W.P.(S)  No.  2903  of  2009, 
W.P.(S) No. 5076 of 2003 and the order of the Hon'ble Supreme 
Court passed in C.A. No. 5338 of 2006. 36.  Adverting to the contention of the learned counsel for 
the   petitioners   that   in   view   of Section   27 of   the   Bihar 
Reorganisation   Act,   2000,   read   with   the   High   Court   at   Patna 
(Establishment of a Permanent Bench at Ranchi) Act, 1976, since 
the petitioners were appointed and posted in the offices which now 
form part of the territory of the State of Jharkhand, the Hon'ble 
Jharkhand High Court has jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition 
preferred by the petitioners, I find that the Act of 1976 by which a 
Permanent Bench of High Court at Patna was established at Ranchi 
would   no  longer   operate   in   view  of  the   enactment   of  the Bihar 
Reorganisation Act, 2000 . 37. As   noticed   earlier, Section   25 of   the   Bihar 
Reorganisation Act, 2000 declares that on and from the appointed 
day,   there   shall   be   a   separate   High   Court   for   the   State   of 
Jharkhand. Section 30 deals with the custody of seal of High Court 
and Section   31 deals   with   form   of   writs   and   other   processes. Section 32 declares that the law in force immediately before the 
appointed day relating to the powers of the Chief Justice, Single 21 and Division Courts of the High Court at Patna with respect to all 
matters  ancillary   to the  exercise   of  those   powers  shall,   with  the 
necessary   modification,   apply   in   relation   to   the   High   Court   of 
Jharkhand.   An   important   expression   "with   the   necessary 
modification" has occurred in Sections 30 , 31 and 32 . A con­joint 
reading of Section 25 and Section 27 would make it clear that the 
jurisdiction of the High Court of Jharkhand would flow from the 
provisions of the Bihar Reorganisation Act, 2000 and it would be 
confined to the territory of the State of Jharkhand. This has been 
made   clear   by   the   expression   "with   the   necessary   modification" 38. In  "Kusum   Ignots   &   Alloys   Ltd.   Vs.   Union   of   India   &  
Anr.", reported in (2004) 6 SCC 254, the appellant­company which 
had   its   Head   Office   at   Mumbai   and   which   had  obtained   a  loan 
from Bhopal Branch of State Bank of India, filed a writ petition in 
the High Court of Delhi, which was dismissed on the ground of lack 
of   territorial   jurisdiction.   The   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   ruled   that 
passing of a legislation by itself does not confer any right to file a 
writ petition in any court unless a cause of action arises therefor. I 
find that this decision does not help the case of the petitioners. It 
was held that the fact which is neither material nor essential nor 22 integral part of the 'cause of action' would not constitute a part of 
'cause   of   action'   within   the   meaning   of Article   226(2) of   the 
Constitution. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed, 18. "The facts pleaded in the writ petition must  
 have a nexus on the basis whereof a prayer can  
 be granted. Those facts which have nothing to  
 do with the prayer made therein cannot be said  
 to   give   rise   to   a   cause   of   action   which   would  
 confer jurisdiction on the Court." 39. In  "Rajasthan   High   Court Advocates'   Association   Vs.  
Union of India & Ors. ", reported in (2001) 2 SCC 294, the order of 
the   then   Acting   Chief   Justice   of   the   High   Court   of   Rajasthan 
carving out jurisdiction between the cases to be heard at Jodhpur 
Principal   Seat   and   Jaipur   Bench   Seat   and   a   declaration   with 
respect to 'cause of action' fell for examination before the Hon'ble 
Supreme Court and it was held that, "whether the case arises from 
one   of   the   specified   districts   or   not   so   as   to   determine   the 
jurisdictional   competence   to   hear   by   reference   to   territory 
bifurcated Principal Seat and the Bench Seat, shall be an issue to 
be decided in an individual case by the Judge or judges hearing the 
matter, if a question may arise in that record. This decision is also 
not helpful to the petitioners. 40. In  " Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Ranchi & Anr.  
Vs.   Swarn   Rekha   Cokes   and   Coals   (P)   Ltd.   &   Ors. ",  reported   in 
(2004) 6 SCC 689, the nature and scope of Sections 84 and 85 of 
the Bihar Reorganisation Act, 2000 fell for consideration before the 
Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   and   it   was   held   that   the   provisions   as 
contained   in Sections   84 and 85 provide   that   laws   which   were 
applicable to the undivided State of Bihar would continue to apply 
to the new states created by the Bihar Reorganisation Act, 2000 , 
unless such law is repealed or amended. 41. In  " CBI, AHD, Patna Vs. Braj Bhushan Prasad & Ors. ",  
reported in  (2001) 9 SCC 432,  when a question arose as to the 
place   of   enquiry/investigation   into   the   cases   relating   to   Fodder 
Scam, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that since the main offence 
is under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and as in all the cases treasuries were situated within the territory 
of   State   of   Jharkhand,   all   the   33   cases   involved   in   the   appeals 
before the Supreme Court stood transferred to the courts situated 
within the territories of State of Jharkhand. 42. In  " Shyam   Chandra   Chaudhary   Vs.   State   of   Bihar ",  
reported in  2002 (3) JCR 195(Pat),  it was held that even though 
the convict was lodged in Bhagalpur Jail in the State of Bihar, since 
the conviction of the accused was ordered by a court falling under 
the   jurisdiction   of   the   Jharkhand   High   Court,   the   appeal 
challenging the order of conviction would lie before the Jharkhand 
High Court. 43. In " Ram Badan Singh Vs. State of Jharkhand ", reported 
in 2003 (3) JCR 8 (Jha), the effect of Section 2(f) , Sections 84 and 85 of  the  Bihar Reorganisation   Act,  2000 was  considered and it 
was held that the Bihar Public Health Engineering Service Class II 
Rules   would   bind   both   the   successor   states   unless   suitable 
provision is made by the competent legislature. 44. In   " State   of   Bihar   Vs.   Arvind   Bijay   Bilung   &   Anr. ", 
reported in 2001 (3) JCR 155 (Jhr), Section 72 (1) and (2) of the Bihar   Reorganisation   Act,   2000 was   considered   and   it   was   held 
that the State of Bihar would have no jurisdiction to suspend the 
persons   holding   posts   and   offices   in   the   State   of   Jharkhand.
This is also not relevant in the facts of the present case. 45. In  " Akhileshwar Prasad Vs. Jharkhand State Electricity  
Board ",  reported   in  2006   (2)   JCR   418   (Jha),  in   view   of   the 
agreement reached between the Jharkhand State Electricity Board 24 and   the   Bihar   State   Electricity   Board   and   subject   to   final 
accounting/adjustment   of   their   liabilities,   the   Jharkhand   State 
Electricity Board was directed to make payment of retiral benefits 
to   the   employees   who   had   retired   from   the   offices   now   falling 
within the territorial jurisdiction of the State of Jharkhand. This 
decision is also not an authority on the point that if the employee 
has retired prior to the appointed day from an office now falling 
under   the   territory   of   the   State   of   Jharkhand,   the   writ   petition 
would be maintainable before the Jharkhand High Court. 46. In  " Rajendra   Pratap   Sinha   Vs.   State   of   Jharkhand ",  
reported in  2009 (2) JLJR 750, Sections 72 and 73 of the Bihar 
Reorganisation Act, 2000 were considered and it was held that in 
view   of Section   73 of   the   Act,   the   service   conditions   of   the 
employee   cannot   be   altered   to   his   disadvantage   by   any   of   the 
successor States. 47. In  "Singhbhum   Homoeopathic   Medical   College   and  
Hospital & Anr. Vs. State of Bihar",  reported in 2002 (2) PLJR 80,  
again,   the   scope   of Section   2(f) and Section   84 of   the   Bihar 
reorganisation   Act,   2000,   was   considered   and   it   was   held   that 
notwithstanding   the   change   in   the   territories,   the   statutory 
notifications and other laws would continue to bind the new State. 48. In  " Bharati Prasad Thakur Vs. Sidhu Kanhu University,  
Dumka ", reported in 2002 (1) JLJR 491, leaving the matter open in 
so   far   as   the   liability   of   the   State   of   Bihar   and   the   State   of 
Jharkhand   was   concerned,   since   the   Godda   college   which   falls 
under the Sidhu Kanhu University and which now falls under the 
territory of State of Jharkhand,  a direction was given to the State 
of   Jharkhand   and   Sidhu   Kanhu   University   to   make   payment   of 
pension to the writ petitioner. 49. I   find   that   none   of   the   decisions   relied   on   by   the 
petitioners advances their case. The judgments relied upon by the 25 learned counsel appearing for the petitioners are not at all lending 
any support to the case of the petitioners. These decisions are not 
authorities for the proposition that the order of termination passed 
by the State of Bihar prior to creation of new State of Jharkhand 
would give rise to 'cause of action' to prefer a writ petition before 
the Jharkhand High Court or that the Jharkhand High Court would 
have the territorial jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition merely 
because   the   offices   where   the   petitioners   were   posted   now   fall 
within the territory of the State of Jharkhand. 50. Coming back to the facts of the case,   I   find that in 
W.P.(S) No. 1594 of 2003 the impugned order dated 30.05.1992 
was     passed   by   the   Health   Commissioner   and   Secretary, 
Government   of   Bihar,   however,   he   has   not   been   made   a   party. 
Even, the State of Bihar has not made a party­Respondent. Further, 
the executive order dated 30.03.2002 which has been impugned by 
the petitioners, is a decision taken by the Secretary, Department of 
Health,   in   the   files,   declining   to   reconsider   the   order   dated 
30.05.1992 of the Government of Bihar. I further find that in the 
writ petition, there are references of Respondent No. 2 to whom a 
direction was given vide order dated 21.04.1992, which is factually 
incorrect. Neither a direction was given to the Respondent No. 2 
nor order dated 30.05.1992 was passed by Respondent No. 2, as 
alleged   in   the   writ   petition.   Respondent   No.   2   is   the   Health 
Commissioner   (Cell)­cum­Secretary,   Health   Department, 
Government of Jharkhand. There are references of certain official 
correspondence by Respondent Nos. 2 and 4. It would be useful to 
take note of statements made in paragraph Nos. 25, 26, 27 and 28 
in W.P.(S) No. 1594 of 2003. 25.  "That it is submitted that the termination  
 letter   30.05.1992   and   executive   order   dated 
 30.03.2002   (contained   in   Annexure­   10   and 18) are against law and are without jurisdiction 26 for   violation   of   this   Hon'ble   Court's   judgment  
 and order and hence are fit to be quashed. 26.  That   due   to   filing   from   time   to   time  
 representations to the concerned authorities and  
 getting their reply through executive orders, the  
 petitioners   were   awaiting   in   hope   and  
 anticipation   that   their   services   could   be 
 regularised/reinstated by the respondent in facts  
 and circumstances of their grievance and order  
 and direction from time to time passed by this  
 Hon'ble Court could not move this Hon'ble Court  
 earlier. 27.  That   petitioners   after   passing   of   executive 
 order   dated   30.03.2002   (Annexure­   18)  
 upholding   the   previous   order   contained   in  
 Annexure­ 10 have lost their hope to get service,  
 have any how, collected some amount and hence  
 the instant petition is being filed with a prayer  
 to   consider   the   grievance   of   the   petitioners   in  
 light   of   order   and  direction   dated   21.04.1992  
 (Annexure­ 9) passed by the Hon'ble High Court  
 in   C.W.J.C.   No.   2950/91   (R)   which   has   not  
 been obeyed by the Respondent No. 2. 28.  That   petitioners   have   no   any   alternative 
 and   efficacious   remedy   than   to   move   this  
 Hon'ble High Court." 51.  The order by which the services of the petitioners were 
terminated,   is  the  order   dated  30.05.1992  passed  by  the   Health 
Commissioner and Secretary, Government of Bihar. Merely because 
when the order dated 30.05.1992 was passed, the petitioners were 
serving in the offices which now form part of the territory of the 
State of Jharkhand or because certain correspondences took place 
between the officials of the Department of Health, Government of 
Jharkhand   or   because   some   decision   was   taken   in   the   internal 
official   file   by   the   Health   Secretary   of   the   Government   of 
Jharkhand not to re­examine or review the order of termination 
dated 30.05.1992, would not give rise to 'cause of action' to the 
petitioners to move the Jharkhand High Court. It cannot be said 
that the aforesaid facts as pleaded in the writ petition, are material 27 facts or integral facts or essential facts which would constitute the 
'cause of action' and therefore, it cannot be said that even a part of 
'cause   of   action'   has   arisen   in   the   territory   of   the   State   of 
Jharkhand   and   therefore,   a   writ   can   be   maintained   before   the 
Jharkhand High Court. 52. Similarly, in W.P.(S) No. 5329 of 2007, the impugned 
orders were issued by the authorities of the Government of Bihar. 
The   representations   were   made   to   the   authorities   of   the 
Government   of   Bihar   and   a   direction   has   been   sought   on   the 
authorities   of   the   Government   of   Bihar   and   therefore,   merely 
because in earlier proceeding a direction was issued by the Court to 
the State of Jharkhand also, this would not give rise to any 'cause 
of action' so as to maintain the writ petition before this Court.  In 
the entire writ petition no grievance has been raised against the 
State   of   Jharkhand   and   therefore,   the   fact   that   the   State   of 
Jharkhand was made a party in proceeding in W.P.(S) No. 5339 of 
2004 and a direction was issued to the State of Jharkhand, are not 
the facts which can be said to be constituting the integral part of 
the 'cause of action' so as to infer that a part of the 'cause of action' 
has arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of the High Court of 
Jharkhand and therefore, the writ petition would be maintainable 
in this Court. The impugned order has been passed by an authority 
of the Government of Bihar. 53. In  "State   of   Haryana   &   Anr.   Vs.   Haryana   Civil  
Secretariat Personal Staff Association",    reported in  (2002) 6 SCC  
72,  it   has   been   held   that   merely   because   averment   in   the   writ 
petition has not been specifically rebutted, relief cannot be granted 
and the High Court is bound to consider the averment on its true 
merits before granting relief to the writ petitioner. 54. I further find that there is no averment in both the writ 
petitions that this Court has territorial jurisdiction to entertain this 28 writ petition.  This is also not averred in both the writ petitions that 
either   'cause   of   action'   or   a   part   of   'cause   of   action'   has   arisen 
within   the   jurisdiction   of   the   High   Court   of   Jharkhand   and 
therefore, High Court of Jharkhand has jurisdiction to entertain the 
writ petition. 55. In  " Oil and Natural Gas Commission" Vs. Utpal Kumar 
Basu & Ors. " (supra), when a writ petition was entertained by the 
High Court, the Hon'ble Supreme Court expressed its displeasure in 
these words, 12.".....Notwithstanding the strong observations 
 made by this Court in the aforesaid decision and  
 in   the   earlier   decisions   referred   to  therein,   we 
 are distressed  that the  High Court of  Calcutta  
 persists   in   exercising   jurisdiction   even   in   cases  
 where   no   part   of   the   cause   of   action   arose  
 within its territorial jurisdiction. It is indeed a  
 great pity that one of the premier High Courts of  
 the country should appear to have developed a  
 tendency   to   assume   jurisdiction   on   the   sole  
 ground that the petitioner before it resides in or  
 carries on business from a registered office in the  
 State   of   West   Bengal.   We   feel   all   the   more  
 pained that notwithstanding the observations of  
 this   Court   made   time   and   again,   some   of   the  
 learned   judges   continue   to   betray   that  
 tendency......" Conclusion: Direction : (Shree Chandrashekhar, J.)
Jharkhand High Court, Ranchi
Dated: 10/05/2013
Manish/A.F.R.