Dilip Shivnarayan Jha
Sanbro Corporation
Anand Sancheti 					Appellants
Vidarbha Enviro Protection Ltd.,
Maharashtra Enviro Power Ltd.,
SMS Infrastructure Ltd.,								
Vs.
Commissioner of Central Excise, 		Respondent
Nagpur		

Appearance: 2.	The facts relevant to the case are briefly as follows. 2.1	M/s Sanbro Corporation, Dharampeth, Nagpur, (Sanbro in short) is a partnership firm and the partners are  i) Shri. Anand Sancheti, ii) Abhay Sancheti, iii) Ajay Sancheti and iv) M/s SMS infrastructure Ltd., Dharampeth, Nagpur. Sri. Anand Sancheti is also a Director of M/s SMS Infrastructure Ltd. M/s SMS Infrastructure Ltd., Nagpur (SMS in short) entered into an agreement dated 10-2-2006 with M/s Westinghouse Plasma Corporation, Madison, Pennsylvania, USA (WPC in short) for supply of 4 sets of 300KW Plasma Torch Systems with two spare torches for a price of US $ 15,50,000/- M/s WPC vide letter dated 11-9-2007 gave consent to SMS to assign the agreement dated 10-2-2006 to M/s Sanbro Corporation. Vide assignment agreement dated 13-9-2007 executed between M/s SMS and Sanbro, the earlier agreement dated 10-2-2006 between SMS and WPC was assigned to M/s Sanbro on the same terms and conditions agreed to earlier subject to M/s Sanbro reimbursing all the payments made by SMS till date. M/s Sanbro filed bills of entry no. 136 & 137 both dated 16-1-2008 for import of the aforesaid goods and claimed the benefit of duty exemption under notification No. 97/2004 dated 17-9-2004 under the Export Promotion of Capital Goods Scheme (EPCG in short). In the said EPCG licence, M/s Sanbro had declared M/s VEPL as the supporting manufacturer. The central excise officers conducted a physical verification on 16-6-2008 about the installation of capital goods at the supporting manufacturers premises and found that there was no manufacturing unit at the declared address of the supporting manufacturer and the entire premises were a barren land. Sri. Ranjit Dayanand Jain, Sr. Manager of VEPL in his statement recorded under section 14 of the Central Excise Act, 1944, inter alia, admitted that as they had not started the construction activities of the factory as they had no orders. Vide letter dated 18-7-2008, M/s Sanbro informed the jurisdictional Asst. Commissioner of Customs that it might not be possible for them to complete their export obligations within the specified time limit and therefore, they have decided not to avail the EPCG scheme and accordingly they are paying the duty foregone along with interest. 2.2	Subsequently, the department started investigation against M/s Sanbro and as part of the investigation conducted searches in the premises of M/s Sanbro and incriminating documents were recovered. Statements of Sri. Shashikant Mandale, Accountant and Sri A.B. Nimkar, Asst. General Manager (Finance & Accounts) of M/s SMS and Sri. Anand Sancheti, Partner of M/s Sanbro and Director of SMS were recorded. The investigation conducted revealed the following:- 3.	The learned Counsel for the appellants made the following submissions: 4.1	As regards the value of the goods declared in the invoice No.534 produced by the appellant for discharge of customs duty liability, the same shows a value of US $ 10,61,000/-. However, another invoice bearing the same number and date recovered during the search of appellants premises indicated a value of US $ 15,76,581/-. It is, therefore, evident that the appellant, M/s Sanbro, produced false/fabricated invoice before the Customs while discharging duty liability. Further as per the letter dated 11/09/2007 from Westinghouse Plasma Corporation addressed to M/s.SMS Infrastructure Ltd., the price breakdown of the goods under supply has been given, which clearly shows the total price for Plasma Torch System at US $ 15,50,000/- comprising of Custom Engineering for Plasma Torch System at US $ 3,87,500/-, Engineering Services for Installation, training and startup at US $1,01,500/- and Hardware Components with a value of US $ 10,61,000/-. Thus, the entire value pertained to the Plasma Torch System imported by the appellant and therefore, it is this value which needs to be taken into account for discharge of duty liability. The very existence of three documents for the same transaction indicating different values itself is a clear pointer to the submission of false and fabricated documents to claim ineligible exemption and evasion of Customs duty. Therefore, there is a clear suppression of facts on the part of the appellant about the nature of transaction undertaken . He further, points out that M/s.SMS Infrastructure Ltd., is a partner of the importing firm M/s. Sanbro Corporation and it was M/s.SMS Infrastructure Ltd., who had paid for the goods imported much prior to the actual importation and therefore, M/s.SMS Infrastructure Ltd. was fully aware of the value of the goods imported by M/s. Sanbro Corporation and therefore, they had aided and abetted mis-declaration of value by M/s. Sanbro Corporation. Further M/s.SMS Infrastructure Ltd. being a partner of M/s.Sanbro Corporation should have been aware of availing of the benefit of EPCG exemption and within a week of import of the capital goods, they purchased the same from M/s. Sanbro Corporation knowing fully well that it was a clear case of diversion. Thereafter, they resold the goods to VEPL & MEPL. VEPL and MEPL are group companies of M/s.SMS Infrastructure Ltd. Therefore, all the three of them knew the fraudulent nature of the transaction and therefore, they have aided and abetted in evasion of Customs duty by M/s. Sanbro Corporation and they have also dealt with the goods which were liable to confiscation. Accordingly, he submits that the goods seized are liable to confiscation and all the parties involved are liable to penalty for their active involvement in aiding and abetting the evasion of Customs duty by M/s. Sanbro Corporation. Accordingly, he pleads for upholding the impugned orders. 5.	We have carefully considered the submissions made by the appellants as well as the Revenue. 5.1	The first question of determination is what is the value of the goods under importation on which duty liability is required to be discharged. From the invoice No.534 dated 28/09/2007 issued by Westinghouse Plasma Corporation, USA to M/s. Sanbro Corporation, the total value declared is US $ 15,76,581/- comprising of US $ 10,61,000/- towards Plasma Torch System, US $ 4,89,000/- towards Custom Engineering, Training Manuals and Specifications for De-Ionized Water Cooling and Air Supply System, US $ 21,588/- for Six Plasma Tuyeres, Freight island transportation, export crating and containerizing of shipping of these systems for a value of US $ 4993/-. The appellant does not dispute the value addition of US $ 26,581/- in respect of the activities undertaken abroad for the Plasma Torch System. Their dispute is only respect of inclusion of US $ 4,89,000/- paid for Custom Engineering, Training Manuals and Specifications for De-Ionized Water Cooling and Air Supply System. Their contention is that these do not pertain to the Plasma Torch System imported by the appellant. This contention is clearly unacceptable for the following reasons. 5.2	Order for purchase of these goods was placed by SMS Infrastructure Ltd. with Westinghouse Plasma Corporation and the prices agreed for supply was US $ 15,50,000/-. As per letter dated 11-9-2007, the agreed price for the goods to be supplied by Westinghouse Plasma Corporation to M/s.SMS Infrastructure Ltd., in terms of the agreement dated 10/02/2006, was US $ 15,50,000/- with the following break up: (Pronounced in Court on ..)

(Ramesh Nair)
Member (Judicial)
(P.R. Chandrasekharan)
Member (Technical) 

pj 1 26