Hon'ble Mohd. Azhar Husain Idrisi,J. (Delivered by Hon'ble Rajiv Gupta, J.) 1. Heard Shri Dharmendra Kumar Chaubey, learned counsel for the appellant, Shri Jitendra Kumar Jaiswal, learned AGA for the State and perused the record. 2. This instant jail appeal has been filed against the judgment and order dated 22.08.2012 passed by Additional Sessions Judge/Court No.2, Muzaffarnagar in Sessions Trial No.602 of 2009 ( State Vs. Dilshad ), arising out of Case Crime No. 26 of 2009, under Sections 498-A , 304-B IPC and Section 3 / 4 of D.P. Act, Police Station Gadhipukhta, District Muzaffarnagar whereby the appellant has been acquitted of the offence under Sections 498-A , 304-B IPC and Section 3 / 4 of the D.P. Act, however, has been convicted for the offence under Section 302 IPC and awarded the sentence of life imprisonment with a fine of Rs.10,000/- and in default of payment of fine to further undergo additional imprisonment of three months. 3. As per the prosecution case, the First Information Report has been lodged by one Abdul Majeed, uncle of the deceased vide written report dated 02.02.2009 (Ext. Ka-1), which was registered vide Case Crime No.26 of 2009, under Sections 498-A , 304-B IPC and Section 3 / 4 of the D.P. Act in Police Station Gadhipukhta, District Muzaffarnagar at 15.05 hours i.e. 03:05 p.m whereof G.D. report was drawn at 15.05 hours, which has been marked as Ext. Ka-4 and the check FIR (Ext. Ka-3) was prepared by Constable Raj Kumar (P.W. 3) at the relevant date and time. 4. Briefly the prosecution case, as stated in the first information report is that the first informant is the uncle of the deceased and his niece Jahira Begum was married to Dilshad, resident of Chhutmalpur, Harijan Colony. At the time of marriage, adequate dowry was given to the appellant, however, he very often used to beat his niece on account of non-fulfilment of demand of dowry and used to turn her out of her matrimonial home. It is further stated that the appellant Dilshad had killed his niece for non-fulfillment of demand of dowry. 5. On the basis of said allegations, a written report was drawn by the scribe Hazi Shakeel, who along with the first informant Abdul Majeed had gone in the Police Station and lodged the FIR, registered vide Case Crime No. 26 of 2009, under Sections 498-A , 304-B IPC and Section 3 / 4 of the D.P. Act. On the basis of the said report, General Diary No.20 was drawn at 15.05 hours on 02.02.2009 by P.W. 3, which has been marked as Ext. Ka-4. 6. The information about the unnatural death of the deceased was given by the Station Officer to Naib Tehsildar on 02.02.2009 itself, consequent to which, he reached the place of incident and conducted the inquest in presence of S.O. Sanjay Garg and S.I. Rajveer Singh and other police personnels and prepared the inquest memo. The other relevant documents namely challan-nash, photo-nash, chitthi R.I., chitthi C.M.O. etc. was also prepared and proved by him, which has been marked as Ext. Ka-6 to Ka-9 and thereafter the body was sealed and handed over to the constable, who took the body to the mortuary for post-mortem. 7. An autopsy was conducted on the person of the deceased on 03.02.2009 at 3.00 p.m. As per the post-mortem report, the doctor had noted the following injuries: 8. The investigation of the instant case was thereafter handed over to Circle Ofiicer Arvind Kumar Maurya, who after noting the check FIR and G.D. report in the case diary recorded the statement of Head Moharrir Raj Kumar and thereafter reached the place of incident and recorded the statement of the first informant Abdul Majeed, who stated that on account of non-fulfillment of demand of dowry, his niece has been done to death by Dilshad. On the pointing out of the first informant, he had drawn the site plan, which has been proved by him and marked as Ext. Ka-11. Thereafter the statement of Haji Shakeel, Najrudeen, Aslam, Abdul Majeed and Kurban were recorded. On 04.02.2009, the appellant was arrested and sent to jail. 9. Thereafter, during the course of investigation, the statement of other witnesses were recorded and after concluding the investigation, the Investigating Officer had submitted the charge-sheet against the appellant under Sections 498-A , 304-B IPC and Section 3 / 4 of the D.P. Act, which has been proved by P.W. 5 and marked as Ext. Ka-12. On the basis of the said charge-sheet, learned Magistrate had taken cognizance of the offence and since the case was triable by the court of Sessions, as such, made over the trial to the Court of Sessions. The Sessions Court vide its order dated 22.01.2010 framed the charges against the appellant under Sections 498-A , 304-B IPC and Section 3 / 4 of D.P. Act. The appellant abjured the said charges and claimed to be tried, however subsequently, the trial court vide its order dated 28.03.2011 further framed the charge under Section 302 IPC also against the appellant. The appellant abjured even the said charge and claimed to be tried. 10. During the course of trial, the prosecution has examined as many as three witnesses of fact and four formal witnesses. Their testimony in brief is enumerated as under. 11. P.W. 1, Abdul Majeed is the first informant and uncle of the deceased Jahira Begum. He in his examination-in-chief has stated that his niece was married to the appellant about three years back as per the Muslim rites and customs. At the time of marriage, they had given sufficient dowry to the appellant, however, he was not satisfied with the said dowry and used to beat her niece for bringing inadequate dowry and for the non-fulfillment of which, he used to turn her out of her matrimonial home. After 6-7 months of the marriage, the appellant along with Jahira Begum started living in Gadhipukhta in a rented house where Jahira gave birth to two sons, however, they were killed by the appellant and he spread a message that by curse of God they died. 12. It is further stated that on 02.02.2009, at about 8.15 a.m, one Hazi Shakeel informed him on phone that Dilshad has killed his wife by hanging her. On receiving this message, he along-with 4-5 other persons reached at the house of Dilshad and found her niece dead body lying in the courtyard. He further stated that on account of non-fulfillment of demand of dowry, Dilshad had killed his wife. He then dictated the FIR to one Haji Shakeel, which was read out to him and thereafter he had put his thumb impression on it, which has been proved and marked as Ext. Ka-1. He had taken the said written report in the Police Station, on the basis of which, the FIR had been lodged. 13. During cross-examination, he stated that the deceased Jahira Begum was his real niece and daughter of his brother Abdul Khan. He further states that in his statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C., he had disclosed to the Investigating Officer that 4-5 days prior to her death, Jahira Begum had gone to attend the marriage of her brother, where she informed him that her husband Dilshad had asked her to bring some articles in dowry, however, if the said articles are not brought, he would kill her by pouring kerosene oil and setting her on fire, however, the said statement do not find place in the statement recorded by the Investigating Officer under Section 161 Cr.P.C. 14. He further states that the deceased had also informed him that about one and half years back, Dilshad had assaulted her, however, no report in this respect was lodged by him. He has further stated that in the statement recorded by the Investigating Officer, he has not disclosed the fact regarding the demand of dowry and assault by the appellant for the non-fulfillment of the same, for which he cannot assign any reason nor the said fact was mentioned in the FIR. On 02.02.2009, the information about the death of Jahira Begum was given to him by Hazi Shakeel on phone. The father of the deceased has also passed away and his family is living separately from Abdul Khan, father of the deceased. 15. He further states that the appellant at the time of marriage was living in mohalla Chhutmalpur, however, 6-7 months after the marriage, he started living in mohalla Gadhipukhta. While his stay at Chhutmalpur, the appellant had not demanded any dowry from the deceased nor had assaulted her for non-fulfillment of dowry. He categorically states that he never went to meet Dilshad or the deceased Jahira Begum at her house, nor ever called her to live at his house. He further states that the information about the death of the deceased Jahira Begum was received by Hazi Shakeel from one Gur Rahman, who used to stay in his mohalla. He further states that about 1½-2 years back, when the deceased used to live in mohalla Gadhipukhta, the appellant had turned out his wife out of her matrimonial home and thereafter she had reached his brother's house where he was also present and had seen her injuries but neither she was medically examined nor any report was lodged, however, the said fact has not been noted by the Investigating Officer. 16. He further states that the information about the death of the deceased was received by him at 03.00 p.m. and he had reached at the house of Dilshad at 04.30 p.m., however, the appellant did not met him at his house, though number of persons had assembled there, however, no one informed him about the whereabouts of Dilshad. He further stated that the Investigating Officer had not prepared the site plan in his presence nor Hazi Shakeel met him, when he reached there, however, he reached the place of incident about 10-15 minutes later. He has further stated that he had reached the Police Station at 05:00-06:00 p.m and thereafter the report was lodged. The Police reached the place of incident at 08:00-09:00 p.m. He further states that after lodging of the FIR in the Police Station, he never visited the place of incident. 17. He further states that Dilshad had demanded a motorcycle in dowry, however, the said fact of demand of motorcycle was neither pointed out by him in the FIR nor in his statement recorded by the Investigating Officer under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and only, for the first time, the fact of demand of motorcycle by the appellant is being stated by him in the court. He further states that Hazi Shakeel had not informed him that in his presence Dilshad had strangulated Jahira Begum, however, corrected himself and states that Hazi Shakeel informed him that in his presence Dilshad had strangulated his wife Jahira Begum, however, this fact was not mentioned in his statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. for which he showed his ignorance. 18. He further denied the suggestion that on account of death of her two sons and due to illness, Jahira Begum was mentally depressed and as such, she committed suicide. He further denied the suggestion that at the time of incident, Dilshad was not present at the place of incident and had gone out to work as a labourer. He has further denied the suggestion that just to extort money, he has falsely implicated Dilshad. He has further denied the suggestion that after deliberation and consultation with the police, he has lodged the FIR and is falsely deposing. 19. P.W. 2 Hazi Shakeel is the scribe of the written report and on phone had informed P.W.1, Abdul Majeed about the death of the deceased. He further states that at the time of incident, deceased Jahira Begum used to live with her husband in mohalla Gadhipukhta and he too was residing in its vicinity. Dilshad very often used to turn his wife out of her matrimonial home and they used to provide shelter to her by giving him Rs.200-300/-. When they used to pull Dilshad, he used to run away from his house. 20. He further states that about three years back in the night at about 2½-3 a.m., he had killed his wife by hanging her and when the news of her death spread in the village, then he had informed Abdul Majeed and called him and disclosed the entire facts to him, on the basis of which, he got a written report scribed by him, which was proved by him and marked as Ext. Ka-1. He has further pointed out that at the time of inquest, injuries were marked on the neck of the deceased and the inquest memo was prepared by P.W. 6 in his presence. 21. During cross-examination, he states that his house is situate at a distance of about 150-200 meters away from the house of Dilshad. He further states that he is not the eye-witness of the incident nor has seen Dilshad causing the death of his wife by strangulating her. Dilshad had never beaten his wife in his presence nor had made any demand of dowry and he was informed by the villagers that Dilshad used to demand dowry from his wife and for the non-fulfilment of which, he used to torture her and killed his wife by strangulating her. The Investigating Officer had recorded his statement at the place of incident on the day when the inquest was done. He further states that in his statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C., he had informed the Investigating Officer in the night at about 2½-3 a.m., Dilshad caused the death of his wife, however, the Investigating Officer has not recorded the said statement, as at the relevant time he was hopeless. 22. He further states that the information of the death of the deceased was given by him to his brother-in-law Gur Rahman to be communicated to Abdul Majeed. He further states that the inquest was made in his presence and he was one of its witness. He has also scribed the written report and had gone with Abdul Majeed to lodge the FIR and the FIR was scribed by him at the Police Station itself and the Station Officer was present with him. He denied the suggestion that the inquest was not drawn before him and his signatures were obtained on the blank papers. He further denied the suggestion that the FIR was scribed by him on his own and he got it signed by Abdul Majeed. 23. P.W. 3 is the Head Moharrir, who had drawn the check report and the G.D. entry report on the basis of the written report furnished to him by the first informant Abdul Majeed at 15.05 hours. He has proved the check FIR as well as G.D. Report drawn whereof and marked as Ext. Ka-4. 24. During cross-examination, he has stated that the written report was signed by the first informant in Urdu language and after lodging of FIR, a copy of the check report was given to him. At the time of lodging of the FIR, the Station Officer was not present, however, he had handed over the papers to the Investigating Officer on the same day. Thereafter, the Station Officer alongwith one Sub-Inspector has visited the place of incident, however, the first informant did not accompany the Station Officer and left after lodging the FIR. He has further denied the suggestion that the FIR was not registered on 02.02.2009 at about 15.05 hours but at a later point of time. 25. P.W. 4 is the Doctor, who conducted the autopsy on the person of the deceased on 03.02.2009 at 03.00 p.m., after receiving the relevant papers. He has proved the autopsy report and contents thereof, which has been exhibited as Ext. Ka-10. During cross-examination the doctor pointed out that the victim suffered five injuries. Injury nos.1, 3, 4 and 5 are ante-mortem injuries and not post-mortem injuries. He further stated that if the dead body falls on a hard surface, immediately after death, then injury nos. 2 to 5 could be caused, however, injury no.1 could not be caused in case of suicide. 26. P.W. 5 is the Investigating Officer of the instant case and has proved various stages of investigation. He has recorded the statement of first informant and at the pointing out of the first informant has inspected the spot and prepared the site plan, which is proved as Ext. Ka-11. He has shown the arrest of the appellant on 04.02.2009 and thereafter recorded the statement of the relevant witnesses and after concluding the investigation submitted the charge-sheet against the appellant under Section 498-A , 304-B IPC and Section 3 / 4 of the D.P. Act and proved the same, which is marked as Ext. Ka-12. 27. During cross-examination, he has reiterated that the site plan was prepared by him at the pointing out of the first informant. He further states that the first informant had not disclosed in his statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that 4-5 days prior to the incident of death of her niece, she had visited his brother's house on the occasion of his marriage and informed him about the demand of dowry by the appellant and threatened her that if his demand of dowry is not fulfilled, he would pour kerosene oil on her and set her on fire. 28. He further states that the first informant in his statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. had not disclosed that after about one and a half years of marriage, the appellant had turned out Jahira Begum from her matrimonial home, but had informed him that on account of demand of dowry, the appellant used to assault her, however, the date and time of making demand of dowry or assaulting her was not disclosed by the first informant. 29. He has further denied the suggestion that the site plan was not prepared by him at the pointing out of the first informant and in his presence. He further states that Hazi Shakeel in his statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. has not informed him that the appellant used to beat his wife and turned her out of her matrimonial home. He further states that Hazi Shakeel had not disclosed to him that about three years back Dilshad at about 02.30 p.m. in the night had killed Jahira Begum by strangulating her. He has further denied the suggestion that the relevant witnesses were not interrogated by him and fake and bogus report has been submitted by him. He further denied the suggestion that impartial investigation was not done. 30. P.W. 6 is the Naib Tehsildar, who had conducted the inquest and has proved the inquest report and has also prepared the other relevant papers namely challan-nash, photo-nash, chitthi R.I., letter to C.M.O. etc, which has been proved and marked as Ext. Ka-6 to Ka-9. During cross-examination, he has stated that the information about the death of the deceased was given to him from the Office of S.D.M. and, on the basis of the said information, he had reached the place of incident and conducted the inquest after receiving the relevant papers. He has denied the suggestion that the inquest was not prepared by him at the place of incident but was subsequently prepared at the Police Station. 31. P.W. 7 Shakeel Ahmed is the owner of the house, in which, the appellant used to reside on rent. He states that on 02.02.2009, he was present at his own house, which is situate quite at a distance from the house where the appellant used to reside. He further states that the factum of demand of dowry, by the appellant Dilshad from his wife, is not known to him and he also does not know as to how and when she died. The said witness has been declared hostile and prosecution had been given an opportunity to cross-examine him. 32. During cross-examination, attention of witness has been drawn to his statement shown to be recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C., however, he has denied to have given any such statement to police and has shown his ignorance as to how such statement has been recorded by the police. He has further denied the suggestion that he colluded with the appellant Dilshad with an intention to save him and is falsely deposing before the court. 33. Thereafter, the statement of the accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C. has been recorded by putting all incriminating circumstances to him. The appellant claimed that he has been falsely implicated. In his statement, he has categorically stated that at the time of incident he had gone to water his field and in the morning when he returned back, he saw large crowd had assembled at his house and then he came to know about the incident. He has further stated that two of his children had already died on account of which the deceased was under mental depression and though she committed suicide, he has been falsely implicated. 34. Having considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for both the parties and from the evidence adduced during the course of trial, it is clear that the instant case is based on circumstantial evidence, as there is no eye-witness of the occurrence. It is well settled principle of law, as held by the Hon'ble Apex Court as well as by this Court, that in a case based on circumstantial evidence, the circumstances must be such from which an inference of guilt is sought to be drawn. It must be cogently and firmly established and; that those circumstances should be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused that the circumstances taken cumulatively should form a chain, so complete, that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused and they should be incapable of explanation of any hypothesis other than that of the guilt of the accused and inconsistent with their innocence. 35. In the instant case, the prosecution at the first instance has tried to come out with a case of dowry death and the FIR was lodged alleging that the marriage between the appellant and the deceased were performed three years back, in which, adequate dowry was given, however, the appellant was not satisfied with the said dowry and used to torture the deceased for non-fulfillment of demand of dowry and turned her out her matrimonial home. Consequently, for the non-fulfillment of demand of dowry, the victim has been done to death. 36. P.W. 1 Abdul Majeed, who is the uncle of the deceased in his examination-in-chief has also stated that in the marriage of his niece sufficient dowry was given, however, still the appellant used to torture her and had turned her out of her matrimonial home and killed her for non-fulfillment of demand of dowry. From the perusal of the statement of P.W.-1 and the allegations made in the FIR, it is evident that neither in the FIR nor in the examination-in-chief, it has been categorically stated that when and what has been demanded as dowry. 37. Furthermore, even in the cross-examination of the said witness, it has only been stated that 4-5 days before the incident, the victim had gone to his brother's place for attending his marriage and there she had disclosed to his brother that certain articles were demanded by the appellant as dowry and it was stated that if the said articles are not given to him, then he would set her on fire by pouring kerosene oil, however, even the said statement of the P.W.1 is highly vague as the articles, which were demanded in dowry, have not been mentioned at all. 38. In the later part of the cross-examination, it is stated that the appellant used to demand a motorcycle, however, on being questioned, he has categorically stated that the factum of demand of dowry in the form of motorcycle was not stated by him in his statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. but only for the first time in the court, the factum of demand of motorcycle in dowry has been mentioned. 39. Even P.W. 2 Hazi Shakeel has not at all stated in his statement regarding the factum of demand of dowry for which the victim has been done to death and as such, from the entire evidence adduced, the case of dowry death could not be established and the appellant has been acquitted for the said charges. 40. Now the only evidence left against the accused-appellant is that the deceased is the wife of the appellant and has died due to strangulation within the four corners of his house and as such, we would now have to examine whether there could be a presumption drawn against him with the aid of Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act, keeping in mind the fact that the appellant in his statement recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C. has categorically stated that at the time of incident he had gone to water his field and in the morning, when he returned back, large crowd had assembled at his house and then only he came to know about the incident. 41. In Shivaji Chintappa Patil Vs. State of Maharashtra reported in (2021) 5 SCC 626, it was observed that "Section 106 of the evidence Act does not directly operate against either a husband or wife staying under the same roof and being the last person seen with the deceased. It was observed that Section 106 of the Evidence Act does not absolve the prosecution of discharging its primary burden of proving the prosecution case beyond reasonable doubt. It was further observed that only when the prosecution has led evidence which, if believed, will sustain a conviction, or which makes out a prima facie case, that the question arises of considering facts of which the burden of proof would lie upon the accused". 42. In the instant case, the appellant has categorically denied his presence at the place of the incident. Even in the statement of P.W.1 and P.W.2, there is nothing to show that at the time and place of incident, the appellant was available at or near his house, except the denial of the suggestion in the cross-examination of P.W. 1 that at the time of incident, the appellant was not at his house and had gone out to work as a labour. Beyond this, in the entire testimony of P.W.1 and P.W.2, there is nothing to show the presence of the appellant near or at the time and place of incident. 43. On the contrary, the appellant in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. has taken a positive stand that at the time of incident, he had gone to water his field and when he returned back, he saw large crowd at his house and then only he came to know about the death of the deceased, as such, no presumption under Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act can be drawn against him. 44. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Joydeb Patra and others Vs. State of West Bengal reported in (2013) 81 ACC 938 (SC), has clearly held as under: 45. In Sucha Singh Vs. State of Punjab reported in (2001) 42 ACC 908 (SC), this Court held: 46. Similarly, in Vikramjit Singh Vs. State of Punjab (2006) reported in 12 SCC 306, this Court reiterated: 47. In the case of Jose @ Pappachan vs. Sub Inspector of Police reported in (2016) 3 JIC 636 (SC), it has been held that in the absence of any persuasive evidence to hold that at the relevant time the accused was present in the house it would be impermissible to cast any burden on him as contemplated under Section 106 of the Evidence Act. 48. Thus, we are of the opinion that in the absence of any persuasive evidence to hold that at the relevant time the accused was present in the house, it would not be permissible to cast any burden on him as contemplated u/s 106 of the Evidence Act, the finding recorded by the trial court in this respect is, therefore, erroneous and liable to be set aside. 49. Moreover, while considering the applicability of Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act, it should be kept in mind that the said provision in anyway does not relieve the prosecution to prove its case beyond all reasonable doubt. Only when the prosecution case has been proved that the burden in regard to such facts which was within the special knowledge of the accused, then only burden may be shifted to the accused for explaining the same. It may be that in a situation of this nature where the Court legitimately may raise a strong suspicion that in all probabilities the accused was guilty of commission of heinous offence but applying the well settled principle of law that suspicion, howsoever grave it may be, cannot take the place of proof, and there is a large difference between something that `may be' proved, and something that `will be proved'. In a criminal trial, suspicion no matter how strong, cannot and must not be permitted to take place of proof. This is for the reason that the mental distance between `may be' and `must be' is quite large, and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions. In a criminal case, the court has a duty to ensure that mere conjectures or suspicion do not take the place of legal proof. The large distance between `may be' true and `must be' true, must be covered by way of clear, cogent and unimpeachable evidence produced by the prosecution, before an accused is condemned as a convict, and the basic and golden rule must be applied. In such cases, while keeping in mind the distance between `may be' true and `must be' true, the court must maintain the vital distance between mere conjectures and sure conclusions to be arrived at, on the touchstone of dispassionate judicial scrutiny, based upon a complete and comprehensive appreciation of all features of the case, as well as the quality and credibility of the evidence brought on record. The court must ensure, that miscarriage of justice is avoided, and if the facts and circumstances of a case so demand, then the benefit of doubt must be given to the accused, keeping in mind that a reasonable doubt is not an imaginary, trivial or a merely probable doubt, but a fair doubt that is based upon reason and common sense. (Vide: Hanumant Govind Nargundkar v. State of M.P., State v. Mahender Singh Dahiya and Ramesh Harijan v. State of U.P .) 50. In the instant case, from the evidence adduced, there is nothing on record to suggest that the appellant was at or around his resident at the relevant time. None of the prosecution witness has supported the prosecution case that at the relevant time, the appellant was present at his house and has assaulted the deceased, in the absence of which, in our opinion, the presumption under Section 106 of the Evidence Act cannot be drawn against him, on the basis of which, the appellant can be convicted. The view taken by the trial court in this respect is therefore, erroneous and cannot be sustained. 51. Thus, taking into consideration the cumulative effect of the evidence adduced, the sum total of the analysis is that the prosecution evidence does not inspire our confidence and the possibility of involvement of someone else in the instant case cannot be completely ruled out. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the prosecution has failed to prove the charges against the appellant beyond pale of doubt, therefore, this is a fit case where the accused-appellant is entitled to the benefit of doubt. 52. Consequently, the instant appeal is allowed. The judgment and order of the trial court dated 22.08.2012, convicting and sentencing the appellant, is set aside. The accused-appellant is acquitted of the charges for which he has been tried and convicted. The appellant is said to be in jail. He shall be set at liberty forthwith, unless warranted in any other case, subject to compliance of provisions of Section 437-A Cr.P.C. to the satisfaction of the trial court. 53. Let a copy of this order be forwarded to the trial court along with the record for information and compliance. Order Date :- 29.02.2024
 
Subham