1. This is an application at the instance of an accused praying for
regular bail in connection with the First Information Report
being I.C.R.No.Part-A 11214020222051 of 2022 registered with Page 1 of 18 Downloaded on : Tue Oct 10 20:36:42 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/7011/2023 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/10/2023

 undefined

the Kamrej Police Station, District: Surat for the offence
punishable under Sections 489(a), 489(b), 489(c), 489(d), 201
read with Sections 406 , 420 and 120B of the Indian Penal
Code. 2. The case of the prosecution may be summarized as
under; 2.1 One day a secret information was received by the police
officers of Kamrej Police Station about the transportation of
fake currency notes. 2.2 Acting upon such information, Police Inspector of Kamrej
Police Station along with his team reached near Pipodra Canal-
Pardi Cut, Opp: Shiv Hotel and accordingly as per the tip-off
received, one ambulance van reached there being registration
No.GJ-18-U-8912. Upon conducting search of the said van, fake
currency notes arranged in six tin boxes were found in the said
vehicle. 2.3 One Hitesh Parshottam Kotadia, who is the co-accused in
the present offence, was driving the said vehicle with the fake
currency notes and considering the huge quantity of the fake
currency notes, the driver along with the ambulance was
taken to the police station and the driver came to be
interrogated. 2.4 During the preliminary investigation, it was fond that the
said Hitesh Parshottambhai Kotadia obtained the fake currency
notes from another co-accused, namely, Dinesh Laljibhai
Poshiya who in turn obtained the said fake currency notes from Page 2 of 18 Downloaded on : Tue Oct 10 20:36:42 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/7011/2023 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/10/2023

 undefined

another co-accused, namely, Vikas Jain and his
agents/employees. The said fake currency notes worth
Rs.100/- Crore was brought from Mumbai to Surat. It was also
found that the said Hitesh Kotadia kept some of the fake
currency notes hidden at his office in Surat as also at his native
village. It was also found that the said Hitesh Kotadia also
handed over some fake currency notes to the co-accused
Vipulkumar Harishbhai Patel. 2.5 Upon the preliminary investigation being carried out, it
was found that one Vikas Jain of Mumbain was running his
business in the name and style as V.R. Logistic and was doing
his illegal activites through his employees Pravinbhai Sukhram
Jain, Anush Viranchilal Sharma and Dinanath Ramnivar Yadav. 2.6 The said Vikas Jain with the help of Hitesh, Dinesh and
Vipul was getting clients under the scheme of providing cash
against the bank transaction and for showing cash to
customers, Vikash Jain, Hitesh and Dinesh decided to print the
fake currency notes and, therefore, the said persons contacted
one Gurmitsing Jagjitsing Thatthal having its office at Delhi for
getting fake currency notes printed. 2.7 The said Gurmitsing, for carrying out the task of printing
the fake currency notes, contacted one Tarun Gautam
(absconding accused) who happens to be the brother-in-law of
the present applicant. The said Traun Gautam, in turn, gave an
order of printing fake currency notes to the present applicant
as the present applicant was earlier having the business of
printing press and having good contacts in the printing market. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/7011/2023 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/10/2023

 undefined

The present applicant-accused accepted the said order and
forwarded it to one another co-accused, namely, Sagir Ahmed
of Wing Marketing and Rahul Verma of BM Software. 2.8 Co-accused Amit alias Rana obtained the delivery of the
said printed fake currency notes from both the printers and
same was transported to Mumbai at the office of Vikas Jain.
Thereafter, the said fake currency notes were used by the
accused persons and made huge amount transaction with the
different customers. Thereafter, an FIR came to be lodged
against the accused persons named therein including the
present applicant. Hence, the present application. 3. Learned advocate Mr. Subhash Barot appearing for the
applicant has submitted that the criminal complaint was
registered on 30.09.2022 and the present applicant-accused
came to be arrested on 14.10.2022 and since then, he is in jail.
The investigation has already been completed and the charge-
sheet has also been filed by the concerned Investigating
Officer. Learned advocate Mr. Barot has further submitted that
the present application has been preferred after filing of the
charge-sheet. Learned advocate Mr.Barot has emphatically
submitted that at the time of deciding the present application,
the Hon'ble Court may consider the following circumstances
which are apparently found out from the compilation of the
charge-sheet papers; i) The role of the present applicant-accused is very limited.
He has only forwarded e-mails to the printing agencies for the
purpose of printing notes as ordered by Traun Gautam Page 4 of 18 Downloaded on : Tue Oct 10 20:36:42 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/7011/2023 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/10/2023

 undefined

(brother-in-law). The said notes have not been designed by the
applicant. The applicant has only supplied the papers used for
printing recovered notes. ii) The applicant has put reliance upon the words of Tarun
Gautam who happens to be his brother-in-law as he is
connected with the producers of web-series and the notes are
required for shooting purpose and at that point of time, it is
brought to the notice of the applicant that the said notes would
be used in the web series and, therefore, the specific words
"for shooting purpose" was printed on the notes. The
applicant did not have any knowledge about the conspiracy
hatched by the other co-accused persons. iii) The brother-in-law of the applicant, namely, Traun
Gautam has misused the status of relationship and trapped the
applicant-accused by disclosing that the notes were used in
the web series and the said work is entrusted to him by the
producers/directors of the series, and at that relevant point of
time, the applicant-accused had put reliance upon the words of
Tarun Gautam because he happens to be the brother-in-law of
the applicant. The applicant has never come into contact with
other co-accused persons who had hatched the conspiracy
and designed a plan to destabilized the economy of the
country by creating, generating and circulating the fake
currency notes in the market which are almost similar to the
original currency notes. Those words were printed both in Hindi
and English language. Therefore, by no stretch of imagination,
it can be said that those notes have been printed with a sole
purpose to circulate in the market. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/7011/2023 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/10/2023

 undefined iv) The present applicant-accused has received total amount
of Rs.7,53,000/- for the said job work and the said amount, in
turn, he has transferred in the account of Sagir Ahmed and
Rahul Verma after deducting his commission for the said job
work. The said amount has been received by the applicant
from the account of Traun Gautam and his wife through online
transaction and the said details of the bank account of the
applicant accused is also mentioned by the Investigating
Officer in the compilation of the charge-sheet papers. v) The applicant has not obtained delivery of the printed fake
currency notes and as per the case of the prosecution, the
said delivery was obtained by the co-accused Amit @ Rana
from Sagir Ahmed and Rahul Verma. vi) During the course of investigation, the Investigating
Officer has also recovered the laptop and mobile of the present
applicant-accused which were seized and sent for Scientific
Analysis. During the course of search of the applicant, no
incriminating articles or documents have been found by the
Investigation Officer. vii) The applicant-accused has not directly or indirectly
connected with the commission of crime and said fact can be
revealed from the statement of the witnesses. The call detail
recording of the present applicant-accused was obtained by
the Investigating Officer and which clearly reveals that except
Tarun Gautam, the present applicant-accused has not talked
with any other accused person and, therefore, he was falsely Page 6 of 18 Downloaded on : Tue Oct 10 20:36:42 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/7011/2023 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/10/2023

 undefined

implicated in the present offence. It is also revealed from the
CDR that on two occasions, present applicant-accused had
talked with Gurmitsing for four minutes and both the times,
Gurmitsinh has made phone call to the present applicant and
as per the recording, he has said that Tarun was not
responding. viii) The investigation is completed and as per the materials
available on record, it is found out that the present applicant-
accused has not played any active role or participated in the
crime which was designed by Vikas Jain and Hitesh Kotadiya.
The applicant-accused has acted as a normal businessman
with sole purpose to get commission by assigning work to the
owner of the printing press with whom he has good
connections. The applicant-accused has not received any
amount from any other accused and he has also not played
any role in committing cheating with the customers/clients. It
is submitted that if entire allegations and accusations levelled
against the present applicant-accused in the compilation of the
charge-sheet papers are to be read as it is, the ingredients of Sections 489A , 489B , 489C , 489D , 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 and 120B of the IPC are not spelt out, and in the absence of any mens
rea, the present applicant-accused cannot be put behind the
bar for an indefinite period. ix) Learned advocate Mr. Barot has submitted that the
record of the charge-sheet papers is very bulky and
voluminous containing 2100 pages and there are around 200
witnesses shown in the charge-sheet. The said fact shows that
trial would take considerable long period of time to conclude Page 7 of 18 Downloaded on : Tue Oct 10 20:36:42 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/7011/2023 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/10/2023

 undefined

and upto that period,the present applicant-accused cannot be
put behind the bar without any fault in his part and the said
amounts to pretrial conviction. 4. Learned advocate Mr. Barot has submitted that if the
Hon'ble Court would take judicial note after making cursory
glance upon the fake currency notes, in that event, it would be
found out that on the front side of the notes, it is clearly
stated that 'Reverse Bank of India' instead of 'Reserve Bank of
India'. It is also stated that this is designed only for the
purpose of toy game and, therefore, the present applicant-
accused has bona fidely acted upon the work entrusted to him
for printing the said notes and the said notes which are said to
be fake currency notes are also easily available in the market
and can also be purchased through online shopping and by
pushing single button of the mobile, one can find the similar
kind of series of different designed fake currency notes which
are used for the purpose of playing games and sold openly in
the market through online shopping apps like Amazon, Flipcart
etc. within the knowledge of one and all. Learned advocate Mr. Barot has submitted that the age
of the present applicant-accused is 42 years. He is a married
man having two children, aged about 11 years and 15 years
respectively. The applicant is also shouldering the
responsibility of his old parents who are aged about 70 years
and 65 years respectively and he is the only son of his parents.
The father of the applicant was indulged in the business of
printing press and applicant has also joined the said business
running in the name and style as Sanchi Printing Press. The Page 8 of 18 Downloaded on : Tue Oct 10 20:36:42 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/7011/2023 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/10/2023

 undefined

said press was closed down during Covid-19 and, thereafter,
the applicant started doing job work of printing by taking
orders and forwarding it to the other printers. Learned
advocate Mr. Barot has also submitted that the present
applicant has been made a scapegoat by his brother-in-law
who has been shown as an absconding accused by the
Investigating Officer. 5. In such circumstances, referred to above, Mr. Barot prays
that there being merit in this application, the same be allowed
and the present applicant-accused may be enlarged on bail. 6. On the other hand, this application has been vehemently
opposed by learned APP Ms.Maithili Mehta appearing for the
State. Learned APP Ms.Mehta has submitted that the present
applicant-accused has actively participated in the commission
of the crime and the said fact is clearly found out from the
contents of the charge-sheet papers. It is submitted that the
present applicant-accused was doing the printing work and
earlier he was the owner of one printing press and, therefore,
he had good connections and contacts in the printing market.
It is found out from the record that the present applicant-
accused has accepted the order from the co-accused and the
said work was entrusted to the other printing press owners, i.e,
accused Sagir Ahmed who is the owner of Wing Marketing and
Rahul Verma, who is the owner of BM Software. Learned APP
has further submitted that it is found out from the record that
the present applicant-accused hatched a criminal conspiracy
with the other co-accused persons, out of which, certain
accused persons are still not arrested and they have been Page 9 of 18 Downloaded on : Tue Oct 10 20:36:42 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/7011/2023 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/10/2023

 undefined

declared as absconding accused. A systematic plan is designed
with an intention to damage the economy of the Country by
creating, printing, generating, circulating fake currency notes
in a huge volume and present applicant-accused has played
pivotal role in execution of the said plan. 7. Learned APP Ms. Mehta has submitted that it is found out
from the investigation that the accused persons have printed
fake currency notes worth Rs.334 Crores and odd of different
denomination. The present applicant-accused has printed
slides of fake new currency notes of Rs.2000/- and Rs.500/-
denominations notes and counterfeited previously cancelled
Indian currency notes of Rs.1000/- and Rs.500/-
denominations. The present applicant-accused along with Sagir
Ahmed-Wings Marketing and Rahul Verma BM Software had
printed huge number of fake currency notes with a sole
intention to destabilize the economy of the Country and he has
earned Rs.8,00,000/- from the said work. The present
applicant-accused has sent the design of currency notes
denomination of Rs.2000/500 of the new currency and
Rs.1000/- and sent it to the other owners of the printing press
through e-mail and given order to print the same. The said
evidence crystalized the situation that the present applicant
accused is kingpin in establishing the links of chain. Learned
APP has also submitted that the Investigating Officer has
forwarded the samples of the said currency notes to the office
of the RBI to verify the veracity of the said notes and have
received report from the Assistant General Manager, RBI
purportedly stating that we are of the opinion that the sample Page 10 of 18 Downloaded on : Tue Oct 10 20:36:42 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/7011/2023 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/10/2023

 undefined

notes are not genuine. The captioned notes can be
characterized as low quality FICNs and based upon absence of
security features like watermark security, security thread and
opined that at first glance it may resembles as original
currency notes. It is opined by the RBI that in the original
2000/- currency notes, the Government of India has put 17
norms and in the present fake currency notes, 14 norms are
found to be exactly similar to the original notes. 8. Learned APP Ms. Mehta has further submitted that Tarun
Gautam is the real brother-in-law of the present applicant-
accused and he is absconder. The Investigating Officer has
tried his level best to catch the said accused but could not
succeed in their attempt as the location of the said accused is
not traced out and with the help of the said accused, the
present applicant-accused has designed a systematic plan with
a sole intention to destabilize the economy of the Country by
circulating fake currency notes in the market and with a sole
purpose to get out from the clutches of the law, he has
mentioned that the said notes are only for the purpose of
shooting as well as instead of 'Reserve Bank of India' it is
mentioned as 'Reverse Bank of India'. Learned APP has also
submitted that if the Hon'ble Court would make cursory glance
upon the copy of the said currency notes which is also placed
on record, in that event, at the first instance, one cannot be
able to identify that the present currency notes are fake one.
The size, font and colour of the notes are similar and
deceptive in nature and one can easily fall in the trap of the
accused by believing the said notes as original and genuine Page 11 of 18 Downloaded on : Tue Oct 10 20:36:42 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/7011/2023 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/10/2023

 undefined

one. Learned APP has further submitted that for a moment if
the arguments canvassed by learned advocate Mr. Barot is
believed to be true and genuine that the said currency notes
are printed with a sole purpose for playing games for the kids,
the same is not believable and palatable because during the
course of investigation, the Investigating Officer has recovered
the fake currency notes from the different places in a
concealed condition. Not only that, none of the accused
persons are directly or indirectly connected with the business
of toy games of the notes and, therefore, there is sufficient
evidence against the present applicant-accused and, therefore,
he cannot be released on bail in the present case wherein the
volume of the amount involved in the scam is of huge
magnitude which would directly effect the economy of the
country. 9. Learned APP Ms. Mehta has also submitted that during
the course of investigation, it is also found out that the huge
quantity of fake currency notes are recovered from the
different centers like Delhi, Bombay, Ahmedabad etc. of the
Country and also from the offices of the concerned co-accused
in a concealed condition and, therefore, it can safely be said
that there was a big plan to destabilize the economy of the
Country by circulating fake currency notes in a huge volume. 10. In such circumstances, referred to above, the learned APP
prays that there being no merit in this application, the same be
rejected. 11. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the Page 12 of 18 Downloaded on : Tue Oct 10 20:36:42 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/7011/2023 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/10/2023

 undefined

parties and having considered the materials on record, the
only question that falls for my consideration is whether
discretion should be exercised in favour of the applicant-
herein. 12. Before adverting to the facts of the case, it is important
to understand the extent of the power of the High Court to
grant bail and the factors determining nature and gravity of
the crime in order to grant bail to accused concerned. As
rightly stated by Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer "the issue of bail is
one of liberty, justice, public safety and burden of the public
treasury, all of which insist that a developed jurisprudence of
bail is integral to a socially sensitized

Principles governing grant of bail 13. Section 439 of the Cr.P.C is the guiding principle for
adjudicating a Regular Bail Application wherein Court has to
take into consideration several aspects. The jurisdiction to
grant bail has to be exercised cautiously on the basis of well-
settled principles having regard to the facts and circumstances
of each case. 14. In Prahlad Singh Bhati Vs. NCT of Delhi And Another ,
reported in (2001) 4 SCC 280 , a two-Judge Bench of the
Supreme Court has stated the principles which are to be
considered while granting bail which are as follows : - 15. As reiterated by the two-Judge Bench of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court Court in Prasanta Kumar Sarkar Vs. Ashish
Chatterjee And Another , reported in (2010) 14 SCC 496, it is
well-settled that the factors to be borne in mind while
considering an application for bail are: NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/7011/2023 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/10/2023

 undefined (v) character, behaviour, means, position and standing of the
accused; (vi) likelihood of the offence being repeated; (vii) reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being
influenced; and viii) danger, of course, of justice being thwarted by grant of
bail. 16. In Ram Govind Upadhyay Vs. Sudarshan Singh ,
reported in (2002) 3 SCC 598, the Hon'ble Apex Court has
observed thus; 17. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Mahipal Vs. Rajesh
Kumar Alias Polia And Another , (2020) 2 SCC 118 has
observed as under :- 18. Now coming to the present case at hand, the present
applicant accused, the case put forward by learned advocate
Mr. Barot is that the present applicant is a inter-mediator only
who had forwarded the emails and messages received from
Tarun Gautam (absconding accused) to the other co-accused.
However, it appears from the police papers and the
Panchnama that the present applicant accused himself has
composed the email of order for printing the fake currency
notes, attaching the sheet of the digital print of the fake
currency notes to be printed and sent the same from his email
ID being ' [email protected] ' to the other co-accused, Page 16 of 18 Downloaded on : Tue Oct 10 20:36:42 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/7011/2023 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/10/2023

 undefined

namely, Sagir Ahmed of Wings Marketing and Rahul Verma of
BM Software. Moreover, the police papers also shows and
suggests that some fake currency notes seized by the police
are bearing the same serial numbers as mentioned on the
digital print of the fake currency notes, which were sent in the
sheets by the present applicant-accused to the aforesaid two
co-accused for printing the notes. The aforesaid fact clearly
establish the strong prima facie case against the present
applicant-accused and also indicates that there was a pre-
planned conspiracy hatched by the present applicant-accused
along with the other co-accused persons. It is the settled
principle that a conspiracy is always hatched in secrecy and it
is impossible to adduce direct evidence of the same. It also
appears from the record that the learned advocate for the
applicant has not produced any evidence indicating that the
said order was received by the applicant from his brother-in-
law Tarun Gautam, and he in turn, forwarded the same to the
other co-accused. 19. It is also to be noted here that in the report of the RBI, it
is clearly mentioned that at first glance it may resembles as
original currency notes, however, it is not the genuine currency
notes. The design, fonts and colour of the said fake currency
notes are made in such a manner that it would be very
difficult for a layman to identify the difference between the
fake currency notes and the original notes. It also appears
from the affidavit of the concerned Investigating Officer that
the fake currency notes which have been seized in the present
case are worth Rs.334,78,04,000/-. It also appears from the Page 17 of 18 Downloaded on : Tue Oct 10 20:36:42 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/7011/2023 JUDGMENT DATED: 06/10/2023

 undefined

record that all the fake currency notes are yet not recovered
and if the applicant-accused herein is released on bail, there
are all possible chances that he may hide or transport the said
notes or may tamper or destroy the evidence of the
prosecution. It is also to be noted that the present applicant-
accused is not the local resident and, therefore, there are also
probabilities of his being absconded. Thus, having regard to
the nature and gravity of the offence, the mode and manner in
which the offence is being committed and the role attributed
to the present applicant-accused as also in view of the high
probabilities of tampering with the evidence of the
prosecution as well as being absconded, I am not inclined to
exercise discretion in favour of the applicant-accused. 20. Having considered the aforesaid facts of the present
case in juxtaposition with the judgments referred to above , I
am of the opinion that the present bail application deserves to
be rejected. 21. In the result, this application fails and is hereby rejected.
Rule is discharged. (DIVYESH A. JOSHI,J)

VAHID Page 18 of 18 Downloaded on : Tue Oct 10 20:36:42 IST 2023