The instant criminal appeal is directed against the judgment and order of

 conviction dated 28.04.2011 and 29.04.2011 passed by the learned

 Additional Sessions Judge, Fast Track Court 1, Dinhata, Coochbehar in

 Sessions Trial No. 5(IX)/2010 arising out of Sessions Case No. 177/2010

 convicting the appellant under Sections 489B and 489C of the Indian Penal

 Code, 1860. 2. By the impugned Judgment the appellant was found guilty under Section

 489B and 489C of the Penal Code and sentenced to suffer 3 years and 3

 months rigorous imprisonment under Section 489B of the IPC and 3 years

 and 3 months under Section 489C of the IPC, to run concurrently and with

 fine of Rs.3000/- and fine of Rs.3000/- with a default clause. 3. The prosecution case in brief is that on 30.08.2009, while the P.W. 1, ASI

 Gopal Chandra Mondal, was on mobile duty, he received information from

 sources, that a fake currency transaction was taking place in the midnight

 at Sahebganj Bazar at Dinhata in Coochbehar district. 4. The said P.W. 1, thereupon, went to Sahebganj Bazar at Dinhata and

 found the appellant, Jagannath Saha @ Rinku detained by local persons

 who complained that, the appellant-accused transacted a fake currency

 while paying the price of the jute that he bought from P.W. 4, Sanjoy

 Sarkar on the Friday immediately before. 5. The said PW 1 conducted a physical search of the body of the appellant

 and recovered 5 notes vide no. 5BS - 661192, 5BS - 670120, 5BS -

 670112, 5BS - 669266 and 5AH - 583001 of denomination of Rs.500/-

 each, allegedly in Indian Currency and the said notes were seized, in

 presence of the P.W. 4 and 5. The said notes were fake according to the

 PW 1. 6. A seizure list was stated to have been prepared whereupon the appellant

 was arrested, and brought from the Sahebganj Bazar to the local B.S.F.

 Camp and then to Dinhata Police Station at about 3/3:30 hours in the

 night on 30/31.08.2009. 7. The F.I.R. was registered at about 12.20 P.M. on 31.08.2009. The accused

 was produced before the learned Magistrate concerned only on 01.09.2009

 was ordered to be kept in Judicial Custody of 15 days. The police had
 prayed for 3 days of Police Custody which was declined since the I.O. was

 not present in Court, nor was the Case Diary produced. 8. The charge was framed on 10.09.2010.The prosecution examined the

 following witnesses :- 9. P.W. 1, the A.S.I., Gopal Ch. Mondal, the complainant deposed that he

 was posted as duty officer in respect of the above incident and in the

 midnight of 30th / 31st August, 2009 one person was detained by the local

 villagers. He immediately rushed to the spot at Sahebganj Bazar and

 found the appellant detained by local people. After that he conducted a

 search of the body of the appellant. He further stated that 5 such fake

 currency notes were recovered from the pocket of appellant by the Police.

 P.W. 1 further deposed that he interrogated the appellant whereupon he

 was informed that the appellant procured the notes from his brother

 Subrata Saha @ Tinku for using the same as genuine. The seizure list,
 according to him, was prepared in accordance with law. The minor

 irregularities in delay lodging of the F.I.R. cannot be fatal to a proceeding

 under Section 489 of the Penal Code. He further stated that he identified

 in Court the said notes that bore the signature of appellant on the reverse

 side. He deposed that he arrested the appellant at about 00:30 A.M. on

 that day and registered an FIR at the Dinhata Police Station at 2:00 PM.

 The appellant was produced before the Magistrate on the next date on

 01.09.2009. He stated that the seizure list was prepared on the place of

 occurrence and that he did not seal or label the seized notes. 10. PW 2, Manju Saha who is a cultivator, turned hostile during examination

 by the prosecution at the trial-stage. She denied any personal knowledge

 of the incident. She had heard that someone was apprehended a year back

 for using forged and counterfeit notes to pay for jute bought at the Bazar.

 She had gone to Dinhata Police Station for her personal work when the

 police asked her to sign on some blank papers but she refused. She was

 not interrogated by the police nor gave any statement. She deposed in

 cross-examination, that the bazar closes at 7:00 pm. 11. All cultivators bring their jute to the market to sell it to brokers like PW 3

 who in-turn sell it to persons like the appellant. 12. PW 3 Shyamal Das was another cultivator. The appellant and his brother

 Tinku are known to him. They are his neighbours. He sold jute to them in

 the year 2009for which price was paid. He specifically mentioned that the
 bazar remains operative on every Friday and Sunday. He had bought the

 jute on Friday and sold it to the appellant-accused and another person at

 Dinhata, who in turn paid him the price for the goods instantly. He later

 detected that one of the 500/- notes was forged and confronted the

 appellant-accused on Sunday, who denied the same. He thereafter

 informed his fellow jute-sellers who then informed the police. He did not

 give any statement to the police. He denied having told the police that five

 fake 500 Indian currency notes were given by the appellant to him. He

 also denied that he asked the appellant to replace the give notes to valid

 currency notes. He admitted that the appellant told him that he got the

 currency notes from his brother Tinku. He deposed that the appellant was

 arrested on Sunday, the 31st of August, 2009 and firstly taken to the local

 B.S.F. Camp and arrested and thereafter taken to Dinhata P.S. He was

 declared hostile by the prosecution. 13. PW 4, Sanjay Sarkar, was a businessman and was acting as a broker. He

 knew the appellant and his brother. He had no personal knowledge of the

 incident. He was declared hostile by the prosecution. 14. He stated that when he visited Dinhata Police Station for personal work

 when he was asked to sign on a blank paper by the police that was later

 converted into a seizure list. In respect of one forged 500 rupee note, vide

 no. 5AH583001; exhibited as Exbt. 1/1, he identified his signature

 thereon. The police did not interrogate him or record any statement. 15. He denied having stated anything to the police as regards the incident or

 the arrest of the appellant and his brother. He also denied that he signed

 the seizure list after going through the contents. He further stated that

 while signing a blank paper the police did not inform him from where and

 from whom one fake currency note of 500 rupee was recovered. He stated

 that he was accompanied to the Dinhata P.S. by P.W. 5, Dilip Kumar Roy,

 Ex-Gram Panchayat Pradhan. 16. PW 5, Dilip Kumar Roy is a cultivator and Ex-Gram Panchayat Pradhan.

 He had no personal knowledge of the incident. He went to Dinhata P.S. on

 31st August, 2009 when on the instruction of the police, he signed a blank

 paper that was subsequently converted into a seizure list. He did not give

 any statement to the police. He was declared hostile by the prosecution.

 He denied any knowledge of the incident or giving of fake notes by the

 appellant and his brother Subrata Saha @ Tinku to Shyamal Das (PW 3). 17. PW 6, Nirmal Roy is another cultivator who knew the appellant and his

 brother. He had no personal knowledge of the incident. He did not give

 any statement to the police. He was declared hostile by the prosecution. In

 defence cross examination he stated that his residence is 4-5 kms away

 from the place of occurrence. 18. PW 7, Tapas Adhikari is a cultivator. He also had no personal knowledge

 of the incident and did not give any statement to the police. He was
 declared hostile. In defence cross examination he further states that his

 residence is 7 kms away from the place of occurrence. 19. PW 8, SI Hemant Kr. Sharma is the Investigating Officer. He identified

 the FIR signed by Kartik Bhattacharya, S.I. of Police. He took up the

 investigation of the case under Section 489B and 489C of the IPC. He

 collected the seized articles alongwith seizure list and visited the place of

 occurrence and prepared a sketch map and index. He also stated that he

 recorded the statements of witnesses under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. He

 examined the seizure witnesses and recorded their statements under Section 161 and also examined the accused persons. He took them in

 three days of police custody but nothing was recovered from them. He sent

 the seized forged notes to the Government Press at Nasik to seek an expert

 opinion and obtained the same. The expert opinion report of the

 Government Press at Nasik was exhibited. He further stated that he

 examined a constable who went to Nasik and recorded his statement. He

 reiterated that Manju Saha PW 2 was present when the appellant was

 arrested for trying to pay PW 3 with five forged 500 rupee notes. He also

 asserted that Shyamal Das (PW-3) told him that on 31st August, 2009 he

 sold jute to the appellant and received five fake notes of 500 rupees each.

 He stated that Shyamal Das told him that he asked the appellant to replace

 the same to genuine notes. He asserted that Sanjay Sarkar (PW-3) told

 him that the appellant paid the price of jute to Shyamal Das PW 3 with five

 fake currency notes. He also asserted that Dilip Kumar Roy (PW 5) had
 informed him that the appellant purchased jute from Shyamal Das and

 paid the same with five fake 500 rupee notes. On interrogation he came to

 know from the appellant that the latter received the fake notes from his

 brother, Tinku. He also asserted that Nirmal Roy (PW-4) and Tapas

 Adhikari (PW-7) also told him of the incident just like PW 2, 3 and 4, had

 told him. He identified the seized fake currency notes on which he had

 signed. He had no personal knowledge of the seizure list or the factum of

 the seizure. He re-arrested the appellant at the police station but could not

 say when and how the appellant was originally arrested. In defence cross

 examination he stated further he has not seized the notes in question. 20. In the examination under Section 313 the appellant admitted that he

 purchased jute from Shyamal Das (PW-3) but did not pay him with fake

 notes. He was also confronted that he had asked the appellant to replace

 the fake notes with genuine ones. He said that he was innocent. He

 admitted being detained by the local people at about 00:50 hrs., on 31st

 August, 2009 but stated he was innocent. On being asked that after he

 made payment for the jute in fake Indian currency, the PW 1 searched him

 and found five fake Indian currency notes which were seized in the

 presence of witnesses Sanjay Sarkar, Dilip Kumar Roy and that the

 appellant admitted that he obtained the fake notes from his brother Tinku.

 He replied that no fake currency was recovered from his pocket and that no

 seizure list was prepared in his presence on the date and time. He denied
 having said that he procured the fake Indian currency from his brother and

 stated that he is innocent. 21. The Trial Judge found that in the year 2009 PW 3 Shyamal Das sold jute to

 the appellant and the price of jute was paid. One of the notes of

 denomination of Rs.500/- was found to be fake. The Trial Judge believed

 the evidence of PW 1 that he arrived at the place of occurrence was told by

 Shyamal Das of the incident and that the price of the jute paid with one

 fake currency note. The Trail Judge also found that PW 1 upon searching

 the appellant in person found five other fake 500 rupee notes on the

 person of the appellant. The said notes were exhibited and the signature of

 the appellant on the said notes was identified and exhibited. One note also

 bore the signature of PW 4 Sanjay Sarkar and PW 5 Dilip Kumar Roy. The

 seizure list was also exhibited and the signature of the appellant thereto

 and that of the PW 4 and 5 were identified. He, however, recorded that PW

 4 and 5 had signed on blank paper which was subsequently converted in

 seizure list. The same was mere irregularity according to the Trial Judge.

 He relied upon the prosecution testimony of PW 8 since the seized notes

 bore the signatures of PW 4 and 5. The Court also noted that the FIR was

 registered nearly 10 ½ hrs. after the arrest of the appellant and his

 brother. Reliance was heavily placed on the evidence of PW 1 and 8. The

 possession of the fake currency notes on the person of the appellant was

 also proved. 22. On the question of mens rea of the appellant in trafficking and possession

 of the said fake currency notes despite knowledge that they were fake, the

 Trial Court held that since the defence has not stated that the accused was

 not aware of the fakeness/counterfeit of the said currency notes, the Trial

 Judge held that the accused had knowledge and was fully aware that the

 appellant was in possession of fake notes and hence, mens rea was

 established. 23. Based on such finding the Court below found the appellant guilty of

 offences under Section 489B and 489Cof the I.P.C. and convicted him for 3

 years and 3 months of rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs.3000/- for

 offence under Section 489B and another 3 years and 3 months of

 imprisonment and a fine of Rs.3000/- for offence under Section 489C of

 the IPC. The order of sentences was to run concurrently. 24. Learned Counsel for the appellant would argue that the entire case of the

 prosecution and the finding of the Trial Judge was based on the evidence of

 PW 1 and PW 8 only since PW 2 to PW 7 had turned hostile. There is

 some substance in the argument of the appellant. There are too many

 irregularities in the conduct of the investigation. Firstly whether the PW 1

 acted on a tip off from sources and visited the spot or whether he acted on

 being informed by the other traders at the Sahebganj market. It is difficult

 to believe the reasons for the accused to be detained at 12:30 AM, in the

 morning, by locals, when the bazar closes at 7:00 PM, the previous day.
 The reasons for the same have not come on record or elicited from the

 evidence of PW 1 to PW 8. There are, however, mere irregularities and

 cannot by themselves be fatal to the case of the prosecution. 25. The appellant would next argue that since Shyamal Das PW 3 did not lodge

 complaint despite receiving one forged 500 rupee note and there was no

 independent witness to prove the transaction of sale of jute no offence

 under Section 489B of trafficking of counterfeit notes could have been laid

 much less proved against the appellant. This Court, however, finds that

 PW 3 in no uncertain terms narrated the entire transaction of sale of jute

 between himself and the appellant. PW 4 also admitted that one of the

 currency notes having a denomination of Rs.500 was fake. The question,

 therefore, emerges as to why PW 3 did not lodge a formal complaint with

 the police unless he believed that the giving of one fake currency note was

 unintentional and without mala fides. 26. But P.W. 1 has stated that on his arrival with his team at the place of

 occurrence, i.e., Sahebganj Bazar in Dinhata, Coochbehar, he found the

 appellant-accused in custody of the locals, who complained that, the

 appellant-accused had transacted a fake currency while paying the price of

 the jute that he bought from P.W. 3, viz., Sanjoy Sarkar. 27. On searching the body of the appellant P.W. 1 found 5 currency notes vide

 no. 5BS - 661192, 5BS - 670120, 5BS - 670112, 5BS - 669266 and 5AH -
 583001 and the said notes were seized, in presence of the P.W. 4 and 5;

 who later on turned hostile during evidence and have deposed that:- 28. It is, therefore, worth noting and clearly depicted that, although the two

 seizure witnesses have only identified the signatures on the seizure list,

 they have not denied that they were present at the place of occurrence.

 While it may be true that the seizure lists were prepared subsequently, the

 seizure of the fake notes and the signatures on them by the PW 3 and 4

 had taken place at the place of occurrence. There is no evidence contrary

 to this. Section 489B of the Penal Code reads as follows: 29. Section 489C of the IPC reads as follows: 30. This Court is of the view that the incident of sale of jute and receipt of one

 fake currency note by PW 3 has established the offence of trafficking under Section 489B . The possession of the fake currency notes and recovery

 thereof from the appellant has also been established under Section 489C .

 But the mere possession of fake currency notes of even using them to

 traffic by itself will not constitute the offence under Section 489B and 489C of the IPC. The mens rea to possess and traffic the same needs to be

 established and determined. It would be useful to refer the dicta laid down

 by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in this regard; at, delivered on 10th May,

 2018in the case of Shabbir Sheikh Vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh,

 CRA 162 of 2015, Paragraph 9 of the Judgment is set out hereinunder: knowing or having reason to believe the same to be forged or
 counterfeit") which are the essential ingredients to constitute the
 offence under Sections 489-B and 489-C have to be proved by the
 prosecution. A reference has also been made to the judgment
 passed in the case of M.Mammutti Vs. State of Karnataka (1979)4
 SCC 723 in support of their arguments that a mere recovery of
 currency notes from them would itself not be sufficient to prove the
 offence where the prosecution has not shown that the appellants
 had knowledge or reason to believe that the notes were counterfeit
 and therefore, the conviction in the case of M.Mammutti (supra)
 was set aside." 31. In the case of Umashanker v. State of Chhattisgarh , reported in(2001) 9
 SCC 642 at Paragraph 7 and 8, the Hon'ble Apex Court held as follows: (Emphasis added) 32. In the case of M. Mammutti v. State of Karnataka , reported in (1979) 4

 SCC 723, the Hon'ble Apex Court held as follows: (Emphasis added) 33. It is now settled that from the aforesaid Umashankar and M. Mammutti

 decisions (supra) that mens rea cannot be presumed. However, what

 needs to be determined is as to whether mens rea can be ascertained from

 the evidence on record. 34. In the Shabbir Sheikh case (supra),at Para 12 the provisions contained

 in Sections 106 and 114(h) of the Evidence Act have been referred to. The

 relevant paragraph is set out hereinunder: 35. It is evident from the above that it was the duty of the defence, who had the

 special knowledge as to where he received the fake currency and what was

 the course of action in which he received the same etc., and such other

 chain of circumstances that would prove absence of knowledge as to the

 fakeness of the currency notes. 36. The appellant was confronted in course of examination under 313 that

 counterfeit notes were found from him and that he had used such note to

 pay for the jute purchased from PW 3. The appellant did not say that he

 had no knowledge that the notes were counterfeit. He only said that he

 was innocent. He said that he received the currency notes from his brother

 Tinku. It was, therefore, in the exclusive personal knowledge of the

 appellant-accused whether he knew that the notes were counterfeit or not.

 Hence, the knowledge of the appellant-accused that the notes were fake

 can be imputed to the appellant. It must also be seen that the appellant-

 accused was a regular trader in jute at the Sahebganj market, capable of
 entering into a contract as per the Indian Contract Act, 1872 . He,

 therefore, must be deemed to know fake note from a genuine one. 37. Counsel for the appellant next argued that the Nasik Press Report that the

 currency was fake, was not confronted to him and hence incriminatory

 evidence against him was not shown to him and hence there was a mistrial

 amounting to gross miscarriage of justice. 38. He relied upon the following decisions. 39. This Court is of the view that the u/s 313 of the Cr.P.C. the appellant was

 duly confronted with the suggestion that he was found paying for jute with

 fake currency and also that 5 fake currency notes were recovered from him

 by the police at the time of his arrest. The same accordingly constitutes

 sufficient compliance of the Section 313 of Cr.P.C. The mere fact that the

 Nashik Press Report was not confronted to him under Section 313 cannot

 mean that the accused was not confronted with incriminating facts and
 evidences against him. The argument of the counsel for the appellant

 cannot thus be accepted. 40. For the reasons stated hereinabove this Court is of the view that the

 impugned judgement cannot be faulted and must be upheld. 41. The appeal must therefore fail and is hereby dismissed. The appellant shall

 be taken into custody and must serve the sentence awarded to him. 42. There shall, however, be no order as to costs. 43. Urgent Photostat Certified server copy of this judgment, if applied for, be

 supplied to the parties on urgent basis. (Rajasekhar Mantha, J.)