Judgment / Order
REPORTABLE

 07/12/2017

 Heard. By way of this petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C., the

 petitioners herein have approached this Court for assailing the

 F.I.R. No. 166/2015 registered at Pipar City District Jodhpur Rural

 for the offences under Section 420 , 463 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 474 (2 of 9)
 [CRLMP-3152/2015]

and 120B IPC and all proceedings sought to be taken in

furtherance thereof. Facts in brief are that Ramvilas s/o Shri Mahadev owned two

plots of residential land in the Pipar City bearing no. 16/53 and

16/54. Ramvilas expired on 24.1.1997. Ramniwas brother of

Ramvilas submitted an application supported by an affidavit

before the Executive Officer, Municipality Pipar City for transferring

both plots in his name mentioning in the affidavit that Ramvilas

had expired intestate. An enquiry was allegedly made by the

Municipal Body into the assertions made by Ramniwas in the

application and executed a certificate of ownership to Ramniwas

on 2.7.1999. Ramniwas, in turn executed a power of attorney to

Omprakash petitioner no.2 herein, thereby authorising him to

transact both the plots. Omprakash executed agreements to sell

the plots in favour of Laxman Singh, Hanuman Ram and Chotta

Devi his own wife. When reluctance was shown in executing the

agreement, Laxman Singh filed a civil suit for specific performance

of the sale agreement in the Court of learned Addl. Dist. &

Sessions Judge No. 3 (FT), Jodhpur. The said suit was decreed on

28.7.2004 and in pursuance of the decree, a registered sale deed

of the land in question was executed in favour of Laxman Singh by

the Court Reader. Respondent Padam Singh claiming himself to be

the son of Shri Ramvilas filed a suit for cancellation of the said

sale deed executed in favour of the petitioners Laxman Singh,

Chotta Devi and Hanuman Ram in the Court of learned District

Judge, Jodhpur in the year 2008. A specific averment was made in

the plaint that Ramniwas acted with an intention to cheat Padam
 (3 of 9)
 [CRLMP-3152/2015]

Singh and got a fraudulent certificate of ownership issued for both

the plots in his own name while concealing the fact that Padam

Singh being the legal heir of Ramvilas was still alive. During

course of the arguments, Mr. Maheshwari has placed on record a

copy of the judgment dated 25.10.2016 passed by learned District

Judge, Jodhpur whereby the said suit was dismissed on the

ground that Padam Singh never appeared in the Court to prove his

bonafides. Till date, the said judgment is in force. Padam Singh

through SherMohd. his power of attorney, proceeded to file a

complaint against the present petitioners in the Court of Addl.

Chief Judicial Magistrate, Bilara in the year 2015 alleging inter-alia

that the entire transaction of transferring the plots undertaken

between the parties was fraudulent and was based on forged

documents. The said complaint was forwarded to the Police

Station Pipar City for investigation under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C.

where F.I.R. No. 166/2015 was registered for the offences under Sections 420 , 463 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 474 and 120B IPC against

the present petitioners and Ramniwas who reportedly has expired

way back in the year 2009 and against a few others. The

petitioners have approached this Court by way of the instant misc.

petition seeking quashing of further proceedings of the said F.I.R.

to their extent. Learned Public Prosecutor has submitted a detailed factual

report of the I.O. who is present in the Court. It is categorically

stated in the factual report that the petitioners Laxman Singh,

Chotta Devi and Hanuman Ram are the bonafide purchasers of the

property and thus, they are not responsible for any of the
 (4 of 9)
 [CRLMP-3152/2015]

offences. The I.O. has found proved the offences under Sections

420 , 467 , 468 and 471 IPC against Ramniwas and Omprakash

with the finding that Ompraksh sold the property in a hasty

manner to his wife and Hanuman Ram and thus he is also

responsible for these offences. Learned counsel Mr. Muktesh Maheshwari representing the

petitioner vehemently urged that ex-facie from the bare perusal of

the allegations set out in the highly belated complaint submitted

by Sher Mohd., the power of attorney holder of Padam Singh, it is

apparent that the allegations levelled therein do not constitute any

offence whatsoever. He contends that there is no dispute about

the fact that the certificate of ownership of the disputed plot was

issued by the Municipality, Pipar City to Ramniwas in the year

1999. The said certificate has not been challenged in any Court of

law till date. Omprakash acted bonafide in furtherance of the

power of attorney executed in his name by Ramniwas and sold the

property to Hanuman Ram whereas Laxman Singh got title to the

land through execution of the decree of specific performance. He

thus urges that allowing continuance of the proceedings of the

impugned F.I.R. against the petitioners is nothing short of a gross

abuse of the process of law. He further urged that Padam Singh

admittedly came to know of the so called fraud way back in the

year 2008 when he filed suit no. 148/11(49/08) referred to above.

He urges there is no justification for the gross and inadvertent

delay in launching prosecution. He contends that Padam Singh

never came forward personally to challenge any of the disputed

transactions. As a matter of fact Sher Mohd. and Sajjan Raj who
 (5 of 9)
 [CRLMP-3152/2015]

are land sharks are acting behind the scenes so as to wrest the

valuable plots from their lawful owners by lodging frivolous cases.

He thus urges that the entire proceedings of the impugned F.I.R.

should be quashed while accepting this misc. petition. Per contra learned P.P. assisted by the I.O. and Mr. S.S.Jodha

learned counsel representing the complainant Padam Singh

vehemently opposed the submissions advanced by the petitioners'

counsel. They contend that Omprakash got the power of attorney

fraudulently executed knowing very well that Padam Singh being

the sole successor of Ramvilas and the lawful owner of the land

was alive. He then hastily executed the agreements to sell off the

plots to his own wife and two other purchasers and thereby

committed the offences attributed to him. With these assertions

they implored the Court to dismiss the instant misc. petition. I have given my thoughtful consideration to the arguments

advanced by learned counsel Mr. Muktesh Maheshwari, learned P.P.

assisted by I.O. and the learned counsel Mr. S.S.Jodha

representing the respondent complainant Padam Singh and have

gone through the impugned F.I.R. as well as the other documents

placed on record so also the case diary. Following facts are undisputed from the material available on

record:- The language of the order dated 25.10.2016 passed by

learned District Judge, Jodhpur whereby the suit of Padam Singh

was dismissed is relevant for deciding the controversy at hand

and is reproduced hereinbelow for the sake of ready reference:-