after observing eo many unscrupulous Pansactions should have been able to alert the customers
or could have siopped transaction in the account afler few numbers of continuous transactions
which were unusual in nature by informing the account holder about iis authenticity through
available channels. in case of reat hanking system for wrong use of credentials for foa@qing Inte
internet bank account for consecutively for three tries, the system automatically disables the
account for 24 hre and activate the account only after accurate details oan be provided by the

cuatotier

8} Based on ihe lag report submitted by the appellant bank, it was evident that bank was
aware of non delivery of SMS of transaction details to the designated mobile of the account
holder N would have been prudent on the part af the bank to inform the account hoider about the
non delivery of SMS continuously during the period when such unusual fraud transactions were
happening. The negigence on the part of the bank ta infarm the account holder and lack of
assessment capability of financial frauds happening In his account over the period are rnajor

deficiency of ihe banking system of SBI, which contributed towards these fraudulent transactions. {iv} hag been observed that all the deti-traud transactions was conducted by outsiders or
thin] party using various e-commerce / payment gateway websites such ag flipkari.com,
SNazcai.cam, moneymini.com, fastticket.com, nearbuy.carn, chargedujn etc. in this case, the
account holder should have absolufaly no liability in circumstances where the bogus /
uriguthorised transaction occurs because of the carelessness. of the banking system, which is a

clear indication of contributory negligence of the banking system for this fraud to happen. iv} Further there is a debit of an arnount of As.1,34,500/- oy the SBI, Golaghat by way of
providing averrafi faciity in the respondent account as the fraudster carried transactions beyond
ihe available balance saving arrunt, whereas the respandant did not avail any facility of overdraft
or cash credit firnit in his saving account . NH indicates that fraudster activated such overdraft or
cash credit limit an thie account and carriad iransantions. The inability of bank to prevent the
fransactions fo the tune of another Ae.114,5004 by the fraudster when the respondent saving

account was axhausted appears to be case of possible contributory fraud / negligence. We, find no good reason to deviaie from the impugned order passed by Learheci

Adjudicating Officer, there Is no infirmity or illegality in the impugned order warranting our

interference thus the sak] Cyber appeal is dispasad of without any modification In the impugned

order, If the paymants so due in favour of the account holder (escendent) ave not made within 27

days, the respondent shall approach the Learned Acjudicating Officer and seek execution of the

judgement and onder passed in iis favour. Such applications, if filed, shall be disoosed of

expeditiously and in sccardance with Law. The appeal is disposed of In the aforesaid terms. ~ --, ose a vas
< "> Ww \ iS... Singh, J}
f < \
co AG Ghairpersor
\uN
SS ee

 

iSubadh Kumar Gupta}

Member