(PER : NANDESH S. DESHPANDE, J.) 1. Heard. 960 apl 806.25.odt..odt 2 2. ADMIT. Heard finally by the consent of learned

counsel for the parties. 3. The applicant has prayed for quashing and setting

aside First Information Report No.278/2025 dated 06.04.2025

registered with Police Station Ramtek Nagpur (Rural) for the

offences punishable under Sections 108, 316(2), 316(5), 318(6)

read with Section 3(5) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 (for

short, 'the BNS, 2023'). 4. The non-applicant No.2 lodged an First Information

Report and as per the contents of the said First Information

Report, Anand Khante committed suicide by hanging from tree.

Therefore, the marg report was registered by the non-applicant

No.1 police station and subsequently on 06.04.2025 the non-

applicant No.2/complainant gave a report to the police station.

The said non-applicant No.2 is the wife of deceased/victim. 5. In the said complaint, the non-applicant No.2 stated

that the present applicant approached the victim in the year 2023
 960 apl 806.25.odt..odt 3 and had stated that he wanted to do business in partnership with

the deceased. The applicant/accused further stated that he was

having a business entity namely Kadambari Farms and for the said

purpose SHED-NET provided to the farmers. The victim initially

started a business namely M/S. Suman Agro Firm. It was

accordingly, decided that a loan will have to be obtained for the

purpose of providing shed to the farmers. In pursuance of the said

business the accused as well as the victim obtained loan from

Union Bank of India and the said bank transferred amount in the

account of the present accused as well as victim (Anand Khante).

On request of the applicant, the victim thereafter transferred the

amount of the loan to the account of applicant Madhav Patil. Both

of them i.e. applicant and victim approached the farmers in

Ramtek area and informed them about the scheme of the

Government and stated that they would be benefited by the said

scheme. It is further alleged in the First Information Report that

the present applicant never brought any material as regard the

said SHED-NET and did not provide the same to the farmers.

The farmers therefore, time and again began approaching the

victim for the said material and were enquiring with them. 960 apl 806.25.odt..odt 4 Subsequently, as the loan remained unpaid, the Bank Officers also

started demanding amount of loan from the present applicant.

Further more since loan was not returned, one of the co-accused

namely Ashish Godhane without consent of victim transferred an

amount of Rs.40 Lakhs to the account of the victim i.e. Anand

Khante. First Information Report further alleges that the present

applicant thereafter harassed the victim and the bank officers as

well as farmers were continuously demanding the amount of

money which subsequently resulted in the victim committing

suicide on 02.04.2025. Thus, First Information Report as stated

above was lodged which is challenged in the present application. 6. We have heard Mr. Kanak Mandpe, learned counsel

for the applicant, Mr. N.B. Jawade, learned APP for the State and

Mr. Tushar U. Tathod, learned counsel for non-applicant No.2. 7. Mr. Mandpe, learned counsel for the applicant submits

that the meaningful reading of the First Information Report would

reveal that no offence much less as punishable under Section 107

of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 is directed as against the
 960 apl 806.25.odt..odt 5 present applicant. He further submits that there is no overt act so

as to constitute abetment as contemplated under the said Section

and therefore, there is no mens rea to commit offence. He further

submits that for attracting the provisions of Section 107, an active

or direct act which lead the deceased to commit suicide without he

being left with more option has to be shown by the prosecution

and therefore, the First Information Report lacks of material

particulars to implicate the accused. 8. Learned APP while opposing the contentions

advanced by learned counsel for the applicant states that prima-

facie there is case of abetment of suicide and the applicant has

instigated for the same. He further submits that the Investigating

Agency during the course of investigation has recorded the

statement of victim/complainant and has also collected bank

documents. He has further submitted that statement of the farmers

was also recorded and modus operandi of the present applicant is

such that he is involved in similar crimes earlier. He therefore,

submits that a Special Investigation Team is constituted for
 960 apl 806.25.odt..odt 6 investigating the said crime. He therefore, submits that this is not

a fit case to exercise jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. 9. Learned counsel for the non-applicant No.2 while

supporting the contentions canvassed by the learned APP and

submits that the applicant herein is involved in similar types of

offences and First Information Report for offence punishable under Section 108 is registered vide First Information Report

No.278/2025. While taking us through the said First Information

Report he states that the methodology of the applicant is similar

in nature which has resulted in harassment to the farmers. 10. In the backdrop of these facts, we have perused the

First Information Report in question. The offence punishable is

under Section 45 of the BNS ( Section 107 of the I.P.C.) which

reads as under:- Section 107 of the IPC 107. Abetment of a thing.- A person abets the doing
 of a thing, who

 First.- Instigates any person to do that thing; or

 Secondly.- Engage with one or more other person or
 persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that
 thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in
 pursuance of that conspiracy, and in order to the
 doing of that thing or

 Thirdly.- Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal
 omission, the doing of that thing." Further more Section 108 of the BNS reads as under:-

 "108. Abetment of suicide.- If any person commits
suicide, whoever abets the commission of such suicide,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to ten years,
and shall also be liable to fine. Section 306 of the IPC

"306. Abetment of suicide. 960 apl 806.25.odt..odt 8 11. It is well settled principle of law by various judicial

pronouncement that for attracting offence under Section 108 ,

what is required is a direct or proximate act which leads the

deceased to commit suicide he having left with no option. Further

more, it is also settled that the act of instigation or abetment

should be having direct nexus with the act of committing suicide. 12. If the contents of the First Information Report in

question are tested on the touch stone of settled principle of law,

stated supra, prima-facie there is material against the present

applicant as the First Information Report spells out detail

methodology of the applicant to drive the persons like the husband

of the complainant to drive suicide. Further more, we cannot loose

sight of the fact that as stated by the prosecution, similar First

Information Report for identical offence has been registered

against the applicant bearing First Information Report

Nos.0278/2025 and 0305/2025. It is a settled principle of law

that powers under Section 482 of Criminal Procedure Code has to

be exercised sparingly and with great circumspection. It is also

settled that the said powers are not to be resorted to stifle
 960 apl 806.25.odt..odt 9 legitimate prosecution when the aspects involved would require a

 full fledge trial wherein allegations and counter allegations would

 be tested on the anvil of cross-examination. A beneficial reference

 in that regard can be made to the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex

 Court in The State of Madhya Pradesh Vs. Laxmi Narayan and

 others reported in (2019) 5 SCC 688. Thus, we are of the

 considered view that this is not a fit case to exercise jurisdiction

 under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code. 13. In the result, we pass the following order: 14. The criminal application stands disposed of. Pending application, if any, also stands disposed of.

 [NANDESH S. DESHPANDE, J] [ URMILA JOSHI PHALKE, J.)

 manisha

Signed by: Mrs. Manisha Shewale
Designation: PA To Honourable Judge
Date: 12/12/2025 15:53:15