Mr. P.N. Modi, Advocate with Mr. Vinay Chauhan, Mr. Ranjeet Bhonsale and Mr. Anant
Upadhyay, Advocates for the Appellant. Mr. Kumar Desai, Advocate with Mr. Mobin Shaikh, Advocates for the Respondent.

CORAM : P. K. Malhotra, Member & Presiding Officer (Offg.)
 S.S.N. Moorthy, Member

Per : S.S.N. Moorthy

 The adjudicating officer of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (for short

the Board) imposed a penalty of ` 14 crores on the appellants, Dushyant Natwarlal Dalal

and Puloma Dalal, on June 2, 2011. The above penalty was imposed under section 15HA of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (the Act) for violating the

provisions of section 12A (a) , (b) and (c) of the Act read with regulations 3 and 4 of the

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade

Practices Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 (referred to hereinafter as the

FUPT Regulations). The cause of action for the impugned adjudication order arose out

of the investigation conducted in the dealings in the shares of certain companies during

their Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) covering the period 2003 to 2005. The investigations

revealed that the appellants indulged in the unlawful act of cornering the shares of the

company acting as financiers to the key operators in the IPOs of a few entities, and in the

process, made unlawful gains at the cost of retail individual investors. The unlawful 2 gains were estimated to the tune of ` 4,94,19,379 and based on that the adjudicating

officer imposed a penalty of ` 14 crores. 2. The appellants are chartered accountants by profession and are actively engaged

in providing finances to various entities over a period of time. The appellants provided

finance to market operators like Purshottam Budhwani (Budhwani), Sugandh Estates and

Investments Pvt. Ltd. (Sugnadh) etc. The IPOs related to companies like ILFS

Investments (ILFS), Infrastructure Development Finance Co. Ltd. (IDFCL), Sasken

Communication Technologies Ltd. (Sasken), Gateway Distriparks Ltd. (Gateway),

Provogue, MSP Steel, etc., to mention a few of them. According to the appellant,

finances were provided to the key operators in the form of loan, pure and simple, and

they had no control over the utilization of funds by the key operators. However, the

analysis of the transactions and refund of money to the appellants revealed more than

what was apparent and the Board conducted in depth investigation in the financial

dealings of the appellant vis-à-vis the key operators. The appellants were served with a

show cause notice on June 16, 2006 alleging violation of regulations 3 and 4 of the

FUTP Regulations and directed to show cause why enquiry should not be conducted and

penalty imposed under section 15HA of the Act if found guilty. A supplementary show

cause notice was issued on 18.1.2011. Penalty as mentioned hereinabove was imposed

on January 2, 2011. 3. We have heard Shri P.N. Modi, learned counsel for the appellants and Shri Kumar

Desai, learned counsel for the respondent Board. 4. At the outset, it has to be mentioned that the arguments on both the sides were

confined to the issue of non compliance with the principles of natural justice by the

adjudicating officer while passing the impugned order. In the present appellate order we

are confining ourselves to the above issue only and merits of the case are not considered. 5. The principal argument advanced by the appellant's learned counsel is that the

respondent Board failed to appreciate that non disclosure of documents and refusal of

cross examination of witnesses whose statements/submissions/correspondence are relied

upon causes prejudice to the appellant and it is a clear denial of reasonable opportunity to

submitting effective rebuttal of the allegations. According to the appellant, the Board

ignored the settled legal position that an order exercising judicial or quasi judicial 3 functions passed in violation of the principles of natural justice cannot be sustained. The

impugned order has been passed without providing the appellant opportunity for

inspection of documents, cross examination of parties whose statements are relied upon

and without providing effective opportunity to make submissions on the charges leveled. 6. The appellants' learned counsel submitted during the hearing of the appeal the

history of the events which culminated in the levy of penalty. According to the

appellant's learned counsel the impugned order has been passed on the basis of the

material collected by the adjudicating officer and the evidence on record without

providing the appellant necessary opportunity, as promised, to rebut the allegations. The

supplementary show cause notice issued on 18.1.2011 expressly relied on the

communication of Sugandh, Budhwani and Kakadia, but the request for cross

examination of Sugandh, Budhwani and Kakadia was turned down. Opportunity of

proper inspection of records was not provided to the appellants. In March 2011, the

appellants had certain genuine difficulties which were duly communicated to the

adjudicating officer and a reply was given to the appellants that a fresh date of hearing

and time for inspection of documents would be provided. According to the appellant this

was never granted by the adjudicating officer and the impugned order was passed taking

into account the material already on record. 7. The appellant's learned counsel drew our attention to the provisions of section 15I and 15HA of the Act and submitted that the proceedings imposing penalty are

independent quasi judicial proceedings which required proper application of mind by the

adjudicating officer and the present order does not conform to the above legal

requirements. 8. The learned counsel for the Board submitted that there was no infirmity on the

part of the adjudicating officer with respect to compliance of the principles of natural

justice and so the impugned order cannot be regarded as bad in law from that point of

view. An affidavit in reply on behalf of the respondent has been filed justifying the stand

taken by the adjudicating officer. According to the Board, the appellants had taken full,

free and complete inspection of all documents referred to and relied upon by it and no

prejudice is caused to the appellants by way of any failure on the part of the adjudicating

officer. The appellant had been provided with information of various documents 4 considered in the supplementary show cause notice and inspection was also conducted by

the appellant of the very same documents and no prejudice has been caused in this regard.

In fact, the appellants had taken too many adjournments contributing to further delay in

the proceedings. It is the case of the Board that investigation reports and all other

documents referred to or relied upon in the adjudication proceedings were provided to the

appellants. It is also submitted that statements of Budhwani, Sugandh and Kakadia as

sought by the appellants were never recorded by the Board but reliance has been placed

on the letters submitted by them. It is also argued that the submissions of Sugandh,

Budhwani and Smt. Nimisha Kadakia were relied on only in the form of corroborative

evidence for finance provided and refund received. It is also strenuously admitted that

there is no need for cross examination of Budhwani and Kakadia since opportunity of

cross examination is not an essential element of natural justice but is a part of only

procedural justice and no prejudice has been caused to the appellants. With a reference to

the order passed by the whole time member under section 11B issuing directions to the

appellant and the order of disgorgement passed by the whole time member and the

confirmation of the same in appeal it is submitted that the facts and evidences considered

therein have been examined and found correct in those proceedings as well and so very

same facts relevant to the impugned order automatically stand confirmed. 9. We have considered the rival submissions and have gone through the records of

the case. 10. Let us first examine the grievance regarding non compliance with the principles

of natural justice by the adjudicating officer. The order passed by the adjudicating

officer, being quasi judicial in nature, has to necessarily observe the principles of natural

justice with a view to providing the appellant with all the documents and evidences relied

upon by him and for providing a reasonable opportunity to put up necessary defense

against the allegations. In the present case, the appellant's grievance concerns lack of

opportunity to inspect relevant records, lack of opportunity to file a proper reply to the

allegations, lack of satisfactory personal hearing and lack of opportunity to cross

examine Budhwani and Kakadia. For a proper appreciation of the grievance of the

appellant it is necessary to refer to the correspondence between the appellant and the

adjudicating officer when the proceedings were on. The first show cause notice was 5 issued to the appellants on 16.6.2006. The appellants' correspondence with the

respondent Board spanned over a considerable period of time from the issue of show

cause notice. A supplementary show cause notice was issued on 18.1.2011. There were

some deficiencies in the show cause notice issued on January 18, 2011 and so on January

25, 2011 the appellants corresponded with the Board for providing them with correct and

complete documents in respect of the show cause notice. On February 14, 2011 the

appellants sent a request to the Board to allow them to have personal inspection of the

documents relied upon. A request was also made in the above letter for providing the

appellant with an opportunity to cross examine Budhwani and Kakadia. The Board

permitted inspection of relevant documents/materials to be held on March 14, 2011.

Since the brother of one of the appellants who was dependent on her had to undergo an

open heart surgery on March 14, 2011 a request was made for adjournment of the date of

inspection. The Board rescheduled the inspection to March 24, 2011. On March 23,

2011 the appellants sent an email to the Board requesting another date since one of the

appellants could not be present in Mumbai on the said date. It was the intention of the

appellants to take a joint inspection of the documents under consideration. On March 23,

2011 at 2:51 p.m. the appellant sent an email to the Board stating that he was awaiting

response to his emails rescheduling the date of inspection. Since no reply was

forthcoming another email was sent to the Board at 5:03 p.m., again referring to the

adjournment of the inspection and inability to talk over phone to the concerned officer

Mr. Biyani. On March 24, 2011 another email was sent to the Board which reads as

under:- Subsequent to this there was no response from the Board. Admittedly, the appellant was

not given inspection of documents as promised. No response regarding the request for

cross examination was available. 11. The facts mentioned hereinabove are on record and are not disputed. From the

request made by the appellants which is part of the records it is clear that the appellants

wanted inspection of documents and cross examination of Budhwani and Kakadia. The 6 Board was inclined to grant necessary opportunity for inspection and a decision regarding

cross examination of parties. The sequence of events narrated above shows that the

appellants were keenly following up with the Board and all efforts were made to

co-operate with the Board and request for adjournments was made only in exceptional

contingencies. The emails sent by the appellants from time to time on March 23, 2011

evidence that the appellant keenly wanted rescheduling of the date of inspection and

efforts were made time and again to contact the Board and obtain a convenient date. The

email of March 24, 2011 shows that the appellants were under a bonafide impression that

rescheduling of inspection would be done as promised by the officer of the Board. 12. It is necessary to see how the adjudication officer has reacted to the above request

and proceeded with the finalization of the order on the basis of the available records and

material as set out in the impugned order: 13. From the impugned order it is clear that a final conclusion was drawn on the basis

of information/material and submissions of the appellants which are available on record.

There is no mention about the specific request for rescheduling of inspection made by the

appellants and the correspondence with the Board that it would revert to the appellants in

reply to the request for adjournment. In view of the specific facts narrated above, it is 7 clear that the appellants were not provided with an opportunity for inspection of

documents and consideration of the request for cross examination of parties. In the facts

of the case we cannot agree with the submissions of the Board that the adjudicating

officer has offered full, free and complete inspection of all documents referred to and

relied upon by him. We cannot appreciate the stand of the Board that the appellants have

failed and neglected to avail of opportunities and cannot now complain of breach of

natural justice. 14. The learned counsel for the Board very strenuously argued that general cross

examination is not part of natural justice but part of procedural justice. A reference was

made to the judgment of High Court of Calcutta in Haripada Moitra vs President,

Calcutta Improvement Tribunal , [AIR 1970 Cal.154]. However, on a perusal of the

judgment it is seen that the present case cannot be held parallel to the facts available in

that case . In the said judgment it is made clear that the petitioner refused to participate in

the enquiry and the methods adopted by the petitioner clearly show that he was

determined not to participate in the enquiry by the opposite party. However, in the

present case there was no such non co-operation. On the other hand, the appellants had

repeatedly informed the Board about their personal inconvenience and sought time very

meticulously for investigation and cross examination of parties. Since every case is to be

judged in the facts and circumstances of that case, we cannot hold the view that denial of

inspection sought for by the appellant can be brushed aside on the ground of lack of

prejudice or conclusion based on facts already considered in other orders relating to the

appellants issued by the whole time member. 15. Another important objection raised by the appellant in the present appeal is that

adjudication proceedings have been finalized without proper application of mind and

without proper appreciation of the provisions of section 15I of the Act. According to the

appellants' learned counsel, adjudication proceedings are separate and independent

proceedings which require the delinquent to be provided with a reasonable opportunity of

being heard for the purpose of imposing any penalty. It is submitted that the impugned

order has been passed without observing the statutory requirement laid down in section

15I of the Act. On a consideration of the provisions of the Act and the observations in

the adjudication order and the affidavit in reply filed by the Board, we are of the view 8 that the proceedings have not been treated as independent proceedings as envisaged. This

aspect is significant in two respects, namely, application of mind of the adjudication

officer and the compliance with the principles of natural justice. Even though the Board

is empowered to conduct parallel proceedings in respect of a delinquent with regard to a

single offence, the proceedings are separate and independent. It does not follow as a

natural corollary that a delinquent can be punished in adjudication proceedings because

certain directions have been issued against him under section 11 and 11B of the Act

which have acquired finality. In this respect, it is necessary to refer to the relevant

provisions of sections 15HA and 15I of the Act which are pertinent to the issue

considered in the impugned order. For the sake of convenience, the above provisions of

the Act are extracted below:- Section 15HA deals with the penalty for fraudulent and unfair trade practices and this

obviously takes us to regulations contained in FUTP Regulations. FUTP Regulations, the

investigation procedure set out therein and the penal provisions contained in section

15HA and 15I are composite provisions which have to be implemented as laid down

therein. In short, the adjudication proceedings for FUTP violation which is the subject

matter of the present appeal are independent and so they should stand on their own

factual and legal foundation. 16. In the affidavit in reply filed by the respondent Board heavy reliance is placed on

the directions issued by the whole time member under section 11 and 11B of the Act and

the disgorgement order passed against the appellant. It is submitted that the above two

orders have attained finality in appellate proceedings and points of facts and law have

become final and binding on the appellant and the Board. As a consequence, the

materials and documents which formed the basis of the show cause notice in the present

case are the same and the appellants had ample opportunity on the earlier occasion to take

a full and complete inspection of the documents and verification of the facts contained

therein. It is further submitted that the whole time member's order, having been

confirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court and the facts as contained therein having been

examined not only at the level of the Board but also at the level of the Tribunal and the

Supreme Court the appellants cannot raise any grievance now. The tone and tenor of the

submissions of the respondent Board is to the effect that all the statutory requirements

have been complied with in the orders of the whole time member and the guilt of the

appellants stands finally established. 17. The learned counsel for the Board made reference to a host of decisions holding

the view that the order of the whole time member on identical wrong doing has attained

finality. The following decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court are relied upon ( 1)

Aligarh Muslim University and Ors. vs. Mansoor Ali Khan [( 2000) 7 SCC 529]

(2) Thakore Sobhag Singh vs. Thakur Jai Singh and Ors. [AIR 1968 SC 1328] (3) State

of West Bengal vs. Hemant Kumar Bhattacharjee and Ors. [ AIR 1966 SC 1061] and (4)

Haryana Financial Corporation and Anr. Vs. Kailash Cahndra Ahuja [(2008) 9 SCC 31]. 18. A perusal of the above mentioned orders reveals that they apply mainly to inter

party disputes. The principles of res judicata are considered in detail in those orders.

They relate mainly to cases where one consequence/claim flows from another

suit/proceedings relating to the same case. In the present case, the legal position is

different. 19. The Board has been authorized to conduct multiple proceedings in respect of a

wrong doing in a parallel manner. But each proceeding is independent by itself and a

competent authority has to come to a well reasoned out conclusion after proper

application of mind to the facts and legal issues. It cannot be held that the consequences 10 in one of the proceedings can be automatically followed in other proceedings without

observing the statutory requirements laid down in respect of the separate proceedings. In

fact, the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sri T. Ashok Pai vs. Commissioner of

Income Tax, Bangalore [292 ITR 11], lays down the legal principle in a very clear

manner. It has been held therein that penalty proceedings must be considered to be

different from proceedings relating to quantum of income since the burden of proof in

penalty proceedings is different. 20. This Tribunal, in the case of Dilip S. Pendse vs. Securities and Exchange Board of

India, [Appeal no.90 of 2007 dated November 20, 2008] has considered the separate and

independent character of adjudication proceedings and held that the finding in

adjudication proceedings cannot be mixed up with the result of an enquiry under section

11 of the Act. "Every finding of the adjudicating officer must be passed on an

independent appraisal of evidence on record and cannot be allowed to be influenced by

extraneous factors. For the same reason, we do not appreciate the adjudicating officer's

reference to the appellant being penalized for the same alleged mischief in an enquiry

under section 11 of the Act............." 21. The above decision would show that the attempt of the learned counsel for the

respondent Board that the adjudication order should be viewed in the backdrop of the

orders of the whole time member which have attained a finality and so all statutory

requirements should be considered to have been complied with cannot be accepted. 22. We have discussed at length the factual matrix of the case relating to denial of

proper opportunity of inspection of records to the appellants in the previous paragraphs.

The legal position set out in the previous paragraphs would also illustrate that

independent evaluation of evidence by providing statutory opportunities to the appellants

is lacking in the present case and this has affected application of mind of the adjudicating

officer independently to the facts of the case. In view of the discussion above, we set aside the impugned order, remand the case

to the adjudicating officer for fresh consideration as per law the request the appellants to

inspect records which are relevant and being relied upon and also to cross examine

Budhwani and Kakadia. During the hearing of the appeal a reference has been made to a

few documents annexed to the supplementary show cause notice which are said to be

new. According to the appellant, it is necessary to inspect the new documents annexed to

the supplementary show cause notice. The adjudicating officer may consider the

relevance of these documents and if they are found to be relied upon this request may be

considered as per law. The appellant is directed to fully co-operate with the Board and

avail of the earliest opportunities for speedy finalization of the adjudication proceedings.

The Board is directed to pass orders expeditiously since the appeal relates to an old

matter. We may make it clear that we are not expressing any view on the merits of the

case. The appeal stands disposed of as above. No costs. Sd/- P.K. Malhotra
 Member &
 Presiding Officer (Offg.)

 Sd/- S.S.N. Moorthy
 Member
4.10.2012
Prepared and compared by
RHN