01-04-2021

This is an application under Section 438 Cr.P.C., praying for pre-arrest bail by the petitioner,
namely, Kuljeet Singh, apprehending arrest in connection Dhemaji Police Station Case No. 425
of 2020, registered under Section 420 of the IPC, read with Section 66 of the I.T. Act, 2000. 2. Mr. R. Bharadwaj, learned counsel representing the petitioner and Ms. S. H. Bora,
learned Additional Public Prosecutor representing the State respondent were heard on 25-03-
2021 and today the case has been fixed for necessary order. Accordingly, this order is passed
disposing of the pre-arrest bail application. 3. None represents the petitioner today. However, Ms. S. H. Bora, learned Additional
Public Prosecutor for the State respondent is present. 4. Perused the case diary. Page No.# 2/6 5. The contents of the FIR disclose the fact that on 27-09-2021 the complainant, Sri
Rahul Amin Khan, lodged an FIR with Dhemaji Police Station to the effect that on 29-08-
2020, he had travelled to Dhemaji. On that day, he received an SMS from unknown bulk SMS
"QP Mango C" on his mobile No. 8708784487 that, " the loan you applied for has been
approved of Rs.1,50,000/- (Rupees one Lac Fifty Thousand only) within 24 hours, click for
cash" and thereafter given a link. On clicking the given link, provided by the accused,
prompting to download another link and found that it was intrusive in nature. The file, on
downloading, gave access to all files of the mobile of the victim. The statement of the bank
account of the accused person shows that his company named as " Transkai Technology
Private Limited" has been credited with huge amounts within a short span of time. The entire
money is suspected to be fraudulently obtained by committing breach of trust and cheating. 6. On receipt of the FIR, on the above facts, the Dhemaji Police Station Case No. 425 of
2020, under Section 420 of the IPC, read with Section 66 of the I.T. Act, 2000 was registered. 7. The learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that some commission of fraud
was alleged against the aforesaid company and that the petitioner has nothing to do with the
SMS and mobile number from which it was sent. 8. During the course of investigation, the aforesaid company was found to have been
formed by the frontman Mr. Xiao Kai, who is a Chinese national. Later on, it has come to light
that one Mohammad Rafi and Binay Gurung were appointed as Directors of the company and
Kuljeet Singh's (petitioner's) personal phone number had been used for disbursing loans by
practicing fraud. Subsequently, Mohammad Rafi and Binay Gurung were arrested. Their
statements before police reflect the complicity of the petitioner in the alleged crime to a great
extent. Moreover, the case diary reveals that the petitioner was in good terms with the
Chinese person, named above, who started the alleged company, designed an intrusive and
offensive Android App and sent bulk messages by using petitioner's personal phone to
random victims in the garb of granting easy loan. 9. After correspondence with Jalandhar Cyber Cell by the Superintendent of Police,
Dhemaji, the said Cyber Cell shared the input that the alleged bulk SMS was released by the
aforesaid company. They also shared the phone No. 8708784487, of the alleged company
which was registered in the name of one Kuljeet Singh from Punjab. 10. The learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the petitioner has been co- Page No.# 3/6

operating with the investigation of the case, since notice under Section 41(A) of the Cr.P.C.
was served upon him. The petitioner has also categorically made a statement to that effect in
paragraph 3 of the petition. On perusal of Section 41(A) of the Cr.P.C. notice, referred to by
the learned counsel for the petitioner, it is found that the same is in connection with
Jalandhar Cyber Crime Cell Case No. 2472 CC/JR, dated 17-09-2020. However, the instant
application for pre-arrest bail is in connection with Dhemaji Police Station Case No. 425 of
2020. The contents of the aforesaid notice under Section 41(A) of the Cr.P.C. also shows that
the said notice was in connection with a complaint received by the aforesaid Jalandhar Cyber
Crime Cell. Such fact clearly reveals that the submission made by the learned counsel for the
petitioner that the petitioner had co-operated with the investigation of the instant case
appears to have no leg to stand. 11. The learned counsel for the petitioner has referred to the decision of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre vs. State of Maharashtra and
others , reported in (2011) 1 SCC 694, to press his argument that the accused-petitioner has
already joined the investigation, therefore, his arrest and custodial interrogation is not
necessary. However, in view of the observation made in the foregoing paragraphs, the
decision in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) is not applicable in the instant case. 12. The case diary reveals that the aforesaid alleged company was formed by one Chinese
national, indicated above, in connivance with some persons from India with motive to cheat
and thereby to fraudulently collect a huge amount of money from innocent people. Moreover,
personal details of victims have fallen in the hands of foreign national, who may misuse it in
any manner whatsoever. The case diary also reveals that there is reasonable ground to
believe that the motive of the entire operation could be for mass level cross border espionage
and even blackmailing of high priority individuals, apart from financial scam. 13. The learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that in the instant case, the
offence alleged against the petitioner is, inter alia, under Section 420 of the IPC and in an
offence under Section 420 of the IPC, maximum punishment prescribed is imprisonment for
either description for a term, which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine. In this context, the learned counsel for the petitioner has referred to the decision of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Arenesh Kumar vs. State of Bihar and another ,
reported in (2014) 8 SCC 273, particularly paragraph 7.1, 7.2 and 7.3 thereof, which are
 Page No.# 4/6

reproduced hereinbelow: 14. As the petitioner has not been arrested yet and he only apprehends arrest, it cannot
be said beforehand that police, without complying with the guidelines given in the Arenesh
Kumar (supra) shall arrest the petitioner. 15. On the other hand, it appears from the materials on record that the alleged offence in
the instant case has been committed in an organized manner and the network of the
offenders spreads even to a foreign country. A chain of persons are involved in the offence
alleged. Therefore, to unearth the entire facts leading to the alleged offences, which, in fact,
 Page No.# 5/6

constitute some economic offence in nature, requires an in-depth and detailed investigation.
The manner in which the alleged offences are alleged to have been committed, there is
likelyhood of tempering with the evidence or causing disappearance of the evidence by the
accused-petitioner. Therefore, the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Arenesh Kumar (supra), on facts, does not appear to be applicable in the instant case. 16. That apart, referring to Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra), the learned counsel for
the petitioner has further submitted that Section 438(1) of the Cr.P.C. be interpreted in the
light of Article 21 of the Constitution of India and that an order under Section 438 of the
Cr.P.C. would not affect the right of police to conduct investigation. 17. The learned counsel for the petitioner prays that in the event, the accused-petitioner is
arrested, as he apprehends, it would amount to curtailing his liberty in violation of article 21 of the Constitution of India. However, in the same decision, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has
laid down certain guidelines, which are reproduced below: 18. In the instant case, considering the magnitude of the offences allegedly committed by
the accused-petitioner and others including a national of a foreign country is likely to affect a
large number of people and the gravity of the offences, as indicated above, is such that a
meticulously careful and thorough investigation is inevitable. It is also noticed that in the
instant case the mobile phone seized in connection with this case, wherefrom the bulk SMS
were percolated, belonged to the present petitioner. 19. The learned counsel for the petitioner has also referred to the decision of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of Ravindra Saxena vs. State of Rajasthan , reported in 2010 (1)JCC
371 and has submitted that anticipatory bail cannot be denied merely because the allegation
in the case pertain to cheating or forgery of valuable security. It has further been submitted
by the learned counsel for the petitioner, referring to the said decision , that the merit of the
issues aforesaid shall be assessed at the time of trial of the accused persons and denial of the
anticipatory bail on the ground that challan as has been presented, would be improper. This
decision is not applicable in the instant case in the given facts. In the present case, challan
has not been laid yet, is an undisputed position. 20. We have already found the nature as well as magnitude of the offence impacting large
number of people requiring detailed and in-depth investigation on that count also, the
decision in Ravindra Saxena (supra) is not applicable. 21. In view of the discussions above and considering the nature of the offences, its
magnitude and also the fact that the same has been allegedly committed in an organized
manner, this Court is not inclined to grant the privilege of pre-arrest bail to the petitioner.
Accordingly, the prayer for pre-arrest bail made by the petitioner is rejected. 22. The petition stands disposed of accordingly. 23. Return the case diary. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant