1. This is an application filed by an accused for regular Page 1 of 20 R/CR.MA/2191/2015 CAV JUDGMENT bail in connection with C.R. No.I-16 of 2014 registered with
the DCB Police Station, Surat of the offence punishable
under Section 120-B , 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 477-A of
the Indian Penal Code. 2. It appears from the materials on record that the
applicant herein was arrested on 20 th August, 2014. On
completion of the Investigation the charge-sheet was filed
on 15th November, 2014. The applicant prayed for bail
before the learned Sessions Court at Surat. The learned 7 th
Additional District and Sessions Judge, Surat vide order
dated 24th December, 2014, rejected the bail application. 3. Being dissatisfied, the applicant has come up with
the present application. Case of the Prosecution. 4. On 11th April, 2014, one Shri Utpal D. Dave, serving
as a Cluster Branch Manager in the ICICI Bank lodged the
First Information Report, inter alia state as under:- BOES to Deputy Commissioner of Diamond Bourse,
Customs Department, Surat, with a letter of Bank
No.RBG/6246/FY 2014/001 out of the BOES submitted by
M/s R.A. Distributors Pvt. Ltd. Company in our bank. M.S.
Das Assistant Commissioner Diamond Bourse, Surat
Customs Department, Surat had replied on 3.4.2014
vide letter No. OA2-VIII/CUS/ICQ (SHB)/65/2013-14 Surat
in which it was stated that, comparing the BOES sent for
verification with the BOES record, prima facie it
appeared that there were differences in 17 BOES record,
prima facie it appeared that there were differences in 17
BOES according to record of Customs Department and Page 3 of 20 R/CR.MA/2191/2015 CAV JUDGMENT all these following 17-BOES were bogus and fraudulent
 hence it was urged by the Customs Department to take
 legal steps regarding them. As shown in the above table, bill of entries submitted
 by M/s R.A. Distributors Pvt. Ltd. were forged and
 fraudulent and Customs Department had urged us to
 undertake legal proceedings, hence we consulted
 higher officials of ICICI Bank limited and discussed with
 our legal department who informed me that as a
 reputed bank it was our responsibility towards the
 society hence legal steps may be taken against
 Directors of M/s R.A. Distributors Pvt. Ltd. Company,
 hence I had prepared a complain on 5.4.2014 on the
 letter head of ICICI Bank along with the copies of 17
 BOES submitted in our bank by M/s R.A. Distributors
 Pvt. Ltd. and along with the correspondence with
 Customs Department, Surat and had given y complain
 in Athwa Lines Police Station with respect to which I
 was called at D.C.B. Police Station, so I have come to
 give my complaint today on behalf of bank. Directors of M/s R.A. Distributors Pvt. Ltd. [1] Shailesh
 Rameshbhai Patel resident of: Room No.32, Second
 Floor, 9/19/B, Dr. Vegas Street, Cavell Cross Lane,
 Mumbai - 400002 [2] Aniket Ashok Ambekar Resident
 of: 872, GS Subedar Ramji Ambekarnagar, A.G. Khan
 Road, Worli, Mumbai - 400018 with the help of each
 other with the intention of committing offence had
 conspired and had prepared 17 forged and fraudulent
 bill of entries in the name of M/s R.A. Distributors Pvt.
 Ltd. and had used it as genuine and bwtween
 13.12.2013 to 24.2.2014 had produced it in ICICI Bank
 at Shyam Chambers, Opp. Sub Jail, Ringroad, Surat and
 had transferred Rs.104,60,99,082/- to [1] Mabrook
 Trading FZE Dubai [2] Nippon Incorporation Ltd. Hong
 Kong [3] Corneil Trading(HK) Ltd Hong Kong [4] Al
 Almas FZE Ltd. Hong Kong [5] Al Saba General Trading
 FZE Dubai [6] Daimur Gems Jewellery (LLC) Ltd. Hong
 Kong and therey had cheated with Indian Government Page 5 of 20 R/CR.MA/2191/2015 CAV JUDGMENT and had committed offences. So this is my complain to
 take legal steps which is true and correct." 5. It appears that the case of the prosecution is that the
applicant herein and the co-accused hatched a conspiracy
and as a part of the conspiracy floated bogus companies
by appointing several persons as the Directors. After
opening the accounts between 13th December, 2013 and
24th February, 2014, seventeen bogus and forged bank
Bills of entry were produced in the bank and thereby
remitted a huge amount to the tune of Rs. 1,04, 60,
99,082/- to Dubai and Hongkong. 6. It is the case of the prosecution that the conspiracy
was hatched in the office premises of one Madanlal Jain a
co-accused. The Bills of Entry produced for the remittance
of the amount were forged, and signatures on the Bills of
entry were also forged. The applicant herein is alleged to
have visited the office of Madanlal Jain(co-accused). Huge
amount was sent from Mumbai to Surat through Couriers,
more particularly, through the employees of the applicant
herein. The applicant is alleged to have received huge
amount, and the same was credited in his account as well
as in the account of his brother. 7. Mr. P.M. Thakkar, the learned senior advocate
appearing on behalf of the applicant-accused vehemently
submitted that the investigation is over and the charge-
sheet has been filed. He submitted that practically all the Page 6 of 20 R/CR.MA/2191/2015 CAV JUDGMENT co-accused, except the applicant herein and one Madanlal
Jain, are still in custody. He submitted that the offence is
triable by the Magistrate. He further submitted that one
Sunil Agrawal a co-accused, who is alleged to have played
a major role in opening the fake account from which the
funds were transferred abroad, was released on bail by a
co-ordinate Bench of this Court . He further pointed out
that one another co-accused, namely Ratan Agrawal, who
had opened the fake account along-with Sunil Agrawal,
with bogus signatures of the Directors, has also been
ordered to be released on bail by the Sessions Court. He
pointed out that one another prime co-accused, namely
Bilal Haroon Gilani, who played a major role in transferring
the amount from Mumbai to Surat has also been ordered
to be released on bail by the Sessions Court. He submitted
that the case of the applicant herein is on the same
footing with the case of Bilal and Sunil Agrawal. 8. Mr. Thakkar submitted that the applicant was taken
on Police remand for a period of nine days and nothing
incriminating was recovered from him. In such
circumstances, referred to above, Mr. Thakkar prays that
the application merits consideration and the applicant
may be ordered to be released on bail, subject to terms
and conditions. 9. This application has been vehemently opposed by Mr.
Rawal, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor appearing Page 7 of 20 R/CR.MA/2191/2015 CAV JUDGMENT for the State. He pointed out that although the case is
magistrate triable yet is a very serious economic offence.
A huge amount was fraudulently transferred to the foreign
countries. He pointed out that in connection with the very
same transaction, there is a prosecution against the
applicant herein under the provisions of the Prevention of
Money Laundering Act . Mr. Rawal pointed out that the
applicant has not been released on bail in the case of
money laundering. He further submitted that although
some of the co-accused similarly situated have been
released on bail, yet that by itself is no ground to release
the applicant herein on bail. He submitted that having
regard to the serious nature of the crime alleged, this
application deserves to be rejected. 10. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the
parties and having gone through the materials on record,
the only question that falls for my consideration is whether
the accused deserves to be released on bail or not. 11. Indisputably, the case on hand is one of criminal
conspiracy. Prima facie it appears that as a part of the
conspiracy, which was hatched, a huge amount was
transferred to Dubai and Hongkong on the strength of fake
Bills of Entry. Each of the accused has played his own role
in the alleged conspiracy. It appears that one of the main
accused persons Sunil Dipak Kumar Agrawal has been
ordered to be released on regular bail by a co-ordinate Page 8 of 20 R/CR.MA/2191/2015 CAV JUDGMENT Bench of this Court, vide order dated 19 th November, 2014
passed in Criminal Misc. Application No.15636 of 2014. I
inquired with Mr. Rawal, the learned APP whether the
State intends to challenge the order passed by the co-
ordinate Bench before the higher forum. In reply, it was
submitted that the State has accepted the order passed
by the co-ordinate bench. 12. It also appears that one another co-accused namely
Ratan Dipakkumar Agrawal has been ordered to be
released on bail by the Sessions Court, vide order dated 1 st
January, 2015. While ordering the release of Ratan
Dipakkumar Agrawal, the Sessions Court observed as
under:- 13. It also appears that one another co-accused who
seems to have played a major role, namely Bilal Galani,
has been ordered to be released on regular bail by the
Sessions Court, vide order dated 2nd January, 2015. While
ordering his release, the learned Sessions Jude made the
following observations:- 14. Surprisingly, although the co-accused have been
released on bail including Sunil Agrawal, yet the learned Page 10 of 20 R/CR.MA/2191/2015 CAV JUDGMENT Sessions Judge refused to exercise his discretion in favour
of the applicant herein by observing that the case of the
applicant herein was distinguishable with the case of the
present applicant. The learned Sessions Judge made the
following observations:- 15. I am unable to understand the line of reasoning
adopted by the learned Judge more particularly in the
wake of the finding that there was nothing on record to
show that the co-accused Sunil Agrawal had received any
monetory benefit. No person would indulge in such type of
activities without any monetory benefit. On what basis
such finding is recorded is not known. As observed earlier,
each accused has played his own role and all are part and
parcel of the conspiracy. 16. I do not intend to go into the merit of the matter. I
am persuaded to exercise my discretion in favour of the Page 12 of 20 R/CR.MA/2191/2015 CAV JUDGMENT applicant herein solely on the ground that three of the
main accused persons have been released on bail. One of
the co-accused has been released by a co-ordinate bench
of this Court and the other two accused are released by
the Sessions Court. 17. The Investigation is over and the charge-sheet has
been filed. The offence is triable by the Magistrate. The
entire case of the prosecution is based on documentary
evidence. Many witnesses would be examined in the
course of the trial and the trial would take a considerable
long period of time before it is concluded. 18. I may quote some of the observations made by the
Supreme Court in the Case of Sanjay Chandra Vs. CBI reported in 2012(1) GLH, 93:- 16. This Court, time and again, has stated that bail is
the rule and committal to jail an exception. It is also
observed that refusal of bail is a restriction on the
personal liberty of the individual guaranteed under Article
21 of the Constitution. In the case of State of Rajasthan v.
Balchand , (1977) 4 SCC 308 : (AIR 1977 SC 2447), this
Court opined: 25. Coming back to the facts of the present case, both the
Courts have refused the request for grant of bail on two
grounds :- The primary ground is that offence alleged
against the accused persons is very serious involving deep
rooted planning in which, huge financial loss is caused to
the State Exchequer ; the secondary ground is that the
possibility of the accused persons tempering with the
witnesses. In the present case, the charge is that of
cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property,
forgery for the purpose of cheating using as genuine a
forged document. The punishment of the offence is
punishment for a term which may extend to seven years.
It is, no doubt, true that the nature of the charge may be
relevant, but at the same time, the punishment to which
the party may be liable, if convicted, also bears upon the
issue. Therefore, in determining whether to grant bail,
both the seriousness of the charge and the severity of the
punishment should be taken into consideration. The grant
or refusal to grant bail lies within the discretion of the
Court. The grant or denial is regulated, to a large extent,
by the facts and circumstances of each particular case.
But at the same time, right to bail is not to be denied
merely because of the sentiments of the community
against the accused. The primary purposes of bail in a
criminal case are to relieve the accused of imprisonment,
to relieve the State of the burden of keeping him, pending
the trial, and at the same time, to keep the accused
constructively in the custody of the Court, whether before
or after conviction, to assure that he will submit to the Page 16 of 20 R/CR.MA/2191/2015 CAV JUDGMENT jurisdiction of the Court and be in attendance thereon
whenever his presence is required. This Court in Gurcharan Singh and Ors. v. State , AIR 1978 SC 179,
observed that two paramount considerations, while
considering petition for grant of bail in non-bailable
offence, apart from the seriousness of the offence, are the
likelihood of the accused fleeing from justice and his
tampering with the prosecution witnesses. Both of them
relate to ensure of the fair trial of the case. Though, this
aspect is dealt by the High Court in its impugned order, in
our view, the same is not convincing. 26. When the under-trial prisoners are detained in jail
custody to an indefinite period, Article 21 of the
Constitution is violated. Every person, detained or
arrested, is entitled to speedy trial, the question is : affidavit), and we see no reason why he
 should be denied bail. A doctor incarcerated
 for a long period may end up like Dr. Manette
 in Charles Dicken's novel A Tale of Two
 Cities, who forgot his profession and even his
 name in the Bastille." 28. We are conscious of the fact that the accused are
 charged with economic offences of huge magnitude. We are
 also conscious of the fact that the offences alleged, if
 proved, may jeopardize the economy of the country. At the
 same time, we cannot lose sight of the fact that the
 investigating agency has already completed investigation
 and the charge-sheet is already filed before the Special
 Judge, CBI, New Delhi. Therefore, their presence in the
 custody may not be necessary for further investigation. We
 are of the view that the appellants are entitled to the grant
 of bail pending trial on stringent conditions in order to ally
 the apprehension expressed by CBI." 19. In the result, this application is allowed. The
applicant-accused is ordered to be released on bail in
connection with the C.R. No. I-16 of 2014 registered with
the DCB Police Station, Surat on executing a personal
bond of Rs. 5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lac Only) with one
surety of the like amount each to the satisfaction of the
trial Court, and subject to the conditions that he shall:- 20. The Authorities will release the appliciant only if he is
not required in connection with any other offence for the
time being. If breach of any of the above conditions is
committed, the Sessions Judge concerned will be free to
issue warrant or take appropriate action in the matter. Bail
bond to be executed before the learned Lower Court
having jurisdiction to try the case. It will be open for the
concerned Court to delete, modify and/or relax any of the
above conditions, in accordance with law. At the trial,
learned Trial Court shall not be influenced by the
observations of preliminary nature, qua the evidence at
this stage, made by this Court while enlarging the
applicant on bail. Rule is made absolute to the aforesaid

extent. Direct service is permitted . (J.B.PARDIWALA, J.) Page 19 of 20 R/CR.MA/2191/2015 CAV JUDGMENT Manoj Page 20 of 20