The present appeal has been filed against the order of the

Whole Time Member (hereinafter referred to as 'WTM') of

Securities and Exchange Board of India (hereinafter referred to as

'SEBI') dated November 20, 2020 debarring the appellant from

accessing the securities market for a period of two years. 2. A show cause notice dated September 21, 2018 was issued

calling upon the appellant and 20 other noticees to show cause as to

why suitable direction under Section 11 and 11B of the Securities

and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as

' SEBI Act ') should not be issued against them. The show cause

notice alleged that the appellant alongwith other connected entities

were acting in concert and were part of a scheme and enticed to off-

load a large number of shares of the company known as Timbor

Home Ltd. in the secondary market by planning unsolicited

misleading advice recommending purchase of shares of the company

thereby inducing unsuspected gullible investors to purchase the scrip

of the company. The modus operandi was that prior to sending bulk

SMS, the connected entities bought small quantity of shares in each

transaction which contributed to the increase in the price of the scrip.

Around the same time, the promoters of the company transferred the

shares to other connected entities through off-market. Subsequently,

some of the connected entities circulated bulk SMS from July 25, 3 2014 to July 28, 2014 containing unsolicited advice recommending

purchase of shares of the company. Thereafter, 17 connected entities

and two promoters off-loaded their shares of the company on

platform of the stock exchange. It was also alleged that connected

entities have traded among themselves and thereby created an

impression of artificial volume generation which led to gullible

investors to invest in the scrip of the company. 3. In the light of the aforesaid modus operandi, it was alleged in

the show cause notice that the noticees devised a scheme and artifice

to dump shares from July 25, 2014 onwards in a pre-planned scheme,

namely, by sending unsolicited bulk messages to investors and

inducing them to buy the scrip. 4. After considering their replies and after hearing the parties, the

WTM came to the conclusion that a fraud had been committed by the

appellants and other entities. In so far as the appellant is concerned,

a finding was given that the appellant received the shares from the

promoter Abhijeet Dwarkadas Daga, noticee No. 14 as a gift and

thereafter offloaded the shares of the company. Accordingly, the

WTM instead of passing an order of disgorgement against the

appellant only passed an order debarring him from accessing the

securities market for a period of two years. 5. We have heard Mr. Pulkit Sharma, the learned counsel with

Mr. Aditya Bhansali, the learned counsel and Ms. Nirali Sunil Mehta,

Practicing Company Secretary for the appellant and Mr. Shyam

Mehta, the learned senior counsel with Mr. Nishit Dhruva,

Mr. Hridhay Khurana, Mr. Yash Garach, the learned counsel for the

respondent through video conference. 6. The contention of the learned counsel for the appellant is, that

the modus operandi clearly indicated that the alleged noticees

including the appellant had acted in concert, planting misleading

SMS to gullible investors which is alleged to be a fraud under the

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent

and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market)

Regulations, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as 'PFUTP Regulations').

It was contended that the scrips were transferred off-market prior to

July 25, 2014, the bulk messages were sent from July 25, 2014 till

August 2, 2014. It was contended that the appellant was nowhere in

the picture at that time and that he received the shares only in August

2014 and had sold it in September 2014. Thus, it was contended that

he was never part of the scheme as the entire modus operandi

occurred prior to August 2014 before the appellant purchased the

shares. It was further alleged that the WTM has proceeded on the 5 basis that he had received the shares off-market as a gift whereas the

appellant had purchased the shares and had made the payments to

noticee No. 14 through banking channel which is reflected in the

bank statement of the appellant's account. Proof of the bank

statement etc. was supplied by the appellant in its reply on October 9,

2018, but for the reasons best known to the WTM, this was not

considered and the appellant has been found guilty of the violation. 7. Having heard the learned counsel for the appellant, we found

that the arguments in the first flush appears to be attractive but after a

closer scrutiny, we find that the arguments cannot be allowed to

stand. Whereas the appellant may be correct in contending that he

was not a part of the modus operandi as he had acquired the shares

only in August 2014 and could not be part of the conspiracy of

sending unsolicited messages to gullible investors, however, the

same has no affect in so far as the transactions made by the appellant

is concerned. The contention that the appellant had paid the

consideration to noticee No. 14 for the purchase of the scrip is not

correct in the way it has been alleged by the appellant. We find that

the Delivery Instruction Slip (DIS) through which the shares were

transferred contained an endorsement that it was a gift given to the

appellant by noticee No. 14. Further, we find from the bank

statement given by the appellant that the payments were made to 6 noticee No. 14 as and when he sold the shares through stock

exchange platform. Thus, we are of the opinion that the appellant

received shares from the promoter noticee No. 14 to sell the same on

his behalf on the stock exchange platform. As and when he sold the

shares he paid the money to the noticee No. 14. Thus, it is a clear

case where the appellant was acting on behalf of the noticee no. 14.

In this regard, we find that the appellant has received 2,00,000 (Two

Lacs) shares through off-market transfer from noticee No. 14 on

August 29, 2014. Between September 1, 2014 to September 18,

2014, the appellant had sold the shares on Bombay Stock Exchange

Ltd. (BSE) and National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE)

platform. A perusal of the bank statement indicates that the appellant

had transferred the amount to noticee No. 14 on September 9, 2014,

September 15, 2014, September 17, 2014 and September 20, 2014. It

is clear that no consideration was paid by the appellant at the time of

the off-market transfer by noticee No. 14 to him and the payments

were made only when the appellant sold the shares on the stock

exchange platform. 8. We are, therefore, satisfied that the impugned order does not

suffer from any error of law. The appeal lacks merit and is dismissed

with no order as to costs. 9. The present matter was heard through video conference due

to Covid-19 pandemic. At this stage it is not possible to sign a copy

of this order nor a certified copy of this order could be issued by the

Registry. In these circumstances, this order will be digitally signed

by the Private Secretary on behalf of the bench and all concerned

parties are directed to act on the digitally signed copy of this order.

Parties will act on production of a digitally signed copy sent by fax

and/or email. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Justice M. T. Joshi
 Judicial Member Digitally signed 06.10.2021 RAJALA byRAJALAKSHMI
 KSHMI HDate: