1. By way of the present application under Section 438 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973, the applicant original accused has prayed to
release him on anticipatory bail in case of his arrest in connection with the
FIR registered as No.11211025200527 of 2020 before Joravarnagar Police
Station, District: Surendranagar for the offences under Sections 386 , 323 , 504 , 506(2) , 507 , 114 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 5 , 33(3) , 38 , 40 and 42 of the Gujarat Money Lenders Act. 2. Heard Mr. Rafik Lokhandwala, learned advocate for the applicant and
Mr. Hardik Soni, learned APP for the respondent. 3. Mr. Lokhandwala, learned advocate for the applicant submits that the
applicant has no criminal antecedents. It is his submission that the impugned
FIR is a counterblast to the FIR lodged against the complainant, his father and
brother for cheating farmers including the applicant. He submits that the
applicant is one of the witnesses in the said FIR. He, therefore, submits that
considering the nature of allegations and evidence, the applicant may be
enlarged on anticipatory bail on appropriate conditions. R/CR.MA/17858/2020 ORDER 4. Mr. Soni, learned APP has opposed this bail application. He submits
that the applicant and the co-accused had mounted huge pressure on the
father of the complainant in respect of recovery of the loan given to the father.
He submits that the father of the complainant has left the house because of
the harassment by the applicant and co-accused person. It is his further
submission that the father of the complainant has not returned home so far.
He submits that the possibility of kidnapping or murder of the father of the
complainant by the present applicant and co-accused would be known only
after the applicant and co-accused are arrested. He, therefore, submits that
looking to the serious nature of allegations, the applicant may not be enlarged
on anticipatory bail. However, he submits that if the Court is inclined to
release the applicant on anticipatory bail, reasons may not be assigned
on the merits of the case. 5. Heard the learned Advocates for the respective parties and perused
the papers. 6. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties and perusing the
record of the case and taking into consideration the facts of the case, nature
of allegations, role attributed to the accused, without discussing the evidence
in detail, at this stage, I am inclined to grant anticipatory bail to the applicant.
This Court has also taken into consideration the law laid down by the Hon'ble
Apex Court in the case of Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre vs. State of
Maharashtra and Ors. as reported at [2011] 1 SCC 6941, wherein the
Hon'ble Apex Court reiterated the law laid down by the Constitutional Bench in
the case of Shri Gurubaksh Singh Sibbia & Ors., as reported at (1980) 2
SCC 665. 7. In the result, the present application is allowed by directing that in the
event of applicant herein being arrested pursuant to FIR registered as
No.11211025200527 of 2020 before Joravarnagar Police Station, District: 8. Despite this order, it would be open for the Investigating Agency to
apply to the competent Magistrate, for police remand of the applicant. The
applicant shall remain present before the learned Magistrate on the first date
of hearing of such application and on all subsequent occasions, as may be
directed by the learned Magistrate. This would be sufficient to treat the
accused in the judicial custody for the purpose of entertaining application of
the prosecution for police remand. This is, however, without prejudice to the
right of the accused to seek stay against an order of remand, if, ultimately,
granted and the power of the learned Magistrate to consider such a request in
accordance with law. It is clarified that the applicant, even if, remanded to the
police custody, upon completion of such period of police remand, shall be set
free immediately, subject to other conditions of this anticipatory bail order. At
the trial, the Trial Court shall not be influenced by the prima facie observations
made by this Court while enlarging the applicant on bail. Rule is made Page 3 of 4 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 18 02:46:16 IST 2020 R/CR.MA/17858/2020 ORDER

absolute. Application is disposed of accordingly. Direct service is permitted. (A.G.URAIZEE, J)
NAIR SMITA V./zgs Page 4 of 4 Downloaded on : Fri Dec 18 02:46:16 IST 2020