The petitioner is before this Court calling in question order

dated 02-09-2022 passed by the 5th respondent/Assistant Director,

Directorate of Enforcement directing freezing of the account of the

petitioner invoking Section 17(1- A) of the Prevention of Money

Laundering Act, 2002 ('the Act' for short). 2. Brief facts that lead the petitioner to this Court in the

subject petition, as borne out from the pleadings, are as follows:- 3. Heard Sri Avi Singh, learned counsel appearing for the

petitioner; Sri K.N.Krishna Rao, learned counsel appearing for 5 respondent No.1 and Sri Madhukar Deshpande, learned counsel

appearing for respondents 2 to 5. 4. The learned counsel appearing for petitioner would

vehemently contend that the orders which direct debit freeze are

void ab initio and they are in complete disregard to the procedural

safeguards inasmuch as there are no reasons to believe for

directing freeze of the account of the petitioner. He would contend

that procedural compliance in terms of Section 17 of the Act is

mandatory and not ancillary. It is his submission that freezing of

bank account of the petitioner is a draconian act which would entail

serious civil consequences and if the statute directs performance of

act of freezing in a particular manner, the respondents cannot

deviate from the said procedure and if there is deviation it would

become non est in the eye of law. He would submit that the present

proceeding is non est in the eye of law and seeks quashment of the

same. 5. On the other hand, the learned counsel representing

respondents 2 to 5 would seek to refute the submissions to contend

that reasons to believe is found in the file. It is not disclosed to the 6 petitioner at the outset. What is challenged now is only a show

cause notice issued to the petitioner. It is always open to the

petitioner to urge all these grounds before the Adjudicating

Authority who has issued the show cause notice. The petition

challenging only a notice is premature. It is his contention that the

account of the petitioner is used by several Payment Gateways and

other Payment Gateways are thus money actions who have links to

Chinese apps and, therefore, there is a serious conspiracy that has

to be unearthed only by way of investigation. He would submit that

the petition be rejected as none of the grounds urged by the

petitioner are tenable. 6. In reply, the learned counsel for the petitioner would take

this Court to the documents appended to the petition to

demonstrate that there is no search conducted in the office of the

petitioner and no seizure happens from the office of the petitioner.

Merely because the petitioner has used Razorpay or Cashfree which

are Payment Gateways to disburse loans to lonees it would not

mean that the petitioner is also involved in any of the activity of

those Payment Gateways. He would seek to place reliance upon 7 several judgments of the Apex Court and that of this court.

Considering their relevance, they would be noticed in the course of

this order. 7. The status of the petitioner is not in dispute. It is germane

to notice certain background facts that leads to initiation of the

proceedings by the Enforcement Directorate which has driven the

petitioner to this Court. 15 First Information Reports are registered

by the Cyber Crime Police Station, Bangalore City for offences

punishable under Sections 120B , 384 , 419 and 420 of the IPC

against numerous entities in connection with their involvement of

their extortion and harassment to public who have availed small

amount of loans through mobile apps being run by several entities.

Based upon the crimes so registered in those predicate offences

search and seizure proceedings were initiated against 5 applications - Razorpay Software Private Limited, Cashfree Payments India

Private Limited, Paytm Payment Services Limited and Fast App

Technology Private Limited. Based upon the search conducted

against those Payment Gateways names of 111 entities figured. 8 8. The entities are now alleged to be controlled/operated by

citizens of China who have gained access by using forged

documents of Indians and by making few Indians as contractors of

those entities. During the course of investigation, certain details

were received from Rozarpay, Cashfree and Paytm payments who

had huge transactions in the Merchant IDs. Based upon the said

predicate offences, proceedings under the Act were initiated by the

aforesaid search and seizure. The crux of the allegation against all

these companies who are alleged to have dummy contractors on

behalf of Chinese citizens was that they would grant small loans to

individuals without any documentation, after that they direct those

gullible customers to download an app and from the app seek

access to the contents of smart phones, grant loans and

immediately thereafter begin to blackmail those named gullible

customers. Therefore, the allegation of extortion and harassment of

public at mass levels of the said entities were unearthed albeit,

prima facie, from the investigation both in the predicate offences

and offences under the Act. 9. While the conduct of search and seizure of the afore-

quoted five Payment Gateways transactions of the lonees with the

petitioner company emerged; not only the petitioner, but there

were several companies like that of the petitioner whose app was

used for the aforesaid loan transactions. It is not in dispute that

the petitioner's company did have loan transaction with Razorpay.

Based upon the aforesaid allegations, a seizure memo was drawn

up and freezing orders under sub-sections (1) and (1A) of Section

17 of the Act were issued. The seizure memo reads as follows: We, the abovenamed panchas having been called upon by
 Shri Ajay Kumar Vaidya, Assistant Director, Enforcement
 Directorate, Bengaluru Zonal Office, 3rd Floor, B-Block, BMTC,
 K.H.Road,Shanthinagar Bus Stand, Bengaluru 560 027, have
 presented ourselves at the office of M/s Cashfree Payments
 India Pvt.Ltd., situated at Vaishnavi Summit, No.6/B, 80 Feet
 Road, 1A Block,3rd Block, Koramangala, bengaluru-560 034.
 Here we were shown an authorization No.05 of 2022 dated 1-
 09-2022 issued by Dr. Manish Godara, Joint Director,
 Enforcement Directorate, Bengaluru Zonal Office, under Section 10 17 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of
2003) authorizing Shri Ajay Kumar Vaidya, Assistant Director to
conduct search, seizure or freezing of records/ properties
related to certain entities/persons for the purpose of
investigation under PMLA, 2992 at the above mentioned
premise. Shri Navdeep Singh, Enforcement Officer and
Shri Gowtham Dirisala, Assistant Enforcement Officer
also accompanied Shri Ajay Kumar Vaidya, the authorized
officer during the search. We as well as Shri Om Prakash
Pandey, Nodal Officer of M/s Cashfree Payments India
Pvt.Ltd., put our dated signatures on the authorization in token
of having seen the same. The search started at 11.00 hrs on
2.09.2022 and concluded at 19.00 hrs on 2-09-2022. During the
course of search, the details of account Numbers/Merchant IDs
held in the name of various entities /persons which are being
investigated under the provisions of the Prevention of Money
Laundering Act , were found. Since the Merchant IDs and the account numbers
found during the instant search proceedings cannot be
seized, the same have been frozen by the Authorised
officer by issuing an Order of Freezing under Section
17(1A) of PMLA, 2002 to M/s Cashfree Payments India
Pvt.Ltd. and the concerned banks. A copy of the same
has been served to Shri Om Prakash Pandey, Nodal
Officer of M/s Cashfree Payments India Pvt. Ltd. by hand.
As a result of search, an inventory was prepared
regarding the frozen balances in the merchant IDs
maintained with M/s Cashfree Payments India Pvt.Ltd. as
per the details given in the Schedule 'A' below. It was
also witnessed by us that the authorized officer found
various bank accounts held int eh name of certain
entities/person being investigated under PMLA and M/s
Cashfree Payments India Pvt.Ltd. does not have any
information about the balance lying in the said bank
accounts, hence, for the purpose of securing the balance
lying in the said accounts (if any), the authorized officer
issued freezing order to the concerned banks to freeze
the said accounts which are mentioned in the Schedule
'B' below. The search was conducted in a peaceful and orderly
 manner and no damage to the person or property was
 caused during the course of search." (Emphasis added)

The seizure memo indicated that Merchant IDs and account

numbers found during the search proceedings which could not be

seized have been directed to be frozen by the Authorised Officer by

issuing an order under Section 17(1A) of the Act to M/s Cashfree

Payments India Pvt.Ltd., and all connected Banks and its accounts.

The Schedule appended to the said seizure memo contains two

transactions in the name of Waterelephant Technologies Private

Limited, at Sl.Nos.82 and 92. The petitioner had a service

agreement with Waterelephant Technologies Private Limited. The

agreement was drawn on 17-01-2020. The agreement was for the

purpose of identification of qualified borrowers; opening and

operation of a collection account; collection of receivables and

certain roles and responsibilities. This agreement comes to be

terminated by the petitioner after about one year of its existence on

07-01-2021, by a simple communication invoking termination

clause in the agreement. There is no reason indicated as to why the

termination comes about all of a sudden. 10. It is not in dispute that the petitioner was in the business

of disbursing small loans by loan agreements that would be signed

between the parties. One of such agreement is also appended to

the petition as an illustration. Therefore, it is a fact that the

petitioner was disbursing small loans to small borrowers, through

Cashfree Payments or Razorpay or any other Payment Gateway and

did have an agreement with Waterelephant. Waterelephant

Company is said to have had several transactions and its Directors

are said to be Chinese. The link travels in this manner. It now

become germane to notice the panchanama that was drawn while

the office of Razorpay was searched and it reads as follows: We, the above named panchas having been called upon
 by Shri Karan Sharma, Assistant Director, Directorate of
 Enforcement, 3rd Floor, B Block, Shanthinagar TTMC, BMTC, KH 13 Road, Bengaluru 560 027 have presented ourselves at the
office premises of M/s Razorpay Solutions India Pvt. Ltd.
i.e., SJR Cyber Laskar, Hosur Road, Adugodi Bengaluru
560 030, at 10.00 hours on 2-09-2022. Here we were shown
an authorization bearing No.04/PMLA/2022, issued by Dr.
Manish Godara, Joint Director, Directorate of Enforcement,
Bangalore under Section 17(1) of the Prevention of Money
Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003) and Rule 3 of the Prevention
of Monoey Laundering (Forms, Search and Seizure and the
manner of Forwarding the Reasons and Material to the
Adjudicating Authority, Impounding and Custody and Records
and the Period of Retention) Rules, 2005, authorizing Shri Karan
Sharma, Assistant Director, Directorate of Enforcement to
conduct search and seizure or freeze any record or property.
The said officer informed us that he has reasons to believe that
certain incriminating documents related to the offence of money
laundering have been secreted and hence he intends to cause
the search. Later he introduced his colleague officers' viz., Shri
Sushil Mali, Enforcement Officer and Sri Ankit Raj Thakkar,
Assistant Enforcement Officer. Thereafter, the said officer along with his staff enquired
about the in-charge of the said office premises of M/s Razorpay
Software Pvt. Ltd. from the receiptionist and it is found that Mr.
Abhishek Abhinav Anand, Senior Manager of Razorpay was here
to extend full cooperation on behalf Razorpay. Thereafter, the
said officer showed the said search Warrant to Mr. Abhishek
Abhinav Anand and took his signature on the said Search
Warrant for having seen the same and thereafter entered the
said premises of M/s Razorpay Software Pvt. Ltd. at SJR Cyber
Laskar, Hosur Road, Adugodi, Bengaluru-560 030 at 10.10 hrs.
While starting the search proceedings, the said officials of the
Enforcement Directorate offered their personal search to Mr.
Abhishek Abhinav Anand, while was politely declined by Mr.
Abhishek Abhinav Anand. The search of the said premise commenced at 10.30
hours on 2-09-2022. The search proceedings conducted in our
presence by the said Assistant Director and other accompanied
staff and during the search proceedings, no documents were
seized by the members of search team and NIL Panchama was
drawn by them after the search. However, freezing order u/s 14 17(1A) of PMLA has been issued in respect of the Merchant IDs
 and a/c nos. found in r/o the 111 entities during the search. During the course of the search, Mr. Pushkar
 Deshapande, Associate Director (Risk Management) in M/s
 Razorpay Software Pvt. Ltd. and Mr. Satyanarayana Kunapuli,
 Senior Vice-President (Finance) of M/s Razorpay Software Pvt.
 Ltd. gave their sworn statement n our presence. No threat,
 coercion or inducement was used by the officers for getting the
 said statement of Mr. Pushkar Deshpande and Mr.
 Satyanarayana Kunapuli. Thesearch concluded at 19.45 hours
 on 2-09-2022. During the entire course of search at the
 premises, no harm was caused to the inmates or the premises
 as above. During the entire search proceedings, no
 force/coercion was used against the inmates and also no harm
 was caused to inmates or to the property. During the entire
 proceedings, no religious sentiments were hurt. The search
 ended in a peaceful manner and all protocols related to Covid-
 19 were followed." Based upon the said search and seizure, the seizure memo along

with all materials is placed before the Adjudicating Authority. The

Adjudicating Authority then on 14-10-2022 issues a show cause

notice to the petitioner. The reasons recorded for issuing the said

show cause notice, is also appended to the notice and it reads as

follows: (Emphasis added)

The reasons recorded are that FIRs were registered against several

companies which alleged that such entities were incorporated by

appointing dummy Directors on behalf of Chinese citizens. Many

Indian citizens had been made Directors in these entities on the

instructions of such Chinese entities without making those Indian

citizens aware that they were appointed as Directors. Therefore,

those companies were completely controlled by Chinese entities or

individuals is the prima facie material in the investigation. The

transactions with the aforesaid five Payment Gateways is through

Waterelephant and Waterelephant had an agreement with the 19 petitioner. Based upon the said material and the reasons so

rendered supra, the show cause notice is issued. It is this show

cause notice along with the direction to freeze the account of the

petitioner which has been called in question, on the contention that

it is in blatant violation of Section 17 of the Act. Therefore, it

becomes germane to notice Section 17 of the Act and it runs as

follows: section (1) shall, immediately after search and seizure or upon
issuance of a freezing order, forward a copy of the reasons so
recorded along with material in his possession, referred to in
that sub-section, to the Adjudicating Authority, in a sealed
envelope, in the manner, as may be prescribed and such
Adjudicating Authority shall keep such reasons and material for
such period, as may be prescribed. (3) Where an authority, upon information obtained during
survey under Section 16 , is satisfied that any evidence shall be
or is likely to be concealed or tampered with, he may, for
reasons to be recorded in writing, enter and search the building
or place where such evidence is located and seize that evidence: section (1-A) shall, within a period of thirty days from such
 seizure or freezing, as the case may be, file an application,
 requesting for retention of such record or property seized under
 sub-section (1) or for continuation of the order of freezing
 served under sub-section (1-A), before the Adjudicating
 Authority." (Emphasis supplied)

Sub-section (1A) of Section 17 empowers the authorised officer

where is it not practicable to seize a record or property, to make an

order to seize such property whereupon the property shall not be

transferred or otherwise dealt with except with the prior permission

of the officer making such an order. This forms part of the said

provision for search and seizure. The provision further mandates

that within 48 hours the materials of search and seizure should be

placed before the Adjudicating Authority. 11. The contention now is that Section 17 of the Act has been

completely violated while conducting search and seizure. The said

contention is advanced on a solitary score that the authorized

officer had no reason to believe which are recorded in writing prior

to directing freezing of the account of the petitioner, as the

petitioner is neither an accused in the predicate offence nor in the 22 proceedings under the Act. The alleged offenders are different. It is

the submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner that no

freezing order can be passed without at the outset the authorized

officer coming to conclude that he has reasons to believe for issue

of direction of freezing of the account. 12. The submission of the learned counsel appearing for the

petitioner that there are no reasons to believe is sans substance.

The original records placed before this Court by the Enforcement

Directorate would clearly indicate several reasons directing freezing

of the account. It is not the total amount involved in the said

freezing order. It is the money trail that is required to be

investigated into which is being done against those entities with

whom the petitioner and several others admittedly had

transactions. Therefore, the money is transferred from the

petitioner through the Payment Gateway to the borrowers. 13. The petitioner claims that he is not the Director or any

Chinese citizen is involved in his company. If other companies have

involved, it is not its concern. This submission is noted only to be 23 rejected. The matter is still at the stage of investigation and what is

issued is a show cause notice directing the representative of the

petitioner to appear before the Adjudicating Authority. The

petitioner would have all the opportunities to urge all these grounds

urged now before the Adjudicating Authority in reply to the show

cause notice. The projection of procedural aberration by the

petitioner would not entitle entertainment of the petition, as there

is link in the money trail against the petitioner, as the transactions

have admittedly happened between Waterelephant and the

Payment Gateways and the agreement did subsist with the

petitioner and the Waterelephant. In the considered view of this

Court, this is enough circumstance for the Adjudicating Authority to

issue a notice to the petitioner. Unless the said notice is without

jurisdiction, entertainment of the petition at this juncture is not

warranted at the hands of this court. 14. Insofar as the judgments relied on by the learned counsel

appearing for the petitioner are concerned, much emphasis is laid

on the judgment rendered by the Apex Court in the case of OPTO 24 CIRCUIT INDIA LIMITED v. AXIS BANK AND OTHERS1 wherein

it is held as follows: Therefore, if the salutary principle is kept in perspective, in the
instant case, though the authorised officer is vested with
sufficient power; such power is circumscribed by a procedure
laid down under the statute. As such the power is to be
exercised in that manner alone, failing which it would fall foul
of the requirement of complying with due process under law.
We have found fault with the authorised officer and declared 26 the action bad only insofar as not following the legal
 requirement before and after freezing the account. This shall
 not be construed as an opinion expressed on the merit of the
 allegation or any other aspect relating to the matter and the
 action initiated against the appellant and its Directors which is
 a matter to be taken note of in appropriate proceedings if at
 all any issue is raised by the aggrieved party."

These paragraphs are relied on to buttress the submission that the

Apex Court was considering an identical issue which was a

challenge to the search and seizure order under Section 17 of the

Act and has held that unless there are reasons to believe, search

and seizure under Section 17 would be contrary to law. The facts

that fell for consideration before the Apex Court was that there was

no reason to believe, as reasons were not recorded in any of the

proceedings, by the Enforcement Directorate. The records that were

placed before the Apex Court also did not contain any reasons

recorded by the Authorised Officer, that would demonstrate reasons

to believe, for passing the said order. The Apex Court holds that in

terms of sub-section (1A) of Section 17 seizure orders can be

passed only, if there are reasons to believe and copy of those

recorded reasons along with the material in possession of the

Authorised Officer are forwarded to the Adjudicating Authority in a

sealed envelope. Even this was not available before the Apex 27 Court. In the case at hand, the Authorised Officer has recorded

reasons for directing freezement of account and has transmitted the

same to the Adjudicating Authority. Therefore, the said judgment

in the case of OPTO CIRCUIT is distinguishable on the facts

obtaining the case at hand without much ado. Thus tumbles down

the sheet anchor of the learned counsel appearing for the

petitioner. 15. All other judgments are with regard to the power of the

Enforcement Directorate to conduct search and seizure. Since the

petitioner has to answer the notice issued by the Adjudicating

Authority, any further reference being made to the case of the

petitioner is likely to prejudice his case before the Adjudicating

Authority. It is for the petitioner to submit his reply in defense and

thereafter it is for the Adjudicating Authority to consider the same

and pass appropriate orders in accordance with law. The petitioner

cannot presume or assume that the Adjudicating Authority would

not render justice to the case of the petitioner meeting all the

contentions that he would raise before the Adjudicating Authority

by way of reply to the show cause notice. I do not find any warrant 28 to interfere at this stage, as I do not find any violation of procedure

stipulated under Section 17 of the Act. 16. It is germane to notice that there is huge proliferation of

mobile loan apps and their modus operandi is in public domain. The

operation is alleged to be this way, a gullible borrower is given a

call and is lured into, for getting a small loan without any

documentation. All that the borrowers are informed is that they

should download the loan app and give access to the contents of

the smart phone. A small time borrower desirous of getting money

without any documentation would grab at the opportunity and

accept every condition and give access to his smart phone. It is

then the trouble crops up when the representatives of such mobile

loan apps/companies begin to haunt the borrower threatening

leakage of contents in the smart phone while seeking such

repayment. It is alleged in some cases that repayment is sought

16 to 20 times more than what a borrower has to pay as EMI. 17. It is again in public domain that several borrowers have

committed suicide unable to bear the harassments of the 29 representatives of such loan apps. The office bearers of several of

these companies which control and operate such mobile loan apps

are said to be entities of China or individuals from China sitting as

Directors of such mobile loan apps. Therefore, it becomes necessary

for an investigation, in the least to be conducted of any such

company who would operate such loan apps and has transactions

between each other. The investigation would be imperative, as any

effort of any neighbouring nation to destabilize this country, either

economically or otherwise, by any method which would touch upon

the security of the nation and safety of its citizens, cannot be

turned a blind eye to, and in certain cases, certainly in the case of

the petitioner, investigation cannot be stalled on this specious plea

of procedural aberration as alleged by the petitioner. 18. Finding no procedural infirmity as alleged by the

petitioner, I find no warrant to interfere with the impugned

proceedings at this juncture. The challenge to both the freezing

order and the show cause notice deserves to be rejected and the

defreezement order shall remain subject to the proceedings before

the Adjudicating Authority. 19. With all the aforesaid observations, the Writ Petition

stands rejected. Sd/- JUDGE

bkp
CT:MJ