The petitioner Preeti Bhatia has filed this application

 under section 439 Cr.P.C. seeking for bail in connection with RC

 Case No.47/S/2014-SCB/Kol. dated 5.6.2014 corresponding to

 SPE No.42 of 2014 pending in the Court of learned Special CJM,

 CBI, Bhubaneswar in which charge sheet has been submitted

 against her and others under sections 120-B, 294 , 341 , 406 , 409 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 506 read with section 34 Indian Penal Code 2 and section 3 , 4 and 5 of Prize Chits and Money Circulation

Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978. The petitioner was taken into

custody on 10.10.2014 and she moved an application for bail

before the learned Sessions Judge, Khurda at Bhubaneswar in Bail

Application No.1509 of 2014. The learned Sessions Judge vide

order dated 12.11.2014 considering the facts and circumstances

of the case, nature of the offences committed, seriousness of

economic offence, larger interest of the society and State and

moreover taking into account the progress of investigation was

pleased to reject the bail application. After rejection of the bail application on 12.11.2014 but

during pendency of this bail application, charge sheet was

submitted on 11.12.2014. 2. It reveals from the charge sheet that RC Case

No.47/S/2014-SCB/Kol. dated 5.6.2014 was registered treating

the First Information Reports of eight cases as original FIR of the

case pursuant to the direction of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

dated 9.5.2014 passed in Writ Petition (Civil) No.401 of 2013 filed

by Sri Subrata Chattoraj and Writ Petition (Civil) No.413 of 2013

filed by Sri Alok Jena. Those eight cases are Badambadi P.S. Case

No.5 of 2013 dated 5.1.2013, Kharvel Nagar P.S. Case No.44(4)

of 2013 dated 7.2.2013, Bhanjanagar P.S. Case No.95 of 2013 3 dated 2.5.2013, Angul P.S. Case No.282 of 2013 dated 3.5.2013,

Bargarh Town P.S. Case No.149 of 2013 dated 8.5.2013,

Paralakhemundi P.S. Case No.93 of 2013 dated 25.6.2013,

Kujanga P.S. Case No.262 of 2013 date 19.8.2013 and

Cantonment Road P.S. Case No.76 of 2013 dated 24.9.2013. The informants in those cases alleged that they along with

other depositors paid huge amounts to Artha Tatwa (AT) Group of

Companies for getting higher returns in terms of interests and

incentives under various schemes floated by AT Group of

Companies and cheap flats/plots under various projects

undertaken by the AT Group of Companies represented by its

Chief Managing Director Pradeep Kumar Sethy. The company

neither returned the amount due to the depositors/investors as

agreed upon nor constructed the flats as per agreement and also

did not sell the alleged land to the investors/depositors. When the

investors/depositors asked to refund the money paid to the

company, accused Pradeep Kumar Sethy and other Directors of

the company closed down the branch offices at various places of

Odisha as well as Head Office of AT Group of companies located at

SCR-29, Kharvelnagar, Unit-III, Bhubaneswar and vanished

overnight after duping thousands of gullible investors to hundreds

of crores of rupees. Investigation further revealed that accused 4 Pradeep Kumar Sethy and others, in furtherance of a criminal

conspiracy hatched among them, formed a number of companies

within a short period in quick succession and registered the

companies with the Registrar of Companies, Cuttack and also with

Registrar of Companies, Mumbai. One of such eleven companies

was PrismHeights Films and Entertainment Pvt. Ltd (hereafter for

short "PrismHeights Company"). As per the Memorandum of

Association and Article of Association, the main objective of

PrismHeights Company was to carry on the business of

production, marketing and distribution of feature films, telefilms,

documentary films, advertisement films, television shows, TV

serials, dramas, theatrical, arranging cultural shows and other

entertainment programs and software related thereto in India and

abroad. The investigation further disclosed as per charge sheet that

the petitioner was one of the Directors of PrismHeights Company.

As a Director of AT Group of Companies, she was actively involved

in the affairs of the AT Group and used to visit the Head Office of

AT Group frequently to attend the meetings of its Directors.

Investigation established that a sum of Rs.1,17,83,000/- (One

Crore Seventeen Lakhs Eighty Three Thousand only) was illegally

diverted to her personal account from the accounts of AT Group of 5 Companies without any justification which indicates that the

petitioner, in criminal conspiracy with accused Pradeep Kumar

Sethy, parked the said amount of Rs.1,17,83,000/- illegally

collected by AT Group of Companies in her personal account and

misappropriated the same. The charge sheet further revealed that the crime committed

by the petitioner and other co-accused persons is not a crime

against any individual but a crime against public at large having

wide ramification over the society. The innocent depositors, being

allured by the accused persons, invested their money with the AT

Group and ultimately lost their hard earned life time savings due

to the aforesaid acts of the accused persons. The charge sheet

further revealed that from the materials emerged during

investigation and from the circumstances of the case, it was prima

facie established that the petitioner along with the co-accused

persons entered into criminal conspiracy with each other and in

pursuance thereof they formed different companies, collected

money from the public with dishonest and fraudulent intention by

alluring them of higher returns and thereafter they cheated public

by depriving them of their eligible returns and also

misappropriated the collected amount. The investigation was kept open as per the provisions of section 173(8) Cr.P.C. as a lot of aspects of the case including the

money trail as desired by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, the role of

other accused persons/Directors, office bearers involved in Artha

Tatwa Group of Companies/Society was being looked into and

additional evidence/documents that might emerge during course

of further investigation were to be submitted. 3. The learned counsel for the petitioner Mr. Ajaya Kumar

Singh submitted that during course of investigation, the house of

the petitioner and her parents were raided by CBI but no

incriminating documents/materials pertaining to the Chit-Fund

Scam was found. He further submitted that on receipt of notice

under section 160 Cr.P.C., the petitioner attended the CBI office

on 23rd September 2014 and on three subsequent dates and on

each date she was properly interrogated by CBI. He further

submitted that the petitioner stated before the CBI authorities

during interrogations that as per the request of co-accused

Pradeep Kumar Sethy, PrismHeights Company was registered

before Registrar of Companies, Mumbai on 10.2.2010 and the

copies of the Bye-laws and Articles of Association of the Company

were also submitted to the CBI. It is further contended that the

petitioner was no way connected in the alleged Chit-Fund Scam in 7 any manner and in fact registration of PrismHeights Company was

done much prior to the registration of all the AT Group of

Companies of co-accused Pradeep Kumar Sethy. It is further

contended that co-accused Pradeep Kumar Sethy being the Chief

Managing Director of PrismHeights Company transferred a sum of

Rs.1,17,83,000/- to the company account of PrismHeights

Company and also to the account of the petitioner which were

used/spent for production of two TV serials namely "Andaz

Hamara Mastana" and "Hum Intezar Karenge" and 32 episodes

pertaining to both serials were completed but those serials could

not be telecast. It is further contended that series of 32 episodes

were handed over to the CBI officer for verification during the

interrogation. The learned counsel for the petitioner further

contended that the petitioner herself had invested huge amount

beyond that of Rs.1,17,83,000/- for completion of 32 episodes of

TV serials and the amount of Rs.1,17,83,000/- has not been

utilized/spent by the petitioner for her personal purpose but

utilized for payment of the dues/wages/salaries to various

persons whosoever participated for the preparation, production

and completion of the two TV serials through cheques. The

learned counsel further contended that the names and addresses

of all the beneficiaries in respect of Rs.1,17,83,000/- along with 8 the bank statements were duly furnished by the petitioner to CBI

officer but with malafide intention those documents were neither

taken note of nor were cited as documents in the charge sheet. It

is further contended that the petitioner was neither the Director of

AT Group of companies nor an agent nor a promoter/motivator

nor she had played any role with regard to collection of any

amount from the public by any of the AT Group of Companies. The learned counsel for the petitioner further contended

that the petitioner is in custody since 10.10.2014 and in the

meantime co-accused persons namely Ranjan Kumar Das and

Pravat Kumar Tripathy who were also charge sheeted by the CBI

have been released on bail by this Court in applications under section 439 Cr.P.C. Similarly another co-accused i.e., ex-Advocate

General Sri Ashok Mohanty has also been released on bail under section 439 Cr.P.C. by the learned Sessions Judge, Khurda at

Bhubaneswar. He further contended that that the petitioner is a

lady and her father is aged about 75 years who is suffering from

heart and other related diseases and is also bed ridden and her

mother is also a patient and there is no male member in the

family of the petitioner to maintain and look after them. It is

further contended that no useful purpose would be served in

keeping the petitioner in jail for indefinite period and taking into 9 account the proviso to section 437(1) Cr.P.C., the petitioner's bail

application should be favourably considered. He further contended

that the petitioner is ready and willing to furnish bank guarantee

as well as surety for her release on bail. 4. The learned Special Public Prosecutor Mr. K.

Raghavacharyulu being ably assisted by Mr. V. Narasingh raising

preliminary objection submitted that since the petitioner has not

moved the learned Court below after submission of charge sheet,

this bail application should not be entertained. It is further

contended that there are overwhelming materials as borne out

from the ongoing investigation which unerringly established the

petitioner's complicity in the "money trailing" and "larger

conspiracy" which were directed to be investigated by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court and the materials on record established close

nexus of the petitioner with co-accused Pradeep Kumar Sethy and

the petitioner is one of the Director of AT Group of companies and

it has also come during investigation that the main accused

Pradeep Kumar Sethy in furtherance of the criminal conspiracy

with other co-accused persons had formed number of companies

"to park ill-gotten money of AT Group" and PrismHeights

Company is one of such company in which the main accused and

the petitioner are the Directors. The learned counsel for the CBI drew the attention of this

Court to the statements of C.W.5 Ritish Nandan Padhi, C.W.22

Umasankar Acharya and C.W.33 Sanischar Samal to establish the

complicity of the petitioner. The learned counsel further

contended that unearthing of further materials during the ongoing

investigation against the petitioner cannot be ruled out and

therefore at this stage if the petitioner is enlarged on bail, it

would affect such further investigation. The learned counsel

further contended that the co-accused persons who have been

granted bail stand in different footings and the role of the

petitioner is at par with the main accused. It is further contended

by the learned counsel for the CBI that the petitioner is not a

resident of State of Orissa and once she is released on bail, it

would be difficult to secure her attendance. The learned counsel

further contended that during interrogation the petitioner was

specifically asked to produce the books of accounts relating to the

expenditure made for the production of two TV serials but she has

failed to produce the same. It is further contended that the

money was transferred by the main accused Pradeep Kumar

Sethy to the personal account of the petitioner out of which she

had given Rs.20 lakhs to her sister. It is further contended that no

agreement between the petitioner and the main accused for 11 production of the two TV serials was produced before the CBI

authorities even though specifically asked for to the petitioner.

The learned Special Public Prosecutor further contended that such

agreement was ordinarily expected had the investment been

made by the main accused for producing TV serials and therefore

the plea taken by the petitioner that the amount was transferred

for producing tele serials was nothing but an afterthought story

and from the inconsistent stand taken by the petitioner, it is

clearly established that the amount was not spent for production

of the tele serials as alleged but for her personal benefits. The learned counsel for the CBI further submitted that one

of the co-accused namely Madhusudan Mohanty who approached

this Court for grant of bail in BLAPL No.21677 of 2014 has not

been granted bail. He further submitted that it is an offence

against the community which was designed very coolly and

executed in a preplanned manner for which the poor and middle

class families have lost their hard earned money and since it is an

economic offence and money trailing is rather admitted by the

petitioner, it was urged that at this stage it would not be proper

to grant bail to the petitioner merely on the ground that she is a

lady. It is strenuously urged that the doctrine of parity is

remotely not applicable to the petitioner. 5. Let us first discuss the preliminary objection of the learned

Special Public Prosecutor regarding maintainability of the bail

application before this Court after submission of charge sheet. It

is contended that since the petitioner has not moved the learned

Court below for bail after submission of charge sheet, this bail

application should not be entertained. The Sessions Court as well as the High Court,both exercises

concurrent powers under Section 439 Cr.P.C. to go into the merits

of the matter so as to decide whether the applicant in judicial

custody has shown sufficient reasons or grounds for being

enlarged on bail. As a matter of practice, the applicant is required

to approach the Court of Sessions in the first instance and if relief

is denied, he approaches the High Court under section 439 Cr.P.C. itself, not as a superior Court sitting in appellate or

revisional jurisdiction over the order of the Court of Session, but

because the superior Court can still exercise its own jurisdiction

independently. The application seeking bail before the High Court

is accompanied by an order of the Court of Session rejecting a

similar prayer. The idea is to provide the superior Court with an

advantage of appraising itself with the grounds as considerations

which prevailed with the Court of Session in taking the view which

it did. In case of Twinkle Soni alias Rakesh Kumar Verma and

Bablu Yadav Vs. The State of Jharkhand reported in 2010

Criminal Law Journal 2213, where the matter was referred to a

larger Bench to decide as to whether for filing a bail application

before the High Court, is it necessary for the petitioner to move

before the trial court for his bail again when his bail application

was rejected earlier by the Hon'ble Court, a Division Bench of

Jharkhand High Court held as follows:- Thus I am of the view that merely because during pendency

of this bail application, charge sheet has been submitted, the

petitioner cannot be asked to withdraw the bail application from

this Court and to move again for bail in the Court of Special

C.J.M., CBI, Bhubaneswar and then in the event of rejection, to

approach the Sessions Judge, Khurda at Bhubaneswar and then

after rejection of bail by the said Court, to approach this Court

under Section 439 Cr.P.C. I am not inclined to accept the

contentions raised by the learned counsel for CBI that this bail

application is not maintainable as charge sheet has been filed. In

a case where bail application under Section 439 Cr.P.C. is rejected 15 by the Court of Sessions during course of investigation and the

applicant applies for bail to the High Court and by the time of

consideration of the bail application, charge sheet is filed, the

applicant if he/she so likes has an option to withdraw the bail

application from the High Court to move the Court of Sessions

again but if he/she chooses not to do the same and to pursue the

bail application pending before the High Court, it is to be decided

on its own merits and during the hearing of the bail application,

High Court can take note of the factum of submission of charge

sheet and the materials which has come against the applicant in

the chargesheet. It is a question of somebody's liberty which also

touches the fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the

Constitution of India. If a person in custody approaching the High

Court for bail against the rejection order of the Court of Session

during course of investigation is denied of his valuable right of

adjudication of the bail on merit only on the ground of submission

of charge sheet at the time of consideration of the bail application

and is asked to approach the Court of Session again then certainly

it would be a travesty of justice. There cannot be any rationale to

show the door of Court of Session again to the applicant.

Therefore, I am of the view that this bail application is

maintainable. 6. Law is well settled that detailed examination of evidence and

elaborate discussion on merits of the case need not be undertaken

for grant of bail. The Court has to indicate in the bail order,

reasons for prima facie conclusion why bail was being granted,

particularly, when the accused is charged of having committed a

serious offence. In the case of Kalyan Chandra Sarkar -v-

Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav and Anr. reported in

2004 Supreme Court Cases (Criminal) 1977, it is held as

follows: In the case of Ram Govind Upadhyay -v- Sudarshan

Singh reported in 2002 Supreme Court Cases (Criminal)

688, it is held as follows:- In the case of Prahalad Singh Bhati -v- NCT, Delhi

reported in 2001 Supreme Court Cases (Criminal) 674, it is

held as follows:- In the case of Sanjay Chandra -V- CBI reported in AIR

2012 SC 830, it is held as follows:- 7. Let us analyse the contentions raised by the respective

parties keeping in mind the settled principles of law for

consideration of bail application. While it was urged by the learned counsel for the petitioner

that two of the co-accused persons have been granted bail by this

Court under section 439 Cr.P.C. and another was released on bail

by the Court of Session under section 439 Cr.P.C. and the

petitioner stands in the similar footing, it is countered by the

learned Special Public Prosecutor that bail application of one of

the co-accused has been rejected by this Court after submission

of charge sheet and the petitioner's case stands in a different

footing than the co-accused who have been enlarged on bail and

therefore she cannot claim parity with those co-accused persons. Parity cannot be the sole ground for grant of bail. It is one

of the grounds for consideration of the question of bail. There is

no absolute hidebound rule that bail must necessarily be granted

to the co-accused, where another co-accused has been granted

bail. Even at the stage of subsequent bail application when the

bail application of the co-accused whose bail had been earlier

rejected is allowed and co-accused is released on bail, even then

also the Court has to satisfy itself that, on consideration of more

materials placed, further developments in the investigations or 20 otherwise and other different considerations, there are sufficient

grounds for releasing the applicant on bail. If on careful scrutiny

in a given case, it transpires that the case of the applicant before

the Court is identically similar to the accused on facts and

circumstances who has been bailed out, then the desirability of

consistency will require that such an accused should also be

released on bail. A Judge is not bound to grant bail to an accused

on the ground of parity even where the order granting bail to an

identically placed co-accused contains no cogent reasons or if the

same has been passed in flagrant violation of well settled principle

of law and ignores to take into consideration the relevant facts

essential for granting bail. Such an order can never form the basis

for a claim of parity. It will be open to the Judge to reject

the bail application of the applicant before him as no Judge is

obliged to pass orders against his conscience merely to maintain

consistency. The grant of bail is not a mechanical act. Merely

because some of the co-accused, whom similar role has been

ascribed, has been released on bail earlier and State has not

moved the higher Court against the order in question for

cancellation, the power of the Court cannot be fettered to act

against conscience. In the case of Chandigarh Administration -v- Jagjit

Singh reported in [1995] 1 SCR 126, it is held as follows: "8...If the order in favour of the other person is
 found to be contrary to law or not warranted in the
 facts and circumstances of his case, it is obvious
 that such illegal or unwarranted order cannot be
 made the basis of issuing a writ compelling the
 respondent-authority to repeat the illegality or to
 pass another unwarranted order....The
 illegal/unwarranted action must be corrected, if it
 can be done according to law-indeed, wherever it
 is possible, the Court should direct the appropriate
 authority to correct such wrong orders in
 accordance with law-but even if it cannot be
 corrected, it is difficult to see how it can be made a
 basis for its repetition...Giving effect to such pleas
 would be prejudicial to the interests of law and will
 do incalculable mischief to public interest. It will be
 a negation of law and the rule of law". In case of Secretary, Jaipur Development Authority -

v- Daulatmal Jain reported in (1997) 1 SCC 35, it is held as

follows: The learned counsel for the petitioner placed the order of

this Court dated 29.1.2015 passed in BLAPL No.20395 of 2014

where co-accused Ranjan Kumar Das was granted bail. Ranjan

Kumar Das was an Advisor of AT Group of Companies and he

was stated to be working on a monthly remuneration and he

alongwith co-accused Pravata Kumar Tripathy played a vital role

in the registration of the "Artha Tatwa Multi-Purpose Cooperative

Society Ltd." It appears that the learned Judge in para-7 of the

order considering the nature of alleged involvement of the said

accused with AT Group of Companies and the amount said to

have been diverted to the accounts of the said co-accused and

his relatives together with his ailment for which he was suffering,

allowed the prayer for bail. It is pertinent to note that in that

case the co-accused Ranjan Kumar Das was suffering from Oral

Submucous Fibrosis (OSF) which was likely to lead to cancer. The learned counsel for the petitioner further relied upon

the order dated 3.3.2015 of this Court passed in BLAPL No.

26077 of 2014 in respect of co-accused Pravat Kumar Tripathy

wherein after noting down the prosecution case and the 23 contentions raised by the learned counsel for both the sides from

paragraphs 3 to 7 and the citations in paragraph-8 along with

the contentions raised by the respective counsels, the learned

court held in paragraph-9 of the order that considering the

nature of accusations as against the said co-accused and the

nature of evidence in support thereof, it was found to be a fit

case for admitting the petitioner to bail subject to certain

conditions. Pravata Kumar Tripathy was a member of Legislative

Assembly of Odisha from Banki Constituency and he stated to

have used his influence during registration of "Artha Tatwa Multi-

Purpose Cooperative Society Ltd." and received money to the

tune of Rs. 42 lakhs for patronizing the main accused Pradeep

Kumar Sethy to run the illegal business. The learned counsel for the CBI on the other hand produced

the order copy dated 23.12.2014 passed in BLAPL No.21677 of

2014 wherein while considering the bail of co-accused

Madhusudan Mohanty after submission of charge sheet, this Court

has been pleased to observe in paragraph-13 that the

involvement of the said co-accused in the commission of the

crime is prima facie made out and if he is released on bail then

there is every possibility of gaining over the witnesses.

Considering the greater and larger interest of the State and 24 society, this Court rejected the application for bail. Madhusudan

Mohanty was the Managing Director of M/s Tilakraj Publications

Pvt. Ltd. to whose accounts a sum of Rs.60,42,500/- was illegally

diverted from the accounts of AT Group. He had also collected a

sum of Rs.33,84,000/- through his employees from accused

Pradeep Kumar Sethy. The learned counsel for the CBI submitted that the ex-

Advocate General Ashok Mohanty who was granted bail by the

learned Sessions Judge, Khurda at Bhubaneswar stands in a

different footing in as much as the allegation against him was that

he had purchased a building located in Sector-11, Bidanasi,

Cuttack from accused Pradeep Kumar Sethy and though the sale

transaction was shown to be Rs.1,01,00,000/- but in fact co-

accused Ashok Kumar Mohanty had paid an amount of Rs.70

lakhs and thereby misappropriated the remaining amount of Rs.31

lakhs. The learned counsel for the CBI further submitted that the

allegations against the petitioner on the other hand is that she

was one of the Directors of PrismHeights Company and as a

Director of AT Group of Companies, she was actively involved in

the affairs of the AT Group and used to visit the Head Office of AT

Group frequently to attend the meetings of its Directors and a 25 sum of Rs.1,17,83,000/- was illegally diverted to her personal

account from the accounts of AT Group of Companies without any

justification because of the criminal conspiracy between the

petitioner and accused Pradeep Kumar Sethy and the said amount

has been misappropriated by her for which she is now taking a

plea to have spent the amount in the production of two tele

serials. The learned Special Public Prosecutor further contended that

co-accused Ranjan Kumar Das was granted bail, inter alia, mainly

on the ground that he was suffering from serious ailments and in

the order of co-accused Pravat Kumar Tripathy, no cogent reasons

have been assigned for grant of bail and case of co-accused Ashok

Mohanty is completely different and all of them stand in different

footings and therefore the orders passed in respect of co-accused

Ashok Mohanty, Ranjan Kumar Das and Pravat Kumar Tripathy

cannot be taken as parity for considering the bail application of

the petitioner. A judgment of the Court is only an authority for what it

actually decides and not every observation found therein nor

what logically follows from it and judgment of the Court is not to

be read mechanically as a Euclid's Theorem nor as if it was a

statute. What is of the essence in a decision is its ratio. The ratio 26 of any decision must be understood in the background of the

facts of that case. A little difference in facts or additional facts

may make a lot of difference in the precedential value of a

decision. In Padmasundara Rao -v- State of Tamilnadu

reported in AIR 2002 SC 1334, the Supreme Court had held

as under: After going through the allegations as leveled in the charge

sheet against the co-accused persons who have been released

on bail vis-à-vis allegations against the petitioner, I find that the

petitioner stands in a different footing and therefore the principle

of parity for grant of bail would not be applicable to the

petitioner. 8. The learned counsel for the CBI placed the statement of

C.W.5 Reetish Nandan Padhy who was the Branch Operations

Manager, HDFC Bank, Bhubaneswar and he has stated as to on

which dates right from 2009 till 2012, amount have been 27 transferred to the account of the petitioner from the accounts of

Artha Tatwa Food Mart Pvt. Ltd., Systematix Developers and

Builders Pvt. Ltd., Artha Tatwa Infra India Ltd., Artha Tatwa

Consultancy Pvt. Ltd., and from the accounts of Pradeep Kumar

Sethy. The total amount transferred was Rs.1,17,83,000/- (One

crore Seventeen lakh eightythree thousand). The learned counsel for the CBI further placed the

statement of C.W.22 Uma Sankar Acharaya who was Senior

Territory Manager of AT Group from 2009 till May 2013 and he

has stated that the petitioner Smt. Preeti Bhatia was one of the

Directors in PrismHeights Company and she used to motivate the

depositors to invest in AT Group of companies for higher return

and she was visiting the Head Office of AT Group at

Kharavelanagar quite frequently and crores of rupees have been

parked in her personal account as well as in the accounts of her

relatives. The learned counsel for the CBI further placed the

statement of C.W.33 Sanischar Samal @ Sanatan Samal who

was a driver with AT Group of companies since 2009 till 2013

who has stated that the petitioner was one of the Directors of

PrismHeights Company and she was frequently visiting

Bhubaneswar to attend the meetings of the Directors of AT 28 Group of Companies and he used to receive her at Biju Patnaik

Air Port, Bhubaneswar and drop her at the Head office of AT

Group of Companies at Kharvelnagar, Bhubaneswar and he has

further stated that crores of rupees have been diverted to the

personal account of the petitioner from the accounts of AT Group

of Companies and those amounts have not been spent for any

business activities of AT Group of Companies or PrismHeights

Company. The contentions raised by the learned counsel for the

petitioner that the amount was transferred by Pradeep Kumar

Sethy to the company accounts of PrismHeights also not found to

be prima facie correct in view of the statement of C.W.5 Reetish

Nandan Padhy as well as the documentary evidence produced by

the learned counsel for the CBI. Similarly there is no material to

indicate that from the company account of PrismHeights,

payments were made to different artists, writer, director,

cameraman etc. of the two tele serials. The contention of the

learned counsel for the petitioner that the petitioner had

produced all the documents before the CBI authorities during

course of her interrogation in support of the expenditure for the

two tele serials has been denied by the learned counsel for the

CBI. When it is the stand of the petitioner that on each date of 29 interrogation she was accompanied by her Advocate Sri A.K.

Singh to the CBI office at Bhubaneswar, it is not understood as

to how she failed to obtain any receipt from the CBI authorities

in token of the receipt of such valuable documents. There is no

seizure list of any such documents. The charge sheet also does

not indicate about the production of any such document by the

petitioner before the CBI authorities. Therefore, it prima facie

appears that it is an afterthought plea which cannot be accepted.

The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted Xerox copies of

the statement of accounts of PrismHeights and copy of the

statement of account of the petitioner by way of a list of

documents on 9.3.2015 and served the copy of such documents

on the very day on the learned Special Public Prosecutor, CBI.

The learned counsel for the CBI submitted that the matter is still

under investigation and the Investigating Officer would certainly

look into the relevancy of such copies of documents in the

context of the case. The learned counsel for the CBI further urged that the

investigation so far disclosed that from different accounts of AT

Group of Companies, there has been transfer of huge amount of

money to the accounts of Indu Dewan, who is the sister of the

petitioner and Bikram Dewan, who is husband of Indu Dewan. He 30 further submitted that role of the sister and brother-in-law of the

petitioner and their link with Artha Tatwa Group of Companies is

also being carried out. The learned counsel for the CBI submitted some more

documents in a sealed cover and I have gone through those

documents and since the matter is still under investigation, it

would not be proper to discuss all those documents in this bail

order. 9. Let us have a bird's eye view as to why investigations of Chit

Fund Scam cases were transferred from the State Agencies to

CBI. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Subrata

Chattoraj -v- Union of India and Ors. reported in (2014)

58 Orissa Criminal Reports (SC) 905 held as follows:- The question, however, is not whether the State
Police has faltered. The question is whether what is
done by the State Police is sufficient to inspire
confidence of those who are aggrieved. While we
do not consider it necessary to go into the question
whether the State Police have done all that it
ought to have done, we need to point out that
money trail has not yet been traced. The
collections made from the public far exceed the
visible investment that the investigating agencies
have till now identified. So also the larger
conspiracy angle in the States of Assam, Odisha
and West Bengal although under investigation has
not made much headway partly because of the
inter-State ramifications, which the Investigating
Agencies need to examine but are handicapped in
examining. xx xx xx 34. In the circumstances, we are inclined to allow
all these petitions and direct transfer of the
following cases registered in different police
stations in the State of West Bengal and Odisha
from the State Police Agency to the Central Bureau
of Investigation (CBI). xx xx xx

 B. State of Odisha: All cases
 registered against 44 companies 34 mentioned in our order dated
 26th March, 2014 passed in Writ
 Petition (C) No. 413 of 2013. The
 CBI is also permitted to conduct
 further investigations into all
 such cases in which charge
 sheets have already been filed." 10. There is no dispute that the case relates to commission of

economic offences. In the case of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy -v- CBI

reported in (2013) 55 Orissa Criminal Report (SC) 825, it is

held as follows:- In case of State of Gujurat -v- Mohan Lal Jitamalji

Porwal reported in AIR 1987 SC 1321, it is held as follows:- In case of Nimmagadda Prasad -v- CBI reported in

(2013) 7 Supreme Court Cases 466, it is held as follows:- 11. Let us consider the contention of the learned counsel for the

petitioner regarding favourable consideration of bail of the

petitioner being a woman in view of the proviso to section 437(1)

Cr.P.C. Under Section 437 (1) of the Code when a person accused

of, or suspected of, the commission of any non-bailable offence is

arrested or detained without warrant by an officer in charge of a

police station or appears or is brought before a Court other than

the High Court and Court of Session, he may be released on bail

by the Court subject to the conditions that he does not reasonably

appear to have been guilty of an offence punishable with death or

imprisonment for life. The conditions of not releasing the person

on bail charged with an offence punishable with death or

imprisonment for life shall not be applicable if such person is

under the age of 16 years or is a woman or is sick or infirm,

subject to such conditions as may be imposed. It does not,

however, mean that persons specified in the first proviso to sub-

section (1) of Section 437 should necessarily be released on bail.

The proviso is an enabling provision which confers jurisdiction

upon a Court, other than the High Court or Court of Session, to

release a person on bail who has appeared or brought before the

Court despite the fact that there appears reasonable ground for 37 believing that such person has been guilty of an offence

punishable with death or imprisonment for life. There is no

gainsaying that the discretion conferred by the Code has to be

exercised judicially. The overriding considerations in granting bail

which are common both in Section 437(1) and 439(1) of Criminal

Procedure Code are the nature and gravity of the offence, position

and status of the accused with reference to the victim and the

witnesses and likelihood of the accused fleeing from justice and

tampering with witnesses etc. Bail is a matter of procedural

privilege and not an accrued right until it is granted. The law is

the sentinel of rights of the Society and of the individual. The

cause of public justice and interest of society have to be zealously

guarded compared to the rights of an applicant. If the offence is

of such a nature which affects the vital interest of the society and

has adverse effect on the social and family life, in such matters

the issue is to be considered with reference to them and one of

the consideration which has to be weighed for granting or refusing

bail is the nature of the offence and its heinousness. Though the

beneficial provision relating to release of an accused under the

age of sixteen years or on the ground of being a woman or sick or

infirm has to be kept in mind while considering his/her bail in

spite of his/her involvement in an offence punishable with death 38 or imprisonment for life but at the same time the Court should

also give due weight to the other aspects like nature and gravity

of the offence etc. and also the adverse impact of the offence

committed on the society. 12. The learned counsel for the petitioner placed reliance in

case of Sanjay Chandra -v- CBI reported in AIR 2012 SC

830 wherein it has been observed that since charge sheet was

already submitted in the case in which the accused persons were

charged with economic offence of huge magnitude, the presence

of the accused persons in custody might not be necessary for

further investigation. It is further observed that alleged huge loss

to the State exchequer by itself should not deter the Court from

enlarging the accused persons on bail when there was no serious

contention that they, if released on bail, would interfere with the

trial or tamper with the evidence. It is further observed that right

to bail is not to be denied merely because of the sentiments of the

community against the accused. In my opinion, the case of Sanjay Chandra (supra) is

distinguishable from the case in hand. Firstly because, the

accused persons in that case were facing trial whereas in this case

the further investigation is under progress. Secondly, the Hon'ble

Court observed that charge in that case was that of cheating and 39 dishonestly inducing delivery of property, forgery for the purpose

of cheating and using as genuine a forged document and the

punishment of the offence is punishment for a term which may

extend to seven years. Hon'ble Court further observed that in

determining whether to grant bail, both the seriousness of the

charge and the severity of the punishment should be taken into

consideration. In the present case, charge sheet has been

submitted, inter alia, for the offence under section 409 IPC which

carries punishment for life imprisonment. 13. The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that

liberty of a woman has been curtailed for last five months and she

is languishing in jail custody. The learned Special Public

Prosecutor on the other hand submitted that the cool, calculated

design of some unholy combinations which includes some

politicians, police officials, executives and some influential persons

was the main reasons for the Chit Fund scam and if petitioner is

granted liberty by way of release from jail custody, the on-going

investigations is likely to be hampered. Liberty means responsibility. Liberty is not folly, vice and

madness for earning money by unethical means without restraint.

Liberty may be at risk if one abuses liberty. In case of Neeru Yadav -v- State of U.P. reported in

2014 (14) SCALE 59, it is held as follows:- 14. Considering the submissions of the respective parties and

on careful scrutiny of the materials available on record, it is found

that the petitioner was one of the Directors of PrismHeights

Company and she was directly involved in the affairs of the AT

Group of Companies. The contentions raised by the learned

counsel for the petitioner that the petitioner has not played any

active role with regard to the collection of any amount from the

public by AT Group of Companies is not acceptable in as much as

it has come on record that the petitioner used to motivate the

depositors to invest in AT Group of Companies for higher returns.

The further contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner

that she was neither the Director of AT Group of Companies nor

connected in the alleged Chit-Fund Scam prima facie appears to

be not correct as the materials on record indicate that the

petitioner was frequently visiting Bhubaneswar to attend the

meetings of the Directors of AT Group of Companies. There was

money trailing from the accounts of AT Group of Companies to

the personal account of the petitioner to the tune of

Rs.1,17,83,000/- from out of which she has given huge amount

to her sister and brother-in-law. The contentions that the amount 42 transferred from the accounts of AT Group of Companies to the

account of the petitioner were utilized by PrismHeights Company

for the payment of artists, directors, cameraman, staff etc. in the

production of tele serials is not borne out of the charge sheet and

there is also no documentary evidence in support of such

contentions. The further contention of the learned counsel for the

petitioner that names and addresses of the beneficiaries in

respect of Rs.1,17,83,000/- along with bank statements were

furnished to the CBI officials is also not borne out of the record.

No agreement between Pradeep Kumar Sethy and the petitioner

for production of the two tele serials through PrismHeights

Company or any books of accounts indicating production

expenses of such serials were produced by the petitioner before

the CBI. The materials on record further indicate that there was

deep-rooted criminal conspiracy between the petitioner and some

co-accused persons including accused Pradeep Kumar Sethy with

the patronage of some politicians, police officers, executives and

other influential persons as a result of which innocent depositors

were allured to invest their hard earned money with AT Group of

Companies and the petitioner being a motivator has played

crucial role in cheating the public and misappropriating more than

a crore of rupees. After bestowing my anxious consideration to weigh and

 analyse the materials available on record with utmost care and

 caution, the nature of accusations, the punishment prescribed for

 the offences under which charge sheet has been submitted,

 prima facie availability of supporting materials to establish such

 accusations, the continuance of further investigation to unearth

 many vital links, role played by the petitioner in the entire

 episode, the impact of such economic offences on the society

 particularly on the common man who are poor, downtrodden,

 underprivileged and belong to the middle class families waiting

 with distraught tearful eyes and anguish to get back their

 investment in spite of setting up of Commission of Enquiry to

 probe multi-crore Chit-Fund Scam by the State Government since

 July, 2013 and creation of Corpus Fund for the protection of

 interest of the depositors, merely because the petitioner is a

 woman and merely because some of the co-accused persons

 have been released on bail, in the larger interests of public and

 State, I am not inclined to release the petitioner on bail at this

 stage. Accordingly, the bail application stands rejected. .............................. S.K. Sahoo, J. Orissa High Court, Cuttack
The 16th March, 2015/Pravakar