FRIDAY,
THE TWENTY FIRST DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 

 

TWO
THOUSAND TWELVE 

 

Oral Order (Per Honble Sri Justice D.Appa Rao,
President) 

 

*** 

 

  

 

 The opposite party ICICI bank preferred
this appeal against the order of the District Forum directing it to refund an
amount of Rs.70,000/- with interest @ 9% p.a. from 01-11-2009 till realization
together with compensation of Rs.50,000/- and costs of Rs.5,000/-. The case of the complainant
in brief is that she worked as Senior Software Engineer in Value Labs at
Hi-tech city, Hyderabad. The employer had opened a corporate account
in her name and credited the salary directly into her account. The opposite
party bank issued a Titanium International Debit card for withdrawal of the
amounts through ATM and the debit card number being 5326661119000011. It had also informed that SMS alerts would be
given to her
as and when withdrawals and
deposits were made. Accordingly salary was being credited into her account and she was
withdrawing and receiving
SMS alerts. While so she had withdrawn Rs.2,000/- on
24-1-2010 through ATM card and on seeing statement slip, she found 7
transactions were done wherein a total of Rs.70,000/- was withdrawn on
11-1-2010 between 20.58 Hrs. and 21.21 Hrs. These were all unauthorized withdrawals without her knowledge. She did
not receive any SMS alerts. She
complained to the police as well as to the bank and also Customer care
centre. However, the bank did not show
any interest to solve the problem and failed to explain as to how these
transactions could find a place. Since the amounts were said to be withdrawn
from ATM belonging to opposite party No.3, Oriental Bank of Commerce, she
requested them to show the CCTV footage and furnish system generated statement
account; on the information furnished she could know that some unknown person
had withdrawn the amounts by using altogether
a different debit card bearing No. 5326661119000010. When she gave notice by furnishing the
particulars by narrating these facts, they neither gave a reply nor paid the
amount. The bank was not diligent in protecting
the interests of its customers
and her hard earned money was
allowed to be withdrawn by third parties. Therefore, she filed the complaint claiming Rs.70,000/- together with
interest at 24% p.a. from 11-1-2010 till the date of payment besides
compensation of Rs.2,00,000/- for mental agony, Rs.2,00,000/- for deficiency in
service, damages of Rs.20,000/- and costs of Rs.10,000/-. The appellant, ICICI bank, resisted the case. It admitted that the complainant was holding
an account and it had issued Titanium International Debit card for withdrawal
of the amounts through ATM centers. In
order to avoid frauds and to safeguard the interest of the customers, they had
informed that SMS alters would be given on mobile whenever withdrawals or
deposits were made. While admitting the
withdrawal of Rs.2,000/- on 24-01-2010 by the complainant, they deny that the
complainant had nothing to do with the withdrawals of Rs.70,000/- made on
11-1-2010. On receiving the complaint,
they had put in all the efforts to ascertain the fact through their internal
Risk Containment Unit (RCU). It is the customers responsibility to keep the
credit and debit cards in safe custody and maintain confidentiality of the pin
etc., It is liable only for any transactions that occur on lost or misplaced
card from the time the loss is reported. She had informed the mis-use of the card after a long gap of time. She did not choose to complain
immediately. When the debit card belongs
to a third party, the account of the complainant could not be transacted. The question of paying the amount will not
rise. The system was so developed to avoid
frauds, in fact, it is the complainant who has to keep the card with due
diligence without revealing the pin number to third parties. Therefore, they prayed for dismissal of the
complaint with costs. The
complainant in proof of her case filed her affidavit and Exs.A1 to A4 were
marked on her behalf while the opposite parties marked the affidavit evidence
of its Branch Manager and filed Exs.B1 to B8. The
District Forum after considering the evidence placed on record opined that the
amount from the account of the complainant has been withdrawn with different
card number evident from the statement of account furnished by Oriental Bank of
Commerce vide Ex.A4. The appellant bank
filed transaction slips Exs.B2 to B8 which did not tally with the statement issued
by Oriental Bank of Commerce and therefore the deficiency in service lies with
the appellant and therefore directed the appellant bank to refund an amount of
Rs.70,000/- together with compensation of Rs.50,000/- and costs of Rs.5,000/-. Aggrieved by the said order, ICICI bank preferred
the appeal contending that the District Forum did not appreciate either facts
or law in correct perspective. In order
to avoid frauds and safeguard the interests of its customers, SMS alerts are
given. The complainant did not
immediately complain about withdrawal by third parties. The amount was withdrawn by third parties as
she parted the confidential pin number of the debit card. In fact the National Commission in
R.P.No.3182/2008 had taken cognizance of these cases and opined that the banks
cannot be penalized, therefore, it prayed for dismissal of the complaint. The point
that arises for consideration is whether the order of the District Forum is
vitiated by any mis-appreciation of fact or law in that regard? It is
an undisputed fact that the complainant is having account with the appellant
ICICI bank having debit card facility to withdraw through ATMs. It is also not in dispute that the debit card
issued by the bank bears number 5326661119000011. The complainant alleges that on 24-1-2010 she
had withdrawn Rs.2,000/- and a SMS alert
was received along with ATM card statement slip. A perusal of the said slip showed that she
had withdrawn a sum of Rs.70,000/- on 11-1-2010 in 7 spells between 20.58 Hrs.
and 21.21 hours. When she complained to the appellant bank as well as the
Customer care centre, it has given a reply under Ex.A1, which we excerpt below
for better appreciation. Dear Ms.Kalyani 

 

Further to our email
of January, 28,2010, we wish to inform you that based on complaint we matter
for the disputed transactions of cash withdrawal from non ICICI ATM. As a process we
have raised a charge back/claim on the acquiring bank for the transactions
response to which we have received a valid proof from them indicating that the
funds have be dispensed. Also, the card
number mentioned on the document provided by them is your card confirm the
branch at which we can arrange to sent the documents so that you can view the
same. We understand that
video clippings have already been provided to you by Oriental Bank of
commerce. You were unable to identify
the person making the transaction. We
have not received the clipping like to inform you that as per NFS net work
operating rules, the Bank whose ATM was used to obligated to provide the CCTV
footage to the card issuing Bank. We would like to
state that the transaction disputed by you is a PIN based transaction. The rest the security of the card and PIN
lies with the card Member. As soon as
the bank is informed of card by the card
holder the card is hot listed/blocked at out end to prevent any misuse. In view of the above, we regret out
inability to reverse the funds. Though
the appellant bank had the statement of amounts withdrawn at ATM of oriental
Bank of commerce, without even verifying the card number with which the amount
was withdrawn, denied its responsibility to reimburse the amount. Evidently Ex.A4, statement of account
furnished by Oriental Bank of Commerce shows that the card that was used bears 5326661119000010. On the very same day, within few hours, by
using the above number a third party had withdrawn about Rs.70,000/-. The bank did not take up the matter with
Oriental Bank of Commerce as to how it could allow the amount to be withdrawn
by using altogether a different debit card bearing number
5326661119000010. When the debit card
that was given to the complainant bears 5326661119000011, the appellant bank
ought to have taken up the matter with Oriental Bank of Commerce to know
whether its ATM was faulty. The contention that the complainant had disclosed
her pin number to one of the family member is patently incorrect. Even if she
revealed, the card holder of 5326661119000010 could not have withdrawn on the
account of the card holder bearing No. 5326661119000011. It intends to get over
the transaction though knowing full that she did not part the details to a
third party. Moreso, the CCTV footage at the ATM revealed third party
withdrawing the amount. It is not the
case of the appellant bank that on verification,
it was one of the family members or person known to the complainant had
withdrawn the amount. There is CCTV
footage. It could have taken up with Police. Police did not allege that the complainant gave a false report.
Therefore, the contention that she must have disclosed the confidential pin
number for withdrawal of the amount by using debit card cannot be
accepted. The learned counsel for the appellant ICICI bank
relied on the decision reported in R.P.No.3182/2008 by Honble National Commission.
The decision relied by the appellant counsel is not relevant to the facts of
the case. It pertains to the same debit
card. We may also state herein, this is
a case where with altogether a different debit card, a third party had encashed
the amount. It is not that of the
complainant. she cannot be fount at fault obviously there is fault in the very
programming of the system. We may
state herein that the banks introduced ATMS in order to facilitate the
customers to withdraw the amount at whatever time convenient to them. It looks
as though the appellant bank is of the opinion that the system is full proof
where third parties cannot withdraw the amount without knowing the details like
pin number etc. It is still labouring
under such a mis-conception. This is a classic case, where the complainant
herself a computer expert, could demonstrate, how a third party could withdrew
her amount, by using another debit card, obviously a very nearer number to her
debit card number. Except the last two
numericals rest of the numbers tally. When sufficient information could be culled out from the credit card
number as we can see, it will not be difficult for the hackers to manipulate
the system and withdraw amounts. We reiterate that this system is not full
proof. The appellant bank ought to have
filed the affidavit of the persons, who had developed this programme to
demonstrate as to how by using a debit card as in this case allow a third party entering the account of the complainant to
withdrawn these amounts. He could have
otherwise proved that it is not possible. We reiterate that the amount was not withdrawn by using the debit card
of the complainant. Obviously as no
amount was withdrawn by using the debit card, no SMS alerts did go to the complainants mobile. This is still an area where the system is caving
in. It has become hacker friendly. It
cannot be said that the complainant resorted to a false complaint for a sum of
Rs.70,000/-. Having approached the
Police as well as bank for the loss of her amount and as they did not
investigate into it, she filed the complaint. It is not a case where she intended to benefit herself. The appellant bank dare not filed any
complaint against the complainant for misleading or defrauding the bank in
order to gain herself. It is not known
why the bank is hesitant to initiate any action either against their programmer
on the complaint or the bank where the transaction took place, when photographs
of person who withdrew amounts are available taken by CCTV cameras. We doubt the very credibility of the bank in
these transactions. The complainant
could demonstrate how a third party could withdraw her amount by using his card
which has nothing to do with the card of the complainant. Necessary the bank is liable to take whatever
action it intended either with opposite party No.3 or its own programmer. So far as the complainant is concerned, it is
bound to refund the amount. The District
Forum has awarded a sum of Rs.50,000/- towards mental agony for the loss of
Rs.70,000/- which we feel is on the higher side. Considering the circumstances and inaction of
the bank, we are of the opinion that the complainant is entitled to Rs.25,000/-
towards mental agony. In the
result this appeal is allowed in part modifying only the part of order awarding
compensation and by reducing the same from Rs.50,000/- to 

 

Rs.25,000/-. However, the rest of the order of the District
Forum is confirmed. In other words, the
appellants are directed to refund Rs.70,000/- together with interest at 9% p.a.
from 01-11-2009 till the date of realization together with compensation of Rs.25,000/-
and costs of Rs.5,000/-. The complainant
is also entitled to costs of Rs.5,000/- in this appeal. Time for compliance one month. Sd/-PRESIDENT. Sd/-MEMBER. . JM Dt.21-9-2012