(8.9.2008)

 Since all the aforesaid appeals arise out of a common

judgment dated 24.6.2009 passed by the Sessions Judge,

Rajnandgaon in Sessions Trial No. 10/2008, they are disposed

of by this common judgment. 2. These Criminal Appeals ( Cr.A. 607/2008, 671/2008,

712/2008 and 633/2008 ) are directed against the judgment of

conviction and order of sentence dated 24.6.2008 passed by

the Sessions Judge Rajnandgaon, in Sessions Trial No. 10/2008 

whereby accused/appellants Dayanand alias Golu has been 

convicted for the offence punishable under section 489 (a),

489 (c) and 489 (d) of the Indian Penal code and sentenced to

undergo rigorous imprisonment for five years and pay fine of

Rs. 2000/- u/s 489 (a), to undergo rigorous imprisonment for

three years and pay fine of Rs. 2000/- u/s 489 (c) and to

undergo rigorous imprisonment for five years and pay fine of

Rs. 2000/-. In default of payment of fine he shall undergo

simple imprisonment for two months for each offence. Accused/appellants Ajay Dubey and Mukesh Tiwari have

been convicted under sections 489 (b) and 489 (c) of the

Indian Penal Code and sentenced to undergo rigorous

imprisonment for five years and pay fine of Rs. 2000/- each

u/s 489 (b) and to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three

years and pay fine of Rs. 2000/- each u/s 489 (c) of the

Indian Penal Code. In default of payment of fine they shall

undergo simple imprisonment for two months each on each

count. Accused/appellants Reman Mandekar, Uttam and Ballu alias 

Balram have been convicted under sections 489 (c) of the

Indian Penal Code and sentenced to undergo rigorous

imprisonment for three years and pay fine of Rs. 2000/-, in

default of payment of fine to undergo simple imprisonment for

two months each. Sentences imposed on all the

accused/appellants shall run concurrently. 3. The judgment of the trial Court is challenged on the

ground that without there being any credible and reliable

evidence regarding the fact that the applicants were in

possession of the fake or counterfeit currency notes having

the knowledge that the currency notes which were counterfeit

or fake, the trial Court had committed an illegality by

conivicting and sentencing them as aforementioned. 4. The case of the prosecution in brief is that on

26.11.2007 when Investigating Officer Pramod Rusiya,

Assistant Sub Inspector, District Crime Branch, Rajnandgaon,

was on patrolling duty, he received an information that at

village Bajrangapur Navagaon, accused/appellant Ajay Dubey

was possessing counterfeit currency notes. He recorded the

Rojnamcha Ex. P-30 and went to the spot i.e. village

Bajrangpur Navagaon where he called Panch witnesses namely 

Kamlesh Dewangan (PW-3) and Gyaneshwar Mishra (PW-4). 

Accused/appellant Ajay Dubey informed him regarding the

possession of Computer, Printer, Pencil, Watermark paper with

accused/appellant Dayanand alias Golu. Counterfeit currency

notes were in his possession and also in possession of

accused/appellants Ballu alias Balram, Mukesh, Dayanand alias 

Golu, Reman and Uttam. Dehati Nalishi Ex. P-2A was recorded. 

Accused/appellant Ajay Dubey made disclosure statement about 

the possession of computer, printer, watermark paper, pencil

with accused/appellant Dayanand alias Golu.

Accused/appellants Dayanand, Mukesh, Ballu, Reman and Uttam 

were having counterfeit currency notes of 500 and 100

denominations in their shops vide Ex. P-3. On the basis of

his disclosure statement he produced 10 counterfeit currency

notes of 500 denomination and 46 counterfeit currency notes

of 100 denomination. Same were recovered vide Ex. P-7.

Accused/appellant Dayanand alias Golu made disclosure

statement that he was in possession of computer, printer,

pencil, counterfeit currency notes of 100 denomination. He

also stated in the disclosure statement that

accused/appellants Reman, Ajay Dubey and Uttam were also 

possessing counterfeit currency notes vide Ex. P-5. He

produced 8 counterfeit currency notes of 100 denomination,

L.G. monitor, CPU, Key board, printer, scanner, copier and

mouse which were recovered vide Ex. P-9. Accused/appellant

Reman made disclosure statement Ex. P-4 relating to 4

counterfeit currency notes of 500 denomination in his shop

Ex. P-4. Investigating Officer Pramod Rusiya along with

witnesses and accused Reman went to his shop at Gol Bazar, 

Khairagarh where he produced 4 counterfeit currency notes of

500 denomination which were recovered vide Ex. P-10.

Accused/appellant Mukesh Tiwari made disclosure statement 

regarding possession of three counterfeit currency notes of

500 denomination and 25 counterfeit currency notes of 100

denomination vide Ex. P-3 and produced the same which

recovered vide Ex. P-8. On the basis of disclosure statements

of accused/appellant Ajay Dubey (Ex. P-3) and Dayanand alias

Golu (Ex. P-5) he went to the house of

accused/appellant Ballu at village Dhangaon where he produced

two counterfeit currency notes of 500 denomination and 14

counterfeit currency notes of 100 denomination which were

recovered vide Ex. P-11. On the basis of disclosure statement

of accused/appellant Ajay Dubey and Dayanand Ex. P-3 and Ex. 

P-5 respectively, he went to the house of accused/appellant

Uttam at Civil Lines, Khairagarh where he produced 12

counterfeit currency notes of 500 denomination. 5. All the accused/appellants were arrested vide arrest

memos Ex. P-14 to Ex. P-19. Intimation of arrest was sent to

the relatives of the accused persons vide Ex. P-23 to P-27.

Investigating Officer issued notice Ex. P-22 to accused

Dayanand alias Golu for production of receipt/bill for the

instruments recovered from his possession. After recovery of

counterfeit notes currency, Dehati Nalishi Ex. P-2A along

with the documents was sent to Police Station, Kotwali

through constable Tularam (PW-2) where FIR Ex. P-2 was

recorded. Investigating Officer Pramod Rusia recorded

Rojnamcha vide Ex. P-29 after return from the spot. Seized

currency notes were sent to the Chief General Manager, State

Bank of India, Main Branch, Rajnandgaon for examination on

1.12.2007 vide Ex. P-1 where B.N. Dhali (PW-1) opined that

the said currency notes be sent to Reserve Bank of India for

examination. Again on 6.12.2007 they were sent for

examination to him and he opined that the currency notes

appeared to be counterfeit and therefore, they were sent to

Currency Note Press at Nasik vide Ex. P-20, receipt thereof

is Ex. P-21 and after examination of the same by V.G. Maru

the report Ex. P-28 was submitted in which he opined that all

the currency notes were counterfeit and fake. After recording

the statements of the witnesses under section 161 of the Code

of Criminal Procedure and completion of the investigation,

charge sheet was filed in the Court of Judicial Magistrate

First Class, Rajnandgaon who in turn committed the case to

the Court of Session, Rajnandgaon where he undertook the

trial. 6. In order to prove the guilt of the accused/appellants

the prosecution has examined as many as eight witnesses.

Statements of the accused persons were recorded under section 

313 of the Code of Criminal procedure in which they denied

the circumstances appearing against them and stated that they

are innocent and have been falsely implicated in the crime in

question. 7. After hearing counsel for the parties and perusing the

evidence adduced by them learned trial Court has convicted

and sentenced the accused/appellants as mentioned above. 8. Heard counsel for the respective parties and perused the

material available on record including the judgment impugned. 9. It is argued by the counsel for the accused/appellants

that the prosecution has failed to adduce any evidence

relating to the fact that the accused/appellants were having

knowledge that the currency notes which they were possessing 

were the counterfeit and they were intending to use the same

as genuine. It is further argued that no independent witness,

not even the police officer has supported the case of the

prosecution. B.N. Dhali (PW-1) who is a Bank Officer has

specifically stated in his evidence that that currency notes

were produced before him in a sealed packet on 1.11.2007 and

6.12.2007. In paragraph No. 5 this witness has specifically

stated that one month and five days after 1.11.2007, the same

currency notes were again produced before him. According to

the case of the prosecution the incident took place on

26.11.2007 and prior to that day i.e. on 1.11.2007 it could

not have been possible to produce the allegedly seized

currency notes before the Bank Officer. It shows that the

entire prosecution story is concocted one. It is argued that

the conviction can rest on the sole testimony of the police

officer but in such cases, strict scrutiny of the material

available on record is required. In this case even the Police

Officer has not complied the procedure prescribed and rather

deviated from it. Therefore, the statement of the police

officer being untrustworthy does not inspire confidence. It

is further argued that the entire statement recorded under section 27 of the Evidence Act is not admissible and only

relevant portion regarding discovery of fact is admissible.

Reliance is placed on the decision of Supreme Court in the

matter of Geejaganda Somiah V. State of Karnataka 1 in which

it has been held that discovery of fact pursuant to statement

gives some guarantee that information is true. Relevant

portion reads as under: 10. Further reliance is placed on the decision of Supreme

Court in the matter of Umashanker V. State of Chhattisgarh 2

in which it has been held that knowing or having reasons to

believe that currency-notes or bank -notes are forged or

counterfeit and buying or receiving from another person or

otherwise trafficking in or using as genuine or also

possessing or even intending to use any forged or counterfeit

currency-notes or bank-notes is not sufficient to make out a

case under section 489-C in the absence of a mens rea. Further reliance is placed on the decision of Supreme Court

in the matter of Bachan Singh and another v. The State of

Punjab 3 in which it has been held that by joining two

different pieces of two genuine currency notes, would not

amount to counterfeiting. Further reliance is placed on the

decision of High Court of Chhattisgarh in the matter of

Dineshwar alias Munna V. State of C.G. 4 in which it has been

held that for the failure on the part of the to prove that

the counterfeit notes made by the appellant were resembling

the genuine notes and the resemblance was such as might

deceive a person and failure to establish that notes which

were half printed on one side on a plain sheet of paper

resembled the genuine currency notes in any manner, the

accused persons are entitled for acquittal. 11. On the other hand learned counsel for the

respondent/State supported the impugned judgment and

submitted that accused/appellant Dayanand alias Golu was

found in possession of instruments meant for preparation of

counterfeit currency notes, computer, printer, scanner etc.

All the accused persons were found in possession of the fake

or counterfeit currency notes of 500 and 100 denomination.

They did not offer any explanation as to how they got the

same. He further argued that though the Panch witnesses have

not supported the case of the prosecution yet they are not

the stock witnesses. They have admitted their signatures over

more than 15 documents and they have not stated whether they 

signed the said papers under fear or pressure of Police.

Statement of the Investigating Officer is trust worthy

inspires confidence. Pramod Rusia (PW-6) has specifically

stated about the incident in detail which is sufficient to

draw an inference that accused/appellants possessed the

counterfeit currency notes with the intention to circulate

them as genuine ones. As far as statement of B.N. Dhali (PW- 12. In order to prove the guilt of the accused/appellants

the prosecution is required to establish the following

essential ingredients: 13. It is not disputed by the counsel for the

accused/appellants that the currency notes recovered from the

accused/appellants were counterfeit and fake. B.N. Dhali (PW- 8) who was the Chief General Manager in the State Bank of

India, Main Branch, Rajnandgaon has also stated that he

examined the currency notes produced before him by

ultraviolet machine and they were not found to be genuine

vide Ex. P-1. Thereafter, they were sent to Currency Note

Press, Nasik vide Ex. P-20 which were received thereby vide

Ex. P-21. The said currency notes were examined by V.G. Maru, 

Class I Gazetted Officer who vide report Ex. P-28 opined that

the currency notes of 500 and 100 denomination were

counterfeit. He is a Class I Gazetted Officer posted in the

Currency Note Press, Nasik and his report is admissible under sections 292 and 293 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and no

formal proof is required. The evidence adduced on behalf of

the prosecution to this effect establishes that the currency

notes in question were examined and found to be counterfeit

and fake. 14. As regards the possession of counterfeit currency notes

with the accused/appellants, Pramod Rusia (PW-6) has

categorically stated in his evidence that on 26.11.2007 at

about 7 a.m. he received information from some informant that

some persons were possessing fake currency notes at

Bajrangpur Navagaon village. After recording Rojnamcha Ex. P-

30 he went to the spot where he called Kamlesh Dewangan (PW P- 3) and Gyaneshwar Mishra (PW-4). He called accused/appellant 

Ajay Dubey and took him into custody. On interrogation,

accused/appellant Ajay Dubey made disclosure statement Ex. P- 

3 that accused/appellants Dayanand alias Golu, Ballu, Mukesh

Reman, Uttam and he himself were in possession of fake

currency notes. Dehati Nalishi Ex. P-2A was recorded. On the

basis of disclosure statement, accused Ajay Dubey produced 10 

fake currency notes of 500 denomination and 46 fake currency

notes of 100 denomination vide Ex. P-7. On the basis of

information given by accused Ajay Dubey, he called

accused/appellant Dayanand alias Golu and on interrogation he

also made disclosure statement of possessionof LG monitor,

scanner, printer, copier, pencil and fake currency notes with

him. He also disclosed that accused/appellants Mukesh, Ballu,

Reman and Uttam were also possessing fake currency notes vide 

Ex. P-5. On the basis of this disclosure statement, he

produced three genuine currency notes of 500 denomination, LG 

monitor, CPU, printer, scanner, mouse and 8 fake currency

notes of 100 denomination which were recovered under Ex. P-9.

On the basis of disclosure statement of aforesaid two

accused/appellants, this witness went to village Dhaneli

along with the witnesses and called accused Mukesh Tiwari and 

took him into custody. On interrogation, he made disclosure

statement that he was possessing three fake currency notes of

500 denomination and 25 fake currency notes of 100

denomination vide Ex. P-6 which were recovered vide Ex. P-8.

He also stated that he went to Khairagarh along with

witnesses, called accused Reman and took him into custody. On 

interrogation he made disclosure statement that he was having

4 fake currency notes of 500 denomination vide Ex. P-4 which

were recovered on production vide Ex. P-10. This witness

also stated that he called accused Uttgam who produced 12

fake currency notes of 500 denomination which were seized

vide Ex. P-12 and Ex. P-13. Thereafter, he went to village

Dhangaon along with witnesses and called accused/appellant

Ballu who produced 2 fake currency notes of 500 denomination

which were seized vide Ex. P-11. 15. Accused/appellants were arrested vide Ex. P-14 to P-19

and intimation to this effect was given to their relatives

vide Ex. P-23 to P-26. He sent all the documents and

currency notes to Police Station Kotwali, Rajnandgaon through

constable Tularam and Rojnamcha was recorded. PW-3 Kamlesh 

Dewangan and PW-4 Gyaneshwar Mishra are the Panch witnesses. 

Both the Panch witnesses have stated that they are motorcycle

mechanics and residents of Bajrangpur Navagaon village and

they have signed the papers at the instance of Police.

Gyaneshwar (PW-4) used to repair the motorcycles of the

Police Officers and they have signed the papers at their

instance. These witnesses have been declared hostile. In

cross examination they have admitted their photographs

attached to the documents. They have not stated anything that

they are the stock witnesses or they signed more than 15

papers under threat or pressure of the Police. They are not

new to the police as they used to repair their motorcycles

and without any reason they signed the papers when they were

so asked by the Police. Dealing with the identical provision

under the NDPS Act in the matter of Ghasita Sahu V. State of

Madhya Pradesh 5 the Apex Court has held that in the absence 

of any suggestion that they are the stock witnesses or they

have signed the Panchnama under the fear or pressure of the

police, their negative statement does not affect the

credibility of the documents and statements of the other

witnesses. In the matter of State of Rajasthan v. Udai Lal6 it has been held by the Apex Court that unless it is stated

by the witnesses that they have put their signature on the

documents after being put under terror or pressure or without

their free consent, their evidence cannot be discarded. 16. Pramod Rusiya (PW-6) has specifically stated that at

Bajrangpur Navagaon, he called Panch witnesses namely Kamlesh 

Dewangan (PW-3) and Gyaneshwar Mishra (PW-4) who are the 

residents of that village. These Panch witnesses have not

stated anywhere that they are residents of the area within

the jurisdiction of Anusuchit Jati Kalyan Thana but they have

stated themselves to be the residents of Bajrangpur Navagaon.

It reveals that when the Investigating Officer proceeded for

the spot, Panch witnesses did not accompany him, they are not 

residents of the area near Anusuchit Jati Kalyan Thana.

Pramod Rusiya (PW-6) has taken sufficient precaution by

calling the Panch witnesses from the locality but they have

not supported the case of the prosecution. In this

circumstance, only the substantial statement of police

officers remains for consideration. Evidence of Pramod Rusiya

and other police officers cannot be discarded on the ground

that they are police officers and interested in the outcome

of the case. In the matter of Anil alias Andya Sadashiv

Nandoskar v. State of Maharashtra 7 it has been held by the

Apex Court that witnesses being police officers does not by

itself create a doubt about their creditworthiness if non

examination of Panch witnesses is explained satisfactorily.

Relevant portion reads as under: In the matter of P.P. Beeran v. State of Kerala 8 it has been

held by the Apex Court that the reliance can be placed on the

uncorroborated evidence of the Sub Inspector of Police. 17. In the instant case Pramod Rusia (PW-6) is a police

officer who conducted the investigation. This witness

proceeded for the spot after recording Rojnamcha and after

taking into custody accused/appellants Ajay Dubey and

Dayanand alias Golu they gave disclosure statements relating

to possession of counterfeit currency notes with them vide

Ex. P-3 and Ex. P-5. They also disclosed that accused Mukesh, 

Reman, Uttam and Ballu are also possessing counterfeit

currency notes. On the basis of disclosure statements

counterfeit currency notes were recovered from

accused/appellants Ajay Dubey and Dayanand alias Golu vide 

Ex. P-6 and P-9. This witness has also stated that after

taking accused Reman and Mukesh into custody he made inquiry 

to them. They gave disclosure statements regarding possession 

of counterfeit currency notes vide Ex. P-4 and P-6 and on the

basis of that he recovered counterfeit currency notes from

them vide Ex. P-8 and P-10. On the basis of disclosure

statements of Ajay Dubey and Dayanand alias Golu (Ex. P-3 and 

P-5 respectively) he recovered counterfeit currency notes

from accused/appellants Ballu and Uttam vide Ex. P-11, P-12

and P-13. 18. While dealing with the provisions of section 27 of the

Evidence Act in the matter of Mohmed Inayatullah v. The State

of Maharashtra 9 it has been held by the Apex Court that the

prosecution is required to satisfy three conditions (a)

discovery of fact albeit relevant facts in consequence of the

information received from the person accused of an offence (b) discovery of such fact must be deposed to and (iii) at

the time of receipt of the information accused must be in

police custody. The last but most important condition is that

only "so much of the information" as relates distinctly to

the fact thereby discovered is admissible. 19. In the present case constable Tularam (PW-2) was with

Pramod Rusiya (PW-6) the investigating officer during search

and seizure of the alleged counterfeit currency notes. He

stated in paragraph No.2 relating to search and seizure

conducted at Bajrangpur Navagaon village that they came to

the Crime Branch and he lodged the FIR Ex. P-2. In his cross

examination he has stated that he reached the police station

Bajrangpur Navagaon at 14.30 hours but he has not

specifically stated that he went to the house of other

accused at Khairagarh along with Pramod Rusia. Defence has 

also not suggested anything relating to other accused. He has

specifically stated that they proceeded for the spot at 8

a.m. and came back to police station half an hour thereafter.

Khilwawan Kumar (PW-5) has stated in his evidence that he

took to Reserve Bank of India for examination. He admitted in

his cross examination that the packets were bearing sea of

the Bank. All the six packets were kept in a big packet but

no separate seal impression was put on that packet. He

deposited six sealed packets in the Reserve Bank of India.

A.S. Thakur PW-8, the sub inspector has specifically stated

in his cross examination that he sent the fake currency notes

for examination to the State Bank of India, Main Branch,

Rajnandgaon on 1.12.2007 which is supported by document Ex. P- 1. B.N. Dhali (PW-1) has stated in his evidence that he

examined the currency notes on 1.12.2007 and 6.12.2007. In

his cross examination in paragraph No. 5 this witness has

further stated that he examined the currency notes for the

second time aftger one month and five days. Ex. P-1 is the

letter dated 1.12.2007 after commission of the offence but in

the letter dated 1.12.2007 B.N. Dhali has mentioned the date

as 1.11.2007 and second time he mentioned the date as

6.12.2007. It appears that on the basis of the date mentioned

by him in Ex. P-1 he has calculated the period and stated

that he has examined the currency notes on 1.11.2007 and

after one month and five days he examined the same for the

second time. This mistake is a clerical mistake and on the

basis of such mistake this witness has mentioned the date as

1.11.2007. Pramod Rusia (PW-6) has admitted in his cross

examination in paragraph No. 25 that he has made correction

in Ex. P-3 to Ex. P-6 in the figure "26" and he has offered

the explanation that due to the ink being faint, he made the

said correction. However, this witness has denied the

suggestion that he has corrected the figures 22 to 26.

Correction over these documents clearly indicates that he

has corrected he figure "26" in Ex. P-2A at two places but

below his signature there is uncorrected figure "26" and on

the basis of this document FIR Ex. P-2 was recorded on

26.11.2007. FIR Ex. P-2 also bears correction of figure "26"

at top but below the signature of this witness the

uncorrected figure "26" is there. Ex. P-4 also bears

correction at two places but in Ex. P-5 at the top figure

"26" is uncorrected. It appears that this is merely a

clerical error. Defence has not tried to elicit anything to

show whether memorandum and seizure were recorded on 

22.11.2007. He has also admitted that he has not informed the

Police of Police Station Khairagarh while making search and

seizure within their jurisdiction. He is the officer of Crime

Branch of District Rajnandgaon and he is not required to

inform in the police station within the district if he

investigates some crime within the district. Defence has

cross examined this witness but did not elicit anything that

he has acted in a prejudicial manner or was having any enmity

or interestedness against the accused/appellants or has he

departed from the procedure prescribed. His conduct shows

that he has followed the procedure prescribed for search and

seizure by calling the witnesses Kamlesh and Gyaneshwar from 

the locality and recorded disclosure statements of the

accused/appellants and seized the articles from their

possession. However, they have not supported the case of the

prosecution. They have also not stated anything to show as

to under what circumstances they signed more than 14 papers 

without there being any pressure or fear. This shows that

they are concealing the truth. In the absence of anay enmity

or interestedness or departure from the procedure prescribed,

his statement cannot be discarded. His statement is

trustworthy and inspires confidence. 20. As regards question admissibility of the statements

given by the accused/appellants and their disclosure

statements, in the matter of Geejaganda Somiah (supra) and in

the matter of Mohmed Inayutallah (supra) it has been held by

the Apex Court "so much of the information as relates to

discovery of fact" is admissible. In this case the

accused/appellants have stated that they were in possession

of counterfeit currency notes of 500 denomination.

Accused/appellant Ajay Dubey and Dayanand alias Golu have 

also stated that the other accused persons namely Mukesh,

Reman, Ballu and Uttam were also having counterfeit currency

notes with them and later they were discovered from them. In

accordance with section 27 of the Evidence Act facts

discovered on the basis of their disclosure statements are

the possesion of fake and counterfeit (Nakli) currency notes

which is supported by the recovery from them on the basis of

their disclosure statements from co-accused Uttam and Ballu

alias Balram. Even otherwise, if some person made disclosure

statements that he was having genuine currency notes it would

not fall under the provisions of section 27 of the Evidence

Act because it is a common knowledge that the person

possesses the genuine currency notes in routine if the same

is not related to any other crime. From the statement of

Pramod Rusia (PW-6) it is evident that the accused/appellants

made disclosure statements that they had the counterfeit

currency notes and the same were recovered at their instance

from them and also from co-accused Uttam and Ballu alias

Balram. 21. The accused/appellants have denied the case of the

prosecution. Prosecution has not adduced any evidence to the

effect that accused/appellant Ajay Dubey counterfeited the

currency notes and he was in possession of any instrument

used in counterfeiting the currency notes. Computer and CPU

were recovered from accused/appellant Dayanand which are used 

otherwise also. Unless the prosecution establishes that the

computer and other instruments recovered from appellant

Dayanand alias Golu are used only for counterfeiting the

currency notes, his conviction under section 489 (a) 489 (d) of the Indian Penal Code is not sustainable. Prosecution has

also not adduced any evidence to show that any of the

accused/appellants has used the fake or counterfeit currency

notes as genuine. Therefore, conviction under section 489 (b) of the IPC is not sustainable against any accused/appellant. 22. Mere possession of currency notes with the knowledge

that they are counterfeit or fake currency notes is not

sufficient to convict the accused/appellants under section

489 (c) of the IPC. Prosecution is required to prove that the

appellants were possessing the counterfeit currency notes

with the intent to use the same as genuine or it may be used

as genuine. As held in the case of Umashankar v. State of

Chhattisgarh (supra) the prosecution is required to prove

mens rea on the part of the accused/appellants and in the

absence of any specific question with regard to possession of

fake currency notes, the accused are entitled for acquittal. 23. In he present case, specific question relating to

possession of fake and counterfeit currency notes was put to

the accused/appellants which they have denied. In this case

the currency notes were not in casual possession of the

accused/appellant which they had obtained in routine manner

from any other person during the course of commercial

transaction but were within their knowledge that they were

counterfeit or fake currency notes. They have not stated

anything that they were possessing the said currency notes

for any other specific purpose or use the counterfeit

currency notes found in possession of accused Ajay, Dayanand, 

Mukesh and Reman within their knowedge and counterfeit

currency notes found in possession of Uttam and Balram were

found with the knowledge of Ajay Dubey and Dayanand. These 

are the special facts within the knowledge of the appellants.

They are required to explain in terms of section 106 of the

Evidence Act that why they were possessing those counterfeit

currency notes. In the absence of any such explanation the

possession of counterfeit currency notes within their

knowledge, it may safely be inferred that they were possessin

the counterfeit currency notes knowing them to be so with the

intention of using the same as genuine.Thus the facts of the

case in the matter of Umashankar V. State of Chhattisgarh (supra) are distinguishable on facts. 24. In the absence of anya evidence for the offence

punishable under sections 489 (a) , 489 (b) and 489 (d) of the

Act, conviction imposed on accused/appellant Dayanand alias

Golu for the offence punishable under sections 489 (a) and 489 (d) of the IPC is not sustainable. Likewise, conviction

imposed on accused/appellants Ajay Dubey and Mukesh Tiwari 

for the offence punishable under section 489 (b) of the IPC

is not sustainable. But, conviction imposed on all the

accused/appellants namely Ajay Dubey, Dayanand alias Golu, 

Reman, Uttam, Ballu alias Balram and Mukesh Tiwari for the

offence punsinable under section 489 ( c ) of the IPC is

sustainable in law. 25. As regards question of sentence, the offence committed

by the accused/appellants is the offence against the symbol

of sovereignty and affects the back bone of the commercial

transaction which ultimately affects the governance of the

country. The appellants have been sentenced by the trial

Court to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three years and

pay fine of Rs. 2000/- each. They do not deserve any sympathy

by this Court. 26. For the forgoing reasons, Criminal Aappeals No. 671/2008

and Criminal Appeal No. 712/2008 are partly allowed.

Conviction and sentence imposed on appellants Dayanand alias 

Golu under section 489 (a) and 489 (d) of the IPC and

conviction and sentence under section 489 (b) of the IPC

imposed on accused/appellants Ajay Dubey and Mukesh Tiwari 

are set aside. Conviction and sentence imposed on all the

accused/appellants namely Ajay Dubey, Dayanand alias Golu, 

Reman, Uttam, Ballu alias Balram and Mukesh Tiwari for the

offence punsinable under section 489 ( c ) of the IPC are

maintained. Criminal Appeal No. 607/2008 and Criminal Appeal

No. 633/2008 are dismissed. Fine amount, if any, deposited by

accused/appellants Dayanand alias Golu, Ajay Dubey and Mukesh 

Tiwari for the offences under sections 489 (a) , 489 (b) and 489 (d) of the IPC, be refunded to them. JUDGE