% 08.12.2022
 By way of the present petition under section 439 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure 1973, the petitioner, who is facing trial in case
 FIR No. 392/2022 dated 23.09.2022 under section 376 of the Indian
 Penal Code, 1860 (' IPC ' for short) registered at P.S.: Sector 23,
 Dwarka, seeks enlargement on bail pending trial. 2. The petitioner was in police custody from 04.10.2022 to 06.10.2022
 and has thereafter been in judicial custody since 07.10.2022. 3. Very briefly, the factual allegations that are relevant for consideration
 of the present bail petition, as contained in the FIR are the following: Subsequently, the parties reconnected and engaged in a romantic
 relationship; 3.3. The prosecutrix alleges that physical relationship was made
 between the parties on the petitioner's promise to marry her;
 3.4. Thereafter, the parties admittedly began living together in
 Hyderabad and also engaged in collaborative business,
 wherefrom disputes arose between the petitioner and the
 prosecutrix concerning money allegedly borrowed by the
 petitioner from the prosecutrix; 3.5. The petitioner then received lawyer's notice dated 12.09.2022
 issued on behalf of the prosecutrix, calling upon him to pay-back
 the amounts allegedly due to the prosecutrix; 3.6. Subsequently, the subject bearing FIR No. 392/2022 under section 376 IPC came to be filed on 23.09.2022. 4. Mr. Manu Sharma, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner
 submits, that it is evident that the allegations are founded upon a
 consensual love affair and physical relationship between the petitioner
 and the prosecutrix, which went sour for reasons which are not
 relevant for the present proceedings. 5. Mr. Sharma submits that despite an alleged forced episode of physical
 relations in 2018, the prosecutrix thereafter came back into the
 petitioner's life after she broke-off from her earlier relationship.
 Counsel submits that the repeated meetings, travels and cohabitation
 between the parties portrays clear and unequivocal consent to the
 physical relationship between them, with no element of force, fraud or
 coercion. Mr. Sharma further submits that the allegation that the
 physical relationship was a result of a 'false promise of marriage' is
 also unfounded inasmuch as the educational background of the
 prosecutrix, and her consistent and unreserved engagements with the
 petitioner is proof positive of the fact that the prosecutrix was fully
 informed and was not deceived into the relationship. 6. In this behalf, attention of the court is drawn to the observations of the
 Supreme Court in Pramod Suryabhan Pawar vs. State of
 Maharashtra and Anr.1 , which have been further cited and affirmed
 in Sonu alias Subhash Kumar vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Anr.2 and Shambhu Kharwar vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr.3 , wherein
 the Supreme Court has held as follows: [...]

 "16. Where the promise to marry is false and the intention of the
 maker at the time of making the promise itself was not to abide by it
 but to deceive the woman to convince her to engage in sexual
 relations, there is a "misconception of fact" that vitiates the
 woman's "consent". On the other hand, a breach of a promise
 cannot be said to be a false promise. To establish a false promise,
 the maker of the promise should have had no intention of upholding
 his word at the time of giving it. The "consent" of a woman under Section 375 is vitiated on the ground of a "misconception of fact" (emphasis supplied) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEERAJ Signing Date:13.12.2022 BAIL APPLN. 3136/2022 Page 4 of 11 17:30:07 7. Also referring to the decision of the Supreme Court in Sonu @
 Subhash Kumar (supra), which has been cited in Shambhu Kharwar (supra), Mr. Sharma submits that in these cases, the Supreme Court
 has in-fact proceeded to quash the charge under section 376 IPC,
 sought to be levelled on the basis of a false promise of marriage. 8. The petitioner has also cited the decisions of Co-ordinate Benches of
 this court in Anand Kaushal vs. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi )4 and Shailendra Kumar Yadav vs. State 5 where this court has taken a
 similar view as regards the allegation of rape founded upon an alleged
 false promise to marry. 9. If anything was to remain, Mr. Sharma submits that Lawyer's Notice
 dated 12.09.2022 issued on behalf of the prosecutrix sealed the issue,
 inasmuch as, after reciting the allegations by rote in the said notice,
 the prosecutrix proceeds to demand from the petitioner a sum of about
 Rs. 1 crore under various heads, including refund of amounts loaned,
 compensation for mental agony and harassment, and for defamation
 arising from loss of commercial reputation and revenue. This, Mr.
 Sharma submits is a give-away, which shows the falsity of the entire
 narrative sought to be built by the prosecutrix alleging a false promise
 of marriage. 10. Opposing the grant of bail on the other hand, Mr. Shoiab Haider,
 learned APP appearing for the State points-out that criminality is
 disclosed from the allegation, as contained in the FIR, that the first 4 2020 SCC OnLine Del 2475 5 2022 SCC OnLine Del 976 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEERAJ Signing Date:13.12.2022 BAIL APPLN. 3136/2022 Page 5 of 11 17:30:07 engagement of the petitioner with the prosecutrix was back in 2018 at
 a hotel in Dwarka, New Delhi, where, according to the prosecutrix,
 the petitioner attempted forcible physical relations with her. It is seen
 however, that the FIR itself narrates that subsequently, after a lapse of
 01 year or so, the prosecutrix re-engaged with the petitioner, though
 she says, on false promise of marriage. 11. Mr. Raghav Mittal and Mr. Akash Gokhar, learned counsel appearing
 for the prosecutrix have also opposed the grant of bail, submitting that
 the falsity of the promise of marriage is evident from the
 circumstances of the case. It is their contention that the prosecutrix
 was deeply invested emotionally, mentally as well as physically in the
 relationship only for the reason that the petitioner had extended to her
 the promise to marry, which turned-out to be false. Counsel also draw
 attention to certain WhatsApp conversations to support their
 contention that the physical relationship was based upon the
 petitioner's promise to marry. 12. Learned counsel for the prosecutrix cite the decision of the Supreme
 Court in State of U.P. vs. Naushad6 , to say that in view of section 90 IPC, consent given under a 'misconception of fact' is no consent in
 law. It is noticed however, that the said decision proceeded on
 allegations of enticement and cheating under the promise to marry in
 a factual scenario which does not even remotely resemble that in the
 present case. It was in entirely different circumstances that the 6 (2013) 16 SCC 651 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEERAJ Signing Date:13.12.2022 BAIL APPLN. 3136/2022 Page 6 of 11 17:30:07 Supreme Court had allowed the appeal, setting-aside the conviction in
 that case . 13. Counsel also cite the decision of the Supreme Court in Anurag Soni
 vs. State of Chhattisgarh7 on the same lines, submitting that in that
 case also, the Supreme Court had upheld the conviction, holding that
 a false promise of marriage cannot be the basis of consent for
 purposes of section 376 IPC. Yet again, however, it is seen that the
 said case proceeded on a different factual matrix, whereby the
 accused was already engaged to be married to another person at the
 time when he extended the promise of marriage to the prosecutrix. 14. Attention is also drawn to the decision in Kalesh Mohanan vs. State8 in which a Co-ordinate Bench of this court had declined anticipatory
 bail to an undertrial, who was accused of having committed the
 offence under section 376 IPC on the pretext of marriage. It is noticed
 however, that in the said case also, the relevant facts were different
 from the present case, inasmuch as the allegations in the case cited
 related to the prosecutrix having been administered sedatives and
 having been threatened that her photographs and video recordings
 would be leaked in the context of the alleged offence. 15. Without delving any further into the merits of the allegations in the
 present case, for the purpose of the present petition seeking regular
 bail, this court is persuaded by the following: (emphasis supplied)

 15.2 In the present case, in the opinion of this court, on the basis of
 the material presently on record it cannot be said with any
 certitude that the petitioner's alleged promised to marry the
 prosecutrix was a false promise. The prosecutrix is a well-
 educated person, with a very long-standing familiarity and
 relationship with the petitioner from their school days. Her
 engagement with the petitioner, as detailed above, has
 continued over a prolonged period of time, admittedly with
 repeated episodes of physical liaison, which cannot all have Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEERAJ Signing Date:13.12.2022 BAIL APPLN. 3136/2022 Page 8 of 11 17:30:07 been based merely on a promise to marry. How then can it be
 said, that the alleged false promise to marry was itself of
 immediate relevance, or bore a direct nexus to her decision to
 engage in the physical relationship, in fulfilment of the test
 laid-down by the Supreme Court in the afore-cited case.
 15.3 The WhatsApp chats between the petitioner and the prosecutrix
 filed by the petitioner, also evidence at least prima-facie, that
 marriage between the parties was on the cards; to which end,
 the petitioner was to speak to his parents. Had it been a case of
 rank falsity of promise, it is difficult to believe that the
 petitioner would have gone even to the extent of assuring the
 prosecutrix that he would speak to his parents. What went
 wrong is, however, in the realm of speculation and is not
 required to be gone into in the present proceedings. Suffice it to
 say, that nothing on the record persuades the court to believe
 that the promise to marry, even if such promise was made, was
 false or was ex-facie informed by deception; 15.4 The record shows that the parties are also involved in financial
 disputes, which is evident from the Lawyer's Notice dated
 12.09.2022 referred to above , with the prosecutrix demanding
 from the petitioner substantial sums of money, which she
 claims were due, in addition to compensation on various counts.
 The exact relevance of such financial disputes to the allegations
 of the sexual offence, is something that would need to be
 adjudicated closely in the course of trial; but suffice it to say, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEERAJ Signing Date:13.12.2022 BAIL APPLN. 3136/2022 Page 9 of 11 17:30:07 that at this stage, these circumstances add other dimensions to
 the allegation of rape on a false promise of marriage. 16. While certain other aspects also appear from the record, which may
 add to the court's view in the matter, the court would restrain from
 delving any further into the matter lest it interferes with a fair trial, to
 which the petitioner and the prosecutrix are both entitled. 17. The court is informed that investigation in the matter is complete and
 chargesheet has been filed on 22.11.2022; and is awaiting scrutiny by
 the learned trial court. 18. Upon a prima-facie conspectus of the aforesaid facts and
 circumstances, this court is persuaded to accept the present petition;
 and to grant to the petitioner regular bail pending trial, subject to the
 following conditions: ANUP JAIRAM BHAMBHANI, J. DECEMBER 8, 2022/uj Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEERAJ Signing Date:13.12.2022 BAIL APPLN. 3136/2022 Page 11 of 11 17:30:07