assessee are in cross appeal against order of the ld.AO dated 28.9.2015
passed under section 143(3) r.w.s 144C(4) of the Income tax Act, 1961.
On receipt of notice on assessee's appeal, the Revenue has also filed
cross objection bearing no.376/Del/2015 in ITA No.6181/Del/2015. 2. Assessee-company at the relevant time was engaged in the
business of civil engineering and development of real estate projects. It
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi -2- is noticed by the AO that the assessee company was established in 1971
as a public limited company having its registered office at 6, Community
Centre, Saket, New Delhi. The assessee is in the business of construction
and development of real estate projects in National Capital region, but is
also fast establishing a pan India presence. It is further noticed that the
assessee-company has the most diversified product mix comprising
residential, commercial, IT Parks, retail, amusement parks and hotels. It
was also into some major projects in India as well as overseas i.e. Libya
wherein the company is in the construction of transmission lines, power
houses etc. 3. Assessee has filed its return of income on 4.10.2010 declaring total
income at Rs.704,98,86,354/-. A draft assessment order was prepared by
the AO on 13.4.2011 which was served upon the assessee. It has filed its
objection before the ld.DRP and the ld.DRP has passed its order under
section 144C(4) of the Act on 10.8.2015. Thereafter, the AO has passed
assessment order on 28.9.2015 determining income of the assessee at
Rs.995,82,28,090/-. It is pertinent to take note that the ld.DRP has given
part relief which is being challenged by the Revenue in its appeal. 4. The ld.counsel for the assessee, at the very outset, submitted that
the assessee has preliminary jurisdictional ground in ground no.1.1 to
1.3 whereby it has pleaded that direction for special audit under section
142(2A) of the Act was not warranted and has been issued only for sake
of extending time limit of time barred assessment. This 9issue is
squarely covered in faovur of the assessee by the order of the ITAT
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi -3- passed in the immediately preceding year i.e. assessment year 2009-10
wherein under similar circumstances, the AO has made a proposal for
appointment of special auditor which was approved by the ld.CIT. This
special auditor was pointed and accounts were audited. However,
when the assessee challenged such an action of the AO before the ITAT,
its grounds were allowed and it was held that the assessment order is
time barred. Accoridng to the ld.cousnel for the assessee, there is no
change in the facts in the present assessement year. Therfore, arguments
were advanced only on this preliminaryissue by the ld.representatives.
In view of the above, at this stage, we deem it appropriate to take note of
ground nos.1.1 to 1.3 raised by the assessee in its appeal as under: 5. The ld.counsel for the assessee while impugning order of the AO
has contended that at the fag-end of expiry of limitation to pass
assessment order, the ld.AO has made a proposal for appointment of
special auditor which has been accepted by the ld.CIT and special
auditor was appointed. Such exercise was carried out by the
department in order to get the time extended for passing assessment
order after expiry of limitation. He submitted that financial statement of
the assessee-company for the impugned assessment year have been duly
audited by the statutory auditors after verification of the books of
accounts and other relevant documents maintained by the company.
There is no adverse finding of the statutory auditors with respect to the
books of accounts of the assessee. There are no complexities in the
accounts. Similar exercise was done by the AO in the assessment year
2009-10 and the assessee has challenged such action of the AO in appeal
before the Tribunal. The assessee took a preliminary ground in its
appeal for the assessment year 2009-10 and contended that if it is
demonstrated that pre-conditions for invoking provisions contained in section 142(2A) of the Act for appointment of special auditor were not
available, then such an order would be vacated and the assessment
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi -5- order should be declared as time barred. This preliminary objection was
entertained by the ITAT in ITA No.5180/Del/2013. The Tribunal after
elaborate discussion on the issue accepted contention of the assessee and
held that appointment of special auditor under section 142(2A) of the
Act was not in consonance with the statutory provisions. Accordingly,
the Tribunal has declared the assessment as time barred. The ld.counsel
for the assessee contended that this order was pronounced on 8.4.2016.
The department has accepted this order and did not challenge in further
appeal. Therefore, according to him, the issue in dispute is squarely
covered by the order of the ITAT passed in the assessment year 2009-10.
For buttressing his contentions, he took us through the order of the
Tribunal as well as other details i.e. chronology of events reproduced by
the AO on page no.3 of the assessment order. He pointed out that in this
chronology, the ld.AO failed to note replies given by the assessee. He
has just noticed the events which are suitable to him and on which
alleged questionnaire has been issued. He took us through the show
cause notice of the AO dated 5.2.2014 vide which the assessee was
confronted as to why his case should not be recommended for
appointment of special auditor under section 142(2A) of the Act. Copy
of this proposal has been placed on record in paper book at page no.244.
On this proposal, the assessee has filed detailed reply vide letter dated
3.3.2014 which has been placed in the paper book at page nos.249 to 264.
Thereafter, before granting approval, the ld.Commissioner has also
issued show cause notice to the assessee. Copy of such show cause
notice is available at page no.267 of the paper book. The assessee again
filed detailed reply to the ld.Commissioner and copy of the same has
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi -6- been placed on page nos.262 to 278. He pointed out that without
considering any of the explanations given by the assessee, special
auditor was appointed, and copy of order to this effect is available at
page no.280 of the paper book. He took us through the order dated
26.3.2014 vide which special auditor was appointed after taking prior
approval from the Commissioner. All these pages have been referred by
the ld.counsel for the assessee in order to demonstrate parity between
the facts and circumstances in the assessment year 2009-10 to 2010-11.
He pointed out that the order of appointment of special auditor is
verbatim same. Thus, according to the ld.counsel for the assessee, it is to
be declared that the order passed by the Addl. CIT dated 26.3.2014 for
appointment of special auditor under section 142(2A) is illegal and
invalid and not in accordance with law, and this assessment order so
made after taking benefit of extended time period, be declared as time
barred. 6. On the other hand, the ld.DR contended that appointment of
special auditor cannot be challenged before the Tribunal. It is not an
appealable order and remedy of assessee lies somewhere else. This
aspect cannot be entertained in the appeal of the assessee. Otherwise, he
was unable to controvert the finding of the Tribunal recorded in the
assessment year 2009-10. 7. In rebuttal, the ld.cousnel for the assessee submitted that this
aspect has elaborately been gone into by the Tribunal in the assessment
year 2009-10, and after making reference to a large number of decisions,
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi -7- the Tribunal has recorded a finding that appointment of an auditor
could be challenged in an appeal, and if it is unearthed that such
exercise carried out was illegal, then such order can be declared invalid.
Both aspects have been gone into by the Tribunal elaborately and only
thereafter the order for appointment of special auditor was declared
invalid. He took us through the order of the Tribunal in extenso. 8. We have duly considered rival contentions and gone through the
record carefully. As observed earlier, the assessee has filed its return of
income on 4.10.2010. Section 143(2) of the Income Tax Act contemplates
that where return has been made under section 139 , or in response to a
notice under sub-section (1) of section 142 , the AO or the prescribed
income-tax authorities shall, as the case may, if consider it necessary to
ensure that assessee has not understated income or has not computed
excessive loss or has not under paid the tax in any manner, shall serve
on the assessee a notice requiring him, on a date to be specified therein,
either to attend his office of the AO or to produce any evidence on
which the assessee may rely in support of the return. The provisio
appended to this section further contemplates that no notice under this
sub-section shall be served upon the assessee after expiry of six months
from the end of the financial year in which the return is filed. Thus, it
authorizes the AO to serve a notice under section 143(2) utpo 30.9.2011.
The ld.AO has issued notice on 12.7.2011. The case of the assessee was
selected for scrutiny assessment by issuing a valid notice under section
143(2) . This is the notice whereby assessment machinery was put into a
motion and opportunity was granted to the assessee for submitting any
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi -8- evidence or explanation in support of the return. Thereafter, the AO
would commence inquiry/investigation whereby he would issue
questionnaire under section 142(1) of the Act. It is pertinent to observe
that the questionnaire was also issued on 26.8.2011, but, thereafter, the
AO again issued fresh notice 143(2) on 4.6.2012 along with
questionnaire. He again issued a fresh notice on 24.9.2012 and 14.1.2013
under section 143(2) of the Income Tax Act. It is pertinent to observe
that the assessee has filed reply to these show cause notices and
submitted details. Index of the paper book submitted would indicate
that the assessee has filed more than 1110 pages in the shape of reply
and information. For the purpose of examining preliminary issue all
these details are not relevant therefore, we desist from making reference
to the replies submitted by the assessee during the course of assessment
proceedings. 9. There is no dispute with regard to the proposition of time limit to
pass assessment order upto 31.3.2014, as contemplated in section 153(1) of the Act. When this time limit is going to expire, the ld.AO on 5.2.2014
made a proposal for appointment of special auditor. He issued a show
cause notice to the assessee inviting its explanation as to why its case be
not referred to special auditor. Copy of such proposal is available at
page no.244 to 248 which reads as under: verification w.r.t Business expediency or otherwise, for its effect on the
total income and tax thereon. j. The assessee company has transferred shares of its subsidiary
companies at par value of Rs.10/- to both related and unrelated parties.
In these subsidiary companies, share holders' are same as that of
Unitech Limited .viz. Ramesh Chandra, Sanjay Chandra and Ajay
Ghandra having substantial interest inter-alia. By such transfer assessee
has passed on 100% shareholding of these companies and no profit have
been shown. These voluminous transactions heeds proper audit/
verification, for decidingion the taxability aspect. k. Colourable device of transferring shares in subsidiaries instead of
transfer of substantial interest in land held as asset by the said
subsidiary cos. In the Computation of Income, assessee has shown income of Rs. 671.50
Crore as profit from sale of Investment in Real estate projects and 25.06
Crore as profit from sale of shares. These profits has been offered to tax
as 'Capital Gain'. It is pertinent from the records that the land was
acquired in the name of subsidiaries companies from the funds given by
the assessee company and the same are shown as Loans and advances by
assessee company. To create owner's rights, control and physical
possession on land purchased in the name of land owning subsidiary
companies, assessee has entered into agreement with these companies for
development of land. As a consideration for holding the land in their
name & acquiring development rights from land owning subsidiary
companies, it has paid service charges to such subsidiary companies.
Through payment of consideration in the form of land advance, transfer
of developmental right and payment of service charges, it is evident that
Land Owning Subsidiary Companies are just custodian and title
holders of the land, only on paper. But in substance the actual
ownership rights & possession lies with assessee. Thus these
transactions form a colourable device of camouflaging transactions of
sale of land as share transactions i.e. apparent transfer of shares in
subsidiary companies in place of substantial transfer of landed
properties and treating them as Capital Gain, needs through
verification, for correct determination of Income with its effect on tax
payable. In fact, in AY 2009-10, such income has been assessed as
Income from Business, based on the report of Special Audit. IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 12 - i. Assessee company has taken loan from its subsidiary companies to
the extent of Rs.325,98,89,588/-. These subsidiary companies do not
have capacity to give such huge funds, as they are filing return with nil
income or loss. They do not have any asset of their own for conducting
business. Similarly, loans have also been advanced to subsidiary
companies. These transactions will also have impact on assessee's
income and tax thereon. The sheer volume of transactions and the huge
amount involved, renders thorough verification of the same inevitable to
arrive at the correct amount of taxable income. m. Advances of Rs. 5918.65 Crores have been shown to have been
received from customers of 42 projects, but in details filed during
assessment proceedings, income from percentage completion method
there are only 21 projects. Similarly, Land in Balance Sheet is at Rs.
2834.85 Crores, but in reply to questionnaire it is stated to be around
Rs.3100 Crores. These discrepancies needs thorough probe. n. There are advances to subsidiaries amounting to Rs. 1953.12 Crores
for purchase of land. But corresponding land right is not perceptible.
Similarly, there are loans & advances from subsidiaries, but there are no
details of interest or service charges etc. on these accounts. Therefore,
nature of transaction along with Business expediency for these loans to
decide on allowability of interest u/s. 36(1) , needs thorough verification,
as from ledger A/c furnished, no details emanate including whether
corresponding interest have been received or not. o. During the year the assessee company has issued 42,10,64,935 shares
of Rs.2/-at a premium which were Rs.36.50 per share on 22-4-2009 &
Rs.79 per share on 3-7-2009. The reason for difference in share premium
which more than 100% in just a matter of 2 ½ months. Besides, the
increase in share premium during the year in standalone Balance Sheet
is Rs.4418,01,09,413/- whereas in consolidated Balance Sheet, it is
Rs.4193,94,17,711/-. These aspects needs proper probing. p. Information has been received from Investigation Wing of the
Department on the complicity of assesses., in. the 2-G scam, as ultimate
holding company of ail 8 Unitech Wireless companies which were
granted UAS Licences by Dept. of Telecommunications. Transactions of
assessee company with these wireless companies both on capital and
revenue account needs to be thoroughly audited for identifying source &
destination of such huge funds involved in the said scam. IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 13 - 3. The above aspects render the accounts of assessee company very
 complex with voluminous transactions, thereby necessitating thorough
 investigation, by special audit u/s 142(2A) of IT Act, 1961 for arriving
 at correct amount of total income. Accordingly, you are hereby given an
 opportunity to Show Cause, why your case should not be referred to
 Special Audit u/s 142(2A) of the IT. Act, 1961. 4. Your reply must reach this office within 10 days of receipt of this
 notice/letter i.e. latest by 15-02-2014, failing which it will be presumed
 that you have no explanation to offer with regard to the proposed special
 audit u/s.142(2A) of IT. Act, 1961 in your case for F.Y. 2009-10
 relevant to A.Y. 2010-11." 10. The assessee filed reply to this proposal and copy of that reply is
available at page no.249 to 264. We deem it to take note of the reply
also. It reads as under: 2.1 It is submitted that perusal of the aforesaid statutory provisions would show that it
 provides that if at any stage of proceedings, the Assessing Officer having regard to
 nature and complexity of accounts of the assessee and in the interest of the revenue is
 o' the opinion that it is necessary to do so may direct to assessee to get the accounted
 audited by an accountant with the previous approval of the Commissioner or Chief
 Commissioner of Income Tax. It is thus submitted that statutory precondition for
 invoking section 142(2A) of the Act is that, there must be complexity in the accounts
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 15 - of the assessee. It is submitted until and unless there is a complexity in the accounts,
 no aid can be resorted to the provisions of section 142 (2 A) of the Act . 2.2 The assessee company seeks to place reliance on the judgement of Hon'ble Calcutta
 High Court in the case of West Bengal State Co-operative Bank Ltd. Vs. JCIT reported in 267 ITR 345, wherein it was held as under: 2.3 It is submitted that, formation of opinion by the learned Assessing Officer for
conducting a special audit depends upon; the nature of the accounts, complexity of the
accounts and, interest ,of the revenue. The. words "having- regard to" employed in. the
provisions contained in section' 142(2 A) of the Act , assumes significance in the matter of
construction of the said provision. The expression "having regard to" indicates that, in
exercising the power, regard must be had to the factors enumerated in the provision with all
factors relevant for exercise of the power. It is-submitted that no action u/s 142(2A) of the
Act, can be initiated on whims or caprice, and on the ipse-dixit of an officer. 2.4 The conditions of nature and complexity of the accounts' and 'the interests of the
revenue' are the pre-requisites for exercise of power under section 142(2A) . The assessee
company submits that in the instant case it is evident that the pre-requisites for exercise of
power u/s 142 (2 A) of the Act have not been fulfilled. It is further submitted that in instant
case it is evident that your good self is seeking to exercise the power u/s 142(2A) of the
Income Tax Act merely to shift your responsibility to an auditor. The assessee also seek to
place reliance on the judgement of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Gurunanak
Enterprises v. CIT [2003] 259 ITR 637 where the Hon'ble Court held that there should be
formation of an opinion by the Assessing Officer in regard to nature and complexity of
accounts of assessee and interest of revenue. In this regard there should be a proper
application of mind by the Assessing Officer. In that case, the Court had dismissed the writ
petition filed by the assessee, but it will be useful to refer to the law laid down by the Bench in
that case , which reads as under: ADZPG0852E

With regards to annexure VIII of Form 3CD also the details of one single party i.e. of HDFC
Ltd. has not been provided that to also unintentionally omit to mention there as the party is
not unknown or uncommon to any person. The same is. also given hereunder: We may further submit that all the subsidiaries are audited separately and any amount
received by subsidiary either for purchase of land on behalf of the company or for approvals
thereafter are duly disclosed as Unsecured loan for purchase of land. Moreover these
transactions does not affect tax revenue as any consideration from sale of land as well use of
land parcel for development of project is accounted for by Unitech Limited in its revenue and
subsidiaries are not taking any income from these land parcels, in turns receiving the service
charges from Unitech Limited to hold these land parcels and showing the same as revenue
only. In view of the aforesaid it is evident that the observation are based on factual
misconception and thus cannot be taken as the basis to regard that there is any complexity in
the books of account of assessee company. Reply to Para 2 (j)

With regards to your query for transfer of share of its subsidiary companies to related and
unrelated parties at Par value. In this connection, we would like to bring to your kind notice
that the company has not transferred share of any subsidiary company to any of the unrelated
party at cost or face value. We are enclosing the chart/detail showing the transfer of shares of
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 21 - subsidiaries to related & unrelated parties separately, which shows our contention mentioned
above (Annexure 6 & 6a). Further in case of transfer of shares to the related party i.e to
another subsidiary company was made to liquidate or merge the NIL companies into one of
the subsidiary company to scale down the no. of subsidiary not required as in several states
the land ceiling act was abolished due to which the company is incorporating the same.
However, it may be placed on records that in all these subsidiary companies Mr. Ramesh
Chandra, Mr. Sanjay Chandra & Mr. Ajay Chandra are not common directors. As per the
companies Act, any person can be director in maximum no. of 15 companies; therefore in
most of the companies, employees of Unitech Limited are the director's acting as nominee to
the shareholder i.e. Unitech Limited. On plain perusal of chart enclosed shows that shares to unrelated parties have not been sold
at par and there is a capital gain of Rs. 691.83 crores on these shares declared during the year
under consideration and Mr. Ramesh Chandra, Mr. Sanjay Chandra & Mr. Ajay Chandra
are not the directors of those companies/purchaser companies. As far as share sale to related
entities/other subsidiaries there is no point to sell at above face value as the income is exempt
u/s 47 of the I. Tax Act, 1961. In view of the aforesaid it is evident that the observation are
based on factual misconception and thus cannot be taken as the basis to regard that there is
any complexity in the books of account of assessee company. Reply to Para 2 (k)

In this para, it has been observed that colourable device of transferring share in place of
substantial transfer of landed properties, it is submitted most respectfully that, there is no
device much less colourable device of transferring share in place of substantial transfer of
landed properties. It is submitted that there is no basis to arriving at such an observation. It
is submitted that sale of shares of company is a valid, legal method of transfer of ownership of
a company and, if as a result, assets of the company including land held therein is transferred,
it cannot be alleged that, this a colourable device. It is submitted that, sale of shares of a
company is the only mode and, manner of transfer of ownership in a company and as such
suggestion that, this is a colourable device is nothing misguided attempt to direct special
audit u/s 142 (2 A) of the Act . In earlier para, we have already clarified that capital gain on sale of shares of subsidiaries has
been duly declared in the ROI filed for the concerned assessment year. It is a question of law
whether it is treated as business income or income under head of capital gain. In view of the
aforesaid it is evident that the observation are based on factual misconception and thus cannot
be taken as the basis to regard that there is any complexity in the books of account of assessee
company. Reply to Para 2 (1)

With regards to your query regarding loan of Rs.325.99 Crores taken by the company from
its subsidiaries and stating that these companies do not have capacity to give such huge funds
and are filing nil income return. In this connection we enclose herewith a chart of 19 companies from which the above loan of
Rs.325.99 crores has been taken. The company wise profit and tax paid by these companies
amounting to Rs.126.24 crores (Profit) and Rs.44.07 Crores (Tax) is also depicted in this
chart (Annexure 7). In view of the aforesaid it is evident that the observation are based on
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 22 - factual misconception and thus cannot be taken as the basis to regard that there is any
complexity in the books of account of assessee company. Reply to Para 2 (m)

As per accounting policy with regards to recognition of Income, it is submitted that in Real
Estate Projects which have been undertaken before 31st March, 2004, the revenue is
.estimated. @ 20% of actual receipts and projects undertaken on or after 1st April, 2004 the
revenue is recognized on "Percentage of Completion Method" when the actual .cost as
stipulated in Accounting Policy is 20% or more. In view of above we may explain with regards to your observation that the company may have
launched 42 projects but as per policy of Percentage of Completion Method the is income
recognized in the year under consideration is of only in 21 projects. Therefore the advance
received from customers for the projects just lunched or not achieved 20% construction level
shows the difference in your calculation as well as in detail submitted by the company The
detail chart showing all the 42 projects status of revenue and advances is enclosed for your
reference (Annexure 8). With regards to difference in land value it is placed on records that in reply to your
questionnaire no. ACIT-C(18)72012-13 dated 31st January, 2013 we have submitted a reply
on 13th February, 2013 wherein at Point No.26 we filed a detailed chart of land showing
opening balance, addition / deletion and final balance at the close of year which also reflect a
figure 2834.85 Crores which is as per Balance Sheet (Annexure 9). Therefore we would
request your goodself to please provide the information/documents you have relied upon
having difference with the audited balance sheet of the company. In view of the aforesaid it is
evident that the observation are based on factual misconception and thus cannot be taken as
the basis to regard that there is any complexity in the books of account of assessee company. Reply to Para 2 (n)

As mentioned earlier in pursuance of real estate activities the company is purchasing land in
the name of its subsidiaries and all the money for purchase of land is advanced by the
company. The income from these land is also accounted for in company's books as and when
these land parcel are sold to other third party or project developed by Unitech Limited.
Unitech Limited has entered into agreement with these companies for development of land
and as a consideration for holding the land in their name and acquiring the development
rights from original land owning subsidiary companies, the Unitech Limited has paid to the
subsidiaries companies an amount @ Rs. 10000 per acre payable in five year as service
charges. As far as detail of interest on these accounts, as mentioned that these companies
never book any profit on the land sale and transferring the same to Unitech Limited to offer
for tax as they are custodian of land on behalf of Unitech Limited. In view of the aforesaid it is
evident that the observation are based on factual misconception and thus-cannot be taken as
the basis to regard that there is any complexity in the books of account of assessee company. Reply to Para 2 (o)
In response to query no. O, it is submitted that the facts mentioned in the first part of the
query regarding difference in premium on issue of 42,10,64,935 shares of Unitech Limited,
are in correct for the following reason: exchanges in which the equity shares of the issuer, of the same class are listed and in. which
the highest trading volume in such shares has been recorded during the two weeks
immediately: preceding the relevant date. So, by application of the aforesaid formula, the price for issue of shares in the April Issue and
July Issue came out to be different since the aforesaid formula is based on the market price of
the equity shares of the issuer on the stock exchanges. The calculation of base price for the April Issue is as under: difficulty in appreciating entries, an explanation would have to be obtained from the
 assessee. In Bata India Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Income Tax [(2002) 257 ITR 622], the
 Hon'ble High Court of Calcutta held that the power to order special audit must be
 based on proper investigations and reasons. The two pre-conditions justifying action
 under Section 142(2A) are the nature and complexity of the accounts and the
 interests of the Revenue. There can be no doubt that before an approval is sought for,
 the Assessing Officer must form an opinion as regards the said two conditions. The
 satisfaction is to be based on objective considerations. There has to be an application
 of. mind on the part of the Assessing Officer. If any vital information cannot be
 ascertained from the , accounts the Assessing Officer should call for particulars from
 the assessee, which he is entitled to do. There should be an honest attempt to
 understand the accounts of the assessee. The power to appoint a Special Auditor
 cannot be lightly exercised. Complexity of the accounts cannot be equated with
 doubts being entertained by the Assessing Officer, either with regard to the
 correctness, or the need to obtain certain vital information not ascertainable from the
 accounts. In the absence of reasons based on which it can be said that the accounts are
 complex or not, mere assumption that they are complex would not satisfy the test, nor
 would the appointment of Special Auditor merely for the purpose of examination of
 related supporting vouchers, bring the matter within ambit of Section 142 (2 A). 5. It is therefore respectfully submitted that there is no case for directing the special audit of
 the Assessee and any such direction, if passed, would only result in unnecessary and
 unwarranted financial burden on the Assessee. It is submitted that your action seeking
 reference to Special Auditor u/s 142(2A) of the Income Tax Act for conducting special audit
 purportedly by invoking the provisions of section 142(2A) of the Act are invalid, obliterate
 and, without jurisdiction and, as such your good self is requested to withdraw the aforesaid
 initiation as well as the show cause letter dated 05.02.2014. Thanking you,

 Yours sincerely,
 For Untech Limited
 Sd/- (Authorised Signatory)" 1.1 The assessee, in response to the above, respectfully submits as under: 2. At the outset, it is most respectfully submitted that, the assessee had been
 served with a show cause notice dated 05.02.2014 and 26.02.2014 for
 reference to the special auditor and in response there to, assessee has
 furnished reply dated 03.03.2014 submitting that, show cause notice is
 highly vague, unspecific, unsubstantiated, unwarranted and therefore not
 only arbitrary but also without jurisdiction. It was submitted that mere
 general observations without stating any basis thereof cannot be a ground
 to allege complexity in the books of accounts. The assessee thus prayed that,
 it may kindly be confronted with the basis of the allegations/observations
 recorded in the said vague notice, so as to enable the assessee company to
 furnish a proper reply to such notice. Without prejudice to above, the
 assessee furnished parawise reply to the show cause notice establishing that
 there is no specific or cogent material to allege complexity in the books of
 accounts of the assessee. It was further submitted that notice has, been,
 issued based on mere suspicion and fishing and roving inquiry is being
 made to order the special audit, of the assessee, which not contemplated
 under section 142(2A) of the Act, 1961. It was submitted that the proposed
 action seeking reference to special auditor u/s 142(2A) of the Act for
 conducting special audit Ts invalid, obliterate and, without jurisdiction. A
 copy of the reply furnished is enclosed as Annexure "A" to this reply. IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 29 - 2.1 Apart from above, books of accounts were produced on 3.3.2014.
The said books of accounts were impounded on 03.03.2014 and
thereafter released on' 13.03.2014. 2.2 The assessee has now been directed to appear before your goodself.
The instant hearing is as a result of proposal forwarded by the learned
Assessing Officer for reference to special auditor to your goodself. 2.3 It is submitted that the aforesaid proposal has not been supplied to
the assessee. It is submitted the show cause notice as issued by the learned
Assessing Officer has already been replied by the assessee company.
However, it is not known as on what basis and for what reasons the reply
has not been found to be acceptable. It is thus submitted until and unless
the proposal is confronted to the assessee specifying the reason for rejecting
the reply filed by the assessee, the assessee would not be in the position to
furnish a complete reply. Your goodself will appreciate that no person can
expected to reply without knowing the basis on which the learned Assessing
Officer was not satisfied with the reason of the assessee stating that there is
no complexity in the books of accounts of the assessee. The assessee seeks to
rely upon the case of Full Bench of Delhi High Court in the case of J.T.
(India) Exports and Anr. vs. UOI reported in 262ITR 269 wherein it has
been held as under: 3. Without prejudice to the aforesaid, it is most respectfully submitted that
 the proposed reference to the special auditor is an attempt to extent the
 period of limitation and also to outsource the role and job of an
 Assessing Officer. In otherwords, the attempt is to not only abdicate his
 responsibility but also extend the period of limitation. At this juncture,
 the assessee reiterates that the show cause notice notice had been issued
 on 05.02.2014 without examining the books of account of the assessee
 company. . It is submitted that, the necessary and statutory pre-
 condition for invoking section 142(2A) of the Act is that Assessing
 Officer must necessarily examine the books of accounts before issuing a
 show cause notice to direct the assessee to get his accounts audited by
 the special auditor. The assessee in support seek to refer following
 judgments as under:- the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that honest attempt to understand the
accounts must first be made. Special Audit should not be directed upon
a cursory look at the accounts. For an order of special audit, the
Assessing Officer must scrutinize accounts and be satisfied about the
complexity of the accounts. This decision would have to be made after
looking into the accounts. Even if there was difficulty in appreciating
entries, an explanation would have to be obtained from the assessee. ii) 257 ITR 622 (Ca) Bata India Ltd. vs. CIT the Hon'ble High Court of Calcutta held that the power to order special
audit must be based on proper investigations and reasons. The two pre-
conditions justifying action under Section 142(2A) are the nature and
complexity of the accounts and the interests of the Revenue. There can
be no doubt that before an approval is sought for, the Assessing Officer
must form an opinion as regards the said two conditions. The
satisfaction is to be based on objective considerations. There has to be an
application of mind on the part of the Assessing Officer. If any vital
information cannot be ascertained from the accounts the Assessing
Officer should call for particulars from the assessee, which he is entitled
to do. There should be an honest attempt to understand the accounts of
the assessee. The power to appoint a Special Auditor cannot be lightly
exercised. Complexity of the accounts cannot be equated with doubts'
being entertained by the Assessing Officer, either with regard . to the
correctness, or the need to obtain certain vital information not
ascertainable from the accounts. In the absence of reasons based on
"which it can be "said that the accounts are complex or not, mere .
assumption that they are complex would not satisfy the test, nor would
the appointment of Special Auditor merely for the purpose of
examination of related supporting vouchers, bring the matter within
ambit of Section 142(2A) . 3.1 Infact, jurisdictional High Court in the case of PDA vs. Union
of India reported in 350 ITR 432 after noting the judgment of Allahabad
High Court in Swadeshi Cotton Mills Co. Ltd. v. CIT 1988 (171) ITR
634 his held as under: IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 32 - It is further been held that:- 3.2 Thus from the aforesaid it is evident that books of accounts must
necessarily be examined and not even cursorily but honestly and only
than reference would be valid. It is submitted that the learned Assessing
Officer in the Show Cause Notice dated 05.02.2014 has proposed
reference by observing as under: 3.3 It is submitted that, since the proposal is based on allegedly
complexity in accounts, it is apparent that the said proposal has not
been made after making an honest attempt to examine the book of
accounts, since books of accounts had neither been produced and nor
examined by the Assessing Officer .prior to issue of show cause notice
dated 5.02.2014. 3.4 It may be added and clarified that subsequent to the show cause
notice and reply of the assessee, books of accounts were produced and
compounded on 3.3.2014. Thereafter on 10.3.2014, the learned
Assessing Officer has already prepared a printed order sheet which had
his observations on few of the entries in books of accounts. The learned
Assessing Officer did not grant any time to reply to the said
observations. He obtained a general response to the said observations
despite the fact that assessee sought further time to satisfy him that such
observations are based on misconception. The central idea of the
aforesaid approach of the learned Assessing officer was to overcome the
inherent defect in the show cause notice and, not to make an honest
attempt to examine the books of accounts. Madam, the assessee is a
public limited company with a turnover of Rs. 2,000 crores
approximately, and therefore it is absolutely unfathomable to
comprehend that any person can respond to observations on a real time
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 33 - basis after a gap of more than four years. The number of transactions in
the case of assessee would be close to 1 lakh and, in such a situation,
vague observation on approximately 70 transaction at the fag end period
of limitations and that too by riot granting time to respond to said
observations reflects the mid-set of learned Assessing Officer. The
cursory attempt to examine burden was with a premeditated and
preconceived opinion to direct the accounts for special audit. Madam,
volume per se is not and, cannot be a ground for special audit. For in
such a case, every assessee with a turnover of sufficient magnitude
(which magnitude is also undefined) would have to get his accounts
audited, which is not the mandate of law, despite the books already
having been audited under Income Tax Act not Companies Act . The
volume can be a consideration only having regard to interest of revenue,
which is absent in the instant case. No material to the said effect has
been confronted and in absence thereof, even otherwise, the proposal is
without jurisdiction. This submission is supported by chart hereunder: auditor. True that an order under the said provision cannot be
 passed on the ipse dixit of the Assessing Officer merely because
 he finds some difficulty in understanding the accounts. There has
 to be a genuine and honest attempt on his part to understand the
 accounts of the assessed, appreciate the entries therein and if in
 doubt, seek Explanation from the assessed or his representative,
 rather than pass on the buck to the special auditor. A cursory
 look on the books of accounts is not sufficient. It needs little
 emphasis that the opinion required to be formed by the Assessing
 Officer for exercise of power under Section 142(2A) must be
 based on objective consideration and not on the basis of
 subjective satisfaction. Similarly, the requirement of the previous
 approval of the Chief commissioner or the Commissioner, being
 an in-built protection against any arbitrary or unjust exercise of
 power by the Assessing Officer, casts a very heavy duty on the
 said high ranking authority to see to it that the requirement of the
 previous approval, envisaged in the Section, is not turned into an
 empty ritual. Needless to add that before granting approval, the
 Chief Commissioner or the Commissioner, as the case may be,
 must have before him the material on the basis whereof an
 opinion in this behalf has been formed by the Assessing Officer.
 The approval must reflect the application of mind to the facts of
 the case. A bare endorsement of the proposal would not be
 sufficient. Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. v.
 Dy. CIT (1999] 236 ITR 671 (Cal) and and Muthoottu Mini
 Kuries v. Dy. CIT [2001] 250 ITR 455 (Ker) hold so." (Emphasis
 supplied)

3.7 Infact follow the aforesaid judgment the Hon'ble le Delhi High
Court in DDA vs. Union of India reported in 350 ITR 432 has held as
under: 3.8 Reliance is also placed on the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of CIT vs. Excel Industries reported in 358 ITR 295 wherein it has been held as
under: 12. It emerges out that both the ld. revenue authorities have not taken
into consideration the objection submitted by the assessee and proceed
to appoint the special auditor. The assessee raised a specific objection
before the ld.DRP. The ld.DRP took cognizance of the assessee's
contentions on page no.3 of the impugned order, which was rejected by
recording the following finding: 13. Before adverting to the above facts, in order to find out whether
the facts in the present year is similar to that of assessment year 2009-10
and order of the Tribunal which has been accepted by the department
deserves to be followed or not. We deem it appropriate to take note of
the finding of the Tribunal in the assessment year 2009-10. First
proposition, which was contested before the Tribunal for the assessment
year 2009-10 was that order passed under section 142(2A) of the Act was
cryptic and non-speaking order, because no specific instance of
complexity with regard to the books of accounts were pointed out in the
said order. It was also contended that objections raised by the assessee
against appointment of such auditor were not considered or discussed
in the order passed under section 142(2A) of the Act. The AO while
exercising power under section 142(2A) was required to assign reason
and it should be based on objective criterion and not on the basis of
subjective satisfaction. In the words, the AO ought to have visualized
the complexity of accounts and compelling circumstances for exercising
such power. It was also contended that though while making a proposal
for approval, an opportunity was provided to the assessee, but after
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 40 - submitting explanation no opportunity was granted to the assessee, nor
any reasons were assigned. The proposal was sent without
communicating to the assessee and the ld.Commissioner has approved
the proposal. Thereafter, an order under section 142 (2A ) was passed
running into few lines. The question was also raised before the Tribunal
that it has no jurisdiction to entertain objection of the assessee against
appointment of special auditor. The Tribunal after taking into
consideration time limit provided in section 153(1) of the Act for passing
assessment order observed that the assessment order in assessment year
2009-10 was to be passed before 31.12.2011 whereas, it was passed on
1.82012. The special auditor was appointed on 8.12.2011 just 23 days
prior to expiry of limitation for passing the assessment order. Thus, in
this given factual matrix, the Tribunal has considered that had the case
was not referred for special auditor, the assessment would have become
time barred and in order to gain time, a reference for appointment of
special auditor was made. Let us take note of relevant finding of the
Tribunal on this issue: IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 42 - 23 The aforesaid provision was subject matter of consideration in a judgment of
three judges Bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sahara India
(Firm ) (supra). In that case the matter was placed before Bench in view of a
common order dated 14.12.2006 passed by a two judges Bench to examine
whether it is necessary to afford an opportunity of hearing to an assessee before
ordering special audit in terms of section 142(2A) of the Act in view of the
earlier judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Rajesh Kumar and
Ors. vs. DCIT (supra). Their Lordships noted that in the case of Rajesh Kumar
and Ors. vs. DCIT it has been held that principles of natural justice must be
held to be implicit in section 142(2A) of the Act. It was noted that in the
aforesaid judgment it was held as under: 24. Having regard to the above, Their Lordships interpreted section
142(2A) of the Act to conclude that the twin conditions of "nature and
complexity of the accounts" and "the interests of the revenue" are the pre-
requisites for exercise of power under section 142(2A) of the Act. It was held
that the word "complexity" used in section 142(2A) is not "defined" or
"explained" in the Act and therefore approving the interpretation of the
Hon'ble Allahabad High Court in the case of Swadeshi Cotton Mills Co. Ltd.
vs. CIT 171 ITR 634 (All.), it was held that dictionary meaning of complex is
"The state or quality of being intricate or complex or that is difficulty to
understand. However all that is difficult to understand should not be regarded
as complex. What is complex to one, may be simple to another. It depends upon
one's level of understanding or comprehension. Sometimes, what appears to be
complex on the face of it, may not be really so if one tries to understand it
carefully". It was further held that before dubbing the accounts to be complex
or difficult to understand, there has to be a genuine and honest attempt on the
part of the AO to understand accounts maintained by the assessee; appreciate
the entries made therein and in the event of any doubt, seek explanation from
the assessee. It was further held that opinion required to be formed by the AO
for exercise of power under the said provision 26 must be based on objective
criteria and not on the basis of subjective satisfaction. It was specifically
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 43 - observed that recourse to the said provision cannot be had by the AO merely to
shift his responsibility of scrutinizing the accounts of an assessee and pass on
the buck to the special auditor. In regard to the approval of CIT it was held that
such an approval is an inbuilt protection and is not an empty ritual. It was
thus observed before granting approval the Chief Commissioner or the
Commissioner, as the case may be, must have before him the material on the
basis whereof an opinion in this behalf has been formed by the AO and the
approval must reflect the application of mind to the facts of the case. Thereafter
the question whether the principles of natural justice demand that an
opportunity of hearing should be afforded to an assessee before an order under section 142(2A) of the Act was examined. Their Lordships concurring with the
decision in Rajesh Kumar (supra) held that an order under section 142(2A) does entail civil consequences and therefore the rule of audi alteram partem is
required to be observed. It was concluded with regard to the question posed as
under: 25. Thereafter on application of the legal position to the facts their Lordships
concluded that the order dated 14.3.2006 u/s 142(2A) of the Act was vitiated as
neither AO had occasion to have a glimpse of the accounts and nor any show
cause notice was issued to the assessee and thus the same did not satisfy the
principle of audi alteram partem. Concluding the above discussion, it was held
as under: 26. A reading of the aforesaid makes it apparent that Their Lordships agreed
with the submission of the learned Additional Solicitor General that
interpretation be given prospective effect as otherwise the interest of revenue
will be greatly prejudiced because the time to frame fresh assessment for the
relevant assessment year by ignoring the extended period of limitation in terms
of Explanation 1(iii) to sub-section (3) of section 153 of the Act was already
over. It was thus directed that petitioners will not be entitled to urge before the
appellate authorities that the extended period of limitation under Explanation
1(iii) to section 153(3) of the Act was not available to the Assessing Officer
because of an invalid order u/s 142(2A) of the Act. It has been specifically
clarified that it will be open to the appellants to question before the appellate
authority, if so advised, the correctness of the material gathered on the basis of
the audit report submitted under sub-section (2A) of section 142 of the Act. 27. In other words it is quite apparent that the challenge to the validity of
the orders u/s 142(2A) of the Act is maintainable before the appellate authority
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 45 - and it is opened to the appellant to urge before any appellate authority that the
extended period of limitation is not maintainable because of an invalid order u/s 142(2A) of the Act. The above view finds support also from the judgment of
Hon'ble Karnataka High Court in the case of CIT v Subboji Rao C.H (supra).
In the said case the Tribunal held that there was no complexity in accounts
requiring an audit u/s 142(A) of the Act and the same had been taken to avail
of further time to complete the assessment, the assessment was hopelessly
barred by limitation. On appeal by the revenue, the decision of ITAT was
upheld by observing as under: 28. Further even in the case of CIT v Vijay Kumar Rajendra Kumar and Co.
(MP ) (supra), the ITAT quashed direction u/s 142(2A) of the Act since no
opportunity of hearing was afforded to the assessee before issuing the direction
for getting the audit done and since the accounts did not involve any
complexity and held therefore the assessment made is barred by limitation.
However though the Hon'ble High Court reversed the decision of Tribunal on
the ground that the direction u/s 142(2A) of the Act was legal, proper and
valid and legally sustainable and therefore the order of assessment within the
period of limitation but hereto it was neither challenged nor disputed that
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 46 - validly of directions cannot be challenged before the appellate authority so as to
contend the assessment order is barred by limitation. 29. Similar view was expressed by Jodhpur Bench in the case of Bajrang
Textiles v DCIT (supra). It was concluded in the said decision that accounts
were not complex as required u/s 142(2A) of the Act and reference has been
made with a sole motive to enhance the limit for making of the assessment. It
was thus concluded reference made by the AO for special audit is without
proper jurisdiction and assessment so made is barred by limitation. The
aforesaid decision stands affirmed by the Rajahstan High Court in the case of
CTT v Bajrang Textiles (supra) wherein it has been observed as under: 30. Having regard to the above discussion we have no doubt in our mind
that the contention raised by the appellant is maintainable in this appeal. In
otherwords, the appellants are entitled to urge, argue and plead that order of
assessment is barred by limitation on the ground that direction u/s 142(2A) of
the Act were invalid and not legally sustainable. 31 Having held so, we now examine the validity of the direction issued u/s
142(2A) of the Act. In the instant case, directions dated 9.12.2011 signed by
Addl. Commissioner of Income Tax, Range-18, New Delhi read as under: Sir,
 Please refer to the subject cited above
 Having regard to the nature and complexity of your accounts
 and interest of the revenue and being of the opinion, it is necessary so to
 do I hereby direct you to get your accounts audited u/s 142(2A) of the
 Income Tax Act 1961 for f.Y. 2008-09 pertaining to A.y. 2009-10 by
 M/s Dass Gupta and Associates, B-4, Gulmohar Park, New Delhi and
 to furnish a report on such audit in the prescribed performa duly signed
 and verified by the CA. The audit report u/s 142(2A) should be
 furnished by you to the undersigned within a period of 120 days from
 the date of receipt of this direction. This direction u/s 142(2A) is issued
 with the prior approval of Commissionier of Income Tax, Delhi-VI, New
 Delhi vide letter F.No. CIT/Delhi-VI/Spl..Audit/2011- 12/2233 dated
 9.12.2011

 Yours faithfully
 (Addl. Commissioner of Income Tax
 Range-18, New Delhi

 Copy to: Yours faithfully
 (Addl. Commissioner of Income Tax Range-18, New Delhi" Similarly, in case of Dhondi Ba Gundu Proma Je v. State of
 Maharashtra AIR 1976 SC 1151, the High Court had dismissed a
 criminal appeal summarily under section 421 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure by one word order "dismissed", it was held that some reasons
 should have been given by the High Court why no arguable case was
 made out on a perusal of the record. There is a vital difference between
 the conclusions and reasons. Reasons are the links between the material
 on which conclusions are based. The actual conclusion should disclose
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 49 - how the mind is applied to the subject matter for a decision, and should
 reveal a rational nexus between the facts considered and the conclusion
 reached See Union of India v. M.L. Capoor AIR 1974 SC 87 on p. 98. 9. Therefore, we are of the view that reasons must be recorded in the
 order to show that there is application of mind on the part of the officer
 concerned on the basis of the material available on record and in the
 absence of reasons in the order for the direction as contemplated under section 142(2)(a) , the order vitiates in law and is not
 sustainable."[underlined by us] 35. The Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of Bal Kishan
Dhawan (HUF) vs. UOI (supra) dealing with requirements of passing a
reasoned order has relied upon the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of Kranti Associates (P) Ltd. vs. Masood (supra) which had laid down as
under: n. Since the requirement to record reasons emanates from the broad
 doctrine of fairness in decision making, the said requirement is now
 virtually a component of human rights and was considered part of
 Strasbourg Jurisprudence. See (1994) 19 EHRR 553, at 562 para 29 and
 Anya vs. University of Oxford, 2001 EWCA Civ 405, wherein the
 Court referred to Article 6 of European Convention of Human Rights
 which requires, "adequate and intelligent reasons must be given for
 judicial decisions". o. In all common law jurisdictions judgments play a vital role in setting
 up precedents for the future. Therefore, for development of law,
 requirement of giving reasons for the decision is of the essence and is
 virtually a part of "Due Process". 36. Examining the impugned order in the present case, it is apparent that
the order is non speaking order and gives no reasons for arriving at the
conclusion that having regard to the nature and complexity of assessee's
accounts and interest of the revenue, the AO was of the opinion that accounts
are to be audited u/s 142(2A) of the Act. The order is silent as to on what basis
and on what grounds, the accounts proposed to audit under section 142(2A) were considered complex and on what considerations it was arrived that it is in
the interest of revenue to direct audit of accounts. Mere reference to a prior
approval of CIT does not satisfy the precondition of a "speaking order" 37. Having regard to the above it is held that in the impugned order reasons
are clearly invisible and conspicuous by their absence. In other words, order is
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 51 - bereft of any reason. It is stated here that reasons are heart and soul of an order,
as they facilitate the process of judicial review and therefore in absence of any
reason much less cogent, clear and succinct reasons order u/s 142(2A) of the
Act is held to be bad in law and without proper jurisdiction. 38. Also, even the approval u/s 142(2A) by learned CIT should reflect
application of mind and should not be mechanical as held by the judgment of
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sahara India (Firm) vs. CIT (supra). The
Hon'ble Allahabad High Court in the case of Kaka Carpets v ACIT (supra)
following the above judgment has held as under: 39. Also in the case of United Electricals Co. (P) Ltd. vs. CIT (supra), it has
been held as under: 14. In the light of the above, let us examine the parity of facts between
both the years. In para-31 ITAT has reproduced the order of the Addl.
Commissioner dated 8.12.2011 vide which special auditor was
appointed. At the cost of repetition we would like to take note of this
order along with order dated 26.3.2014 passed in present assessment
years. Both the orders are passed as under: Unitech Ltgd.,11-12/1093 Dated: 14/AAACU1482H/142(2A)/951 Dated: is necessary so to do I hereby direct you to 10(relevant to A.Y.2010-11) i.e. Nature
get your accounts audited u/s 142(2A) of & Complexity, Volume, Doubts about the
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 53 - the Income Tax Act 1961 for f.Y. 2008-09 correctness, Multiplicity of transactions
pertaining to A.y. 2009-10 by M/s Dass and Sepcialised nature of business
Gupta and Associates, B-4, Gulmohar activity of the assessee with a direct
Park, New Delhi and to furnish a report bearing on the interest of Revenue, I
on such audit in the prescribed performa hereby direct you to get your accounts
duly signed and verified by the CA. The audited u/s.142(2A) of the |Income Tax
audit report u/s 142(2A) should be Act, 1961 for the said F.Y.2009-10 by: IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 54 - Both orders are identically worded without taking cognizance of any of
the submissions made by the assessee. The order passed by the learned
Additional Commissioner does not spell out any reasons exhibiting
complexity of the accounts and what prevented him for passing
assessment order. This aspect has been elaborately considered by the
ITAT in the assessment year 2009-10. It is also pertinent to note that
after making an analysis of this order, ITAT took into consideration
objection filed by the assessee on the alleged proposal for appointment
of special auditor. We have taken cognizance of such objection in the
present assessment year in para-10 of the order. In the light of the
ITAT's finding in the assessment year 2009-10, we have analysed the
objection of the assessee in the present assessment year and find that
these objections were also similar to that of the assessment year 2009-10.
Revenue took an objection to the Tribunal in the assessment year 2009-
10 that when a proposal for appointment of special auditor was made
then the ld. Commissioner has assigned reasons which we have taken
into consideration in the present assessment year in paragraph 9. But
the Tribunal was of the view that there was no application of mind on
such grounds while passing final order appointing special auditors i.e.
9.12.2011 in the assessment year 2009-10 and in present assessment years
it is the order dated 26.3.2014. Considering from all possible angle, there
is no disparity of facts between both the years. Department has
accepted order of the Tribunal in the assessment year 2009-10 and not
file further appeal. Therefore, we do not find any reasons to deviate
from finding of the Tribunal in the assessment year 2090-10. We allow
 IT(TP)A No.6181/Del/2015 and 2 Others
 Unitech Ltd.Vs. DCIT, New Delhi - 55 - the preliminary objection raised by the assessee and concur with the
following direction of the Tribunal in the assessment year 2009-10. 16. Respectfully following the order of ITAT in assessment year 2009-
10, we allow the preliminary grounds of appeal raised by the assessee
and hold that directions dated 26.03.2014 by the learned Addl. CIT,
Range-18, New Delhi for special audit under section 142(2A) of the Act
were illegal, invalid and not in accordance with the law; therefore, the
assessment order impugned in the present appeal is barred by limitation
and thus quashed. Since we have allowed preliminary ground of
appeal in assessee's appeal and quashed the assessment order, the CO
and appeal of Revenue would become redundant and accordingly
dismissed. 17. In the result, appeal of the assessee is allowed on preliminary
ground, appeal of Revenue and its CO are dismissed. Pronounced in the Open Court on 27th June, 2018.