HARYANA CONTAINERS LIMITED THRU CHAULA MAHENDRAPRASAD
 SHASTRI
 Versus
 KS INFRASPACE LLP THRU KETAN BHAILAL SHAH
==========================================================
Appearance: 2. The facts reflecting from Appeal From Order
No.72 of 2019 are that K.S.Infraspace LLP through its
partner Ketan Bhailal Shah had instituted a suit
being Special Civil Suit No.322 of 2018 in the Court
of learned Principal Civil Judge at Vadodara for
seeking declaration and specific performance against
the defendant i.e. Haryana Containers Ltd. on the
premise that, the plaintiff is a limited liability
partnership firm involved in the business of real
estate and engaged in the property development since
last number of years in the city of Vadodara. The Page 2 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

defendant is a limited company registered under the
provisions of the Companies Act , which is a wholly
owned subsidiary of Ambalal Sarabhai Enterprise
Limited and is claiming to be in possession of
various parcels of land as shown in the map enclosed
with the draft memorandums of understanding dated
29.3.2018 and 30.3.2018 admeasuring 1260 sq.mtrs.
and 5442 sq.mtrs of City Survey Nos.921 of Village
Subhanpura. The defendant i.e. Haryana Containers
Limited was desirous of selling the above parcels of
land with right, title and interest in the name of
the company (wholly owned subsidiary) as stated
above, in all 6702 sq.mtrs. for their personal need
as well as for funds needed for business and to meet
with various financial commitments. In the year 2012,
the defendant had negotiated and struck the deal with
the plaintiff for selling said parcels of land as a
result of this, series of meetings, telephonic
conversations and exchange of emails took place
between Mr. Kartikeya Sarabhai & Director of the
defendant company, Chavla Shastri and Nimish Vasa,
Escrow Agent, on the side, and the plaintiff's
partner, Mr. Ketan Shah which ultimately resulted
into the deal. The total consideration was also
fixed, as stated in the plaint, which is roughly
estated to Rs.31,81,73,076/­. According to the
plaintiff, the contracts between the plaintiff and
the defendant stood concluded, terms were finalised
after series of negotiations and the final memorandum
of understanding and the agreement to sell exchanged
vide emails dated 29.3.2018 and 30.3.2018 and Page 3 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

according to the plaintiff, even after acceptance of
the final draft and after conclusion of the
transaction, vide email dated 30.3.2018, the contract
came into existence and the payment was also made by
token amount of Rs.2.16 crores for the whole suit
property on 10.1.2018. It is the case of the
plaintiff that throughout, the plaintiff was ready
and willing to perform his part of the contract,
however, despite such readiness, the defendant turned
around from the said concluded contract and to the
utter shock of the plaintiff, the defendant backed
out from the deal by way of sending email on
31.1.2018 at about 5.24 p.m. and returned the amount
of Rs.2.16 crores through RTGS. It has come to the
knowledge that after such conduct having been shown
and though the plaintiff has fully managed the entire
amount of consideration to be paid, it was
apprehended that to defeat such concluded contract,
the defendant is likely to back out and has entered
into a registered agreement to sell with defendant
No.2 i.e. Neptune Infraspace Pvt. Ltd of Special
Civil Suit No. 323 of 2018, as a result of this, the
present plaintiff had to file this suit for the
purpose of seeking specific performance of memorandum
of understanding/agreement to sell/contract with
respect to the land in question. This suit filed by
the present plaintiff numbered as Special Civil Suit
No. 323 of 2018 appears to have been presented in the
month of October, 2018. 3. Similar is the position with respect to Appeal Page 4 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

from Order No.73 of 2019 which is arising out of the
very same order dated 18.2.2019 in which Special
Civil Suit No. 323 of 2018 is filed against two
defendants namely, Ambalal Sarabhai Enterprise Ltd.
and Neptune Infraspace Pvt. Ltd. So far as this
Appeal From Order is concerned, it is filed by
Ambalal Sarabhai Enterprise Ltd., original defendant
No.1 of Special Civil Suit No. 323 of 2018 in which
the facts are almost similar, but parcel of land is
different. In this suit being Special Civil Suit No.
323 of 2018, the plaintiff i.e. K.S.Infraspace LLP
has entered into transaction with the defendant No.1,
which is a Public Limited Company holding the
ownership and possession of various pieces of land
mentioned in memorandum of understanding dated
29.3.2018 and 30.3.2018 respectively. Such lands are: 4. It is the further case of this appellant that
the defendant No.1 i.e. Ambalal Sarabhai Enterprise
Ltd. wanted to sell the aforesaid lands for their
personal as well as business need and to fulfill Page 5 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

various funding commitments. The negotiation for that
took place right from 2012 which, according to the
appellant, has culminated into a concluded contract
through series of meetings, telephonic conversation
and exchange of emails with Mr. Kartikeya Sarabhai &
Director of defendant company, Chaula Shastri and Mr.
Nimish Vasa, Escrow Agent on the side of defendant
with plaintiff's partner Mr. Ketan Shah. This portion
of land was agreed to be sold for a total
consideration of Rs.58,26,86,984/­. According to the
plaintiff, the terms and conditions were finalized
after series of negotiations and the defendant agreed
to sell the aforesaid (A), (B) and (C) immovable
properties described in the schedule and the same
were reduced in writing finally which was received
by the plaintiff in terms of revised draft memorandum
of understanding and agreement to sell vide emails
dated 29.3.2018 as well as 30.3.2018. According to
the plaintiff of this suit, on 30.3.2018, the
contract came into existence and token amount of
Rs.2.16 crores was already paid on 10.1.2018. It is
the further case of the plaintiff of that suit that
throughout, the plaintiff was ready and willing to
perform his part of the contract and was ready and
willing to pay the balance amount for which, an
arrangement was already made but later on, defendant
No.1, even after finalizing the memorandum of
understanding as well as agreement to sell, has
backed out and entered into a transaction with
defendant No.2 and has returned back the amount of
Rs.2.16 crores through RTGS. Though, according to the Page 6 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

plaintiff, the contract came to be concluded on
30.3.2018 or at the best on 31.3.2018, defendant
No.1 disowned the concluded contract and has entered
into fraudulently an agreement with defendant No.2
i.e. Neptune Infra Space Pvt. Ltd. which has given
rise to filing of the aforesaid suit for specific
performance and also for a declaration against the
defendants. 5. Similar is the case with respect to Appeal From
Order No.74 of 2019 filed by original defendant No.2
against the common order dated 18.2.2019 passed in
Special Civil Suit No. 323 of 2018. The facts
emanating from this Appeal From Order are identical
in nature which are mentioned hereinabove in Appeal
From Order No.73 of 2019 and hence, the Court need
not repeat the same but this action of the defendants
have given rise to aforesaid two suits which are
filed for seeking declaration and specific
performance in which it appears from the record that
original plaintiff has filed an application for
injunction below Exh.5 inter alia seeking relief
against the defendants from executing any further
document including the sale deed with respect to the
lands which are described in the prayer clause and
also prayed that defendant No.2 be prevented from
creating any further charge or interest or deal with
aforesaid subject matter of the suit. The injunction
below Exh.5 in Special Civil Suit No. 323 of 2018 is
almost similar to that of Exh.5 application of
Special Civil Suit No. 322 of 2018 in which the Page 7 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

defendants were requested to be restrained from
executing any document including sale deed in favour
of any third party or creating any charge, interest
or deal with the aforesaid land in any manner.
Simultaneously, it appears that the defendants have
also filed an application at Exh.18 under Order 7
Rule 11(d) for rejection of the plaint essentially on
the ground that land in question is a commercial land
exclusively utilised for commercial purpose and
looking to the valuation and the nature of the land,
the suit itself is hit by the provisions of Commercial Courts Act and by referring to section
2(c) as well as Section 2(c)(vii) of Commercial
Courts Act, a contention is raised that suit itself
is not maintainable since the dispute is arising out
of an agreement related to immovable property used
exclusively in trade or commerce, hence, the plaint
be under Order 7 Rule 11(d) or in the alternative,
the same be returned under Order 7 Rule 10 of CPC so
as to present it before the concerned Commercial
Court. These two applications i.e. Exh.5 and Exh.18
appear to have been clubbed at the request of learned
advocates and these applications were heard together
and decided by common judgment and order dated
18.2.2019 by the learned 5th Additional Senior Civil
Judge, Vadodara whereby the application Exh.18 filed
under Order 7 Rule 11 as well as Order 7 Rule 10 of
CPC came to be rejected whereas application Exh.5
filed under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 came to be allowed
and the defendants' side was ordered to be
temporarily restrained from executing any further Page 8 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

document including sale deed pertaining to the land
till the final disposal of the main suit proceedings
and it was also ordered not to create any charge,
interest or deal with the land in any manner and
also ordered to restrain from signing any document
till the final disposal of the suit and it is this
common judgment dated 18.2.2019 in so far it relates
to application Exh.5, which is made the subject
matter of challenge in the aforesaid proceedings. 6. At the request of the learned advocates
appearing for the parties, these three Appeals From
Order were taken up for hearing conjointly and are
being decided by this common judgment and order. 7. Learned Senior Advocate, Mr. Mihir Joshi
appearing with learned advocate, Ms.Megha Jani for
the appellant­Haryana Containers Ltd. has vehemently
submitted that no contract has been concluded with
the original plaintiff­K.S.Infraspace LLP in any
manner. It has been submitted that there is no
specific prayer made in the suit as to which
agreement is sought to be specifically performed. A
bare reading of the cause of the suit itself makes it
clear that alternative reliefs are sought in the suit
which are thoroughly vague and on that count alone,
no specific performance even otherwise be granted. It
has been submitted that there is no specific signed
agreement which can even infer the concluded contract
in favour of the plaintiff. Even the emails and
WhatsApp correspondences, which are reflecting on the Page 9 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

record, are also clearly missing the unequivocal
intention of agreement and in the absence of any
unconditional acceptance, the oral agreement of the
contract cannot be inferred. It has been submitted
that when the case is based upon oral agreement, the
heavy burden is lying on the plaintiff to plead and
to establish even a cogent inference of the oral
contract. It is a settled position of law that no
doubt oral agreement is permissible under the law but
the assertion of acceptance must be unequivocal and
must be in clear terms and simply because
negotiations have taken place, no inference can be
drawn of concluded contract. If only unequivocal
acceptance is reflecting then only the binding effect
can be attached which is completely missing here on
the basis of which, no relief can be granted. The
learned Senior Advocate by drawing attention to
various averments contained in the plaint itself
precisely from paragraphs 4 and 14 has contended
that prayer itself is also vague since apparently the
plaintiff has miserably failed in showing even a
single memorandum of understanding which is
confirmed by the defendants. Mere exchange of several
draft agreements would not constitute remotely even
an oral contract. According to learned Senior
Advocate, Mr. Joshi, the learned Judge has
completely overlooked the material circumstances
which are apparently emerging from the record and
intention of party to be bound is not reflecting at
all and no written agreement has been actually
signed. Even the required amount of payment has also Page 10 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

not been effected and there is remotely no material
to allow the parties to read down the concluded
contract. When that be so, on the basis of mere draft
which is not signed by any of the parties, the same
cannot take place of a concluded contract, as a
result of this, no specific performance is possible
and when that be so, the question of granting interim
relief does not arise. 8. Mr. Joshi, learned Senior Advocate has further
submitted that various drafts have been exchanged and
the terms were not finalized and looking at the
aforesaid material changes which are taking place
from time to time are clearly indicating that the
defendants originally have shown an inclination to
meet with the income tax liability latest by 30th
March, 2018 but the same has not been acted upon at
all. When several memorandums of understanding
underwent material alteration and changes and the
contract has not resulted into finality nor even
signed, it is not open for the plaintiff to treat
these mere drafts as a concluded contract to come out
for specific performance. Mr. Joshi has further
contended that it was clearly mentioned by the
defendants to the plaintiff on 30.3.2018 itself and
have returned the amount and suit appears to have
been filed after almost a period of seven months and
this delay has not been explained. This injunction
relief being essentially governed by the rule of
equity, the very conduct of the plaintiff is
suggesting that the said relief cannot be granted Page 11 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

particularly in a suit which has been filed for
seeking specific performance. Various exchange of
emails and mere drafts are indicating that the
plaintiff's request for injunction on both the counts
i.e. on the count of conduct as well as on the count
of delay cannot be granted looking at the well
recognized principle of equity. Even the entire
correspondences which have taken place between the
parties are not suggesting even remote acceptance of
the defendants. The Court without looking at it ought
not to have granted relief in favour of the plaintiff
which has got a far reaching consequences. Mr. Joshi
has further submitted that on the contrary, conduct
is suggesting a serious attempt by the plaintiff to
drag the defendants to a situation where the
defendants may be embarrassed. The averments
contained in the plaint are, on the contrary,
suggesting that the suit itself is not maintainable
and maintainability of the main proceeding since is a
relevant consideration, by ignoring the same, no
order of injunction could have been granted. This
being the position, the order in question deserves to
be set aside. 9. For the purpose of substantiating these
submissions, learned Senior Advocate, Mr. Joshi has
heavily relied upon the averments made in the plaint
precisely at paragraphs 4, 5 and 7 and by referring
to several other paragraphs of the plaint, a
contention is raised that such a suit is not possible
to be entertained, resultantly, since the plaintiff Page 12 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

is not exactly in a position to show a clear cause of
action and upon which he is seeking specific
performance, the relief which has been granted by the
court below is nothing but a clear example of non­
application of mind. Learned Senior Advocate has
further submitted by referring to series of WhatsApp
communications, which are reflecting from pages 101
to 109 of the paper book compilation, that throughout
these WhatsApp correspondences, not a single
circumstance is emerging that there was a complete
agreement that the plaintiff has entered into
transaction and which has been concluded. On the
contrary, from the beginning, the plaintiff was aware
about the fact that in parallel proceedings,
negotiations were going on with other party as well
and as such, it is not correct to conclude that
behind the back of the plaintiff, something is done
by the defendants. Various WhatsApp exchanges have
been brought to the notice of this Court including
various MOUs as well as agreement to sell and by
referring to these documents, it has been submitted
that these MOUs and agreement to sell are mere
drafts, not attained finality and underwent series of
changes which ultimately have not been finally
concluded and accepted. It has been submitted that
payment of Rs.2.16 crores which has been stated to
have been given in January, 2018 has no connection
with these transaction and it was a mere financial
assistance and as such, learned Senior Advocate has
submitted that here is the case in which no final
conclusive terms have been agreed upon which may Page 13 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

infer remotely a concluded contract. Mr. Joshi,
learned Senior Advocate has further submitted that on
the contrary, for the income tax purpose and its
liability, the inclination was shown to sell some
part of the lands, which was only for the purpose of
mitigating such need which arose to be cleared by
30.3.2018, latest by April, 2018. The learned Senior
Advocate has further submitted that this transaction
which defendant No.1 took place with defendant No.2
is an agreement by virtue of which the payments which
have been made have been directly appropriated
towards the income tax liability which are clearly
reflecting from page 474 onwards. By referring to
page 474/11, learned Senior Advocate has submitted
that defendant No.2 has entered into a transaction
which is registered on 31.3.2018 and towards the
same, payments have also been realized on 30.3.2018
which amount has been appropriated towards the income
tax liability and this was clearly known from the
beginning that this transaction is going to take
place to meet with these liabilities and this
negotiation with other party was also well within the
knowledge of the plaintiff and so it is not that some
under dealing has taken place in any manner. He has
drawn the attention towards the WhatsApp
correspondences precisely communication dated
18.12.2017 at 12.06 p.m. as well as at 12.14 p.m. By
referring to further communications of 20.12.2017 at
9.26 a.m. and 25.12.2017 at 10.15 a.m., it has been
conveyed that it was not that only with the
plaintiff, the transaction was being negotiated and Page 14 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

even the plaintiff was also aware about the fact that
with original defendant No.2 also, the negotiations
were going on. It has been submitted that these
correspondences of WhatsApp went on which has not
attained any finality in any form. On the contrary,
the action of the plaintiff of Special Civil Suit No.
323 of 2018 in approaching the Income Tax Department
directly without consent or without consulting
defendant No.1 has got the effect of derailing the
negotiation and ultimately a board meeting took place
which was also well within the knowledge of the
plaintiff. It was pointed out that since the same was
within the knowledge of the plaintiff, Ascrow agent
Nimish Vasa on 26.3.2018 at 10.27 p.m. has
indicated that if tighter terms are required for good
execution and if any penalty is to be inflicted upon,
then also problem can be discussed. Now this is
indicating that defendant No.1 was not inclined to
conclude the contract and the transaction has never
been finalized. It was submitted that on the
contrary, Ascrow agent for some reason was more
inclined rather than original plaintiff who was aware
about the ground reality. Learned Senior Advocate has
further submitted that if the communications of
29.3.2018 as well as 30.3.2018 are closely read, it
would indicate that there was no unequivocal
acceptance of any nature. On the contrary, it was
other way round. In fact, this episode which took
lace on 30.3.2018 is indicating that atleast from
that day, the plaintiff knew about the fact of non­
inclination to move any further in respect of Page 15 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

transaction and further the same was specifically
conveyed by returning even the amount of Rs.2.16
crores which was by way of personal loan according to
defendant No.1. The sum and substance of these
correspondences which took place on WhatsApp nowhere
is indicating that any final assertion of acceptance
has taken place from the side of the defendants. On
the contrary, it reflects that denial was very much
communicated. It is not understandable as to why for
a pretty long period of seven months after getting
back the amount of Rs.2.16 crores, the plaintiff has
remained silent. This delay which is unexplained is
fatal to the case of the plaintiff and at least for
not getting any interim relief, resultantly, the
order at Exh.5 is not tenable. 10. Mr.Mihir Joshi, learned Senior Advocate has
further submitted that the huge amount is already
passed on to defendant No.1 by defendant No.2 while
entering into a registered agreement to sell and to
intercept these process of transaction in a situation
like this would clearly has got the serious prejudice
and, therefore, in the absence of any prima facie
case or balance of convenience, no interim relief
could have been granted. Mr.Joshi has further
submitted that apart from this, here is the case in
which, on one side there is a registered agreement to
sell which has already taken place on 31.3.2018 and
on the other side, there is a mere draft of
agreement to sell and memorandum of understanding
which has not even been signed and additionally, the Page 16 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

amount of Rs.2.16 crores was also returned back which
was not even for this transaction. Hence, if the
balance of equity is to be examined, the same is
leaning towards the holder of registered agreement to
sell than that of the plaintiff, hence, no relief
could have been granted in such a situation. Learned
Senior Advocate has submitted that even on the basis
of these material facts, which are reflecting on
record, even specific performance of agreement is not
at all possible and the suit itself appears to be
laconic on cause of action and hence, not tenable. In
such a situation, when the main proceedings are also
not possible to be considered in the light of settled
position of law, the question of grant of interim
relief would not arise, as a result of this, since
the learned Judge has completely misconstrued the
facts, such perversity emerging is required to be
corrected by setting aside the impugned order.
Learned Senior Advocate has submitted that in any
case, there is no prima facie case in favour of the
plaintiff. The balance of convenience and irreparable
aspects are also not leaning in favour of the
plaintiff and even if assuming everything against
the defendant, then also, the relief can be possible
to be compensated in terms of money. The question of
granting interim relief in a situation like this is
nothing but an erroneous exercise of jurisdiction.
Learned Senior Advocate has submitted that as the
registered agreement to sell has already taken place
and the sizable amount has already been passed on, no
injunction can be granted and it is settled position Page 17 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

of law that in all cases, the specific performance
decree cannot be passed keeping in view the
parameters of section 20 of the Specific Relief Act.
It is a settled position of law propounded by series
of decisions that, to grant a decree for specific
performance, several circumstances are to be analysed
and even in case where there is a registered
agreement, then also, if there is a stiff price rise,
there is a change in the background of material facts
and consistent readiness and willingness are the
circumstances by virtue of which, specific
performance may not be granted and by giving lump sum
compensation also, the proceedings can be terminated.
So, here is the case in which there is a reliance of
a mere unsigned agreement to sell which is merely a
draft and the terms have been altered from time to
time which also have not attained any finality and
crucial thing is that even till 30.3.2018, there is
no unequivocal acceptance made by the plaintiff.
Hence, in such a situation, grant of equitable
relief, according to Mr. Joshi, is out of place. 11. In support of the aforesaid stand taken by
original defendant No.1, Mr. Mihir Thakore, learned
Senior Advocate appearing for original defendant
No.2, who is the holder of registered agreement to
sell and who has parted with a sizable amount, has
contended that even remotely, there is no
circumstance which may infer any concluded contract. regarding transaction were going on in parallel with
both the persons and Mr. Nimish Vasa, the person
having a link between the plaintiff and the defendant
and who was an interested person. It has further
been contended that the transaction was to be done
for the purpose of business and meeting with
liability regarding income tax assessment and the
last date was 30.3.2018 since 31.3.2018 was a holiday
being Saturday. The chronology of events according to
Mr. Thakore, learned Senior Advocate is clearly
indicating that there is neither any agreement nor
any concluded contract came into existence. To
substantiate this, learned Senior Advocate has drawn
attention to WhatsApp correspondence of material
dates along with the time and has submitted as if it
is the trial of the suit and thereby contended that
since there is no concluded contract, there is no
question of granting any injunction. It has been
submitted that WhatsApp talks/messages reflecting on
page 104 of paper book compilation more particularly
on 26.3.2018 at 1.29 p.m. and the messages reflecting
on page 106 on 30.3.2018 would clearly indicate that
there is no contract came into existence with the
plaintiff. Furthermore, as per the transaction which
took place by his client with the appellant, a
sizable amount of Rs.34.00 crores appears to have
been paid by defendant No.2 and this fact is very
much reflecting on page 474/Z. By referring to pages
474/U and 474/J, a submission is made by Mr. Thakore,
learned Senior Advocate that this transaction is
essentially meant for clearing income tax assessment Page 19 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

as the deadline was 30.3.2018 and this being a
commercial transaction, one who pays earlier in point
of time can proceed since there was no concluded
contract with the original plaintiff in any form and
as such, the grant of injunction would be nothing but
serious prejudice to his client. It has further been
canvassed that from the beginning, the plaintiff was
aware about the fact that this dealing with M/s
Neptune is going on in parallel and even a public
notice was also given, still, however, after
unreasonable period of time, the suit came to be
filed particularly after the sizable amount was paid
by defendant No.2 and, therefore, this unexplained
delay in approaching the Court would disentitle the
plaintiff from securing any equitable relief. It has
further been contended that apart from delay in
approaching the court by the original plaintiff,
there also appears to be no prima facie case at all
and balance of convenience is also not in favour of
the plaintiff. In fact, if the balance of equity is
to be evaluated, the same would lien in favour of his
client rather than the plaintiff. To strengthen his
submission, learned Senior Advocate has relied upon
the decision delivered by this Court (Coram: Learned Senior Advocate, Mr. Thakore has submitted
that simply because there might be an intention to
enter into the contract, eventually, if it does not
exist, no interference can be drawn about contract
being concluded. He has relied upon yet other
decisions reported in (1997)3 SCC page 1 in the case
of K.S.Vidyanadam and others Vs. Vairavan , (1990)3
SCC page 1 in the case of Mayawanti Vs. Kaushalya
Devi and (2016) SCC Online Bombay 6784 in the case of Rohit A. Kapadia Vs. Perviz J. Modi and by referring
to several paragraphs from those judgments, it has
been submitted that in the absence of existence of
any concluded contract, there is no question of
granting any interim relief and the learned Judge
has materially erred in exercising jurisdiction. By
referring to rojkam, learned Senior Advocate has
submitted that actually, Exh.5 application has never
been heard. What has been heard is an application
filed under Order 7 Rule 11(d) of CPC and, therefore
also, the impugned order which has been passed is in
complete disregard to the principles of natural
justice and hence, the same is required to be quashed
and set aside on this count alone. 12. In counter to this submission, learned Senior
Advocate, Mr. Deven Parikh appearing on behalf of the
plaintiff has submitted that systematic steps have
been taken to reach upto to final stage of the Page 21 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

contract and then at the last moment, returning the
amount and entering into transaction with other
party would be nothing but a clear conduct on account
of which only the injunction has to be given. The
ill­intention on the part the defendant was very
much clear from the WhatsApp correspondences and can
easily infer an intention and the learned Judge,
after overall appreciation of material, was pleased
to grant an interim order which is just and proper.
If the steps could be perused closely, it would make
it clear that the contract did take place but a mere
formality of signing was left out and at this interim
stage of the proceedings, no merit could be examined
as it would be an adjudication of the main suit. At
this stage, the Court has to evaluate as to whether
there exists any prima facie case and there exists
any apprehension as to whether the subject matter of
the suit is to be preserved or not. This having been
opined clearly by the court below, the just and
proper order is passed, according to learned Senior
Advocate, Mr. Deven Parikh since the entire
demonstration from the WhatsApp correspondences and
the assertion of the plaint prima facie suggest
existence of oral contract at least and, therefore,
whether on the basis of this material, suit is
maintainable or not and relief as prayed for is
possible to be granted or not is a matter of trial of
the suit and that has to be allowed to go on without
any hindrance and minute examination is to take
place during the course of trial and as a normal
rule, subject matter of the suit deserves to be Page 22 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

protected and, therefore, rightly the order of
injunction was passed. Learned Senior Advocate, Mr.
Parikh has further submitted that from the overall
material, if we look at a just prior circumstance to
the final draft of memorandum of understanding, then
there appears to be a clear existence of the oral
contract and this being a prima facie material which
is emerging from the record, the discretion has
rightly been exercised. Learned Senior Advocate has
further submitted that the plaintiff was and is
willing to perform its part of contract even till
last day, but surreptitiously behind the back of the
plaintiff, this contract in the form of agreement to
sale has been entered into. Last page of WhatsApp
correspondence would clearly indicate that a
systematic design is executed against the plaintiff.
All these triable issues are to be adjudicated upon
during the course of trial. Simply because some more
amount is paid by another person and agreement to
sale is registered, that would not disentitle the
plaintiff to seek a remedy of injunction. On the
contrary, it is a settled position of law that mere
agreement to sale would not confer any absolute
right, as a result of this, no interference deserves
to be made. Apart from this, a close reading of the
material would also indicate that as on 31st March,
2018, the plaintiff was not aware about denial. On
the contrary, till last moment, the plaintiff was
kept under an impression that transaction is to take
place with the plaintiff. So, even independently, it
has been established that a denial was never Page 23 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

communicated or conveyed to the plaintiff. Their
withdrawal either on 30th or 31st March from the
contract is not supported by any valid material and
this being highly disputed and triable one, the
learned Judge has justifiably exercised the
discretion. It is a settled position of law that
whenever a surrounding circumstance is emerging,
mere non­signing may not affect the legitimate right
at this stage of the proceedings. Mr. Parikh, learned
Senior Advocate has further pointed out the conduct
of the defendant and submitted that the stand taken
by the defendant is nothing but a concoction. There
is a clear conflict between their stand which is
reflecting from the written statement on pages 208
and 209 of paper book compilation and under the
provisions of Contract Act , there is no prohibition
or embargo about entering into oral contract. So,
whether in the absence of any signature, transaction
can be treated as a contract having come into
existence or not is a matter of law and fact which
will have to be examined during the course of trial.
To substantiate his stand, as a part of reiteration,
learned Senior Advocate has drawn the attention to
various contracts of MOUs and then agreement to sale,
copies whereof are given. So much so that map has
also been attached which is a further step in favour
of transaction with the plaintiff and, therefore,
the question of reverting back was out of place for
the defendant. Not only the terms were modulated and
figures were also altered, but even some further
details which are material in nature have also been Page 24 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

furnished which is nothing but a clear step on the
part of the respondent­defendant about the
transaction in question. It is completely incorrect
to state that the plaintiff has lost interest during
any portion of time. On the contrary, the amount was
also kept ready which can meet with the consideration
of the contract. When these situations are
prevailing, it is only then the final draft of
agreement to sale came to be exchanged and now to
back out from that is a conduct which is thoroughly
uncalled for and that is the reason why on such part
only, the matter requires not to be entertained and
the appeals deserve to be dismissed. 13. Mr.Deven Parikh, learned Senior Advocate has
drawn attention towards paragraphs 115 to 124 of the
paper book compilation and submitted that there is
a clear nexus of transaction about the land with the
plaintiff of Rs.2.16 crores and this was not in any
form regarded as a personal loan but it was all the
way for transaction in question and that is the
reason why immediately after entering into agreement
to sale with the other defendant, the amount has been
returned back through RTGS. Mr. Parikh, learned
Senior Advocate has further submitted that this
defendant is armed with a legal team which is
systematically out to go on sending various drafts
and by referring to page 117 of paper book
compilation, it is submitted that exchange of final
draft and agreement to sale through Legal Department
is a final stage of entering into transaction and Page 25 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

sending of final draft of agreement to sale is a
concluded step on the part of the defendant which
would easily infer a clear intention to conclude the
contract. It is submitted that as soon the plaintiff
came to know about the fact regarding return of
amount of Rs.2.16 crores, immediate protest was
lodged and as on 3.4.2018, sufficient balance was
also maintained in the account with a view to
complete their part of the contract by the
plaintiff. The story which has been tried to be
created that amount of Rs.2.16 crores was in the
form of personal loan and not about the transaction,
it may be noted that this stand is nothing but a
clear concoction and as such, when this be the
situation on record, the learned trial Judge has
rightly exercised the discretion. According to him,
as WhatsApp exchanges took place with Ketan and not
with the plaintiff, it cannot be inferred to have
been communicated to the plaintiff and in that view
of the matter, the injunction has been rightly
ordered. It has further been contended that a
defense has been raised that by any means they have
to meet with income tax liability, but then while
entering into transaction in the form of mere
agreement to sale, full amount of income tax is not
yet paid and, therefore, this story of income tax
appears to have been got up just with a view to see
that no injunction be made available to the
plaintiff. According to learned Senior Advocate,
Mr.Parikh, there is a specific pleading of the
plaintiff with regard to an oral contract which can Page 26 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

be easily culled out from material on record and the
plaintiff is able to analyse stagewise step which
would infer existence of an oral contract. It has
further been contended that here is the case in which
whether there exists the oral contract or the
concluded contract is a matter of trial but, all
details about various drafts and final exchange of
ATS and memorandum of understanding are the
circumstances which require adjudication. Even a
reference is made that once upon a time, stringent
terms were being suggested even after dissolution of
the company but till the final draft, there was a
complete ad­idem between the parties. So, under these
systematic steps, the signing of an agreement has
remained merely as a formality and nothing beyond
that. It is not required that in every injunction,
there must be a written contract. On the contrary,
MMS on page 108 dated 31.3.2018 at 9.11 a.m. has
indicated that confirmation was just worked out on
the previous day and, therefore, the story which has
been put up that on 30.3.2018, the plaintiff was
informed about non­entering into or non­continuing
with the transaction and, therefore also, the
injunction has rightly been given. Mr.Parikh has
further submitted that in fact Exh.5 application came
to be decided after giving adequate opportunity and
they have been heard by the learned trial Judge. On
the contrary, there is a clear reference in paragraph
4 that both the learned advocates have argued and
thereafter has mentioned in paragraph 7 on page 16
and, therefore, question of non­hearing of Exh.5 is Page 27 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

also nothing but an illusion in the mind of the
defendant. Mr. Deven Parikh, learned Senior Advocate
has then relied upon the judgment delivered by
Hon'ble Mr. Justice A.S.Kureshi which is part of
paper book compilation on page 70 and another
decision which is reported in AIR 1996(8) SC 1028 in
the case of Kollipara Vs T. Aswatha Narayana to
suggest that case is not made out by the defendant. On the contrary, learned Senior Advocate has relied
upon other decisions reported in (2017)9 SCC 622 in
the case of Nadiminti Suryanarayan Murthy (dead)
through Legal Representatives Vs. Kothurthi Krishna
Bhaskara Rao and others, AIR 1990 SC and (2016) SCC
Online Bombay 6784 in the case of Rohit A. Kapadia
Vs. Perviz J. Modi . Yet another decision which has
been relied upon is reported in AIR 2006 SC page 87
and by referring to the judgment of Hon'ble Mr.
Justice A.S.Kureshi, a contention is raised that a
case is made out by the plaintiff. Lastly, learned
Senior Advocate has submitted that no case is made
out by the defendant as still the plaintiff is ready
and willing to deposit an amount of Rs.2.16 crores
before the registry of this Court or before the Court
concerned to preserve the interest in the subject
matter of the suit and keeping in view the interest
of the defendant as well within a reasonable time
that may be fixed by this Court. With these
submissions, learned Senior Advocate has requested
the Court to dismiss the Appeals From order. 14. In so far as another cognate appeal being Appeal Page 28 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

From Order No.74 of 2019 is concerned, with respect
to another party namely, M/s Haryana Containers
Limited, learned Senior Advocate, Mr. Mehul S Shah
has submitted that there is a clear difference
between prima facie case and prima facie title. Here
is the case in which by execution of registered
agreement to sale, a right is created in favour of
the defendant which would be thwarted by grant of
injunction. On the contrary, this prima facie case
and prima facie title are distinct is very much
reflecting from a decision reported in AIR 1993 SC 276. 15. Mr.Mehul S. Shah, learned Senior Advocate has
further contended that no doubt the oral contract is
enforceable but the same is to be inferred keeping in
view certain provisions of the Contract Act and for
that purpose, learned Senior Advocate has relied upon sections 2(a) , 2(b) and 2(e) of the Contract Act,
1872 for clarifying the situation. It has further
been submitted that a stand has been taken that
cancellation of transaction has taken place but then
cancellation itself is suggesting pre­existence of a
contract. Learned Senior Advocate has vehemently
contended that what would be the effect if the
agreement is not signed and for that purpose, a
reference is made to a decision which is reported in
(2009)2 SCC 582 and by referring to section 10 of the
Specific Relief Act and the explanation contained
therein, it has been submitted that normal rule is to
decree a specific performance and here is the case in Page 29 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

which at this stage whether to pass a decree or not
is yet to be decided and, therefore, at this stage
of the proceedings, when equitable relief is being
sought, the balance has to be struck between both the
sides. It has been submitted that an amount of
Rs.2.16 crores was throughout treated as part of
earnest money then why suddenly the same is to be
canvassed as a personal loan. In fact, it appears
that having realised a situation of embarrassment
being created to somehow come out from the rigors of
contract, a story is put up that amount of Rs.2.16
crores was a personal loan and nothing beyond that
and additionally, the story is created that only with
a view to clear the income tax dues, this transaction
of an urgent nature is created. In fact, the
plaintiff has maintained a sizable amount of balance
in the account for the transaction itself and no
prudent person would keep such a huge amount separate
without any just reason. The readiness and
willingness are continued throughout and there was a
sufficient financial capacity to meet with the
consideration. On the contrary, the last talk is
clearly suggesting that there was no waiver by the
plaintiff and for that purpose, a reference is made
to a decision which is reported in AIR 2017 SC 3608
in the case of Dev Prakash Vs. Indra . Yet another
decision which is referred to and relied upon is
reported in 1983 GLH 538 in the case of Ibrahim Shah
Mohmad and others Vs. Noor Ahmed Noor Mohamed and
others and submitted that status quo has to be
maintained during the trial of the suit which is a Page 30 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

normal rule throughout canvassed by series of
decisions. Thereafter, by referring to a decision
reported in AIR 2005 SC 104 in the case of Maharwal
Khewaji Trust (Regd.), Faridkot Vs. Baldev Dass , a
request is made not to disturb the order which has
been passed by learned court below. Additionally,
certain other decisions have also been cited to
substantiate his contention to ultimate request not
to entertain the appeals which are otherwise not
deserve to be entertained. 16. Having heard the learned advocates appearing for
the parties and having gone through the cases in
detail, certain circumstances are not possible to be
ignored while taking ultimate view in the present
cases. First of all, it is a settled position of law
propounded by the Apex Court in a decision in case of Prasar Bharti v. Board of Control for Cricket in
India & Ors., reported in (2015) 6 SCC 614 that at
the interim stage, minute details and examination of
merit are not to be undertaken. The merits will have
to be considered only to ascertain about existence of
three parameters governing the grant or refusal of
injunction and as such, though learned Senior
Advocates have argued the matters at great length as
if the Court is to undertake mini trial of suit, in
view of the aforesaid proposition of law, this Court
is not required to undertake such exercise as has
been attempted, but would like to follow aforesaid
proposition of law and as such, without much opining
finally on the merit, the brief submissions and the Page 31 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

record are being examined by the Court. 17. A further proposition of law which has been laid
down by Hon'ble Apex Court is reported in (2004) 8
SCC 488 in the case of Maharwal Khewaji Trust
(Regd.), Faridkot Vs. Baldev Dass as also reported in
AIR 2005 SC 104, wherein it has been held that as a
normal rule, status quo during the pendency of the
proceedings has to be preserved unless extra­ordinary
circumstance is emerging and simply because the
litigation will take some more time, same would not
be treated as an exceptional circumstance to alter
the status quo. Keeping the aforesaid proposition laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court, this Court is
examining the submissions in co­relation with the
record as to whether any deviation is possible from
the aforesaid proposition and for that purpose, few
circumstances which are emerging from the record are
not possible to be ignored by the Court. 18. From the paper book which was filed in Appeal
From Order No.73 of 2019, both the sides have
referred to relevant documents and taking note of the
same, first of all the plaint which has been
submitted by K.S.Infraspace LLP suggests that the
averments have been made to substantially plead that
the defendant has accepted the revised draft as a
final draft and the revised draft MOU/ATS, which was
sent with email dated 30.3.2018 was the concluded
contract between them. It has also been asserted in
substance that token amount of Rs.2.16 crores has Page 32 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

been paid on 10.1.2018 in connection with the
transaction in question since the sale and purchase
were orally agreed at the relevant point of time and
then final drafts with certain modifications have
been exchanged. It has also been asserted in the
plaint that after acceptance of payment towards part
sale consideration, the defendant has provided all
the copies of title deeds and documents as well as
title clearance report of A.C.Damani and company and
then several meetings and deliberations have taken
place. It was specifically averred in the plaint that
the plaintiff was always ready and willing to pay the
balance amount of Rs.27.84 crores as stipulated in
memorandum of understanding dated 30.3.2018, but
despite memorandum of understanding, the defendant
has cleverly sidelined from the contract and then
through RTGS, unilaterally, without communicating
denial, returned the amount. It has specifically been
averred in paragraph 9 that on 30.3.2018, at around
10.39.54 a.m. IST, one more email was received from
Legal Department of defendant No.1 company stating
that final drafts of MOU and ATS are attached and
immediately within few minutes, on that very day, at
10.51.25 a.m. IST, the Legal Department also sent the
land measurement summary along with the payment
schedule which demonstrates conclusively that now the
document is to be executed as a part of formality. It
is also specifically asserted on oath in paragraph
No.9.4 that all essential ingredients of a valid
acceptance by defendant No.1 have clearly suggested
vigil and awareness of various terms and conditions Page 33 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

of MOU and ATS and, therefore, a specific stand is
taken to get the relief that even in the absence of
signed agreement of MOU and acceptance, inference of
contract can be drawn from the conduct and exchange
of series of documents and correspondences. It has
further been mentioned that the plaintiff sent an
email on 31.3.2018 at about 11.03.44 a.m. IST stating
the approval of MOUs and ATS and has shown specific
readiness and willingness and then surprisingly, the
defendant backed out from the deed by merely sending
email at about 5.24 p.m. on 31.3.2018 and returned
the amount of Rs.2.16 crores through RTGS by treating
it as a short term finance, though there was a
specific assertion that amount of Rs.2.16 crores was
a part of consideration for the land of Ambalal
Sarabhai Enterprise Ltd. and Haryana Containers Ltd.
It has further been specifically averred that the
defendant company has passed a resolution on
26.3.2018 but even after that, exchange of draft of
MOU and ATS took place which suggests a fabricated
and concoction on the part of the defendant and by
alleging that the defendant has disowned the
concluded contract and hence, relief prayed for
deserves to be granted. There are few other
circumstances narrated by way of specific assertion
but in substance, this stand is taken in the plaint. 19. Now to substantiate this, series of documents
have been produced on record and since the same are
in bulk, only most relevant documents at this stage
are to be referred to. C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER 20. In that context, the most material circumstance
which is reflecting from WhatsApp communication is
rather suggesting that till 30.3.2018, the plaintiff
was kept under an impression that they are about to
execute the document. A perusal of few WhatsApp
exchanges would reveal the intent and conduct of
parties to the proceedings and as such, the same are
being reproduced hereinafter: 21. It appears from the aforesaid exchange of
communication more particularly relevant documents
right from 26.3.2018 at 10.27 p.m. that some rough
weather was being reflected between the plaintiff and
the defendant and subsequently, MOUs/ATS have Page 46 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

continued to be sent even through Kartikeya Sarabhai.
There appears to be a clear indication to Kartikeya
Sarabhai by Nimish Vasa about the admitted act which
may result into serious consequences but then there
is also a clear reference in a talk dated 30.3.2018
at about 5.52 p.m. specifically conveying that Ketan
i.e. the plaintiff has shown readiness to pay even
the income tax dues and the defendant was not left
with any excuse thereafter. The next material
circumstance reflecting from WhatsApp dated 30.3.2018
at 7.12 p.m. is that it was conveyed to the plaintiff
to remain present at 10 a.m. at Baroda but was asking
where. Thereafter, one more material circumstance
is getting reflecting from WhatsApp dated 30.3.2018
at 7.18 p.m. Though this talk is suggesting an
indirect indication but then there was no other
reason why the last MOU/ATS is sent. Even
confirmation about the terms was also indicated which
is reflecting from Entry dated 30.3.2018 at 9.32
p.m. and then there is a reference that decision
finally went the way it did but this itself is
clearly suggesting that till previous evening, the
working out was taking place. So, these exchanges are
clearly reflecting that after accepting an amount of
Rs.2.16 crores and utilising the same for several
months, it seems that ultimately the defendant
surreptitiously backed out. 22. An attempt is made by the defendant to state
that this amount of Rs.2.16 crores was an amount
taken as a personal loan and not by way of Page 47 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

consideration in part towards the transaction. Now
for that purpose, if this is to be examined prima
facie with page 115, a chart which is attached, it is
reflecting an overall figure including Rs.2.16
crores. This chart is indicating that overall
figures tallied with the main consideration as on
30.3.2018 which is reflecting a left out amount of
Rs.27.84 crores. Now if these figures are to be
tallied with the figures which are mentioned in the
final draft of MOU, they appear to be matching with
the amount shown in the chart on page 116. If the
last column on page 116 is to be compared with the
last modified MOU precisely reflecting on page 125 in
2nd paragraph, it would suggest that there is a clear
inference about Rs.2.16 crores, may be by way of part
sale consideration towards the transaction and,
therefore, the story put up of personal finance is
not lending support from the material on record. 23. On the contrary, the final draft which has been
submitted including agreement to sale reflecting on
page 117 appears to have been sent on 30.3.2018 at
10.39.54 a.m. IST. Now if this is to be compared with
a WhatsApp entry dated 30.3.2018 and the entries
thereafter, it would suggest that there appears to be
unilateral withdrawal without communication to the
plaintiff. Therefore, keeping the plaintiff in dark
till last moment clearly reflects a conduct which
requires to be examined at an appropriate stage of
the suit. This is more particularly in view of the
fact that in a general meeting of the company, it is Page 48 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

being conveyed that decision is taken and some
resolution is passed and even after that, exchange of
documents did take place. So, from this conduct, it
can be easily inferred that there was a clear
deviation from the terms which till last moment were
in existence. 24. In the context of aforesaid circumstances, a
further email reflecting on page 162 dated 31.3.2018
at 7.24.47 p.m. is a prompt reaction on the part of
the plaintiff indicating and protesting against
unilateral cancellation and then return of amount of
Rs.2.16 crores is indicated to have been received as
a short­term finance which is coming up for the first
time. Now as against that, there was a balance
certificate issued by Oriental Bank of Commerce
clearing suggesting that as on 31.3.2018, a credit
balance of Rs.29,66,11,326/­ was maintained by the
plaintiff which is a left out consideration to be
payable pursuant to the transaction. This certificate
is also part of the record. 25. Additionally, the agreement to sale which is
said to have taken place on 31.3.2018 is also
reflecting that out of 2777 sq.mtrs. of land from
Survey No.383/1, land admeasuring 2500 sq.mtrs. in
Wadi presently vests with Ambalal Sarabhai Enterprise
Ltd. and then the document is said to have been
executed. Then there is reference to a resolution and
a meeting of Board of Directors, whether it is valid
or not is not to be decided at this stage. But it Page 49 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

appears that the said board meeting is convened on
26.3.2018 in which approval was given regarding
document with M/s Neptune Infraspace Pvt. Ltd. with
respect to three survey numbers consisting about
total land admeasuring 13,000 sq.feet but then there
is no explanation coming forthwith as to why even
after this resolution and the decision the MOU, the
land measurement and the agreement to sale have been
continued to be sent by Legal Department of the
defendant. From the contents of written statement,
there is a flat denial about receipt of an amount of
Rs.2.16 crores by way of sale consideration and
further, there is a flat denial about receiving any
confirmation about proposed transaction from the
plaintiff and then it was conveyed in paragraph 24
that in that situation, on 30.3.2018 in the
afternoon, the plaintiff company was personally
informed about cancellation of all proposed drafts.
It is also reflecting that Board of Directors put
their foot down after appreciating everything and
decided not to travel in the direction of proposed
MOU with the plaintiff. But then resolution of the
Board of Directors was of previous date and
subsequently, the drafts of MOU as well as ATS
continued to be sent. A clear stand is taken that the
plaintiff was incapable of clearing income tax
liability of defendant No.1 but then this is clearly
in contrast with the balance certificate which has
been issued by Oriental Bank of Commerce. This stand
of the defendant is to be examined from the documents
which are attached in the paper book compilation Page 50 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

precisely page 474/U dated 3.4.2018 wherein M/s
Neptune Infraspace Pvt. Ltd. has paid the amount
towards the assessment of income tax on behalf of
the defendant. All these payments are of 30.3.2018
totaling to around Rs.11,78,10,000/­. By that time,
there was already a balance available with the
plaintiff to meet with even much more amount than
what has been paid by M/s Neptune Infraspace Pvt.
Ltd. Therefore, prima facie stand taken by the
defendant deserves to be examined at length at the
time of trial. Prima facie maintaining balance is in
direction of readiness and willingness which will be
examined during trial. These documents and the
payment schedule are indicating that all payments
have been made on 30.3.2018 wherein during that
period, the plaintiff was already having a balance
available on hand and, therefore, prima facie
inability of the plaintiff as contended by the
defendant is not possible to be accepted. Further,
there is a conduct on the part of the defendant on
one hand to pass a resolution to proceed ahead with
M/s Neptune and then there is no other corresponding
explanation available on record as to for what reason
thereafter the drafts of MOUs and ATS were exchanged
so much so that land measurement has also been
communicated. This conduct appears to be questionable
at this stage which requires detailed adjudication.
Further, if the figures contained in the last
exchange of MOU and ATS are to be tallied and
compared with the proposed payment schedule and the
entries contained therein, it prima facie matches the Page 51 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

version and the consideration of transaction and
additionally, the plaintiff was very much armed with
a total consideration amount on hand and as such,
prima facie, readiness and willingness is also not in
question reflecting at this stage. 26. In the context of the aforesaid circumstances,
if the version of WhatsApp to be examined as compared
with other documentary material attached with the
paper book, it would suggest that till last moment,
undisputedly, the plaintiff was kept under an
impression that their terms are to be agreed and
formality of execution is awaiting. A self­
contradictory stand appears to have been taken on one
hand that in the meeting of Board of Directors, a
decision is taken to proceed ahead with plaintiff
whereas undisputedly talks are emerging and
reflecting that till previous evening, they continued
to deliberate. Now in the aforesaid situation, which
is prevailing, whether this appears to be an oral
contract or a concluded contract or any remote right
is emerging in favour of the plaintiff to seek an
equitable relief are the questions to be examined at
the stage of trial, in the considered opinion of this
Court. Therefore, it is not an open and shut case
where the moment the agreement to sale took place and
some amount is accepted from other party, the
contract which was in process of getting materialized
would evaporate. At least at this stage, with no
certainty, a clear conclusion is possible to be
arrived at. It is further reflecting from record and Page 52 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

the conduct of the defendant that a projection is
given that transaction is taking place with a view to
mitigate the total amount of income tax but the same
appears to be not the conclusion at this stage. The
measurement which is reflecting in the agreement to
sale which has taken place with M/s Neptune is also a
matter of concern and examination and further, the
amount of Rs.2.16 crores is paid by way of token
payment towards transaction or not is also a matter
of trial, since the said amount was undisputedly
accepted in January, 2018 and then to convey later on
that it was a personal finance, the plaintiff is
definitely entitled to get clear answer which can be
given at the time of trial. This is more so in view
of the fact that the stand and the conduct of the
defendant is questionable since on 31.3.2018 it was
clearly indicated that it was decided to sign the
document on the day previous to 31.3.2018, since in
the late evening the ATS/MOU was received by the
plaintiff with few modification and in that it has
been mentioned clearly by the plaintiff that fund is
also arranged which is substantiated by the balance
certificate of the bank. 27. These are the circumstances which are not
possible to be ignored by the Court at this stage of
the proceedings where the subject matter of the suit
is directed to be preserved by the court below.
Furthermore, it is not a concluded registered sale
transaction and it is merely an agreement to sale
which would not finally confer a legal right. Had it Page 53 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

been a registered sale transaction, it might have
inferred a crystallized right. But here is the case
in which the defendant is dealing with both
simultaneously and at convenient point of time backed
out unilaterally and, therefore, it appears that
amount of Rs.2.16 crores is paid by the plaintiff
first in point of time than what is being collected
from Neptune by subsequently executing agreement to
sale. Hence, in the considered opinion of this Court,
the competent court is required to be left open for
taking appropriate decision finally as to whether the
relief prayed for in the suit deserves to be granted
or not and till that decision making process, the
subject matter of the suit deserves to be protected.
At this stage, in view of aforesaid circumstances,
whether a relief can be granted only if there must be
a signed agreement or not is not a question debatable
to be tried during the course of adjudication. In
view of the decisions which have been cited by the
respective sides, this question is also to be tried
and cannot be finally decided at this stage. In that
view of the matter, whether order appealed is just
and proper or not is now to be examined by this Court
in the context of aforesaid situation. 28. In the light of aforesaid situation which is
prevailing, it clearly transpires that serious
debatable issues have arisen and raised in the
present proceedings which require a proper
adjudication during the course of trial. These
triable issues in view of settled position of law Page 54 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

cannot be adjudged at this stage and the Court is not
expected to conduct a mini trial at the interim
stage. The manner in which the negotiation went on
even till the previous evening to the agreement to
sell which came to be registered with defendant No.2,
is an indication that on certain terms the parties
have reached over the period of time to a particular
stage where an inclination was shown to enter into a
transaction. The fact that documents on record
indicate that proper balance of the total
consideration was available in the bank as certified
by the bank officials and WhatsApp interactions
suggest that the defendant was kept under a lame hope
to arrive at an agreed contract. Prima facie, the
learned counsel appearing for the respondent,
Mr.Devan Parikh, has successfully match the amount of
Rs.2.16 crores which has been paid to the appellant
in January,2018, is in response to the transaction in
question. 29. It has further been reflecting from the record
that triable issues are very much involved which
deserve proper adjudication at the time when the suit
to be conducted. The readiness and willingness is
also visible not only from the fact that an amount of
Rs.2.16 crores has been paid way back on 10.1.2018.
But even an amount of Rs.27.84 crores, a balance
amount, was kept ready to be paid. The manner in
which the Legal Department promptly went on reacting
to the final drafts of MOU and ATS, it suggests that
only a part of formality of execution of document was Page 55 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

to be effected. That was an impression given by the
Legal Department as it seems. If we see Para.9 it
would reflect that on 30.3.2018 at around 10.39.54
a.m. IST, one more email was received from the Legal
Department of defendant No.1 company indicating that
final drafts of MOU and ATS are attached and
immediately on that very day, within few minutes on
10.51.21 a.m. IST, the Legal Department also sent the
land measurement summary along with payment schedule
which has demonstrated an intention to enter into
transaction and then, the plaintiff sent an email on3
31.3.2018 at about 11.03.44 a.m. IST stating the
approval of MOU and ATS and has shown clearly a
readiness and willingness. But then surprisingly the
defendant backed out by merely sending an email at
5.24 p.m. on 31.3.2018 and unilaterally returned the
amount of Rs.2.16 crores through RTGS by projecting
as if the said amount was a short term finance,
though the same was specifically asserted as an
amount of part of sale consideration. This chronology
of events and the conduct of the defendant has
indicated at length in earlier paragraphs of the
present judgment, it requires that this conduct is
also to be examined at length. It is not a simple
case where the plaintiff has failed miserably in
indicating prima facie case and then, wanted an
injunction from the Court to intercept the further
steps of defendant. The conduct on the part of
defendant certainly a matter of trial. So, while
considering the equitable principle in mind, the
conduct of the defendant is also not possible to be Page 56 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

ignored. As a result of this, in such a situation
when case is made out of a trial, the subject matter
of the suit deserves to be protected, particularly
when the manner in which the transaction is taking
place and again, the registered agreement to sell has
taken place and not a final concluding transaction
with defendant No.2. This prima facie look of the
circumstance necessitates the Court to preserve the
subject matter even with a view to avoid multiplicity
of proceedings and further alienation as has been
apprehended by the plaintiff. 30. Additionally, the Court is of the opinion that
the aforesaid discussion and the respective
submissions made at length, are made as if the Court
is to conduct a mini trial at this stage and as such,
without much opining anything on rival contentions in
detail and concluding which may influence the trial,
the Court desists from commenting anything further,
but is of the opinion that at least the case is made
out where the property in question is required to be
preserved during the course of trial. 31. It is settled position of law that normally,
during the litigating process when a case is made
out, the status­quo deserves to be granted and simply
because the transaction is of a high value or simply
because the legal proceedings taking some more time,
would not be a circumstance to lift the order of
status­quo, because ultimately the same would lead to
a multiplicity of proceedings and would seriously Page 57 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

prejudice the ultimate outcome if taking place in
favour of the plaintiff. As a result of this, to save
this situation, the Court is of the opinion that the
order in question of maintaining status­quo does not
call for any interference and at the best, the suit
will have to be expedited considering the peculiarity
of circumstances reflecting on record. 32. In light of aforesaid situation, keeping in view
the well propounded proposition of law that at an
interim stage, no mini trial to be conducted as if
the Court is finally examining the case. Such
proposition of law is propounded in a decision of the
Apex Court in case of Anand Prasad Agarwalla v.
Tarkeshwar Prasad & Ors., reported in (2001) 5 SCC 568. 33. Further, the Court is also of the opinion that
prima facie case and prima facie title cannot be
confused because prima facie will have to be examined
at length during the course of adjudication of the
proceedings and here are the circumstances which are
discussed above are not the circumstances which can
be ignored just to vacate the order of status­quo.
All these issues which have been raised are
significant issues depending upon the record and as
such, the trial court must be given an adequate
opportunity to examine it at length. 34. Now in the light of aforesaid circumstances, the
decisions which have been cited by the respective Page 58 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

counsel if to be looked into, what is emerging from
the record is that substantially the learned counsel
appearing for the respective appellants have pointed
out the decisions which are majority after the full­
fledged trial is over, wherein the Court had an
advantage of going through and see the evidence on
record. Whereas here the suit is at elementary
stage; yet the adjudication is to take place and,
therefore, keeping in view the proposition of law
that slight change in the fact or one additional fact
will make a world of difference in applying the
precedent, the Court is dealing with the decisions as
to whether the same to be applied as a straitjacket
formula or not. This is in view of the fact that
earlier discussion which has been noted down from the
record is clearly giving an impression that case is
made out of a trial at length to be conducted. 35. The first judgment which has been pointed out by
Mr.Mihir Thakore, learned Senior Counsel appearing
for one of the appellants in cognate Appeal from
Order is a decision in case of Bharat Petroleum
Corporation Ltd. v. Great Eastern Shipping Co. Ltd. ,
reported in (2008) 1 SCC 503, wherein by relying upon
the observations made in Para.19, a contention is
tried to be raised about the principle of sub
silentio. In this particular case, the Apex Court
was dealing with the proceedings wherein the High
Court Judicature at Bombay has set aside the arbitral
award upon proper adjudication and in the background
of that fact, this principle is discussed which stage Page 59 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

has yet not been reached in the present proceedings,
as it would always be available for the appellant to
press into service this principle when the suit is to
be dealt with finally by the court. 36. Yet another decision which has been pressed into
service is a decision of Court of Appeal, decided on
17.4.1986, in which what can be said to be a binding
contract concluded between the parties and by citing
this, learned Senior Counsel has indicated that
herein in the present case on hand, the parties have
not yet signed the contract. Therefore, it could not
have a binding effect. But to derive at that stage if
we look to the order at length, it relates to a
challenge to a final decision and, therefore, in the
present situation when there is a stiff debate on
both the sides about the continuous negotiations and
till previous evening, whether it amounts to a
binding contract or not is matter of examination and
can be proved and dealt with by leading the evidence
and, therefore, to jump to a conclusion that simply
because the signature is missing, binding effect is
not emerging is a conclusion can be said to be
prejudged which the Court would not like to venture
at this stage of the proceedings, in view of the
fact that the effect of oral contract is also
agitated in the present proceedings and, therefore,
if we see the nature of obligation arising out of
which and to see the performance as to whether the
same was rightly inferred or not, is a matter of
adjudication and here the plaintiff appears to have Page 60 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

paid an amount of Rs.2.16 crores in the month of
January,2018; kept ready the balance amount as per
the bank's certificate and the previous conduct of
the defendant No.1 Legal Department is also a matter
of examination. Therefore, it is not possible for
this Court to straightway apply the principle which
has been brought to the notice of the Court. Of­
course, the said principles are definitely vital when
the suit at length to be adjudicated. Hence, since a
question to be tried during the trial, the Court
would like to desist from commenting anything in
clear terms and would like to give an opportunity to
both the sides to lead the evidence and prove
accordingly. 37. Another judgment of the Apex Court in case of K.S.Vidyanadam & Ors. v. Vairavan , reported in (1997)
3 SCC 1 is essentially a judgment pressed into
service for the purpose of canvassing a contention
that delay is disentitling the plaintiff from
equitable jurisdiction and by relying upon Para.11
onwards, it has been submitted that here is a case in
which through RTGS, the amount is returned and for
approximately 7 months, the plaintiff waited, but
this brief period of 7 months is not such in a
situation like this to oust the plaintiff from
equitable relief, particularly when the reasonable
time is to be determined according to this very
judgment on the basis of surrounding circumstances
including express terms of the contract and the
nature of property. C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

37.1 From the foregoing discussion as it has been
indicated that the conduct till previous day of
entering into registered agreement to sell is a
conduct which requires examination at length, this
brief period of delay is not possible to be construed
as fatal which may disentitle any relief of
injunction in favour of the plaintiff and as such,
the judgment which has been pressed into service is
not possible to be mechanically applied. 38. The other judgments which are pressed into
service are also again on the issue whether
correspondence which took place suggests that
acceptance was absolute or not where two minds were
ad idem or not with respect to the property to be
sold. But as said earlier the Court reiterates that
such issues are to be examined by allowing the
parties to lead the evidence. 39. Yet another judgment which has been pressed into
service is a decision of the Apex Court in case of Rohit A. Kapadia & Anr. v. Perviz J. Modi , reported
in 2016 SCC Online Bom. 6784. But then if we look at the said judgment , the said judgment was dealing with
the appeal against the suit which was dismissed after
full­fledged trial, where the court had an advantage
of looking at the effect of evidence which has been
led and hence, as said earlier, this is not the case
where the Court at this stage would like to clearly
opine either the effect of binding nature of the Page 62 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

negotiation or the effect of readiness and
willingness or the effect of subsequent registered
agreement to sell which came to be entered into
despite previous day interaction with the original
plaintiffs. All these issues are left it open for
trial to the court concerned. Hence, the Court would
not like to prejudge these intricacies which are
tried to be projected on the present case on hand. 40. Simultaneously, the judgments which have been
pointed out by learned counsel appearing for the
respondents, who are the original plaintiffs, if to
be looked into, some of the decisions are the
decisions which have been delivered at interim relief
stage. Hence, the Court would like to deal with in
the following manner. 41. The first judgment which has been pressed into
service is a decision of the Division Bench of this
Court in case of Ibrahim Shah Mohmad & Ors. v. Noor
Ahmed Noor Mohamed & Ors. , reported in 1983 GLH 538,
wherein the Division Bench while dealing with the
suit, of­course at a final stage, has observed while
dealing with Civil Application for interim relief.
The observations contained therein have got some
bearing when the issue of interim relief is being
dealt with by this Court, hence, reproduced
hereinafter : 43. Yet another submission of Mr.Devan Parikh,
learned Senior Advocate with the support of
commentary on the Law of Contract, 13th Edition by
Edwin Peel, who observed upon analysis of several
decisions on the issue of 'acceptance' and 'objective
test' which is to be applied in the context of
continuous negotiation since here it is relevant, the
Court would like to refer the same, of­course not
binding but has an assisting measure, the learned
Senior Advocate has pressed into service. Some
paragraphs need to be quoted hereinafter : 44. Mr.Devan Parikh, learned Senior Advocate, has
bunch of decisions, but then the Court was requested
to deal with only relevant decisions and as such,
some relevant decisions which are pressed into
service, have been considered by the Court for the
purpose of arriving a final decision in the present
case. 45. One of the judgments out of the bunch which is
pressed into service is a decision of the Apex Court
in case of Aloka Bose v. Parmatma Devi & Ors. ,
reported in (2009) 2 SCC 582. The question arose in the said decision as to in the event of absence of
signature of the purchaser, whether agreement can be
said to be valid, complete or not and whether same
can be enforced or not. Now, in this context some
observations which are made in Para.16, 17 and 18 are
the observations which are relevant to come to a
conclusion that even an oral agreement to sell is
also valid and here is a case where one of the Page 67 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

contentions was about the oral agreement to be
inferred. Now for that purpose, the observations have
been relied upon. But since the said issue is
relatable to the trial and adjudication of the suit,
the Court would refrain itself from commenting
anything on that and, therefore, not quoting the
observations made by the Apex Court. Of­course, the
said case was arising out of full­fledged trial. 46. One decision which is empathetically submitted
by Mr.Devan Parikh, learned Senior Counsel, is a
decision of the Apex Court in case of Maharwal
Khewaji Trust (Regd.) v. Baldev Dass , reported in
(2004) 8 SCC 488 which is again at an interim stage.
The observations which have been made are very
relevant in the factual matrix of the present case.
Therefore, Para.10 is quoted hereinafter: 47. Similarly, yet another decision of the Apex
Court in case of Kalavakurti Venkata Subbaiah v. Bala
Gurappagari Guruvi Reddy , reported in (1999) 7 SCC
114 is pressed into service, in which a comprehensive
suit for specific performance of the agreement came
to be filed and what has been observed by the Apex
Court is that the plaintiff was alternatively
entitled to base his claim for specific performance
on the pleaded oral agreement to sell and inasmuch as
there are further reliefs sought for, it was a
comprehensive suit and, therefore, if the Court
satisfies then relief of performance can be granted.
So, in substance, there are so many judgments pressed
into service by learned counsel for the original
plaintiffs in the same manner in which the learned
counsel for the appellants have projected, but the
peculiar background of facts of present case would
independently require to be examined by the trial Page 69 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

court and, therefore, without giving much emphasis on
other intricacies which are projected as stated
above, the Court would like to opine that here is a
case in which full­fledged trial deserves.
Resultantly, the order of status­quo does not call
for any interference. 48. The relevant decisions which have been pointed
out to this Court and emphasized leading to a
conclusion that when the case is made out of a trial,
the status­quo will have to be maintained which would
meet the ends of justice and maintain the equitable
balance between both the sides. Each case is
depending upon its own merit and the factual
background and as such, without much dwelling upon
the minute details of decisions and opining anything
in clear terms, the Court would like to now examine
the scope of appellate jurisdiction. 49. Time and again, it has been observed that no
doubt, the appellate court had adequate power to
reverse the finding arrived at by the trial court.
But then the same will have to be in a peculiar
situation where the findings are apparently perverse
or there may be a manifest error or patently
illegality. In such kind of situation, normally the
appellate court should reverse the order. But as said
earlier, the background of this fact of a peculiar
nature, would lead to a conclusion that during the
pendency of the suit proceedings, the status­quo what
has been ordered by the court below does not require Page 70 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019 C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER

to be altered. 50. The Apex Court as well as this Court has well
defined the aspect as to the scope of appeal. Few
decisions on the said issue since the Court has
considered, the relevant observations are reproduced
hereinafter: [3] In the case of Matrix Telecom Pvt. Ltd. versus
Matrix Cellular Services Pvt. Ltd. reported in 2011
(3) GLR 1951, the relevant observations contained in
paragraphs 6 and 6.1 are reproduced hereinafter: 51. However, in a situation like this, the main suit
proceedings can be dealt with expeditiously and for
that purpose, liberty is kept open for the appellant
to make an appropriate request to the concerned court
to expedite the hearing of the suit proceedings as
early as possible and as and when such approach is
made by parties to the proceedings, the learned Judge
is requested to deal with and expedite the suit
proceedings and shall decide the same without being
influenced by the observations made in the impugned
order and from the present order which are tentative
in nature and at an interim stage and as such, the
suit may be dealt with finally on the basis of
further material and the evidence which may be led by
the parties to the proceedings. 52. With these observations, the present Appeal from
Orders stand dismissed, with no order as to costs.
Notice is discharged. C/AO/72/2019 CAV ORDER 53. In view of the order passed in main Appeal from
Orders, connected civil applications also stand
disposed of accordingly. (A.J.SHASTRI,J.)

 FURTHER ORDER

 After the order is pronounced, learned counsel
appearing for the appellant has requested to suspend
the present order for a reasonable period so as to
enable the appellant to carry the matter further to
the higher forum. Since the request having not been strongly
objected and in view of the fact that throughout the
proceedings, the stay was operative, the operation
of the present order shall not be effected for a
period 4 weeks from today. (A.J.SHASTRI,J.)
(vipul/radhan) Page 74 of 74 Downloaded on : Sat Aug 31 03:31:10 IST 2019