Per Mr. Rajendra Singh, Member: This Appeal has been filed by the appellant under Section 15 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 against the judgment and order dated 28.5.2016 passed by Ld. District Forum, Gautambudh Nagar in Complaint case no.175 of 2013, Anuj Kumar vs. SBI Cards & Payment Service Pvt. Ltd. The brief facts of the appear are that, that the respondent is a valuable customer of SBI Cards and he holds a SBI Gold (credit card) and has performed transactions. There was no change in 3D secure password and mobile number prior to the disputed transaction and on 8.2.2013, the complainant himself created 3 D secure password during his first transaction of Rs.150.00 from "recharge its now" and same password has been used for other two transactions. If any transaction is done by the customer using his card and if any fraud is done, it does not amount to deficiency in service. On 27.3.2013, (2) some SMS was received by the respondent that he has purchased for amount of Rs.1,12,575.61  in foreign and bill has been paid in Euro. The complainant objected on this transaction and it has been investigated and found it genuine. The card in issue is protected through multi layer of security system as per the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India. The CVV number is needed in each and every transaction. The ld. District Forum has awarded the complaint against the legal principles. The judgment is beyond evidence and it should be set aside. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties and  perused the pleadings and evidence available on record. The respondent raised preliminary objection of delay. According to him there is inordinate delay in filing the appeal, hence, this appeal is liable to be dismissed. We have perused the judgment of the ld. District Forum dated 28.5.2016. The copy has been issued on 24.8.2016. The parties were present before the ld. District Forum. Now, the question arises that when the judgment has been pronounced on 28.5.2016 then why did the appellant not take the certified copy of the judgment within time. He received the copy after two months of the judgment. The appeal has been filed on 8.9.2016. It is not on the sweet will of the party that he may apply for getting certified copy of the judgment after months of judgment and thereafter, raise claim for condonation of delay. When the parties were present before the ld. District Forum, the limitation will be counted from the date of the judgment. Therefore, it is clear that there is delay in filing of this appeal and the appellant did not move any application for condonation of delay. The Consumer Protection Act 1986 was enacted to provide for better protection of the interests of consumers and for that purpose to make provision for the establishment of Consumers Councils and other authorities for the settlement of consumers' disputes and for matters connected therewith (Preamble). The Act Inter alia, seeks to promote and protect the rights of consumers such as - right to be protected against marketing of goods which are hazardous to life and property; right to be informed about the quality, quantity, potency, purity, standard and price of goods to protect the consumer against unfair trade practices; right to be assured, wherever possible, access to variety of goods at competitive prices; right to be heard and to assured that customers' interests will receive due consideration at appropriate forums. Right to seek redressal against unfair practices or unscrupulous exploitation of consumers; and

 

     (6)    Right to consumer education

 

The objects are sought to be promoted and protected by the Consumer Protection Councils to be established at the Central and State levels. The Act applies to all goods and services, except if otherwise provided by the Central Government by Notification. To provide speedy and simple redressal of consumer disputes, a quasi judicial machinery is set up at the District, State and Central levels. The three tier system of quasi judicial bodies will observe the principle of natural (4) justice and are empowered to give relief of a specific nature and to award, wherever appropriate, compensation to  consumers. Penalties for non-compliance of the orders given by the quasi judicial bodies have also been provided. Thus the Consumer Protection Act is to serve the interests of the consumers. Consumer education and redressal of consumers' grievances are the two aspects of the Act. It makes good the loss a consumer suffers and increases the feeling of responsibility of the manufacturer, trader, supplier or businessman. The provisions of the Act have to be construed in favor of the consumer to achieve the purpose of enactment as it is social benefit oriented legislation. The primary duty of the Court while construing the provisions of such an Act is to adopt a constructive approach subject to that it should not do violence to the language of the provisions and not contrary to attempted objective of the enactment. Extent of Consumer Protection: Consumers Protection Act , thus enshrines the rights of a consumer to be informed about the quality, quantity, potency, price etc., of the goods to be protected against unfair trade practices, to seek inexpensive and expeditious redressal of grievances before the Consumer Forums. Consumer Protection Act is a benevolent piece of legislation to protect a large body of consumers from exploitation. We have to see the provisions regarding filing of complaint and appeal. Section 24 (A) of the act says

 

 ["24-A. Limitation period- (1) The District Forum, the State Commission or the National Commission shall not admit a complaint unless it is filed within two years from the date on which the cause of action has arisen. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), a complaint may be entertained after the period specified in sub-section (1), if the complainant satisfies the District Forum, the State Commission or the National Commission, as the case may be, that he had sufficient cause for not filing the complaint within such period; Provided that no such complaint shall be entertained unless the National Commission, the State Commission or the District Forum, as the case may be, records its reasons for condoning such delay]

 

 

 

From perusal of the aforesaid section, it transpires that the period of limitation is two years from the date on which the cause of action arose. Regarding filing of appeal section 15 of the Consumer Protection Act says

 

        "15. Appeal -Any person aggrieved by an order made by the District Forum may prefer an appeal against such order to the State Commission within a period of thirty 

 

         days from the date of the order, in such form and manner as may be prescribed: Considering the totality of the circumstances and view of the provisions contained under Section 24(A) of the C.P. Act and the ruling laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in State Bank of India vs. M/s B.S. Agricultural (I), we are of the considered view that the complaint is barred by limitation and is liable to be dismissed. Hence, it is dismissed at the admission stage as barred by limitation. In Anshul Agarwal Vs. New Okhla Industrial Development Authority, IV (2011) CPJ 62 (SC), it was observed by the Hon'ble Apex Court that "it is also apposite to observe that while deciding an application filed in such cases for condonation of delay, the Court has to keep in mind that special period of limitation has been  prescribed in the Consumer Protection Act for filing appeals and revisions in consumer matter and the objection of expeditious adjudication of consumer disputes will get defeated if this court was to entertain highly belated petition against the orders of Consumer Fora." We have also to peruse whether time is the sense of Consumer Protection Act . The Constitutional Bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court has given its judgment on  04.03.2020 which is quoted here) (8) A Constitutional Bench (5 JJ) of the Hon'ble Supreme Court  In the Case of New India Assurance Complainant Vs. Hilli Multipurpose Cold Storage Private Limited, Civil  Appeal no,10941 -10942 of 2013 along with other many related Civil Appeals( judgment 04.03.2020 ) held ; The Hon'ble Supreme Court in para 41 of the judgment has held: The Hon'ble Supreme Court in para 40 of the judgment has held: Thus, it is clear that no explanation of the delay given by the appellant  so, the present appeal is liable to dismissed as time barred. ORDER

 

         The appeal is dismissed as time barred. The stenographer is requested to upload this order on the Website of this Commission today itself. Certified copy of this judgment be provided to the parties as per rules.