Hon'ble Mr. Justice T.S.Thakur, Hon'ble Mr.

 Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel and Hon'ble Ms. Justice

 R.Banumathi pronounced their judgments separately. The writ petition is allowed in terms of the Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by judgments pronounced by Hon'ble Mr. Justice Shashi Sareen Date: 2014.12.17 11:02:37 ALMT Reason: T.S.Thakur and Hon'ble Mr. Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel

 and the writ petition is dismissed in terms of the

 judgment pronounced by Hon'ble Ms. Justice 2 R.Banumathi

 In view of the majority opinion, the writ

 petition is allowed in terms of the signed

 reportable judgments pronounced separately. (Three separate signed reportable judgments are placed on
the file) 3 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA

 CRIMINAL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION

 WRIT PETITION (CRL.)NO.240 OF 2011

MITHILESH KUMAR SINGH ….Petitioner

 Versus

STATE OF RAJASTHAN ….Respondent

 J U D G M E N T

T.S. THAKUR, J. 1. I have had the advantage of going through the order proposed

by my noble sister Banumathi J. I regret to say that I have not

been able to persuade myself to agree to the dismissal of the writ

petition which in my opinion raises sensitive issues touching not

only the fairness of investigation in a case involving death of a

young college student in suspicious circumstances but also whether

the sordid episode was a result of ragging of the deceased by her

senior colleagues which the college authorities failed to prevent

despite being informed about the same. Given the circumstances

pointed out by the petitioner it may be premature for this Court

to hold that the investigation conducted by the local police was

fair or that the deceased jumped from the four storeyed college

hostel to commit suicide as she was carrying an unwanted

pregnancy. The petitioner who is the unfortunate father of the

deceased has attempted to point out certain deficiencies and 4 contradictions in the findings of the investigating agency which

in my opinion need to be investigated in a dispassionate attempt

to discover the truth, by an outside agency like the CBI. 2. The facts in the backdrop have been stated by my erudite

sister in the order proposed by her. It will, therefore, serve no

purpose to repeat them over again. That the deceased and her

sister were admitted to the college as freshers is not in dispute.

That she sustained injuries because of a fall from the fourth

floor of the college hostel where she was staying with her sister

is also not in dispute. That she was moved first to Dulet hospital

and later to Sawai Man Singh hospital is also a fact not in

dispute. That three days after her fall from the building she

passed away is also admitted. What called for a fair and proper

investigation was whether she fell because of ragging by the

seniors as alleged by the petitioner or she jumped to commit

suicide. The case of the respondents which includes the state of

Rajasthan, the police and the college where she was studying,

appears to be that she committed suicide because of an unwanted

pregnancy which she was carrying. Reliance in support of that

version is placed upon the medical record of the hospital, which

appears to suggest that (a) she was 14 weeks pregnant and, (b) the

pregnancy was aborted within 24 hours of her death. The record

also suggests that the petitioner had declined to consent to the

removal of the foetus from the womb of the deceased despite being

counselled about the consequences that would follow, should that

procedure be not followed. From the medical record it appears that 5 no removal of foetus was conducted by the doctors for want of

consent by the father of the deceased. What is alleged is that the

post mortem report does not establish in clear terms the presence

of a pregnancy or a 14 week old foetus. This according to the

petitioner belies the story that the deceased was pregnant which

could give her a possible reason to commit suicide. The

Petitioner’s case also is that a complaint about harassment by the

ragging had been made to the college authorities who did not act

in the matter. The petitioner alleges that the deceased had

remained unattended on the ground after the fall for about half an

hour because of the negligence of the college authorities. There

is also an allegation that although the deceased had sustained

serious injuries which eventually proved fatal no complaint or

report was lodged by the college authorities with the police. No

statement or dying declaration of the deceased was recorded during

the time she was in the hospital even though she was conscious and

oriented. The medical record has been, according to the

petitioner, fabricated as the college is owned and run by

influential people in the state of Rajasthan, apart from the fact

that a senior doctor in the hospital is related to one of the

respondents. There are also allegations of the college authorities

having pressurized the younger sister of the deceased not to

disclose the true facts to anyone for otherwise she will face

consequences. All told the petitioner is totally dissatisfied and

disillusioned with the investigation conducted by the State

Police. That is why he prays for a fair and proper investigation 6 into the episode to bring the truth to light so that justice is

done not only at the stage of investigation but even at the trial

which depends so much on the fairness of the investigation. 3. Importance of a fair and proper investigation cannot be

understated. In an adversarial system of administration of

justice, fairness of investigation is the very first requirement

for the fairness of a trial. A trial based on a partisan

motivated, one sided, or biased investigation can hardly be fair.

That is because while the trial itself may be procedurally

correct, the essence and the purpose thereof may be vitiated by an

unfair or ineffective investigation. This Court has in several

pronouncements, emphasized the importance of the fairness of the

investigation. Reference, in this regard, may be made to the

decision of this Court in Manu Sharma v. State (NCT of Delhi )

(2010) 6 SCC 1 where this Court while dealing with the fairness of

the investigation said: 4. In Nirmal Singh Kahlon v. State of Punjab (2009) 1 SCC 441, 7 this Court held that fairness of investigation is important not

only for the accused but even for the victim. This Court said: 5. To the same effect is the decision of this Court in Sasi

Thomas v. state and Ors. (2006) 12 SCC 421, where fairness of

investigation was recognized as an important facet of the rule of

law. The Court said: 6. Reference may also be made to Zahira Habibulla H. Sheikh and

Another v. State of Gujarat and Others (2004) 4 SCC 158, where the

Court held that justice can become a victim if the investigation

is not fair. The Court observed: 7. I may lastly refer to the decision of this Court in Babubhai

v. State of Gujaratand ors. (2010) 12 SCC, 254, where the Court

reiterated the legal position in the following words: 8. Such being the importance of fair and proper investigation,

this Court has in numerous cases arising out of several distinctly

different fact situations exercised its power of transferring

investigation from the State/jurisdictional police to the Central

Bureau of Investigation under Delhi Police Establishment Act.

There was mercifully no challenge to the power of this Court to

direct such a transfer and in my opinion rightly so as the

question whether this Court has the jurisdiction to direct

transfer stands authoritatively settled by the Constitution bench

of this Court in State of West Bengal & Ors. v. Committee for

protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal & Ors. (2010) 3 SCC 571. 9. Even so the availability of power and its exercise are two

distinct matters. This Court does not direct transfer of

investigation just for the asking nor is transfer directed only to

satisfy the ego or vindicate the prestige of a party interested in 10 such investigation. The decision whether transfer should or should

not be ordered rests on the Court’s satisfaction whether the facts

and circumstances of a given case demand such an order. No hard

and fast rule has been or can possibly be prescribed for universal

application to all cases. Each case will obviously depend upon its

own facts. What is important is that the Court while exercising

its jurisdiction to direct transfer remains sensitive to the

principle that transfers are not ordered just because a party

seeks to lead the investigator to a given conclusion. It is only

when there is a reasonable apprehension about justice becoming a

victim because of shabby or partisan investigation that the Court

may step in and exercise its extra ordinary powers. The

sensibility of the victims of the crime or their next of kin is

not wholly irrelevant in such situations. After all transfer of

investigation to an outside agency does not imply that the

transferee agency will necessarily much less falsely implicate

anyone in the commission of the crime. That is particularly so

when transfer is ordered to an outside agency perceived to be

independent of influences, pressures and pulls that are common

place when State police investigates matters of some significance.

The confidence of the party seeking transfer in the outside agency

in such cases itself rests on the independence of that agency from

such or similar other considerations. It follows that unless the

Court sees any design behind the prayer for transfer, the same

must be seen as an attempt only to ensure that the truth is

discovered. The hallmark of a transfer is the perceived 11 independence of the transferee more than any other consideration.

Discovery of truth is the ultimate purpose of any investigation

and who can do it better than an agency that is independent. 10. Having said that we need to remind ourselves that this Court

has, in several diverse situations, exercised the power of

transfer. In Inder Singh v. State of Punjab (1994) 6 SCC 275 this

Court transferred investigation to the CBI even when the

investigation was being monitored by senior officers of the State

Police. So also in R.S. Sodhi Advocate v. State of U.P. & Ors. 1994 (Supp) (1) SCC 143 investigation was transferred even when

the State police was doing the needful under the supervision of an

officer of the rank of an Inspector General of Police and the

State Government had appointed a one member Commission of Inquiry

headed by a sitting Judge of the High Court to enquire into the

matter. This Court held that however faithfully the police may

carry out the investigation the same will lack credibility since

the allegations against the police force involved in the encounter

resulting in the killing of several persons were very serious.

The transfer to the CBI, observed this Court, “would give

reassurance to all those concerned including the relatives of the

deceased that an independent agency was looking into the matter.” 11. Reference may also be made to the decision of this Court in State of Punjab v. CBI (2011) 9 SCC 182 where this Court upheld

the order transferring investigation from the State Police to the

CBI in connection with a sex scandal even when the High Court had 12 commended the investigation conducted by the DIG and his team of

 officers. In Subrata Chattoraj v. Union of India (2014) 8 SCC

 768, this Court directed transfer of the chit fund scam in the

 states of West Bengal and Orissa from the state police to the CBI

 keeping in view the involvement of several influential persons

 holding high positions of power and influence or political clout. 12. Suffice it to say that transfers have been ordered in varied

 situations but while doing so the test applied by the Court has

 always been whether a direction for transfer, was keeping in view

 the nature of allegations, necessary with a view to making the

 process of discovery of truth credible. What is important is that

 this Court has rarely if ever viewed at the threshold the prayer

 for transfer of investigation to CBI with suspicion. There is no

 reluctance on the part of the Court to grant relief to the victims

 or their families in cases, where intervention is called for, nor

 is it necessary for the petitioner seeking a transfer to make out

 a cast iron case of abuse or neglect on the part of the State

 police, before ordering a transfer. Transfer can be ordered once

 the Court is satisfied on the available material that such a

 course will promote the cause of justice, in a given case. 13. In the case at hand circumstances leading to the death of

 young college student girl have become the subject matter of

 investigation. The issue is sensitive not only because of loss of

 an invaluable human life but also because of the reasons which are

 sought to be attributed for the sordid affair. The circumstances 13 which the petitioner has referred to in the writ petition and the

written submissions as also the contentions that were urged before

us in the course of the hearing may or may not be conclusive in

their import but those circumstances need to be suitably looked

into by an independent investigating agency like the CBI lest an

incomplete, indifferent or ineffective investigation leads to

failure of justice. 14. In the result, I allow this petition and direct transfer of

investigation in FIR No.463 of 2011 registered in the Bagru Police

Station, Jaipur to the Central Bureau of Investigation. The

Director of CBI shall ensure that the investigation is assigned to

officers competent to handle the same and take such follow up

action as is permissible in accordance with law. I make it clear

that I have expressed no opinion as to the merits of the case or

the complicity of anyone associated with the incident directly or

indirectly. Observations made in this order shall be treated to

have been made only for the purposes of deciding whether or not an

order of transfer is justified. No Costs. ………………….……….…..…J.
 (T.S. Thakur)
New Delhi
December 11, 2014 14 REPORTABLE

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
 CRIMINAL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION

 WRIT PETITION (CRL.) No. 240 of 2011

MITHILESH KUMAR SINGH …PETITIONER

VERSUS

STATE OF RAJASTHAN …RESPONDENT

 J U D G M E N T

ADARSH KUMAR GOEL, J. 1. I have perused the orders proposed by my esteemed

brother Hon’ble T.S. Thakur, J. and my esteemed sister

Hon’ble R. Banumathi, J., taking differing views in the

matter of justification for the prayer of the petitioner

for transfer of investigation of F.I.R. No.463 of 2011,

registered at Police Station Bagru, Jaipur, Rajasthan from

Rajasthan Police to the Central Bureau of Investigation

(C.B.I.). I am inclined to agree with the operative part

of the order proposed by Hon’ble T.S. Thakur, J. 2. The matter relates to unfortunate death of a young

girl student

on 8thSeptember, 2011. A case was registered under Section

306 of the Indian Penal Code on the allegation that the

deceased, who was admitted to Engineering Course at Jaipur,

was harassed by the senior students of the Institute. She

was taken to fourth floor and made to see downwards even 15 though she was scared and felt dizziness. She fell down to

the ground and suffered injuries. She was not properly

attended and she died on account of injuries and

negligence. To cover up the truth and to save the

reputation of the college, false medical record was

prepared to show that she had fourteen weeks’ pregnancy on

account of which she committed suicide by jumping from the

fourth floor. According to the petitioner, the local

police did not conduct fair investigation and filed final

report wrongly declaring the case to be that of suicide.

Accordingly, the petitioner has approached this Court for a

direction to shift the investigation to C.B.I. so that

truth could be ascertained and justice done. The case of

the college authorities and the local police, on the other

hand, is that she jumped from the fourth floor and the

college authorities took all possible steps for her

treatment. Reliance has also been placed on medical report

to the effect that she had fourteen weeks’ pregnancy and on

account of that she wanted to end her life. As a result of

her fall, pregnancy was aborted but she did not agree to

the removal of fetus which led to septicaemia and her

death. 3. We have given anxious consideration to the issue. At

this stage, the only question is whether apprehension of

the petitioner that investigation by local police may not

be fair has some basis and whether his prayer for transfer 16 to C.B.I. ought to be accepted. 4. It is true that the prayer for transfer of

 investigation from State police to C.B.I. can be allowed

 only in rare and exceptional circumstances when fair

 investigation by State police does not inspire confidence

 on account of any external influence or otherwise as held

 in State of West Bengal and others vs. Committee for

 Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal and others1.

 There can be no cast iron parameters and whether an

 exceptional situation has arisen may be determined by the

 Court by taking an overview of the fact situation of a

 particular case. In the present case, we do not consider

 it necessary to blame the college authorities or the local

 police but we are also unable to reject the apprehension of

 the petitioner and his prayer for transfer of

 investigation. The death of a young girl student has taken

 place in mysterious circumstances. According to the

 petitioner, the statement of the girl was not recorded even

 though it could have been done and thus, truth has not come

 out. In these circumstances, without expressing any

 opinion on merits, it will be appropriate that the matter

 is investigated by the C.B.I. 5. Accordingly, this petition is allowed and

 investigation of F.I.R. No.463 of 2011, registered at

 Police Station Bagru, Jaipur, is transferred to the C.B.I. 1 (2010) 3 SCC 571 17 6. The petition stands disposed of accordingly. ……………………………………J.
 (ADARSH KUMAR GOEL)
NEW DELHI
DECEMBER 11, 2014 18 REPORTABLE

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
 CRIMINAL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION

 WRIT PETITION (CRL.) NO. 240 OF 2011

MITHILESH KUMAR SINGH ..Petitioner

 Versus

STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. ..Respondents

 J U D G M E N T

R. BANUMATHI, J. This writ petition has been filed by the petitioner

seeking writ of mandamus to initiate an independent investigation

by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the death of his

daughter S.S., a student of B. Tech 1st Year of Rajasthan College

of Engineering for Women, Jaipur, who succumbed to injuries which

she sustained by falling from the IV th floor railing of her

hostel room. 2. Briefly stated case of the petitioner is as follows:- The

petitioner is a resident of Bihar and is working at Visakhapatnam.

Petitioner’s two daughters, namely, S.S. and T.S., took admission

in B.Tech on 25.8.2011 in Rajasthan College of Engineering for

Women, Jaipur and were admitted in the college hostel. Petitioner

contends that on 2.9.2011 his two daughters were ragged by two

senior girls of 2nd year and the same was informed to him by his 19 daughter S.S. over phone. S.S. is also stated to have called up

her maternal aunt to inform her about the incident. To enquire

further, her aunt (Raj Kumari Devi) went to the hostel and met

Shalini, Chief Warden, who, in turn, assured her that the matter

would be looked into and steps would be taken. On 6.9.2011, S.S.

is said to have informed her younger sister T.S. that she was not

well and so she would not be attending classes and T.S. went to

college. On the same day at about 12.30 P.M., it is alleged that

two senior girls again caught S.S. for ragging by making her climb

on the railing of the fourth floor forcing her to look towards the

ground and while doing so, S.S. fell down and sustained injuries,

and she remained as such on the ground for about half an hour.

After someone noticed her, she was taken to “Dulet Hospital” where

she was given first aid treatment and she was referred to Sawai

Man Singh (SMS) Hospital, Jaipur. The petitioner contends that

his younger daughter T.S. was threatened by the college

authorities and warned not to disclose the fact of ragging or else

her career would be ruined. Further, he claimed that the

statement of his younger daughter T.S. recorded under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was obtained under coercion and

threat of false charges being implicated against her and her

sister. 3. S.S. sustained grievous injuries in her legs and spinal

cord and after regaining her consciousness after three hours of

being admitted in the hospital, she narrated the incident to T.S.

The petitioner reached the hospital on the evening of 7.9.2011 20 when the deceased recounted the incident to him. On 8.9.2011 at

7.30 P.M., S.S. succumbed to injuries. The petitioner contends

that despite the fact that S.S. remained alive for three days and

was in her full senses, under the influence of college authorities

police have not recorded the statement of S.S. Petitioner alleges

that the medical report of the victim was prepared on the

instruction and connivance of the college authorities making a

false allegation and chastising the character of the deceased. The

petitioner approached the Chief Minister of Rajasthan, Chairman of

National Human Rights Commission and the Chairman of National

Commission for Women in a bid to get justice, but of no avail. 4. Invoking Article 32 of the Constitution of India,

petitioner has filed this writ petition, stating that grave

injustice has been done to his daughter which is in violation of

the fundamental rights. The petitioner contends that the college

authorities have connived with the police and the hospital so as

to save the college from being levelled allegations of ragging.

The petitioner contends that the investigation conducted by the

State police is biased and therefore seeks direction to entrust

the investigation to CBI. 5. Respondent Nos. 1 to 4, namely, the police authorities

and the State of Rajasthan, have filed their counter affidavits

contending that none of the statements of the sister of

deceased, other friends, Principal of the college, chief warden,

warden and other staff and members revealed about any incident of

ragging. Respondent Nos. 1 to 4 contend that considering the pain 21 and agony of the family of the deceased, they conducted a fair

investigation in a proper manner so as to sub-serve the best

interest of justice. It is averred that the investigation of the

case was conducted under the direction of the senior officers and

during investigation no evidence of ragging was found and it was

found to be a case of suicide and to that effect, final report

was filed before the Court of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate,

Jaipur. 6. Respondent Nos. 5 to 7, namely, the college authorities,

filed counter affidavit denying each and every averment in the

petition. According to the college authorities, immediately

after the incident S.S. was taken to “Dulet Hospital” which is

hardly 500 metres from the campus. After first aid, S.S. was

referred to Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital, Jaipur where she was

admitted in the emergency ward and doctors had given her

immediate treatment. Respondent Nos. 5 to 7 further stated

that all the risk factors were explained to the petitioner by the

doctors about septicaemia and infection and other complications if

unwanted substances are not removed from the uterus of S.S. by

induction. The respondents also contend that the college

authorities constituted a committee on 6.9.2011 itself to

investigate the matter with regard to the ragging and the

committee found that the deceased was having medical problems like

nausea, vomiting and headache and there was no incident of

ragging, as alleged by the petitioner. It is averred that the

allegations levelled in the petition are totally baseless and 22 unfounded. According to Respondent Nos. 5 to 7, the complaint was

thoroughly investigated by the police and on finding that there

was no evidence of ragging, the police filed a final report in the

Court of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Jaipur. 7. Respondent No.8, namely, Central Bureau of Investigation,

prayed that the investigation in the instant case should be left

with the State police with the directions that a Special

Investigation Team be constituted to reach some logical end as the

instant case does not fall in the category of rare cases. 8. We have heard the submissions of the learned counsel for

the petitioner and the learned counsel for the respondents who

have reiterated the respective averments made in the writ petition

and the counter affidavits. We have also perused the medical

report of S.S., histopathological report, final report filed by

the State Police and other materials on record. 9. By perusal of the materials, it is seen that on lodging

of the complaint by the petitioner on 9.9.2011, police have

registered the case in F.I.R. No. 463/2011 under Section 306 of

the Indian Penal Code at Police Station Bagru, Jaipur. The State

police recorded the statement of the sister of deceased, other

classmates, principal of the college, chief warden, warden and

other staff, doctors and all the concerned persons. Based upon

the statement of witnesses, medical report and other materials,

the investigating officer found that it is a case of suicide and

filed the final report. I am refraining from entering upon the

details thereof, lest, it may prejudice any party. Upon 23 consideration of the materials, in my view, proper investigation

has been conducted. 10. Observing that handing over investigation to the CBI can

be ordered only in an exceptional situation and such an order is

not to be passed as a routine merely because a party has levelled

vague allegations, a Constitution Bench of this Court in State of

West Bengal & Ors. vs. Committee for Protection of Democratic

Rights, West Bengal & Ors., (2010) 3 SCC 571, in paragraph (70)

held as under:- 11. Having regard to the materials on record, in my 24 considered view, the case in hand is not such an exceptional

situation warranting special investigation by the CBI. The writ

petition is dismissed. However, the petitioner is at liberty to

work out the remedy in accordance with law. …………………………J.
 (R. Banumathi)

New Delhi; December 11, 2014