1. The present is a petition under Section 439 CrPC, 1973 on behalf of

the applicant/accused Rajat Sharma seeking bail in FIR No.10/2014

registered at Police Station- EOW, Mandir Marg under Sections

409 / 420 / 120B IPC. 2. At the outset, it is noticed that the applicant has been in judicial

custody since 02.11.2014 and that the subject charge-sheet has been filed on

29.12.2014 after thorough investigation. 3. Mr Vikas Pahwa, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the BAIL APPLN.279/2015 Page 1 of 7 applicant, has urged that there are no allegations against the applicant, who

was the Bank Manager, having accepted any illegal gratification. Next it has

been urged by Mr Pahwa that the beneficiaries of the subject loans against

deposit of gold have already been enlarged on bail by this court by way of

order dated 16.01.2015. Further it is argued by Mr Pahwa that there is no

likelihood of the trial commencing at an early date since the CFSL report

with respect to the gold deposit is still awaited. Furthermore it has been

urged that the beneficiaries to the subject loans are yet to be charge-sheeted.

Finally it is urged by Mr Pahwa that the applicant has been in custody for a

period of over five months and his two minor children aged about 10 and 3

years respectively are being subjected to undue harassment in the absence of

their only bread earner. 4. On the contrary, it has been urged by Ms Isha Khanna, learned APP

appearing on behalf of the State, that the applicant, who was the Manager of

the branch not only exceeded his financial limits but got appointed a relative

of the beneficiaries as an appraiser qua the subject loans. It is also urged by

Ms Khanna that the applicant is guilty of conspiracy inasmuch as he was

responsible for extending loans to the beneficiaries when he was the Branch

Manager in Karol Bagh and continued to benefit the same persons when he BAIL APPLN.279/2015 Page 2 of 7 was shifted to the Connaught Place branch. It is lastly urged by Ms Khanna

that it would be possible for the trial court to frame charges against the

applicant in the subject FIR. 5. The applicant herein is accused to have sanctioned loans amounting to

Rs.11 crores against spurious gold ornaments to the accused beneficiaries in

connivance with bank panel appraiser. It is alleged that the applicant had

sanctioned the said loans without prior consent of the bank operational

manager superseding the guidelines of the bank. 6. In a landmark decision reported as Sanjay Chandra v. Central

Bureau of Investigation : 2012 (1) SCC 40, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

crystallized the law in respect of regular bails as under:- If they have already surrendered before the Ld.
 Special Judge, CBI, that fact should also be
 supported by an affidavit. (e) We reserve liberty to the CBI to make an
 appropriate application for modification/recalling
 the order passed by us, if for any reason, the
 Appellants violate any of the conditions imposed
 by this Court." 7. A plain reading of the above decision makes it crystal clear that the

object of bail is to secure the appearance of the accused person at his trial. It BAIL APPLN.279/2015 Page 5 of 7 is further observed that the object of bail is neither punitive nor preventative

and that deprivation of liberty must be considered a punishment unless it is

required to ensure that the accused person will stand his trial when called

upon. The Supreme Court further observed that when a person is punished

by denial of bail in respect of any matter upon which he has not been

convicted it would be contrary to the concept of personal liberty enshrined in

the Constitution except in cases where there is reason to believe that he will

tamper with the witnesses. To encapsulate, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

held that pre-conviction detention should not be resorted to except in cases

of necessity to secure attendance at the trial or upon material that the accused

will tamper with the witnesses if left at liberty. 8. In the present case there is no gainsaying the fact that the applicant is

charged of an economic offence of some magnitude. However, the fact that

the investigating agency has already completed investigation and the

chargesheet has already been filed cannot be lost sight of. Furthermore there

is no hint or allegation that the accused is a flight risk; nor is there any

material to suggest that he will tamper with the evidence. Therefore, in my

view, the presence of the applicant in further custody is not necessary.

Furthermore, as mentioned above, the beneficiaries in the subject transaction BAIL APPLN.279/2015 Page 6 of 7 have already been enlarged on anticipatory bail by this court; and the

applicant has already been in custody for over five months. Consequently, I

am of the opinion that the applicant is entitled to grant of bail pending trial

on stringent conditions. 9. In the result it is directed that the applicant be released on bail on his

executing a personal bond in the sum of Rs.1,00,000/- with two sureties of

the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial court subject to further

condition that the applicant shall not directly or indirectly make any

inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the

case so as to dissuade him to disclose such facts to the court or to any other

authority and subject to further condition that the applicant shall remain

present before the court on the date fixed for hearing of the case. The

applicant shall surrender his passport, if not already surrendered, before the

trial court at the time of furnishing bail/surety bond. The application is

disposed of accordingly. 10. A copy of this order be given dasti under signature of Court Master

to counsel for the applicant. SIDDHARTH MRIDUL, J
 APRIL 21, 2015/mk BAIL APPLN.279/2015 Page 7 of 7