RAJNISH BHATNAGAR, J. 1. The present bail application has been filed by the petitioner
 under Section 439 Cr.P.C. seeking regular bail in case FIR No.
 264/2022 under Section 170 / 389 / 465 / 471 / 120B / 34 IPC registered at
 Police Station Crime Branch, Delhi. 2. Briefly stated, the facts of the case are that the present case was
 registered at PS Crime Branch, Delhi on the complaint of Sh.Vipul
 Kaushik. He filed this case on behalf of Sh. Hardev Singh, who is the
 Industrial Unit President of Nippon Paint India Ltd having its office in
 Mumbai and Vipul Kaushik is the channel partner of the company. 3. The case of the complainant is that all the accused persons in
 pursuance of a criminal conspiracy sent two fake notices in the name of
 Enforcement Directorate on the Whatsapp of Hardev Singh on
 08.11.2022. One notice was for appearance of Hardev Singh and
 another one for his colleague Kumar Hakim (who is the Director of
 Procurement in the factory situated at Nippon Paint India-Mumbai),
 directing them to appear before Enforcement Directorate Officer Manoj
 Kumar Teekla in his office in Delhi on 14.11.2022. The said notices
 were also received via Speed Post on 10.11.2022. 4. It is alleged that on 05.11.2022, before receiving the said notices,
 accused Akhilesh Mishra (who is the supplier of solvents on
 commission basis in Nippon Paint India) called Kumar Hakim and told
 him that a big trouble is about to come over Hardev Singh but he can
 help him to get rid of that trouble with the help of his contacts in the
 Ministries. Further on 08.11.2022, Akhilesh Mishra again called
 Kumar Hakim and confirmed about the trouble. 5. It is further alleged that on 10.11.2022, Hardev Singh asked
 Kumar Hakim to meet accused Akhilesh Mishra. Accordingly, Kumar
 Hakim met him and accused Akhilesh Mishra demanded Rs. 2-3 Crores
 to settle the matter and also asked Kumar Hakim to arrange a meeting
 with Hardev Singh. 6. On 11.11.2022, Hardev Singh informed Enforcement Directorate,
 Delhi about the said notices through his friend Vipul Kaushik from
 where, Hardev Singh came to know that the said notices are fake. For
 catching the culprits red-handed, Hardev Singh kept his conversation
 going on with accused Akhilesh Mishra and Darshan Harish Joshi
 (petitioner herein) to settle the matter. Accused Akhilesh Mishra and
 petitioner Darshan Harish Joshi told Hardev Singh that they have to go
 to Delhi to manage the matter in the department at a higher level,
 expenses of which has to bear by him. Accordingly, Hardev Singh
 arranged their flight tickets from Mumbai to Delhi and also booked a
 room in Hotel Ashoka, Delhi. 7. On 14.11.2022, Enforcement Directorate, New Delhi, informed
 Crime Branch, Delhi that some individuals are attempting to extort a
 person under the guise of being Enforcement Directorate officials.
 Thereafter a raid was conducted at Hotel Ashoka, Chankyapuri, Delhi
 by crime Branch Delhi alongwith the officials of Enforcement
 Directorate and a representative of complainant i.e. Vipul Kaushik. During the raid accused Akhilesh Mishra, Darshan Harish Joshi
 (petitioner herein), Vinod Kumar Patel, Dharmender Kumar Giri and
 Naresh Mahto were apprehended. 8. According to the case of the prosecution, one person arrived at
 Ashoka Hotel in the Ciaz car on which Government of India was
 written, then accused Akhilesh Mishra, Darshan Harish Joshi (present
 petitioner) and Vinod Kumar introduced him to Vipul Kaushik as the
 official of the Enforcement Directorate. According to the prosecution
 the said person then threatened the complainant to settle the matter
 otherwise an arrest warrant will be issued against Hardev Singh. 9. It was revealed during the interrogation of the above accused
 persons that said fake ED officer alongwith other accused persons was
 present at Gol Market, Delhi. Accordingly, a raid was conducted near
 Gol Market, Delhi and accused Asrar Ali, Vishnu Prasad and accused
 Devender Kumar Dubey were also arrested. 10. I have heard the Ld. counsel for the petitioner, Ld. APP for the
 State, perused the Status Report and also perused the records of this
 case. 11. It is submitted by the Ld. counsel for the petitioner that except Section 170 IPC all the other sections are bailable and it was lateron
 upon the statement of complainant section 387 IPC was added. It is BAIL APPLN. 543/2023 Page 4 of 8 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:29.05.2023 14:02:11 further submitted by the Ld. APP that co-accused Vishnu Prasad has
 been granted bail. The petitioner is in J.C. since 80 days, charge sheet
 has already been filed and the petitioner has clean past antecedents. 12. He further submitted that the petitioner has been falsely
 implicated and no useful purpose would be served by keeping him in
 judicial custody. He further submitted that the petitioner is a patient of
 diabetes and blood pressure and his health is deteriorating. He further
 submitted that the story of the prosecution about the incident which
 took place at Ashoka Hotel cannot be believed in the absence of
 independent witnesses. He has relied upon " Sanjay Chandra Vs.
 Central Bureau of Investigation " [(2012) 1 SCC 40]. 13. On the other hand, it is submitted by the Ld. APP for the state
 that the petitioner is the mastermind of the conspiracy and he alongwith
 co-accused proposed a settlement to Hardev Singh that they can get the
 matter settled with Enforcement Directorate for a sum of Rs. 2-3
 crores. The petitioner was apprehended from Ashok Hotel in the raid
 conducted on 14.11.2022. It is further submitted by the Ld. APP that
 the petitioner and other co-accused had claimed that they have
 connections with India's top agencies like CBI, ED and NIA as well as
 judges. It is further submitted by the Ld. APP that the petitioner is not
 entitled to party with co-accused as he was arrested from Ashok Hotel
 in a raid conducted by the agency. 14. In the instant case, there are specific allegations against the
 petitioner, who alongwith his co-accused had told the complainant that
 they can get the matter settled for Rs. 2 to 3 crores. The petitioner was
 arrested from Ashok Hotel alongwith other co-accused and the
 contention of the Ld. counsel for the petitioner that no independent
 witness has been joined by the IO, this contention has no force in it as
 it is a matter of experience that public persons are reluctant to join the
 investigation and the petitioner will have his chance to cross examine
 the arresting witness during the course of the trial. 15. The charge sheet shows conversations between the co-accused
 Akhilesh Mishra and Darshan Harish Joshi (present petitioner) that
 they have proposed the settlement to the complainant. The petitioner
 had come to Delhi from Mumbai and stayed at Ashoka Hotel from
 where they were arrested. The petitioner alongwith co-accused persons
 has introduced one Devender Kumar Dubey as an ED official to Vipul
 Kaushik who threatened Vipul Kaushik and thereafter the said fake ED
 official left and it is alleged that the petitioner alongwith his co-accused
 persons demanded Rs. 15 to 20 crores to settle the matter and it is at
 that time the raid was conducted and the petitioner was apprehended at
 the spot while negotiating with the complainant. 16. There is no dispute with regard to the propositions of law laid
 down in the judgment "supra" relied upon by the Ld. counsel for the BAIL APPLN. 543/2023 Page 6 of 8 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:29.05.2023 14:02:11 petitioner but each case has to be decided on the basis of its own
 peculiar facts and circumstances and the judgment "supra" relied upon
 by the Ld. counsel for the petitioner is not applicable to the facts of the
 present case. 17. The jurisdiction to grant bail has to be exercised on the basis of
 the well-settled principles having regard to the facts and circumstances
 of each case. The following factors are to be taken into consideration
 while considering an application for bail:- (i) the nature of accusation
 and the severity of the punishment in the case of conviction and the
 nature of the materials relied upon by the prosecution; (ii) reasonable
 apprehension of tampering with the witnesses or apprehension of threat
 to the complainant or the witnesses; (iii) reasonable possibility of
 securing the presence of the accused at the time of trial or the
 likelihood of his abscondence; (iv) character behaviour and standing of
 the accused and the circumstances which are peculiar to the accused; (v) larger interest of the public or the State and similar other
 considerations (vide Prahlad Singh Bhati v. NCT, Delhi and another (2001) 4 SCC 280). There is no hard and fast rule regarding grant or
 refusal to grant bail. Each case has to be considered on the facts and
 circumstances of each case and on its own merits. 18. In Jayendra Saraswathi Swamigal v. State of Tamil Nadu (2005) 2 SCC 13, it was held as under:- 19. Therefore, looking into the modus operandi adopted by the
 petitioner, the allegations against him which are grave and serious in
 nature and he alongwith co-accused persons had the audacity to
 introduce the complainant with a fake ED officials which is quite a
 serious thing, no ground for bail is made out at this stage. The bail
 application is, therefore dismissed. 20. Nothing stated hereinabove shall tantamount to the expression
 of any opinion on the merits of this case. RAJNISH BHATNAGAR, J
 MAY 25, 2023
 Sumant BAIL APPLN. 543/2023 Page 8 of 8 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMAL KANT MENDIRATTA Signing Date:29.05.2023 14:02:11