1. Two appeals have been heard analogously as they emanate out
High Court of
Calcutta
8 th of August
2024 12:51:55 PM of the same impugned judgement and order. 2 2. The appeal of the employer has been numbered as APO 66 of

 2022 while that of the employee has been numbered as APOT 134

 of 2022. 3. Learned advocate appearing for the employer has submitted

 that, the employee was issued a chargesheet dated January 27,

 2017 to which the employee had given a reply dated February 14,

 2017. Employee had challenged the disciplinary proceeding in a

 writ petition being WP 21662 (W) of 2016 which was disposed of by

 an order dated August 8, 2017 by directing the employer to

 conclude the departmental proceedings upon compliance with the

 principles of natural justice. 4. Learned advocate appearing for the employer has submitted

 that the enquiry officer submitted a report dated November 15,

 2017 and held all charges levelled against the employee in the

 chargesheet dated January 27, 2017 were proved. Employee had

 submitted written submissions with regard to the enquiry report.

 The disciplinary authority had passed an order dated December 30,

 2017 imposing the penalty of dismissal from service. Employee had

 preferred an appeal therefrom. Employee had filed a writ petition

 being WP 11130 of 2018 which was disposed of on July 11, 2018

 by directing the appellate authority to dispose of the appeal within 3 two weeks from the date of communication of the order. Appellate

 authority had passed an order dated August 16, 2018 confirming

 the order of dismissal from service. 5. Relying upon 2003 Volume 3 Supreme Court Cases 583

 ( Lalit Popli vs. Canara Bank and Others ) learned advocate

 appearing for the employer has contended that there was no

 violation of the principles of natural justice in the enquiry

 proceeding. Subsequent discharge in the criminal proceedings has

 no relevance in the facts and circumstances of the present case. He

 has also relied upon All India Reporter 1992 Supreme Court

 1981 ( Nelson Motis vs. Union of India and Another ) with regard

 to the effect of discharge in a criminal proceeding. He has

 contended that, the employee did not act with devotion diligence

 and integrity. He has relied upon 1998 Volume 4 Supreme Court

 Cases 310 ( Union Bank of India vs. Vishwa Mohan ) in support

 of such contention. 6. Relying upon 2003 Volume 4 Supreme Court Cases 364

 ( Chairman and Managing Director, United Commercial Bank

 and Others versus P.C. Kakkar ) learned advocate appearing for

 the employer has contended that, since there was no error in the 4 decision-making process, the decision taken by the employer

 should not be interfered with. 7. With regard to the scope of a writ of certiorari, learned

 advocate appearing for the employer has relied upon All India

 Reporter 1964 Supreme Court 477 ( Syed Yakoob vs. K. S.

 Radhakrishnan and Others ). On the aspect of exercise of powers

 under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India, learned

 advocate appearing for the employer has relied upon 2015 Volume

 2 Supreme Court Cases 610 ( Union of India and Others vs. P.

 Gunasekaran ). On the contention that, the quantum of

 punishment is within the domain of the employer, learned advocate

 appearing for the employer has relied upon 1996 Volume 3

 Supreme Court Cases 364 ( State Bank of Patiala and Others

 versus S.K. Sharma ). 8. Learned advocate appearing for the employer has relied upon

 All India Reporter 1982 Supreme Court 673 ( J. D Jain vs. The

 Management of State Bank of India ) for the contention that,

 strict rules of Indian Evidence Act do not apply in a domestic

 enquiry proceeding. He has also relied upon All India Reporter

 1977 Supreme Court 1512 ( State of Haryana vs. Rattan

 Singh ). 9. Learned advocate appearing for the employee has referred to

 the list of dates. He has contended that the employee was working

 as Senior Manager (Information Technology) (IT) of the employer

 and was deputed to a regional rural bank of which the employer

 was a sponsor on August 10, 2015. Employee had made a

 complaint under the Whistleblower Policy of the employer bringing

 to the notice of the Vigilance Authorities about bank loan fraud and

 looting of loan in the credit operations department and loan

 monitoring department. General Manager Human Resources (HR)

 had been alleged to be one of the persons involved. After such

 complaint employee had been suspended on July 13, 2016.

 Chargesheet had been issued subsequently. 10. Learned advocate appearing for the employee has pointed out

 to the charges levelled against the employee. He has contended

 that, the first charge of unauthorised access to the data server of

 the bank was not proved due to answers given by the prosecution

 witnesses. One of the prosecution witnesses had categorically

 stated that, it was not possible to have unauthorised access to the

 data server of the bank. Creation of fake email ID which is the 2nd

 charge has not been proved since, the employee issued the

 complaint under the Whistleblower Policy of the employer using 6 such email ID. In any event, the employee is accepting that such

 email ID is his and as such the question of the employee having

 created any fake email ID does not arise. The 3rd charge is with

 regard to arriving at the head office of the rural bank on June 18,

 2016 and being instrumental in changing the Central Processing

 Unit (CPU) of the computer set allotted to the manager which

 employer could not prove. 11. Learned advocate appearing for the employee has referred to

 various irregularities in the enquiry proceeding. He has contended

 that, such irregularities had vitiated the enquiry proceedings. He

 has referred to the order of punishment. He has contended that,

 the penalty order was issued from Assam whereas the draft order

 was prepared in Kolkata in the HR department which was headed

 by General Manager HR who was one of the accused in the

 complaint lodged by the employer under the Whistleblower Policy. 12. Learned advocate appearing for the employee has contended

 that, both the central government as well as the Reserve Bank of

 India had intervened on the basis of the complaint of the employee.

 RBI had written to the employer to review the disciplinary

 proceedings against the employee on May 30, 2018, and August 29,

 2018. Central Government had written a letter dated September 19, 7 2018 with regard to the punishment of dismissal meted out to the

 employee. 13. Learned advocate appearing for the employee has pointed out

 that the complaint of the employee against the officers lead to

 disciplinary action against 28 officers of the employer including the

 General Manager HR. 14. Learned advocate appearing for the employee has contended

 that, the entire disciplinary proceedings including the decisions

 taken therein stand vitiated due to administrative malice and

 personal bias against the employee. 15. Learned advocate appearing for the employee has contended

 that, the order of dismissal from service being bad in law has been

 correctly set aside by the learned Single Judge. However, learned

 single judge instead of awarding full back wages along with all

 attending benefits, had erred in directing only half of the back

 wages to be paid. He has contended that, the employee was

 prevented from discharging his services and therefore he should be

 compensated with full back wages. He has relied upon 2013

 Volume 10 Supreme Court Cases 324 ( Deepali Gundu Surwase

 vs. Kranti Junior Adhyapak Mahavidyalaya & Ors. ) and 2022 8 Volume 11 Supreme Court Cases 794 ( Gowramma C. vs.

 Manager (Personnel) HAL ) in this context. 16. Learned advocate appearing for the employee has relied upon

 2006 volume 4 Supreme Court Cases 713 ( Narinder Mohan

 Arya vs. United India Insurance Co. Ltd. ) and 2017 Volume 2

 Supreme Court Cases 308 ( Allahabad Bank & Ors. Vs. Krishna

 Narayan Tewari ) for the proposition that a court can interfere

 with a departmental proceeding when the enquiry report is based

 on no evidence. He has contended that, fairness in procedure is a

 principle of natural justice. 17. On the aspect of mala fide exercise of power and the meaning

 of mala fide learned advocate appearing for the employee has relied

 upon All India Reporter 1964 Supreme Court 64 ( Union of

 India vs. HC Goel ) and 2020 Volume 3 Supreme Court Cases 86

 ( Rajneesh Khajuria vs. Wockhardt Limited & Anr. ). 18. Learned advocate appearing for the employee has relied upon

 1981 Volume 1 Supreme Court Cases 722 ( Ajay Hasija vs.

 Khalid Mujib Sehrawadi ) for the proposition that, where a party

 does not deny allegations contained in an affidavit then such

 allegations should be accepted as true. 19. Employee while working with the employer on deputation to a

 rural bank had made a complaint to the Central Vigilance ( CPC ) on

 April 4, 2016 in terms of the whistle blower policy of the bank. 20. Employee had been suspended on July 30, 2016. A

 chargesheet had been issued by the employer on January 27, 2017.

 Employee had submitted a reply to the chargesheet on February

 14, 2017 and enquiry proceeding had commenced as against the

 employee. Inquiry Officer had submitted a report dated November

 15, 2017 finding the employee guilty of all the three charges

 levelled against him. 21. Employer had given a opportunity to the employee to submit a

 reply to the enquiry report which the employee did on December

 29, 2017. Disciplinary Authority had issued an order of

 punishment dated December 30, 2017 directing dismissal from

 services. 22. Employee had preferred an appeal to the Appellate Authority

 on January 6, 2018. By a letter dated May 30, 2018, RBI had asked

 the employer to review the decision in the disciplinary proceedings.

 However, Appellate Authority had concurred with the finding of the

 Disciplinary Authority by the order dated August 16, 2018. 10 23. By a letter dated August 29, 2018, RBI had requested the

 employer to review the disciplinary proceeding as against the

 employee. By a letter dated September 19, 2018, Union of India

 had expressed concern with regard to the dismissal from service of

 the employee. 24. In response thereto employer had written to the Union of India

 stating that the complaint of the employee had led to disciplinary

 proceedings against 21 employees of the employer. 25. A criminal proceeding had been initiated as against the

 employee which was disposed of by an order dated December 10,

 2019 passed by the learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate

 discharging the appellant. 26. Thereafter, the employee had filed a writ petition being WPO 52

 of 2019 giving rise to the impugned judgement and order. In the

 appeal filed by the employer, an interim order was sought for,

 which was refused by the Appeal Court on August 17, 2022.

 Employer had filed a Special Leave Petition which was disposed of

 by an order dated April 2, 2024 staying the operation of the order of

 reinstatement. 27. By the impugned judgement and order, learned Single Judge

 had exercised judicial review of a punishment awarded by a 11 disciplinary proceeding against the employee. On the scope of

 judicial review, several authorities had been cited at the bar which

 requires consideration. 28. Lalit Popli (supra) has held that where the findings of the

 Disciplinary Authority are based on some evidence, the Court or

 Tribunal cannot re-appreciate the evidence and substitute its own

 finding. 29. On the scope of judicial review, P.C Kakkar (supra) has held

 that, the scope of judicial review is limited to the deficiency in

 decision making process and not the decision. 30. On the scope of a writ of certiorari, Syed Yakoob (supra) has

 held that, writ of certiorari can be issued for correcting errors of

 jurisdiction committed by inferior Courts or Tribunals particularly

 when orders are passed without jurisdiction or in excess of it or as

 a result of failure to exercise jurisdiction. It has also observed that

 a writ of certiorari can be issued where the Court or Tribunal acted

 illegally or improperly or where the procedure adopted is opposed to

 principles of natural justice. However, it has cautioned that, Court

 exercising jurisdiction for issuance of a writ of certiorari is not

 entitled to act as an Appellate Court that is to say that, re- 12 appreciate the evidence and substitute its own finding with that

 which was reached. 31. While dealing with scope of interference under Article 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India in relation to service matters, P.

 Gunasekaran (supra) has held that, High Court is not and cannot

 act as a second Court of First Appeal. 32. J. D Jain (supra) has dealt with a writ petition challenging an

 award of an industrial tribunal. In such context, it has held that, a

 writ Court can quash an industrial award when the Tribunal has

 committed an error or law apparent on the face of the record or

 when the finding of the industrial tribunal is perverse. 33. Rattan Singh (supra) has held that, in a domestic enquiry,

 the strict rules of evidence under the Evidence Act may not apply.

 It has also held that, the sufficiency of evidence for proof of the

 finding by a domestic tribunal is beyond scrutiny. Absence of any

 evidence in support of a finding is certainly available to the Court

 to look into because it amounts to an error of law apparent on the

 face of the record. 34. Narinder Mohan Arya (supra) has held that, Court can

 interfere in departmental enquiries where the enquiry report is 13 based on no evidence. Same view has been expressed in Krishna

 Narayan Tewari (supra). 35. Conclusion arrived at on the basis of no evidence is suggestive

 of mala fide. Meaning of mala fide has been explained in Rajneesh

 Khajuria (supra). It has held that mala fide means want of good

 faith, personal bias and grudge and encompassing a situation

 where administrative action is to object and encompassing

 situation where administrative action is contrary to object. 36. Vishwa Mohan (spura) in the facts of that case, has held that,

 the employee failed to demonstrate any prejudice against him due

 to non-supply of the enquiry report and therefore, the disciplinary

 proceeding was held not to be vitiated by breach of principles of

 natural justice. 37. S. K. Sharma (supra) had held that, in administrative law, no

 inflexible rule as to applicability of principle of natural justice can

 be laid down. Where natural justice has been alleged to be violated,

 the writ petitioner has to establish prejudice. 38. While a writ petition against an order passed in the disciplinary

 proceeding is maintainable, the success thereof is dependent upon

 the writ petitioner establishing any of the following :- 14 39. Scope of judicial review of decision taken in a disciplinary

 proceeding is limited. In a judicial review of a decision taken in a

 disciplinary proceeding Court is not required to act a Court of

 appeal, re-appreciate the evidence and substituted its finding with

 that of the one under challenge. Sufficiency of the evidence is not

 within the domain of the Court, if there is some evidence to arrive

 at the decision impugned. 40. In disciplinary proceedings, three charges had been levelled as

 against the employee namely,

 i. Unauthorized access to bank server to extract data

 ii. Creation of fake e-mail ID 15 iii. Arriving early at the branch on June 18, 2016 to

 swap the CPU of the computer set allegedly

 belonging to another employee. 41. With regard to the first charge in the enquiry proceedings,

 management witness No. 2 in answer to a question put by the

 employee whether from the rural bank where the employee was

 posted, access to the server/system/network of the employer was

 possible or not. Such management witness No. 2 had replied in the

 negative to such question. 42. Indisputably, employee had been working on deputation at the

 rural bank at the material point of time when it is alleged that the

 employee had accessed the server of the employer to extract data. 43. In view of such categorical answer in the negative given by

 management witness No. 2, first charge as against the employee

 has to be held to be not proved. Employer has failed to produce any

 evidence at the enquiry that access to the server of the employer

 was possible from the rural bank. 44. The second charge of creation of fake e-mail ID has no

 substance. Employee has accepted that the so called fake e-mail ID

 is his. Question therefore, of such e-mail ID remaining fake on the

 acceptance of the same as his own by the employee does not arise. 16 In any event, the complaint made through such so called fake e-

 mail ID had been acted upon by the employer. 21 officers of the

 employer had been proceeded against on the basis of the complaint

 emanating out of such so called fake e-mail ID. The substance in

 the allegations of the employee as contained in the complaint made

 through the alleged fake e-mail ID stood vindicated upon

 punishment being imposed against 21 of the bank officers. 45. The third charge of early arrival for the purpose of replacing

 the CPU of another employee concerned has not been proved at the

 enquiry. The CPU recovered from the relative of the employee has

 not been established to be the CPU belonging to the other employee

 of the bank. 46. Although, sufficiency of evidence in proof of a finding in a

 domestic tribunal is beyond scrutiny by a Constitutional Court,

 exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 and 227 of the

 Constitution, nonetheless, the same Court exercising the same

 jurisdiction can decide as to whether there was absence of any

 evidence in support of a finding on the principle that finding

 without evidence amounts to an error of law apparent on the record

 for which a writ of certiorari can be issued. 47. In the impugned judgement and order, learned Single Judge

 had taken the pains to consider the evidence available during the

 enquiry in respect of the three charges. Learned Single Judge has

 held that there was no evidence for the Inquiry Officer to arrive at a

 finding of guilt in respect of any of the three charges. As noted

 above, absence of any evidence tantamount to an error apparent on

 the record triggering the jurisdiction of a Constitutional Court. 48. In view of the discussions above, appeal at the behest of the

 employer is without merit and is dismissed, however, without any

 order as to costs. 49. Employee has appealed against the direction contained in the

 impugned judgement and order with regard to payment of back

 wages. The impugned judgement and order has directed half of the

 back wages to be paid to the employee. 50. Deepali Gundu Surwase (supra) has held that, in cases of

 wrongful termination, reinstatement with full back wages is the

 normal rule unless there is supervening circumstances. 51. Gowramma C. (supra) has held that, if an employee is kept

 out of work by a decision of the employer then such employee

 should not be denied back wages upon the employee being

 vindictive. 52. Both Deepali Gundu Surwase (supra) and Gowramma C. (supra) and have held that, if the employee was kept out of work by

 a decision of the employer then reinstatement with full back wages

 is normal rule on such decision being set aside, unless there are

 supervening circumstances. The employee herein has been kept out

 of work without any justification, at the behest of the employee. In

 course of hearing, employee has relied on a counter affidavit filed

 by him in the Special Leave Petition (C) No. 17059 - 17060 of 2022

 where, he has taken the stand that he was without job, and

 without salary for the last 5 years. 53. We have not found any supervening circumstances which

 allows denial of full back wages to the employee upon his

 reinstatement. 54. In Nelson Motis (supra) it has been held that, where the

 nature and scope of the disciplinary proceeding was different from

 that of a criminal case, acquittal in criminal case did not affect the

 disciplinary proceeding or the decision arrived thereat. 55. Ajay Hasija (supra) has held that in case a party does not

 deny allegations on affidavit then the allegation should be accepted

 as true. 56. Consequently, we allow the appeal of the employee being APOT

 134 of 2022 by modifying the direction passed by the learned

 Single Judge with regard to payment of back wages to the

 employee. We direct that, the employer reinstates the employee

 forthwith with full back wages and other service benefits from the

 date of his dismissal from service till his reinstatement. Payments

 be made within four weeks from date. Employer will treat the

 employee to be in continuous service, as if the order of suspension

 and the disciplinary proceeding not occurring and will afford all

 consequential benefits to the employee treating him an employee as

 such. 57. APO 66 of 2022 is dismissed. 58. APOT 134 of 2022 is disposed of without any order as to costs. [DEBANGSU BASAK, J.] 59. I agree. [MD. SHABBAR RASHIDI, J.]