Mehta, J. Signature Not Verified 1. Heard. KAVITA PAHUJA Date: 2024.08.28 15:01:52 IST Reason: 2. Leave granted. 1 3. This batch of appeals, which involves identical questions of fact

and law, arises from the judgments delivered by the Division Bench

of the High Court of Karnataka, as listed in the table below. Given

the similarities, the appeals have been heard together and are being

decided collectively. Civil Appeals arising out of SLP (C) No(s). 13484-13488 of 2019 shall

be treated as the lead matter. The outcome of these appeals shall

govern all the connected matters. 4. The common thread that runs through these matters is as to

whether a person who joined the services of a Nationalized

Bank/Government of India undertaking based on a certificate that

identified him/her as belonging to a Scheduled

Caste(‘SC’)/Scheduled Tribe(‘ST’) in the State of Karnataka, pursuant

to the State Government's notifications, would be entitled to retain

the position after the caste/tribe has been de-scheduled. The

situation has arisen on account of the State of Karnataka re-

designating some castes under the list of SC/ST, inspite of the fact

that this jurisdiction is exclusively conferred upon the Parliament by

virtue of the scheme under Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution

of India. 3 5. In brief, the individual details of the appellants in the lead

matter are detailed below: - The President had the benefit of consulting the States through
 Governors of States which had the means and machinery to find
 out and recommend as to whether a particular caste or tribe was
 to be included in the Presidential Order. If the said Orders are to
 be amended, it is Parliament that is in a better position to know
 having the means and machinery unlike courts as to why a
 particular caste or tribe is to be included or excluded by law to
 be made by Parliament. Allowing the State Governments or
 courts or other authorities or Tribunals to hold inquiry as to
 whether a particular caste or tribe should be considered as one
 included in the schedule of the Presidential Order, when it is not
 so specifically included, may lead to problems. In order to gain
 advantage of reservations for the purpose of Article 15(4) or 16(4)
 several persons have been coming forward claiming to be covered
 by Presidential Orders issued under Articles 341 and 342. This
 apart, when no other authority other than Parliament, that too
 by law alone can amend the Presidential Orders, neither the
 State Governments nor the courts nor Tribunals nor any
 authority can assume jurisdiction to hold inquiry and take
 evidence to declare that a caste or a tribe or part of or a group
 within a caste or tribe is included in Presidential Orders in one
 entry or the other although they are not expressly and
 specifically included. A court cannot alter or amend the said
 Presidential Orders for the very good reason that it has no
 power to do so within the meaning, content and scope of Articles 341 and 342. It is not possible to hold that either
 any inquiry is permissible or any evidence can be let in, in
 relation to a particular caste or tribe to say whether it is
 included within Presidential Orders when it is not so
 expressly included. (emphasis supplied) 8. Pursuant to the judgment in the case of Milind (supra), the

Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs(Banking 6 Division), Government of India in consultation with the Ministry of

Welfare vide letter dated 12th March 1987, declared the State of

Karnataka circulars which included the ‘Kotegara’ caste in the list of

Scheduled Castes in the State of Karnataka to be non-est. The letter

addressed to the Chairman & Managing Director of the concerned

authorities is reproduced herein below:- 9. The Government of Karnataka issued a circular dated 11th

March, 2002 providing protection to individuals employed in State

services who had obtained Caste Certificates based on a synonymous

caste under the Government circulars, issued by the State. These

individuals were to be treated as having been appointed under the 7 General Merit(GM) category, effective from 11th March, 2002. The said

circular also provided that such candidates would not be eligible for

future promotions or any other benefits as SCs/STs, although they

could claim benefits under the respective Backward Classes to which

they belonged. Although the ‘Kotegara’ community was not included

in this circular, a subsequent circular dated 29th March, 2003 was

issued by the Government of Karnataka, extending the benefits of the

circular dated 11th March, 2002 to individuals belonging to the

Kotegara, Kotekshathriya, Koteyava, Koteyar, Ramakshathriya,

Sherugara, and Sarvegara communities, who had obtained Caste

Certificates in accordance with the earlier Government circulars. 10. It is also undisputed that the Caste Certificates held by the

appellants were cancelled by the Competent Authority, namely the

District Caste Verification Committee, and this decision was

communicated to their respective employers. Subsequently, criminal

proceedings were initiated against some of the appellants at the

concerned police station; however, these proceedings were quashed

by the High Court while exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 of

the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973(hereinafter referred to as

' CrPC '). 8 11. Respondent No. 2 i.e., Additional Director General of Police,

Directorate of Civil Rights Enforcement Cell, intimated respondent

No.1-bank to terminate the services of the appellants on the ground

that they had secured employment based on fake Caste Certificates.

In turn, respondent No.1-bank issued notices to the appellants

calling upon them to show cause as to why their services should not

be terminated. The appellants challenged the aforesaid notices by

filing writ petitions before the High Court of Karnataka which came

to be rejected. 12. Being aggrieved by the dismissal of their writ petitions, the

appellants preferred intra-Court writ appeals before the learned

Division Bench of the High Court against the order of the learned

Single Judge. The Division Bench of the High Court dismissed the

intra-Court appeals. 13. This batch of appeals by special leave has been preferred to

assail the decisions of the learned Division Bench of the High Court

of Karnataka, rejecting the writ appeals as indicated in the table

above. 9 Submissions on behalf of the appellants: - 14. Learned counsel representing the appellants, vehemently and

fervently contended that the very foundation of the case as presented

by respondent No. 1-bank and the other employers, that the Caste

Certificates held by the appellants are false/fake, is misplaced. They

contended that the Caste Certificates were validly issued by the

Competent Authority, affirming/certifying that the appellants

belonged to the Scheduled Caste as their caste had been included in

the Scheduled Castes list by virtue of the notifications/circulars

issued by the Government of Karnataka. They further submitted that

the effect of the cancellation of these Caste Certificates pursuant to

the judgment in Milind (supra) would only deprive the appellants

from claiming any additional/future service benefits including

promotion etc. based on their reserved category status. None of the

appellants had ever misrepresented themselves before the authorities

regarding their caste and the contentious Caste Certificates were

issued after following the due process of law, and thus the same

cannot be questioned as false or fake Certificates. 15. Learned counsel further submitted that following the

Government circulars dated 11th March, 2002 and 29th March, 2003 10 issued by the Government of Karnataka, the Ministry of

Finance(Department of Financial Services)(Welfare Section),

Government of India had also issued a letter dated 17th August, 2005,

to the Chairman and Managing Director, State Bank of Mysore with

the following directions: - 16. Learned counsel contended that since the Ministry of Finance,

Government of India, had also endorsed the views expressed in the

circulars dated 11th March, 2002 and 29th March, 2003 issued by the

Government of Karnataka, the learned Division Bench of the High

Court fell in error while denying relief to the appellants and in

refusing to protect their services by granting them the benefits of

these circulars. He also asserted that the subsequent communication

via Office Memorandum issued by the Ministry of Social Justice and

Empowerment on 8th July, 2013 relied upon by the respondents

cannot be read and employed to the detriment of the appellants

because the same does not have retrospective application. 17. Learned counsel further submitted that the Division Bench of

the Karnataka High Court erred in denying relief to the appellants by

relying upon the judgment in the case of Chairman and Managing

Director Food Corporation of India and Others v. Jagadish 12 Balaram Bahira and Others2 because the ratio of the said

judgment is based on the interpretation of the “Maharashtra

Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, De-notified Tribes (Vimukta

Jatis), Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes, and Special

Backward Category (Regulation of Issuance and Verification of) Caste

Certificate Act, 2000”, which was a special enactment specific to the

State of Maharashtra. No such enactment exists in the State of

Karnataka, which, in contrast, had issued circulars dated 11th

March, 2002 and 29th March, 2003, protecting those individuals who

had obtained Caste Certificates on the basis of pre-existing circulars

issued by the State by referring to the synonymous castes. 18. On these grounds, learned counsel for the appellants implored

the Court to accept the appeals; set aside the impugned orders; and

command the respondents to protect the services of the appellants.

Submissions on behalf of the respondents:- 19. E-converso, learned counsel representing the respondents,

vehemently and fervently opposed the contentions advanced on

behalf of the appellants. They urged that the appellants had

2 (2017) 8 SCC 670 13 procured employment against the reserved category seats based on

false Caste Certificates and thus, they are not entitled to protect their

services. It was submitted that the Government circulars dated 11th

March, 2002 and 29th March, 2003 issued by the Government of

Karnataka provided protection only to the individuals employed in

the State services and thus, the said circulars could not have enured

to the benefit of individuals akin to the appellants who procured

employment with the Central Government/Government of India

Undertakings/Autonomous Institutions over which the Government

of India has deep and pervasive control. 20. Learned counsel for the respondents stressed upon the Office

Memorandum dated 8th July, 2013 issued by the Ministry of Social

Justice and Empowerment, Government of India referring to the

Government of Karnataka circular dated 11th March, 2002 and urged

that the synonymous castes, Kotegara, Kotekshathriya, Koteyava,

Koteyar, Ramakshathriya, Sherugara, and Sarvegara, etc. are not

mentioned in the Scheduled Castes list of the State of Karnataka and

therefore, the members of these synonymous castes i.e., the

appellants herein cannot claim the benefits of the Scheduled Caste

category even in the State of Karnataka. 14 21. Learned counsel submitted that the controversy at hand is

squarely covered by the Constitution Bench judgment of this Court

in the case of Milind (supra), wherein it has been laid down beyond

the pale of doubt that the States have no power to amend the

Presidential Orders issued under Article 341 of the Constitution of

India. The power to include or exclude, amend or alter the

Presidential Order is expressly and exclusively conferred on and

vested with the Parliament, and that too by making law in this regard,

and thus, the appellants were rightly denied relief by the Division

Bench of the Karnataka High Court. 22. Learned counsel representing the respondent No.1-bank, urged

that the appellants are not entitled to claim protection of their

services which they procured against the reserved seats on the basis

of false or fake Caste Certificates. 23. Learned counsel representing the other respondents-employers

adopted the above submissions and implored the Court to dismiss

the appeals and affirm the judgments rendered by the High Court. 24. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions

advanced at the bar and have gone through the impugned judgments

and the material placed on record. 15 Discussion and Conclusion: - 25. At the outset, it is to be noted that there is no dispute over the

fact that the appellants obtained their Caste Certificates(under the

Scheduled Castes category) by following the due process of law. When

these Caste Certificates were issued, the synonymous caste, as of the

appellants had been included in the list of Scheduled Castes by virtue

of the circular issued by the Government of Karnataka, albeit by

exercising powers that were not vested in the State. 26. As held by the Constitution Bench in Milind (supra), any

inclusion or exclusion in or from the list of Scheduled Castes can

only be made through an Act of Parliament under Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution of India. As a corollary thereto, neither the

State Government nor the Courts have the authority to modify the

list of Scheduled Castes as promulgated by the Presidential order

under the above Articles. 27. For this precise reason, pursuant to the judgment in Milind (supra), the Government of Karnataka took the only

permissible decision to de-schedule the castes to which the

appellants herein belonged. However, considering the fact that the

Caste Certificates issued to the appellants under the previous 16 inclusions made by the State Government to the Scheduled Castes

list, albeit under a legal misconception was not obtained through

misrepresentation or fraud, the State Government took the pragmatic

decision to protect the employment of those individuals who had been

benefited by these Caste Certificates obtained prior to issuance of the

Government circulars dated 11th March, 2002 and 29th March, 2003.

There is no dispute on the fact that each of the appellants herein fall

within this category. These Government circulars clearly stipulate

that individuals who secured employment based on the Caste

Certificates issued under the erroneous Government

circulars/orders would no longer be entitled to claim future benefits

under such certificates and would henceforth be treated as General

Merit category candidates for all practical purposes. 28. The Ministry of Finance, Government of India, while referring to

the Government of Karnataka's circular dated 29th March 2003,

clarified and recommended that in cases where a Scheduled Caste

employee(s) has been de-scheduled after an appointment in the

Bank, the concerned employee(s) may be treated under the General

Merit category, and any disciplinary cases pending against him/her 17 should be withdrawn, and such employee(s) would have to surrender

the original Caste certificate to the Competent Authority. 29. There cannot be any two views on the proposition that with the

issuance of the Government of Karnataka’s circulars dated 11th

March, 2002 and 29th March, 2003, the Scheduled Caste Certificates

held by the appellants herein stood automatically revoked and they

were brought under the unreserved category with effect from 12th

March, 1987. 30. In the case of Milind (supra), this Court was dealing with the

issue regarding the State’s power to amend the Presidential Order. It

was held that the State has no jurisdiction to tinker with the

Presential Orders issued under Article 341 of the Constitution of

India. It was not even urged by the learned counsel for the appellants

that the certificates held by the appellants based on the erroneous

list of inclusion issued by the State Government were valid or should

be protected. Their only prayer was to protect the services of the

appellants while conceding that their Caste Certificates would be

deemed invalid and that they would not be entitled to any future

benefits under the reserved category. 18 31. Even in the case of Milind (supra), while concluding the

judgment, this Court saved the services of the respondents therein

in the following manner:- 32. The circulars dated 11th March, 2002 and 29th March, 2003

were issued by the Government of Karnataka whereby, protection

was extended to the persons who had taken advantage of the Caste

Certificates issued prior to issuance of the letter dated 12th March,

1987, by the Ministry of Finance, Government of India.

Subsequently, the Ministry of Finance, Government of India vide

office memorandum dated 17th August, 2005 also ratified this 19 decision of the State, and extended the protection granted by the

Government of Karnataka to the employees of the respondent No.1-

bank. 33. On a close scrutiny of the Office Memorandum dated 8th July,

2013, which was heavily relied upon by the learned counsel for the

respondents, it transpires that the concerned authority in para 3 of

the Office Memorandum referred only to the Government circular

dated 11th March, 2002 issued by the Government of Karnataka for

excluding certain castes from the umbrella of protection. It states

that “the Government Notification dated 11th March 2002 related to

Parivara, Talwar, Maleru, Kuruba, Besta, and Koli communities,

whose members had obtained Scheduled Tribe certificates. In the said

order there is no mention of Kotegara, Kotekshathriya, Koteyava,

Koteyar, Ramakshathriya, Sherugara, and Sarvegara, etc castes.” 34. Apparently thus, the above Office Memorandum was issued in

ignorance of the Government of Karnataka’s circular dated 29th

March 2003, which further extended the protection granted by the

earlier Government circular dated 11th March, 2002 to the

communities including Kotegara, Kotekshathriya, Koteyava, Koteyar,

Ramakshathriya, Sherugara, and Sarvegara as well. This 20 Government circular seems to have completely escaped the notice of

the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of

India while issuing the Office Memorandum dated 8th July, 2013.

Clearly thus, the Office Memorandum suffers from the vice of non-

consideration of a vital document being the circular dated 29th

March, 2003 issued by the Government of Karnataka. Hence, we

have no hesitation in holding that the Office Memorandum dated 8th

July, 2013, cannot supersede the communication dated 17th August,

2005 issued by the Ministry of Finance and the same cannot be read

to the prejudice of the appellants. 35. In wake of the discussion made above, we conclude that the

appellants are entitled to protection of their services by virtue of the

Government circular dated 29th March, 2003 issued by the

Government of Karnataka as ratified by communication dated 17 th

August, 2005 issued by the Ministry of Finance. The circular dated

29th March, 2003 issued by the Government of Karnataka specifically

extended protection to various castes, including those which were

excluded in the earlier Government circular dated 11th March, 2002.

This subsequent circular covered the castes such as Kotegara,

Kotekshathriya, Koteyava, Koteyar, Ramakshathriya, Sherugara, 21 and Sarvegara, thus, ensuring that individuals of these castes,

holding Scheduled Castes Certificates issued prior to de-scheduling,

would be entitled to claim protection of their services albeit as

unreserved candidates for all future purposes. Additionally, the

communication issued by the Ministry of Finance dated 17th August,

2005 reinforced the protective umbrella to the concerned bank

employees and also saved them from departmental and criminal

action. 36. There is an additional feature in Civil Appeals @ SLP(C) Nos.

23500-23501 of 2019, that must be highlighted. The appellant, in

the said appeals namely Smt. Hemavathy, contends that she secured

8th rank in the Bachelor of Engineering course with a specialization

in Industrial Production from Mysore University in 1995. It was

argued on her behalf that regardless of the Caste Certificate, the

appellant would have secured a job at Hindustan Aeronautics

Limited(hereinafter being referred to as ‘HAL’) based on her merit in

engineering degree and that the show cause notice was issued as

women employees are not welcome in the institution(HAL). This

significant contention raised by the appellant has not been 22 adequately traversed by the respondent-HAL in their counter

affidavit. 37. Consequently, we hold that the proposed action of the

respondent banks/undertakings in issuing notice(s) to the appellants

to show cause as to why their services may not be terminated cannot

be sustained and are hereby quashed. 38. As a result, the impugned judgments rendered by the Division

Bench do not stand to scrutiny, and hence, the same are quashed

and set aside. 39. The appeals are accordingly allowed in these terms. No costs. 40. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. ………………….……….J.
 (HIMA KOHLI)

 .………………………….J.
 (SANDEEP MEHTA)

New Delhi; August 28, 2024 23