Mr.Sandeep Vermani, Addl. Advocate General, Haryana,
 for the respondent-State. ***

INDERJIT SINGH, J

 The instant appeal is directed against the judgment of

conviction dated 01.05.2009 and order of sentence dated

02.05.2009, passed by Addl. Sessions Judge, Hisar, vide which

appellants Surender and Bhal Singh alias Sonu have been held guilty

for the commission of offence punishable under Sections 302, 201

and 387 read with Section 34 IPC and accordingly they have been

convicted and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay

a fine of Rs.5,000/- each and in default of payment of fine to further

undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of two months each

under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC; rigorous imprisonment
 Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [2] for three years and to pay a fine of Rs.2500/- each and in default of

payment of fine to further undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period

of one month each under Section 201 read with Section 34 IPC and

rigorous imprisonment for three years and to pay a fine of Rs.2500/-

each and in default of payment of fine to further undergo rigorous

imprisonment for a period of one month each under Section 387 read

with Section 34 IPC. All the sentences were ordered to run

concurrently. Brief facts of the prosecution case are that on

22.06.2005, an application was given by Onkar Chaudhary, which

was addressed to SHO, Police Station Civil Line, Hisar, in which it is

stated that on 21.06.2005, at about 3:15 O'clock, applicant's son

Sahil, aged about 16 years had gone to the shop of Suresh,

Mechanic, situated near CMC. Hisar, for getting repaired Maruti car.

In the meantime, a telephonic call came from someone on Sahil's

mobile phone No.9416216688, which he was having with him. Upon

this call, Sahil left the car with Suresh, Mechanic and went away.

After about half an hour, applicant's wife Santosh received a

telephonic call at her domestic telephone from Sahil through his own

phone, who while weeping told that he had been kidnapped and soon

thereafter some unknown person took his phone and asked to pay

Rs.10,00,000/- otherwise it would not be good. Applicant further

stated that those criminals made 7-8 calls from their phone

No.98120-35611 on his phone No.98132-77499 and demanded
 Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [3] Rs.10,00,000/- as ransom and also abused in filthy language. At

this, applicant alongwith his brother-in-law (wife's brother) Ved

Parkash was going to Delhi by his car but from village Sampla, they

came back to Hisar and inquired from Suresh, Mechanic, who told

him that Sahil had given him a slip on which phone Nos.9416216688

and 9812035611 were written and he (Sahil), while going, had asked

to call him on those numbers if any necessity arises. It is further

stated in the application that till that time they were searching his son

but no clue could be found. On the basis of this application, FIR

No.235 dated 22.06.2005 was registered under Sections 364-A and 387 IPC at police Station Civil Line, Hisar. On the same day, another FIR No.425 dated 22.06.2005

was registered under Sections 302 and 201 IPC at Police Station

Sadar, Hisar, on the basis of statement (Ex.P17) of one Amir Singh,

which was recorded by Sub Inspector Bhupinder Singh, Police

Station Sadar, Hisar at 8:35 a.m. on 22.06.2005. In his statement,

Amir Singh stated that he is resident of village Gorchhi, Hisar and

used to do agriculture work. His field is at about one kilometer from

village Gorchhi on Panihar Check road. He had sown Jawar seed in

his field and for its guard, he used to sleep in the field during the

night. On 21.06.2005, he started from his house for his field, as

usual, and reached there at about 8:30 p.m. and saw that big cotton

sticks heap was burning. By going nearby, he saw dead body of a

human being, burning in the said cotton sticks. The complainant
 Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [4] became perplexed. He returned to his house and narrated that fact

to his father Birsal Singh. His father, alongwith complainant, Chattar

Singh, Sarpanch, Juglal, Lambardar, Nathu Ram and Ram Sarup,

Chowkidar reached the field and saw that whole of the cotton sticks

had been burnt and the dead body of unknown person had been

burning. They, by putting water over the fire, extinguished it. Dead

body was half burnt, which was of a human being and it seemed to

be of a man. Unknown assailants, after killing the unknown person,

have thrown the dead body in the heap of their cotton sticks and

have set on fire for screening away the dead body. Complainant

further stated that inquires were made in villages Gorchhi, Panihar,

Sarsna, Rawalwas etc. for identification of the dead body, but no clue

had been found out. After leaving Nathu Ram, Chowkidar near the

dead body for its guarding, when the complainant was going to police

station to report the matter, the police party met him on the way and

his statement was recorded. Ruqa was sent to the police station on

the basis of which FIR was registered. Sub Inspector Bhoop Singh,

who was posted at Police Station Sadar, Hisar on 22.06.2005,

alongwith other police officials reached the spot and prepared rough

site plan Ex.P20 of the place of occurrence. He conducted the

proceedings under Section 174 Cr.P.C. and prepared inquest report

Ex.P21. Thereafter, dead body was sent for postmortem examination

through Constable Jagdish Rai. Sub Inspector Bhoop Singh also

recorded the statements of witnesses. Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [5] On 22.06.2005, Sub Inspector Ramesh Kumar, posted at

Police Station Civil Line, Hisar, who partly investigated the case,went

to the place of occurrence and prepared the rough site plan Ex.P66.

Statement of Suresh Kumar was recorded, who produced the chit on

which two mobile phone numbers were written. The said chit was

taken into police possession vide recovery memo Ex.P3. On

23.06.2005, Inspector Om Parkash, SHO, Police Station Civil Line,

Hisar, took the investigation of this case from Sub Inspector Ramesh

Kumar. During investigation, Inspector Om Parkash recorded the

statement of Sachin. On 20.07.2005, he alongwith other police

officials went to Patiala House, Delhi Court and moved an application

there for joining both the accused in the investigation. After seeking

permission, Inspector Om Parkash joined both the accused in the

investigation and obtained their transit remand for producing them

before concerned Illaqa Magistrate. On 21.07.2005, he produced

both the accused before the Illaqa Magistrate and obtained their

police remand. During interrogation, both the accused suffered

disclosure statements Ex.P35 and Ex.P36 regarding the murder of

Sahil and regarding parking of the vehicle in the premises of Civil

Hospital, Hisar, which was used in the offence. In pursuance of their

disclosure statements, the accused pointed out the place from where

Sahil was kidnapped and where his dead body was burnt etc. vide

pointing out memos Ex.P37 to Ex.P39. On 22.07.2005, both

accused Surender and Bhal Singh were again interrogated and they
 Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [6] suffered disclosure statements Ex.P41 and Ex.P42 regarding

preparing of fake driving licence. On 23.07.2005, both the accused

were again interrogated and during interrogation, accused Bhal

Singh suffered disclosure statement Ex.P25 regarding concealing of

a stereo of car and one string etc., which were kept in a plastic bag

and the same were concealed in the house of Surender. Accused

Surender also suffered disclosure statement Ex.P26 regarding

concealing of aforesaid articles in his house. Both the accused also

pointed out the place of parking of the car and demarcation memo

Ex.P29 regarding the same was prepared. The car was already

taken into possession by CIA Staff under Section 102 Cr.P.C.

Investigating Officer went there and took into possession car bearing

registration No.HR-12-C-9469 vide recovery memo Ex.P5. On

26.07.2005, Investigating Officer visited Delhi and took into

possession photocopies of FIR Ex.P44, recovery memo Ex.P45 of

photographs, recovery memo Ex.P46 of mobile phone and sim card,

seizure memo Ex.P47 of driving licence, disclosure statement

Ex.P48 of accused Bhal Singh, FIR No.103 of 2005 dated

04.07.2005 Ex.P49, recovery memo Ex.P50 of key and sim card,

recovery memo Ex.P51 of mobile phone, seizure memo Ex.P52 of

key, SIM card, driving licence and gold rings etc. Statements of

witnesses were recorded. After necessary investigation, challan

against the accused was presented before the Court. On presentation of challan, copies of challan and other
 Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [7] documents were supplied to accused under Section 207 Cr.P.C.

Finding a prima facie case against the accused, they were charge-

sheeted for the offences punishable under Sections 302 read with Section 34 , 201 and 387 read with Section 34 IPC to which they

pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. The prosecution, in support of its case, examined PW1

Sachin, who has not supported the prosecution version and turned

hostile. PW2 Suresh Kumar mainly deposed that about one year

ago, Sahil son of Onkar Chaudhary came to his workshop for

repairing of his car. At about 3/4:00 p.m., he left the car in his

workshop and went away. Sahil gave a slip to him whereupon a

telephone number was mentioned. He asked him to give a ring on

that number after repair of the car. After sometime, Bittu, person of

Onkar Chaudhary, came to him and he (PW2) gave that slip to him.

He did not give that slip to the police. This witness did not support

the prosecution case further and was declared hostile. PW3 EASI

Ishwar Singh mainly deposed that on 05.07.2005, ASI Dushyant

Kumar handed over a car bearing registration No.HR-12-C-9469 to

him which was taken into police possession. He further deposed that

on 23.07.2005, he handed over that car alongwith registration

certificate to Inspector Om Parkash, SHO, Police Station Civil Line,

Hisar. PW4 ASI Karnail Singh mainly deposed that on 05.07.2005,

he was posted as Finger Print Expert. On that day, he was called by

ASI Dushyant Kumar. Thereafter, he went to Government Hospital,
 Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [8] Hisar. A Maruti car bearing registration No.HR-12-C-9469 was lying

parked in the parking of the said hospital. After examining the car, he

gave his report Ex.P7. After applying suitable graphite powder, he

developed the chance prints on several parts of the car. PW5 Atam

Parkash, Contractor of parking of Government Hospital, Hisar, mainly

deposed that in the year 2005, he was having contract of parking of

vehicles at General Hospital, Hisar. A Maruti van remained standing

in the said parking for the whole night. He went to his house at 5:00

p.m. and when he came back to the parking spot next morning at

about 7:00 a.m., a police official was standing near that vehicle. This

witness (PW5) also did not support the prosecution version and was

declared hostile. In cross-examination, he stated that he told the

police that Maruti car was parked and not Maruti van. PW6 Head

Constable Sakattar Singh, PW7 Constable Om Parkash, PW8 Head

Constable Jagdish Parshad and PW9 Constable Krishan Kumar are

the formal witnesses, who tendered into evidence their affidavits

Ex.P11 to Ex.P14 respectively. PW10 Subhash Chander,

Draftsman, mainly deposed regarding preparing of scaled site plans

Ex.P15 and Ex.P16. PW11 Sub Inspector Bhoop Singh, who was

posted at Police Station Sadar, Hisar on 22.06.2005, mainly deposed

regarding recording the statement of Amir Singh and conducting the

inquest proceedings etc. PW12 Amir Singh mainly deposed as per

prosecution version. PW13 Sub Inspector Sajjan Singh is a formal

witness, who tendered into evidence his affidavit Ex.P23. PW14
 Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [9] Inspector Azad Singh mainly deposed regarding recording the

statements of Subhash Chander, Draftsman, ASI Karnail Singh,

Finger Print Expert, Constable Om Parkash, MHC Sakattar Singh

and Constable Shiv Charan under Sections 161 Cr.P.C. He further

deposed regarding preparing of report under Section 173 Cr.P.C.

PW15 Onkar Chaudhary, complainant, father of deceased Sahil,

deposed as per prosecution version. PW16 Subhash Gaba, Sub

Divisional Officer (Civil), mainly deposed that on 06.07.2005 he was

called by the police near Sewak Sabha Hospital, Hisar regarding

taking of blood sample of Onkar Chaudhary and Santosh by

Dr.J.R.Verma, Pathological, Government Hospital, Hisar.

Dr.J.R.Verma took four blood samples each of Onkar Chaudhary and

Santosh. All the blood samples were converted into parcels and he

(PW16) affixed his seal on it and the same were taken into police

possession vide memo Ex.P32. PW17 ASI Nafe Singh (Retd.) is a

formal witness, who tendered into evidence his affidavit Ex.P33.

PW18 ASI Miya Singh, photographer, mainly deposed regarding

clicking of photographs of chance print developed by ASI Karnail

Singh. PW19 ASI Dushyant Kumar, mainly deposed regarding taking

into police possession Maruti car bearing registration No.HR-12-

C9469 from the parking vide recovery memo Ex.P34 under Section

102 Cr.P.C. He further deposed that Atam Parkash, Contractor, told

him that two young boys had left the said car in the parking without

taking receipt. PW20 ASI Raj Kumar mainly deposed regarding
 Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [10] joining of investigation of this case with Inspector Om Parkash. He

further deposed regarding recording of disclosure statements of

accused Surender and Bhal Singh and preparing of demarcation

memos Ex.P37 to Ex.P39. PW21 Head Constable Yudhvir Singh

also deposed regarding the investigation of this case. He deposed

that on 04.07.2005, he was posted in Special Cell at Lodhi Colony,

Delhi. On that day, in case FIR No.102 of 2005, he arrested accused

Surender Bishnoi. Similarly, in case FIR No.103 of 2005, he arrested

accused Bhal Singh. Both the accused suffered disclosure

statements and in para No.8 of their disclosure statements, they

disclosed the facts regarding this case. On the basis of disclosure

statements of both the accused, photograph Ex.P43 of Sahil was

recovered from the purse of Surender Bishnoi accused and the same

was taken into police possession vide recovery memo Ex.P45. Two

mobile phones were recovered from the possession of accused

Surender Bishnoi which were also taken into police possession vide

recovery memo Ex.P46. Two mobile phones were also recovered

from the possession of Bhal Singh and the same were taken into

police possession vide recovery memo Ex.P51. Out of these mobile

phones, one mobile phone No.9416216688 belongs to Sahil

(deceased) as told by Bhal Singh. PW22 Inspector Partap Singh

deposed regarding partly investigation conducted by him in this case

and regarding recording of statements of MMHC Jagdish Chander

and ASI Sajjan Kumar under Section 161 Cr.P.C. PW23 Dr.Jagdish
 Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [11] Rai Verma mainly deposed that on 06.07.2005 he was posted as

Medical Officer, General Hospital, Hisar. On that day, on the

application moved by the police, which was marked to him by the

Civil Surgeon Hisar, he alongwith Subhash Chander, Sub Divisional

Magistrate and other police officials, went to the house of Onkar

Chaudhary which was situated near Sewak Sabha Hospital and took

four samples each of Onkar Chaudhary and Santosh Devi for DNA

examination. PW24 Parveen Kumar mainly deposed that he is

owner of car No.HR-12-C-9469 which was stolen from Rohtak in the

month of June, 2005. Lateron, he came to know that his car was

parked in Police Station Sadar, Hisar and he got it released on

superdari. In cross-examination, he deposed that his car was stolen

on 13.06.2005 and he got registered an FIR at Rohtak. Police told

him about the recovery of his car in the month of July, 2005. PW25

Constable Shiv Karan mainly deposed regarding delivery of special

reports to Ilaqa Magistrate etc. PW26 Dr. Luv Kumar Sharma mainly

deposed that on 22.06.2005, Police station Sadar, Hisar moved an

application Ex.P64 alongwith a badly burnt body of which only

fragmentary remains were present. Identification of the body could

not be done, so the same was referred to PGIMS, Rohtak for the

opinion of Forensic Expert and for taking DNA sample. He mainly

deposed regarding conducting of postmortem examination on the

said burnt dead body. As per his opinion, the dead body was of

young adult male individual. The cause of death was kept pending
 Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [12] subject to result of chemical analysis of viscera. Head injury was

ante-mortem in nature. The probable time that elapsed between the

death and postmortem was between three to five days volunteered it

could be dated 18.06.2005. He also stated that he had sent clavicle

bone for DNA analysis and as per DNA report Ex.P67, the DNA

profile of the source of Ex.A (bones said to be the clavicle of the

deceased) matches with DNA profile of the source of Ex.B and Ex.C

(blood samples of Smt.Santosh Devi and Sh.Onkar Chaudhary). The

DNA test performed on the exhibits provided is sufficient to conclude

that the source of Ex.A (bones) is from the biological offspring of the

source of Ex.B and Ex.C. PW27 Inspector Ramesh Kumar is the

Investigating Officer. He mainly deposed regarding partly

investigation conducted by him in this case. PW28 DSP Om Parkash

is also the Investigating officer in this case. He mainly deposed

regarding part investigation conducted by him in this case. Public

Prosecutor, after tendering into evidence Forensic Science

Laboratory report Ex.P70, closed the prosecution evidence. At the close of prosecution evidence, the accused were

examined under Section 313 Cr.P.C. and confronted with the

evidence of prosecution. The accused denied the correctness of the

evidence and pleaded themselves as innocent. They also deposed

that they have been falsely implicated on wrong information against

them. Police has collected false and inadmissible evidence. They

have no concern with the alleged crime. Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [13] No evidence was led in defence. The trial Court, after appreciation of evidence, convicted

and sentenced both the appellants-accused as stated above. At the time of arguments, learned counsel for the

appellants contended that it is a case of circumstantial evidence and

prosecution has failed to connect the accused with the crime. There

is no cogent evidence on the record to prove the guilt of the accused

in this case. A reasonable doubt exists in the prosecution version.

Accused are innocent and have been falsely implicated in this case.

Learned counsel for the appellants further contended that the

disclosure statements made by the accused at Delhi are inadmissible

in evidence being confession before the police. As per the statement

of Dr. Luv Kumar Sharma (PW26), the age of the person (burnt dead

body) was 25 to 40 years whereas as per prosecution case, Sahil

(deceased) was 16 years old. Learned counsel for the appellants

next contended that no call details have been brought on record to

connect the accused with the crime. Therefore, the present appeal

should be accepted and the appellants should be acquitted

accordingly. On the other hand, learned Addl. Advocate General,

Haryana, contended that the case of the prosecution has been duly

proved on the basis of disclosure statements made by the accused,

during their interrogation in the case registered at Delhi. They were

nominated in this case after getting the report of DNA test and till
 Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [14] then nobody was knowing whether Sahil was murdered or not.

Learned Addl. Advocate General, Haryana further contended that

there is sufficient evidence on record to connect the accused with the

crime. The mere difference of age, as stated by doctor, at the most

can be treated as the opinion of the doctor. The DNA test is a

perfect science and its report cannot be doubted. Learned Addl.

Advocate General, Haryana further contended that the mobile phone

belonging to Sahil (deceased), who was kidnapped, has been

recovered from the accused vide recovery memo Ex.P51 which has

been duly proved by PW21 Head Constable Yudhvir Singh.

Therefore, the appeal having no merit should be dismissed. We have heard learned counsel for the appellants and

learned Addl. Advocate General, Haryana and with their assistance,

we have gone through the evidence on record minutely and carefully. From the evidence on record, we find that it is a case of

circumstantial evidence and chain of circumstances should be

complete and there should not be any missing links. It is settled law

that in the case of circumstantial evidence if all the facts and

circumstances put together, it should form a complete chain pointing

towards the guilt of accused only and none else. From the evidence

on record, we find cogent evidence on record, produced by the

prosecution, to connect the accused with the crime. The contentions

of learned counsel for the appellants that appellants are innocent and

have been falsely implicated in this case have no merit. As per
 Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [15] prosecution evidence, Sahil (deceased), minor son of Onkar

Chaudhary (PW15), was kidnapped on 21.06.2005 when he went to

get his car repaired. PW2 Suresh Kumar though has not supported

the prosecution version in toto but he supported this version that

Sahil son of Onkar Chaudhary came to his workshop for repair of his

car and at about 3/4:00 p.m. he left the car in his workshop and went

away. PW2 Suresh Kumar has also stated that Sahil gave a slip to

him whereupon a telephone number was mentioned and he asked

him to give a ring on this number after the car was repaired. In

cross-examination by the Public Prosecutor, he has stated that he

has seen the slip Ex.P1 whereupon two telephone numbers are

mentioned. In cross-examination, he admitted his signatures on the

recovery memo Ex.P3 of said slip. He also deposed that his

signatures on recovery memo Ex.P3 of slip were obtained at his

shop. He further deposed in cross-examination that mobile phone

numbers on slip Ex.P1 were mentioned by Sahil. On the slip Ex.P1,

two mobile phone numbers have been mentioned, one is

9416216688 which is of Sahil (deceased) and other is 9812035611,

which is written to be of Surender. We have seen this slip Ex.P1 very

carefully. The name and numbers are appeared to be written with

the same ink, in the same flow and at the same time. This slip Ex.P1

has been duly proved by PW2 Suresh Kumar and the same was

taken into police possession vide recovery memo Ex.P3 which bears

the signatures of PW2 Suresh Kumar. Even in the application given
 Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [16] by Onkar Chaudhary (PW15) on 22.06.2005 which was addressed to

SHO, Police Station, Civil Line, Hisar, there is mention of the fact that

when the applicant-complainant inquired from Suresh Kumar,

Mechanic (PW2), he told him that Sahil had given him a slip on which

mobile phone numbers 9812035611 and 9416216688 were written

and asked him to call him on those numbers if any necessity arises.

This fact proves two things firstly, at the time of kidnapping, Sahil

(deceased) was having this mobile phone No.9416216688. Again

this fact is further supported and corroborated by the averments that

Sahil rang up from this telephone number and told his mother while

weeping that he had been kidnapped. Therefore, this is the first

circumstance that in Ex.P1, name of Surender has been mentioned

alongwith mobile phone number which means that Surender had

called him on telephone. The second circumstance connecting the

accused with the crime is that accused were arrested on 04.07.2005

at Delhi in case FIR No.102 and 103 of 2005. At that time, the said

mobile phone number i.e. 9416216688, which belonged to Sahil,

was recovered from the accused and taken into police possession

vide recovery memo Ex.P51. We have seen the original recovery

memo Ex.P51 and this mobile phone number has been mentioned in

it. There is no explanation how this mobile phone came into

possession of the accused. In no way, it can be held that this mobile

phone has been planted upon the accused by Delhi police because

at the time of arrest of these accused at Delhi, it was not in the notice
 Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [17] of anybody that Sahil has been murdered. The next circumstance

which connects the accused with the crime is that the appellants-

accused have been nominated in the present case only on the basis

of their disclosure statements, recorded during interrogation, before

Delhi police. Admittedly, those disclosure statements are

inadmissible in evidence and on the basis of same, accused cannot

be convicted. However, to connect the chain of circumstances as to

how these accused are nominated in this case, this fact can be

looked into. On the basis of these disclosure statements, the blood

samples of Onkar Chaudhary and Santosh Devi, parents of

deceased Sahil, were taken in the presence of Subhash Chander,

Sub Divisional Officer (Civil) and the said samples and bones of Sahil

(deceased) were sent for DNA test. As per Dr. Luv Kumar Sharma

(PW26), the DNA report shows that the bone of Sahil (deceased) is

matched with the blood samples of his parents and he was held as

offspring of Santosh and Onkar Chaudhary. In other words, from the

interrogation of the accused, this fact came to the notice that Sahil's

body was burnt in the cotton sticks in the field of Amir Singh in village

Gorchhi. Furthermore, when the appellants-accused were

interrogated, they demarcated the places from where they kidnapped

Sahil and also where they burnt his dead body. These demarcation

memos are admissible in evidence as these facts have been

discovered in consequence of information received from a person.

Both these accused also demarcated the place where the stolen car
 Criminal Appeal No.D-484-DB of 2009 [18] was parked by them. All these facts point towards the guilt of the

accused only and none else. As regarding the discrepancy regarding the age, we find

that there is direct evidence/deposition of Onkar Chaudhary that

Sahil was of 16 years old and if the doctor has given the age

between 25 to 40 years, the statement of Onkar Chaudhary will be

believed and the opinion of the doctor is not binding and this fact also

in no way creates any reasonable doubt in the prosecution version.

From the evidence on record, we find that if finger print report has not

been proved by the prosecution, it in no way creates any doubt as

there is other cogent evidence on record to prove the guilt of the

accused. Chain of circumstances is complete, pointing towards the

guilt of accused only and none else. Therefore, from the evidence on record, we find that the

prosecution has duly proved its case by leading cogent evidence.

As such, the judgment of conviction and order of sentence passed

against the appellants are upheld and the appeal, having no merit, is

dismissed.