1. This petition has been filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of
 India read with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for
 short, " Cr.P.C .") with the following prayers:- 2. Mr. Bhoopendra Singh, learned counsel for the petitioner, submitted
 that the police, namely, the respondents No.1 to 7, were coming to his
 residence under the cover of investigations and were subjecting the
 petitioner and his family to harassment. It was submitted that an incident
 had taken place at Jahangir Puri on 16th April, 2022 and the police were
 seeking to allege that he and his family members had been somehow
 involved in the same. However, it is the case of the petitioner that his
 father had expired on 14th April, 2022 and according to Muslim rites and
 customs, Teeja of his late father was performed on 16th April, 2022, which
 started at around 12 noon to 11 p.m. near Eidgah C-Block, Jahangir Puri,
 Delhi. The petitioner's entire family, including his five sons, were involved
 in these rites. 500 persons were invited and at about 6:45 p.m., Roza Iftar
 was also arranged. Unfortunately, on the same day, at about 6 p.m., a
 commotion erupted in which, there was pelting of stones between two
 communities. On 17th April, 2022, at about 3 a.m., the police from Police
 Station Jahangir Puri came to the house of the petitioner's eldest son and
 picked him up and subsequently, he was sent to judicial custody, on
 allegations of being involved in the Jahangir Puri riots. 3. The learned counsel emphasized repeatedly that the petitioner, as a
 citizen of this country, had the Fundamental Right to live with dignity and
 fearlessly, as assured under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Therefore, it was submitted that the police be restrained from harassing
 him and his family. 4. Mr. Rajesh Mahajan, learned Additional Standing Counsel for the
 State, relied on the Status Report filed and placed on the record under
 Index No.880331, to submit that the police was only investigating the
 Jahangir Puri Riots, which took place on 16th April, 2022. According to the
 learned ASC, on 16th April, 2022, Inspector Rajeev Ranjan, PS Jahangir
 Puri along with his staff was deployed for security arrangement in the area
 in connection with a procession on the eve of Hanuman Jayanti. The
 procession was proceeding peacefully till it reached Jama Masjid, C-Block,
 Jahangir Puri at around 6 p.m., when a person named Ansar came there
 and started arguing with the members of the procession. Several of his
 associates also came to the spot and joined Ansar and arguments
 culminated in stone pelting and stampede. Additional force was called to
 control the situation and senior police officers also reached the spot. The
 mob went out of control and 52 tear gas shells had to be fired. The rioters
 were armed with deadly weapons, including fire arms, swords, etc., and
 they caused injuries to as many as 8 police officers, including SI Meda Lal,
 who sustained a bullet injury on his left forearm, due to firing by the
 rioters. Another civilian, who was part of the procession, also sustained
 injuries. The rioters damaged vehicles and set a Scooty on fire. 5. As a result, FIR No.440/2022 was registered at P.S. Jahangir Puri on
 the basis of the statement of Inspector Rajeev Ranjan under Sections
 147 / 148 / 149 / 186 / 353 / 332 / 307 / 323 / 427 / 436 IPC and Section 27 of the
 Arms Act and subsequently Sections 109 , 120B and 34 IPC and Section 25 Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 937/2022 Page 3 of 7 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:02.06.2022 15:56:41 of the Arms Act were also added. The investigations were transferred to
 the Crime Branch. The learned ASC submitted that during investigations, a
 large number of people have been identified indulging in rioting, wielding
 swords, waving and using firearms, pelting stones and glass bottles and as
 on 12th May, 2022, 34 persons and 3 CCLs have been apprehended. Others
 were absconding, including the petitioner and his son Ashnoor. NBWs
 have been issued against them. 6. It was further submitted that in the course of the investigations and
 questioning of people already apprehended, it has been revealed that the
 petitioner was one of the main conspirators and perpetrators of the entire
 incident and was evading the process of law. It was the petitioner who was
 actively involved in aggravating the situation and instigating his
 community in pelting stones, bottles, and attacking the Hanuman Jayanti
 procession with firearms, swords, bricks, bottles and other weapons. He
 spread the message amongst the local residents and his community to
 accumulate stones, brick-pieces, glass bottles, swords and other arms, to be
 used at an appropriate time. The petitioner had hatched deep conspiracy to
 disturb the communal harmony of the country. It was further submitted
 that the FSL team found bricks, glass, ceramic pieces, and seized them
 from the terrace of H.No.C-51, Jahangir Puri, belonging to the petitioner,
 apart from other places. 7. Learned ASC further submitted that in the garb of the present
 petition, the petitioner was actually seeking anticipatory bail, which was
 not permissible. 8. I have heard the submissions and have perused the material on
 record. The petition has been filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of
 India and Section 482 Cr.P.C. probably to get over the hump of the limited
 scope under Section 482 Cr.P.C. to issue any orders especially on the lines
 prayed for in the petition. Be that as it may, this Court finds no reason to
 issue any directions in exercise of its powers under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India, in view of the Status Report filed by the
 respondent/State disclosing that the police were only investigating into the
 offences committed for which FIR No.440/2022 has been registered. As
 has been observed by the Judicial Committee in King-Emporer v. Khwaja
 Nazir Ahmad, AIR 1945 PC 18, and reiterated by the Supreme Court in State of West Bengal and Ors. v. Sampat Lal and Ors. , (1985) 1 SCC 317,
 the functions of the Judiciary and Police are complementary and each must
 be allowed to exercise its own function, with due observance of law and
 order and a concern for individual liberty. 9. Again, in State of Bihar v. J.A.C. Saldanha , (1980) 2 SCR 16, the
 Supreme Court reiterated that there was a clear-cut and well-demarcated
 sphere of activity in the field of crime detection and crime punishment.
 Investigation of an offence is the exclusive field of the police. The police
 have a duty to keep vigilance over the law-and-order situation and to
 prevent crimes. If an offence is alleged to have been committed, it is its
 bounden duty to investigate into the offences and bring the offender to
 book. It is also duty bound to collect evidence for the purposes of proving
 the offence. Adjudication would come only after a Final Report is
 submitted to the court. While these observations were made, no doubt, in Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 937/2022 Page 5 of 7 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:02.06.2022 15:56:41 regard to the question whether the court could guide investigations, these
 observations are apposite to the present matter. 10. The police have reported that offences had been committed on 16th
 April, 2022 near Jama Masjid, C-Block, Jahangir Puri. Weapons were
 used. Police are investigating the role of each person and they have found
 leads pointing out to the deep involvement of the petitioner. The petitioner
 admits that he had been present with 500 people at the Eidgah C-Block,
 Jahangir Puri, though for some other reason, namely, the Teeja rites for his
 late father. The FSL has found material at his terrace. The older son has
 already been arrested. 11. In these facts and circumstances, it is evident that the petitioner has
 moved this petition to thwart investigations. The court cannot allow itself
 to be used in such a fashion, which may lead to interference with the
 investigations, and which has been always frowned upon by the courts. 12. In the light of the facts and circumstances, as noted hereinabove, this
 does not appear to be a case in which the police have contacted the
 petitioner and his family only with ill-motives to harass them. The police
 have to find out who were the perpetrators of the various offences
 committed on 16th April, 2022 and as a citizen of this country, it is only to
 be expected that while the petitioner seeks enforcement of his Fundamental
 Rights, he would also do his duties and help the police resolve the crime
 and apprehend the perpetrators. 13. As rightly pointed out by the learned ASC for the State, this petition
 appears to be of a phishing kind, seeking anticipatory bail, in the garb of
 directions to the police not to harass the petitioner and his family. 14. There is no merit whatsoever in the present petition, which is
 dismissed. For abundant measure, it is recorded that the observations made
 in this order are only for the purposes of disposal of the present petition. 15. The petition stands disposed of, along with the pending application. 16. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith. (ASHA MENON)
 JUDGE
 JUNE 02, 2022
 s Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 937/2022 Page 7 of 7 Digitally Signed By:MANJEET KAUR Signing Date:02.06.2022 15:56:41