1. It is an Appeal, under Section 57 of Information Technology Act, 2000,

 against Order, dated, 25.02.2013 of Learned Adjudicating Officer,

 Maharashtra, passed in Complaint No. 4 of 2011, by Punjab National

 Bank (PNB), through its Chief Manager, against M/s Poona Auto

 Ancillaries Private Limited, Respondent No.1, Complainant of the 2 complaint before Learned Adjudicating Officer, a company registered

 under the Companies Act 1956, having its registered Office, at Plot No.

 79, T- Block, MIDC, Bhosari, Pune, maintaining an Account No.

 0278008700000318, with the PNB Branch Office, Kirkee, Pune, which

 is a Branch Office of Appellant Bank. 2. In brief, the contention of memo of Appeal is that the Learned

 Adjudicating Officer was with no territorial jurisdiction, or subject

 matter jurisdiction, but had passed impugned order, under Appeal.

 Complainant, Respondent No.1, is alleged to be a victim of phishing

 attack, and had filed its complaint on 09.11.2011, before Learned

 Adjudicating Officer, Maharashtra, impleading various branches of

 PNB, namely Head Office, New Delhi, Kirkee (Pune), Kathua (Jammu &

 Kashmir), Mulund (Mumbai), Bhavnagar (Gujarat) and Vyara (Gujarat),

 alleging contravention of Section 43 , 43A & 46 of the Information

 Technology Act, 2000. This complaint was got investigated by

 Respondent No. 2, i.e., Cyber Crime Cell, Crime Division, Khadki Police

 Station, Pune wherein, after receiving notice from investigation wing,

 the Appellant extended its full cooperation, in above investigation. 3. The Complainant had claimed damages in the tune of Rs. 80,10,000/-

 (Rupees Eighty Lakhs Ten Thousand Only), on account of alleged 3 fraudulent net banking transactions, from the appellant's Bank

branches. A summon, as per Section 58(2)(a) of Information

Technology Act, 2000, issued by Learned Adjudicating Officer, on

24.11.2011, was received by Appellant, wherein, reply was filed with

specific denial of the infringement of Section 43 and 43A , of

Information Technology Act, 2000. During the course of internal

investigation by PNB, a trace of the fraudulent transaction was held.

An amount in the tune of Rs. 35 Lakhs were got frozen and credited

into the complainant's account, which in fact was Rs. 35,71,356/-

(Rupees Thirty Five Lakhs Seventy One Thousand Three Hundred and

Fifty Six Only). The details of the Statements were furnished before

Learned Adjudicating Officer. But, on 25.2.2013, Learned Adjudicating

Officer, Maharashtra, passed impugned order, directing PNB to pay

damages, to the tune of Rs. 45 Lakhs, by way of compensation to the

Complainant, to partially cover his loss and costs. Whereas, Learned

Adjudicating Officer had held the Complainant herein, Respondent

No.1, negligent of being careless in sharing his password and

admitting responding to a phishing email. A stricture against Cyber

Crime Cell, Crime Division, Pune i.e., Respondent No.2, was also there

in the order. 4. Hence, as the impugned order had been passed without taking into

 consideration, the terms and conditions of Internet Banking Service,

 accepted by the Complainant/Respondent No.1, wherein, it is clearly

 stated in clause 23 "Governing laws and jurisdiction" that both parties

 irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of courts, tribunals and forums

 at New Delhi. Hence, territorial jurisdiction was lacking with Learned

 Adjudicating Officer. 5. Rule 4 of the Information Technology (Qualification and Experience of

 Adjudicating Officers and Manner of Holding Enquiry), Rules 2003, has

 also been defianced. Computer Network servers of PNB are lying at

 Delhi and on the basis of this location at Delhi, the jurisdiction are to

 be of Courts of Delhi. Complainant itself had responded phishing mail.

 Thereby, had shared its password and account details, with the

 accountant of the Complainant Company and with his son. It again

 was against the terms and conditions entered, in between. It has been

 written in judgment itself, that the stricter and more effective security

 services, available with Punjab National Bank, were not availed by

 Complainant itself, and the investigation by Police was not made

 properly as well as of legitimate expectation. This appeal is with a

 prayer for setting aside the impugned judgment. 6. Reply of this memo was got filed by Complainant, Respondent No.1,

 that Appellant Bank failed to implement and maintained reasonable

 security practices and procedures, resulting consequential failure to

 prevent and adequately respond to a wrongful loss of Rs. 80,10,000/-

 (Rupees Eighty Lakhs Ten Thousand Only), caused to Complainant

 Respondent No.1, through a criminal breach of Respondent No.1's

 bank account, with the appellant Bank at Kirkee, Pune, in a crime

 involving, multiple security lapses, spread over various branches, and

 officials of the Appellant Bank across the country. There was defiance

 of the provision of Section 43A of the IT Act, 2000. There was failure of

 the Appellant Bank, to maintain reasonable security practices and

 procedures to avoid the said wrongful loss, and even there was failure

 to provide post-breach accountability and mechanism to help the

 investigating wing. Learned Adjudicating Officer was with territorial

 and subject jurisdiction and has rightly decided the matter. There is

 reiteration of contention of Complainant and denial of contention of

 memo of Appeal. 7. This was again replied by way of rejoinder of Appellant Bank, with the

 reiteration of contention of memo of Appeal, which was the

 contention of reply, before Learned Adjudicating Officer, with a denial

 of contention of Complainant. 8. Heard Learned Counsels for both side and gone through the facts on

 record. 9. The complaint, under Section 43 , 43A and 46 of Information

 Technology Act, 2000, was got filed by Poona Auto Ancillaries Private

 Ltd., through its authorized representative, Mr Manmohan Singh

 Matharu, Managing Director, against Punjab National Bank(PNB),

 Head Office, New Delhi and its branches through Branch Manager,

 qua the Respondent Nos. 1 to 6 of the Complaint, before Learned

 Adjudicating Officer at Mumbai. 10. Complainant had claimed damages amounting to Rs. 80,10,000/-

 (Rupees Eighty Lakhs Ten Thousand only), with interest @ 14.5%, from

 the date of complaint, till actual payment, including pendente lite and

 future interest, over above amount, from the Respondent Bank. The

 Complainant, a Private Limited Company, having its registered Office

 and factory at given address, manufactures auto components.

 Whereas, Respondent No.1, is a prominent Nationalized Bank in India,

 which apart from offering banking products, has also entered the

 credit and debit card, bullion business, asset management business,

 etc. Respondent No. 2 to 6, are it's Branch Offices, for the purpose of 7 its banking businesses. A computer resource is owned, controlled and

 used to operate by it, in performance of its business activities. 11. Complainant was in relation of its banking activities with Respondent

 No.2, for last 33 years and was holding a Cash Credit account, in its

 branch at Kirkee, Pune, bearing account No. 0278008700000318,

 availing its cash credit facility, with terms of 14.5% per annum interest

 rate. Upon the request of complainant, Respondent No.2 activated

 online banking facility, in above account in favour of complainant. The

 requisite precaution with regard to password, login password,

 transaction password with due diligence and security was to be

 observed by complainant. The login password and transaction

 password with regard to online transaction were never compromised,

 but all security measures were taken by complainant, by using

 licensed version of antivirus operating system and all such other

 security measures which are required for online transactions. That on

 23.08.2011, some unknown persons had an unauthorised access to

 the Respondent's Computer system and penetrated into

 complainant's above account with Respondent No.2. Whereby, got

 transferred an amount of Rs. 80,10,000/- (Rupees Eighty Lakhs Ten

 Thousand Only), unauthorizedly. 12. It came to notice of complainant on 24.08.2011, which was

 immediately informed to Respondent No.2, with lodging of a

 compliant with the Police of Khadki Police Station, Pune, on

 25.08.2011. In pursuance of which, an offence has been registered, as

 Crime No. 103/2011, for offences punishable, under Section 420 of

 Indian Penal Code, read with Section 66C , 66D of the IT Act 2000,

 against unknown persons, wherein, investigation was got made.

 During the course of investigation, it was revealed that the amount,

 which was illegally siphoned off from the Complainant's account was

 transferred to one account 744002100016515 of Sutlej Textile Ltd.,

 Kathua, in the Respondent's Bank at Kathua, Jammu and Kashmir

 Branch, i.e., Respondent No.3, from where the amount was

 withdrawn, by someone in the tune of Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees Two

 Lakhs Only), in one transaction, and in all, 40 such transactions, with

 one another transaction, of Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand Only),

 in quick succession. But, it was not taken notice by Bank branch. The

 money siphoned in the tune of Rs. 80,10,000/- (Rupees Eighty Lakhs

 Ten Thousand Only), from Complainant's account, was distributed to

 various accounts of Punjab National Bank only. Then the amount was

 transferred to Punjab National Bank, Mulund Branch, Mumbai,

 Respondent No.4, in Account No.1277002100020819, an amount of 9 Rs. 40,00,000/- (Rupees Forty Lakhs Only), Punjab National Bank,

 Bhavnagar, Gujarat, Respondent No.5, an amount of Rs. 20,00,000/-

 (Rupees Twenty Lakhs Only), Punjab National Bank, Vyara, Gujarat,

 Respondent No.6, Rs. 20,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty Lakhs Only). From

 those branches, money was further transacted, with other accounts

 given in the complaint, including Rs. 4,91,000/- (Rupees Four Lakhs

 Ninety One Thousand Only), withdrawn as cash. Complainant had

 never made the aforesaid transactions. But, the Respondent had

 failed at their instance to intimate the Complainant, or never made

 any attempt to contact the complainant, regarding the aforesaid

 transactions, which were unusual. Unauthorised access by a third

 party to the Computer network of Punjab National Bank, is apparently,

 a failure on the part of bank, in exercise of its reasonable security

 practices and protection of data of their customers. 13. The Respondents were holding and handling sensitive data/

 information of Complainant in Respondent's Computer system or

 Computer Network/resource, which were in control and operating the

 Computer system and Computer network. But, due diligence

 regarding security of same was not taken by it, and as a result of

 negligence, in implementing and maintaining, reasonable security

 measures and practices, according to Internet Banking in India 10 Guidelines, laid by RBI, in DBOD. COMP. BC No. 130/07.03.23/2000-01

 on June 2001, and thereby, had caused wrongful loss to the

 Complainant, to the tune of Rs. 80,10,000/- (Rupees Eighty Lakhs Ten

 Thousand only). The adherence with KYC in the Master Circular on

 KYC, was also not made by Bank in opening of those accounts, from

 which siphoned money was transacted. 14. Hence, a prayer was there for payment of damages, by way of

 compensation of an amount in the tune of Rs. 80,10,000/- (Rupees

 Eighty Lakhs Ten Thousand Only), for wrongful loss, caused to the

 Complainant, with a further prayer of interest @ 14.5% per annum,

 pendente lite and future, and providing cost for this litigation. 15. A reply to it, was filed by Punjab National Bank mentioning the non-

 maintainability of this complaint, under Section 43 of Information

 Technology Act, because of having no territorial, or subject matter

 jurisdiction in the matter, because the Complainant itself had signed

 an agreement with a provision of jurisdiction, if any, of the Court and

 Tribunal at New Delhi. Complainant itself fell prey to an email sent by

 some unknown source, whereas, PNB have all policies and checks in

 place and that periodic penetration testing has been done by KPMG.

 RBI guidelines on KYC have been properly complied with. Complainant 11 itself had not taken the facilities, for corporate account, like

 monitoring and management of account, workflow and authorization

 levels, user profiles etc., and was using only Single User ID. 16. Punjab National Bank had responded actively and helped the

 customer to freeze money in account of three (3) Banks, total in the

 tune of Rs. 34,04,000/- (Rupees Thirty Four Lakhs Four Thousand

 Only). Vide Interim order, dated 09.12.2011, the Office had asked PNB

 to transfer this frozen amount of Rs. 34.04 Lakhs to the Complainant,

 which was subsequently done by the Bank. In fact, the investigation

 report submitted by Chief Manager, Cyber Crime Monitoring Cell, IT

 Division, Head Office of PNB says that the Bank has reversed funds to

 the tune of Rs. 37,64,675/- (Rupees Thirty Seven Lakhs Sixty Four

 Thousand, Six Hundred Seventy Five Only) to the customer. Hence, the

 pro-consumer step taken by Bank is to be appreciated. 17. Learned Adjudicating Officer, after hearing both sides, had passed

 Impugned Order, whereby, Punjab National Bank had been directed to

 pay damages to the Complainant in the tune of Rs. 45,00,000/-

 (Rupees Forty Five Lakhs Only), by way of compensation, for partially

 covering the loss and cost of the Complaint. For rest of the amount, 12 Complainant was to bear, because of his own negligence in keeping

 secret login password and password etc. 18. Learned Counsel for the Complainant had not filed any appeal, for its

 compensation, in view of the Complaint made before Learned

 Adjudicating Officer or the finding of Learned Adjudicating Officer,

 wherein the negligence of the Complainant itself was held to be there.

 Rather, this Appeal is by Bank only, who were the opposite parties in

 the Complaint, because of being the Head Office of Punjab National

 Bank and its six (6) branches out of which, Respondent No.2 was

 Punjab National Bank, Kirkee, Pune, where the account was being

 maintained, and the other Respondent Nos.3 to 6, are the branches of

 Punjab National Bank, wherein the amount siphoned was transferred,

 from where it were transacted and withdrawn. Hence, the appeal is

 only by Punjab National Bank, and the same is against the award of a

 partial amount, in the tune of Rs. 45,00,000/- (Rupees Forty Five Lakhs

 Only). There is no award of interest, either pendente lite or future.

 Rather, it was said to be borne by Complainant itself. Hence, to pin

 point the dispute before this Appellate forum, is the lack of

 jurisdiction, territorial as well as subject matter and adherence of KYC

 norms and RBI Guidelines regarding Net Banking by Punjab National

 Bank, but failure by Complainant itself. 19. The jurisdiction was raised before Learned Adjudicating Officer. But

 the categorical finding by Learned Adjudicating Officer, is of this fact

 that by opening account with Punjab National Bank at its branch

 Kirkee at Pune, standard form of contract, prescribing jurisdiction of

 New Delhi territory, was written in it. Whereas, Punjab National Bank

 is PAN India Bank, a nationalized Bank, and having its branches across

 India, wherein the account was being run, maintained and controlled

 at Kirkee branch, Pune. Hence, whatever transaction occurred, what

 were the grievances, were regarding this branch itself. The other

 branches were the branches, from where money was transacted and

 siphoned. Hence, it can never be held, that leaving behind jurisdiction

 of territory of all those branches, only Delhi is having the jurisdiction.

 Learned Adjudicating Officer had rightly held that there was territorial

 jurisdiction of its Adjudicating Authority, at Government of State of

 Maharashtra. There is nothing on record, establishing against this

 finding. 20. So, far as subject matter dispute is concerned, the undisputed facts

 are of opening and operation of current account of Complainant's firm

 in branch of Punjab National Bank at Kirkee, Pune, and withdrawal as

 well as siphoning of money by a fraudster from that branch by use of

 Computer resource and Computer network unauthorizedly by 14 fraudster is there. The Computer, its resource, its network, being

 owned, controlled and operated by Bank concerned, is not under

 question or dispute. Hence, in view of many Judgments delivered by

 this Tribunal, by exercising this jurisdiction of Cyber Appellate

 Tribunal, have held the subject matter to be under jurisdiction of

 Learned Adjudicating Authority. Nothing against it, could be shown by

 Learned Counsel for Appellant. Hence, the finding of Learned

 Adjudicating Officer, with regard to jurisdiction, territorial, as well as

 subject matter is well accordance with law and precedent. 21. Learned Adjudicating Officer has observed the pro-consumer help

 steps, taken by Punjab National Bank and the recovery and then

 revert back of a substantial portion of money, illegally siphoned is

 there, and this was because of the pro- consumer step taken by Bank. 22. The argument advanced by Learned Counsel for Appellant, was taken

 into account by Learned Adjudicating Officer by not awarding interest

 or holding Complainant itself liable, for not maintaining and keeping

 secret of login and transaction password, resulting illegal transaction.

 Hence, Learned Adjudicating Officer has rightly appreciated facts and

 law, placed before it. There is nothing on record to make any

 reasonable ground to interfere with the finding of impugned judgment 15 of Learned Adjudicating Officer, except one aspect that Learned

Adjudicating Officer in its finding had casted stricture against

investigation by Cyber Crime Cell of Police and there is a specific

direction to Head of the Cyber Cell to make follow up of investigation

in this case in following words : Meaning thereby, the investigation has yet not ended. Rather,

Learned Adjudicating Officer has directed Commissioner of Police,

Pune to look at his personal level and got the matter investigated by

an Officer of DCP rank in-charge. Hence, if the matter is being

investigated, the persons who have been put behind the bars, in its

previous investigation, against whom charge-sheet is said to have

been filed, criminal proceedings are still pending, and in further 16 investigation, if any, other are being apprehended, or some recovery

 in particular crime case happens, then the Punjab National Bank will

 be entitled to have that amount got received back from this crime

 sequence. Meaning thereby, Punjab National Bank is to make the

 payment in the tune of Rs. 45,00,000/- (Rupees Forty Five Lakhs Only),

 ordered by Learned Adjudicating Officer, for above offence of

 unauthorized siphoning of amount, from the Bank account of

 Complainant, and in case of recovery of that one, by Cyber Crime

 Police Cell, or in view of judgment of Tribunal or Court, in the case

 time of the present matter, the money, to be recovered, is to be paid

 back to Punjab National Bank, who had made the payment to

 Complainant. 23. With above specific observation, this Appeal merits its dismissal. ORDER

 Appeal is being dismissed with above written observations to be

 obeyed in the eventuality of above circumstances. ............................ (Justice Ram Krishna Gautam)
 Member
19.11.2025
/NC/