Whether
				Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment ? To
				be referred to the Reporter or not ? Whether
				their Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the judgment ? Whether
				this case involves a substantial question of law as to the
				interpretation of the constitution of India, 1950 or any order
				made thereunder ? Whether
				it is to be circulated to the civil judge ? =================================================

 

SANJAY
C. PATEL & 6 - Petitioners
 

Versus
 

GUJARAT
URJA VIKAS NIGAM LTD. & 1 - Respondents
 

=================================================

 

Appearance
: RULE SERVED BY DS for Respondents : 1 - 2. MS LILU K
BHAYA for Respondent : 2 SCC 217 and contended that the respondent's act of confirming the
	present petitioners after withdrawing the original order of
	termination of 1998, which was also passed after considering the
	fact that the petitioners were allegedly not in service with the
	contractor at TPS, Gandhinagar, the respondent can not brush aside
	the requirement of holding inquiry as per the service rules and
	Chapter-8 of the Establishment Manual & Service Regulations on a
	specious plea of so called ab initio void employment. In the case
	cited also the Honourable Supreme Court observed that services of
	the even temporary government servant cannot be terminated
	arbitrarily if such termination is tainted with arbitrariness than
	authorities' such act would not be justified on the ground of it
	action being in accordance with the terms of employment. In the
	instant case after having confirmed the employees in light of the
	existing circumstances it was not open to the respondent to deny
	them the legitimate right to be subjected to the inquiry wherein
	they would get the right to defend themselves properly. Therefore
	not holding departmental inquiry in accordance with provision of
	Chapter-8 of Establishment Manual becomes arbitrary, capricious and
	render the order made pursuant thereto illegal. Shri
	Mishra has also relied upon the decision of the Apex Court in case
	of STATE OF M.P. AND OTHERS Vs. KESHAV , reported in (1996) 2 SCC 21
	and contended that in a given set of circumstance it was not open to
	the respondents to terminate petitioners' services without holding
	proper inquiry as envisaged under Service Regulations. The impugned
	order of termination is assailed only on the ground of not holding
	inquiry as directed by the Tribunal in its award dated 20/1/2007.
	Shri Mishra contended that the respondent was under duty to hold
	fulfledged inquiry before terminating the service and their right to
	defend themselves during the inquiry can not be curtailed. The
	impugned order dated 12/6/2007, which was passed without holding
	fulfledged inquiry as directed by the Tribunal can not be sustained
	and the same require to be quashed and set aside. Ms.
	Bhaya, learned counsel for the respondent and petitioner in Special
	Civil Application No. 17181 of 2007 has contended that the order
	passed by the Tribunal has not been challenged by the present
	petitioners and as per the order of the Tribunal dated 20/1/2007
	passed in Reference (IT) No. 25/2004, the Industrial Tribunal has
	observed as could be seen from page 56 that the respondent has the
	right to take action against the petitioners herein, therefore the
	demand of the petitioners to set aside notice dated 26/11/2002 has
	not been accepted by the Tribunal and it has given only one 
	direction that the respondent should take action in respect of this
	notice as per Chapter-8 of the Establishment Manual and Service
	Regulations. Ms. Bhaya contended that on abolition of Contract 
	Labour at TPS, Gandhinagar w.e.f. 9/6/1997 the contract labours
	were required to be absorbed in the regular employment of Gujarat
	Electricity Board. The petitioners claim that they were working in
	Skywin Erectors Contractor as could be seen from their identity
	card which were produced before the Tribunal in Reference (IT) No.
	25/2004. They joined in service after 9/6/1997 with the contractor
	and those documents are produced at page 71 to 74. Thus they were
	not entitled to be employed and fraudulently procured employment was
	void ab initio. Through mistake or oversight this facts were not
	noticed by the respondent and therefore the petitioners were
	absorbed. In such facts & circumstances the fulfledged inquiry
	is unwarranted as their absorption in regular employment was
	erroneous it was void ab initio and therefore there was no
	requirement of fulfledged inquiry as demanded. Ms.
	Bhaya has further submitted that:- Respondent
	received a Complaint dated 22.07.1998 with regard to certain
	employees not being in employment with the Contractors prior to the
	appointed day i.e. 30.06.1997 and yet they being absorbed on that
	basis as if they were entitled to be absorbed being in employment of
	contractor prior to 30.06.1997. The
	Respondent appointed Committee of senior officers who held discreet
	inquiry and submitted report on 3.09.1998. The Committee inquired
	with many persons including the employee of the erstwhile contractor
	where from they came to know that some 11 employees who were
	absorbed, were not known to him meaning thereby they were not
	working with the Contractor. The Officer of GEB Shri Chintan Shah
	informed the committee that Strike Notice was given in respect of
	these employees and they were regularized consequent to settlement
	in the case. The Committee has recorded that some of the persons
	were engaged by the contractor after the Award. The
	Prelinimary Inquiry Committee further observed that on inquiry with
	Mr. Rana LWO it was found as to what was the procedure for issuing
	gate passes etc. Shri Rana also informed the Committee that he had
	doubts about some employees were not originally working with the
	contractor at all and were getting benefit of regularization. As
	could be seen from page 83 on the compilation that later we
	called some of 11 (Eleven) contract labour who had joined the
	contractor after the date of notification and tried to ask them as
	regards any cash/kind transaction they had entered into so that they
	could be regularized in the Board later on. None of them told us
	regarding cash transaction but all of them told us that they were
	given assurance that they shall be regularized in Gandhinagar TPS. 
	The Conclusions are also required to be noted:- Sd/- Sd/- Date: the basis of this Report dated 3.09.1998 the initial termination
	orders dated 11.09.1998 came to be issued which were subject matter
	of challenge in SCA NO. 7928 OF 19978 wherein respondents were
	permitted to withdraw the same under order dated 24.06.1999 by this
	Court (Coram; S.K.Keshote, J as he then was)
	 

 
	
	 

	The
	Petitioners were reinstated on 2.07.1999 and were confirmed by the
	Competent Authority of GEB i.e. Chief Engineer vide order No.
	GPS/ESTT/Confirm/14554 Gujarat Electricity Board Thermal power
	Station Gandhinagar dated 25.10.1999. Nothing
	was done for quite some time and only on 26.11.2002 a Show Cause
	Notice came to be issued that too it did not contain any allegation
	with regard to any so called fraud of obtaining job but it talked
	about the petitioners' mistaken regulariztion by the Authorities.
	The Notice also did not contain any allegation with regard to
	petitioners making any false or mis representation for obtaining
	job. The
	petitioners filed their Reply to the Show cause on 29.11.2002
	contending that they were working with the contractor prior to the
	appointed day and after verifying their documentary evidence of
	serving with contractor prior to the appointed day i.e 30.06.1997
	they were not proceeded against and rather they were confirmed in
	services of the Board as could be seen from page 92 on the
	compilation. The
	petitioners also contended in their reply dated 29.11.12002 that
	they are entitled to defend themselves in departmental inquiry if
	any and in fact without holding such inquiry their services could
	not be terminated. One
	more Show Cause Notice dated 26.01.2003 by the Board. Writ
	Petition being SCA 693 of 2003, which came to be withdrawn vide
	order dated 10.02.2004 as the Reference No. 25 of 2004 was made. Tribunal
	vide its order dated 6.10.2004 rejected the Ad Interim Relief
	Application exhibit 7 of the petitioners. The
	petitioners filed SCA 14106 of 2004 and obtained interim order
	against termination and direction for conducting the reference
	within four months. The
	Award dated 20.01.2007 directing the respondents to hold
	departmental inquiry in accordance with the provisions of Service
	Regulations and Chapter 8 of the GEB Establishment Manual. The
	Respondent did not comply with the direction and passed order dated
	12.06.2007 termination of the services of the petitioner impugned in
	these petitions. The
	Respondent also filed petition challenging the Award dated
	20.01.2007. This
	Court passed some interim orders. But
	later on clarified that petitioner would not be entitled to insist
	for compliance therewith. Against
	the aforesaid indisputable factual backdrop the Court has to examine
	the impugned order dated 12.06.2007. It is required to be noted that
	the Respondents have challenged the Award dated 20.1.2007 only so
	far as it contains direction for holding inquiry in accordance with
	the provisions of Service Regulations and the provisions of Chapter
	8 of the GEB Establishment Manual. Let us see the findings of the
	Tribunal for issuing such directions. The
	Tribunal has set out provisions of Service Regulation 26 of GEB
	Service Regulations and held that present petitioners were certainly
	entitled for being governed by these regulations. The
	Tribunal has also extracted and elaborately discussed various
	provisions of The Gujarat Electricity Board Establishment Manual
	and its schedule and recorded its unequivocal findings based thereon
	that present petitioners were entitled to be governed by those
	provisions. The
	Tribunal has also extracted and elaborately discussed provisions of
	GSO 236, 238 ,239 and 275 of the Service Regulations and recorded
	its findings based thereon that the present petitioners were
	entitled to be governed by the same. This
	Court is of the considered view that those findings of the Tribunal
	in these facts cannot be said to be so perverse as to warrant any
	interference under Article 227 of the Constitution. In fact looking
	to the provisions of Service Regulations and GEB Establishment
	Manual in light of the peculiar facts of the instant case there was
	no possibility of any other view of the matter but to hold that the
	petitioners were entitled to be governed by those provisions. The
	submissions of Ms. Bhaya Learned Advocate for the respondent that as
	 impugned notice dated 26.11.2002 has not been quashed by the
	Tribunal the respondent were not under obligation to hold inquiry as
	per the provisions of Service Regulations and Chapter 8 of the
	Establishment manual is bereft of any merits. The Show Cause Notice
	dated 26.11.2002 and its reply if found unsatisfactory then the
	authority could have proceeded against the petitioners in accordance
	with the provisions of service regulations and provisions of chapter
	8 of the establishment manual. Non quashing of Notice dated
	26.11.2002 in itself cannot be said to be an exemption from
	following provisions as stated herein above especially so when the
	Tribunal has issued very specific director to hold inquiry in
	accordance with those provisions. This
	Court is unable to accept submissions of Ms.Bhaya Learned Advocate
	for the Respondent that as the petitioners had not worked with
	contractor prior to the appointed day i.e. 30.06.1997 they were not
	entitled to be absorbed and as such their initial appointment itself
	being not legal and valid they did not have right to be governed by
	any disciplinary provisions and the Board was not under obligation
	to hold any inquiry as directed by the Tribunal. First of all a
	question arises whether respondent has conclusively proved and
	established after following principles of natural justice and after
	giving full opportunity to the petitioners that petitioners did not
	work as Contract Labour at TPS Gandhinagar prior to the appointed
	day i.e. 30.06.1997. The answer would be emphatic NO . The
	Initial order of Termination dated 11.09.1998 was based upon a
	Report of Preliminary Inquiry submitted by two senior officer on
	3.09.1998. This inquiry was necessitated on account of some
	complaint received on 27.07.1998. It appears that the preliminary
	inquiry was essentially held for pinpointing involvement of one
	Shri Chintan Shah an officer of the Board against whom also later on
	departmental inquiry appeared to have been held. The preliminary
	fact finding inquiry and its conclusions were at the best only
	tentative conclusions not sufficient to establish and prove
	conclusively that petitioners did not work before the appointed day
	with contractor so as to render their initial absorption and
	appointment illegal. When the factum of petitioners' non serving
	as contract labour before appointed day remained to be established 
	 the entire premise for terming initial 'absorption' as illegal
	would be knocked off. Ms.
	Bhaya's submission that as the petitioners obtained initial
	absorption fraudulently and on misrepresentation of being in service
	with Contractor as Contract Labour prior to the appointed day i.e.
	30.06.1997 their initial absorption and appointment was vitiated and
	void ab initio which required no departmental inquiry for
	termination is also bereft of any merits and deserves to be
	rejected. The Judgments and authorities cited at the bar by
	Ms.Bhaya are not applicable to the peculiar facts and circumstances
	of instant case. Moreover it cannot be said that they lay down any
	absolute proposition of law as canvassed before this Court. On the
	contrary the much cherished rule of affording reasonable opportunity
	to party before passing any adverse orders makes it incumbent upon
	all to follow principles of natural justice in every case before
	inflicting any adverse order upon any party. This Court is of the
	view that few glaring facts need to be reiterated at the cost of
	repetition also for indicating as to why the respondents were under
	obligation for holding departmental proceedings and establishing 
	therein that petitioners did not work before the appointed day i.e.
	30.06.1997 before passing the impugned order dated 12-06.2007. (1)
	The petitioners' initial absorption was based upon verification of
	documents and on the authority being satisfied that they were
	working as Contract Labour prior to the appointed day i.e.
	30.06.1997 with Contractor at TPS Gandhinagar. ( 2) The Respondent
	received some complaint dated 27.07.1998 for some persons not being
	in employment with contract labour yet being absorbed on that basis 
	rendering such absorption illegal. (3) The Respondent initiated only
	preliminary inquiry by two senior officers of the Board. (4) It was
	not the case of the Board that this was a full inquiry against the
	petitioners also. (5) It is not the case of the Board that it
	followed principles of natural justice in holding the said inquiry.
	(6) On the contrary the Report dated 3.09.1998 makes it abundantly
	clear that the inquiry was essentially for pinpointing involvement
	of one Shri Chintan Shah an officer of the Board who later on faced
	fullfleged inquiry. (7) The Report dated 3.09.1998 cannot be said
	to be proof much less sufficient proof of petitioners' non serving
	as contract labour with contractor at TPS prior to the appointed day
	i.e. 30.06.1997. (8) The initial order dated 11.09.1998 of
	Termination was based on this report. (9) As it was absolutely
	unsustainable in eye of law the respondents withdrew the same and
	reinstated the petitioner vide their order dated 2.09.1999 as they
	were permitted to withdraw the same by this Court in writ petition.
	(10) After withdrawal of initial termination order dated 11.09.1998
	and petitioners' reinstatement on 2.09.1999 the respondents recorded
	petitioners' statements about their serving with contractor before
	the appointed day i.e. 30.06.1997 as could be seen from the reply of
	the petitioner dated 29.11.2002 the proceedings were dropped and
	petitioners were confirmed in services of Board vide order dated
	25.11.2000. (11) The fact of petitioners being confirmed only in the
	year 2000 after their reinstatement has not been denied by the
	respondent in any of their communications. (12) The petitioners
	have taken specific stand to this effect in their reply dated
	29.11.2002 which has not been dealt with by the respondents. (13)
	The Tribunal has in its Award dated 20.1.2007 passed in Reference IT
	No.25 of 2004 specifically directed the respondents to hold
	departmental inquiry as per the provisions of GEB Service
	Regulations and in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 8 of
	the GEB Establishment Manual. (14) The Respondent did not challenge
	the said direction and passed the impugned order of termination
	dated 12.06.2007 blatantly ignoring the same. (15) It was not open
	to respondent to ignore the direction dated 20.01.2007 without it
	being challenged in and set aside by the competent court. ( 16) The
	subsequent filing of the petition being SCA 17181 of 2007 for
	challenging the said direction after flaunting the same would have
	no curing effect (17) The Testimony of witnesses before the Tribunal
	go to show that petitioners have some case to prove and therefore
	also it was not open to the respondents to ignore the direction of
	the Tribunal and pass the impugned order dated 12.06.2007. Thus the
	submission of Miss Bhaya deserves to be rejected. Miss
	Bhaya relying upon the Identity Cards of the petitioners produced
	before the Tribunal contended that as they contain their date of
	appointment which is subsequent to the appointed day i.e. 30.06.1997
	they cannot be said to have been in service prior to 30.06.1997 also
	merits rejection only. It rather go to show that the petitioners on
	production of such Identity Card did not mis-lead or mis-represented
	and perhaps respondents' initial stand in the termination order and
	subsequent notices is therefore only of mistake in absorbing the
	petitioners and it did not contain any allegation of fraud or
	misrepresentation. It is nowhere stated by the present employer
	that in what way the employment was offered to the petitioners.
	Whether there were any prescribed application form to be filled in
	or whether there was any other documents required to be produced is
	not mentioned and there has to be a specific say that the forged
	documents were produced by the workmen. The document is in the form
	of I.Card containing specific date which go to show that they were
	employed after 1997 but that in itself would not be a conclusive
	proof to show that they were not employed prior thereto. Assuming
	for the argument purpose that they were employed on the basis of
	their serving with contractor as contract labour prior to
	30.06.1997, then also it cannot be said that they had
	misrepresented. The
	respondent have not produced any other material whereupon it could
	be said that the present petitioners represented any way differently
	or contended anything which can be said that it was false
	representation. The
	initial order dated 11/9/1998 had been issued simply terminating
	petitioners' services and it did not contain any reason for
	terminating the services of the petitioners. It requires to be
	noted that the initial employment order where under the petitioners
	were absorbed or regularized and terms thereof have not been
	produced anywhere. The fact remains to be noted that the petitioners
	and other employees of the contractor employed on the contract
	labour got their right to be absorbed in regular employment only
	from 9/6/1998 that is the date on which the notification abolishing
	Contract Labour Act came to be issued. Meaning thereby the
	termination which was effected on 11/9/1998 was issued without any
	reason, at least present petitioners were not party to any such
	inquiry nor were they even informed possible cause for termination. 
	The Respondent during pendency of the Special Civil Application No.
	7928 of 1998 on its own volition decided to withdraw the termination
	order and sought opportunity to act in accordance with law. In
	accordance with law is very important phraseology. The order of
	termination dated 11/9/1998 which did not disclose any reason, came
	to be withdrawn while seeking liberty to act in accordance with law.
	 It is very important to note at this stage that the employer being
	Gujarat Electricity Board ought not to have issued the confirmation
	letters especially when they were aware about the fact that earlier
	order of termination dated the order dated 11/09/1998 was there and
	it was issued as per the say of the respondent only on account of
	fact finding inquiry, wherein the present petitioners were not party
	and on coming to the knowledge of the fact that the petitioners had
	procured employment fraudulently and or they were not eligible to be
	regularised as they did not work with the contract labourer
	contractor prior to 9/6/1997 there was no need to issue confirmation
	letter. Having issued the confirmation letters, confirming all the
	petitioners vide order dated 25/10/1999 after withdrawing earlier
	termination order dated 11/09/1998 a question arise, whether it
	was thereafter open to the respondent to treat the petitioners as
	employees who obtained employment fraudulently and terminate their
	services without following the inquiry procedure prescribed under
	the applicable service regulations. The action of confirmation
	itself can not be brushed aside or termed to be a mere routine work.
	Because action of confirmation does confer right upon the employees
	and corresponding duty upon the employer, where under the tenure is
	secured. It is not a new principle to be settled in service
	jurisprudence that the confirmed employee has secured tenure and
	assurance that his services will not be terminated without following
	due procedure of law and he would be governed by the service
	regulations vis-a-vis the temporary and or adhoc and or probationer
	who does not enjoy the said protection. It
	is not the case that the respondent that the notice came to be
	issued for the so called irregularities or fraudulently obtaining
	employment by the petitioners only after they were confirmed on
	25/10/1999. On the contrary the irregularities or so called fraud
	was detected by them prior to the petitioners' confirmation and as a
	result thereof the initial termination orders date 11/9/1998 came
	to be issued. After having withdrawing the same and after confirming
	the employees the respondent can not again go back on the spacious
	plea that as it was fraud prior to they being into service of GEB
	it was not misconduct warranting any inquiry. The
	petitioners have one more justification for seeking fulfledged
	inquiry as the Tribunal's order where present respondent was party
	has been completely ignored. It is required to be noted that the
	order and award of the Tribunal dated 230/1/2007 is an order and
	decree which is binding on both the parties and when the respondent
	were party and it was binding upon them, they could not have
	by-passed the same with impunity and issue the order of termination
	dated 12/6/2007 without following the procedure as prescribed under
	provision of Chapter-8 Establishment Manual & Service
	Regulations. The
	respondent can not be permitted to argue that the Tribunal's order
	could be so construed as to giving them opportunity to continue with
	their show cause notice dated 24/11/2002 and pass appropriate order
	even in ignorance and or by not complying with the operative portion
	direction of holding proceedings as per the provision of service
	regulations as well as the provision of Chapter-8 of the
	Establishment Manual. The
	petition being Special Civil Application No. 17181 of 2007 is
	clearly an example or manifestation of rendering the plea untenable
	and bad. Had there been any such understanding then the respondent
	ought not to have filed the petition at all but the specific
	direction of the Tribunal which is a decree between the parties is
	to be fulfilled or complied with and unless it is not set at naught
	the same remains binding. The order dated 12/6/2007 is required to
	be viewed from this angle also. Against
	this factual backdrop, the contention of Ms. Bhaya would not appear
	to be tenable in eye of law. The reliance placed upon various 
	decisions are governing the peculiar facts & circumstances of
	those respective cases. There can not be a dispute that fraud
	vitiates everything but in the instant case first of all the
	requirement of fulfledged inquiry can not be ruled out as the
	employees were required to be clearly told as to what were their
	misrepresentation. Whereby such misrepresentation was given by
	writing or it is only based upon the I. Card which does not disclose
	they were any way projected to be in employment prior to the
	appointed date. If the employee had not projected themselves to be
	the employees prior to the date of appointed day, at the best it was
	a mistake to continue them. It can not be said that it was
	fraudulent act on the part of the petitioners as they did not
	produce anything which can be classified to be a forged or bogus
	document. All these pleas are required to be answered and the
	necessary evidence will have to be given especially when the
	petitioners were confirmed subsequent to detection of mistake, or so
	called fraud on the part of their own employee. The
	authority relied upon by Ms. Bhaya in case of R. Vishwanatha Pillai
	Vs. State of Kerala And Others , (2004) 2 SCC 105. In the aforesaid
	case also, it was a case of procuring employment on false caste
	certificate and it was recorded by the Court that though there was
	no requirement of attracting Article 311 , it was held that
	requirement of Article 311 and Rule 6 & 7 of All India Services
	(Discipline And Appeal) Rules, 1969 had been complied with.
	Therefore even this judgment is also of no avail to the respondent
	in the peculiar facts of the present case, where there is admittedly
	no charge sheet is issued to the employees nor they have been
	subjected to specific allegation or they have been given documents
	indicating that those documents were forged documents. The
	third case relied upon by Ms. Bhaya in case of Superintendent of
	Post Offices and Others Vs. R. Valasina Babu , (2007) 2 SCC 335,
	wherein the disciplinary proceedings were in fact initiated and it
	was recorded that the caste certificate which was basis for
	procuring employment itself had been revoked by the issuing
	authority that is the Collector. That factom was very much there on
	the record. In the instant case it is no where the case of the
	respondent that whether the documents produced were established to
	be obtained by fraud at least for holding proper inquiry. In
	case of Bank of India and another Vs. Avinash D. Mandivikar and
	others , (2005) 7 SCC 690, it is again the case of caste certificate 
	of scrutiny and committee's recommendation having no applicability
	to the present case. The last citation in respect of Bhaurao Dagdu
	Paralkar Vs. State of Maharashtra and others , (2005) 7 SCC 605, it
	was regarding report of the inquiry committee appointed by the High
	Court with regard to going into merits of the false claim of Freedom
	Fighter's Pension Scheme, which has no applicability to the case of
	present case. Assuming
	for the sake of examining contention of Ms. Bhaya with regard to no
	requirement of holding fulfledged inquiry is necessary, a question
	arise as to even as per the perception of the respondent, some
	inquiry is required. Can the inquiry which is undertaken against its
	own officer so as to presume that there was justification for
	passing order impugned in this petition. The answer is NO. In
	fact assuming for the sake of examining the submission that the
	respondent was not liable to follow the provision of Chapter-8 of
	the Establishment Manual then also, can it be said that the
	procedure adopted so far is to afford an opportunity to defend to
	the petitioners. The answer is NO. First of all, it has not been
	brought on record that which document the petitioners have forged.
	Nor has it been brought on record that under which application/form
	the petitioners said that they have misrepresented there case for
	employment. In
	what circumstances when the notice of fraud had been available yet
	the petitioners were confirmed by the respondent. The employer can
	not say that they had not been interested in pursuing the matter
	any further and once they have been confirmed after the knowledge of
	so called fraud, can the employer be permitted to take away the
	factom of confirmation or render it nugatory and treat it to be
	obtained on fraud, not requiring any inquiry. The
	cases cited herein before did not indicate any where clearly that
	the inquiry is not needed and therefore, this Court is of the
	considered view that the order impugned deserves to be quashed and
	set aside and accordingly it is quashed and set aside. In
	view of above, the petitions being Special Civil Application No.
	14161 of 2007 with Special Civil Application No. 14163 of 2007 to
	14168 of 2007 are partly allowed. The impugned order dated 12/6/2007
	is hereby quashed and set aside and the respondents are directed to
	reinstate the petitioners of the above petitions forthwith with
	consequential benefits, as if said order has never been passed. The
	respondents are at liberty to hold fulfledged inquiry in accordance
	with the directions issued by the Tribunal in Reference (IT) No.
	25/2004 dated 20/1/2007. Rule made absolute to the aforesaid extent
	only. However there shall be no order as to costs. Special
	Civil Application No.17181 of 2007 is required to be dismissed with
	an observation that the respondents who are petitioners in Special
	Civil Application No. 17181 of 2007 ought to have either followed
	strictly the directions issued by the Tribunal or else, ought to
	have challenged the same in appropriate proceedings before passing
	the order dated 12/6/2007, ignoring the direction and treating as if
	the direction were not existing at all. This conduct of the
	respondents deserve deprecation. The petition being Special Civil
	Application No. 17181 of 2007 is accordingly dismissed with cost.
	Notice discharged. Registry
	is directed to keep copy of this judgment in each of the petitions. [
	S.R. BRAHMBHATT, J ]

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
FURTHER
ORDER DATED 29/12/2008: