1. In this petition, filed under Section 561-A of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, the petitioners seek the indulgence of this Court in quashing
 the FIR bearing No.78 of the year 2013, registered against them at Police
 Station Gandhi Nagar, Jammu, for the commission of offences under Sections 426 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 406 of the RPC. 2. Before appreciating and looking into the merits of the petition, it will be
 profitable to give a brief account of the facts and the grounds that forced
 the petitioners to file this petition. It has been pleaded in the petition that
 the petitioner No.1 and the petitioner no.3 are in possession of a house
 bearing No. 20 situate at 2nd Extn. Gandhi Nagar, Jammu. The land
 underneath and appurtenant to the house, measures one Kanal
 approximately. The petitioner no.1 is legally competent to sell the said
 house for being the lawful attorney of the owner, named, Pardeep Jain.
 The respondent No.3 who is a businessman approached the petitioner nos.1
 and 3 for the purchase of the aforesaid house. The petitioner No.1 agreed
 to sell it for a consideration of Rs. 2.60 Crores. It was further decided on
 01.04.2012 that the amount of Rs. 2.60 Crore will be paid within a period 561-A Cr.P.C . No.75/2013 Page 1 of 18 of three months from the said date. The respondent no.3 issued a cheque
 dated 03.04.2012 amounting to Rs.10.00 Lac in favour of the petitioner
 no.1 and two cheques dated 03.04.2012 and 11.06.2012 amounting to Rs.
 10.00 Lac and Rs. 13.00 Lac respectively in favour of Champa Devi, i.e.,
 the petitioner No.3. The cheques given to the petitioner No.3, were
 encashed but the respondent No. 3 stopped the payment of the cheques
 delivered to the petitioner No.1. Subsequently, the parties decided that if
 the payment as decided is not made within the stipulated time, the advance
 so paid shall be forfeited. The respondent No.3 did not make the payment
 thereafter owing to some financial crunch. He avoided the execution of the
 deed and the deal on one pretext or the other. The petitioner No.1
 requested the respondent No.3 a number of times to pay him the balance
 amount of Rs. 2.37 Crore and get the sale deed executed but the respondent
 No.3 did not pay any heed to him and the petitioner no.1 thought that the
 respondent no.3 has lost interest in the property. The respondent No.2
 working as Station House Officer, Police Station Gandhi Nagar, Jammu,
 threatened the petitioner No.1 to return the advance money to the
 respondent No. 3. The respondent No.2 illegally confined the petitioner
 No.1 in the police Station for a period of three days without lodging any
 F.I.R. The petitioner No.1 was taken into the custody on 06.02.2013 and
 was released from the custody on 08.02.2013. Thereafter, the petitioner
 no.1 received continuous threats from the respondent Nos.2 and 3.
 However, the petitioner did not succumb to these threats. He moved a
 representation (Annexure-A attached to the petition) before the IGP
 Jammu on 22.02.2013 in which he detailed the illegalities committed by
 the respondent Nos.2 and 3. The IGP Jammu Zone took cognizance of the
 issue and transferred the investigation of the case to SDPO Gandhi Nagar
 Jammu. The SDPO, Gandhi Nagar, Jammu, conducted a detailed enquiry
 into the matter. In addition to recording the statement of the petitioner
 No.1, he recorded the statements of Romesh Lal Additional SHO Gandhi
 Nagar, Jammu, and those of a few police officers posted at Gandhi Nagar 561-A Cr.P.C . No.75/2013 Page 2 of 18 Police Station. He found that the case is of civil nature and the police
 cannot investigate the same. He also recommended that a criminal case be
 lodged against the respondent no.2 for having illegally confined the
 petitioner No. 1 in police custody. The contents of the report so laid are
 known to the police authorities. It is a clear case of the abuse of the official
 position by the respondent No.2 and the violation of the judgment passed
 by Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of " D. K. Basu vs. State of West
 Bengal " (AIR 1997 SC 610). It is also contended that to the utter dismay of
 the petitioners it was on 02.04.2013 that they came to know that an FIR
 bearing No. 78/2013 has been registered against them at Police Station
 Gandhi Nagar Jammu, on 02.04.2013for the commission of offences under Sections 426 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 & 406 of RPC. 3. Aggrieved by the registration of the aforesaid FIR bearing No. 78/2012
 dated 02.04.2013, the petitioners have assailed the same on the grounds,
 inter alia, that even if the contents of the F.I.R are read against them in
 their entirety, no prudent man can conclude that the offences under Sections 426 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 & 406 of the RPC are made out. S.H.O
 Police Station Gandhi Nagar, Jammu, had no authority to register the FIR
 against the petitioners in view of the fact that SDPO Gandhi Nagar,
 Jammu, had already returned a finding in the matter to the effect that the
 case is of a civil nature and the police authorities cannot investigate the
 same. The SHO Police Station, Gandhi Nagar, Jammu, that is, the
 respondent No.2 is personally interested in the case. He has been bribed
 by the respondent No.3. Although he is tainted with the allegations of
 confining the petitioner No.1 illegally, yet he is showing an extraordinary
 interest in the case. The present FIR is manifestly attended with malafides
 and malice. It has been lodged with an ulterior motive to wreak vengeance
 against the petitioners and with a view to spite the petitioners due to the
 grudge that the petitioner no.1 stood against him; got the enquiry initiated
 and conducted against him in which adverse remarks were passed against
 him. The allegation made in the first information report even if taken on 561-A Cr.P.C . No.75/2013 Page 3 of 18 their face value do not constitute the offences under Sections 426 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 & 406 of the RPC. There is no allegation against the
 petitioner No.2 and no document has been forged. The respondent No.3
 has himself admitted that the documents are genuine. 4. It is further contended that the petitioner No.1 filed a complaint in the
 Court of the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jammu, against the
 respondent No.2 which was transferred to the Court of the City Judge,
 Jammu, and the learned Judge directed SSP Jammu to register a case
 against the respondent No.2. In this scenario, the fairness of the
 investigation in the hands of respondent No.2 can be seriously doubted.
 The respondent No.2 is tainted with the allegation of favourtism and this
 will severely prejudice the interest of the petitioners. The 2 nd Additional
 Sessions Judge, Jammu, has also recorded a finding in the bail petition of
 the petitioner No.1 that the case is civil of a nature and the respondent No.2
 is hobnobbing with the respondent No.3 in order to harass the petitioners.
 The allegation in the FIR, that the petitioners have cheated the respondent
 No.3 has no substance in it. The respondent No.3 issued the cheques in
 favour of the petitioner Nos.1 and 3. It shows that the respondent no.3 was
 well aware of the fact that the petitioner No.1 and the petitioner No.3 are in
 the joint possession of the house. The petitioner No.1 is also the lawful
 attorney of the last owner of the house, i.e., Pardeep Jain. He has not
 committed any fraud on the respondent No.3. He is ready and willing to
 sell the house in favour of the respondent No.3, if he pays the remaining
 amount. 5. Before looking into the areas of concern that the petitioners have projected
 in this petition, the contents of the FIR require to be examined. The
 complainant, Kuldeep Wahi, (respondent No.3 herein), moved a complaint
 before the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jammu, against Sh. Rakesh
 Kumar Gupta S/o Sh. Suraj Prakash Gupta R/o Flat No. 4, Trikuat Nagar
 Jammu, S. Pritpal Singh S/o S. Baldev Singh R/o Paul Katel Below Gumat
 Jammu, Smt Champa Devi D/o Sh. Khazan Chand R/o H. No. 3, Rajinder 561-A Cr.P.C . No.75/2013 Page 4 of 18 Nagar, Canal Road, Jammu and Anil Kumar S/o Sh. Kapil Muni R/o
 Sector 4, Trikuat Nagar, Jammu, under Section 156(3) of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure, for directing the Incharge Police Station concerned to
 lodge an FIR against them under the relevant provisions of law. In the
 complaint, the complainant, delineated that the accused persons
 approached him with the proposal of selling a house bearing No.20-C,
 situate at Gandhi Nagar, Extn. Jammu, for a total sale consideration of
 Rs.260 Lacs. After making this proposal, the respondent No. 3 inspected
 the said house. It was at the behest of the accused Rakesh Kumar and
 Pritipal Singh that on 20.03.2012 they executed an agreement to sell in his
 favour despite the fact that the property did not belong to accused No.4 and
 he had already sold it to the accused No.3 vide an agreement to sell dated
 28.02.2010. Accused Nos.1 and 2 fraudulently received an amount of
 Rs.1.00 Lac and the accused No.3 & 4 received Rs.10.00 Lac through
 Cheques from him at the time of the execution of the agreement dated
 28.03.2012. After the execution of the agreement he approached the
 accused a number of times requesting them to adhere to the terms and
 conditions of the agreement to sell dated 20.03.2012, but they avoided him
 under one or the other pretext. It is also stated that the aforesaid property
 was originally allotted to Sh. P. C. Bhardwaj and subsequently permission
 to raise a construction on it was granted in his favour on 07.01.2006. The
 wife, namely, Smt. Asha Bhardwaj and the Son, namely, Manu Bhardwaj
 of Sh. P. C. Bhardwaj sold the above said property to Sh. Pardeep Jain at a
 time when their names had not been recorded in the register of the Housing
 Board. Pardeep Jain in turn sold the same to Mr. Anil Kumar and a power
 of attorney was executed by Pardeep Jain in favour of Anil Kumar before
 the Sub-Registrar, Jammu, on 15.02.2010. The complainant also came to
 know that on 28.02.2012 the accused No.4 (Anil Kumar) had executed an
 agreement to sell in favour of the accused No.3 (Champa Devi). Thus, the
 accused No.4 (Anil Kumar) had no authority to execute the agreement to
 sell dated 20.03.2012 with the complainant. This shows that the accused 561-A Cr.P.C . No.75/2013 Page 5 of 18 had a criminal intent at the time of the execution of the agreement to sell
 dated 20.03.2012 itself. More over it had also come to the knowledge of
 the complainant that the accused No.4 had executed a power of attorney in
 favour of accused No.3 on 20.03.2012, which was registered by the Sub-
 Registrar, Jammu. This means that all the accused persons jointly
 defrauded the complainant. After all this the complainant again approached
 the accused persons and requested them to return the money fraudulently
 taken by them but the accused persons instead of returning the money
 assured the complainant that the accused No. 3 (Champa Devi) will
 execute the requisite document in his favour after the above said property
 is transferred in her name. On this assurance the complainant issued two
 cheques in favour of the accused No. 3 in an amount of Rs. Thirteen lacs
 bearing No. 496886 and Rs. Seven lacs bearing No. 630824. The accused
 No. 1 & 2 fraudulently received rupees one lac cash from the complainant.
 Accused No. 3 namely, Champa Devi, who is also the mother-in-law of
 accused No.1 namely Rakesh Kumar Gupta fraudulently received rupees
 twenty three lacs from him vide two cheques numbered above and the
 accused No.4 namely, Anil Kumar, fraudulently received a cheque of
 rupees ten lacs the payment of which was later stopped by the complainant.
 The accused persons have thus fraudulently duped him of his hard earned
 money by playing fraud. The complaint repeatedly requested the accused
 persons and even called Sh. Rakesh Kumar who is son-in-law of accused
 No.3 on telephone as well through SMS dated 30.06.2012 for getting the
 sale deed executed in the name of Champa Devi (Mother-in-law of Rakesh
 Kumar) and for the onward transfer of the same in the name of
 complainant but the accused persons did not do so. That recently the
 complainant came to know that Chama Devi has entered into another
 agreement to sell for the same property with one Sardari Lal Gupta of
 Jammu without the knowledge of the complainant and has thus committed
 fraud with the complainant. In the premises, it has been prayed that the
 Incharge Police Station Gandhi Nagar, Jammu be directed to lodge an FIR 561-A Cr.P.C . No.75/2013 Page 6 of 18 against the accused persons under sections 426 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 406 of
 RPC. On this complaint, the learned chief Judicial Magistrate directed the
 S.H.O Police Station Gandhi Nagar, Jammu, to investigate the matter
 under law if cognizable offences are committed. 6. It requires to be added that the petitioner No.1 moved a representation
 before the Inspector General of Police Jammu Zone, alleging harassment at
 the hands of the SHO, Police Station, Gandhi Nagar, and the Inspector
 General of Police directed the SDPO, South to look into the matter
 personally and to take necessary action under law and report. In the said
 representation, the petitioner No.1 stated that he was illegally confined by
 the SHO, Police Station, Gandhi Nagar, at the behest of one Kuldeep Wahi
 who had agreed to purchase a house located at Gandhi Nagar, Jammu,
 from him, but he backed out subsequently. The SDPO conducted an
 inquiry into the matter and forwarded his report to the IGP, Jammu, the
 sum and substance of which is that besides recording the statement of the
 petitioner No. 1 the statements of SI Ramesh Lal, SI Mohinder Singh, ASI,
 Rahul Dogra all working in Police Station Gandhi Nagar, Jammu and
 Balbir Chander were recorded by him and from the enquiry so conducted
 what surfaced is that the complainant Anil Kumar S/o Kapil Muni R/o
 Sector-4 Extn Trikuta Nagar, Jammu was called by Inspr. Gurmeet Singh
 SHO P/S Gandhi Nagar Jammu in the matter which is purely civil in nature
 after hobnobbing with Kuldeep Wahi and kept him (the Complainant Anil
 Kumar) in illegal confinement for a period of three days without any
 justification. During the course of enquiry it also came to the fore that on
 his illegal detention, the complainant approached the Court through his
 counsel for seeking bail in which a report was accordingly called from
 SHO P/S Gandhi Nagar, Jammu, regarding the arrest of the complaint but
 the SHO Gandhi Nagar did not bother to submit the report before the court
 of law. Upon this contempt proceedings were initiated against him (SHO)
 in the court of law and a commissioner was appointed for conducting the
 physical inspection of Police Station Gandhi Nagar, Jammu to ascertain 561-A Cr.P.C . No.75/2013 Page 7 of 18 whether, or not, the complainant has been lodged in the lock up but on
 coming to know about it the SHO set him free before the commissioner
 could reach there. Inspr. Gurmeet Singh, SHO Police Station Gandhi
 Nagar, by doing so has degraded the image of the police for which a
 criminal case under the relevant sections of law is needed to be registered
 against him in police station Gandhi Nagar, Jammu and accordingly
 necessary directions are solicited on that count. 7. It needs must be said that the petitioner No.1 i.e. Anil Kumar filed a
 complaint before Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jammu against Sr.
 Superintendant of Police, Jammu stating therein that he was called by the
 SHO Police Station Gandhi Nagar, Jammu named Gurmeet Singh to the
 Police Station on 06.02.2013 at about 1030 am and he lodged him in the
 lockup for reasons unknown to him. Consequent upon this an application
 u/s 100 Cr.P.C was moved before the Ld. Munsiff, Jammu who directed
 the inspection of the police station through a commissioner. When the
 SHO Police Station Gandhi Nagar came to know about this order of the
 Ld. Munsiff, Jammu he set the complainant free on 08.02.2013 at about
 4:00 pm which by itself is an offence. The complainant simultaneously
 moved a representation before IG Jammu, Zone Jammu, for harassment
 and illegal confinement wherein Assistant Superintendant of Police SDPO
 South, Jammu, was directed to hold an enquiry against the above named
 SHO P/S Gandhi Nagar vide letter No. Clt/16/J/Pol/2013/4527 dated
 22.02.2013. The enquiry officer so appointed by the IG Jammu after
 holding the enquiry fairly and squarely indicted the said SHO and
 recommended for the registration of a criminal case against him, but
 unfortunately instead of taking any action against the said SHO the
 department slept over the matter and he is enjoying a lucrative posting at
 the moment. In the end it has been prayed that the non-applicant may
 kindly be directed to register an FIR against the above said accused person
 Gurmeet Singh A/p SHO Police Station Gandhi Nagar, Jammu, without
 wasting further time and he shall file the compliance report in the Court in 561-A Cr.P.C . No.75/2013 Page 8 of 18 the interest of justice and fair play. The learned Munsiff vide his order
 dated 28.03.2013 directed that, prima facie, the commission of a
 cognizable offence is made out in the instant case and accordingly SSP
 Jammu is directed to investigate the matter under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C.
 either by himself or through his subordinate. In view of the direction so
 extended, a case bearing FIR No. 150 of the year 2013 was registered
 against the respondent No.2 on 29.06.2013 for the commission of an
 offence under Section 343 Cr.P.C. 8. Heard and considered. 9. The law is that in exercise of the wholesome power vested in the High
 Court under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code corresponding to
 Section 561-A of the J&K Criminal Procedure Code , the High Court is
 entitled to quash a proceeding if it comes to the conclusion that allowing
 the proceeding to continue would be an abuse of the process of the Court
 or that the ends of justice require that the proceeding ought to be quashed.
 The saving of the High Court‟s inherent powers, both in civil and criminal
 matters, is designed to achieve a salutary public purpose which is that a
 Court proceeding ought not to be permitted to degenerate into a weapon of
 harassment or persecution. In a criminal case, the veiled object behind a
 lame prosecution, on which the structure of the prosecution rests and the
 like would justify the High Court in quashing the proceeding in the interest
 of justice. The ends of justice are higher than the ends of mere law though
 justice has got to be administered according to the laws made by the
 legislature. The compelling necessity for making these observations is that
 without a proper realisation of the object and the purpose of the provision
 which seeks to save the inherent powers of the High Court to do justice,
 between the State and its subjects, it would be impossible to appreciate the
 width and contours of that salient jurisdiction. 10. In the law laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of State of Haryana
 and others v. Bhajan Lal and others , reported in 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335, 561-A Cr.P.C . No.75/2013 Page 9 of 18 the Supreme Court has elaborately considered the scope of Section 482 Cr.
 P.C. In this case the Supreme Court had the occasion to determine the
 power of the High Court to quash the entire criminal proceeding including
 the FIR. The case under scrutiny arose out of an FIR registered under Sections 161 , 165 IPC and Section 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption
 Act, 1947. After noticing the earlier pronouncements on the subject, the
 Supreme Court detailed with lace certain categories of cases by way of
 illustration where power under Section 482 of the Cr. P.C. can be exercised
 to prevent the abuse of the process of the Court or secure the ends of
 justice. Paragraph 102 of the judgment provides seven categories of cases
 where the provisions of Section 482 Cr. P.C. can be invoked and these are
 extracted below: 11. Testing the instant case on the standards of the law laid down above, what
 requires to be looked into at the first blush is whether the criminal
 proceedings initiated against the accused are manifestly attended with mala
 fides and devised to wreck vengeance on the accused and whether the
 allegations made in the FIR or the complaint, if taken at their face value
 and accepted in their entirety, do prima facie constitute an offence or make
 out a case against the accused. The respondent No.3 has banked upon an
 agreement to sell, allegedly executed by the petitioners in his favour by
 which it is said that they agreed to put a house to sale in his favour but
 backed out subsequently from this promise. To put it in other words, the
 contention of the informant i.e. the respondent No.3 is that the petitioners
 did not specifically perform the contract, which they executed in his
 favour. Such a course gives rise to civil consequences. Section 54 of the
 Transfer of Property Act makes it clear that an agreement to sell does not
 itself create any interest or title on immoveable property. Transfer of
 Immoveable Property by way of sale can be by a deed of convenience i.e. 561-A Cr.P.C . No.75/2013 Page 11 of 18 sale. An agreement to sell would fall short of the requirement of Sections
 54 & 55 of Transfer of Property Act and will not create any interest or
 charge on such property. 12. Specific performance is an equitable remedy in the law of contract,
 whereby a court issues an order requiring a party to perform a specific act
 that is to complete the performance of a contract. It is an equitable relief
 which a Civil Court can grant instead of directing the payment of money.
 Specific performance in real estate term means when either the buyer or
 the seller wants to complete the sale under the agreed terms and conditions
 in the agreement to sell. An agreement to sell is a contract between the
 buyer and seller of the property in which like any other contract, the deal
 can go wary. Therefore, it is important for both the buyer and the seller to
 pay due consideration while making or accepting the offer. If the deal does
 not materialize, one has to look into the conditions incorporated in the
 agreement to find out whether there is any clause in it which states that the
 balance money would be paid only after the buyer is satisfied with the title
 of the property or whether there is any clause whereby notice can be issued
 to the buyer for the cancellation of the agreement and seek damages, or,
 whether, there is any provision to issue legal notice to the seller for the
 cancellation of the agreement and seek damages, and to cap it all what was
 the life of the agreement. All these areas require to be determined by the
 civil courts. The SDPO, who conducted the enquiry into the matter and
 came to the conclusion that the case has a civil lineage and has to be
 determined by a civil court, was right in his conclusions. Therefore, on the
 face of what has been stated above, even if the allegations made in the FIR
 or the complaint are taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety,
 these do not constitute any offence or make out a case against the accused.
 Respondent No.3 in pursuing his claim has to knock at the doors of the
 civil court and he cannot set the criminal law into motion for implicating
 the petitioners for the commission of the offences for which the FIR has
 been registered against them. 13. The FIR against the petitioners is totally unwarranted, unjust and against
 the law for the elementary reason as stated hereinabove that the matter
 raises a civil dispute in between the parties. In „Joseph Salavaraj Vs.
 State of Gujrat & Ors.' reported in 2011 (7) SCC 59, the Supreme Court
 has viewed that a purely civil dispute can be given a colour of a criminal
 offence to wreak the vengeance against the applicant and it is necessary to
 draw a distinction between a civil wrong and a criminal one and the
 applicant cannot be allowed to go through the rigmarole of a criminal
 prosecution for a long number of years, even when admittedly a civil suit
 has been filed. 14. Admittedly, the house belonged to late Puran Chand Bhardwaj, who was
 succeeded by his wife and son namely Asha Bhardwaj and Manu
 Bhardwaj. Asha Bhardwaj and Manu Bhardwaj executed a deed of sale on
 the 30th day of April, 2015 in favour of Pardeep Jain and the said deed was
 registered by Sub Registrar, Jammu, on 2nd day of May, 2005. Pardeep
 Jain executed an irrevocable power of attorney in favour of the petitioner-
 Anil S/o Kapil Muni, which was registered by Sub Registrar, 2nd
 Additional Munsiff, Jammu on 15.02.2010. Therefore, the contention of
 respondent No.3 that the petitioner did not have the power to execute the
 deed of sale in his favour pales into insignificance. It is a spurious and a
 contrived argument, which cannot be entertained and sustained. 15. Looking at the instant case from yet another angle, the law laid down in the
 case of "Priyanka Srivastava & Anr. Versus State of U.P. & Ors."
 reported in 2015 (2) Crimes 209 is germane in the context of the decision
 of the instant case and the relevant excerpts thereof that have a direct
 bearing on the subject matter of the controversy are reproduced below
 verbatim et literatim:- After so stating the constitution Bench proceeded to state that where a
 preliminary enquiry is necessary, it is not for the purpose for verification
 or otherwise of the information received but only to ascertain whether the
 information reveals any cognizable offence. After laying down so, the
 larger Bench proceeded to state:- The aforesaid are only illustrations and not exhaustive of all conditions
 which may warrant preliminary inquiry. 120.7. While ensuring and protecting the rights of the accused and the
 complainant, a preliminary inquiry should be made time-bound and in
 any case it should not exceed 7 days. The fact of such delay and the
 causes of it must be reflected in the General Diary entry." We have referred to the aforesaid pronouncement for the purpose that on
 certain circumstances the police is also required to hold a preliminary
 enquiry whether any cognizable offence is made out or not. "