PER
DR. B.C. GUPTA, MEMBER 

 

  

 

 This
revision petition has been filed under section 21 (b) of the Consumer
Protection Act, 1986 against the impugned order dated 24.01.2013, passed by the
Delhi State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission
(for short the State Commission) in First Appeal No. 564/2011, The Manager,
Punjab National Bank & Ors. Vs. Lt. Col . Jagdeep Gahlot, vide which while
dismissing appeal, the order passed by the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum on 08.09.2011, allowing consumer complaint
No. 1638 of 2009, was upheld. 2. Briefly
stated the facts of the case are that the complainant/respondent,Lt. Col. Jagdeep Gahlot (retired) filed the consumer complaint in question
under Section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 before the District
Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum-VI, New Delhi,
saying that he had two savings bank accounts with the Punjab National Bank
(PNB), Sector-14 Branch, Gurgaon jointly with his wife Mrs.
Sarla Gahlot. The version of the complainant is that on
04.11.2008, while he was on business trip to Chandigarh, he received a
telephonic call from Mr. J.S. Beniwal,
Dy. Manager of the petitioner-Bank, stating that two transactions had been made
in his two accounts, one for Rs.26,000/- and the other
for 

Rs.19,000/- on Internet Banking and the above amounts had been withdrawn from
his savings accounts and transferred to some account in Punjab National Bank,
Moradabad. On the next day, i.e.
05.11.2008, the complainant met Mr. J.S. Beniwal in the Bank and he was shown the account details,
including photograph of the individual who had withdrawn money. He was informed by the Bank that his account
had been frozen and his money was safe and was likely to be returned in due
course of time. Thereafter, he made a
formal request to the Bank on 06.11.2009, followed by reminders for the return
of his money, but the Bank did not take any step to return money to his
account. The bank lodged an FIR with the
Police in the second week of August, 2009 and the investigation was still
pending. The bank sent him a letter on
09.10.2009, stating that the fault was of the complainant and the bank was not
accountable for the loss. The
complainant filed the consumer complaint in question, requesting for the refund
of his money along with interest @ 24% per annum and a compensation of Rs.2.00 lacs for mental harassment etc. and Rs.30,000/-
as costs of litigation. 3. In
their reply before the District Forum, Punjab National Bank denied allegations,
saying that their Internet banking system had not been hacked by anyone and was
working alright. On the contrary, the
complainant had not been able to manage his Internet Log-in and Password properly
in a secure manner, which resulted in transfer of money from his accounts and
the Bank was not responsible for the loss in any manner. It has also been stated in the reply that for
both the accounts, the Internet ID and passwords were duly delivered to the
complainant on 01.09.2008 as per his instructions and acknowledgement for the
same was also taken. The transfer took
place to account of one Shri Sahil
Mallick at Moradabad, Civil Lines Branch of Punjab
National Bank, from where the money was withdrawn by the account holder on the
same day from different ATMs. The
transfer took place with the help of the authorized Log-in password only and
the bank was not responsible for the transfer of the money. The bank also denied that their officer had
made any call to the complainant. 4. The
District Forum vide order dated 08.09.2011, allowed the complaint and directed
the petitioner/OP to refund Rs.45,000/- along with 9%
interest till realization, Rs.25,000/- as compensation for harassment and
Rs.10,000/- as litigation charges. An
appeal made against this order, was ordered to be dismissed by the State
Commission vide impugned order. It is
against this order that the present petition has been made. 5. Heard
the learned counsel for the petitioner and the respondent in person and
examined the record. 6. The
learned counsel for the petitioner, at the outset, stated that the version
given by the complainant in his complaint and the letter dated 06.11.2008 sent
by him to the bank were different. In the letter dated 06.11.2008 from the
complainant and his wife, it had been stated as following: 7. It
is made out from the above that the complainants learnt about the debit of the
amounts of Rs.26,000/- and Rs.19,000/- from their
accounts when the Passbooks were given to the bank for updating. In the complaint, however, it is stated that
the complainant came to know about this transfer from a telephonic call from Mr. J.S. Beniwal on 04.11.2008,
after which he visited the Bank on 05.11.2008. The two versions are entirely different. Further, the learned counsel argued that the bank had provided Internet
Passwords for the two accounts of the complainant and his wife on 01.09.2008 as
per his request and the complainant had signed the relevant receipt, a copy of
which had been placed on record. Thereafter, on 05.09.2008, the Log-in Password as well as Transaction
Password had been changed, obviously by the complainant himself. It was clear therefore, that the two payments
in question had been made through Internet banking using the transaction
password. No official of the bank was
responsible in the matter in any manner; neither any employee had been named or
prosecuted during police investigation. Learned counsel vehemently argued that if any fraud had been committed
in the matter, it was the subject of criminal investigation only. The consumer foras
were not concerned in any manner with the case as there has been no deficiency
in service in any manner. The learned
counsel stated that if the Internet banking system maintained by the bank had
been hacked in any manner, it would have amounted to loss of crores of rupees, but in the present case, an amount of
only 

Rs.45,000/- was involved. Learned counsel
further stated that as per the terms and conditions governing Internet Banking,
the Bank was not liable for any loss due to unauthorized transfer of funds
through unauthorized access, phishing attacks, and hijack or by way of any
other cyber-attacks etc. Learned counsel
has also drawn our attention to the order passed by the State Commission,
saying that the State Commission had taken an erroneous view while deciding the
appeal in question. The orders passed by
the District Forum and confirmed by the State Commission should therefore be
set aside and the complaint should be dismissed. 8. In
reply, the respondent stated in person that he was informed about the said
incident by the Deputy Manager of the Bank as stated in his complaint and he
had also gone to the bank the next day, when he was told that his money shall
be returned. The respondent/complainant
stated that the said transaction had not been carried out by him. He also stated that the person involved in
the said incident had carried out two more such transactions in which the bank
branch at Chennai was involved. The
complainant also stated that he had received only one password from the bank
and not the transaction password. He
admitted that he had changed the Internet password received from the bank, but
the transaction password was not received by him. The complainant has also drawn our attention
to E-mail messages exchanged between him and one Vijaya
Kumar about similar incident. He also
referred to copies of the screen-shots about the Internet banking, saying that
the bank had manipulated the same. 9. We
have examined the entire material on record and given a thoughtful
consideration to the arguments advanced before us. The basic issue involved in the present case
is regarding the transfer of amounts of Rs.26,000/-
and Rs.19,000/- from the accounts of the complainant and his wife to some other
accounts through Internet banking. The petitioner
has taken the stand that they had provided the User-ID, and two passwords-one
Internet Password and the other Transaction password for each account to the
complainant. The petitioner has also
produced documents to prove that the Internet password as
well as transaction password were duly changed on 05.11.2008. The bank was therefore, not responsible for
the transactions made on Internet banking. The complainant stated during the hearing before us that he had received
only one password and the transaction password was to be allotted
separately. However, the complainant has
not been able to explain in any manner how the two passwords, including the
transaction password were changed on 05.11.2008. The contention made by the complainant that
the bank had manipulated the screen-shots etc., is not substantiated by any
evidence or record. On the other hand,
the bank has been able to give a convincing explanation that their Internet
banking system was not hacked in any manner. Had there been any hacking etc., it would have resulted into loss of crores of rupees and not a small amount of only Rs.45,000/-. 10. In
so far as, the lodging of FIR with the police is concerned, the said FIR was
lodged in August, 2009 by the petitioner itself. It has been stated that the investigation
into the same has not been completed yet. From the overall facts and circumstances of the case, however, it is
clear that if any unauthorized transaction has been made by anybody, it is
subject of criminal investigation only. Any deficiency on the part of the bank towards the complainant has not
been proved anywhere and hence, it is not justified to provide relief to the
complainant by the consumer 

fora. 11. Based
on the discussion above, it is held that the District Forum as well as the
State Commission have taken an erroneous view in the
matter, resulting in injustice to the petitioner as any deficiency in service
or negligence on their part has not been established. The contention made in the complaint that one
Deputy Manager gave a telephonic call to the complainants has been denied by
the petitioner; neither it has been proved by the complainant by means of any
evidence. 12. In
view of the above facts, the present petition is allowed and the orders passed
by the State Commission and the District Forum are set aside. The consumer complaint, in question, is
ordered to be dismissed. There shall be
no order as to costs. ..Sd/ 

 

(K.S. CHAUDHARI J.) 

 PRESIDING MEMBER

 

  

 

  

 

..Sd/ 

 

(DR. B.C. GUPTA) 

 MEMBER

 

SB/4