2 Above mentioned two appeals are preferred by two appellants

assailing the judgment and order of conviction dated 26.9.2000

passed by Sri Dulal Chandra De, WBHJS, Judge, Calcutta, 3rd

Special Court at Calcutta in case No. 4 of 1989 convicting the

appellant of offences punishable under Sections 120B / 420 / 468 / 471 of the Indian Penal Code and sentencing them to suffer

rigorous imprisonment for two years and pay a fine of Rs. 2000/-

in default to suffer rigorous imprisonment for six months for each

of the offence punishable under Sections 420 / 468 read with Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code, however, no separate

sentence on conviction under Section 471 of the Indian Penal Code

was passed. Grounds taken is that the learned Judge relied on

inadmissible evidence and the impugned judgment is bad in law

and in fact. Prosecution case in brief is that in response to the

requisition sent by Deputy Commissioner of Police Headquarter

Kolkata the Directorate of Employment Exchange sponsored 1200

candidates for preliminary selection against the vacancies in the

post of constable of Calcutta Police Force. The candidates who were

requested to sponsor belonging to different Districts 24-Parganas

(North), 24-Parganas (South), Nadia, Murshidabad, Malda, West

Dinajpur, Birbhum in addition to Calcutta. From the District

Employment Exchange, Rampurhat district Employment 3 Exchange, Rampurhat, Birbhum was asked to sponsor the name of

30 (thirty) general candidates, 10 (ten) S.C. candidates, 3 (three)

S.T. candidates and 1 (one) Ex-2 serviceman candidate. The date of

interview selection was scheduled on 10th September, 1987 at 9 A.

M. at the Police training School at 247, A.J.C. Bose Road, Kolkata-

700027. From the District Employment Exchange, Rampurhat the

Deputy Commissioner of Police Headquarter Calcutta received two

lists of sponsored candidates, one was delivered by special

messenger and another was though registered post Accordingly on

7th September, 1987 D.C. Headquarter wrote a letter to the

Directorate of Employment Exchange, Kolkata on verification of the

said list Directorate of Employment Exchange Confirmed that the

list bearing receiving entry no. 10699/CRO dated 4th September,

1987 was genuine but the list for was during the candidates under

the Memo No. 10A/24/87, dated 2nd September, 1987 was fake.

Accordingly on the date of intermission at the Police Training

School the candidates whose name appeared in the fake list were

segregated from the candidates who were sponsored by genuine

list. At the time of intermission one of the candidates in fake list

Sk. Kazem Ali Khan (P.W. 9) on interrogation admitted that he gave

a bribe of Rs. 4000/- to an employee of the Sub-Divisional Judicial

Magistrate Court at Rampurhat and received the interview letter

from him. The competent authority of the Directorate of 4 Employment, thereafter, wrote letter bearing no. 1R - 16/87/SG

(43)/30097A dated 10th September, 1987 to the Deputy

Commissioner of Police Detective Department, Lalbazar, Kolkata to

investigate the matter aforesaid and take appropriate action

regarding the offence alleged. Based on the said complaint, the

authority of the Hare Street Police Station had drawn an unknown

FIR being no. 571/87 dated 19th September, 1987 under Section

120B / 420 , 420 , 468 , 477A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. The Trial Court after hearing the parties and considering the

materials available during investigation famed charge against the

three charge-sheeted accused persons under Sections

420 / 468 / 471 1PC read with section 120B IPC and also under Sections 420 / 34 IPC, 468/34 IPC and under Section 471 / 34 IPC

after the case was committed to the Court of the Judge, 3rd Special

Court, Calcutta cognizance was taken on 06.02.1989 and the trial

was started on framing of the said charges against the accused

persons/appellants herein since the appellants abjured the guilt

claiming trial. The charges against the appellants was further

amended on 31.7.1996. The prosecution examined as many as 25 (twenty five)

witnesses to substantiate the charges levelled against the

appellants and after completion of prosecution evidence, the 5 appellants were examined under Section 313 Cr.P.C. to which each

to them declined to adduce any defence witness. The defence is one of denial of charges which emerged from

the trend of cross-examination of prosecution witnesses and the

statement of the appellants. The learned Trial Court on Completion of Trial acquitted the

accused Syed Sariful Islam however, both the accused namely

Ashok Das and Sk. Sarjuman appellants in CRA 356 of 2000 and

CRA 374 of 2000 were convicted under Sections 420 / 468 / 471 / 120B IPC and sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for two

years each and a fine of Rs. 2000/- each in default to suffer further

rigorous imprisonment for six months each for committing offence

under Section 420 / 468 IPC read with Section 120B IPC and under

each count, however, no separate sentence for the offences

punishable under Section 471 of the Indian Penal Code was passed

with direction to set off the pre-trial detention undergone by the

accused persons/appellants under Section 428 Cr.P.C. and that all

sentences would run concurrently. Now, the point for decision is as to whether the judgment

impugned is tenable in law and in fact in the context of the

evidence on record and submission made on behalf of the rival

parties. Learned Advocate for the appellants invited my attention to

certain contradiction in the statement of the witnesses and

submitted that P.W. 1 Tushar Kanti Sur S.I. of Police deputed in

Central Reserve Office, Lalbazar, Kolkata deposed that a second list

Exhibit- 4 was received by Central Reserve Office, Kolkata P.S.

directly received from Rampurhat Employment Exchange through

post and also admitted that the said list, though was addressed to

D.C. Police, Head Quarters, but was not delivered to that office

address. Even in Exhibit- 4, there was no endorsement by the

Central Reserve Office (CRO). P.W. 2 Ashim Kr. Pathak, Constable in 1987 was attached to

Central Reserve Office, Lalbazar deposed in his cross-examination

that the letters addressed to the D.C., Head Quarters is not

received by the Central Reserve Office (CRO) of Kolkata Police and

P.W. 3 also corroborated the said P.W. 2 that the office of the

Central Reserve Office of Kolkata Police did not receive any such

letter. Yet, the letter being marked as Exhibit- 4, though addressed

to the D.C., Head Quarters was allegedly received by the Central

Reserve Office (CRO) of Kolkata Police. P.W. 3 stated in his examination-in-chief that there was no

enclosure with the letter bearing no. 10A/24/87 dated 02.9.1987

Exhibit- 4 purportedly received from the Rampurhat Employment

Exchange but he had received the said letter Exhibit- 4 and put the 7 receiving seal with the receiving entry number as 10703 upon it.

P.W. 1 stated that the said letter Exhibit- 4 was entered in the

Received Register vide serial no. 10703 by the P.W. 2, namely,

Ashim Kumar Pathak. P.W. 4 stated in his cross-examination that by perusing the

registration number and NCO he ascertained the fake nature of the

list in question. But in his following statements it is found that

there was no difference in terms of NCO numbers nor in terms of

registration number or educational qualification. He also admitted

that he had not seen the said lists earlier and after getting the

same, did not verify both the lists at Rampurhat Employment

Exchange, where both the lists were purportedly made. It is submitted further that the P.W. 9, Kazen Ali Khan one of

the victims of crime was declared hostile because he stated that he

did not get any letter at the interview at Calcutta Police Training

School but at the same time, he has stated that he went to Police

Training School, Calcutta on 10.9.1987 to face interview. He has

learnt about his call letter in the exchange in his name by the

villager. Exhibit- 13 bears his signature. He has also signed on

Exhibits- 14, 15 & 16 on four documents at Rampurhat Exchange.

He had identified the accused persons/appellants during trial. His

evidence could reveal that he had been to Calcutta Police Training

School but he could not know why he was not allowed to appear in 8 the interview. Though, he has denied having made any statement

to the police. My attention is also invited to the evidence of Santiram

Ghosh, P.W. 10 victim presently Constable of Kolkata Police who

has stated on oath that in 1987 he went to accused Sk. Sarjuman

of SDJM Court, Rampurhat and he requested him to arrange for a

call letter for the post of Constable in Kolkata Police. Said Sk.

Sarjuman went to Rampurhat Employment Exchange and the said

P.W. 10 was kept waiting outside the office. Said Sk. Sarjuman had

talked to Ashok Babu, a Clerk in the said Employment Exchange

and both of the accused. The P.W. 10 has identified both the said

accused persons/appellants herein. He deposed that said Ashok

asked him to pay a sum of Rs. 1000/- for getting a call letter and

told him that he need not come to pay him the money rather he

has to pay through Sk. Sarjuman, the another accused. On the

following day P.W. 10 paid Sk. Sarjuman a sum of Rs. 1000/- in

Rampurhat SDJM Court and seven days after said Sarjuman

handed over to him a call letter for employment for Calcutta Police.

When he was in the queue at PTS for interview he along with nine

others were called out of the queue by the police and police officer

told them that their registration cards Exhibits- 17 and call letters

Exhibits- 18 were forged documents. In cross-examination P.W. 10 has unequivocally stated on

oath that he had given Rs. 1000/- to Ashok Das through accused

Sk. Sarjuman. Therefore, his evidence is unimpeachable. P.W. 11 Sk. Moor Salim is another victim who has stated on

oath that for the purpose of getting a call letter, he paid a sum of

Rs. 3,000/- at a time to Ashok Das and another sum of Rs. 3,000/-

was also paid for call letter in favour of his nephew Ansur Ali. In cross-examination he has stated on oath that he had a

contract with accused Ashok Das for payment of Rs. 18,000/- in

all. He made payment to him at Prachi Hotel, Rampurhat and

during such discussion accused Sk. Sarjuman was present. He

went to the house of accused Sk. Sarjuman and had paid to him

Rs. 3,000/- himself and Rs. 3,000/- for nephew and then he had

collected call letter at Rampurhat Employment Exchange. He has

proved his call letter as Exhibit- 20 but he was told by Police

Officer at PTS when he went for interview that his call letter was a

forged document. Sri Swapan Kumar Mondal, P.W. 17 is also the victim of

crime who deposed that Sk. Sarjuman had asked him to pay Rs.

3,000/- for getting a call letter and that he would have to pay to

him further sum of Rs. 12,000/- after recruitment and upon

payment of Rs. 3,000/- has was given a call letter and he went to 10 PTS, Calcutta for interview on 10th September, 1987 but he was

not allowed to attend the interview and testimonials being identity

card and call letters were taken from him which were forged

documents. It is also submitted on behalf of the appellants that the said

prosecution witnesses Nos. 9, 10, 11 and 17 did not go to appellant

Sk. Sarjuman to manage any employment as a Police Constable

and their evidence in cross-examination creates doubt in the

prosecution case in respect of the bribe given to any of the

appellants for getting employment card and a call letter for the said

post of Constable. It is submitted that Sk. Kalim Hossein, P.W. 19 a seizure list

witness was declared hostile by the prosecution, disapproving the

prosecution case in respect of the seizure of Type Writer machine

by the I.O. I am of the view that simply because a witness has been

declared hostile, his evidence cannot be rejected on that ground

alone and the evidence reveals that he identified one accused called

Safi in Judge Court premises, therefore, it cannot be said that

there has been absolute hollowness of the prosecution case

revealing lacunae in the investigation procedure. Sri Biswanath Hazra P.W. 20 LDC under Directorate of

Employment was posted in Dispatch Section in 1987 who has 11 testified the fact that on 24.6.1987 entry no. 20785-813A (2) are in

his hand writing and proved letters sent to 28 (twenty-eight)

employment officers in charge with copy to Deputy Commissioner

of Police, Lalbazar Head Quarters, Kolkata and Employment Officer

in Charge, North Calcutta Exhibit- 52 which was dispatched by

him under the letter Exhibit- 25. Md. Sahadat P.W. 21 testified the fact that search was

conducted by Police in the house of Sk. Sarjuman and he had

signed on the paper Exhibit- 53. P.W. 22 Tapan Kumar Debangshi was also a victim who

deposed that his name was due to be forwarded to the Calcutta

Police Line by Suri Employment Exchange and he had met Sk.

Sarjuman at Employment Exchange who told P.W. 22 that if he

paid him Rs. 2,000/- then he would arrange for sending his name

to Calcutta Police Line. One week thereafter accused Sk. Sarjuman

came to his house in village and gave him the documents against

payment of Rs. 2,000/- in cash. Thereafter, he came to Calcutta

Police Line on 10.9.1987 to face interview and he was called by

police and the documents were collected from him and the police

had told him that those documents were fake. Having considered the oral testimony of P.W. 22, I do not

agree with the contention of the learned Advocate for the appellants 12 that he did not stay in Village- Belia at the relevant point of time

and failed to remember the location where the appellant Sk.

Sarjuman used to reside in view of the fact that the Charge-sheet

shows the address of P.W. 22 at Village- Belia. P.W. 23 Tushar Kanti Guha was Officer-in-Charge of

Mohammad Bazar P.S. in the year 1987 who had conducted raid in

the house of the appellant after he had received a requisition on

11.9.1987 from S.I. of Police D.D., Calcutta for assisting and

conducting the search in his P.S. area in connection with Hare

Street P.S. Case No. 571/87, Exhibit- 57. The search was

conducted in presence of local witnesses in the house of Sk.

Sarjuman. One personal diary was recovered containing Accounts

of deals of monetary transaction in different pages which was

seized under a seizure list bearing his signature Exhibit- 3/1 and

the seized diary Exhibit-54. Sujoy Kumar Chanda, P.W. 24 a seizure list witness was

Statistical Assistant in Rampurhat Employment Exchange in

respect of a seizure list of one rubber stamp impression, two pink

colour blank Identity Cards and two blank proforma call letters

wherein he himself and one Pulak Palit put their signatures as

Exhibits- 59 and 59/1 and the material seized have been proved as

MAT Exhibit- I. He knew the hand writing of accused Ashok Kumar

Das in the entry dated 27.7.1987 in the vacancy order register 13 (Exhibit- 32/15/1) and the receipt in the hand writing of said

Ashok Kumar Das proved as Exhibit- 33/14/1 and the entry serial

no. 259261 dated 2.9.1987 as Exhibit- 33/14/2 in the hand

writing of Ashok Kumar Das. Prabir Kumar Dasgupta, P.W. 25 S.I. of Police D.D. Lalbazar

Investigating and Recording Officer has proved the FIR Exhibit- 60

and a complaint addressed to Dy. Commissioner of Police, D.D.,

Lalbazar from Sri R.P. Ghosh Additional Director of Employment,

Government of West Bengal on the subject of selection of

Constable/ Sepoys of Calcutta Police for the recruitment in the

year 1988 for the fake candidates which complaint was proved an

Exhibit- 11. After completion of investigation, I.O. submitted

Charge-sheet. On appraisal of the evidence of the I.O., I do not find

any lacunae in his investigation. Per contra, at the outset, it is submitted on behalf of State

respondent that the allegation against both the appellants are quite

serious as they took money from the victims (unemployed youth)

and by preparing false documents namely fake and false call letters

and handed over the same to the victims and simultaneously

prepared fake and false office memo referring the names of the

victims and communicated the same to the D.C., Headquarter as if

they were nominated by the Concerned Employment Exchange

Rampurhat. As I have discussed above that as many as 25 (twenty-five)

prosecution witnesses were examined out of them four were the

victims P.W. 9 Kazem Ali Khan, P.W. 10 Shanti Ram Ghosh, P.W.

11 Sk. Moor Selim, P.W. 17 Swapan Kumar Mondal and P.W. 12

Tapan Debangshi. The other witnesses are witness of seizure of

different incriminating materials, police personnel and others. As

regards doubt on forged list Exhibit- 4, it is submitted that it was

not received directly at the office of D.C. Police Headquarter and it

was delivered to them from the office of Central Reserve Office

(CRO), Kolkata Police, although, addressed to D.C. Headquarter as

revealed from the evidence in chief of P.W. l who categorically

stated that the list Exhibit- 4 was received directly from the

Rampurhat Employment Exchange to their office by post and the

forwarding letter along-with the list Exhibit- 4 has been duly

entered in the receipt resister vide serial no. 10703 although it is

claimed by the appellant there was no endorsement by the ICRO

but in his cross-examination the P.W. 1 stated that endorsement of

CRO is not compulsory. Sometimes such list directly received by

CRO and sometimes the P.W. 1 received the list and put it to the

CRO. He further stated he could have dealt with any papers in

recruitment section without any endorsement by the CRO and

papers so received when they are placed before CRO he used to

give his direction either in writing or verbally. The aforesaid 15 evidence of the P.W. 1 that too in cross-examination by the defence

went unchallenged. Learned Advocate for the appellants argued that there is

doubt regarding Exhibit- 4 and invited my attention to the P.W. 2

in his cross-examination who categorically admitted that the letter

in question was received at the office of CRO. Only thing he said

that if any letter is received in closed envelop addressed to the

D.C., Headquarter they do not receive the same, but it is not the

case of prosecution that was received in a closed envelope therefore

what P.W. 2 and P.W. 3 stated are totally irrelevant to doubt the

receipt of Exhibit- 4 at the office of CR0 and no importance should

be given on it but in his chief stated that he received the letter no.

10A/24/87/259-61 dated 2nd September, 1987 Exhibit- 4 by

himself and made the necessary entry in his own handwriting in

the register book entry no, 10699, dated 4th September, 1987

whereas the P.W. 3 claimed to have receive the letter bearing no.

10A/24/87 dated 2nd September, 1987 and the same was recorded

in the register as entry no. 10703, dated 7th September, 1987. The

two letters are different and it is the specific case of the prosecution

out of those two memos the letter received against the entry no.

10699 dated 4th September, 1987 was fake while the other was

genuine. Next phase of argument under the caption "Doubt Regarding

the participation of the Appellant namely Sk. Sarjuman" from the

facts stated in Para 6, 7 and 8 the defence tried to draw support

from the evidence of P.W. 9 who was declared hostile for having

resiled from his earlier statement made during investigation before

the police. The defence referred to the evidence of P.W. 9 in his chief

that that he did not obtain any letter to appear in the said

interview at the Calcutta Police Training School and for the same

he did not approach anybody. He has also stated that he had put

his signature on some purported documents (marked as Exhibits-

13 to 16) in Rampurhat Employment Exchange. It is submitted

that after he was declared hostile he was cross-examined by the

prosecution on this score to establish what he stated in the court

in chief is contrary to his earlier statement before the police. It is well settled that no part of evidence of a hostile witness

can be acted upon by the court to reach to any decision as to the

guilt or innocence of an accused relying on that part of evidence on

which reference to his earlier statement. Equally it is settled law

that even after a witness is declared hostile by the prosecution, his

evidence, as a matter of law cannot be treated as washed of the

record altogether. Still that part of the evidence of such witness, 17 which was not confronted by the prosecution and if the same is

corroborated by other evidence can be relied upon. I have discussed that the P.W. 10 Shanti Ram Ghosh who is now a

Constable in Calcutta Police was one of the victims who identified both

the appellants namely, Ashok Kumar Das and Sk. Sarjuman in

court. According to his evidence accused Sk. Sarjuman of SDJM

court Rampurhat took him to Rampurhat Employment Exchange

and kept him waiting outside and said Sk. Sarjuman went inside

the office and then introduced him with the appellant Ashok Das a

clerk of Rampurhat Employment Exchange. Accused Ashok told

P.W.10 to pay Rs. 1000/- for the call letter and asked him to pay

through appellant Sk. Sarjuman and on the following day he paid

the money to the said Sk. Sarjuman and accused Sarjuman after

7/8 days handed over to him the call letter. On 10th September,

1987 when he came to Calcutta Police Training School, the Police

Office told him that the call letter was forged. Even if the P.W. 10 stated in his cross-examination that he

was introduced with the appellant Ashok Kumar Das by the

appellant Sk. Sarjuman and before that he was only familiar with,

is beyond comprehension. So, his evidence in chief clearly proved

the prosecution case beyond doubt. No doubt an FIR was drawn against unknown person but the

P.W. 10 stated in his cross-examination that on the same day he

divulged the name of appellant to the investigation officer about

their involvement in the monetary transactions. FIR was lodged by

P.W. 4 Ramajit Prasama Ghosh who was told by one of the

candidates P.W. 9 Kazem Ali Khan that he got the said fake

interview letter from an employee of employment exchange of

Rampurhat. Non-examination of Deb Kumar Pal who according to

P.W. 10 introduced him to the appellant Sk. Sarjuman is not fatal

to the prosecution inasmuch as the evidence of P.W. 10 stood the

test of cross-examination who is also a victim of cheating. P.W. 11 Sk. Moor Selim another victim of the case identified

both the accused Sk. Sarjuman and Ashok Das in the Court who

categorically stated that both appellant Ashok Das and Sk.

Sarjuman assured him that they would arrange a call letter in his

farvour for his employment in Calcutta Police. The further claimed

have paid Rs. 3,000/- as advance for the call letter and another Rs.

3,000/- for his nephew's call letter to Ashok Das and then after

mailing payment of another Rs. 15000/- he got the call letter

Exhibit- 20 from appellant Ashok Das and on the strength of said

call letter on 10th September, 1987 he appeared for the interview

and he was told that the call letter is fake. He had a contract with

Ashok Das for a payment of Rs. 18,000/- in total. He made the 19 payment to Ashok Das at Prachi Hotel at Rampurhat in presence of

Sk. Sarjuman. The witness claimed that he knew Ashok Das a

clerk of Rampurhat Employment Exchange and Ashok Das used to

take money from others for arranging call letter for their jobs. There are two other victims of the instant case. They are P.W.

17 Sri Swapan Kumar Mondal and P.W. 22 Tapan Kumar

Debangshi. P. W. 17 Sri Swapan Kumar Mondal has clearly stated in his

evidence that accused Sk. Sarjuman told him that he would have

to pay Rs. 3,000/- for getting a call letter. He further told him that

after recruitment he would have to pay him a further sum of Rs,

12,000/- only. Some days before the date of recruitment at

Calcutta police Sk. Sarjuman came and took Rs. 3,000/- from his

elder brother Sadhan Mondal where he was also present. Five days

before the recruitment accused Sk. Sarjuman gave him the identity

card of employment and a call letter. On 10th September, 1987 he

came to P.T.S., Calcutta for interview but he was not allowed to

attend the interview. P.W. 22 Sri Tapan Kumar Debnshi has stated

in his evidence that accused Sarjuman told him that if he pays him

Rs. 2,000/- then he would arrange for sending his name to

Calcutta Police line. One week thereafter accused Sarjuman came

to his house at Vill.- Ganpur, P.S.- Saithia, Dist.- Birbhum and

gave him two documents. At that time he paid accused Sk. 20 Sarjuman Rs. 2,000/- in cash. Thereafter, he came to Calcutta

Police Line for the interview. He reached Calcutta Police Training

School on 10th September, 1987 at 12 noon. There he stood in

queue. His name was called out and police collected documents

from him and stated to him that these were fake documents. Having scrutinized the evidence on record and the

documentary evidence adduced by the prosecution and on perusal

of the judgment impugned, I find that the learned Trial Court

correctly came to a finding on the basis of analysis of the evidence

that the appellants accused namely, Ashok Kumar Das and Sk.

Sarjuman hatched a criminal conspiracy and committed forgery by

issuing fake employment cards and call letters to various

candidates including the victim witnesses of the prosecution to

cheat the unemployed youths against payment of illegal

gratification. Identity of the accused persons in the trial by the

prosecution witnesses is not at all in doubt. The registration card

and the call letters on the Exhibit lists were examined by the

questioned document examiner and examiner's report Exhibits- 43

and 44 corroborate the fact that the documents issued to the

prosecution witnesses were suspicious and fake documents. The

evidence in its totality are creditworthy, although, there might be

minor contradictions in minor details but that cannot be regarded 21 as very material or as positive proof of the mendacity of the

witnesses and the case cannot be thrown out on that account. Giving and anxious consideration to the facts and

circumstances of the case and having sifted the chaff from gains, I

hold that the judgment impugned cannot be faulted which in my

view in well reasoned, accordingly, the findings of fact holding the

appellants accused persons namely Ashok Kumar Das and Sk.

Sarjuman guilty of charges and conviction and sentence to

Rigorous Imprisonment for two years and fine of Rs. 2,000/- each

in default to suffer further R.I. for six months each for commission

of offence under Section 420 / 468 IPC read with Section 120B IPC

vide judgment dated 26.9.2000 in Case No. 4 of 1987 passed by

learned Judge, Calcutta 3rd Special Court deserves to be

maintained and hereby affirmed. Learned Advocate for the appellants pleaded for reduction of

the sentence to the period suffered by appellants. I am of the view

in considering the nature and gravity of the offence that reduction

of the sentence cannot be allowed on the score of long lapse of time

from the date of conviction, particularly when the sentence

imposed by trial Court is only for a period of two years each which

is less than the half of the maximum period of sentence prescribed

for 7 (seven) years of rigorous imprisonment. Accordingly, the CRA 356 of 2000 ( Ashok Kumar Das vs. The

State of West Bengal ) and CRA 374 of 2000 ( Sk. Sarjuman vs. The

State of West Bengal ) are hereby dismissed and consequently, the

appellants are directed to surrender before the learned Trial Court

to serve out the sentence within two weeks from the date hereof in

default learned Trial Court will be at liberty to take coercive step for

their production and to do the needful. Let a copy of this judgment together with the LCR be sent

down to the learned Trial Court forthwith for information and

needful action. Urgent certified Photostat copy of this Judgment, if applied

for, be supplied to the parties upon compliance with all requisite

formalities. (SHIVAKANT PRASAD, J.)