- 1 A common question arises for consideration in all the
Commercial Arbitration Petitions clubbed together and placed
before me, being; whether in the wake of the Constitution Bench
judgment in the case of N.N.Global Mercantile Vs. Indo Unique
Flame Ltd. & Ors.1 , the Court, which is to decide the Petition
filed under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
1996 (for short, " Arbitration Act "), seeking relief in form of
interim measures, can entertain the same, despite noticing that
the Agreement is not stamped or insufficiently stamped and
suffers from a legal deficiency. The Petitions were clubbed together, as they prayed
for interim relief under Section 9 of the Act of 1996 and the relief
is opposed by the Respondents in each Petition, on the ground
that the document/instrument, which is construed as an

1 (2023) 7 SCC 1

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 4/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

Arbitration Agreement or containing an Arbitration Clause is not
adequately stamped or it is unstamped. The contest is between the two set of the counsels;
one, specifically arguing that the Constitution Bench has declared
that, the bar contained in Section 35 of the Stamp Act applicable
to Instruments chargeable to stamp duty, is also applicable to
Arbitration Agreements and, therefore, it renders the Arbitration
Agreement contained in such a document or a stand alone
Arbitration Agreement, on which the stamp duty is payable as
being non existent and, therefore, it is not enforceable as long as it
remains in the said condition as it has been held that such an
Agreement can be validated only by the process contemplated in
the Stamp Act . It is argued that the five-Judge Bench in
N.N.Global has categorically held that, not every Agreement is a
Contract and only those Agreements, which are enforceable, are
treated as Contracts, with a further consequence of such a
Contract ceasing to be enforceable i.e. Contract being void. The counsel who have argued against the proposition, premise
their submissions, by urging that the "subject Agreement" relating
to the "subject matter of dispute in arbitration" or "Arbitration
Agreement", if it is not stamped or inadequately stamped, having
regard to the applicable Article in the Maharashtra Stamp Act,
1958 or the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 , then such an Agreement has
no existence at all. The argument advanced by the respective
counsel canvassing that Section 9 Petition, cannot be entertained,
Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 5/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

in absence of the Arbitration Agreement or a clause in an
Agreement, being the basis of relief sought in the Petition, have
strenuously asserted that the stamping of the document is a
substantive objection and the Court will not come to offer an aid
to the Petitioner in case of an invalid document. However, it is the projection of those, who argue in
favour of the Court entertaining Section 9 Petition that,
N.N.Global deal with the Application under Section 11 of the
Act, in contrast Section 9 stand on a different footing, as the
former is a part of an evidentiary proceedings i.e. the proceedings
that will continue the trial and culminate into an Award, but as far
as Section 9 relief is concerned, it is merely in form of interim
measure and it is not a stage to ascertain, whether the document
is stamped or not. 2 The cleavage in the argument is projected through the
learned counsel Mr.Anoshak Davar, appearing in CARBPL
11848/2023 and CARAP 7227/2023, Mr.Kedar Wagle appearing
in CARBP 267/2019, Mr.Akash Rebello appearing in CARBP
1430/2023 and Mr.Vishal Kanade appearing in CARAPL
32021/2022 and CARBPL 32027/2022. Learned counsel Mr.Mayur Khandeparkar,
Mr.Rushabh Seth and Mr.Shanay Shah, representing the
Respondents and opposing the grant of relief in Section 9 Petition, have asseverated that the Agreement, which is

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 6/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

unenforceable on account of the substantive law like the Stamp
Act , would not be a Contract, within the meaning of Section 2(g) of the Contract Act, 1872 and, since, the Constitution Bench has
now categorically held, that if the Agreement is enforceable, then
only it would become a Contract with a necessary implication that
it is only if the Arbitration Agreement is valid in law, it would
bind the parties, as an existing Contract and as long, it remains
unstamped, it is not capable of being enforced in law. 3 In order to appreciate the rival contentions and before
I make reference to the contentions advanced by the respective
counsel, it is necessary for me to set out the background, as to
why this connundrum has arisen. The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 an
enactment relating to domestic arbitration, international
commercial arbitration and providing for enforcement of foreign
arbitral awards, is enacted in the backdrop of the United Nations
Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) having
adopted Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration in
1985. In order to bring uniformity in the law of arbitral
procedure, which specifically refers to the needs of international
commercial arbitration practice, the General Assembly of United
Nations recommended that all countries give due consideration
to the said Model Law. In order to the necessitated amendments
in the existing Arbitration Law and even in the recent times,
substantial amendments are effective from time to time. Agreement" in terms of Section 7 , means an Agreement by the
parties to submit to arbitration, all or certain disputes, which have
arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defined
legal relationship, whether contractual or not. It is permissible to
have an Arbitration Agreement in form of an arbitration clause in
the Contract or it may be in a form of separate Agreement, but it
must necessarily be in writing. A writing contained in a document, signed by the
parties or exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of
telecommunication, including communication through electronic
means, which provide a record of the Agreement or exchange of
statement of claim and defence would also fall within the ambit of Section 7 . Section 8 of the Act of 1996 is a power conferred
upon a judicial authority before which an action is brought in a
matter, which is the subject of an Arbitration Agreement to refer
the parties to arbitration unless it finds that prima facie no valid
Arbitration Agreement exists. Reading of the lead provisions of the Act, it is evident
that whenever any action is brought by any party to an
Arbitration Agreement or any person claiming through or under
him, arising out of it, then the Court shall refer the matter for
arbitration, subject to the stipulation that the proceedings are

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 8/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

accompanied by the original Arbitration Agreement or duly
certified copy thereof. 4 One of the most important and significant provision
of the Act is Section 9 , which is titled as "Interim measures, etc.
by Court" and to understand the scope of the provision, I must
reproduce the same:- Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 9/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

 (2) Where, before the commencement of the arbitral
 proceedings, a Court passes an order for any interim measure of
 protection under sub-section (1), the arbitral proceedings shall be
 commenced within a period of ninety days from the date of such
 order or within such further time as the Court may determine. (3) Once the arbitral tribunal has been constituted, the Court
 shall not entertain an application under sub-section (1), unless
 the Court finds that circumstances exist which may not render the
 remedy provided under section 17 efficacious." 5 From the reading of the aforesaid, it is evident that
the Court has jurisdiction to entertain an application under Section 9 , either before the commencement of the arbitral
proceedings or during pendency or even after the making of the
Arbitral Award, but before it is enforced in terms of Section 36 of
the Act. It is well accepted proposition, that the Court under Section 9 is only formulating interim measures, so as to protect
the rights under adjudication before the Arbitral Tribunal from
being frustrated. The reliefs, which the Court may allow to a
party under clauses (i) and (ii) of sub-section (1) of Section 9 flow from the power vested in the Court exercisable by reference
to "contemplated", "pending" or "completed" arbitral proceedings. The exercise of the power by the Court under Section
9 is, however, subject to two riders, in form of sub-sections (2)
and (3); i.e. when an order of interim measures is made before
commencement of arbitral proceedings, the proceedings shall be
commenced within a period of 90 days from passing of such order
or within such time, as the Court may determine. The second

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 10/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

rider, being once the Tribunal is constituted, the Court shall not
entertain an application for interim relief, unless circumstances
exist to render the remedy under Section 17 , inefficacious. 6 Another significant provision, which would warrant
attention for the purpose of determining the issue placed before
me is, Section 11 , which relate to the appointment of Arbitrators. Section 11 is an entire scheme, which provide for
appointment of an Arbitrator, and the parties have the autonomy
to agree on the procedure of appointment. However, when under
an appointment procedure agreed between the parties, if a party
fails to act as required or the parties, or the two appointed
Arbitrators, fail to reach an agreement, expected of them under
that procedure or if a person, including an institution, fails to
perform any function entrusted to him or it, then the
appointment shall be effected, on an application of the party, by
the arbitral institution designated by the Supreme Court, in case
of international commercial arbitration, or by the High Court, in
case of arbitrations other than international commercial
arbitration, as the case may be. I must, at this stage make brief reference to Section 17 of the Act, which permit a party, during the arbitral proceedings
to apply to the Arbitral Tribunal, for securing certain interim
measures, similar to the interim measures, which the Court is
competent to grant under Section 9 of the Act, and the Arbitral

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 11/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

Tribunal is conferred with the same power for making orders, as
the Court has for the purpose of, and in relation to, any
proceedings before it. 7 In the Arbitration Petitions that are listed before me,
an objection is raised about the Arbitration Agreement or any
such document/ instrument, which is sought to be projected as an
Arbitration Agreement, since it comprise of an Arbitration
Clause, having not been adequately stamped and the learned
counsel for the Petitioners have argued that if the case is made out
for grant of ad-interim/interim relief under Section 9 , the Court
ought not to reject consideration of the same, merely on the
ground that the Agreement in question needs to be adjudicated
for payment of stamp duty, before grant of such relief. At this juncture, I must refer to the exposition of law
on the aspect of inadequacy of stamping of an Arbitration
Agreement or the effect of an unstamped Agreement in the
context of Section 9 in successiveness. A learned single Judge of this Court, by order dated
06/09/2018, in the case of Gautam Landscapes Pvt. Ltd. Vs.
Shailesh S. Shah & Anr. (Arbitration Petition No.466 of 2017) ,
formulated a question to be placed before the Hon'ble The Chief
Justice, for being referred to the Larger Bench for consideration
and the order record as under :- A Larger Bench was accordingly constituted and the
following issue was framed for consideration :- Approximately at the same time, in the case of Vijay
Sharma Vs. Vivek Makhija & Anr. (Arbitration Application
No.311 of 2018), another single Judge of this Court, by order
dated 20/12/2018, referred the following question of law for
consideration to the Larger Bench, pertaining to sub-section (6)
of Section 11 to the following effect :- 8 The Larger Bench, headed by Hon'ble The Chief
Justice N.H.Patil (As His Lordship was then), framed the
following issue for consideration :- 9 The above reference orders, though divergent in
respect of the effect of an unstamped document at the stage of Section 9 and that of Section 11 , placed for consideration, found
answers in Gautam Landscapes Private Limited & Ors. Vs.
Shailesh S. Shah & Ors.2

 While propounding upon the issue referred to it, the
Full Bench made reference to a catena of decisions, which
included the decision of the Apex Court in the case of SMS Tea
Estates (P) Ltd. Vs. Chandmari Tea Co. (P) Ltd. 3 as well as the
decision in the case of M/s.Duro Felguera Vs. Gangavaram Port
Ltd.4 and distinct views of the single Judges of the Bombay High
Court. On extensive examination of the Act of 1996 as well
as the divergent views expressed in the decisions cited before it,
the Full Bench recorded it's conclusions in the following terms :- Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 15/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

10 It can be thus recapitulated from the decision of the
Full Bench of the Bombay High Court that the first question
referred to it, whether it is permissible for a Court to entertain
and grant any interim or ad-interim relief in a Petition under Section 9 of the Act, when the document containing arbitration
clause is unstamped or insufficiently stamped, is answered in the
affirmative. The second issue pertaining to Section 11 (6- A) of the
Act of 1996, as to whether it would be necessary for the Court
before considering and passing final orders on an application
under Section 11(6) of the Act to await the adjudication by the
Stamp Authorities, in case the document is not adequately
stamped, was answered in the negative. The Full Bench, in turn, approved the judgment of
the Division Bench in the case of Universals Enterprises Vs.
Deluxe Laboratories Pvt. Ltd.5 11 The Apex Court in the case of Garware Wall Ropes
Ltd. Vs. Coastal Marine Constructions & Engineering Ltd. 6 was
confronted with a question, whether Section 11 (6-A), which was
introduced by the Amendment Act of 2015 had removed the
basis of it's earlier judgment in the case of SMS Tea Estates (P)
Ltd. (supra), so that the stage at which the instrument was to be
impounded was not, when the Judge was hearing Section 11 5 2017(2) ALLMR 779
6 (2019)9SCC 209

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 16/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

Application, but it shall be left to an Arbitrator, who was
appointed under Section 11 of the Act. In depth analysis of the provisions of the Arbitration
Act , being juxtaposed against Sections 33 and 34 of the
Maharashtra Stamp Act, a reference was made to the Contract
Act, 1872 , as to what would amount to a Contract. It is held that
when an arbitration clause is contained in a "Contract", the
Agreement only becomes a Contract, if it is enforceable by law
and under the Indian Stamp Act ,an Agreement do not become a
Contract, unless it is duly stamped. Holding that reading Section
11 (6-A) along with Section 7(2) of the Act of 1996 and Section
2(h) of the Contract Act, a clear position surfaces, to the effect
that an arbitration clause in an Agreement, would not exist, when
it is not enforceable by law. The cleavage of opinion through distinct judgments
of the High Courts was taken note of and it was held that the law
has not been correctly laid down, but reference was made to the
Full Bench Judgment of the Bombay High Court in the case of
Gautam Landscapes Pvt. Ltd, and the answers to the two
questions framed in the Judgment were taken note of. Taking note of the answers to the reference in Gautam Landscapes Pvt. Ltd. (supra), Justice Rohinton Nariman
(As His Lordship was then) held that question No.2 having
answered by the Full Bench of the Bombay High Court, is
contrary to it's judgment and, therefore, was incorrectly decided. The Appeal was, therefore, allowed, by setting aside
the judgment of the Bombay High Court and the observations in
the concluding paragraph of the judgment are relevant and, need
reproduction:- 12 Pursuant to this decision, Justice G.S.Kulkarni in Saifee Developers Private Ltd. Vs. Sanklesha Constructions &
Ors.7 has noted as under :- 13 The three-Judge Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in M/s.N.N.Global Mercantile (P) Limited Vs. M/s.Indo
Unique Flame Ltd. & Ors,8, expounded, on the effect of an
Arbitration Clause contained in a Contract, which require
stamping under the Stamp Act and clarified that the law,
premised on the 'Doctrine of Separability' of an Arbitration
Agreement, by holding that since arbitration agreement is an
independent agreement between the parties, the non-payment of
stamp duty on the commercial contract, would not invalidate the
Arbitration clause, or render it unenforceable, since it had it's
independent existence. It was held to be a deficiency curable on
payment of requisite stamp duty. The Bench of three learned Judges in its judgment in
N.N. Global, found that an arbitration agreement is not included
in the Schedule as an instrument chargeable to stamp duty. The
Court referred to item 12 of Schedule I to the Maharashtra Stamp
Act, 1958 , in this regard. Thereafter, it went on to find that
whether the work order was chargeable to payment of stamp duty
and opined that the non-payment or the deficiency of stamp
8 (2021) 4 SCC 379

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 19/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

duty, on the work order did not invalidate the main contract as
the Court found that the arbitration agreement was a distinct and
an independent contract and on application of the doctrine of
separability, it would not be rendered invalid, unenforceable or
non-existent, even if the substantive contract in which it is
contained, was inadmissible in evidence or could not be acted
upon, in view of it not being stamped. 14 The prevailing position of law prior to the Three
Judge decision in N.N.Global, however, was upset in N.N.
Global by holding that there is no legal impediment to the
enforceabilty of the arbitration agreement pending payment of
stamp duty on the substantive contract. However, the
adjudication of the rights and obligations would not proceed
before complying with the mandatory provisions of the Stamp
Act . Dealing with the power to be exercised under Section
11 , for appointment of an Arbitrator, it was held that the
Arbitration Clause/Agreement, contained in substantive
Contract/Instrument, on which the stamp duty has to be
compulsorily paid and when such Instrument is unstamped, it
shall be impounded by the authority, so that the deficit stamp
duty may be paid, in accordance with law and the adjudication of
the rights and obligations underlying the substantive Contract, by
the Arbitrator can be commenced. As far as interim relief under Section 9 is concerned, it is categorically held that when such
Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 20/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

Contract/Instrument is unstamped, the Court may grant ad-
interim relief to safeguard the subject matter of the arbitration,
and the parties concerned be directed to take necessary steps for
payment of requisite stamp duty in accordance with the
provisions of the Stamp Act , within a time-bound manner. In yet another decision, the Apex Court in Weatherford Oil Tool Middle East Limited Vs. Baker Hughes
Singapore Pte9 , the Bench headed by the Hon'ble the Chief
Justice, by referring to the decision of three-Judges Bench in the
case of M/s.N.N.Global Mercantile (P) Limited10, noted that the
judgment in SMS Tea Estates (P) Ltd. (supra) was overruled and,
hence, once again referred the issue that had arisen, before the
Constitution Bench of five Judges, by formulating the following
question:- It is this issue, which came to be answered by the
Constitution Bench in the case of M/s. N.N.Global Mercantile
(P) Ltd., decided on 25/04/2023. 15 The Constitution Bench on consideration of the
provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1996 as well as the exposition

9 2022 SCC OnLine 1464
10 2021(4) SCC 379

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 21/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

of law pursuant to the insertion and deletion of Section 11(6A) in
the Act, the scheme of the Stamp Act and in particular, Sections
35 , 36 , 38 and 42 discussed the issue threadbare. The relevant
observations from the said decision necessarily require a
reproduction as the question which arises before me is a fallout of
the observations from the Constitution Bench. While determining the nature of the Stamp Act , the
majority view finds expression in the following words: Apart from a person having authority to receive evidence, which,
 no doubt, would include a court and an Arbitrator, every person
 In-charge of a Public Office, before whom, such instrument is
 produced or comes in the performance of his functions, has the
 duty to impound the unstamped or insufficiently stamped
 document, arises. 93.3. Under Section 35 , the Law-Giver has disabled the
 admission in evidence of an instrument not stamped or
 insufficiently stamped, for any purpose. This would include even a
 collateral purpose. This is in stark contrast with a document,
 which is compulsorily registerable but which is not registered.
 Under Section 49 of the Registration Act, 1908, an unregistered
 document may be used for proving a collateral transaction. Even
 this is impermissible, if the document is not stamped or
 insufficiently stamped. Section 35 further proceeds to declare that
 such an unstamped or insufficiently stamped document shall not
 be acted upon. 93.4. It is important to juxtapose the embargo cast on an
 unstamped document as aforesaid with Section 2(h) of the
 Contract Act. Section 2(h) of the Contract Act provides that an
 agreement, which is enforceable in law is a contract whereas Section 2(g) , an agreement not enforceable is void. The words
 'enforceable in law' or 'not enforceable in law', understood in the
 context of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, would mean that
 upon there being an occasion, which necessitates one of the
 parties to the agreement having to enforce the same through
 recourse to sanctions available in law, the same should be
 vouchsafed to him. 93.5 Ordinarily, agreements are enforced through actions
 in Civil Courts. Remedies may be sought before Public
 Authorities. Both the Civil Courts and the Public Authorities are
 tabooed from giving effect to an unstamped instrument. Section 33 Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 23/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

 does not give a choice to the person, who has authority by law, or
 with consent, to take evidence, or to any Public Officer, but to
 impound the agreement. 93.6. The unstamped or insufficiently stamped document cannot
 be used as evidence for any purpose. It would be inconceivable,
 as to how, it could be in the same breath, be found that an
 unstamped document is yet enforceable in law or that it is not
 enforceable in law. It is another matter that the parties may act
 upon it. Goods or services may change hands, for instance, under
 a document, which may be otherwise exigible to stamp duty. What
 is, however, relevant is that the State will not extend its protection,
 by appropriate sanctions. The rights, which would otherwise have
 been available, had the agreement been stamped, would remain
 frozen or rather they would not exist. We are further reinforced in
 our view, therefore, that the views expressed by this Court in Garware (supra) in paragraph-22, following SMS Tea Estates (supra), represent the correct position in law. 16 Another relevant observation in the judgment
delivered by the Constitution Bench (majority) reads as under :- 17 The necessary conclusions are thereafter recorded in
the following words :- Q. CONCLUSIONS 161. The view taken in SMS Tea Estates (supra) as
 followed in Garware (supra) and by the Bench in
 Dharmaratnakara Rai Bahadur Arcot Narainswamy Mudaliar
 Chattram and other Charities v. Bhaskar Raju and Brothers 36 as
 to the effect of an unstamped contract containing an Arbitration
 Agreement and the steps to be taken by the Court, represent the
 correct position in law as explained by us hereinbefore. N.N.
 Global (supra) was wrongly decided, when it held to the contrary
 and overruled SMS Tea Estates (supra) and Garware (supra). 162. An instrument, which is exigible to stamp duty, may
 contain an Arbitration Clause and which is not stamped, cannot
 be said to be a contract, which is enforceable in law within the
 meaning of Section 2(h) of the Contract Act and is not enforceable
 under Section 2(g) of the Contract Act. An unstamped instrument,
 when it is required to be stamped, being not a contract and not
 enforceable in law, cannot, therefore, exist in law. Therefore, we
 approve of paragraphs-22 and 29 of Garware (supra). To this
 extent, we also approve of Vidya Drolia (supra), insofar as the
 reasoning in paragraphs-22 and 29 of Garware (supra) is
 approved. 163. The true intention behind the insertion of Section
 11(6A) in the Act was to confine the Court, acting under Section
 11 , to examine and ascertain about the existence of an Arbitration
 Agreement. 164. The Scheme permits the Court, under Section 11 of the
 Act, acting on the basis of the original agreement or on a certified
 copy. The certified copy must, however, clearly indicate the stamp
 duty paid as held in SMS Tea Estates (supra). If it does not do so,
 the Court should not act on such a certified copy. 165. If the original of the instrument is produced and it is
 unstamped, the Court, acting under Section 11 , is duty-bound to

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 27/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

 act under Section 33 of the Stamp Act as explained hereinbefore.
 When it does so, needless to say, the other provisions, which, in
 the case of the payment of the duty and penalty would culminate in
 the certificate under Section 42(2) of the Stamp Act, would also
 apply. When such a stage arises, the Court will be free to process
 the Application as per law. 166. An Arbitration Agreement, within the meaning of Section 7 of the Act, which attracts stamp duty and which is not
 stamped or insufficiently stamped, cannot be acted upon, in view
 of Section 35 of the Stamp Act, unless following impounding and
 payment of the requisite duty, necessary certificate is provided
 under Section 42 of the Stamp Act. 167. We further hold that the provisions of Sections 33 and
 the bar under Section 35 of the Stamp Act, applicable to
 instruments chargeable to stamp duty under Section 3 read with
 the Schedule to the Stamp Act , would render the Arbitration
 Agreement contained in such instrument as being non-existent in
 law unless the instrument is validated under the Stamp Act . 168. In a given case, the Court has power under
 paragraph-5 of the Scheme, to seek information from a party, even
 in regard to stamp duty. 169. We make it clear that we have not pronounced on the
 matter with reference to Section 9 of the Act. The reference to the
 Constitution Bench shall stand answered accordingly. 18 It is in the wake of the Five Judges Bench decision,
the question has arisen as to whether an application u/s.9 seeking
interim measures can be entertained in the wake of the legal
deficiency, which is held to exist, when the document is not
adequately stamped under the Stamp Act , as per the Constitution
Bench in N.N. Global, as it would not amount to a contract. 19 Mr. Akash Rebello, the learned counsel, advanced his
submission in support of the proposition that the judgment of the
Constitution Bench in N.N. Global has not altered the ability of

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 28/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

the Court to grant relief in form of interim measures under Section 9 , even in the face of an allegation that an Arbitration
Agreement or the Agreement containing arbitration clause is not
adequately stamped. According to him, the Constitution Bench was
dealing with applications under section 11 and treated them as
'non-evidentiary', however section 9 stand on a different footing,
as it is distinct in its scope and its object, being to ensure
protection of the subject matter of the arbitration at the distinct
stages of the process i.e. before the Tribunal is constituted or
during the proceedings before the Tribunal or even after passing
of the Award, and a party may require some interim reliefs and
this he can obtain through Petition filed under Section 9 . He would submit that the judgment of the
Constitution Bench had held that if an Agreement is unstamped,
it is not a Contract, but such consequence will follow only after
the determination is made about stamping, which is akin to a
Contract being valid, until it is declared as invalid. The stage at
which this determination is to be made would depend on whether
the proceedings are evidentiary or non-eveidentiary and
according to him, the stage at which the documents come before
the Authority/ Court, assumes great significance, as it is only after
examining the same, it can be ascertained, whether it require
stamping. not 'stillborn' and it requires the determination of the
Court/Authority before it is declared to be unenforceable. The learned counsel would draw a line of distinction
between the evidentiary and non-evidentiary proceedings under
the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 and according to him, the
legislature itself has provided a distinction between the
documents that are tendered in evidentiary proceedings and in
other proceedings. Section 34 , according to him, provide the guidance by
prescribing that, no authority, which is authorized to receive
evidence shall, admit in evidence, an unstamped document and in
respect of a document which is not tendered in evidentiary
proceedings, no Authority shall act upon it. He would further
submit that the distinction has received judicial approval of the
Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Bittan Bibi Vs.
Kuntula11, where Justice Lal concurred with Justice Dayal in a
difference of opinion between him and Justice Desai and
according to him, the said view is not overruled, as suggested by
his counter part in Hindustan Steel Limited Vs. Dilip
Construction Co12 , as paragraph 8 has adversely commented
upon the dissenting view of Justice Desai but the majority view is
affirmed. 11AIR 1952 Allahabad 996. Mr.Rebello has invited my attention to the decision in
N.N.Global, where paragraph 8 of Hindustan Steel is cited with
approval in paragraphs 51 and 52. Dealing with the determining factor, as to whether
the stage of Section 9 , is 'evidentiary proceeding', as per the
learned counsel, the time to ascertain the adequacy of stamp duty
do not arise at the stage of Section 9 , but it would arise later, at
the evidentiary stage. It is his submission that Section 9 is akin to
proceedings under Order 39 Rule 1 or Order 38 Rule 5 of CPC ,
and in his view, the judgment in N.N. Global do not preclude
grant of Section 9 relief, pending the determination of adequacy
of stamping. 21 Taking the submission of Mr.Rebello ahead,
Mr.Vishal Kanade, would highlight on the object of Section 9 of
the Arbitration Act, being, to (a) protect interest of a
minor/person of unsound mind who is party to arbitral
proceedings and (b) to make an order as an interim protection of
'subject matter' of the arbitration agreement. According to Mr.Kanade, the Court has wide powers
under Section 9 , and it is not only traceable to the Arbitration
Act , but it is also relatable to the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908.
He would emphasize upon the last part of Section 9 which has
applied the following words "and the Court shall have the same

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 31/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

power as it has for the purpose of, and in relation to any
proceeding before it". He has also placed reliance upon 176 th Law
Commission of India Report, to underscore that the said Act
never intended to exclude the wide powers which were conferred
in the 1940 Act. According to him, a Court while exercising the
power under section 9 can draw sustenance from the Code and in
particular, Order 39, which empower the Court to pass interim
reliefs, where case is made out on the basis of 'affidavit' or
otherwise. Thus, drawing an analogy, he would submit that the
power to grant interim relief will not be affected, even if a
document containing an arbitration clause is unstamped or is
insufficiently stamped, inasmuch as the parties seeking interim
relief in civil suits are required to make out a prima facie case
without the requirement of the subject agreement being stamped. It is the submission of Mr.Kanade that an anomalous
position would be created, if a plaintiff who approach the civil
court, without having the document, on the basis of which he
claim the relief, either not being stamped or insufficiently
stamped, and he may be afforded an opportunity to cure the
lacunae, at a later point of time, before the document is admitted
in evidence, but in case of a Court exercising the power under section 9 of the Arbitration Act, he shall be precluded from
seeking interim relief. According to him, the consequence of not
Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 32/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

paying the stamp duty or insufficiency in it's payment is a curable
defect and assuming that the agreement which comprise of an
arbitration clause is unenforceable, once the stamp duty is affixed,
it would regain its enforceability. He would rely upon the decision of the Division
Bench in case of Asha Pura Minechem Ltd. Vs. Pacific Basin IHX
(UK) Limited,13 when an argument on behalf of the respondent
that the provisions of Arbitration Act , do not specifically
incorporate or for that matter, exclude the application of the
general procedure in law, contained in the Code, was put to rest. While answering the said issue, reference is made to the decision
of the Apex Court in case of ITI Ltd Vs.Seimens Public
Communications,14 and the decision in case of Adhunik Steels
Ltd Vs. Orissa Manganese and Minerals (P) Ltd,15

 The Division Bench speaking through Hon'ble
Justice Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud (as his Lordship was then), held
that they are unable to subscribe to a broad submission that
provisions of the Code, are inapplicable to the proceedings before
a Court, when it exercise its jurisdiction under the Arbitration
Act . The relevant observation reads thus :- 22 Advocate Anoshk Davar also joined hands with
Mr.Kanade and Mr.Rebello, when he draw a distinction between
the two proceedings i.e. a petition filed under section 9 of the Act,
which is aimed at preserving the subject matter of the Arbitration
until formation of the Arbitral Tribunal, or even after declaration
of the award, but before its enforcement. Relying upon the decision in case of Firm Ashok
Traders Vs Gurumukh Das Saluja,16 , he would submit that the
relief sought in an application under Section 11 is neither in a Suit
nor a right arising from a contract, but the Court under section 9 ,
is only formulating interim measures so as to protect the rights
under adjudication before the Arbitral Tribunal, from being
frustrated. According to him, the legislature has always treated
the provision differently from an application under section 11 and 16 2004 (3) SCC 155

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 34/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

necessarily, what holds good qua it, may not necessarily govern Section 9 , which is a special provision for grant of interim
measures, in aid of final relief and ultimately, according to him,
the object of exercise of such power is, protection of the property,
being subject matter of arbitration proceedings, so that the
proceedings are not rendered infructuous and the Arbitral Award
passed on culmination of such proceedings, do not merely remain
a paper award with no potential of it being enforced. Mr.Davar has taken me through the position of law,
which existed prior to the decision of the Constitution Bench in
case of N.N. Global, and in seriatim, he would refer to the
judgment in case of SMS Tea Estates Pvt Ltd Vs. Chandmari Tea
Co. Pvt. Ltd,17 full Bench of the Bombay High Court in Gautam
Landscapes, Garware Wall Ropes (supra), etc, which had
expounded the scope of an arbitration agreement along with an
arbitration clause contained in a document/instrument with
reference to the Stamp Act and it's provisions for levy of stamp
duty as per the Schedule annexed thereto. According to him, it is authoritatively held that the
Court shall before admitting any document in evidence or acting
upon such document, examine, whether it is duly stamped and if
it is an instrument, which is to be compulsorily registered, and if
the document is found to be not duly stamped, the bar under section 35 of the Stamp Act would sprung into action and the
17 (2011) 14 SCC 66

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 35/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

Arbitration clause therein, cannot be acted upon and the Court
should then proceed to impound the document under section 33 and follow the procedure under section 35 and 38 of the Stamp
Act. Mr.Davar has analyzed the decision of the
Constitution Bench in N.N. Global and he would submit that the
scope of Section 9 is not taken away by non-stamping of the
document and such an agreement is not an enforceable contract
but, it merely remains in suspended animation till the Stamp duty
is paid. According to him, the substantive reliefs in arbitration
proceedings may not be granted in an unstamped or inadequately
stamped agreement, but interim relief under section 9 , merely for
the purpose of securing the subject matter of the dispute, need
not await stamping of the instrument/agreement in question. 23 I have also heard Mr. Kedar Wagle for the petitioner,
who has also advanced his argument on the merits of the matter
and he has propounded upon the judgment of the Constitution
Benches in case of N.N. Global and has analyzed its impact on
the petitioner under section 9 of the Act. It is his specific
submission that the decision of the Constitution Bench inter alia
has held that the judgment in case of Garware Wall Ropes (supra), is correctly decided and hence, the Constitution Bench
has refrained itself from examining the effect of unstamped
agreement in the context of Section 9 of the Act. He would also
place reliance upon the Division Bench decision of the High
Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 36/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

Court in case of M/s. Universal Enterprises Vs. Deluxe
Laboratories Pvt. Ltd,18 where it is held by the Division Bench
that the parties cannot be rendered remedyless at the stage of Section 9 merely because the stamp duty on the document in
question is not paid fully and one party has raised the objection of
insufficiency of the stamp duty. He would specifically rely upon
the following observations in the said decisions

 "If the argument of the learned counsel for the respondent
 no.1 is accepted, then in many cases, the respondent would
 merely to avoid any urgent relief to be granted to the
 petitioner, raise the issue of inadequate stamp duty and avoid
 urgent ad-interim order being passed". 24 Contesting the aforesaid argument, Mr. Mayur
Khandeparkar would submit that his argument has to be
appreciated on five distinct planks; the foremost being Section 9 issue is not at all considered when the Constitution Bench
answered the reference and attempt is made to fall out, of the
answer to the reference. He would submit that the issue is not
about the matter of exercise of power, but once the Constitution
Bench held such an agreement to be void/invalid, and as such,
there can be no cure to it, for all purposes, the interpretation must
prevail. According to him, stamping is a substantive objection
and as per the Supreme Court, the arbitration contract is
independent, as it would survive even after the main agreement is
18 2016(5) Mh.L.J 623,

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 37/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

terminated and hence, no Court nonetheless, the Court exercising
power under section 9 , shall come to the aid of an invalid
document as, the exercise of power under section 9 definitely
postulate existence of 'a valid agreement'. Mr. Khandeparkar would stretch his argument further
in submitting that a cause of action projected to be emanating
from a document, which is inadequately stamped or unstamped,
the cause is stillborn, and definitely do not deserve to be
entertained as the rights which would otherwise have been
available, had the agreement been stamped, would remain frozen
or rather they do not exist. According to him, the words
'enforceable in law' or 'not enforceable in law' understood in the
context of Section 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, would mean, that
upon there being an occasion, which necessitates one of the
parties to the agreement having it enforced, the same would be
vouched unsafe and the Civil Court as well as the public
authorities shall refrain from giving effect to an such a document. 25 He would also submit that a contract must confirm
to Section 7 of the Arbitration Act, and it must satisfy the
requirements of the Contract Act, 1872 and such an agreement
which is not enforceable, do not exist in law, and it can be
validated only by the process contemplated under section 33 of
the Stamp Act. According to him, SMS Tea Estates, Garware
Wall Ropes have correctly laid down the position of law. Mr. Khandeparkar would further submit that the Stamp Act is a law enacted with a definite purpose and it deserve
enforcement. The plea of insufficiency of stamp duty cannot be
brushed aside merely as a technical issue, but according to him,
the Court shall necessarily ensure compliance of the statutory
duty to follow the regime of Section 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. It is his specific submission that there is a paradigm
shift in the context of approach relating to
unstamped/insufficiently stamped instruments and it is no more a
fiscal or technical objection, but has been construed, as one that
relates to it's enforceability. Such an agreement is not a 'contract'
under section 2 (g) of the Contract Act, and such an instrument,
according to him, is non-est and do not exist in law, and the Court
exercising its power under section 9 , shall not render assistance to
enforce it or grant any relief, flowing from it. As per Mr. Khandeparkar, it cannot be possibly
suggested that the Court exercising power under Section 9 of the
Arbitration Act, 1996, can possibly abstain from deciding the
issue, concerning existence of a valid arbitration agreement or
legality of an agreement, albeit, at prima facie stage, in case such
an objection is raised by the opposing party and it would not only
be a jurisdictional issue, but also a duty cast upon a Court under section 33 and 34 of the Stamp Act, to examine the instrument to
ascertain whether necessary stamp duty has been paid on an
Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 39/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

instrument. According to him, except in cases of unstamped
instruments, the Court is not expected to engage in a threadbare
exercise, but is empowered to prima facie examine the pleadings
and the instrument in question and assess, whether the stamp
duty is adequate or not, in the context of the relevant article
applicable to such an instrument in question and upon such
exercise being carried out, if it is found that the instrument is not
adequately stamped, then the Court would compulsorily have the
document/instrument impounded by following the process under
the Stamp Act . In short, it is the submission of Mr. Khandeparkar
that in order to make out a prima facie case, a petitioner who
approaches the Court under section 9 of the Arbitration Act,
1996 is required to demonstrate the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement, which is legally enforceable. The cause of
action to file and maintain such a petition, according to him,
arises in relation to a valid agreement, which is capable of being
redressed in proceedings under section 9 and this is a 'pre-
condition', in maintaining an arbitration petition under section 9 ,
though the remedy conferred is not the one arises out of a
contract, but available under a statute. 26 Mr.Rushabh Seth, the counsel who represent the
respondent in CARBP No. 267/2022, has also painstakingly
taken me through the provisions of Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 as well as Indian Stamp Act, 1899 and he would submit that the
Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 40/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

Stamp Act is a taxing statute to ensure payment of revenue to the
Government on transactions entered between the parties. The
provision of impounding of a document and sending it for
adjudication, according to him, is a step to negate loss of revenue
to the State ex-chequer. Mr. Seth would submit that the Constitution Bench
has now held that the arbitration agreement is a separate and
distinct agreement from the underlying contract, and for the
purposes of stamping, it has to be adjudicated separately, though
Schedule 1 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act , does not specifically
cover the duty payable on arbitration agreements, but in absence
of the specific article, according to him, it would be covered by Article 5(h)(b) of Schedule-I of the Act . Mr. Seth has also invited
my attention to the series of decisions on the issue in question
and in order to substantiate his argument, he would draw parity
with Section 69 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, which
provide that no suit to enforce a right arising from a contract or
conferred by the Act, shall be instituted in any Court by, or on
behalf of any person, suing as a partner in a firm against the firm
or any firm alleged to be or to have been a partner in the firm
unless the firm is registered and the person suing is or has been
shown in the Register of Firms as a partner in the firm.
According to him, the effect of non-registration is clearly
provided and a person who is otherwise entitled to claim relief, in
the wake of the said provision is barred from even instituting the

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 41/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

proceedings if he has failed to register the firm, which is a
requirement in law. It is, therefore, submitted that the payment of stamp
duty, if it is a requirement of law, failure to abide by the same, will
disentitle the party for any relief, till such situation is remedies in
the manner prescribed. Similarly, he would also draw parity with
a condition precedent giving a right to the party to sue under section 138 of the Negotiable Instrument Act 1881. Thus,
according to Mr. Seth, when a pre-condition is imposed before
exercise of any right, then it must be fulfilled and there can be no
escape from adhering to the same. 27 The learned counsel Mr.Shanay Shah representing the
respondent in Arbitration Petition (L) No. 9858/2023, adopt the
submissions advanced to the above effect and according to him,
the substratum of any interim measure prayed under Section 9 of
the Act, is a pre-existing cause of action. He would invoke the
observations of the Apex Court in case of Adhunik Steels Limited (supra) and according to him, in terms of the decision of the
Constitution Bench, it is inconceivable that a contract, containing
an arbitration clause would be stamped only to cover the liability
in regard to the arbitration agreement and leave the main
agreement unstamped, when it is required to be stamped. He
would rely upon para-117 of the said judgment and according to
him, when the Court entertain a petition u/s.9 , based on a pre-
existing cause of action, which relate to the contract, falling
Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 42/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

within the ambit of Section 7 of the Arbitration Act, in the wake
of paradigm shift in law, one must look at the contract itself to
find out whether, the contract is enforceable in law or not.
According to him, when the agreement which is insufficiently
stamped or unstamped is 'still born' owing to non-payment of the
requisite stamp duty, it do not come to life, merely for the
purpose of Section 9 , but it continue to remain 'stillborn' till the
applicable stamp duty, under the fiscal statute is paid and it is only
then, the agreement would attain enforceability. 28 Advocate Anuj Desai, representing the respondent in
Commercial Arbitration Petition (L) 32027/2022, would also
submit that the substratum of the judgment in Gautam
Landscapes has been taken away by the ruling of the Supreme
Court in N.N. Global, as Gautam Landscapes has concluded that
a petition under Section 9 is maintainable, despite the contract
containing the Arbitration Agreement being unstamped or
insufficiently stamped, as Arbitration Agreement is severable and
not required to be stamped. However, according to him, the
Constitution Bench has ultimately held that an Arbitration
Agreement is non-existent in law until the stamp duty is paid. 29 Though at the outset, while referring to the issue
placed before me in the backdrop of the rival contentions
advanced, I had extensively referred to the Arbitration Act, 1996 ,
the reference to the Maharashtra Stamp Act , which is a
paramateria statute with the Indian Stamp Act is also imperative. The law relating to stamps and stamp duties regarding
documents fall within the province of List I of Schedule VII of
the Constitution. Specified documents like bill of exchange,
promissory notes, bills of lading, letters of credit, policies of
insurance, transfer of shares, debentures, proxies and receipts are
some of the documents exigible to stamp duty. List II empowers
the State to enact laws for rates of stamp duty in respect of the
documents other than the one specified in List I.

 The Stamp Act and in this case, since we are
concerned wit the Maharashtra Stamp Act is a fiscal legislation,
enacted for the purpose of levying stamp duty on certain
documents/instruments. The stamp duty is levied as a tax and the
object of the enactment is to collect proper stamp duty on an
instrument or conveyance on which such duty is payable. The
obligation is cast on the authorities assigned under the said statute
with a duty to collect the stamp duty, to properly ascertain the
true value of the transaction. The Stamp Act which is a fiscal
measure enacted to secure revenue for the State from certain class
of instruments through several provisions as set out the manner in
which the stamp duty shall be adjudicated and paid. 30 The charging section, Section 3 , provide, that subject
to the exemptions in Schedule I of the Act , the instruments shall
be chargeable with duty of the amount indicated in the Schedule,
as the proper duty therefor, and it provides for the two relevant
stipulations :- 31 Chapter IV of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 provides for Adjudication of stamp duty and Section 31 contemplate that, when an instrument, whether executed or not,
and whether previously stamped or not, is brought before the
Collector, by one of the parties to the instrument and such person
seek an opinion as to the duty with which the instrument is
chargeable, the Collector shall determine the duty which shall be
levied. For the said purpose, the Collector may require to be
furnished with a true copy or abstract of the instrument and also
with such affidavit or other evidence as he may deem necessary to
prove that all the facts and circumstances affecting the
chargeability of the instrument with duty, or amount of the duty
with which it is chargeable are truly and fully set forth and the
evidence to that effect has been furnished accordingly. When such duty is determined by the Collector, the
person liable to pay the stamp duty, shall pay the same within 60
days from the date of service of the notice of demand.If such
person fails to pay the stamp duty so demanded, within the
period prescribed, he shall be liable to pay a penalty @ 2% of the

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 45/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

deficient portion of the stamp duty for every month or part
thereof, from the date of execution of such instrument, or as the
case may be. 32 Section 32 of the Stamp Act, 1958 has set out the
procedure for certifying the document, by the Collector upon
payment of stamp duty, as prescribed, and the Collector shall
certify an endorsement on the instrument, that full duty with
which the instrument is chargeable, has been paid, and sub-
section (3) of Section 32 , stipulate that any instrument upon
which an endorsement has been made under this Section, shall
be deemed to be duly stamped or not chargeable with duty, as the
case may be; and, if chargeable with duty, shall be receivable in
evidence or otherwise, and may be acted upon and registered as
if it had been originally duly stamped. 33 Another important provision in the statute is Section
33 , which prescribe the procedure for impounding of instrument
and it read thus :- "34 Instruments not duly stamped inadmissible in
 evidence, etc.
 No instrument chargeable with duty (****) shall be
 admitted in evidence for any purpose by any person having by
 law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence, or shall
 be acted upon, registered or authenticated by any such person or
 by any public officer unless such instrument is duly stamped or if
 the instrument is written on sheet of paper with impressed stamp
 such stamp paper is purchased in the name of one of the parties
 to the instrument. Provided that,-- [(a) any such instrument shall, subject to all just exceptions, be
 admitted in evidence on payment of-- (i) the duty with which the same is chargeable, or in the case of
 an instrument insufficiently stamped, the amount required to
 make up such duty, and (ii) a penalty at the rate of 2 per cent. of the deficient portion of
 the stamp duty for every month or part thereof, from the date of
 execution of such instrument : Section 35 provide that, when an instrument has been
admitted in evidence, such admission shall not, except as
provided in Section 58 , be called in question at any stage of the
suit or proceedings on the ground that the instrument has not

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 47/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

been properly stamped. Section 36 and Section 37 are further relevant for the
discussion on the issue and the relevant portion reads thus :- 35 In light of the statutory framework, the moot
question that arises for consideration is, as to the stage at which
the admissibility of the documents shall be looked into. As per Section 33 , every person having, by law, or by
consent of the parties, authority to receive evidence and every
person in-charge of a public office, before whom any instrument
chargeable, with duty is produced in performance of his
functions, a duty is cast upon him to impound the same on
noticing that it is not duly stamped. For exercising the aforesaid
power, the person/ authority shall examine the instrument to
ascertain whether it is stamped with the stamp of the value and

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 48/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

description required by law for the time being in force. The provision itself carve out a distinction between
the documents that are tendered in 'evidentiary proceedings' and
those which are tendered in 'other proceedings'. The statute
contemplate, that no Authority, who is authorized to receive
evidence shall, "admit in evidence" a document which is not
sufficiently stamped and as regards other proceedings, no
Authority "shall act upon it". 36 The two stages are distinct in its concept are distinct,
as the proviso appended to Section 34 carve out an exception for
admission of documents in evidence, but it do not provide an
exception in acting on the documents. If both standards were to
apply, a "person authorized to receive evidence" under the
proviso, could permit admission of a document in evidence, upon
compliance of the contemplation stipulated, but not act upon it.
The first proviso appended to Section 34 , permit any instrument
to be admitted in evidence on payment of the duty with which
the same is chargeable, or in the case of an instrument
insufficiently stamped on payment of the deficit duty and the
penalty prescribed. Upon such steps being taken, the defect stand
cured and the document then is ready for being admitted in
evidence. This succinct distinction is noticed by Justice Desai, a
third Judge to whom a reference was made in the wake of the

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 49/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

cleavage of opinion of two Judges, who delivered a judgment in
case of Bittan Bibi Vs. Kuntula,19 when the scope of Section 35 and 36 of the Stamp Act, 1899, was considered and the
consequences of admitting an unstamped document in evidence
by the trial Court, and a decree passed thereupon, fell for
consideration. Referring to Section 36 of the Act which debar an
Appellate Court from excluding from considering a document not
duly stamped, which has been wrongly admitted in evidence by
the lower Court, it was held that once a document has been
admitted in evidence, the Appellate Court has no power to
prevent it being used for all purposes, and even though the trial
Court has erroneously admitted in evidence, an unstamped
promissory note or agreement, the Appellate Court is debarred
from setting aside the decree on the ground that the documents
should not have been acted upon. The third Judge Justice Brij Mohan Lal, on a closer
scrutiny of Section 35 , discerned the intention of legislature, to
the following effect :- 37 Section 33 of the Stamp Act cast a duty upon every
Court to examine every document chargeable with stamp duty
and if it is noticed that it is not duly stamped, the Court is
debarred from admitting it in evidence. 'Admitting in evidence', means an act of reading the
document as a part of evidence; it must be letting in as a result of
judicial determination of the question "whether it can be
admitted in evidence or not" because is it not stamped. In other
words, the Court shall admit it in evidence, after applying its
mind consciously and on determining whether the document is
admissible or not. 38 This distinction find a further elaboration by the
Apex court in case of SMS Tea Estates Pvt. Ltd (supra) when the
question that arose for consideration before the Apex Court was
formulated to the following effect :- On examining the scheme of the Stamp Act, 1899 and in particular, Sections 33 and 35 , as against the Scheme of
appointment of Arbitrators, an application under section 11 of the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, it was noted that an

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 52/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

application u/s.11 to be accompanied by the original Arbitration
Agreement or duly certified copy thereof, is a requirement found
in the scheme/rules of almost all High Courts, and if it comes to
the notice of the Court that the purported arbitration agreement
is not properly stamped, in such a case, it should be impounded
and dealt with, in the manner specified under section 38 of the
Stamp Act, as the Court cannot act upon such a document or the
arbitration clause contained therein, but once the lacunae is
removed i.e. deficit duty and penalty is paid, in the manner
provided the document is permitted to be acted upon or
admitted in evidence. Since the lacunae/defect is curable one, it is
conclusively held that if the document is found to be not duly
stamped, it cannot be acted upon and consequently, the
arbitration clause therein, will not tick-in and the Court shall then
impound the document and follow the prescribed procedure, but
once the document is duly stamped, either before the Court or
before the Collector, and the defect as regards deficit stamp is
cured, the Court may treat the document as 'duly stamped'. 39 With this exposition propounded in SMS Tea Estates
P. Ltd, the question is whether the same principle shall be made
applicable at the stage of entertaining a petition under section 9 of the Arbitration Act seeking interim measures based on an
arbitration agreement, which is not duly stamped or contained in
a document which is not sufficiently stamped. For this purpose, it will be necessary to understand
the difference in the scope of the two provisions; both being the
quintessence of the Act of 1996, Section 9 , being a provision for
protecting the interest of the party, so that the arbitral proceedings
are not frustrated and Section 11 , a provision for appointment of
an Arbitrator, for honouring the decision of the parties to adopt
the Alternate mode of resolution of dispute. Section 9 provision could be availed by a party who
may, before or during arbitral proceedings, or at any time of
making of the arbitral award, but before it is enforced in
accordance with Section 36 apply for certain interim measures or
protection which are specifically set out from clauses (a) to (e) in
clause (ii) and in granting such interim measures, the Court shall
exercise the same power of making orders, as it has for the
purpose of, and in relation to, any proceedings before it. Applications for interim relief are inherently
applications which are required to be disposed off on expeditious
basis as they act in aid of final relief. The legislature has made it clear, that a Court
exercising the power in granting interim measures, shall exercise
the power by applying three fold test in determining whether an
interim measure, as prayed for, deserve to be granted on the touch
stone of (a) good prima facie case, (b) balance of convenience in
favour of grant of interim relief and (c) irreparable injury or loss

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 54/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

to the applicant if the relief is not granted. There can be no quibble over the proposition that
when the parties amicably decide to chose a forum for settling
their disputes and agree to be referred to an arbitral tribunal,
before they initiate the proceedings, some interim measures are
necessitated for protecting the subject matter, when the Arbitral
Tribunal is not yet constituted, or even if constituted, the
necessary application is not filed before the Tribunal seeking the
interim measures, then the party may approach the Court for
reliefs under section 9 , if the relief under section 17 before the
Arbitrator is not efficacious one. 40 In Firm Ashok Traders Vs Gurumukh Das Saluja 20,
the Apex Court culled out the scope of Section 9 of the Act of
1996, in the following words : 20 2004 (3) SCC 155

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 55/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

41 In exercising the power under section 9 of the Act,
the Court is competent to protect interest of a minor/person of an
unsound mind who is party to the arbitral proceedings, by
appointing a guardian and this is a relief which may be prayed
and granted much before the initiation of the arbitral proceedings
and would be construed as an interim measure. It is also
competent for the Court to make an order as an interim
protection of "subject matters" of arbitration agreement and while
the Court exercise this power, with the necessary indication, that
it shall be akin to the power for making orders, as the Court has,
for the purpose of, and in relation to any proceedings before it,
necessarily invoke the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure ,
1908. The Court shall draw sustenance from the Code of Civil
Procedure and in particular, Order 39 thereof, which empower
the Court to pass interim relief, when a case is made out on the
basis of 'affidavit or otherwise'. 42 In case of Adhunik Steels Ltd Vs. Orissa Manganese
and Minerals (P) Ltd , the principles applicable for exercise of the
said powers are held to be somehow similar to the power of a
Civil Court granting interim prohibitory injunction or interim
mandatory injunction and the comparison between the two is
clearly proffered in the following words :- 43 In short, Section 9 enable the Court to exercise its
jurisdiction and pass such orders, as are required to maintain
substratum of the subject matter of the arbitration, though the
Court may not return a finding on the merits of the claim made
or a dispute raised by the parties before the Arbitrator. Section 9 of the Act, of 1996, has been often clothed as a discretionary
power in the Court, to be exercised sparingly and cautiously in
consonance with the object of the statutory provision. 44 As against the provision in form of Section 9 when
one have a look at Section 11 of the Act, which is a provision of

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 57/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

appointment of arbitrators, which contemplate an agreed
procedure amongst the parties themselves or through a scheme
formulated through the Chief Justice of the concerned High
Courts to designate arbitral institutions, and appoint the
arbitrators when there is a failure of the parties to agree on the
name of the arbitrator, by stepping in, as permitted by sub-
section (6) of Section 11 and appointing an Arbitrator to resolve
the dispute between the parties. While exercising the power under section 11 , or for that
matter, under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, what is required to
be examined is the existence of a valid Arbitration Agreement. 45 Petition under section 9 of the Act, praying for
interim measures definitely deserve a different treatment than the
application under section 11 , seeking appointment of an
Arbitrator, as the legislature intended these provisions to operate
in distinct fields. In contrast to the applications for appointment of
Arbitrator which must necessarily satisfy the test of existence of
an Arbitration Agreement by examining either the original or
certified copy of the instrument, Section 9 petition praying for
interim reliefs or ad-interim reliefs is to be judged on the
parameter of a three fold test and not on the determination of the
existence and validity of the agreement. This is the specific reason when the Five Judge

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 58/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

Constitution Bench, in N.N.Global (supra), while answering the
reference in its majority judgment, have clarified that they have
not pronounced on the matter with reference to Section 9 of the
Arbitration Act, and it merely pronounced upon the power of the
Court to be exercised under section 11 by virtue of an arbitration
agreement, within the meaning of Section 7 of the Act, which
attract stamp duty, but which is not stamped or insufficiently
stamped and has ruled that such an agreement cannot be acted
upon, in view of Section 35 of the Stamp Act, unless following
impounding and payment of the requisite duty, necessary
certificate is provided u/s.42 of the Stamp Act. 46 Reference to SMS Tea Estate Pvt Ltd is clearly
referable to the scheme of appointment of Arbitrator by the Chief
Justice of Guwahati High Court in form of an application under section 11 and the pronouncement is restricted to Section 11 of
the Act. On the other hand, the Bombay High Court clearly
touched the aspect of maintainability of Section 9 petition in an
unstamped document, in case of Universal Enterprises Vs. Deluxe
Laboratories (supra), when it was categorically held that the Court
was not required to note the existence of an arbitration
agreement, even at the prima facie stage before passing any ad-
interim/interim relief under section 9 of the Act. Considering the ambit and purpose of Section 9 , the

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 59/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

party relying upon an arbitration agreement is entitled to invoke
the jurisdiction of the Court, for interim protection and/or
injunction even before invoking before the arbitration clause, and
even if the issue is raised about the insufficiency of the stamp
and/or related aspects and if the documents/instrument is
forwarded for adjudication of stamp duty, still the fact of
existence of an arbitration agreement shall continue to exist. In Universal Enterprises v. Deluxe Laboratories Pvt.
Ltd. the Division Bench has succinctly notified this aspect as
under :- 47 Even the Full Bench of the Bombay High Court in
case of Gautam Landscapes Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Shailesh S. Shah & Anr. (supra) while deciding the reference made over to it, as to
whether in view of Section 11(6A) inserted by Amendment Act of
2016, it would be necessary for the Court before passing the final
orders, to await the adjudication by stamp authorities in a case
where document objected is not adequately stamped additionally,
decide the issue whether the Court can entertain and grant any
interim relief or ad-interim in a petition filed under section 9 of
the Act, when a document containing arbitration clause is
unstamped or insufficiently stamped, on due deliberation, has
answered the reference as under :- 67. The respondents pressed into service the bar under section
 34 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act while entertaining an application
 under section 9 of the ACA. We are inclined to accept the
 submission of Dr. Sathe, the learned Senior Counsel, that for the
 purpose of granting interim measures, whether by way of interim or
 ad-interim, under section 9 , the said relief is not arising out of a
 contract containing an arbitration agreement. We are, therefore, of
 the view that even if the main agreement containing arbitration
 agreement is not stamped or insufficiently stamped, there could not
 be any bar against the Court hearing the application under section
 9 of the ACA for interim measures to grant ad-interim or interim
 relief to a party. 68. We are not inclined to accept the submission of Mr. Dani,
 learned Senior Counsel appearing for respondent in Arbitration
 Application No. 246 of 2016 that for the purpose of interim
 measures, the Court has to act upon the main agreement containing
 arbitration agreement and, thus till such time, such an agreement is
 stamped in accordance with the provisions of the Maharashtra
 Stamp Act, 1958 irrespective of the urgency and though case is
 made out for grant of ad interim o interim relief, the Court does not
 have power to grant any such relief. This clearly fo the reason that
 the Court in considering a relief under section 9 is acting upon the
 arbitration agreement only, and not the main contract An
 arbitration agreement would not require any stamping. 70. The entire purpose of granting interim measures is to protect the
 matters set out specifically under section 9(1)(ii)(a) to (e) during
 the pendency of the arbitral proceedings and even after making of
 the arbitral award before it is enforced in accordance with section
 36 of the Act, would be defeated if we accept the interpretation
 placed on the provisions by the learned Senior Counsel Mr. Dani. If
 an objection about insufficiency of stamp is entertained and
 accepted at the stage of hearing of the application under section 9 for interim measures, a party who has good chances of succeeding
 in the arbitral proceedings finally and if not granted interim
 measures to protect the subject-matter of such proceedings, there
 would be gross injustice to such party. 48 In Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. Vs. Coastal Marine
Constructions & Engineering Ltd (supra), the Supreme Court

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 62/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

once again focused its attention upon Section 11 , when it noticed
a decision of the Full bench of Bombay High Court, in Gautam
Landscapes and held that the first question answered by the
Division Bench, as regards a petition for interim or ad-interim
relief being entertained under section 9 of the Act, even if the
document containing the arbitration clause being unstamped or
insufficiently stamped, which was decided in the affirmative, but
the answer to the second issue about entertaining the application
under section 11(6) shall await the decision of adjudicating
authorities, which was answered in the negative, was held to be
incorrectly decided. 49 The Bombay High Court pursuant to Garware (supra) in Saifee Developers Pvt.Ltd Vs. Sanklecha
Constructions, rejected the argument advanced that Gautam
Landscapes was overruled by the Supreme Court and in para-11,
it express itself to the following effect :- Gautam Landscapes Pvt. Ltd and Anr" in a Petition for Special
 leave to Appeal (c) No.10232-10233 of 2019. By an order dated
 29th April, 2019, passed by the Supreme Court, on the said petition,
 while issuing notice to the respondents, the Supreme Court has not
 stayed the decision of the Full Bench. The Supreme Court, however,
 observed that section 9 petition may continue, in the meanwhile
 judgment delivered thereon shall not be implemented without leave
 of the Court. Thus, as the judgment of the full bench is binding on
 this Court, and the same being not stayed by the Supreme Court, it
 is not possible to accept the contention as urged on behalf of

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 63/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

 respondent that this Court cannot grant any ad-interim relief." 50 In Vidya Drolia Vs.Durga Trading Corporation, 21
the Supreme Court affirmed the decision in Garware, which again
is a pronouncement on the exercise of power under sub-section
(6) of Section 11 and not an exposition of law as regards Section 9 petition. 51 In Intercontinental Hotel Groups (India) Pvt Ltd. Vs.
Waterline Hotels Pvt. Ltd. , while the answer to the reference
placed for consideration before larger Bench was awaited, the two
Judges Bench categorically held that until the larger bench
decides on the inter-play between Section 11(6) and Section 35 ,
the arbitrations should continue to be carried on, unless the issue
before the Court patently indicates existence of dead wood, and
by relying upon N.N. Global (supra), the Three Judges Bench, it
was held that there is no legal impediment to the enforceability of
the arbitration agreement pending payment of stamp duty on the
substantive contract. Further, in case of Weatherford Oil Tool Middle East
Limited Vs Baker Hughes Singapore PTE , the Division Bench
relying upon the doctrine of separability encompassed in
arbitration jurisprudence, relied upon the decision of Three
Judges Bench in N.N. Global (supra) which has clearly identified
that an arbitration agreement is a distinct and separate agreement,
independent from the substantive commercial contract in which it
21 (2021) 2 SCC 1

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 64/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

is embedded and it is based on the premise that when the parties
entered into a commercial contract containing an arbitration
clause, it gives birth to two separate agreements ie one the
substantive contract which enumerate the rights and obligations
of the parties and two, the arbitration agreement which contain a
binding obligation of the parties to resolve their dispute through
the mode of arbitration. Holding that there is no legal impediment to the
enforcement of the arbitration agreement, pending payment of
stamp duty on the substantive contract, while the issue was
pending for consideration before the Constitution Bench, it was
held that at a pre-appointment stage, the fate of the proceedings
cannot be left hanging and considering the time sensitivity in the
arbitration cases, the petitions were entertained and the sole
arbitrator was appointed. 52 In light of the aforesaid, the submission advanced on
behalf of the respondent's and in specific, by Advocate Anuj
Desai, Mr.Khandeparkar, Mr.Rushabh Seth and Shanay Shah that
the substratum of the judgment of the High Court in Gautam
Landscapes is taken away by ruling of the Supreme Court in N.N.
Global, the Constitution Bench is not a sustainable argument. What has been held in N.N. Global is the exigibility
of arbitration agreement to stamp duty and that the agreement is
non-existent in law, unless the stamp duty is paid. It is the

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 ::: 65/68 CARBP 1430 NN Global.doc

argument on behalf of the respondents that an arbitration
agreement cannot be severed or read in isolation from it's parent
contract for the purpose of Section 11 of the Application and the
aspect that an arbitration agreement is independent, is only to
ensure and preserve it's existence from the point of view of it
being invoked for adjudication, despite the subject agreement
being terminated and what is canvassed before me, is that for the
purpose of attracting the stamp duty, the aspect of it being an
independent contract, is wholly irrelevant. This argument, when tested against the power of a
Civil Court to grant injunction under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 of
the Code of Civil Procedure , and considered from a view point
that if the Civil Court is not debarred from granting the
injunction/interim relief, even if the agreement from which the
rights are flowing or claim to be flowing is unstamped/
insufficiently stamped, then, without looking into the said aspect,
on a prima facie case being made out, the injunction may be
granted in favour of the plaintiff. However, the party which chose
arbitration as the mode of dispute resolution, would suffer a set
back, as before it even invoke the arbitration, and though intend
to get the documents adequately stamped in due course of time,
would be refused an interim relief on the ground of insufficiency
of the stamp duty, whereas if he approaches the Civil Court, the
non-stamping or insufficient stamping of the document, will
never pose an obstacle for him. The consequence of such a scenario would ultimately
discourage the parties from invoking arbitration as a mode of
dispute resolution, as in the Civil Suit filed by a party, he will not
face an obstruction at the stage when he seek the interim relief in
form of an injunction, and rather it is only at the time when the
document is to be admitted in evidence, it will be imperative for
him to get it adequately stamped, as the document shall not be
permitted to be read in evidence, in case, if it suffers from
deficiency of stamp duty. 53 While considering a petition, under Section 9 of the
Arbitration Act, which seek interim measures, the Court
exercising the power akin to that of the Civil Court under the
Code of Civil Procedure , shall not examine whether it is
sufficiently stamped, but if at the stage when the document is
produced for being admitted in evidence and it is found to be
insufficiently stamped, then the Court can impound the
document and recover the required stamp duty. For considering
the relief under Section 9 , the Court cannot be stopped in it's
track if it is satisfied that case has been made out by the petitioner
for grant of interim relief. It is only at the stage when the
document is admitted in evidence and being marked as Exhibit,
the embargo created on part of the Authority, empowered to
receive evidence, shall be triggered as the Stamp Act provide that
no instrument chargeable with duty shall be admitted in evidence
or any purpose, unless such instrument is duly stamped. However, upon evidence of payment of the necessary stamp duty,
it is permitted to be admitted in evidence. Considering this aspect, denying the interim
relief/measure, at a pre-arbitral stage, only on the ground that the
document is not stamped, will be too onerous upon a party as it
may not necessarily intend to avoid the payment of stamp duty,
but intend to seek interim relief at a very nascent stage. The Full Bench of the Bombay High Court in case of
Hemendra Rasikla Ghia Vs.Subodh Mody22 etc, has ruled upon
an issue, as to the stage when the objection to the admissibility
and/or proof of document should be raised; considered and
decided by the Court. Broadly classifying the admissibility of
documents in evidence into three classes, the first relating to the
insufficient stamping and the objection raised to that effect, it is
held that the Court before which the objection is taken, has to
judicially determine the mater as soon as the document is
tendered in evidence and before it is marked as an exhibit, and
once the document is exhibited, Section 36 of the Act come into
operation. Definitely, it is thus indicative of the stage when the
non-payment of stamp duty can be located as a deficiency in
reading the document in evidence. considered view that an inadequately/insufficiently stamped
instrument/document/agreement shall not preclude the party
from seeking interim measures as contemplated under Section 9 of the Arbitration Act and it is definitely not the stage when there
can be a determination of the sufficiency/non-sufficiency of
stamp duty as distinguished at the stage of Section 11 when the
Constitution Bench has clearly pronounced that when the
document, either in original or a certified copy is produced, it is
duty bound to act under Section 33 of the Stamp Act, as it has
been held that the provision of Section 33 and the bar u/s.35 of
the Stamp Act, would render the Arbitration Agreement
contained in such instrument as being non-existent in law, unless
it is validated under the Stamp Act . On recording that the petitions filed u/s.9 deserve
consideration on merits, despite the Arbitration clause contained
in an agreement, or an independent arbitration agreement, not
having been sufficiently stamped, I have directed listing of the
petitions for consideration on merits on 9th November, 2023 at
2.30 p.m.

 ( SMT. BHARATI DANGRE, J.)

Tilak ::: Uploaded on - 09/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 22/02/2024 20:29:31 :::