Shri Vinay Gandhi, Counsel for the petitioner. Shri Satyam Agrawal, Counsel for the respondent No. 1. Shri Anand Barnard, Counsel for respondent no.2. Shri R.K. Verma, Add. Advocate General for respondent no.3. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 1. On account of difference of opinion between the Hon'ble

Judges comprising Division Bench on 28-7-2020, this matter has been

listed before this Bench after obtaining Administrative Sanction of 2 Hon'ble the Chief Justice by order dated 3-9-2020, passed under Rule

11 of Chapter IV of the High Court of M.P. Rules, 2008. 2. The facts of this case have already been mentioned in detail in

order dated 28-7-2020. Therefore, in order to avoid repetition, only

those facts would be referred in short, which are necessary for

disposal of this case. 3. By this writ petition, the petitioner has sought the quashment of

impugned F.I.R. dated 24-11-2019 lodged against him seeking the

following relief(s): 4. The necessary facts in short are that an F.I.R. has been

registered by Special Police Establishment (Lokayaut), Bhopal

bearing Crime No. 0282 of 2019 against 16 persons, including the

petitioner for offence under Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act,

1988 and Section 120-B of Indian Penal Code. 5. The facts leading to the registration of the impugned F.I.R. are

that by order dated 18th Aug 2006 issued by the Aviation Ministry,

State of M.P., permission was granted to enter into an agreement with

M/s Yash Air Ltd. for the use of Datana Air Strip (Ujjain) on the

conditions that M/s Yash Air Ltd. would maintain the air strip with all 3 the security equipments, Taxi Track, Boundary Wall etc. under the

supervision and control of Collector, Ujjain, through State P.W.D.

Department. The order dated 18-8-2006 by which permission was

granted on certain conditions reads as under : 'kklu }kjk ogu ugha fd;k tkosxk ,oa gokbZ ifV~~V;ksa dh
 lqj{kk dh iw.kZ ftEesnkjh esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj dh
 gksxhA lqj{kk O;oLFkk dh leh{kk@fujh{k.k ftyk dysDVj }kjk
 le;&le; ij dh tkosxh rFkk dysDVj }kjk fn;s x;s lq>koksa
 dks esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj }kjk ekU; fd;k tkosxkA
 4- esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj vko';d lapkj ds fy;s
 Ogh-,p-,Q- midj.k ds dz; rFkk la/kkj.k dk O;; Lo;a ogu
 djsaxhA
 5- jkT; 'kklu gokbZ ifV~~V;ksa ij vU; fdlh Hkh laLFkk dks
 izf'k{k.k mM+kus lapkfyr djus dh vuqefr tkjh dj ldsxkA 4 6- jkT; 'kklu ds foeku@gsyhdkIVj dh mM+kusa fuckZ/k :i ls
gokbZ ifV~~V;ksa ij lapkfyr gksxh vkSj esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM]
bankSj }kjk LFkkfir @ la/kkfjr Ogh-,p-,Q- midj.k dk fu
%'kqYd mi;ksx fd;k tk ldsxkA
7- esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj dks U;wure 2-50 djksM+ dh
ifjlEifRr gksus ds larks"ktud nLrkost jkT; 'kklu] lapkyd
foekuu ,oa lacaf/kr ftyk dysDVj dks izLrqr djuk gksxkA
8- esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj dks izR;sd o"kZ 1-50 yk[k
¼:- ,d yk[k ipkl gtkj ek=½ ¼'kqYd½ 'kkldh; dks"k esa
lapkyd foekuu dks ns; cSad M~zkQV ds ek/;e ls tek djuk
gksxkA bl jkf'k dk 25 izfr'kr vfxze ds :i esa ,d eq'r
lapkyd foekuu ls vuqca/k ds iwoZ tek djuk gksxkA 'ks"k jkf'k
lapkyd] foekuu ds lkFk vuqca/k lekIr gksus ds i'pkr
'kkldh; dks"k esa tek dh tk,xhA
9- gokbZ iV~Vh ds mi;ksx gsrq fu/kkZfjr 'kqYd esa izfro"kZ 5
izfr'kr dh o`f) Loeso gks tk;sxh] ;g jkf'k esllZ ;'k ,;j
fyfeVsM] bankSj dks Hkqxrku djuk gksxhA blds fy;s i``Fkd ls
dksbZ vkns'k tkjh ugha gksxsA jkT; 'kklu }kjk le;&le; ij
bl 'kqYd esa vkSj o``f) Hkh dh tk ldsxhA
10- gokbZ iV~Vh ds la/kkj.k dk;Z dks iw.kZ nkf;Ro
esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj dk gksxk] vkSj bl gsrq
dk;Zikyu ;a=h ¼Hk-@la-½ yksd fuekZ.k foHkkx ds ikl
esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsV] bankSj }kjk vfxze jkf'k tek djuh
gksxhA dk;Zikyu ;a=h ¼Hk-@la-½ yksd fuekZ.k foHkkx }kjk
la/kkj.k dk;Z dysDVj ds fu;a=.k ,oa funsZ'ku ij fd;k
tkosxkA
11- esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj dks foeku@gSyhdkIVj ds
la/kkj.k dh lqfo/kk Lo;a miyC/k djkuk gksxhA
12- esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj dks ifjlEifRr ds vkdyu
ds fy;s lEifRr;ksa ds laca/k esa vadsf{kr vafre [kkrs] vkfMV
fjiksVZ] pkVZMZ ,dkmaV dk izek.k i=] ykHk gkfu [kkrk ,oa
cSysal 'khV vkfn izR;sd o"kZ lapkyd foekuu ds le{k izLrqr
djuk gksaxsA
13- jkT; 'kklu }kjk fu/kkZfjr yk;lsal Qhl ¼'kqYd½ jkT;
'kklu dks vnk djus dh cSad xkjaVh esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM
bUnkSj }kjk nsuh gksxhA
14- esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj dks 'kklu }kjk cuk;s x;s
fu;eksa ,oa ekin.Mksa ds vuqlkj ch-vks-Vh- ds vk/kkj ij vius
Lo;a ds ykxr ,oa [kpksZsa ls egkfuns'kd] ukxj foekuu] Hkkjr
ljdkj ds ekin.Mksa dk iw.kZr% ikyu djrs gq;s gSaxj] 5 fMLijly] VSDlh Vz~sd] ckm.Mz~h oky bR;kfn dk fuekZ.k ,oa
fodkl dk;Z dk;Zikyu ;a=h yksd fuekZ.k foHkkx ds ek/;e ls
ftyk dysDVj ds fu;a=.k ,oa funsZ'ku esa djuk gksxk] ftl ij
jkT; 'kklu dk iw.kZ LokfeRo gksxkA esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM]
bankSj dks dksbZ LokfeRo izkIr ugha gksxkA bl lEifRr ds fo:)
esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj }kjk dksbZ _.k bR;kfn izkIr
ugha fd;k tk ldsxkA rFkk bl laifRr dks esllZ ;'k ,;j
fyfeVsM] bankSj }kjk fodz;@ca/kd] fxjoh bU;kfn ugha j[kk tk
ldsxhA lkFk gh fdlh vU; O;fDr@dEiuh@laLFkk dks
LFkkukarfjr ;k mi;ksx djus dh vuqefr esllZ ;'k ,;j
fyfeVsM] bankSj }kjk ugha nh tk ldsxhA vko';d fuekZ.k ,oa
fodkl dk;ksZa rFkk gokbZ iV~~Vh ds ftl Hkkx dk mi;ksx esllZ
;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj }kjk fd;k tkusk gS] mldh vuqefr
dysDVj dh vuq'kalk ij lapkyd foekuu }kjk nh tkosxhA
esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj }kjk ;g vuqefr lapkyd
foekuu ls vuqca/k ls iwoZ izkIr djuk gksxhA
15- esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj dks foeku dh lqj{kk ,oa
cpko] i;kZoj.k] vfXu] fpfdRlk vkfn ds laca/k esa cuk, x,
oS/kkfud fu;eksa dk dM+kbZ ls ikyu djuk gksxkA
16- esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj }kjk ;g lqfuf'kpr fd;k
tkosxk fd fdlh vU; laLFkk }kjk gokbZ iV~Vh dk mi;ksx
fd;s tkus esa dksbZ ck/kk mRiUu ugha gksA
17- esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj }kjk lapkfyr xfrfof/k;ksa]
la/kkj.k] fuekZ.k laca/kh dk;ksZa dk fujh{k.k egkfuns'kd] ukxj
foekuu] Hkkjr ljdkj] jkT; 'kklu] lapkyd foekuu rFkk
lacaf/kr ftys ds dysDVj }kjk le;&le; ij fd;k tk
ldsxkA
18- jkT; 'kklu fdlh Hkh le; ;g vuqefr nks ekg dh lwpuk
nsdj fujLr djus dks l{ke gksxkA blds fy;s fdlh Hkh
U;k;ky;hu vFkok vU; oS/kkfud fu;e@ikoafn;kWW vkfn ykxw
ugh gksxhA
19- esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bnkSj }kjk mDr 'krksZ ij viuh
lgefr dk 'kiFk i= ,oa fof/kor vuqca/k lapkyd foekuu ds
lkFk fu"ikfnr fd;s tkus ds mijkar gh gokbZ iV~Vh dk
mi;ksx fd;k tk ldsxkA
20- esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj }kjk gokbZ iV~Vh dk
mi;ksx 7 ¼lkr½ o"kZ rd fd,s tkus gsrq lapkyd foekuu ds
lkFk vuqca/k fd;k tkuk gksxkA jkT; 'kklu }kjk blesa
o`f)@uohuhdj.k dh tk ldsxhA 6 21- jkf=dkyhu ikfdZax O;oLFkk ds fy;s ikfdZax&os dk O;;
esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj dks ogu djuk gksxk rkfd
eq[; gokbZ ifV~V;kW lapkyu gsrq eqDr jgsA
22- jkf= esa foeku ds lqj{kk O;oLFkk ds laca/k esa dysDVj ls
leUo; dj Hkqxrku vk/kkfjr iqfyl dh O;oLFkk
esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj dks Lo;a djuk gksxhA
23- foeku dh jkf=dkyhu ikfdZax gsrq izR;sd jkf=dkyhu
ikfdZax ds fy;s :i;s 200@& ¼:i;s nks lkS dsoy½ izfr jkf=
dh nj ls ,sls foeku ftudk otu 5700 fdyksxzke ls vf/kd
gks vkSj 5700 fdyksxzke ls de otu okys foeku gsrq :i;s
100@& ¼:i;s lkS dsoy½ izfr jkf= dh nj ls Hkqxrku djuk
gksxkA ;g jkf'k 'kkldh; dks"k esa lapkyd foekuu dks ns;
cSad M~zkQ~V ds ek/;e ls lacaf/kr ftys ds dysDVj ds ikl
tek djuk gksxhA ;g jkf'k le; ij tek gks ;g lapkyd
foekuu ,oa ftyk dysDVj }kjk lqfuf'pr fd;k tk;sxkA
24- jkT; 'kklu mDr fu/kkZfjr 'krksZa esa fcuk fdlh iwoZ lwpuk
ds fdlh Hkh le; ifjorZu] la'kks/ku ,oa uohuhdj.k djus gsrq
l{ke gksxk] tks esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj dks ekU; djuk
gksxkA
25- mijksDr 'krksZ esa ls fdlh Hkh 'krZ dk ikyu
esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] bankSj }kjk ugh fd, tkus ij vFkok
jkT; 'kklu dks vko';drk gksus ij] ;g vuqefr fcuk fdlh
iwoZ lwpuk ds Loeso fu"izHkkoh gks tk;sxhA

 e/;izns'k ds jkT;iky ds uke ls rFkk
 vkns'kkuqlkj

 &gLrk{kj&
 14@8@06
 ¼Mh0ih0frokjh½
 lfpo]
 e/;izns'k 'kklu] foekuu foHkkx

 i`0dz-&,Q 9&6@2006@iSarkfyl Hkksiky fnukad 18&8&2006 7 1- egkfuns'kd] ukxj foekuu] Hkkjr ljdkj] ubZ fnYyhA
 2- izeq[k lfpo] e0iz0'kklu] foRr foHkkx] ea=ky; HkksikyA
 3- izeq[k lfpo] e0iz0'kklu] x`g foHkkx] ea=ky;] HkksikyA
 4- izeq[k lfpo] e0iz0'kklu] yksd fuekZ.k foHkkx] ea=ky;]
 HkksikyA
 5- iqfyl egkfuns'kd] iqfyl eq[;ky;] HkksikyA
 6- izeq[k vfHk;ark] yksd fuekZ.k foHkkx] e0iz0HkksikyA
 7- lapkyd foekuu~] foekuu lapkyuky;] HkksikyA
 8- vk;qDr] mTtSu laHkkx] mTtSuA
 9- vij lfpo] eq[; lfpo dk;kZy; HkksikyA
 10- dysDVj] mTtSu ¼e0iz0½A
 11- iqfyl v/kh{kd] mTtSu ¼e0iz0½A
 12- dk;Zikyu ;a=h] yksd fuekZ.k foHkkx] mTtSu ¼Hk-@l-½
 e0iz0A
 13- esllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM] 36&lh] >kcqvk Vkoj] 9oh
 eafty] 170] vkj-,u-Vh- ekxZ] bankSj ¼e0iz0½A
 dh vksj lwpukFkZ ,oa vko';d dk;Zokgh gsrq vxzsf"krA
 &gLRkk{kj&
 ¼Mh0ih0frokjh½
 lfpo]
 e/;izns'k 'kklu] foekuu foHkkx 6. Accordingly, the State of Madhya Pradesh entered into an

agreement dated 31-8-2006 with M/s Yash Air Ltd. thereby granting

permission to M/s Yash Air Ltd. (Which is a private body) to use the

Datana Air Strip situated at Ujjain on the conditions mentioned in the

agreement itself. It is not out of place to mention here that originally 8 the agreement was executed for a period of 7 (Seven years) on

payment of yearly license fee of Rs. 1.50 Lacs only (Rs. One Lac

Fifty Thousand Only) with incremental enhancement of 5% per

year.Thereafter, the State of M.P., by its letter dated 17-10-2008,

issued a corrigendum that it has been decided that the period of

agreement should be read as 10 (Ten) years in place of 7 (Seven)

years. Thus, it is clear that M/s Yash Air Ltd. was granted permission

for using the Datana Air Strip of Ujjain (M.P.) for a period of 10 years

from the year 2006. The agreement was signed by the Director,

Aviation, on behalf of the State Govt. The copy of the agreement

reads as under : fd;k tkosxkA
4- ;g fd ;'k ,;j vko';d lapkj ds fy;s Ogh-,p-,~Q-
midj.k ds dz; rFkk la/kkj.k dk O;; Lo;a ogu djsxhA
5- ;g fd jkT; 'kklu gokbZ ifV~V;ksa ij vU; fdlh Hkh laLFkk
dks izf'k{k.k mM+kus lapkfyr djus dh vuqefr tkjh dj
ldsxkA
6- ;g fd jkT; 'kklu ds foeku@gSyhdkWIVj dh mM+kus
fuckZ/k:i ls gokbZ ifV~V;ksa ij lapkfyr gksxh vkSj ;'k ,;j }
kjk LFkkfir@la/kkfjr Ogh-,p-,Q-mijd.k dk fu%'kqYd mi;ksx
fd;k tk ldsxkA
7- ;g fd ;'k ,;j U;wure :- 2-50 djksM+ dh ifjlaifRr gksus
ds larks"ktud nLrkost jkT; 'kklu lapkyd foekuu ,oa
lacaf/kr ftyk dysDVj dks izLrqr djsxkA
8- ;g fd ;'k ,;j izR;sd o"kZ :- 1-50 yk[k ¼:- ,d yk[k
ipkl gtkj ek=½ fdjk;k ¼a'kqYd½ 'kkldh; dks"k esa lapkyd
foekuu dks ns; cSad Mz~kQ~V ds ek/;e ls tek
djsxkA ;'k ,;j bl jkf'k dk 25 izfr'kr :-37]500@&
vfxze ds :i esa ,d eq'r lapkyd foekuu dks vuqca/k iwoZ
laspqfj;u cSad vkWQ iatkc fy0 ds cSadlZ pSd dzekad 021272
fnukad 21-07-2006 ds }kjk tek dh rFkk 'ks"k jkf'k lapkyd
foekuu ds lkFk vuqca/k laikfnr gksus ds i'pkr 'kkldh; dks"k
esa tek dh tkosxhA
9- ;g fd gokbZ iV~Vh ds mi;ksx gsrq mDr fu/kkZj.k 'kqYd esa
izfro"kZ 5 izfr'kr dh o`f) Loeso gks tk,xh tks ;'k ,;j }kjk
Hkqxrku dh tkosxh ftlds fy;s izFkd ls dksbZ vuqca/k@vkns'k
tkjh ugha gksxk rFkk jkT; 'kklu le;&le; ij bl 'kqYd esa
o`f) dj ldsxkA 10 10- ;g fd gokbZ iV~Vh ds la/kkj.k dk;Z dk iw.kZ
nkf;Ro ;'k ,;j dk gksxk vkSj bl gsrq ;'k ,;j }kjk
dk;Zikyu ;a=h]¼Hk-@l-½yksd fuekZ.k foHkkx ds ikl vfxze
jkf'k tek djsxkA dk;Zikyu ;a=h]¼Hk-@l-½ yksd fuekZ.k foHkkx
}kjk la/kkj.k dk;Z dysDVj ds fu;a=.k ,oa funsZ'ku ij fd;k
tkosxkA
11- ;g fd ;'k ,;j dks foeku@gsyhdkWIVj ds la/kkj.k dh
lqfo/kk Lo;a miyC/k djkuh gksxhA
12- ;g fd ;'k ,;j laifRr;ksa ds laca/k esa vafre [kkrs] vkfMV
fjiksVZ] pkVMZ ,dkmUVsUV dk izek.ki=] ykHk gkfu [kkrk ,oa
csysUl&'khV vkfn lapkyd foekuu ds le{k ifjlaifRr;ksa ds
vkdyu gsrq izfro"kZ izLrqr djsxhA
13- ;g fd ;'k ,;j fu/kkZfjr ykbZlsUl Qhl ¼'kqYd½ jkT;
'kklu dks vnk djus ds laca/k esa cSad xkjaVh izLrqr djsxhA
14- ;g fd ;'k ,;j]'kklu }kjk cuk;s x;s fu;eksa ,oa
ekin.Mksa ds vuqlkj ch-Vh-vks- ds vk/kkj ij vius Lo;a dh
ykxr ,oa [kpksZa ls egkfunsZ'kd ukxj foekuu]Hkkjr ljdkj ds
ekin.Mksa dk iw.kZr% ikyu djrs gq;s gSaxj] fMLijly] VSDlh
Vsz~sd] ckmUMz~h okWy bR;kfn dk fuekZ.k ,oa fodkl dk;Z ikyu
;a=h yksd fuekZ.k foHkkx ds ek/;e ls ftyk dysDVj ds
fu;a=.k ,oa funsZ'ku esa djk;sxh ftl ij jkT; 'kklu dk iw.kZ
LokfeRo gksxkA ;'k ,;j dks bldk dksbZ LokfeRo izkIr ugha
gksxk] u gh muds }kjk bl laifRr ds fo:) dksbZ _.k
bR;kfn izkIr fd;k tk ldsxk vkSj u gh muds }kjk bls
fodz;@ca/kd] fxjoh vkfn j[kk tk ldsxk] u gh os fdlh
vU; O;fDr@daiuh@laLFkk dks blds mi;ksx ;k LFkkukUrfjr
djus dh vuqefr ns ldsaxsA vko';d fuekZ.k ,oa fodkl dk;Z
rFkk gokbZ iV~Vh ds ftl Hkkx dk mi;ksx ;'k ,;j }kjk
fd;k tkuk gS] mldh vuqefr dysDVj dh vuq'kalk ij]
lapkyd foekuu }kjk iznku dh tkosxh tks os lapkyd
foekuu ls vuqca/k iwoZ izkIr djsaxsA
15- ;g fd ;'k ,;j }kjk foeku dh lqj{kk] Ik;kZoj.k] vfXu]
fpfdRlk vkfn ds laca/k esa cuk, x;s oS/kkfud fu;eksa dk
dM+kbZ ls ikyu fd;k tkosxk ,oa muds }kjk ;g lqfuf'pr
fd;k tkosxk fd vU; laLFkk }kjk gokbZ iV~Vh dk mi;ksx
fd;s tkus esa dksbZ ck/kk mRiUu u gksA
16- ;g fd ;'k ,;j }kjk lapkfyr xfrfof/k;ksa] la/kkj.k]
fuekZ.k dk;ksZa vkfn dk fujh{k.k] egkfunsZ'kd] ukxj foekuu]
Hkkjr ljdkj] jkT; 'kklu] lapkyd foekuu rFkk lacaf/kr
ftys ds dysDVj }kjk fd;k tk ldsxkA 11 17- ;g fd jkT; 'kklu fdlh Hkh le; ;g vuqefr nks ekg
dh iwoZ lwpuk nsdj fujLr dj ldsxk vFkok blesa
o`f)@uohuhdj.k dj ldsxkA bl laca/k esa dksbZ U;k;ky;hu
vFkok vU; oS/kkfud fu;e@ikcf/k;ka ykxw ugha gksxhA
18- ;g fd jkf=dkyhu ikfdZax O;oLFkk ds fy, ikfdZax&os dk
O;; eSllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM bankSj dks ogu djuk gksxk rkfd
gokbZ ifV~V;kWa lapkyu gsrq eqDr jgsA lkFk gh jkf= O;;
foekuksa dh lqj{kk O;oLFkk ds laca/k esa dysDVj ls leUo; dj
Hkqxrku vk/kkfjr iqfyl dh O;oLFkk Hkh mUgsa Lo;a ds O;; ij
djuh gksxhA
19- ;g fd foeku dh jkf=dkyhu ikfdZax gsrq izR;sd
jkf=dkyhu ikfdZax ds fy;s :i;s 200@& ¼:i;s nks lkS
dsoy½ izfr jkf= dh nj ls ,sls foeku ftudk out 5700
fdyksxzke ls vf/kd gks vkSj 5700 fdyksxzke ls de otu okys
foeku gsrq :i;s 100@& ¼:i;s lkS dsoy½ izfr jkf= dh nj
ls Hkqxrku djuk gksxkA ;g jkf'k 'kkldh; dks"k esa lapkyd
foekuu dks ns; cSad Mz~kQV ds ek/;e ls lacaf/kr ftys ds
dysDVj ds ikl tek djuk gksxhA ;g jkf'k le; ij tek gks
;g lapkyd foekuu ,oa ftyk dysDVj }kjk lqfuf'pr fd;k
tk;sxkA
20- ;g fd jkT; 'kklu dks ;g vf/kdkj gksxk fd og mDr
fu/kkZfjr 'krksZ esa le;&le; ij ifjorZu] la'kks/ku ,oa
uohuhdj.k dj ldsxk lkFk gh jkT; 'kklu dks ;g Hkh
vf/kdkj gS fd mijksDr 'krksZ esa ls fdlh 'krZ dk
ikyu ;'k ,;j }kjk u fd;s tkus dh fLFkfr esa vFkok jkT;
'kklu dks vko';drk gksus ij ;g vuqefr fcuk fdlh iwoZ
lwpuk ds fujLr dh tk ldsxh vFkok Loeso fu"izHkkoh gks
tkosxh] ftlds fy;s ;'k ,;j lger gSA
21- ;g fd fdlh Hkh izdkj ds fookn dh fLFkfr esa U;k;kf/kdkj
{ks= HkksikygksxkA
vr% ge i{kdkjksa us mDr vuqca/k ij lkf{k;ksa ds le{k fcuk
fdlh ncko ds gLrk{kj dj fn;s gS tks lun jgs ,oa oDr ij
dke vkosA
xokg%&

1- (D.P.Motwani) 2. (TARUN YARMO)
 gLrk{kj
 31@8@06 12 eSllZ ;'k ,;j fyfeVsM]
 6&lh>kcqvk Vkoj] 8oh eafty
 170] vkj-,u-Vh-ekxZ bankSj
 xokg%&
 1- (D.P.Motwani) 2. (TARUN YARMO)

 gLrk{kj
 lapkyd foekuu]
 foekuu lapkyuky;]
 jktkHkkst ,jksMe]
 cSjkx<+] Hkksiky 7. It is not out of place to mention here that, the name of M/s Yash

Air Ltd., Indore was subsequently changed to M/s Centaur Aviation

Academy Ltd. (In short Aviation Academy). By letter dated 27-11-

2012, M/s Centaur Aviation Academy Ltd. informed the Director

Aviation Department, State of M.P., about the change in name. The

Director, Aviation Department by its letter dated 21-1-2013, sought

opinion from the Deputy Secretary, Aviation Department, State of

M.P., as to whether, the name of M/s Yash Air Ltd can be changed in

the record or not? Accordingly, the Deputy Secretary, Department of

Aviation, State of M.P., by its letter dated 4-10-2013, informed the

Director, Aviation, that there is no obstruction in permitting the

change of name of M/s Yash Air Ltd. in the records. Accordingly, The

Director Aviation by its letter dated 8-10-2013 informed the Vice

President, Aviation Academy, that in the agreement which was 13 executed between M/s Yash Air Ltd. and the State Govt. for use of

Datana Air Strip, Ujjain, the name of M/s Yash Air Ltd. would be read

as M/s Centaur Aviation Limited. Thus, it is clear that M/s Centaur

Aviation Academy Ltd. became liable to fulfill all the conditions

which were mentioned in the agreement dated 31-8-2006. 8. It is the case of the prosecution, that the S.P.E. (Lokayukt)

received one complaint dated 12-3-2015 from One Piyush Jain and

another complaint dated 6-7-2015 from Bharat Bamane, wherein

allegations were made that a huge embezzlement has taken place and

apart from other allegations, it was also alleged that Aviation

Academy was allowed to use the Air Strip without depositing rent. 9. Thereafter, a preliminary enquiry was registered on 22-7-

2015and the Enquiry Officer, submitted its preliminary enquiry report,

on the basis of which the impugned F.I.R. has been lodged. 10. The F.I.R. has already been reproduced in order dated 28-7-

2020. There is a difference of opinion as to whether any offence is

made out against the petitioner or not? There is no difference of

opinion on the question of maintainability of F.I.R. in view of

amended provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act . However, the

Counsel for the respondent no. 3, once again argued at length with

regard to the bar as contained in Para 17- A of Prevention of

Corruption Act and submitted that in absence of approval, no enquiry

or investigation can take place, whereas the Counsel for the petitioner 14 didnot raise that issue in the light of the fact that there is no difference

of opinion on this issue between the two Hon'ble Judges. 11. It is submitted by the Counsel for the petitioner, that by order

dated 7-8-2014, the petitioner was posted as Collector, Ujjain and was

transferred by order dated 27-8-2016. It is submitted that as per the

F.I.R., M/s Yash Air Ltd./Aviation Academy had not deposited the

license Fee from the year 2007 till 2013. It is submitted that since, the

petitioner was posted at Ujjain in the year 2014, therefore, he cannot

be made liable for any default which had taken place prior to his

posting. Further more, it is incorrect to say that there was any default

in payment of license fee. The petitioner has drawn the attention of

this Court to the Covering letters/drafts starting from the year 2006 till

Aug 2016 which have been filed as Annexure A/8, A/9,A/11,A/12,

A/13,A/14,A/16,A/17, and A/18, to show that the license fee was

deposited well within time without any default. It is further submitted

that after the year 2016, the Aviation Academy filed W.P. No.

7411/2016 for renewal of lease which was allowed by the Writ Court

by order dated 26-4-2017 (Indore Bench), against which W.A. No

356/2017 was filed by the State which was dismissed by order 25-7-

2017.Civil Appeal No. 8243/2018 was preferred by the State Govt.,

which was allowed by the Supreme Court by order dated 13-8-2018

and the orders passed by the Writ Court as well as Writ Appeal Court

were set aside and the petition filed by the Aviation Academy was

dismissed with a direction to vacate the Airstrip within a period of 9 15 months. Since, various aircrafts of the Aviation Academy were parked,

therefore by order dated 27-5-2019, the Aviation Academy was

directed to deposit the outstanding License fee (From 2016-2019)

after adjusting the Earnest Money (of Ujjain and Ratlam Airstrips) and

accordingly, the Aviation Academy deposited the outstanding amount

of Rs. 1,64,526 on 15-6-2019. Thus, it is submitted that there is no

default on the part of the Aviation Academy in depositing the license

fee. It is further submitted that according to the F.I.R., the Aviation

Academy was required to bear the expenses of maintenance which

was not done, and accordingly, the maintenance was done by the State

Govt. by spending Rs. 292.32 lacs. It is submitted that the decision to

carry out the maintenance work was taken by the State and work order

was issued on 23-1-2014 and the work was completed on 15-7-2014. Thus, it is submitted that even if it is presumed that there was a

default on the part of the Aviation Academy in maintaining the

Airstrip, then the decision was taken by the State Govt. to ugrade the

Airstrip and the work of maintenance was already completed before

his joining as Collector, Ujjain. It is further submitted that there is no

allegation in the F.I.R. to the effect that the agreement or any default

on the part of the Aviation Academy was ever brought to the

knowledge of the Petitioner. Even if there is some default in making

payment of dues, then it would not involve any mens rea on the part

of the petitioner, unless and until, a specific allegation is made that the

petitioner had joined hands with the Aviation Academy and had

obtained some pecuniary advantage. It is further submitted that the 16 allegations made by the respondent no.1 in para 24 of its return were

duly replied by the petitioner in para 10 of his rejoinder. Further, it is

incorrect to say that outstanding license fee was deposited by the

Aviation Academy on 24-12-2019, but in fact the earnest money

which was already with the State Govt. was got encashed/adjusted. It

is further submitted that the preliminary enquiry has a legal sanctity in

the light of the Judgment passed by the Supreme Court in the case of Lalita Kumari Vs. State of U.P. reported in (2014) 2 SCC 1. It is

further submitted that the enquiry officer in its enquiry report has

specifically mentioned that the airstrip was operational till 2013 only,

whereas the petitioner had joined on 7-8-2014. The Counsel for the

Petitioner also submitted that in para 34,35 of the order dated 28-7-

2020, the facts of the case have been properly appreciated by Hon'ble

Shri Justice B.K. Shrivastava. To buttress his contentions, the Counsel

for the petitioner has relied upon the judgment passed by the Supreme

Court in the case of State of Haryana Vs. Bhajan Lal reported in

1992 Supp (1) SCC 335. 12. Per contra, the Counsel for respondent no.1 submitted that the

F.I.R. is not an encyclopedia. The F.I.R. was lodged on 24-11-2019

and the petition was filed on 16-12-2019 and thereafter, the interim

order was passed on 18-12-2019, thus, no breathing time was given to

the answering respondent to investigate the matter. It is further

submitted that it is well established principle of law that any

additional evidence, which would come on record during the 17 investigation, can be taken note of by the investigating agency. It is

submitted that in para 37 of the order dated 28-7-2020, it has been

observed by Hon'ble Shri Justice B.K. Shrivasatva, "that no

allegations were made by both the complainants against the Petitioner,

and in fact the name of the petitioner was not mentioned at all in their

complaints". It is submitted that the investigation cannot be confined

to the allegations made in the complaint and if the investigating

agency comes to a conclusion that some more persons are also

involved in the commission of offence, then they can also be

implicated. It is further submitted that as per the agreement, the

maintenance work of the airstrip was to be done by the Aviation

Academy, but that was not done, therefore, the State Govt. was

compelled to undertake the maintenance work by spending Rs. 292.39

lacs, which is recoverable from the Aviation Academy but that has not

been done by the Petitioner. It is further submitted that as per the

agreement, Night Parking Charges were payable by the Aviation

Academy, but that was not done. It is submitted that it is incorrect to

say that the Aviation Academy was not operating or using the airstrip,

because in WP No. 7411/2016, it has been specifically claimed by the

Aviation Academy, that 13 aircrafts are parked and operational and

had sought renewal of agreement. Thus, it is incorrect to say that the

Datana Air Strip became non-operational from the year 2013. It is

further submitted since, the investigation is at the intial stage,

therefore, unborn baby should not be killed. It is further submitted that

no malafide has been alleged against the investigating agency, and the 18 allegations are required to be investigated in detail. To buttress his

contentions, the Counsel for the respondent no.1 has relied upon the

judgments passed by the Supreme Court in the case of State of T.N.

Vs. S. Martin , reported in ( 2018) 5 SCC718,Mahavir Prasad Gupta

Vs. State of National Capital Territory of Delhi reported in (2000) 8

SCC115, and State of Telangana Vs. Habeeb Abdullah Jeelani

reported in (2017) 2 SCC 779. 13. The Counsel for respondent no. 2 submitted that a detailed

return and additional return have been filed and his arguments are

confined to the pleadings and documents filed along with return/Add. return. 14. The Counsel for respondent no. 3 submitted that an opinion

from the Law Department was obtained and in the light of amended

provisions of Section 17-A of Prevention of Corruption Act, no

investigation can be done, in absence of approval by the competent

authority. 15. In reply, it is submitted by the Counsel for the Petitioner, that

the respondent no.1 cannot add or subtract any additional allegation in

the F.I.R. When there is no allegation of non-recovery of Night

Parking Charges, then the petitioner cannot be made an accused in the

F.I.R. It is further submitted that in case of a contractual breach, the

F.I.R. should not be lodged. It is further submitted that the petitioner is

not a signatory to the agreement and he has specifically pleaded that 19 he was not informed about the agreement. So far as the question of

non-recovery of maintenance amount is concerned, in fact, the amount

of Rs. 292.39 lac was spent by the State for the maintenance of the

airstrip, and if the same has not been recovered so far, then, all his

successor Collectors, should have been made an accused. It is further

submitted that the petitioner is a decorated officer, and has been

awarded various certificates of appreciation. 16. Heard the learned Counsel for the parties. 17. As already pointed out that there is no difference of opinion,

between the Hon'ble Judges on the question of maintainability of

F.I.R. However, as the maintainability of F.I.R. in the light of Section

17-A of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 has been once again

attacked by the Counsel for the respondent no.3, therefore, this Court

apart from the reasoning which has already been given by my

esteemed brothers in order dated 28-7-2020, would like to add certain

more reasons to hold that the F.I.R. and the investigation is

maintainable. 18. Section 17-A of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 reads as

under : 19. It is well settled principle of law that where the language of a

Statute is plain and unambigous, then the Court must give literal

meaning to the words used in the statute. 20. The Supreme Court in the case of Nathi Devi Vs. Radha Devi

Gupta , reported in (2005) 2 SCC 271 has held as under : 21. From the plain reading of Section 17-A of Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988, it is clear that an officer can claim protection

from "enquiry" or "investigation" only when he has made any

"recommendation" or "decision". The general meaning of word

"decision" means, the action or process of deciding something or

resolving a question. 22. Thus, it can be said that a "decision" means an act by which an

Executive or Authority decides to act in a particular manner in a given

set of facts or problems. Therefore, in order to apply the provisions of Section 17-A of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, there must be 22 "decision" or "recommendation" by an authority against which an

enquiry or investigation is under contemplation. 23. Maintaining silence on a particular issue cannot be said to be a

"recommendation" or "decision". Further, it is the defence of the

petitioner himself, that he was not aware of the agreement which was

executed between the State Govt. and M/s Yash Air Ltd. Thus, it is not

the case of the petitioner, that he had taken any "decision" or made

any "recommendation" in the matter. 24. Thus, in the present investigation, neither the "decision" nor

"recommendation" of the petitioner is under scanner, therefore, in the

considered opinion of this Court, the requirement of approval before

"enquiry" or "investigation" as required under Section 17-A of

Prevention of Corruption Act, would not apply. In the case of Manoj Prasad Vs. CBI , the High Court of Delhi,

by Judgment dated 11-1-2019 passed in W.P. (Cri) 3292/2018 has

held as under : ........The purpose of Section 17A can be read to be only
 to provide protection to officers/public servants who
 discharge their official functions and/or duties with
 diligence, fairly, in an unbiased manner and to the best of
 their ability and judgment, without any motive for their
 personal advantage or favour. A public servant cannot be 23 possibly left to be under the constant apprehension that
 bonafide decisions taken by him/her would be open to
 enquiry or inquiry or investigation, on the whimsical
 complaint of a stranger. Section 17A as it reads and the
 legislative intent in its enactment can only be to protect
 public servants in the bonafide discharge of official
 functions or duties. However, when the act of a public
 servant is ex-facie criminal or constitutes an offence,
 prior approval of the Government would not be
 necessary. 25. Further, the Telangana High Court in the case of Katti

Nagaseshanna Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh by judgment dated 16-

11-2018 passed in Cr.Petition No. 9044 of 2018 has held as under : 26. In the present case, the preliminary enquiry was already

initated in the year 2015 and was pending on the date when Section

17-A of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, came into force,

accordingly, it is held that the benefit of Section 17-A of Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988 is not available to the petitioner. 27. Now, the question for consideration is that whether the

impugned F.I.R. discloses cognizable offence against the petitioner or

not? 28. Before considering the allegations against the petitioner, this

Court would like to consider the law laid down by the Supreme Court,

governing the powers of the High Court to quash the F.I.R. 29. The Supreme Court in the case of Munshiram v. State of

Rajasthan , reported in (2018) 5 SCC 678 has held as under : The Supreme Court in the case of Teeja Devi v. State of

Rajasthan reported in (2014) 15 SCC 221 has held as under : The Supreme Court in the case of State of Orissa v. Ujjal

Kumar Burdhan , reported in (2012) 4 SCC 547 has held as under : Diermeier v. State of W.B. , while explaining the scope
 and ambit of the inherent powers of the High Court under
 Section 482 of the Code, one of us (D.K. Jain, J.)
 speaking for the Bench, has observed as follows: (SCC p.
 251, para 20)
 "20. ... The section itself envisages three
 circumstances under which the inherent
 jurisdiction may be exercised, namely, (i) to give
 effect to an order under the Code; (ii) to prevent
 abuse of the process of court; and (iii) to otherwise
 secure the ends of justice. Nevertheless, it is
 neither possible nor desirable to lay down any
 inflexible rule which would govern the exercise of
 inherent jurisdiction of the court. Undoubtedly, the
 power possessed by the High Court under the said
 provision is very wide but it is not unlimited. It has
 to be exercised sparingly, carefully and cautiously,
 ex debito justitiae to do real and substantial justice
 for which alone the court exists. It needs little
 emphasis that the inherent jurisdiction does not
 confer an arbitrary power on the High Court to act
 according to whim or caprice. The power exists to
 prevent abuse of authority and not to produce
 injustice." The Supreme Court in the case of XYZ v. State of Gujarat reported in (2019) 10 SCC 337 has held as under : (Underline supplied)

 The Supreme Court in the case of S. Martin (Supra) has held as

under : The Supreme Court in the case of S. Khushboo v. Kanniammal reported in (2010) 5 SCC 600 has held as under : Bhajan Lal to take note of two such guidelines which are
 relevant for the present case: (SCC pp. 378-79, para 102)
 "(1) Where the allegations made in the first
 information report or the complaint, even if they
 are taken at their face value and accepted in their
 entirety do not prima facie constitute any offence
 or make out a case against the accused. ***
 (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly
 attended with mala fide and/or where the
 proceeding is maliciously instituted with an
 ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the
 accused and with a view to spite him due to private
 and personal grudge." 18. It is of course a settled legal proposition that in a case
 where there is sufficient evidence against the accused,
 which may establish the charge against him/her, the
 proceedings cannot be quashed. In Medchl Chemicals &
 Pharma (P) Ltd. v. Biological E. Ltd. this Court observed
 that a criminal complaint or a charge-sheet can only be
 quashed by superior courts in exceptional circumstances,
 such as when the allegations in a complaint do not
 support a prima facie case for an offence. 19. Similarly, in Zandu Pharmaceutical Works Ltd. v.
 Mohd. Sharaful Haque this Court has held that criminal
 proceedings can be quashed but such a power is to be
 exercised sparingly and only when such an exercise is
 justified by the tests that have been specifically laid down
 in the statutory provisions themselves. It was further
 observed that superior courts "may examine the questions
 of fact" when the use of the criminal law machinery
 could be in the nature of an abuse of authority or when it
 could result in injustice. 20. In Shakson Belthissor v. State of Kerala this Court
 relied on earlier precedents to clarify that a High Court
 while exercising its inherent jurisdiction should not
 interfere with a genuine complaint but it should certainly
 not hesitate to intervene in appropriate cases. In fact it
 was observed: (SCC pp. 478, para 25)
 "25. ... '16. ... One of the paramount duties of the
 superior courts is to see that a person who is
 apparently innocent is not subjected to persecution
 and humiliation on the basis of a false and wholly
 untenable complaint.'*" The Supreme Court in the case of Amit Kapoor v. Ramesh

Chander reported in (2012) 9 SCC 460 has held as under : with no "element of criminality" and does not satisfy the
basic ingredients of a criminal offence, the court may be
justified in quashing the charge. Even in such cases, the
court would not embark upon the critical analysis of the
evidence. 27.9. Another very significant caution that the courts have
to observe is that it cannot examine the facts, evidence
and materials on record to determine whether there is
sufficient material on the basis of which the case would
end in a conviction; the court is concerned primarily with
the allegations taken as a whole whether they will
constitute an offence and, if so, is it an abuse of the
process of court leading to injustice. 27.10. It is neither necessary nor is the court called upon
to hold a full-fledged enquiry or to appreciate evidence
collected by the investigating agencies to find out
whether it is a case of acquittal or conviction.
27.11. Where allegations give rise to a civil claim and
also amount to an offence, merely because a civil claim is
maintainable, does not mean that a criminal complaint
cannot be maintained. 27.12. In exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 228
and/or under Section 482, the Court cannot take into
consideration external materials given by an accused for
reaching the conclusion that no offence was disclosed or
that there was possibility of his acquittal. The Court has
to consider the record and documents annexed therewith
by the prosecution. 27.13. Quashing of a charge is an exception to the rule of
continuous prosecution. Where the offence is even
broadly satisfied, the Court should be more inclined to
permit continuation of prosecution rather than its 31 quashing at that initial stage. The Court is not expected to
marshal the records with a view to decide admissibility
and reliability of the documents or records but is an
opinion formed prima facie. 27.14. Where the charge-sheet, report under Section
173(2) of the Code, suffers from fundamental legal
defects, the Court may be well within its jurisdiction to
frame a charge. 27.15. Coupled with any or all of the above, where the
Court finds that it would amount to abuse of process of
the Code or that the interest of justice favours, otherwise
it may quash the charge. The power is to be exercised ex
debito justitiae i.e. to do real and substantial justice for
administration of which alone, the courts exist. [Ref. State of W.B. v. Swapan Kumar
 GuhaMadhavrao Jiwajirao Scindia v. Sambhajirao Chandrojirao Angre; Janata Dal v.
 H.S. Chowdhary ; Rupan Deol Bajaj v. Kanwar Pal
 Singh Gill ; G. Sagar Suri v. State of U.P. ; Ajay
 Mitra v. State of M.P. ; Pepsi Foods Ltd. v. Special
 Judicial Magistrate ; State of U.P. v. O.P. Sharma ; Ganesh Narayan Hegde v. S. Bangarappa ; Zandu
 Pharmaceutical Works Ltd. v. Mohd. Sharaful
 Haque ; Medchl Chemicals & Pharma (P) Ltd. v.
 Biological E. Ltd. ; Shakson Belthissor v. State of
 Kerala ; V.V.S. Rama Sharma v. State of U.P. ; Chunduru Siva Ram Krishna v. Peddi Ravindra
 Babu ; Sheonandan Paswan v. State of Bihar ; State
 of Bihar v. P.P. Sharma ; Lalmuni Devi v. State of
 Bihar ; M. Krishnan v. Vijay Singh ; Savita v. State
 of Rajasthan and S.M. Datta v. State of Gujarat .]
27.16. These are the principles which individually and
preferably cumulatively (one or more) be taken into
consideration as precepts to exercise of extraordinary and
wide plenitude and jurisdiction under Section 482 of the
Code by the High Court. Where the factual foundation
for an offence has been laid down, the courts should be
reluctant and should not hasten to quash the proceedings
even on the premise that one or two ingredients have not
been stated or do not appear to be satisfied if there is
substantial compliance with the requirements of the
offence. 28. At this stage, we may also notice that the principle
stated by this Court in Madhavrao Jiwajirao Scindia was
reconsidered and explained in two subsequent judgments
of this Court in State of Bihar v. P.P. Sharma and M.N.
Damani v. S.K. Sinha . In the subsequent judgment, the
Court held that, that judgment did not declare a law of 32 universal application and what was the principle relating
 to disputes involving cases of a predominantly civil
 nature with or without criminal intent. The Supreme Court in the case of Ajay Kumar Das v. State of

Jharkhand , reported in (2011) 12 SCC 319 has held as under : The Supreme Court in the case of Mohd. Akram Siddiqui v. State of Bihar reported in (2019) 13 SCC 350 has held as under : The Supreme Court in the case of State of A.P. v. Gourishetty

Mahesh reported in (2010) 11 SCC 226has held as under : We make it clear that if the allegations set out in the
 complaint do not constitute the offence of which
 cognizance has been taken by the Magistrate, it is open to
 the High Court to quash the same in exercise of inherent
 powers under Section 482. The Supreme Court in the case of Padal Venkata Rama Reddy

Vs. Kovuri Satyanarayana Reddy reported in (2012) 12 SCC 437

has held as under : State of Haryana). If an effective alternative remedy is
 available, the High Court will not exercise its powers 35 under this section, specially when the applicant may not
have availed of that remedy. 14. The inherent power is to be exercised ex debito
justitiae, to do real and substantial justice, for
administration of which alone courts exist. Wherever any
attempt is made to abuse that authority so as to produce
injustice, the Court has power to prevent the abuse. It is,
however, not necessary that at this stage there should be a
meticulous analysis of the case before the trial to find out
whether the case ends in conviction or acquittal. ( Vide
Dhanalakshmi v. R. Prasanna Kumar ; Ganesh Narayan
Hegde v. S. Bangarappa and Zandu Pharmaceutical
Works Ltd. v. Mohd. Sharaful Haque .) 15. It is neither feasible nor practicable to lay down
exhaustively as to on what ground the jurisdiction of the
High Court under Section 482 of the Code should be
exercised. But some attempts have been made in that
behalf in some of the decisions of this Court vide State of
Haryana v. Bhajan Lal , Janata Dal v. H.S. Chowdhary , Rupan Deol Bajaj v. Kanwar Pal Singh Gill and Indian
Oil Corpn.v. NEPC India Ltd . 16. In the landmark case of State of Haryana v. Bhajan
Lal this Court considered in detail the provisions of
Section 482 and the power of the High Court to quash
criminal proceedings or FIR. This Court summarised the
legal position by laying down the following guidelines to
be followed by the High Courts in exercise of their
inherent powers to quash a criminal complaint: (SCC pp.
378-79, para 102)
 "(1) Where the allegations made in the first
 information report or the complaint, even if they
 are taken at their face value and accepted in their
 entirety do not prima facie constitute any offence
 or make out a case against the accused. (2) Where the allegations in the first information
 report and other materials, if any, accompanying
 the FIR do not disclose a cognizable offence,
 justifying an investigation by police officers under
 Section 156(1) of the Code except under an order
 of a Magistrate within the purview of Section
 155(2) of the Code. (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations made in
 the FIR or complaint and the evidence collected in
 support of the same do not disclose the
 commission of any offence and make out a case
 against the accused. (4) Where, the allegations in the FIR do not
 constitute a cognizable offence but constitute only 36 a non-cognizable offence, no investigation is
 permitted by a police officer without an order of a
 Magistrate as contemplated under Section 155(2)
 of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or
 complaint are so absurd and inherently improbable
 on the basis of which no prudent person can ever
 reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient
 ground for proceeding against the accused.
 (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in
 any of the provisions of the Code or the Act
 concerned (under which a criminal proceeding is
 instituted) to the institution and continuance of the
 proceedings and/or where there is a specific
 provision in the Code or the Act concerned,
 providing efficacious redress for the grievance of
 the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly
 attended with mala fide and/or where the
 proceeding is maliciously instituted with an
 ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the
 accused and with a view to spite him due to private
 and personal grudge." 17.InIndian Oil Corpn.v. NEPC India Ltd. a petition
under Section 482 was filed to quash two criminal
complaints. The High Court by a common judgment
allowed the petition and quashed both the complaints.
The order was challenged in appeal to this Court. While
deciding the appeal, this Court laid down the following
principles: (SCC p. 748, para 12) 1. The High Courts should not exercise their
 inherent powers to repress a legitimate
 prosecution. The power to quash criminal
 complaints should be used sparingly and with
 abundant caution. 2. The criminal complaint is not required to
 verbatim reproduce the legal ingredients of the
 alleged offence. If the necessary factual foundation
 is laid in the criminal complaint, merely on the
 ground that a few ingredients have not been stated
 in detail, the criminal proceedings should not be
 quashed. Quashing of the complaint is warranted
 only where the complaint is bereft of even the
 basic facts which are absolutely necessary for
 making out the alleged offence. 3. It was held that a given set of facts may make
 out: (a) purely a civil wrong; or (b) purely a
 criminal offence; or (c) a civil wrong as also a 37 criminal offence. A commercial transaction or a
 contractual dispute, apart from furnishing a cause
 of action for seeking remedy in civil law, may also
 involve a criminal offence. 18. In State of Orissa v. Saroj Kumar Sahoo it has been
held that probabilities of the prosecution version cannot
be analysed at this stage. Likewise, the allegations of
mala fides of the informant are of secondary importance.
The relevant passage reads thus: (SCC p. 550, para 11)
 "11. ... It would not be proper for the High Court
 to analyse the case of the complainant in the light
 of all probabilities in order to determine whether a
 conviction would be sustainable and on such
 premises arrive at a conclusion that the
 proceedings are to be quashed. It would be
 erroneous to assess the material before it and
 conclude that the complaint cannot be proceeded
 with." 19. In Madhavrao Jiwajirao Scindia v. Sambhajirao
Chandrojirao Angre this Court held as under: (SCC p.
695, para 7)
 "7. The legal position is well settled that when a
 prosecution at the initial stage is asked to be
 quashed, the test to be applied by the court is as to
 whether the uncontroverted allegations as made
 prima facie establish the offence. It is also for the
 court to take into consideration any special
 features which appear in a particular case to
 consider whether it is expedient and in the interest
 of justice to permit a prosecution to continue. This
 is so on the basis that the court cannot be utilised
 for any oblique purpose and where in the opinion
 of the court chances of an ultimate conviction is
 bleak and, therefore, no useful purpose is likely to
 be served by allowing a criminal prosecution to
 continue, the court may while taking into
 consideration the special facts of a case also quash
 the proceeding even though it may be at a
 preliminary stage." 20. This Court, while reconsidering the judgment in
Madhavrao Jiwajirao Scindia, has consistently observed
that where matters are also of civil nature i.e.
matrimonial, family disputes, etc., the Court may
consider "special facts", "special features" and quash the
criminal proceedings to encourage genuine settlement of
disputes between the parties. 21. The said judgment in Madhavrao case was
reconsidered and explained by this Court in State of 38 Bihar v. P.P. Sharma which reads as under: (SCC p. 271,
para 70)
 "70. Madhavrao Jiwajirao Scindia v. Sambhajirao
 Chandrojirao Angre also does not help the
 respondents. In that case the allegations constituted
 civil wrong as the trustees created tenancy of trust
 property to favour the third party. A private
 complaint was laid for the offence under Section
 467 read with Section 34 and Section 120-B IPC
 which the High Court refused to quash under
 Section 482. This Court allowed the appeal and
 quashed the proceedings on the ground that even
 on its own contentions in the complaint, it would
 be a case of breach of trust or a civil wrong but no
 ingredients of criminal offence were made out. On
 those facts and also due to the relation of the
 settler, the mother, the appellant and his wife, as
 the son and daughter-in-law, this Court interfered
 and allowed the appeal. ... Therefore, the ratio
 therein is of no assistance to the facts in this case.
 It cannot be considered that this Court laid down
 as a proposition of law that in every case the court
 would examine at the preliminary stage whether
 there would be ultimate chances of conviction on
 the basis of allegation and exercise of the power
 under Section 482 or Article 226 to quash the
 proceedings or the charge-sheet." 22. Thus, the judgment in Madhavrao Jiwajirao Scindia
does not lay down a law of universal application. Even as
per the law laid down therein, the Court cannot examine
the facts/evidence, etc. in every case to find out as to
whether there is sufficient material on the basis of which
the case would end in conviction. The ratio of
Madhavrao Jiwajirao Scindia is applicable in cases
where the Court finds that the dispute involved therein is
predominantly civil in nature and that the parties should
be given a chance to reach a compromise e.g.
matrimonial, property and family disputes, etc. etc. The
superior courts have been given inherent powers to
prevent the abuse of the process of court; where the
Court finds that the ends of justice may be met by
quashing the proceedings, it may quash the proceedings,
as the end of achieving justice is higher than the end of
merely following the law. It is not necessary for the Court
to hold a full-fledged inquiry or to appreciate the
evidence, collected by the investigating agency to find
out whether the case would end in conviction or
acquittal. The Supreme Court in the case of M. Srikanth v. State of

Telangana , reported in (2019) 10 SCC 373 has held as under : The Supreme Court in the case of M.N. Ojha v. Alok Kumar

Srivastav reported in (2009) 9 SCC 682 has held as under : (See Kurukshetra University v. State of Haryana ,
 SCC p. 451, para 2.) The Supreme Court in the case of CBI v. Arvind Khanna reported in (2019) 10 SCC 686has held as under : Thus, it is clear that although this Court cannot make a roving

enquiry at this stage, but if the uncontroverted allegations donot make

out any offence, then this Court can quash the F.I.R. 30. The next question for consideration is that whether this Court

 while exercising power under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. can consider the

 documents put forward by the petitioner or not? 31. The Supreme Court in the case of State of Orissa Vs.

 Debendra Nath Padhi , reported in (2003) 2 SC 711 has held as

 under : There is no requirement in law that the court at that stage
 should either give an opportunity to the accused to
 produce evidence in defence or consider such evidence
 the defence may produce at that stage. 32. The Supreme Court in the case of Prashant Bharti Vs. State

(NCT of Delhi ) reported in (2013) 9 SCC 293 has held as under : reaching consequences, inasmuch as it would
 negate the prosecution's/complainant's case
 without allowing the prosecution/complainant to
 lead evidence. Such a determination must always
 be rendered with caution, care and circumspection.
 To invoke its inherent jurisdiction under Section
 482 CrPC the High Court has to be fully satisfied
 that the material produced by the accused is such 42 that would lead to the conclusion that his/their
defence is based on sound, reasonable, and
indubitable facts; the material produced is such as
would rule out and displace the assertions
contained in the charges levelled against the
accused; and the material produced is such as
would clearly reject and overrule the veracity of
the allegations contained in the accusations
levelled by the prosecution/complainant. It should
be sufficient to rule out, reject and discard the
accusations levelled by the
prosecution/complainant, without the necessity of
recording any evidence. For this the material relied
upon by the defence should not have been refuted,
or alternatively, cannot be justifiably refuted, being
material of sterling and impeccable quality. The
material relied upon by the accused should be such
as would persuade a reasonable person to dismiss
and condemn the actual basis of the accusations as
false. In such a situation, the judicial conscience of
the High Court would persuade it to exercise its
power under Section 482 CrPC to quash such
criminal proceedings, for that would prevent abuse
of process of the court, and secure the ends of
justice. 30. Based on the factors canvassed in the
foregoing paragraphs, we would delineate the
following steps to determine the veracity of a
prayer for quashing raised by an accused by
invoking the power vested in the High Court under Section 482 CrPC: 2016. Thus, it was pleaded that by no stretch of imagination, it can be

said that the petitioner is guilty of any criminal act. 35. Further, it has been pleaded in the rejoinder that so far as the

question of non-maintenance of Datana Air Strip by the Aviation

Academy is concerned, the proposal to upgrade the Datana Air Strip

was given on 1-2-2013 and the work order for upgradation was issued

in favor of Himmat Singh on 28-1-2014 and was completed on 15-7-

2014, whereas the petitioner was posted as Collector, Ujjain on 07-8-

2014, therefore, the petitioner cannot be made responsible for the

things which had already taken place prior to his posting. 36. This petition has been filed by the petitioner seeking quashment

of F.I.R. registered against him, therefore, in the considered opinion of

this Court, only the investigating agency was the necessary party. However, for the reasons best known to the petitioner, he also

impleaded Department of Aviation as well as Department of General

Administration, as respondents no. 2 and 3. The Counsel for the

respondent no. 3 also expressed that in the present case, it is a dispute

between the petitioner and the respondent no.1. Be that as it may. 37. The agreement which was executed between the State Govt and

M/s Yash Air Ltd has already been reproduced earlier. It is the case of

the petitioner, that Collector was not a signatory to the agreement. However, the conditions in the agreement were incorporated in the

light of the sanction order dated 18-8-2006, issued by the Aviation

Department, State of Madhya Pradesh. Further, the recital of the

agreement clearly says, that the agreement was executed between M/s

Yash Air Ltd and the State Govt. Merely because the agreement was

signed by Director, Aviation, on behalf of the State Govt., it would not

mean, that it was an agreement between the Director, Aviation and

M/s Yash Air Ltd. Further, all the conditions which were approved by

the State Govt. in its order dated 18-8-2006, were incorporated and

being the functionary of the State, the Collector, cannot say that since,

he was not a signatory to the agreement, therefore, he was not under

obligation to enforce the conditions of the agreement. Further, it is

clear from the agreement dated 31-8-2006, a copy of the said

agreement was also endorsed to the Collector, Ujjain. Clause 23 of the order dated 18-8-2006 reads as under : Further, the fact regarding non-payment of Night Parking Charges has

been put forward by the respondent no. 2 itself, therefore, the

petitioner cannot claim that although there are material against him to

show that he did not make any attempt to recover the Night Parking

Charges, but since, this allegation is not mentioned in the F.I.R.,

therefore, no investigation can be done in this respect. 38. So far as the question of non-recovery of maintenance amount

is concerned, it is clear that the Aviation Academy was using the

Airstrip extensively and didnot care to maintain the same inspite of

the clear stipulation in the agreement. From the averments made in

W.P. 7411/2016 (Indore Bench), it is clear that the Aviation Academy

was using the airstrip till 2016 and continued to use the same after the

writ petition was allowed. Therefore, it is incorrect on the part of the

enquiry officer to say that the airstrip became non-operational after

2013. Further, it is clear from the Panchnama dated 27-3-2019, as 49 many as 11 aircrafts belonging to the Aviation Academy were found

parked in the taxi bay. Thus, it is clear that the airstrip was being used

by the Aviation Academy regularly and extensively even after the year

2013. 39. So far as the submission made by the Counsel for the Petitioner

that the earnest money which was already lying with the State Govt. was got encashed/adjusted on 24-12-2019 is concerned, it is clear that

even after the agreement had lapsed in the year 2016, the Aviation

Academy was extensively using the air strip and not a single penny

was paid towards the maintenance charges, license fee etc. and only

after letter dated 27-5-2019 was issued, the licensee fee was deposited

on 15-6-2019. Thus, it is clear that the Aviation Academy was using

the Datana Airstrip without fulfilling the conditions as mentioned in

the agreement. Thus, it is a matter of investigation, which cannot be

throttled at the initial stage. In a given set of facts, subsequent deposit

of outstanding amount may not be sufficient to quash the criminal

proceedings. The Supreme Court in the case of State of Maharashtra Vs.

Vikram Anantrai Doshi , reported in (2014) 15 SCC 29 has held as

under : Proceeding further the Court opined as follows: (SCC p.
692, para 15)
 "15. ... The offences when committed in relation
 with banking activities including offences under Sections 420 / 471 IPC have harmful effect on the
 public and threaten the well being of the society.
 These offences fall under the category of offences
 involving moral turpitude committed by public
 servants while working in that capacity. Prima
 facie, one may state that the bank is the victim in
 such cases but, in fact, the society in general,
 including customers of the bank is the sufferer. In
 the present case, there was neither an allegation
 regarding any abuse of process of any court nor
 anything on record to suggest that the offenders
 were entitled to secure the order in the ends of
 justice." 26. We are in respectful agreement with the aforesaid
view. Be it stated, that availing of money from a
nationalised bank in the manner, as alleged by the
investigating agency, vividly exposits fiscal impurity and,
in a way, financial fraud. The modus operandi as narrated
in the charge-sheet cannot be put in the compartment of
an individual or personal wrong. It is a social wrong and
it has immense societal impact. It is an accepted principle
of handling of finance that whenever there is
manipulation and cleverly conceived contrivance to avail
of these kinds of benefits it cannot be regarded as a case
having overwhelmingly and predominatingly civil
character. The ultimate victim is the collective. It creates
a hazard in the financial interest of the society. The
gravity of the offence creates a dent in the economic
spine of the nation. The cleverness which has been
skilfully contrived, if the allegations are true, has a
serious consequence. A crime of this nature, in our view,
would definitely fall in the category of offences which
travel far ahead of personal or private wrong. It has the
potentiality to usher in economic crisis. Its implications
have its own seriousness, for it creates a concavity in the
solemnity that is expected in financial transactions. It is
not such a case where one can pay the amount and obtain
a "no dues certificate" and enjoy the benefit of quashing
of the criminal proceeding on the hypostasis that nothing
more remains to be done. The collective interest of which
the Court is the guardian cannot be a silent or a mute
spectator to allow the proceedings to be withdrawn, or
for that matter yield to the ingenuous dexterity of the
accused persons to invoke the jurisdiction under Article 51 226 of the Constitution or under Section 482 of the Code
 and quash the proceeding. It is not legally permissible.
 The Court is expected to be on guard to these kinds of
 adroit moves. The High Court, we humbly remind,
 should have dealt with the matter keeping in mind that in
 these kinds of litigations the accused when perceives a
 tiny gleam of success, readily invokes the inherent
 jurisdiction for quashing of the criminal proceeding. The
 Court's principal duty, at that juncture, should be to scan
 the entire facts to find out the thrust of allegations and the
 crux of the settlement. It is the experience of the Judge
 that comes to his aid and the said experience should be
 used with care, caution, circumspection and courageous
 prudence. As we find in the case at hand the learned
 Single Judge has not taken pains to scrutinise the entire
 conspectus of facts in proper perspective and quashed the
 criminal proceeding. The said quashment neither helps to
 secure the ends of justice nor does it prevent the abuse of
 the process of the court nor can it be also said that as
 there is a settlement no evidence will come on record and
 there will be remote chance of conviction. Such a finding
 in our view would be difficult to record. Be that as it
 may, the fact remains that the social interest would be on
 peril and the prosecuting agency, in these circumstances,
 cannot be treated as an alien to the whole case. Ergo, we
 have no other option but to hold that the order of the
 High Court is wholly indefensible. The Supreme Court in the case of CBI Vs. Jagjit Singh ,

reported in (2013) 10 SCC 686 has held as under : The offences when committed in relation with banking
 activities including offences under Sections 420 / 471 IPC 52 have harmful effect on the public and threaten the well-
 being of the society. These offences fall under the
 category of offences involving moral turpitude
 committed by public servants while working in that
 capacity. Prima facie, one may state that the bank is the
 victim in such cases but, in fact, the society in general,
 including customers of the bank is the sufferer. In the
 present case, there was neither an allegation regarding
 any abuse of process of any court nor anything on record
 to suggest that the offenders were entitled to secure the
 order in the ends of justice. 16. In the instant case, the High Court has not considered
 the above factors while passing the impugned order.
 Hence, we are of the opinion that the High Court erred in
 addressing the issue in right perspective. The Supreme Court in the case of State of T.N. Vs. R.

Vasantjhi Stanley reported in (2016) 1 SCC 376 has held as under : That apart, submits Mr Tankha, continuation of the
 proceeding would unnecessarily load the criminal justice
 dispensation system as there is likelihood of an order of
 acquittal at the end of the trial. 9. To appreciate the submissions advanced at the Bar, we
 may straightaway refer to the authority in State of
 Maharashtra v. Vikram Anantrai Doshi . In the said case,
 the accused was charged for the offences punishable
 under Sections 120-B , 406 , 420 , 467 , 468 and 471 IPC.
 The allegation in the said case was that Accused 1 had
 obtained letters of credit from State Bank of India and
 Dena Bank in favour of fictitious companies formed by
 the accused and used the said letters of credit to siphon
 off the funds from the banks. During the pendency of the
 case, the accused settled the dispute with the Bank by 53 paying the amount and the Bank in turn had issued no-
dues certificate. The Court referred to case in CBI v. A.
Ravishankar Prasad , wherein the pronouncements in CBI v. Duncans Agro Industries Ltd. and Nikhil
Merchant were distinguished. It is necessary to note that
the Court in Ravishankar Prasad case referred to Inder
Mohan Goswami v. State of Uttaranchal and stated thus: While applying the ratio of Goswami case12, how
 can any court in its legitimate exercise of power
 under Section 482 CrPC quash the proceedings
 against accused A. Ravishankar Prasad and A.
 Manohar Prasad in the face of the aforesaid
 allegations? In the instant case, wrong application
 of the ratio of the said judgment has led to grave
 miscarriage of justice. 39. Careful analysis of all these judgments clearly
 reveals that the exercise of inherent powers would
 entirely depend on the facts and circumstances of
 each case. The object of incorporating inherent
 powers in the Code is to prevent abuse of the
 process of the court or to secure ends of justice. 40. Both English and the Indian courts have
 consistently taken the view that the inherent
 powers can be exercised in those exceptional cases
 where the allegations made in the first information
 report or the complaint, even if are taken on their
 face value and accepted in their entirety do not 54 prima facie constitute any offence or make out a
 case against the accused. When we apply the
 settled legal position to the facts of this case it is
 not possible to conclude that the complaint and the
 charge-sheet prima facie do not constitute any
 offence against the respondents." Being of this view, the Court in A. Ravishankar
 Prasad allowed the appeal preferred by CBI. 10. Apart from above, in Vikram Anantrai Doshi
 the Court referred to Gian Singh v. State of
 Punjab , with regard to the power of the High Court
 as regards the quashing of the criminal
 proceedings on the basis of a compromise. This
 Court also referred to Narinder Singh v. State of
 Punjab , Dimpey Gujral v. UT, Chandigarh and
 State of Rajasthan v. Shambhu Kewat and
 thereafter dwelt upon the ratio in CBI v. Narendra
 Lal Jain wherein the charges were framed under
 Section 120-B read with Section 420 IPC. A
 passage from the said judgment was reproduced
 which is to the following effect: ( Vikram Anantrai
 Doshi case, SCC p. 40, para 22)
 "22. ... '14. ... The offences are certainly more
 serious; they are not private in nature. The charge
 of conspiracy is to commit offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act . The accused has
 also been charged for commission of the
 substantive offence under Section 471 IPC.
 Though the amounts due have been paid the same
 is under a private settlement between the parties
 unlike in Nikhil Merchant and Narendra Lal Jain
 where the compromise was a part of the decree of
 the Court. There is no acknowledgment on the part
 of the Bank of the exoneration of the criminal
 liability of the appellant-accused unlike the terms
 of compromise decree in the aforesaid two cases.
 In the totality of the facts stated above, if the High
 Court has taken the view that the exclusion spelt
 out in Gian Singh (para 61) applies to the present
 case and on that basis had come to the conclusion
 that the power under Section 482 CrPC should not
 be exercised to quash the criminal case against the
 accused, we cannot find any justification to
 interfere with the said decision .'*" 12. Recently, in CBI v. Maninder Singh , the allegation
against the accused was that bill of lading presented by
the proprietors of the accused firms were found forged
and cases were registered under Section 120-B IPC read
with Section 420 IPC and Section 5(2) read with Section
5(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 and
further substantive offences under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 and 471 IPC. The accused person arrived at a settlement
with the Bank and thereafter moved the High Court under Section 482 CrPC for quashing of the FIR. The High
Court placed reliance on the decision in Nikhil Merchant
and allowed the petition and directed for quashing of the
criminal proceedings. This Court placed reliance on
Vikram Anantrai Doshi and came to hold as follows: but the offence with which we are concerned was 57 well planned and was committed with a deliberate
 design with an eye on personal profit regardless of
 consequence to the society at large. To quash the
 proceeding merely on the ground that the accused
 has settled the amount with the bank would be a
 misplaced sympathy." The Supreme Court in the case of CBI Vs. Maninder Singh reported in (2016) 1 SCC (Cri) 292 has held as under : It is for the petitioner to prove in the Trial that he had acted

with due care and attention. However, in the light of the fact that the

copy of the agreement was also endorsed to the Collector, Ujjain, as

well as he is a functionary of the State, it is difficult to hold that the

petitioner had acted in "good faith" or bonafidely by claiming that he

was not aware of the agreement between the State of M.P. and M/s 59 Yash Air Ltd. Thus, this contention of the petitioner is hereby

rejected. 41. It is next contended by the Counsel for the Petitioner, that in

case of non-deposit of dues, the remedy is available to the State Govt. to recover the amount, therefore, the criminal prosecution is

unwarranted and should not be launched. 42. The submission made by the Counsel for the petitioner is

misconceived and is liable to be rejected. The Supreme Court in the

case of Amit Kapoor (Supra) has held as under : The Supreme Court in the case of Vijayander Kumar Vs.

State of Rajasthan reported in (2014) 3SCC 389 has held as under : Rugmini Ram Raghav Spinners (P) Ltd. The Supreme Court in the case of V.Ravi Kumar Vs. State reported in(2019) 14 SCC 568 has held as under : 43. So far as the contention of the petitioner, that he is a decorated

officer is concerned, it is suffice to mention that the Counsel for the

petitioner could not point out any provision of law, under which he

can seek any exemption from criminal prosecution only on the ground

that he is a decorated officer. 44. So far as the submission of the Counsel for the petitioner, that

if it was the duty of the petitioner to recover the maintenance amount

of Rs. 292.39 lacs , then all his successor Collectors are also equally

guilty because the maintenance amount incurred by the State has not

been recovered so far, is concerned, it is suffice to hold that merely

because some of the persons have not been arrayed as an accused in 63 the F.I.R., would not make the petitioner entitled to seek quashment of

the F.I.R. Not only the investigating agency can implicate other

persons also as an accused, but even the Trial Court can exercise its

power under Section 190,193 and 319 of Cr.P.C. However, the F.I.R. cannot be quashed on the ground that some of the persons have not

been implicated as an accused. 45. So far as the submission made by the Counsel for the petitioner,

that since, the name of the petitioner is not mentioned in the complaint

lodged by Bharat Bamne and Piyush Jain, therefore, he should not

have been impleaded as an accused is concerned, it is suffice to say

that FIR or complaint is not an encyclopedia and the investigation

cannot be confined to the allegations made in the complaint/FIR only. If the facts discovered during enquiry/investigation warrants

implication of other persons also as an accused, then there is no bar. Further in the present case, the Petitioner himself has impleaded

Aviation Department and Department of General Administration as

respondent no.2 and 3 respectively. The respondent no. 2 has filed its

Return and Additional Return and has also filed a copy of the letter

dated 1-2-2020 which was written to the Inspector, S.P.E. (Subsequent

to the registration of F.I.R.), from which it is clear that the Aviation

Academy has not deposited the Night Parking Charges. Thus, when

the State itself has come forward with a case that Night Parking

Charges were never deposited by the Aviation Academy and as per the

agreement, it was the duty of the Collector, Ujjain to ensure 64 the recovery of Night Parking Charges, then the Petitioner cannot

claim that there is no prima facie material against him. Further, it is

the stand of the Respondent no.1 that if it is presumed that on average

basis, daily 10 aircrafts were parked during night, then a total loss of

Rs. 95 lacs has been caused to the State. Thus, the non-recovery of

Night Parking Charges is an allegation which requires thorough

investigation and the F.I.R. cannot be quashed. 46. So far as the defence of absence of mens rea on the part of the

petitioner is concerned, it is a matter of trial. While exercising the

limited scope of powers under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. or under Article

226/227 of the Constitution of India, this Court cannot go into the

defence and in the light of the judgment passed by the Supreme Court

in the case of Lalita Kumari (Supra), if the complaint discloses the

commission of cognizable offence, then the FIR has to be registered. Further in the previous paragraphs, this Court has already held that it

is for the petitioner to prove in trial that he had acted with due care

and attention as required under Section 52 of Indian Penal Code. 47. So far as the question of preliminary enquiry is concerned, it is

merely an enquiry to verify the correctness of the allegations. This

Court has already considered the allegations on the basis of the

documents filed by the respondent no. 2, as well as the stand taken by

the respondent no.1. As already pointed out, FIR is not an

encyclopedia and therefore, if an offence is made out from the

allegations as well as from the material available on record, then, the 65 FIR cannot be quashed and in the present case, it is the case of the

respondent no.2 itself, that no Night Parking Charges were deposited. Thus, in view of specific stand taken by the respondent no.2 with

regard to non-deposit of Night Parking Charges, as well as other

allegations including that of non-recovery of maintenance amount, the

FIR cannot be quashed 48. In the present case, the F.I.R. has been lodged on the basis of

Preliminary Enquiry Report given by the Inspector, S.P.E. (Lokayukt). It is clear from the documents filed by the respondent no.2 itself, that

Night Parking Charges were not deposited by the Aviation Academy,

therefore, it is for the Lokayukt or D.G.P. (Lokayukt) to find out as to

whether this material omission in the preliminary enquiry report on

the part of the Enquiry Officer was intentional or bonafide? 49. Accordingly, this Court is of the considered opinion, that since,

the FIR lodged against the petitioner discloses commission of

cognizable offence, therefore, it cannot be quashed. 50. This Court would have restrained itself from giving any

observations on facts, but since, the matter was argued at length by the

Counsel for the petitioner pleading interalia that the FIR doesnot

disclose commission of cognizable offence, therefore, for the limited

purpose of appreciating the submissions of the parties, the facts have

been discussed. However, it is clarified that any observation made in 66 this order, is limited for the purpose of considering as to whether the

allegations made against the petitioner discloses the commission of

cognizable offence or not. 51. In the present case, the complaints were made in the year 2015

and the FIR has been lodged only in the year 2019 because the

preliminary enquiry remained pending for more than 4 long years. Corruption is a menace to the civilized society and if the enquiries are

kept pending for no good reasons, then it would certainly frustrate the

objects of Anti Corruption Laws. Therefore, it is directed that the

respondent no.1 shall conclude the investigation as early as possible

preferrably within a period of 9 months from today and the

investigation shall not be kept pending for no reason. 52. Ex consequenti, the petition filed under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India for quashing the F.I.R dated 24-11-2019, is

hereby dismissed. 53. Accordingly, I concur with the view taken by my esteemed

brother Hon'ble Shri Justice Sanjay Yadav and respectfully differ with

the view taken by Hon'ble Shri Justice B.K. Shrivastava. (G.S.Ahluwalia)
 Judge Digitally signed by AMIT JAIN Date: 2020.09.21 13:43:00 +05'30'