% 23.03.2021 1. This application under Section 438 Cr.P.C. is for grant of anticipatory
bail in the event of arrest of the petitioner in FIR No.3/2021 dated
03.01.2021 registered in Police Station Baba Haridas Nagar for offences
punishable under Section 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 34 IPC. 2. The facts which emerge are that FIR was registered on the complaint
of the Secretary, Radha Swami Satsang Trust. It is stated in the FIR that the
Trust had purchased a piece of agricultural land measuring 10 Bighas 11
Biswas situated in the revenue estate of Village Dichaun Kalan, Tehsil
Najafgarh, New Delhi and a Ashram had been constructed on the said
property. Since the activities of the Trust were increasing, it was proposed Bail Appln.779/2021 Page 1 of 5 to sell the property to a prospective purchaser. For this purpose, one Mr.
Om Prakash S/o Shri Tara Chand was authorised to sell the land. It is stated
in the FIR that the Trust had come to know that the accused Satyakam
Sharma S/o Late Sh. Ram Dutt Sharma has forged a resolution of the Trust
authorising the accused to act on behalf of the Trust for sale of the aforesaid
agricultural land in the name of one Sushil Kumar S/o Bharat Singh. It is
stated in the FIR that it came to the notice of the Trust that on the basis of
the forged resolution, the petitioner in active connivance with other culprits,
namely, Ajay Kumar S/o Sh. Om Prakash, Shailendra Yadav S/o Shamsher
Bahadur and Sushil Kumar S/o Bharat Singh has sold the aforesaid land to
Sushil Kumar S/o Bharat Singh by a registered Sale Deed dated 06.11.2020.
It is stated in the FIR that the Trust never passed any kind of such resolution
authorising the petitioner to sell the land on behalf the Trust. 3. The petitioner approached the Sessions Court for anticipatory bail
which was rejected on 08.02.2021. Thereafter, the petitioner approached
this Court stating that he was not aware of the facts and he himself has been
duped and roped in to the conspiracy. Interim protection was granted by this
Court by an order dated 05.03.2021. 4. Status report has been filed by the Police. A perusal of the status
report shows that the petitioner was given a notice under Section 41A Cr.P.C. and in compliance of the notice, the petitioner had joined the
investigation on 07.03.2021. The status report reveals that the petitioner
disclosed that he is a good friend of Sushil Kumar. The said Sushil Kumar
is a devotee of Radha Swami Satsang since 1996. It is revealed that the said
Sushil Kumar had told the petitioner that he will get an authorisation from
the Radha Swami Trust in his name so that the property could be sold to Bail Appln.779/2021 Page 2 of 5 Sushil Kumar. He sold the land to Sushil Kumar in good faith as Sushil
Kumar had brought the Power of Attorney in his name. The status report
states that when the petitioner came to know through one Tushar Gupta that
Sushil Kumar committed a fraud against him, he complained to Sushil
Kumar who admitted his mistake that he has implicated the petitioner. The
petitioner has given a written complaint in Police Station Paschim Vihar on
02.12.2020 with the Police Station Paschim Vihar for pointing out the fraud
committed by Sushil Kumar. Sushil Kumar has been arrested. 5. Paras 10, 11 and 12 of the status report are reproduced below: 12. In response to the question during interrogation why
 Satyakam Sharma stated that Rajiv Kumar Lohia had link with
 him and he was a devotee of Satsang, he replied that he was
 misguided by his advocate namely CL Gupta who was referred
 to him by accused Sushil Kumar." 6. On going through the status report, this Court is of the opinion that at
this juncture, custody of the petitioner is not required. The status report does
not reveal the complicity of the petitioner in the fraud that has been
committed against the Trust. 7. In view of the above, the petitioner is granted anticipatory bail on the
petitioner furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs.25,000/- with one Bail Appln.779/2021 Page 4 of 5 surety of the like amount, that being of the family member of the petitioner,
to the satisfaction of the Investigating Officer/Arresting Officer, subject to
the conditions that the petitioner will join the investigation as and when
called for; he will give his Mobile Phone number to the IO and keep the
mobile phone operational at all times; he shall disclose his residential
address and in case of change of address, he shall inform the local Police
Station. 8. The application stands disposed of in above terms. SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J. MARCH 23, 2021
pst Bail Appln.779/2021 Page 5 of 5