S.B. Sinha, J. INTRODUCTION

 These appeals arise out of a judgment and order dated 9.6.2005 passed

by the learned Judge, Special Court, Bombay constituted under the Special

Court (Trial of Offences Relating to Transactions in Securities) Act, 1992 (for short, "the said Act") in Special Case No. 1 of 1993 whereby and

whereunder appellants herein with accused Munipally Subramanium Eshwar 2 Chandra (Accused No. 6), Sunil Samtani (Accused No. 7) and Pankaj

Brijlal Shah (Accused No. 9) were convicted for commission of offences

punishable under Sections 409 and 120B amongst others and sentenced as

under: Before proceeding further, we may place on record that Harshad

Shantilal Mehta (Original Accused No. 3) expired during the pendency of

the criminal proceedings and the case against him, thus, abated. Accused

Nos. 1, 2 and 8 who are appellants in Criminal Appeal Nos. 945, 965 and

922 of 2005 respectively were the Chairman-cum-Managing Director, the

General Manager and the Divisional Manager of UCO Bank respectively. Whereas Accused No. 1 and 2 have been found guilty of committing

both Criminal Breach of Trust as well as Criminal Conspiracy, Accused No

8, being a Scale IV Bank employee was found guilty only for commission of

the offence of criminal conspiracy. Accused Nos. 4 and 5 (hereinafter

referred to as, "the private accused") were found guilty of commission of

offences only under Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code being related to

and otherwise connected with the activities of the original accused No. 3.

Accused Nos. 6, 7 and 9 on whom only a punishment of fine was imposed

accepted the judgment and have not preferred any appeal before this Court. 4 BACKGROUND FACTS

 The prosecution case centers around transactions, of discounting and

rediscounting of Bills of Exchange and two Pay Orders issued by the State

Bank of Patiala and Syndicate Bank, in favour of the UCO Bank. This was

said to be at the instance of the private accused. Harshad Mehta was a dealer in the money and securities market. The

Reserve Bank of India had found that Harshad Mehta along with his other

associates had diverted a huge amount of public fund belonging to Public

Sector Banks and Financial Institutions for short term investment in the

securities market, and thus defrauded the banks of a huge amount. An Inquiry Committee was thereafter constituted under the

Chairmanship of Shri Janakiraman. The Committee submitted its report;

pursuant to and in furtherance whereof the said Act was enacted providing

inter alia for the constitution of a Special Court for trial of the criminal

offences, as also civil disputes arising therefrom during the period between

1.4.1991 and 6.6.1992. The said Act provides for the appointment of a

Custodian for attaching the properties of notified parties to prevent diversion

of such properties. The properties which were attached included shares of 5 various companies as well as moveable and immoveable properties of the

private parties herein. Accused No. 1 being Chairman-cum-Managing Director of the UCO

Bank used to sit in the Head Office of the Bank situated at Calcutta. The

Bank has an office and a guest house at Bombay as well. On or about 14th March 1992, Accused No. 1 visited Harshad Mehta.

Thereafter he came back to his office and called a meeting in which, inter

alia, four Prosecution Witnesses being Shri S.V. Prabhu, Assistant General

Manager (PW 44), Shri Bhaskar Roy Choudhary, Dy. General Manager

(PW-45), Shri Ramanathan, Divisional Manager (Accused No. 8) and Shri

R.L. Joshi, Public Relations Officer (PW 7) participated. Accused No. 1 allegedly informed others that he had met Harshad

Mehta who had suggested that it would be in the interest of the Bank to

undertake the business of discounting and rediscounting of Bills of

Exchange. The officers present were assured by him that the business could

be transacted without involving the banks' funds. He furthermore insisted

that the said business be undertaken through the Nariman Point Branch of

the Bank though such transactions were generally not undertaken therefrom. 6 In course of the meeting, Accused No. 1 contacted Accused No. 2 R.

Venkatkrishnan at Calcutta and informed him about the transactions which

had to be carried out. On the other officers of the Bank objecting thereto,

Accused No. 1 assured them that the business of discounting and

rediscounting of Bills of Exchange would be personally looked after by

Harshad Mehta himself. On the same day, that is, on 14.3.1992, a resolution was passed by

M/s Growmore Research and Asset Management Ltd. (for short,

"Growmore") to open an account in UCO Bank, Nariman Point so as to

enable it to avail Bill Discounting facility provided by UCO Bank limited to

Rs.50 crores. Harshad Mehta (the Original Accused No. 3), Ashwin Mehta

(Accused No. 4) and/or Sudhir Mehta (Accused No. 5) had been authorized

by the said resolution to execute necessary documents on behalf of the

Company. A similar resolution was also passed by M/s Mazda Industries &

Leasing Ltd. (for short, "Mazda") (Accused No. 7), which is a public limited

company for the purpose of opening up of a current account in UCO Bank,

so that it too could avail the Bill discounting facilities from the Bank . Two or three days thereafter, Sunil Samtani, the Vice President of

Mazda and Pankaj Shah, the Vice President of Growmore (Accused No. 9) 7 met Shri Prabhu (PW 44) with Ramanathan (Accused No. 8). They

procured two forms for opening current accounts with the Bank. They were

introduced by Accused No. 8, who were also invited for attending the

Annual General Meeting of Mazda as also a cocktail party which was to be

held on 18.3.1992 at Hotel Oberoi. The party was attended by Ramanathan (Accused No. 8), Prabhu (PW 44), Roy Choudhary (PW 45), Pankaj Brijlal Shah (Accused No. 9) and

Harshad Mehta. On 24.3.1992, at about 2.30 P.M., Sunil Samtani (Accused No. 7) and

Pankaj Shah (Accused No. 9) came to the Nariman Point Branch of the UCO

Bank. They had brought with them two banker's cheques; one cheque was

from Syndicate Bank dated 24.3.1992 for a sum of Rs.24,63,01,370/- drawn

in favour of UCO Bank (Exh. 24); and the other from State Bank of Patiala

dated 24.3.1992 for a sum of Rs.25,00,53,636/-. They had also brought with them the application forms for opening

Current Accounts in the Bank. The same were handed over to Prabhu (PW 44). The two cheques that they had brought were handed over to Ranjit

Mukherjee (PW 1) for clearance. Two Bills of Exchange for a sum of Rs.14,41,44,000/- and

Rs.35,95,24,000/- drawn by J.H. Mehta which were accepted by Ashwin

Mehta (Accused No. 4) on behalf of Growmore (Exhibit 154) and by Sunil

Samtani (Accused No. 7) on behalf of Mazda respectively were brought by

Accused Nos. 7 and 9. Both the Bills of Exchange were executed by Sudhir

Mehta (Accused No. 5), authorized signatory of M/s J.H. Mehta. It is not in

dispute that original contract note with respect to the underlying security

transaction had not been produced and only a photocopy thereof had been

produced. Letters were also issued by Mazda and Growmore to the effect that

the said amount would be repaid by them on or before 24.4.1992. They had

asked the Bank in writing to issue cheques in the name of ANZ Grindlays

Bank. For the said two cheques receipts were obtained from Syndicate Bank

and State Bank of Patiala. The two usance promissory notes were handed

over to Accused No. 7 and Accused No. 9. Indisputably, J.H. Mehta, the

drawer of the Bills of Exchange did not have any account in his name. The 9 acceptors, namely, Mazda and Growmore also did not have any account at

the said branch. Two draft promissory notes were handed over to Mr.Prabhu (PW 44)

by Accused Nos. 7 and 9; one issued in favour of Syndicate Bank and the

other in favour of State Bank of Patiala to be executed by UCO Bank in

relation to the said cheques. Those usance promissory notes were signed by

Mr. Prabhu (PW 44) and Ranjit Mukherjee (PW 1), pursuant whereto the

Bank issued two pay orders on the same day in favour of ANZ Grindlays

Bank for a sum of Rs.25,27,00,000/- and Rs. 14,14,00,000/-. An account in the name of M/s J.H. Mehta was opened on the same

day; the amount of Bill of Exchange was credited into that account; three

accounts were opened in the Bank for carrying on transactions in the name

of the aforementioned three entities bearing Nos. 1705, 1706 and 1708. The

Account Nos. 1705 and 1706 were introduced by Ashwin Mehta (Accused

No. 4) and Account No. 1708 was introduced by Sudhir Mehta (Accused

No. 5). Two Bills of Exchange were drawn by M/s J.H. Mehta. The same

were signed by Sudhir Mehta (Accused No. 5) as the Constituted Attorney

of Mrs. Jyoti Mehta, the proprietor of M/s J.H. Mehta. On behalf of Mazda, 10 the bill was accepted by Ashwin Mehta (Accused No. 4). The amount of

Bills of Exchange were credited to the account of M/s J.H. Mehta and

thereafter they were transferred to the account of Mazda and Growmore.

The Bills of Exchange in relation to Growmore was accepted by Ashwin

Mehta (Accused No.4). On 25.3.1992, the account of J.H. Mehta in Grindlays Bank credited

the said amount and the amount was promptly transferred to Harshad

Mehta's Account. On 26.3.1992, Prabhu (PW 44) asked Ranjit Mukherjee

(PW 1) to prepare a note for the Chairman so as to enable him to seek

approval from the Board for the transaction pursuant whereto the said note

was prepared and it was shown to accused No. 1. On the same date, PW 1

was asked by Prabhu (PW 44) to collect the Balance Sheets from Mazda and

Growmore. Whether the Balance Sheets and Annual Reports of the said two

Companies were ultimately collected or not is unknown. A proposal for

ratification of the Bill Discounting transaction was sent to the Head office on

3.4.1992. On 24.4.1992, i.e., the due date for retiring the Bills of Exchange,

the payments were not made either by the drawer or by the acceptors.

Accused No. 1 allegedly agreed to the suggestion of Harshad Mehta for 11 rolling over the same for one more month. PW 44 allegedly did not agree

thereto and insisted on prompt payment. As the funds had not been received, UCO Bank made payments to

Syndicate Bank and State Bank of Patiala out of its own funds. There being

a shortfall in the funds available with UCO Bank, the requisite call money to

meet the deficient had to be borrowed by it from the Corporation Bank and

the Oriental Bank of Commerce to the tune of Rs. 50 crores for three days.

Officers of UCO Bank thereafter visited the offices of Mazda and Growmore

for realization of the payments due. Two cheques were handed over by M/s

J.H. Mehta with a request that the same not be encashed and that the cheques

of Growmore and Mazda would be given at a later date. Mazda and

Growmore also issued two cheques. They were not sent for clearing as the

requisite funds therefor were admittedly not available in their accounts in

Grindlays Bank. The said two Bills of Exchange, for want of fund, were not

retired either by M/s J.H. Mehta or Growmore or Mazda. Subsequent thereto, a formal meeting of the Investment Committee

consisting of Accused Nos. 1 and 3 and PW 45 was held. At the instance of

Accused Nos. 1 and 3, shares of Gujarat Ambuja Cement worth Rs. 50

crores were purchased by UCO Bank. It was routed through V.B. Desai a 12 broker and an amount of commission for a sum of Rs. 9.53 lakhs was paid to

him. The amount received by J.H. Mehta from UCO Bank under the said

transaction was transferred by him to Mazda and Growmore so as to

facilitate encashment of the said cheques for retiring the Bills of Exchange.

Payment towards purchase of shares was made by UCO Bank before

delivery thereof. The amount due to the Bank was sought to be realized in

that manner. However Mr. VB. Desai, could not deliver all the shares of Gujarat

Ambuja Cement. It was agreed that in place of 3 lakhs shares of Gujarat

Ambuja Cement, 77150 shares of `CASTROL' would be delivered at the

rate of Rs.1750/- per share. Mr. Prabhu thereafter contacted accused No. 2 and informed him

about the transactions, which according to him, had to be gone through at

the Nariman Point Branch as had been directed by accused No. 1.

CHARGES

 Several charges were framed against the accused persons by the

learned Judge, Special Court on or about 9.10.1995. A Special Leave

Petition was preferred thereagainst. Although the order of the Special Court 13 dated 9.10.1995 was not interfered with, this Court recorded a statement

made by the Additional Solicitor General of India that charges No. 10 to 13

and 16 would not be pressed. We may also place on record that the

prosecution at a later stage did not press charges No.2, 4 and 6. The charges

which were, thus, framed and pressed against the accused persons were

charge Nos. 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 14 and 15 as also charge No. 12 and 13 (Exhibit - 228). As charges No. 14 and 15 related to the deceased accused No. 3-

Harshad Mehta, the same stood abated. The charges which survived were

charges No. 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 12 and 13. In the words of the learned Special Court, the said charges read as

under: EVIDENCE

 The prosecution in support of its case examined a large number of

witnesses. The defence also examined some witnesses. Ashwin Mehta

(Accused No. 4) also examined himself in defence. A large number of documents were also brought on record by the

parties. We would refer to some of them at an appropriate stage.

PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE SPECIAL COURT

 Before the special court it was alleged that the original contract note

with respect to the underlying security transaction for the discounting of

Bills had not been produced at the time of entering into the said transactions

and only a photocopy thereof was produced. It was furthermore alleged that

no security was insisted upon for discounting the Bills of Exchange and

before signing the promissory notes, the Bank did not have with it the shares

in relation to which the Bills of Exchange were drawn. The said acts of 15 omission and commission on the part of Accused Nos. 1, 2 and 8 are said to

be in violation of the UCO Bank Manual of Instructions on Bill Discounting

(Exhibit-239) as also the Circular letter dated 5.9.1988 issued by the Reserve

Bank of India (Exhibit-247). The prosecution alleged that the transaction of discounting and

rediscounting of the two Bills of Exchange was bogus and that the said

modus operandi was adopted for siphoning of the public funds wherewith

accused Nos. 1, 2 and 8 were entrusted. It was furthermore alleged that the

said Bills of Exchange were not issued by way of any bona fide commercial

transaction and were prepared only to secure financial accommodation for

the deceased Harshad Mehta and his group. The prosecution further alleged that as the deceased Harshad Mehta

was not in a position to pay the amount due to the Bank on 24.4.1992; only

with a view to facilitate the payment of amount to the Bank against the two

Bills of Exchange, accused Nos. 1 and 2 decided to purchase shares of

Gujarat Ambuja Cement and the amount of purchase price of the shares was

paid to M/s J.H. Mehta. Growmore and Mazda thereafter issued cheques in

favour of the Bank in discharge of the liability in relation to the said two 16 Bills of Exchange. The authority on the part of the accused Nos.1, 2 and 8

to enter into the said transactions without obtaining sanction from the Board

of Directors was also questioned. The defence of the accused persons had been a mere denial of the

allegations. Before proceeding further, we may notice that Bhaskar Roy

Choudhary (PW 45) and S.V. Prabhu (P.W. 44) were initially made accused

in the case. They were arrested and later on released on bail. Applications

were filed on their behalf purported to be in terms of Section 307 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, which were allowed by the learned

Special Judge by order dated 22.6.1993, inter alia, on the condition that they

would give evidence during the trial and make a full-and true disclosure of

the circumstances within their knowledge relating to the said offences.

JUDGMENT

 The learned Special Judge upon consideration of the entire materials

brought on record by the parties, in a very detailed and well considered

judgment, held: ii. The said discounting of bills was illegal as it violated the Circular

 issued by the Reserve Bank of India dated 5.9.1988 (Exhibit 247); and

 by reason thereof, a sum of Rs. 50 crores was transferred to the

 deceased accused No. 3 Harshad Mehta and/or his groups.

iii. The transactions having been carried out in violation of the

 aforementioned Circular dated 5.9.1988 issued by the Reserve Bank

 of India, the accused Nos. 1, 2 & 8 having acted contrary thereto or

 inconsistent therewith, the same constituted an offence within the

 meaning of Section 405 of the Indian Penal Code. iv. The said transactions having been carried out to benefit Harshad

 Mehta Group of Companies by the accused in conspiracy with each

 other, the prosecution has proved its case. The private accused as well

 as Accused No.8 were convicted only for commission of the offence

 of criminal conspiracy. SUBMISSIONS

 The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, inter alia,

would urge: h. Accused No. 1 and Accused No. 2 being the officers of the

Bank and having dominion over the funds thereof could not part with

the same in favour of any person without complying with the statutory

requirements. Even if the Manual of the UCO Bank and the Circular

of Reserve Bank of India were not statutory in nature, the transactions

having dishonestly been carried out, the same would satisfy the

requirements of Section 405 read with Section 24 of the Indian Penal

Code. i. By reason of such transaction wrongful loss was caused to the

Bank and wrongful gain was made by the Harshad Mehta group.

Money of a Public Sector Bank was diverted to share/securities

market transactions in violation of law and the prosecution therefore

must be held to have proved the charges made against the accused. 26 The two banker's cheque issued by the Syndicate Bank and State

 Bank of Patiala, although were not per se securities but as by reason

 thereof liability to pay interest had been cast on UCO Bank.

 j. Accused No. 6 being Chief Executive of Mazda, Accused No. 7

 being Vice President of Mazda and Accused No. 9 being Vice

 President of Growmore, they were also party to the conspiracy for

 commission of the offence of criminal breach of trust.

JURISDICTION OF THE SPECIAL COURT

 The history as regards constitution of the Special Courts has been

noticed by us heretobefore. Its jurisdiction, inter alia, is confined to trial of

offence relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected

therewith or incidental thereto committed during the period between

1.4.1991 and 6.6.1992. The alleged offence had been committed admittedly

during the said period. Section 2(c) of the 1992 Act defines "securities" to mean :- Sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the 1992 Act provides for appointment

and functions of custodian. Sub-section (2) of Section 3 enables the

custodian, on being satisfied on information being received that any person

had been involved in any offence relating to transaction in securities after

the 1st day of April, 1991 and on and before the 6th June, 1992, to notify the

name of such person in the Official Gazette. Section 4 provides for

cancellation of contracts entered into fraudulently. Section 5 provides for

the establishment of the Special Court. Section 6 empowers the Special

Court to take cognizance of or try such cases which are instituted before it or

transferred to it. Jurisdiction of the Special Court is provided for in Section

7 of the 1992 Act. It starts with a non obstante clause providing that any

prosecution in respect of any offence referred to in sub-section (2) of Section

3 shall be instituted only in the Special Court and any prosecution in respect

of such offence pending in any Court shall stand transferred to the Special

Court. Section 9 provides for the procedure and powers of the Special

Court. Let us, at the outset, deal with contention of learned counsel for the

appellant that having regard to the definition of `securities' as contained in 28 Section 2(c) of the 1992 Act which does not involve `bill discounting and

rediscounting', the Special Court had no jurisdiction to try the accused for

the offences alleged against them. The definition of `securities' is an inclusive one. It is not exhaustive.

It takes within its purview not only the matters specified therein but also all

other types of securities as commonly understood. The term `securities',

thus, should be given an expansive meaning. In State of Bombay and others v. The Hospital Mazoor Sabha and

others , AIR 1960 SC 610 this Court while interpreting the definition of

"industry" as contained in Section 2(j) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947

held as under:- (See also Regional Director, Employees State Insurance Corporation v.

High Land Coffee Works of P.X.S. Saldanha and sons and another, [ (1991)

3 SCC 617). In Commercial Taxation Officer, Udaipur v. Rajasthan Taxchem

Ltd. [(2007) 3 SCC 124, this Court stated: This jurisdiction of the Special Court is not confined to the scam

relating to securities alone but utilization of any amount relating to

transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith or incidental

thereto. The jurisdiction of the Special Court is exclusive one. It exercises

original jurisdiction to try offences relating to security scam. The said Act

having regard to the peculiar nature of offence sought to be dealt with,

should receive a liberal construction. In Harshad S. Mehta and others v. State of Maharashtra , [(2001) 8

SCC 257], this Court held: We may also notice another decision of this Court in L.S. Synthetics

Ltd. v. Fairgrowth Financial Services Ltd. and another , [(2004) 11 SCC

456] wherein it was held as under:- Jurisdiction of the Special Court is required to be determined with

regard to the provisions of Section 6 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,

1973. The Act is a special Act. It contains a non obstante clause. It shall,

thus, prevail over any other Act. [See - Solidaire India Ltd. v. Fairgrowth

Financial Services Ltd. and others , [(2001) 3 SCC 71]. An offence is committed with a view to circumvent the law. An

apparent state of affairs need not be the real state of affairs. A simple

transaction of discounting and rediscounting on its face may appear to be

genuine and lawful but there may be underlying purposes behind it. It has

not been disputed that Harshad Mehta was dealing in the money market and 31 securities market and that Growmore although being a public limited

company, was controlled by Harshad Mehta. Both Mazda as also Growmore

indisputably were dealing in the business of selling and buying of shares.

Further M/s J.H. Mehta, was the proprietary concern of the wife of Harshad

Mehta. She used to execute business through her constituted attorney.

General Power of Attorney had also been issued by the aforementioned

Companies in favour of the accused persons. The Harshad Mehta Group of

Companies were therefore dealing in securities. The method of siphoning of the funds of UCO Bank through

discounting of two bills of exchange was unlawful. Both the bills of

exchange were shown to have been issued in relation to transaction in shares

between M/s JH Mehta, Growmore and Mazda. For the purpose of arranging repayment of the amount, shares were

purchased by UCO Bank through M/s VB Desai and

Co. The offence of conspiracy to commit the offence of Breach of trust,

thus, related to the transaction in securities. It is therefore not a case where it can be said that the Special Court

lacked inherent jurisdiction in trying the offence said to have been

committed by the accused. RBI CIRCULAR

 Banking business is controlled by several Acts of Parliament. We

need not go into the history relating thereto in great details being not

necessary. Suffice it to say that UCO Bank is a Nationalized Bank having been

taken over under the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of

Undertakings) Act, 1970 . It has various branches in Bombay; its main

Branch being at D.N. Road. Its Nariman Point Branch was mainly dealing

with foreign exchanges. The business as regards discounting and

rediscounting usually used to be carried out at the main branch. The Bank, inter alia, is regulated under the provisions of the Reserve

Bank of India Act, 1934 as also the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (for short,

"the 1949 Act") Its directions are statutory in character. 33 In terms of Section 35A of the 1949 Act, the Reserve Bank of India is

empowered to issue directions to the Banks in public interest; or in the

interest of Banking policy; or to prevent the affairs of any banking company

being conducted in a manner detrimental to the interests of the depositors or

in a manner prejudicial to the interest of the Banking Company; or to secure

the proper management of any Banking company generally. The Reserve

Bank of India in terms of Section 21 of the 1949 Act is empowered to

control advances by banking companies and issue necessary directions in

this behalf. The Reserve Bank of India, therefore, has the requisite power to issue

direction to Banks in relation to discounting and rediscounting of bills of

exchange and those directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India have

statutory force and, thus, can be termed as law in force. {See also Corporation Bank vs. D.S. Gowda & Anr. [( 1994) 5 SCC 213] & Central

Bank of India vs. Ravindra & Ors. [(2002) 1 SCC 367]}

 All public sector banks are bound thereby. Pursuant to or in furtherance of the said power, the Reserve Bank of

India issued a Circular dated 5.9.1988 titled "BILLS REDISCOUNTING 34 SCHEME -- INTRODUCTION OF USANCE PROMISSORY NOTES -

PROCEDURE THEREFOR", clauses 2(iii) and 2(v) whereof read as under We may also notice that the Bank had issued a Manual, known as the

"UCO Bank Manual of Instructions on Bill Discounting" relating to

discounting of Bills of Exchange, laying down the procedure therefor,

relevant portions whereof (marked as Exhibit 239) read as under: House bills are bills where drawer and drawee are
 identical or connected persons. Purchase of house bills
 obviously involves greater risk than the purchaser of bills
 drawn on unconnected, independent drawees. Purchase
 of house bills should be recommended for sanction only
 when the credit rating, business integrity, past dealings
 and business methods of the customer are highly 35 satisfactory and he is considered good for the limit on his
 single signature." THE EFFECT OF THE CIRCULAR LETTER

 Accused Nos. 1, 2 and 8 being public servants, they were bound by

the aforementioned Circulars having been issued by the Reserve Bank of

India. Mr. Jethmalani, however, has relied upon the decision in B.O.I.

Finance Ltd. v. Custodian & ors. 1997 (10) SCC 488, wherein this Court

while dealing with a Circular letter which had been marked confidential

opined that such a Circular did not bind third parties, stating: Having regard to the provisions of Section 36(1)(a) and (b) of the Banking Regulation Act , it was held that they were only in the nature of an

advice and not binding on the third parties. The distinction between exercise of jurisdiction under the enabling

provisions contained in Section 36(1) and the ones under Sections 21 and 35A of the Banking Regulation Act and the provisions contained in Section

45L of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 is absolutely clear and

unambiguous. In terms of Section 36 , the Reserve Bank of India may caution or

prohibit the Banking Companies but in terms of Sections 21 and 35A of

1949 Act it can issue binding directions. The directions have been issued by

the Reserve Bank of India in regard to rediscounting. 37 The said decision therefore is not applicable to the facts and

circumstances of this case. Whether a circular letter issued by a statutory authority would

be binding or not or whether the same has a statutory force, would depend

upon the nature of the statute. For the said purpose, the intention of the

legislature must be considered. Having regard to the fact that the Reserve

Bank of India exercises control over the Banking Companies, we are of the

opinion that the said Circular letter was binding on the Banking Companies.

The officials of UCO Bank were, therefore, bound by the said circular letter. The Madhya Pradesh High Court in The State of Madhya Pradesh

v. Ramcharan [AIR 1977 MP 68] held: These definitions go to confirm that under our legal order
 "law" does not include only legislative enactments but it
 also includes rules, orders, notifications etc. made or
 issued by the Government or any subordinate authority in
 the exercise of delegated legislative power. ... 7. The question relating to a post-constitution order or
 notification in the context whether it amounts to law was
 considered by the Supreme Court in Jayantilal Amratlal v
 F. N. Rana , AIR 1964 SC 648 = 1964-5 SCR 294. ...The
 Court further observed as follows: It therefore stands established from the above that UCO Bank could

only have discounted the bills of exchange out of bonafide commercial

transactions as had been provided under the RBI circulars which were

statutorily binding on UCO Bank. So far as the submission of the learned counsel that they had no

knowledge of the circulars issued by RBI is concerned, we would affirm the 39 findings of the special judge that the conduct of the accused clearly shows to

the contrary that they in fact did have knowledge of the RBI Circulars in

question. They otherwise would not have gone to the length of creating

documents to show that the bills of exchange had been issued because of a

sale of shares of M/s JH Mehta to Growmore and Mazda. If they did not

have the knowledge of the said circulars and if the bank had been willing to

discount the bills of exchange, a simple accommodation Bill of Exchange

could have been executed. In order that the bank could discount a bill of

exchange, it was necessary that it related to a bonafide or genuine

commercial transaction and it was because of this requirement that the

accused persons had gone to the extent of preparing false documents to give

an appearance that the discounting related to bona fide commercial

transaction. CRIMINAL BREACH OF TRUST Section 405 of the Indian Penal Code defines Criminal Breach of

Trust in the following terms: An offence of criminal breach of trust by a public servant attracts the

penal provision of Section 409 of the Indian Penal Code. Indisputably, the

Bank entrusted its funds to its officers; they had the dominion over the said

property; they were holding the said money in trust which is an

comprehensive expression, inter alia, to denote a relationship of master and

servant. The act of Criminal Breach of Trust per se may involve a civil

wrong but a breach of trust with an ingredient of mens rea would give rise to

a criminal prosecution as well. The ingredients of Section 409 are: The criminal breach of trust would, inter alia, mean using or disposing

of the property by a person who is entrusted with or has otherwise dominion

thereover. Such an act must not only be done dishonestly but also in 41 violation of any direction of law or any contract express or implied relating

to carrying out the trust. It is one thing to say that any Circular Letter issued

by the Reserve Bank of India being not within the public domain would not

be law but it would be another thing to say that it did not contain any

direction of law so as to attract the liability in terms of Section 405 of the

Indian Penal Code. Lawful directions were issued by the Reserve Bank of

India. The Circular Letter was meant for all Scheduled Banks. The

authorities and/or officers running the affairs of the Scheduled Banks

therefore were aware thereof. If it is binding on the Banks, it would be

binding on the officers. Any act of omission or commission on the part of

any authority of the Bank would amount to acting in violation of any

direction of law. A direction of law need not be a law made by the

Parliament or a Legislature; it may be made by an authority having the

power therefor; the law could be a subordinate legislation, a notification or

even a custom. Indisputably, the higher authorities of the bank were entrusted with or

otherwise had dominion over the properties of the bank. They were dealing

with public funds. Indisputably again they were required to apply the same

in terms of the Circulars issued by the Bank as also the Reserve Bank of

India. It has been accepted at the Bar that failure on the part of the officers 42 of the Bank to abide by the directives issued under the Circulars would

result in civil action. Subjecting the bank to a civil liability would thus

attract one of the ingredients of criminal breach of trust. There cannot be,

however, any doubt whatsoever that a mere error of judgment would not

attract the penal provision contained in Section 409 of the Indian Penal

Code. The materials brought on record by the parties must be judged

keeping in view of the aforesaid legal position. The primary question is whether the property of the bank was

dishonestly used or disposed of in violation of any direction of law

prescribing the mode therefor. The mode of disposal of the public money is

prescribed in terms of the UCO Bank Manual and the Circulars issued by the

Reserve Bank of India. It was, however, necessary for the prosecution to

prove that the same was done with requisite mens rea. Before proceeding further, we may notice some basic facts which

have been proved by the prosecution and in respect whereof there is not

much controversy. All the accused were working as full-time employees. On 13.3.1992,

Margabanthu (Accused No.1) Chairman-cum-Managing Director of the

Bank met Harshad Mehta, the prime accused. This has been proved by

Joglekar PW-6 the Driver and R.L. Joshi, PW-7. What transpired in the said meeting although is not known, the

purport thereof can be found out from the representation made by Accused

No. 1 in the meeting held on 14.3.1992, which was attended by PW 44 -

Prabhu, Assistant General Manager of the Nariman Point Branch, PW 45 -

Bhaskar Roy Choudhary, Dy. General Manager, Accused No. 8 -

Ramanathan, Division Manager and PW 7 - R.L. Joshi, Market Promotion

Officer, that the bank may earn some profit without investing its own

money. Ex facie, the offer appeared to be attractive as it was for the benefit

of the Bank but the process involved therein was a complex one. It was insisted that the transaction of such magnitude be carried out

from the Nariman Point Branch of the Bank which was not the main branch

and was not otherwise well equipped to deal with such transactions. The

private accused did not have any account in the said branch. The employees

of the said branch did not have enough experience to carry out transaction of 44 such high values. Despite objection made by Prabhu (PW-44), the same was

insisted upon. It had not been disclosed that a similar offer made by Mazda to carry

the transactions at the Hamam Street Branch of the Bank had yielded no

results. An assessment of creditworthiness of Mazda was made and it was

found that their creditworthiness was only to the extent of Rs. 2.76 crores

and not beyond the same. This appears to be the prime reason why the

transactions were shifted from Hamam Street Branch to Nariman Point

Branch. The officers of the main branch of the Bank at Bombay were not

taken into confidence at all. One of the officers who was asked to attend the

meeting was Ramanathan, Divisional Manager (Accused No.8). Why he

was involved had not been explained? He might not have participated in the

meeting as contended but then his subsequent role speaks of volumes. We

would refer thereto a little later. It must be noticed that during the said

meeting itself the Accused No. 1 spoke to Accused No. 2 over phone. This

has been proved by PW-7 in his deposition, stating: The fact that Accused No.1 spoke to Accused 2 over phone was also

stated by PW-44 and PW-45 in their statements. The reason why consent of

Accused No. 2 or at least the necessity of keeping him informed about the

transaction appears to be that he used to handle the call money. If a large

chunk of money goes out of the coffer of the bank, it would have been

probably necessary to arrange for call money in future. Although, it is not the case of the prosecution that Nariman Point

Branch of the Bank had not been dealing with discounting/rediscounting of

the Bills of Exchange; what was pointed out was that from the said Branch

such a huge transaction had never been carried out. Objection of PW 44 was

over ruled on the premise that Harshad Mehta who had vast experience in

the field himself would be taking care of the transaction. 46 Indisputably, thus, the person for whose benefit the transactions were

sought to be carried out, was involved in the internal functioning of the

Bank. This aspect of the matter has been proved by PW-7 - R.L. Joshi, PW-

44 - S.V. Prabhu and PW-45 - Bhaskar Roy Choudhary. On the same day, Growmore passed a resolution to open an account at

the Nariman Point Branch of the UCO Bank for the purpose of availing Bill

Discounting limit of Rs. 50 crores. Harshad Mehta (accused No. 3), Ashwin

Mehta (accused No. 4) and Sudhir Mehta (accused No. 5) were authorized to

execute necessary documents on behalf of the company. Although we do

not know the exact time of holding of the meeting of the Bank Authorities

vis-`-vis the time when the Resolution was passed but the fact remains that

both took place on the same date. Only a few days later, Sunil Samtani

(accused No.7), the Vice President of Mazda and Pankaj Shah (accused

No.9), the Vice President of Growmore came to the Bank and met Prabhu

(PW-44). They did not come alone; they were accompanied by Ramanathan

(accused No.8). Admittedly, they obtained two forms for opening Current

Accounts. At the same time, the Officers were invited for attending a

cocktail party on 18.3.1992, i.e. on the same day. We would presume that before accused No. 7 and accused No. 9 came

to the Bank, a resolution was also passed by Mazda. Although no

documentary evidence in this behalf is available on record but it was spoken

of by PW 4 Prakash V. Bhat. The learned special judge also has referred

thereabout in his judgment. We may, for this purpose also, take into

consideration that a dinner was held at Hotel Oberoi on the same day. It was

attended by Ramanathan (Accused No. 8), Prabhu (PW-44), Roy Choudhary

(PW-45). Accused No. 7, Accused No.9 and Harshad Mehta (Accused

No.3) were also present. It is crucial that on 24.3.1992, at about 2.30 P.M.,

Samtani (accused No. 7) and Pankaj Shah (accused No.9) came to the

Nariman Point Branch of the UCO Bank; they brought with them two

cheques marked Exhibit 24 and Exhibit 26; the first having been drawn by

Syndicate Bank on the same date for a sum of Rs.24,63,01,370/- in favour of

UCO Bank, and second from the State Bank of Patiala of the same date for a

sum of Rs.25,00,53,636/-. The application forms for opening `Current

Accounts' were handed over to Prabhu (PW-44). The cheques were handed

over to Ranjit Mukherjee (PW 1) for clearance. PW-44 testified that the

account opening forms were given to the Current Account Department. At

the same time, two draft promissory notes were brought, on the basis

whereof usance promissory notes were prepared and signed by Prabhu (PW- 48 44) and Ranjit Mukherjee (PW-1). Bank's functions of preparing draft

promissory notes were therefore taken over by the borrower. The promissory notes were issued (Exhibit 28 and Exhibit 29) in

favour of Syndicate Bank for a sum of Rs. 25 crores and in favour of State

Bank of Patiala for a sum of Rs. 25,36,64,000/-. They also brought two

Bills of Exchange (Exhibit 154 and Exhibit 155) one of which was drawn by

M/s J.H. Mehta for a sum of Rs. 14,41,44,000/- signed by Ashwin Mehta

(Accused No.4) and the other for a sum of Rs.35,95,24,000/- signed by Sunil

Samtani (Accused No.7). Whereas former (Exhibit 154) was accepted by

Growmore and the later (Exhibit 155) by Mazda. Both the Bills of

Exchange were executed by Sudhir Mehta (accused No. 5). Ranjit Mukherjee (PW-1) who was supported by PW-44 - Prabhu

categorically stated that no original contract note with regard to the

underlying security transactions had been produced, only a photocopy was

produced. No security was received for discounting the Bills of Exchange.

Banks also did not have the shares in relation to which the Bills of Exchange

were drawn before the promissory notes were executed. 49 As is customary, having regard to the nature of the promissory notes

being usance, Mazda and Growmore were to repay the amount on 24.4.1992.

They issued letters promising to do so (Exhibit 35 and Exhibit 36). Letters were also issued asking the Bank to issue cheques in the name

of ANZ Grindlays Bank. The same was complied with. Accused No. 7 and

Accused No. 9 were handed over: (i) two pay orders in favour of ANZ

Grindlays Bank; (ii) receipts for the two cheques received from Syndicate

Bank and State Bank of Patiala; and (iii) two usance promissory notes. Indisputably, as on the said date, M/s J.H. Mehta did not have any

account at the Nariman Point Branch. Accounts of Mazda being Account

No. 1705 (Exhibit 86), Growmore being Account No. 1706 (Exhibit 89) and

M/s J.H. Mehta being Account No. 1708 (Exhibit 93) were opened later.

The transactions took place in a post haste manner. Accounts of Growmore and Mazda were credited and pay orders were

issued. Thereafter, M/s J.H. Mehta's Account was credited and the amount

was transferred to the accounts of Growmore and Mazda. When certain

irregularities in regard to the Bill discounting were pointed out, PW 44 and

PW-1 admitted that confusion was prevailing in the matter. The Bills were

rediscounted by State Bank of Patiala before they had been discounted by 50 UCO Bank. PW-19 I.B. Gupta, who is an employee of State Bank of Patiala

categorically stated that Sunil Samtani (accused No.7) had contacted the

Bank in the morning about the bill rediscounting. Similarly, S.K. Jindal

(PW-21), an officer of the State Bank of Patiala testified that Prakash Shah

(PW-9) had given an offer on behalf of Harshad Mehta for investment in bill

rediscounting. Money was credited in the account of M/s J.H. Mehta with

ANZ Grindlays Bank. This has been proved by Cheque dated 25.3.1992

(Exhibit 267) and the deposit slip (Exhibit 268). This was the route of

transferring the money agreed to by all the players. The submission of the learned counsel for the appellants that there has

been no violation of the RBI Guidelines and/or the UCO Bank Manual

cannot be accepted. It may be true that Shri Veeraraghwan Rangarajan (PW 40), Executive Director, RBI, Bombay had stated that technically the RBI

Circular referred to the Bill rediscounting and not discounting, but it is not

disputed at the Bar that Bill rediscounting must be preceded by Bill

discounting. UCO Bank had issued usance promissory notes; it was

required to be backed by encumbered usance Bills of Exchange of at least

equal value not due for payment; the transactions were required to be bona

fide commercial transaction. UCO Bank Manual although permits advances

as against house bills but it stipulates that for the said purpose, 51 creditworthiness of the customer was required to be verified. Credit limit

was also to be fixed. For the said purpose, credit reports were to be

compiled; limits were to be sanctioned. The jurisdiction of Chairman-cum-

Managing Director and other Authorities are fixed if the Bill of Exchange

exceeds Rs. 25,000/-, credit report on drawees on whom the bill is drawn is

also required to be obtained. The Manual mandates that security be also

taken. The duty had been cast on the Manager to satisfy himself that Bill of

Exchange is the result of genuine trade transaction.

ILLEGALITY Section 43 defines the terms `Illegal' or `Legally bound to do" in the

following terms. is applicable to everything which is an offence or which
 is prohibited by law, or which furnishes ground for a civil
 action; and a person is said to be "legally bound to do" PW-44 in his evidence stated: To the same effect is the evidence of Varanadi Subrahmanyam (PW- 43), who testified: Thus, all attempts to procure the balance sheet, etc. were undertaken

at a later date. As the date of repayment was coming closer, UCO Bank

sent letters to Mazda and Growmore for arranging funds to retire the Bill of

Exchange on due date. Evidently, they were unable to fulfill their promise. 61 For the said purpose, Harshad Mehta had already spoken to Accused No.1

and he agreed that the Bills would be rolled over for one more month. PW-

44 was informed thereabout by Pankaj Shah (Accused No.9). Naturally, as

the entire blame would be put on him, he did not agree thereto and insisted

on payment. In his evidence, he stated: He was corroborated by PW-45 who stated: From the aforementioned evidence, it is evident that PW-44 informed

about his decision for insistence of payment to Accused No. 2 and PW-45

also informed of the same to Accused No. 1. We can understand that

Accused No. 2 being a high-ranking Officer was informed particularly in

view of the fact that if the Bank does not get back the money, it has to take

loan for the purposes of having call money, but the very fact that the high-

ranking officers also informed the Accused No. 8, speaks a volume. We

would consider this aspect of the matter a little later. Admittedly, even on 24.4.1992 payments were not made either by the

drawer or by the acceptors. At this stage, it may not be necessary to consider

the submission of Mr. Bhattacharyya that in terms of Section 32 of the

Negotiable Instruments Act, it was the acceptor's liability and not the

drawer's liability, for the simple reason that whosoever's liability it was, the

fact remained that the money had not been re-deposited. Indisputably, UCO

bank had to make payment out of its own funds. As by reason thereof a

shortfall occurred, call money was borrowed from two other banks, namely,

Corporation Bank and Oriental Bank of Commerce to the tune of Rs. 50

crores for three days. The evidence of PW-44 in this regard is relevant,

which is as under: To the same effect is the evidence of PW-1: We are, therefore, of the opinion that the charge of criminal breach of

trust stands established against Accused 1, and 2. The role played by

Accused No. 2 in the entire chain of events is significant. The decision to

discount the two bills of exchange at Nariman Point Branch had been taken

by Accused No. 1 only after consulting Accused No. 2. Accussed No. 2 had

full details of the transaction. He had also played a key role in the purchase

of shares by UCO Bank to provide for repayment of the amount advanced by

UCO Bank itself. He had also similarly made an endorsement for issuing a

cheque in favour of ANZ Grindley's Bank on account of JH Mehta. 64 However we may notice that the role played by Accused No. 2 was

subsidiary to that played by Accused No. 1. The entire transaction appears to

have been gone through because of a deal struck between deceased Harshad

Mehta and Accused No. 1. We would take note of this aspect of the case

while considering the quantum of sentence so far as Accused No. 2 is

concerned. We agree with the observations of the learned Special Judge that

Accused No. 8 was not in a position to issue any directions; he being a Scale

IV employee. He therefore could not be said to be guilty of the offence of

Criminal Breach of trust. We find no justification advanced by the

prosecution to interfere with the judgment of acquittal recorded by the

learned Special Judge as regards the Accused No. 8.

CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY

 Criminal conspiracy is an independent offence. It is punishable

independent of other offences; its ingredients being:- (i) an agreement between two or more persons. (ii) the agreement must relate to doing or causing to be done either (a) an illegal act; (b) an act which is not illegal in itself but is

 done by illegal means. It is now, however, well settled that a conspiracy ordinarily is hatched

in secrecy. The court for the purpose of arriving at a finding as to whether

the said offence has been committed or not may take into consideration the

circumstantial evidence. While however doing so, it must bear in mind that

meeting of the minds is essential; mere knowledge or discussion would not

be. As the question has been dealt with in some detail in Criminal Appeal

No. 76 of 2004 (R. Venkatakrishnan vs. Central Bureau of Investigation), it

is not necessary for us to dilate thereupon any further. We may, however, notice that recently in Yogesh @ Sachin Jagdish

Joshi v. State of Maharashtra [(2008) 6 SCALE 469], a Division Bench of

this Court held: Yet again in Nirmal Singh Kahlon vs. State of Punjab & Ors. [(2008)

14 SCALE 639], this Court following Ram Lal Narang vs. State (Delhi

Administration [(1979) 2 SCC 322] held that a conspiracy may be a general

one and a separate one meaning thereby a larger conspiracy and a smaller

which may develop in successive stages. For the aforementioned purpose,

the conduct of the parties also assumes some relevance. {See also Chaman

Lal & Ors. v. State of Punjab & Ors. [JT 2009 (4) SC 662]}

 In K.R. Purushothaman vs. State of Kerala [(2005) 12 SCC 631], this

Court held: {See also P.K. Narayanan vs. State of Kerala [(1995) 1 SCC 142]}: On the strength of the opening of the account Mazda and Growmore in the

said Branch, two bills were presented. It is, however, of some significance

to notice that the original credit note relating to the alleged sale transactions

of shares had not been presented, only a photocopy thereof had been

presented. A sum of Rs. 50 crore is made available on the same day; no

verification or assessment as per procedure is carried out; no security was

taken. Yet again, before the bills of exchange were discounted,

rediscounting had already been done by two other branches. The usuance 71 promissory notes, however, were issued by UCO Bank later. Rediscounting

is permissible only when the transaction of discounting is taken first. P.W.

40 said so in no uncertain terms in the following manner: For the purpose of covering default in retiring the bills of exchange,

shares were purchased from J.H. Mehta by UCO Bank and a sum of Rs.

49.50 crore were made available to it by retiring the same. J.H. Mehta in

turn transferred the accounts to Mazda and Growmore

 Purchase of shares of J.H. Mehta is neither denied nor disputed. It

was projected as a bona fide acquisition of shares in the interest of the Bank. However, the very fact that the principal accused made a default of

repayment of Rs. 50 crores, the purchase of shares by the Bank itself

assumes significance. Even Accused No. 2 took prominent part in the

matter of purchase of shares. We have already noted that both Accused 1

and Accused 2 played a major role in arranging the entire transaction. In fact

had it not been for Accused No. 1, in our opinion it would not have been 72 possible for Harshad Mehta or his associates to take the Bank for a ride and

unlawfully utilize the funds of the bank. With a view to achieve the said object, neither the RBI directions

requiring bills of exchange to satisfy the tests of bona fide commercial or

cash transactions were complied with nor the procedure laid down under the

UCO Bank Manual were followed. The power of the Chairman for

investment in shares is upto Rs. 10 crore. His power in regard to bill

discounting is only upto Rs.5 crore. So far as other accused are concerned,

namely Accused No.3, Accused No. 4 and Accused 5, they were not only

residing at the same place but Accused No. 4 and Accused 5 were men of

trust of Harshad Mehta. A power of attorney had been executed in their

favour. The Board of Directors of Growmore had by their resolution dated

14th March, 1992 authorized Accused 4 and 5 to seek bill discounting facility

from UCO Bank to the limit of Rs. 50 crores. The application for opening

the account of Growmore at Nariman point had been signed by Accused No. 4. Further on behalf of Growmore the Bill of exchange had been accepted by

Accused No. 4. Not only this but the letter dated 24th March,1992 addressed

to UCO Bank by Growmore undertaking to repay the amount by 24 th April, 73 1992 had also been signed by Accused No. 4. Legally the Bank would have

been concerned only with M/s JH Mehta. But the letter of Growmore signed

by Accused No. 4 clerly indicates his involvement in the Criminal

conspiracy. So far as Accused No. 5 is concerned, it is he who had signed the Bill

of Exchange as the Power of attorney of the proprietors of of M/s JH Mehta.

It is he who had signed the forms for opening the account with the Nariman

Point Branch of UCO Bank. He had signed the letter dated 23.3.1992

requesting the Bank to discount the two bills of Exchange. The relationship

between the parties both personal and professional clearly establishes

criminal conspiracy on the Part of Accused No. 5. We therefore affirm the

decision of the special judge finding Accused No. 5 guilty of the offence of

Criminal Conspiracy. As we have already mentioned Accused Nos. 6, 7 and 9 have not

preferred appeals before us challenging their conviction. We find no reason

to interfere with the judgment of conviction arrived at by the learned Special

Judge with respect to the said accused. We however disagree with the conclusions arrived at by the learned

Special Judge with regard to the guilt of Accused No. 8 for the offence of 74 Criminal Conspiracy. The mere fact that he might have been present at the

meeting dated 14.3.1992 of the officers of UCO Bank by itself does not in

our opinion conclusively prove his involvement in the conspiracy hatched by

the other officers of the Bank. Something more was needed to be shown that

he was a party thereto. In conclusion we hold Accused No. 1 (K. Margabanthu), Accused No.

2 (Ramaiya Venkatkrishnan), Accused No. 4 (Ashwin Mehta) and Accused

No. 5 (Sudhir Mehta) guilty of the offence of Criminal conspiracy. We need

not interfere with the conviction of Accused 6, 7 and 9. Accused No 8 (S.V.

Ramanathan) is acquitted of the charge of Criminal Conspiracy.

SENTENCING

 We must, while pronouncing on the sentence to be passed on the

accused make note of the fact that the CBI has not preferred any appeals for

enhancement against the impugned judgment of the Special Court. This

Court, therefore, cannot impose a higher sentence. Accused No. 1, K Margabanthu had been sentenced to undergo RI for

a period of six months and to pay a fine of Rs.1,00,000/- in default to 75 undergo SI for two months, by the learned Special Judge. We find no reason

to interfere therewith. Accused No. 2, Ramaiya Venkatkrishnan had been sentenced to

undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI) for three months and to pay a fine of

Rs. 50,000/- in default simple imprisonment (SI) for 15 days, by the learned

Special Judge. We set aside the sentence of the special judge and sentence

him to imprisonment for a period of one month of RI and to pay a fine of

Rs.1,00,000/- and in default thereof Simple Imprisonment for 15 days. Accused No. 4 Ashwin Mehta is sentenced to undergo RI for a period

of one month and to pay a fine of Rs.1,00,000/- in default Simple

Imprisonment for 15 days. Accused No. 5 (Sudhir Mehta) is sentenced to undergo Rigorous

Imprisonment for a period of one month and to pay a fine of Rs.1,00,000/- in

default Simple Imprisonment for 15 days. All the accused should be entitled to set off for the period of

imprisonment undergone by them in this case. .....................................J.
 [S.B. Sinha]

 .....................................J.
 [Cyriac Joseph]
New Delhi; August 7, 2009