NAVIN CHAWLA, J. 1. The present petition has been filed by the petitioner challenging
 the Order dated 06.02.2022 passed by the respondent no.1, whereby
 the petitioner has been dismissed from service with immediate effect. 2. The petitioner further prays for directions to the respondents to
 reinstate the petitioner back in service with effect from 06.02.2022,
 and grant him all service benefits from the said date, including
 seniority, rank, pay, arrears etc. with interest @ 18% p.a.
 BRIEF FACTS 3. The petitioner joined the Border Security Force (BSF) as an
 Assistant Commandant (AC) (Direct Entry) on 19.11.2012, whereafter
 he was posted to the 145th Bn. 4. In terms of the Order dated 26.02.2016 issued by the Deputy
 Inspector General (DIG), a Board of Officers (BOO) was detailed to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 1 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 conduct a surprise check of the entire troops deployed at the BOP
 Srimantapur to verify and look into the alleged smuggling activities
 taking place in the area. 5. In furtherance of the same, on the morning of 27.02.2016, Sh.
 Ganesh Kumar, who was the Presiding Officer of the BOO, along
 with the other team members of the search party came to the BOP
 Srimantapur and started the search operation. During the search,
 Rs.2.54 lakhs in cash was recovered from the petitioner. 6. On 29.02.2016, the respondents conducted a Staff Court of
 Inquiry (SCOI) to inquire into the circumstances under which troops
 of the 145th Bn, BOP Srimantpur, were found in possession of various
 amounts of cash by the BOO on 27.02.2016. 7. Pursuant thereto, the petitioner was charged with the following
 three charges by way of Charge Sheet dated 02.05.2017, issued by the
 Commandant of the 168th Bn, BSF: THIRD CHARGE NEGLECTING TO OBEY LOCAL ORDER
 BSF ACT 1968
 SECTION- 22(e) in that he,

 while deployed at BOP Srimantapur of
 145 Bn BSF, on 27/02/2016 was found in a
 possession of Rupees 2,54,000/- (Rupees two
 lakh fifty four thousand) during surprise
 checking by a BOO detailed by DIG, SHQ
 BSF Gokulnagar in contravention to the
 Frontier Headquarter Border Security Force,
 Tripura signal No. O/4553 dated 24.03.2011 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 3 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 which prescribes that no individual deployed
 on border is allowed to retain more than Rs.
 500/- at any given time in his possession. 8. The hearing of the Charges commenced on the same day itself,
 wherein the petitioner pleaded „Not Guilty‟ to all the three charges.
 The Commandant of the 168th Bn, BSF, ordered for the Record of
 Evidence (RoE) proceedings against the petitioner on the
 abovementioned three charges. 9. The respondents, in terms of the Notice/Order dated
 06.07.2018, decided to try the petitioner by convening a General
 Security Force Court (GSFC), which was assembled at the Bn HQ of
 the 200th Bn, on the following charges: gotten from smuggling, was not substantiated by the evidence led by
 the prosecution; the prosecution failed to lead any evidence that could
 substantiate that the petitioner was involved in any smuggling activity;
 and that the prosecution could not substantiate beyond reasonable
 doubt that the amount in question, handed over by the Petitioner to the
 BOO, was beyond the known source of income making it punishable
 under Section 13(1)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The
 GSFC reiterated that the amount in question was found to be the legal
 money of the petitioner and was not earned from smuggling activities. 14. The revision GSFC Proceedings were again forwarded to the
 Confirming Authority, which vide Order dated 01.11.2019 and
 Corrigendum dated 06.12.2019, once again decided not to confirm the
 findings of the GSFC in respect of the First Charge but confirmed the
 findings and sentence in respect of the Second Charge. 15. The petitioner submitted a Statutory Petition/Post-Confirmation
 Petition dated 27.01.2020 to the respondents. 16. The respondent no.2 at the behest of the respondent no.4, issued
 a Show Cause Notice dated 19.11.2020 to the petitioner, directing him
 to show cause as to why his services should not be terminated in terms
 of Section 10 of the BSF Act, 1968 read with Rule 20(4)(a) of the
 BSF Rules, 1969, by dismissing him from service. 17. The petitioner replied to the Show Cause Notice in February,
 2021. 18. The Statutory Petition/Post-Confirmation Petition dated
 27.01.2020 of the petitioner was rejected by the respondent no.1 on Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 6 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 14.09.2021, by stating that there was no substance in the issues raised
 by the petitioner in his petition and that sufficient evidence was
 available in the trial proceedings to substantiate the Charge levelled
 against the petitioner. 19. Thereafter, by the impugned Order dated 06.02.2022, relying
 upon the powers vested under Section 10 of the BSF Act, 1968, read
 with Rule 20(4)(a) of the BSF Rules, 1969, the services of the
 petitioner were terminated with immediate effect. SUBMISSIONS OF THE LEARNED COUNSEL FOR THE
 PETITIONER: 20. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the amount
 of Rs.2,54,000/- recovered from the petitioner was partly borrowed by
 him from his family friend and partly given to him by his sister and
 brother-in-law for the urgent treatment and hospitalization of the
 petitioner‟s father, who was required to be shifted to a hospital in
 Delhi. He submits that the money was not used as the petitioner‟s
 father recovered rather quickly. Since the petitioner was in a rush to
 join his Unit, having overstayed his leave by two days, inadvertently,
 the petitioner carried the said cash amount with him to the BOP. 21. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that during the
 search at BOP Srimantapur by the BOO, the petitioner had voluntarily
 handed over the cash amount to the search party and emphasizes that
 there is a difference between 'recovered' and 'handed over'. 22. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that all the
 charges were duly considered by the GSFC and having failed to force Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 7 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 the GFSC to change its opinion as far as the First Charge was
 concerned, the respondents have arbitrarily invoked the power vested
 in them under Rule 20 of the BSF Rules to terminate the service of the
 petitioner. 23. He submits that for invoking the power under Rule 20 of the
 Rules, it is a pre-condition that the trial of the officer by a Security
 Force Court should be inexpedient or impracticable. In the present
 case, not only has a full trial taken place, but the Conforming
 Authority had also remanded the same to the GSFC for a revision.
 Only because the opinion of the GSFC on such revision was not to the
 liking of the Confirming Authority, the power vested in the
 respondents under Rule 20 of the Rules could not have been invoked
 as per its whims and fancies. In support of his submissions, the
 learned counsel places reliance on the Judgments of this Court in S.S.
 Shekhavat v. Union of India & Ors. , 2008: DHC:2846-DB and Yacub
 Kispotta & Ors. v. Director General BSF & Ors. , 2015 SCC OnLine
 Del 12437; as well as on the Judgment of the Calcutta High Court in Sri. Amiya Ghosh v. Union of India & Ors. , 2016 SCC OnLine Cal
 6177. SUBMISSIONS OF THE LEARNED COUNSEL FOR THE
 RESPONDENTS: 24. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondents
 submits that the petitioner, while being deployed on an international
 border, was found in possession of Rs.2,54,000/- during a surprise
 check. Possession of money of this amount was against the Standard Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 8 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 Operating Procedure (SOP), which prohibited any personnel deployed
 on the border to be in possession of more than Rs.800/-. He submits
 that the plea of the petitioner that he was not aware of such an SOP is
 incorrect and has been rightly disbelieved by the GFSC. 25. He further submits that this Court, in the exercise of its powers
 under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, cannot re-appreciate the
 evidence. He submits that even otherwise, there is no challenge to the
 findings of the GSFC or to the order of the punishment based on the
 findings of the GSFC on the Second Charge. 26. On the impugned Order, whereby the services of the petitioner
 were terminated, the learned counsel for the respondents submits that
 as the Confirming Authority has refused to confirm the findings of the
 GSFC returned in the revision proceedings, further inquiry became
 inexpedient and impracticable. The Director General/respondent no.2,
 therefore, rightly issued a Show Cause Notice to the petitioner for the
 proposed termination of service under Rule 20 of the BSF Rules,
 1969. He submits that the reply submitted by the petitioner against the
 same was duly considered, and it was only after having considered the
 entire record and the evidence led before the GSFC, that the order
 terminating the service of the petitioner was passed in the exercise of
 power under Section 10 of the BSF Act, 1968 read with Rule 20(4)(a)
 of the BSF Rules, 1969. 27. Placing reliance on the Judgment of the Supreme Court in Union of India v. Harjeet Singh Sandhu , (2001) 5 SCC 593, and of
 this Court in S.S. Shekhavat (supra), he submits that in a similar
 situation, the Court has held that where the inquiry becomes Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 9 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 inexpedient due to the GSFC maintaining the same finding in revision,
 which is not confirmed by the Confirming Authority, recourse to the
 power under Rule 20 of the BSF Rules, 1969, can be validly taken. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS: 28. We have considered the submissions made by the learned
 counsels for the parties. 29. At the outset, we would note that as far as the Second Charge is
 concerned, the punishment to the petitioner was promulgated on
 01.11.2019, and the Post-Confirmation Petition of the petitioner was
 rejected by the Confirming Authority vide Order dated 14.09.2021.
 However, there is no challenge to these orders in the present petition.
 The present petition merely challenges the Order dated 06.02.2022,
 whereby the petitioner has been dismissed from service in exercise of
 the power vested under Section 10 of the BSF Act, 1968, read with
 Rule 20 (4)(a) of the BSF Rules, 1969. The submissions made by the
 learned counsel for the petitioner in challenge to the findings on the
 Second Charge, therefore, need not detain this Court. 30. As far as the impugned Order dated 06.02.2022 is concerned,
 and as is noted hereinabove, the Competent Authority came to the
 conclusion that once the finding of the GSFC in the revision trial had
 also not been confirmed by the Confirming Authority, and there being
 no provision for further remand, therefore, the trial of the officer by
 the Security Force Court has become inexpedient and impractical. The
 Competent Authority, therefore, in exercise of its powers under Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 10 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 Section 10 of the BSF Act, read with Rule 20 (4)(a) of the BSF Rules,
 ordered the dismissal of the petitioner from service. 31. Section 10 of the BSF Act reads as under: 32. Rule 20 of the BSF Rules states that when the termination of the
 services of an officer is proposed under Section 10 of the BSF Act on
 account of misconduct, the officer shall be given an opportunity to
 show cause, and after considering the report on the officer‟s
 misconduct, if the Central Government or the Director General, as the
 case may be, is satisfied that the trial of the officer by a Security Force
 Court is "inexpedient or impractical", but is of the opinion that further
 retention of the said officer in service is undesirable, it can order the
 termination of the officer‟s service, including in form of dismissal
 from service. 33. Rule 20 of the BSF Rules is reproduced hereinunder: 34. Pari materia provisions are present in Section 19 of the Army
 Act, 1950, read with Rule 14 of the Army Rules, 1954. Interpreting
 the said provisions, the Supreme Court in Chief of Army Staff and
 Ors v. Major Dharam Pal Kukrety , (1985) 2 SCC 412 held as under: martial and sentenced to be dismissed from
 service. The finding and sentence were
 referred to the confirming authority. The
 confirming authority passed an order
 reserving the same for confirmation by
 superior authority and forwarded the
 proceedings to the Chief of the Air Staff. The
 Chief of the Air Staff passed an order not
 confirming the finding or sentence awarded by
 the court-martial. The finding and sentence
 which were not confirmed by the Chief of Air
 Staff were promulgated after the lapse of
 about ten months. A fresh general court-
 martial was convened to retry the officer. On
 inquiry, the officer was informed that the
 findings and sentence of the general court-
 martial had not been confirmed as it was
 found that the proceedings were not in order
 and, therefore, there was no valid order
 convicting or acquitting the officer. After
 considering the relevant provisions of the Air Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 14 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 Force Act and the Air Force Rules, 1969,
 which are in pari materia with the
 corresponding provisions of the Army Act and
 the Army Rules, a learned Single Judge of the
 Allahabad High Court held that the effect of
 non-confirmation was that though the finding
 and sentence passed by the court-martial
 existed, they could not be put into effect unless
 they had been confirmed under the provisions
 of the Air Force Act , and that in such a case Section 120 of the Air Force Act (which is in
 pari materia with Section 121 of the Army Act)
 barred a second trial by a court-martial. In Major Manohar Lal v. Union of India [(1971)
 1 SLR 717 (P&H)] the petitioner was tried by
 a general court-martial which found him not
 guilty. The General Officer Commanding-in-
 Chief held the proceedings to be null and void
 on the ground that one of the members of the
 court-martial was of the rank of Captain and
 was thus lower in rank to the petitioner and no
 certificate had been recorded by the officer
 convening the court-martial as required by
 Rule 40(2) of the Army Rules, that an officer of
 the rank of the petitioner was not available
 and he, therefore, ordered a retrial. A learned
 Single Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High
 Court held that under the Army Act and the
 Army Rules, a Captain was eligible to be made
 a member of a general court-martial and the
 mere fact that the convening officer did not
 append the certificate that an officer of the
 rank of the petitioner was not available did not
 make the constitution of the general court-
 martial invalid or the finding given by it to be
 without jurisdiction or the proceedings of the
 trial before it to be null and void. He further
 held that as the petitioner had no say in the
 constitution of the general court-martial and
 had suffered the trial before it, the proceedings
 could not have been declared null and void on
 a highly technical ground. The learned Single
 Judge, therefore, came to the conclusion that
 the second trial of the petitioner was without
 jurisdiction and the sentence imposed upon Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 15 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 him in consequence of that trial was wholly
 illegal. In J.C. 13018 Subedar Surat Singh v.
 Chief Engineer Projects (Beacon ) C/o 56
 A.P.O. [AIR 1970 J&K 179 : 1970 Cri LJ
 1610] a Division Bench of the Jammu and
 Kashmir High Court held that though every
 finding of a general court-martial, whether of
 acquittal or of guilt, cannot be regarded as
 valid unless it is confirmed by the competent
 authority, the Legislature could not have
 reasonably intended that an officer convening
 a general court-martial can go on dissolving
 such court-martials and reconstituting them ad
 infinitum until he obtained a verdict or a
 finding of his own liking. The Division Bench
 further held that such a position would not
 only be against public policy and the ancient
 maxim "nemo debet bis vexari pro una et
 eadem causa" (no man ought to be twice
 vexed for one and the same cause) but would
 also reduce the provisions of the Army Act to a
 mockery and give an appearance of mala
 fides. According to the Jammu and Kashmir
 High Court, in such a case the proper course
 for the confirming authority would be to refer
 the case to its superior authority for
 confirmation. 15. This being the position, what then is the
 course open to the Central Government or the
 Chief of the Army Staff when the finding of a
 court-martial even on revision is perverse or
 against the weight of evidence on record? The
 High Court in its judgment under appeal has
 also held that in such a case a fresh trial by
 another court-martial is not permissible. The
 crucial question, therefore, is whether the
 Central Government or the Chief of the Army
 Staff can have resort to Rule 14 of the Army
 Rules. Though it is open to the Central
 Government or the Chief of the Army Staff to
 have recourse to that rule in the first instance
 without directing trial by a court-martial of
 the concerned officer, there is no provision in
 the Army Act or in Rule 14 or any of the other
 rules of the Army Rules which prohibits the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 16 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 Central Government or the Chief of the Army
 Staff from resorting in such a case to Rule 14.
 Can it, however, be said that in such a case a
 trial by a court-martial is inexpedient or
 impracticable? The Shorter Oxford English
 Dictionary, Third Edition, defines the word
 "inexpedient" as meaning "not expedient;
 disadvantageous in the circumstances,
 unadvisable, impolitic". The same dictionary
 defines "expedient" inter alia as meaning
 "advantageous; fit, proper, or suitable to the
 circumstances of the case". Webster's Third
 New International Dictionary also defines the
 term "expedient" inter alia as meaning
 "characterized by suitability, practicality, and
 efficiency in achieving a particular end: fit,
 proper, or advantageous under the
 circumstances". 16, In the present case, the Chief of the
 Army Staff had, on the one hand, the finding of
 a general court-martial which had not been
 confirmed and the Chief of the Army was of
 the opinion that the further retention of the
 respondent in the service was undesirable and,
 on the other hand, there were the above three
 High Court decisions and the point was not
 concluded by a definitive pronouncement of
 this Court. In such circumstances, to order a
 fresh trial by a court-martial could certainly
 be said to be both inexpedient and
 impracticable and the only expedient and
 practicable course, therefore, open to the
 Chief of the Army Staff would be to take action
 against the respondent under Rule 14, which
 he did. The action of the Army Staff in issuing
 the impugned notice, was, therefore, neither
 without jurisdiction nor unwarranted in law." (Emphasis supplied) 35. The same question was again considered by the Supreme Court
 in Harjeet Singh Sandhu (supra), wherein it was held as under: 36. The learned Additional Solicitor-General
 cited a few examples wherein trial by Court
 Martial may be rendered "impracticable", to
 wit: xxx 39. In Illustrations (iii) and (iv) also, in our
 opinion, the exercise of power under Section
 19 read with Rule 14 cannot be excluded. The
 finding and sentence of the Court Martial are
 ineffective unless confirmed by the confirming
 authority. The Act does not contemplate that
 the finding and sentence of a Court Martial
 must necessarily be confirmed merely because
 they have been returned for the second time. Section 165 vests power in the Central
 Government, the Chief of the Army Staff and
 any prescribed officer, as the case may be, to
 annul the proceedings of any Court Martial if
 the same are found to be illegal or unjust. The
 delinquent officer cannot be allowed to escape
 the consequences of his misconduct solely
 because court-martial proceedings have been
 adjudged illegal or unjust for the second time.
 The power under Section 19 read with Rule 14
 shall be available to be exercised in such a
 case though in an individual case the exercise
 of power may be vitiated as an abuse of power.
 The option to have a delinquent officer being
 tried by a Court Martial having been so
 exercised and finding as to guilt and sentence
 having been returned for or against the
 delinquent officer by the Court Martial for the
 second time, on just and legal trial, ordinarily Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 19 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 such finding and sentence should be
 acceptable so as to be confirmed. Power to
 annul the proceedings cannot be exercised
 repeatedly on the sole ground that the finding
 or the sentence does not meet the expectation
 of the confirming authority. Refusal to confirm
 is a power to be exercised, like all other
 powers to take administrative decision,
 reasonably and fairly and not by whim,
 caprice or obstinacy. Exercising power under Section 19 read with Rule 14 consequent upon
 court-martial proceedings being annulled for
 the second time because of having been found
 to be illegal or unjust, the exercise would not
 suffer from lack of jurisdiction though it may
 be vitiated on the ground of "inexpediency"
 within the meaning of Rule 14(2) or on the
 ground of abuse of power or colourable
 exercise of power in a given case. xxx 42. Exercise of power under Section 19 read
 with Rule 14 is open to judicial review on
 well-settled parameters of administrative law
 governing judicial review of administrative
 action such as when the exercise of power is
 shown to have been vitiated by mala fides or is
 found to be based wholly on extraneous and/or
 irrelevant grounds or is found to be a clear
 case of colourable exercise of/or abuse of
 power or what is sometimes called fraud on
 power i.e. where the power is exercised for
 achieving an oblique end. The truth or
 correctness or the adequacy of the material
 available before the authority exercising the
 power cannot be revalued or weighed by the
 court while exercising power of judicial
 review. Even if some of the material, on which
 the action is taken is found to be irrelevant, the
 court would still not interfere so long as there
 is some relevant material available on which
 the action can be sustained. The court would
 presume the validity of the exercise of power
 but shall not hesitate to interfere if the
 invalidity or unconstitutionality is clearly
 demonstrated. If two views are possible, the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 20 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 court shall not interfere by substituting its own
 satisfaction or opinion for the satisfaction or
 opinion of the authority exercising the power." (Emphasis supplied) 36. From the above, it is apparent that in Harjeet Singh Sandhu (supra), one of the illustrations/situations that was considered by the
 Supreme Court was that if any finding or sentence of a Court Martial
 requiring confirmation had been ordered to be revised by an order of
 the Confirming Authority, but despite such revision was not
 confirmed once again, and as a subsequent revision of the finding or
 sentence was not contemplated by the provisions of the Army Act ,
 then whether recourse to Rule 14 of the Army Rules could be taken to
 terminate the personnel. The Supreme Court answered the same in the
 positive by holding that the exercise of power cannot be excluded in
 such a situation. It was held that such power shall be available to be
 exercised in such a case, though in an individual case, the exercise of
 such power may be vitiated as an abuse of power. The Supreme Court
 further held that ordinarily, the finding of the Court Martial should be
 acceptable so as to be confirmed and the power conferred under Section 19 of the Army Act, read with Rule 14 of the Army Rules,
 cannot be exercised solely on the ground that the finding or sentence
 awarded by the Court Martial does not meet the expectations of the
 Confirming Authority, however, this would not debar the exercise of
 power under Section 19 of the Army Act, read with Rule 14 of the
 Army Rules to terminate the services. 37. Following the above, this Court in S.S. Shekhavat (supra)
 summarised the law/principles applicable to a similar situation as is
 before us in the present petition, as under: 38. In the said case, this Court having emphasized that the exercise
 of power under Section 19 of the Army Act, read with Rule 14 of the
 Army Rules, only because the findings or the sentence does not meet
 the expectations of the Confirming Authority, would be an abuse of
 the power, in the facts of that case, found that there were sufficient
 reasons for the Competent Authority to have exercised its powers
 under Section 19 of the Army Act read with Rule 14 of the Army
 Rules. 39. In Yacub Kispotta & Ors. (supra), this Court was, in fact,
 considering a case under the BSF Act and the Rules. The Court, taking
 note of the principles laid down by the Supreme Court, inter alia, in Harjeet Singh Sandhu (supra), found that in the facts of that case, the
 opinion reached by the Competent Authority holding the inquiry into
 the allegations against the delinquent personnel was not reasonably
 practicable, but was flawed. The Court was of the opinion that the
 resort to Rule 20 had been taken since there was no incriminating
 material against the personnel and perhaps because of the fear that the
 role of more senior officials would have come under scrutiny, given
 the extent of unpreparedness, possibly lack of intelligence, and the
 shortfall in ammunitions issued to the section. 40. In Sri. Amiya Ghosh (supra), the High Court of Calcutta, again
 following the principles of law laid down in Major Dharam Pal
 Kukrety (supra) and Harjeet Singh Sandhu (supra), found that the
 Confirming Authority did not give reasons for disagreeing with the
 findings of the GSFC and even the Show Cause Notice that was issued
 to the petitioner therein did not intelligibly and sufficiently define the
 material against the petitioner therein. The Court also considered the
 allegations against the petitioner therein and found the order passed by
 the Confirming Authority to not be worthy of acceptance. 41. From the above judgments, therefore, it is apparent that where
 the Conforming Authority does not agree with the findings or sentence
 awarded by the GSFC, even on revision, it may decide not to confirm
 the same. In such an event, and in a given set of facts, the Competent
 Authority may exercise the power vested in it under Section 19 of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 25 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 Army Act read with Rule 14 of the Army Rules (herein Section 10 of
 the BSF Act, read with Rule 20(4)(a) of the BSF Rules) to still dismiss
 the Officer. In such an event, the trial of the officer by a Security
 Force Court would be inexpedient or impracticable. Though the
 exercise of this power will not be questioned on lack of jurisdiction,
 the same will, however, will be tested on the general principles of
 administrative law. 42. Applying the above principles of law to the facts of the present
 case, it is first to be noted that the allegation against the petitioner is
 that he was found in possession of Rs.2,54,000/- while being at the
 border outpost (BOP). It is the case of the respondents that the said
 money was ill-gotten by giving patronage to smuggling activities. On
 the other hand, it is the case of the petitioner that the petitioner had
 taken the said money from one of his family friends (Sh. Madan Lal
 Grover-DW-2), and his brother-in-law (Sh. Sudhir Sandhu-DW-1)
 for the treatment of his father, who was admitted in a hospital in
 Delhi. The petitioner further claimed that as his father recovered and
 the said money was not required to be used, by mistake he carried it
 with himself to his place of posting because he was in a hurry to rejoin
 as he had already exceeded his period of leave by two days. 43. The GSFC, in its findings dated 16.01.2019, dismissed the First
 Charge against the petitioner of being in possession of the above
 amount, which was disproportionate to his known source of income,
 by primarily finding fault in the search and seizure procedure followed
 by the BOO. The GSFC also found favour in the petitioner‟s case that
 the money was borrowed by him from DW-1 and DW-2. 44. The Confirming Authority, however, vide Order dated
 10.09.2019, remitted the findings to the GSFC for a revision,
 observing as under: The Accused also admitted that said amount
 was found in his possession when checked by
 BOO. It is further in evidence that the Accused
 during the search confessed before PO of
 BOO, Sh. Ganesh Kumar, 2IC (Now Comdt)
 (PW-15) that the said amount was received
 from the smugglers and he also paid
 Rs.1,46,000/- and Rs. 90,000/- on two
 occasions to Unit 2IC, Sh.Kuldeep Singh. The Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 27 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 accused has not rebutted the same during
 cross-examination of PW-15 & PW-9. The
 Court has totally discarded evidence led by the
 Prosecution and believed the version of the
 Accused that he had borrowed the said amount
 from his family friend Sh.Madan Lal Grover
 (DW-2) when his father was admitted in
 hospital at Panipat (Haryana) and, by mistake,
 he brought that amount with him on expiry of
 leave and kept in his suitcase at BOP
 Srimantapur. c) The Court further believed that when
 surprise check was carried out, the Accused
 voluntarily disclosed possession of said
 amount to PW-15. However, as per the
 statement of Sh.Vikas Singh, DC (PW-7),
 Sh.Narender Pal Singh, DC (PW-9) and
 Sh.Ganesh Kumar, Comdt (PW-15), the
 Accused disclosed having possession of said
 amount only after the search in respect of
 other BOP personnel had been completed and
 when search of his room was about to be
 conducted and it became inevitable to hide
 such facts. As such, the Court has not
 appropriately appreciated the evidence
 available on record. d) The Court believed the version of the
 Accused that he had borrowed said amount
 from his family friend, Sh.Madan Lal Grover
 (DW-2) when his father was admitted in
 hospital at Panipat (Haryana). However, in
 Exhibit-'DD4' prepared immediately after the
 search, it was written by the Accused himself
 stating that "mere paas se 2,54,000 Rs mile" Surprisingly, the Court did not appreciate that
 keeping with himself such huge amount in cash
 till his next leave which was not certain
 considering the commitments of the Force and
 not sending said amount through Bank or
 depositing the same in any of his three Bank
 Accounts appear unconvincing being not a
 natural course of action expected from the
 Accused particularly when he was Coy Comdr
 of a Coy deployed in very sensitive and
 smuggling prone area and SOP prohibited
 possession of cash amount beyond certain
 limit. As such the Court has erred in
 appreciating these issues properly. f) It further appear unconvincing that the
 Accused borrowed Rs.2,00,000/- in cash from
 DW-2 for treatment of his father when he had
 more than said amount available in his Bank
 Accounts and he had ample opportunity to
 withdraw the same from his Bank Account
 during his leave. Further, it is also
 unconvincing that the Accused borrowed
 money from DW-2 for treatment of his father
 on 29.01.2016, but he did not care to return
 said amount to DW-2, despite the fact that he
 had sufficient money in his Bank Account and
 moreover, the said amount was no longer
 required for treatment of his father as his
 condition had improved. Furthermore, as per
 the statement of Sh.Madan Lal Grover (DW- 2), when he called the Accused on 15th march
 2016 and told him that his Cheque was lying
 with him and that whether he should send it Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 29 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 back to his home to which the accused inter
 alia replied that he should encash the Cheque,
 However, this testimony of DW-2 appears an
 after thought to cover up the source of
 unaccounted amount recovered from the
 possession of the Accused, In normal course, if
 the amount is a borrowed one, it would not be
 kept with him by the Accused till his next leave
 and would be paid back at once. g) The Court believed the version of the
 Accused that the amount in question was
 borrowed by Accused from his family friend,
 Sh.Madan Lal Grover (DW-2) due to critical
 health condition of his father on 29/01/2016
 when his father was admitted in hospital at
 Panipat (Haryana). However, no medical
 document has been produced by the Accused
 to the effect that on 29.01.2016, the health
 condition of his father was so serious
 requiring his shifting to Delhi for treatment. h) Further, on 29/01/2016, the Accused
 stated to have borrowed Rs.2 Lakhs in cash
 from his family friend Sh.Madan Lal Grover
 (DW-2) and later, on 07.02.2016, his brother-
 in-law Sh.Sudhir Sandhu (DW-1) also gave
 him Rs.55,000/- in the hospital saying that the
 Accused may require the said amount. Surprisingly, the Accused never informed DW-
 1 that he had already borrowed RS.2 lakhs
 from DW-2 and the condition of his father had
 also improved and he was not required to be
 shifted to Delhi as advised by the treating
 doctors and thus, the money was not required,
 but the Accused quietly accepted the money
 from DW-1 which shows his malafide to cover
 up the matter by adducing such evidence.
 Besides that as per the evidence of Sh.Sudhir
 Sandhu (DW-1), he daily visited his father-in-
 law in Hospital while going and coming back
 from his Office and he had also stayed during
 night in Hospital. However, it is surprising
 that the accused has not asked any monetary
 help from the DW-1, who is his close relative Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 30 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 instead he borrowed money from DW-2, his
 family friend. Further, the Accused never
 disclosed the facts regarding borrowing of
 said amount from DW-1 & DW-2 to the
 authorities though mandated by Conduct
 Rules. The Court has not considered these
 evidence on record appropriately i) The Court further believed the statement
 of CT Sashi Kant Yadav (DW-3) who stated
 that when he went to the room of the Accused
 at the BOP for obtaining his signature on
 Handing/Taking Over vouchers, he saw few
 bundles of Currency Notes lying on his bed.
 Surprisingly, the Accused never examined
 DW-3 at any stage of Disciplinary
 Proceedings i.e. COI & ROE prior to his
 deposition before the GSFC and no
 satisfactory explanation for said omission has
 been offered by him before the Court. j) The Court also believed the statement of
 SI (Now Insp) Alok Kumar (DW-4) who stated
 that on 13th Feb' 2016 around 1600 hrs when
 he met the Accused outside the office of
 Adjutant at Bn HQ and enquired about the
 health of his father, the Accused received a
 call on his Mobile phone and from his Tele-
 Conversation, DW-4 could make out that the
 Accused was talking with his family and
 appeared to be jittery. DW-4 overheard the
 Accused saying "mere pass yeh galti se aagaya
 hai jab hum aayeinge to letehuye aayeinge".
 Further when the Accused had hung up the
 call and on being asked by DW-4, he told DW-
 4 that "dhai lakh rupaye, cash thi, wo galti se
 mere sath aagaya, usike bare me pooch rahi
 thi". DW-4 further admitted that he had
 deposed above facts for the first time before
 the Court as he was asked by the Accused not
 to disclose such facts before anybody as it may
 be required subsequently. The explanation for
 not disclosing above material facts at any
 stage of Disciplinary Proceeding prior to Trial
 of the Accused by GSFC does not appear Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 31 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 convincing in the overall facts and
 circumstance of the case. The Accused was
 afforded full opportunity to defend him at all
 stages of Disc Proceedings including making a
 Statement, Cross Examination of witnesses
 and calling of witnesses in his defence if he so
 desired. However, he never led any such
 evidence to rebut the allegations of serious
 magnitude involving „Moral Turpitude‟ raised
 against him. Had he done so, there was
 possibility of dismissal of charge after Record
 of Evidence (ROE) itself under Rule 51-A of
 SSF Rules, 1969 whereas non- utilization of
 such opportunity by the accused remains
 unexplained raising doubt in his version of
 incident. k) As per the statement of HC/Min Bibil V
 D (PW-16), the accused submitted a Bill for
 re-imbursement of expenses incurred in
 treatment of his father as per which the period
 of treatment was mentioned as 23.01.2016 to
 10.02.2016 and the total amount claimed by
 the accused was Rs.2,50,350/-. Further, in his
 unsworn statement before the Court, the
 Accused admitted that his father was
 discharged from Hospital on 10.02.2016.
 Further, as per the statement of DW-1, he had
 not made any payment of the Hospital Bills
 from the date of admission till discharge and
 he did not know who paid the Hospital Bills
 before discharge of his father-in-law, As such,
 the Court has failed to appreciate that during
 the relevant time, an amount of Rs.2,50,350/-
 had been paid for the Medical Expenses of
 father of the Accused, who is dependent on the
 Accused obviously on his discharge from
 Hospital whereas the Accused has not
 produced any evidence to prove the source of
 said amount. l) The evidence further shows
 inconsistencies in defence version of story
 about the source of amount recovered from the
 possession of accused. The Court has believed Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 32 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 the Prosecution version that the salary of
 accused was his only known Source of Income.
 Further, evidence shows that during the
 relevant period, the same was being
 transferred to his MOD balance and he has
 not made any substantial withdrawals from
 any of his three Bank Accounts during the
 relevant period so as to meet the expense for
 treatment of his father. Further, the Accused
 was not having any other receipt of Movable
 or Immovable Property during the relevant
 period, as reflected in Movable/Immovable
 property Returns filed by him during relevant
 period. Further, his parents are shown to have
 been dependent upon him and evidence shows
 that he has claimed Re-imbursement of
 Rs.2,50,350/-(Rupees Two Lakh Fifty
 Thousand Three Hundred and Fifty only)
 stated to have been spent on the treatment of
 his father. However, no evidence has been led
 by the accused as to how the Medical
 Expenses on treatment of his father were met
 when, on the one hand, he led evidence in his
 defence that the amount of Rs.2,55,000/- was
 taken by him from DW-1 & DW-2 for
 treatment of his father and, on the other hand,
 evidence shows that he claimed Medical Re-
 imbursement of Rs.2,50,350/- (Rupees Two
 Lakh Fifty Thousand Three Hundred and Fifty
 only) spent on the treatment of his father. The
 Court has not considered the above
 inconsistencies in the version of the defence
 while deliberating on Finding on this charge. m) That the Court has not appreciated that,
 Sh.Madan Lal Grover (DW-2) could not
 satisfactorily explain the procedure of
 maintaining Accounts for such transactions
 though the Business Firm which is a joint Firm
 in the name of his brothers and he incurred
 liability for such transactions of personal
 nature to other partners which has not been
 satisfactorily explained by him casting doubt
 in defence story." 45. The GSFC re-considered the matter, however, reiterated its
 findings of „Not Guilty‟ on the First Charge. It again believed the case
 of the petitioner that Rs.2,00,000/- had been taken by him from
 Mr.Madan Lal Grover (DW-2), a family friend of the petitioner, while
 Rs. 50,000/- had been taken by him from his brother-in-law (DW-1).
 The GSFC further held that the petitioner had himself handed over the
 above amount to the BOO, and the assertion of the BOO that the same
 had been recovered was not believed. The GSFC, however, did not
 take an adverse or favourable view as to who paid the bills for the
 treatment of the petitioner‟s father. 46. The findings of the GSFC on revision were not confirmed by
 the Confirming Authority, by way of a cryptic order, which is
 reproduced hereinunder: 47. Though the above is a cryptic order, the Show Cause Notice
 that was issued to the petitioner asking him to show cause as to why
 his services be not terminated, gave detailed reasons for not
 confirming the findings of the GSFC, as under: Further, the encashment of cheque of Rs. Two
 lakh by DW-2 on 16th March‟ 2016, which he
 stated to have taken from you in lieu of cash,
 appears to be an afterthought as the recovery
 of huge amount had by then been effected on Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 36 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 27th Feb' 2016 from you. It is also seen that
 immediately after recovery of amount from
 your possession, you had given it in writing
 (Exhibit-DD4) that, 'mere paas se 2,54,000 Rs
 mile' and making no mention therein that the
 said amount was brought by you from your
 home. However, later after reaching SHQ BSF
 Gokulnagar, you improved upon the same,
 stating that "the money recovered from you
 was your own money which you had brought
 from your home" (Exhibit- 'GG'), which is
 afterthought and moreover, even therein you
 made no mention of this amount being a
 borrowed amount from DW-l & DW-2. You
 also examined CT/GD Shashi Kant Yadav
 (DW-3) & Inspr Alok Kumar Ravikar (DW-4)
 to impress upon the Court that they were in
 knowledge of the fact that you had brought Rs.
 2.50 lakh from home. DW-3 stated that he had
 seen the bundles of cash on your bed at BOP
 Srimantapur on 14/02/2016. But both these
 witnesses are found to be unreliable having
 made improvements in their statements on
 material facts against their statements in
 SCOI/ROE. DW-3 admitted that he did not
 disclose the above facts during investigation at
 your directions to conceal the same which
 appears to be flimsy. The statement of DW-4 is
 marred with number of inconsistencies as
 despite being aware of the impending case
 against you, he did not disclose the so called
 facts before any other staff officer of his
 Battalion but stated to have made a mention of
 sharing the above said facts only with
 Sh.Satyapal Singh, DC (PW-14) who has
 denied the same. Furthermore, the Medical
 Re-Imbursement Bills to the tune of
 Rs.2,50,350/- were claimed by you for the
 medical expenses incurred upon the treatment
 of your father Sh.Raghubir Singh from
 23/01/2016 to 10/02/2016 who was dependent
 upon you. You projected that you borrowed
 Rs.2,55,000/- from DW-1 & DW-2 for the
 treatment of your father but you did not submit
 any evidence as to how the medical expenses Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 37 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 on the treatment of your father were incurred
 when you brought the amount borrowed for
 this purpose with you at BOP Srimantapur on
 arrival from Leave and no amount has been
 shown to have been withdrawn by you from
 your bank accounts. Besides this, Sh.Ganesh
 Kumar (PW-15) has deposed that you made
 extra-judicial confession before him
 immediately after the recovery of Rs.2,54,000/-
 (Rupees Two Lakh Fifty Four Thousand only)
 from your possession at BOP Srimantapur
 wherein you had voluntarily confessed your
 guilt before him mentioning that .the amount
 recovered was ill-gotten money obtained from
 smuggling. Further, your confession regarding
 the illegal source of money to PW-15 was also
 corroborated by Sh.Narendra Pal Singh (PW- 9). PW-15 & PW-9 are neutral persons,
 having no previous enmity towards you and
 their presence at the place of incident was
 merely co-incidental due to their detailment in
 BOO by DIG, SHQ, Gokulnagar." 48. The petitioner submitted a detailed representation against the
 Show Cause Notice, which has been rejected by the Competent
 Authority, resulting in the passing of the dismissal order. The
 Competent Authority has disbelieved the assertion of the petitioner
 that the amount recovered from him had been taken by him from DW-
 1 and DW-2. It has observed that the petitioner had not disclosed
 possession of such large amount of cash with him to any Competent
 Authority prior to the surprise check by the BOO. In the surprise
 check, cash amounts were recovered not only from the petitioner but
 also from other personnel as well. The BOO had been ordered
 specifically because there was an information of the personnel at
 Srimantapur, giving patronage to smuggling activity by accepting Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 38 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44 bribes. The Competent Authority also found that, though the father of
 the petitioner had been admitted to a hospital, and that the petitioner
 had made a claim for reimbursement of the amount spent on his
 father‟s treatment, however, the petitioner did not produce any
 evidence as to how the medical expenses on the treatment of his father
 were met by him. The Competent Authority also observed that the
 petitioner confessed to the possession of the above amount only when
 he found that there was no escape from the recovery of the same. 49. As is noted hereinabove, this Court, in exercise of its powers of
 judicial review cannot act as an Appellate Authority to the view
 confirmed by the Competent Authority; it is only where the exercise
 of power is vitiated by mala fide, or is found to be based upon
 irrelevant consideration, or is found to be a clear case of extraneous
 circumstances being taken into account, or is otherwise found to be
 arbitrary, or as colourable exercise of power, that the Court may
 interfere. In the present case, the petitioner has been unable to meet
 the said test. 50. In view of the above, we find no merit in the present petition.
 The same is accordingly, dismissed. NAVIN CHAWLA, J

 SHALINDER KAUR, J
 JANUARY 15, 2025/Arya/sg/SJ
 Click here to check corrigendum, if any Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 13248/2022 Page 39 of 39 By:SUNIL Signing Date:16.01.2025 11:08:44