1. Accused Ms. Kanimozhi Karunanithi and Sharad Kumar vide

above referred applications under Section 439 Cr.P.C. are seeking bail

in case FIR No.RC-DAI-2009-A-0045 P.S. ACB, CBI New Delhi. 2. Briefly stated, facts relevant for the above bail applications are

that on 21.10.2009, the Central Bureau of Investigation, Anti

Corruption Branch, New Delhi registered a case No.RC DAI-2009-A-

0045 on the allegations of criminal conspiracy and criminal misconduct

against unknown officials of Department of Telecommunications, Govt.

of India, unknown private persons/companies and others under Section

120-B IPC, 13(2) read with 13(a)(d) of P.C. Act , in respect of allotment

of Letters of Intent, Unified Access Services (UAS) Licences and 2G

spectrum by the Department of Telecommunications. 3. First charge sheet was filed on 02.04.2011 in the court of Special

Judge, Patiala House, New Delhi against 12 accused persons including

M/s. Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd. and its directors Shahid Balwa and Vinod

Goenka for the offences punishable under Section 120-B , 420 , 468 , 471 of IPC and Section 109 read with 420 IPC , as also under Section 13(2) read with 13(1)(d) of P.C. Act, 1988 . 4. A supplementary charge sheet was filed in the above mentioned

case on 25.04.2011 against five accused persons including the Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 2 of 37 petitioners for offences under Section 120B IPC read with Section 7 / 11 and 12 of P.C. Act, 1988. 5. Briefly put, case of the prosecution is that earlier to accused

A.Raja taking over as Minister for Communications and Information

Technology, the departmental policy of DOT regarding grant of Unified

Access Services Licence (UASL) was first come first serve subject to

eligibility and after the issue of Letter of Intent (LOI) to the successful

applicant, he was given sufficient time to comply with the conditions of

LOI and deposit of the licence fee. 6. In order to achieve the end of conspiracy, accused R.K. Chandolia

on 24th September 2007 inquired from the concerned officer of "Access

Services Cell" of Department of Telecommunication if the applications

of Unitech Group of Companies for grant of UAS Licences were received

and instructed that after the receipt of their applications, no further

applications be accepted. PW Avdesh Kumar Srivastava, DDG(AS-I)

told R.K. Chandolia that it may not be proper/fair to abruptly refuse to

receive the applications. A note dated 24th September, 2007 in this

regard was initiated by the Department on instructions of R.K.

Chandolia. Accused A.Raja approved the note and ordered issue of

press note informing public about the cut off date 01.10.2007 for

acceptance of the applications for UASL. A Press Release was

accordingly published in Newspapers on 25th September, 2007. Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 3 of 37 Though hundreds of applications were received after 25th September,

2007, those applications were not considered for issue of UAS Licence. 7. Charge sheet also disclose that as per the existing policy, the

allottees of Letters of Intent (LOI) were given sufficient time to comply

with the conditions of LOI. The licences were issued on the basis of

seniority of the date of applications and after the issue of UAS

Licences, the licensee could apply for allocation of spectrum. 8. On 2nd November, 2007, Director (AS-I) DOT initiated a note

seeking for issue of Letters of Intent as per the existing policy of first

come first served. The then Telecom Secretary returned the file with

the noting, "action may be initiated after orders of MOC & IT are

obtained on the issue. He had expressed his desire to discuss this

further." A fresh note was put up by Director (AS-I) of DOT on 7th

November, 2007 highlighting the existing policy and pointing out that a

policy statement in that regard was made in Rajya Sabha on 23rd

August, 2007. A draft Letter of Intent was also put up along with the

note for approval of the Minister. Accused A.Raja approved the note,

but deliberately replaced Para 3 of the draft LOI with the following: "the

date of payment of entry fee would be priority date for signing the

licence agreement. If the date of payment of entry fee in more than

one case is the same, then the licence will be first signed with the

applicant whose application was received earlier." Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 4 of 37 9. It is alleged that on 23rd November, 2007, the Licensing Finance

Branch of DOT objected to change made in LOI by accused A.Raja and

suggested that it appears logical to keep the date of applications as

date of priority for issue of licence provided the applicant is able to

establish that he is eligible on the date of application and is also

eligible when the LOI is issued. This note was endorsed by

Member(Finance), Telecom Commission and Secretary(Telecom) also

suggesting the revision of entry fee for new licences in line with

revision of fee for dual technology spectrum as suggested by Ministry

of Finance in its letter. Accused A.Raja, however, ignored the advice to

keep the date of application as date of priority for issue of licence or to

review and enhance the licence fee and this resulted in a loss to the

tune of almost of 30000 crores to the State exchequer. 10. That while putting up a note dated 7th January, 2008 for

processing UASL application received upto 25th September, 2007,

Director (AS-I) reiterated the existing policy and noted, "sequence of

granting of LOIs/UAS Licence has been maintained till now to the date

of respective application for a particular service area." In his note

DDG(AS-I) raised the issue of eligibility and clarified that the eligibility

on the date of application needs to be considered. When the matter

was put up before accused Siddhartha Behura, he attached a draft

press release for the approval of the Minister. Accused A.Raja, MOC &

IT asked Secretary (Telecom) to show the draft press release to the

Solicitor General and seek his legal opinion. Accused Siddhartha Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 5 of 37 Behura personally took the file to the Solicitor General of India, who

advised "I have seen the matter. Issues regarding new LOIs are not

before any court. What is proposed is fair and reasonable. The press

release makes for transparency. This seems to be in order." However,

after obtaining the advice of Solicitor General, accused A.Raja in

conspiracy with accused Siddhartha Behura dishonestly deleted the

last paragraphs of the approved press release shown to the Solicitor

General which recorded, "However, if more than one applicant

complies with LOI condition on the same date, the inter-se seniority

would be decided by the date of application" and approved the

amended draft of press release. This was done to portray as if the

amended draft had the approval of the Solicitor General. 11. On 10th January, 2008, the Press Release was put on the website

of DOT calling upon the applicants to collect the LOIs from Siddhartha

Behura at 3:30 pm. Four counters were created for collection of LOIs.

The LOIs were, however, distributed in a disorderly manner and not as

per the seniority of applicants. This resulted in shuffling of priority of

the applicants as against the seniority of date of application and

provided them opportunity to deposit entry fee prior to the applicants

who had applied for licence before them. It is alleged that in aforesaid

manner, the accused public servants managed to disturb the seniority

of applicants as per the date of application and caused undue

advantage to the accused Sanjay Chandra as also Shahid Balwa and

Vinod Goenka as also their companies, namely, Unitech Group of Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 6 of 37 Companies (since merged in Unitech Wireless (Tamil Nadu) Ltd. and

M/s. Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd. respectively, who managed to get UAS

Licences which they otherwise would not have got, but for dishonest

change of policy of first come first serve by the public servants. 12. The first charge sheet reveals that Reliance ADA Group of

Companies was interested in obtaining UAS Licences for 13 circles

which they were not eligible for in view of Clause 8 of UASL policy

guidelines. In order to circumvent the aforesaid ineligibility clause and

to cheat the Department, accused Gautam Doshi, Hari Nair and

Surendra Pipara in furtherance of the conspiracy created and

structured a new company M/s Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd which applied

for UASL Licence on 2nd March, 2007. The above referred accused

persons has structured M/s Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd. in such a manner

that its equity holding was shown as 90.1% with M/s Tiger Traders Pvt.

Ltd. and 9.9% with M/s Reliance Telecom Ltd. The investigation into

holding structures of M/s Tiger Traders Pvt. Ltd. revealed that aforesaid

company was actually funded by the Group Companies of M/s Reliance

ADA Group. It was revealed that `3 crores utilized by M/s Tiger Traders

Pvt. Ltd. in January 2007 and `95.51 crores used by said company in

March, 2007 to subscribe to majority equity shares of M/s Swan

Telecom Pvt. Ltd. was arranged through Group Companies of Reliance

ADA Group. Besides that, a sum of `992 crores which constituted the

bulk of networth of M/s Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd. was also provided by

Reliance Telecom Ltd. under the garb of subscribing to preferential Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 7 of 37 shares to M/s Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd. Those preferential shares were

purchased by Reliance Telecom Ltd. at abnormally high premium of

`999/- per share of face value `1/- although M/s Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd.

had no business history at that time. Aforesaid amount was

immediately returned by M/s Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd to M/s Reliance

Communications Ltd. on the pretext of advance against a purchase

order. These transactions were carried out on the instruction of

Gautam Doshi and Hari Nair. 13. Charge sheet also disclose that in order to achieve the end of

conspiracy, above three accused persons created two other companies

M/s Zebra Consultancy Services Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Parrot Consultants

Pvt. Ltd. The equity holding of aforesaid two companies and M/s Tiger

Traders Pvt. Ltd. was structured by Gautam Doshi, Hari Nair and

Surendra Pipara insuch a manner that those companies were cross-

holding each other in interlocking structure during the period w.e.f.

March, 2006 to 4th April, 2007. This interlocking was done in such a

manner that 50% equity shares of M/s Zebra Consultancy Services Pvt.

Ltd. and M/s Parrot Consultants Pvt. were purchased by M/s Tiger

Traders Pvt. Ltd., 50% equity shares of Parrot Consultants Pvt. Ltd. and

Tiger Traders Pvt. Ltd. were purchased by M/s Zebra Consultancy

Services Pvt. Ltd. and 50% equity shares of Zebra Consultancy Services

Pvt. Ltd. and Tiger Traders Pvt. Ltd. was purchased by M/s Parrot

Consultants Pvt. Ltd. This arrangement ensured that neither of those

three companies was absolute owner of any company and this Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 8 of 37 practically left the control of all the three companies in the hands of

the Directors i.e. the petitioners. In order to achieve the end of

conspiracy, Hari Nair in league with Gautam Doshi and Surendra Pipara

falsified the records of Board Meetings of Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd. and

Tiger Traders Pvt. Ltd to show that M/s. Tiger Traders Pvt. Ltd. was held

by India Telecom Infrastructures Fund of Ashok Wadhwa Group and

also to show the appointment of Ashok Wadhwa as Director of those

companies and his presence during the meetings. 14. Before the LOI could be granted, M/s Reliance Communications

Ltd., a group of Reliance ADA Group got GSM spectrum in those 13

circles pursuant to its applications under dual technology policy. Thus,

the application dated 2nd March, 2007 moved through M/s Swan

Telecom Pvt. Ltd was of no use to Reliance ADA Group. Accordingly,

Reliance ADA Group withdrew its holding from M/s Swan Telecom Pvt.

Ltd. and the accused Gautam Doshi, Hari Nair and Surendra Pipara

transferred the control of M/s Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd. to the co-accused

Shahid Balwa and Vinod Goenka in order to facilitate them to cheat

DOT by getting UAS Licence in the name of M/s Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd.

which company till 18th October, 2007 was ineligible for UAS Licence in

view of Clause 8 of policy guideline. 15. The original charge sheet also disclose that accused Shahid

Balwa and Vinod Goenka through their company M/s. D.B. Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 9 of 37 Infrastructures Pvt. Ltd., a company of Dynamic Balwa Group took over

majority stake in Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd. on 18.10.2007. 16. It is alleged in the supplementary charge sheet that pursuant to

the criminal conspiracy, accused A.Raja, the then MOC&IT and accused

petitioners Sharad Kumar and Kanimozhi Karunanithi were stake

holders and/or directors of M/s. Kalaignar T.V. Pvt. Ltd. accepted and

received an illegal gratification of `200 crores in M/s. Kalaignar T.V. Pvt.

Ltd. from the co-accused Shahid Balwa and Vinod Goenka from the

account of M/s. D.B. Group Companies in the year 2008-09 as a reward

for undue favours shown by accused A.Raja in connivance of other

public servants to M/s. Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd. in the matter of

allocation of UAS Licences and valuable scarce spectrum. 17. It is further alleged that M/s. Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd. received a

sum of `3228 crores from M/s. Etisalat Mauritius Ltd. and `381 crores

from M/s. Genex Exim Ventures Pvt. Ltd. on 17.12.2008 as a

consideration of offloading the equity shares. Immediately, thereafter

with effect from 23.12.2008 till 11.08.2008, accused Shahid Balwa and

Vinod Goenka transferred a sum of `200 crores to M/s. Kalaignar T.V.

Pvt. Ltd. through a circuit route via M/s. Kusegaon Fruits & Vegetables

Pvt. Ltd. and M/s. Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd. This was allegedly done with

a view to conceal the transfer of money from D.B. Realty Group to M/s.

Kalaignar T.V. Pvt. Ltd. The fund transfer from M/s. Dynamix Realty, a Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 10 of 37 firm belonging to the D.B. Realty Group, took place in following

 manner: Accused Sharad Kumar (A-16) signed the same on behalf of M/s

Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd. and its promoters. Investigation has also

revealed that accused Karim Morani, Asif Balwa and Rajiv B. Agarwal

arranged these funds from M/s Dynamix Realty, a partnership firm of

DB group companies managed and controlled by Shahid Balwa (A-4) &

Vinod Goenka (A-5) and facilitated the transfer of these funds in a

dubious manner to M/s Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd. 19. Investigation has revealed that for all the aforesaid transactions

amounting to `200 Crores between M/s Dynamix Realty, M/s Kusegaon

Fruits & Vegetables Pvt. Ltd., M/s Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd.,and M/s

Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd., claimed to be in nature of loan, no valid

agreement was signed between any of the parties and no collaterals/

securities were ensured to secure the alleged loan amounts. Later,

after registration of the criminal case vide FIR no. RC DAI 2009 A 0045

dated 21.10.2009 by CBI, and on taking various steps in investigation

of the case, M/s Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd offered some securities to M/s Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 12 of 37 Kusegaon Fruits & Vegetables Pvt. Ltd against the above referred

unsecured loan of ` 200 crores. 20. Investigation has also revealed that in terms of the Share

Subscription and Shareholders' Agreement dated 19.12.2008, claimed

by accused persons to have been signed between M/s Cineyug Films

Pvt. Ltd., M/s Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd. and promoters, it was required that

the funds transferred till 31.3.2009 be treated as loan if no agreement

could be entered regarding the price of equity of M/s Kalaignar TV Pvt.

Ltd. However, investigation has revealed that though no such

agreement could admittedly be reached between M/s Cineyug Films

Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd., still the additional amounts of `

175 crores were paid by M/s Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd. to M/s Kalaignar TV

Pvt. Ltd. Sh. Sharad Kumar signed the agreement dated 19.12.2008, as

Director of the company and for and behalf of the promoters of the

company including present two petitioners. 21. Later, after registration of the criminal case vide FIR no. RC DAI

2009 A 0045 dated 21.10.2009 by CBI, and on taking various steps in

investigation of the case, entire equity holding of M/s Kalaignar TV Pvt.

Ltd. was pledged, vide an Agreement to Pledge dated 30.12.2009, to

M/s Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd as security for the due payment/repayment

of the purported loan amount under the Loan agreement and as

security for performance of the obligations of the company set out

under Loan agreement. Accused Sharad Kumar (A-16) signed the said Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 13 of 37 agreement on behalf of the company and for and behalf of the

promoters of the company including present two petitioners. 22. During investigation accused persons belonging to M/s Kalaignar

TV Pvt. Ltd. have claimed that they got their company valued in June,

2009 by a consultant and it was valued at around ` 846 crore. Since, by

this valuation the proposed stake to be given to M/s Cineyug Films Pvt.

Ltd. in lieu of ` 200 Crores fell below 20%, M/s Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd

purportedly decided to call back their investment in M/s Kalaignar TV

Pvt. Ltd. It is also claimed by the accused persons and the companies

concerned that till such time of repayment, an interest @ 10% per

annum was decided to be charged on the amount paid so far. However,

investigation has revealed that before this valuation was purportedly

done in June, 2009, and any agreement regarding valuation of equity

could be reached between the two parties, as claimed, an amount of `

50 Crores had already been transferred to M/s Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd.

Contrary to the claim of the accused persons that no agreement could

be reached about the valuation of equity of M/s Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd.

to be subscribed by M/s Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd., additional amount of `

150 Crores was transferred in July-August, 2009, after such purported

agreement failed. The aforesaid transactions related to purported

investment by M/s Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd. in M/s Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd.,

without any due diligence, or provision of any collateral, defies

common sense and normal business practices. Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 14 of 37 23. Investigation has also revealed that when accused A Raja (A-1)

was contacted by CBI for his examination scheduled on 24.12.2010,

M/s Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd started refunding the amount of ` 200 crores

to M/s Dynamix Realty, through M/s Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd. and M/s

Kusegaon Fruits & Vegetables Pvt. Ltd. A substantial part of the

amount was refunded by it just before and after 02.02.2011, when

accused A Raja (A-1) was arrested by CBI in this case. The details of

such transfers by M/s Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd. to M/s Cineyug Films Pvt.

Ltd. are as under:- 24. Investigation has also revealed that, in order to conceal the

dubious nature of the transaction, M/s Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd.

transferred amounts shown as interest to M/s Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd. as

per following details:- 25. Investigation revealed that M/s Cineyug media & Entertainment

Pvt. Ltd, also, in furtherance of the design to facilitate concealing the

dubious nature of entire transactions, paid back the amount of

` 200 crores to M/s Kusegaon Fruits & Vegetables Pvt. Ltd. as per

following details:- 26. Investigation has also revealed that, in order to cover up the

dubious nature of the transaction of money transfer, M/s Cineyug Films

Pvt. Ltd. transferred amounts described as interest to M/s Kusegaon

Realty Pvt. Ltd. as per following details:- 27. Investigation has revealed that M/s Kusegaon Fruits & Vegetables

Pvt. Ltd, in turn, paid back ` 200 crores, with interest @ 7.5% per

annum to M/s Dynamix Realty. The details are as under:- 28. Investigation has revealed that in June 2007, accused Sharad

Kumar (A-16), along with other promoters, incorporated M/s Kalaignar

TV Pvt. Ltd. after they left Sun TV network. Accused Sharad Kumar (A- 16) was a promoter & director or M/s Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd. and is a

stakeholder of the company to the tune of 20%. He is a director and

CEO of the company. He has attended/ chaired all the board meetings

of the company wherein the decisions regarding the aforesaid

transactions were taken by the company. He has also signed all the

agreements purportedly signed with M/s Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd., and

other relevant documents in this regard, not only on behalf of the Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 17 of 37 company but also on behalf of himself and other directors/

shareholders of the company. He had also been visiting accused A Raja

(A-1) in connection with pursuing various pending works relating to M/s

Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd. 29. Investigation has revealed that in June 2007, accused Ms.

Kanimozhi Karunanithi (A-17), along with other promoters, incorporated

M/s Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd. after they left Sun TV Network. She had also

been in regular touch with accused A Raja (A-1) regarding launching of

Kalaignar TV channels and other pending works of M/s Kalaignar TV

Pvt. Ltd. Accused Ms. Kanimozhi Karunanithi (A-17) was also an initial

director of the company and resigned only for the reason that her

clearance from MHA was pending and could take time and delay the

matter of launching the Kalaignar TV channels. Accused A. Raja (A-1)

was further pursuing the cause of M/s Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd. not only

for getting registration of the company from Ministry of Information &

Broadcasting but also for getting it in the Tata Sky bouquet.

Investigation has also revealed that accused Ms. Kanimozhi Karunanithi

(A-17) was a stakeholder of M/s Kalaignar TV Pvt. Ltd. to the tune of

20% equity and was an active brain behind its operations. She was also

widely covered by the Kalaignar Seithigal (News) channel. She also

actively pursued with the intermediaries and DMK Hqrs. The matter

regarding reappointment of accused A Raja (A-1) as Minister of

Communications & Information Technology in 2009. PW-103, Sh.

Ashirvadam Achary has stated the above facts showing association of Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 18 of 37 accused Sharad Kumar and Kanizmozhi with accused A. Raja regarding

the issues of Kalaignar TV. 30. Learned Shri Altaf Ahmed, Sr. Advocate appearing for the

petitioners submitted that the petitioners were not arrested during

investigation and they appeared in the court of Special Judge pursuant

to the summons issued under Section 204 Cr.P.C. Thus, they were not

in custody. Learned Sr. counsel further submitted that the liberty of a

person is sacrosanct and no court has inherent power to remand an

accused to custody, as such, the power has to be exercised in

accordance with law. It is submitted that relevant provisions in the Code of Criminal Procedure dealing with remand of accused are Section

167 and 309 Cr.P.C. Section 167 of the Code of Criminal Procedure

deals with the situation during investigation and once the charge sheet

has been filed, only provision under which an accused can be

remanded to custody is Section 309(2) Cr.P.C. Learned counsel

submitted that a plain reading of Section 309 Cr.P.C. would show that

while adjourning a case under Section 309 Cr.P.C., the court can

remand an accused to custody only if he is already in custody. In the

instant case, since the petitioners were not in custody, the trial court

has committed an error by rejecting their applications and remanding

them to judicial custody. 31. I do not find any merit in this contention. The question as to

when a person in custody within the meaning of Section 439 Cr.P.C. Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 19 of 37 came up before Supreme Court in Niranjan Singh and Anr. Vs.

Prabhakar Rajaram Kharote and Ors. , AIR 1980 SC 785: 1980

Crl.L.J. 426, wherein the Supreme Court answered the question as

under: 32. In similar vein, the Supreme Court in Nirmal Jeet Kaur Vs.

State of M.P. , (2004)7 SCC 558 observed thus: 33. It is apparent from the above that the Supreme Court has

ascribed a wide meaning to the word "custody" and it has to be

understood in the context of the setting in which it is used and the

provisions contained in Section 437 Cr.P.C. which relates to the Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 22 of 37 jurisdiction of the Magistrate to admit an accused on bail under certain

circumstances which can be characterised as "in custody" in generic

sense. Anybody within the control of the court is said to be in custody.

What is relevant is whether the accused is in control of the court and

not whether he is physically in custody of the court. Section 437 (1) Cr.P.C. provides when any person accused of the commission of a non-

bailable offence is arrested or detained without warrants by an officer

in-charge of a Police Station or appears or is brought before a court

other than the High Court or Court of Sessions, he may be released on

bail subject to the restrictions detailed in Section 437(1)(i) and (ii) Cr.P.C . The word "or appears" used in Section 437(1) Cr.P.C. signifies

that on appearance of a person accused of non-bailable, the Magistrate

is required to consider whether to grant or refuse bail to him/her. In

case the bail is refused to such person, then the natural corollary is

that he has to be taken into physical custody. Therefore, it is obvious

that the moment a person accused of non-bailable offence appears in

the court pursuant to the summons, he is within the control of the court

till his bail application is decided, as such he is in custody of the court.

In the instant case, learned Special Judge after hearing the parties

dismissed the request of the petitioners to be released on furnishing

personal bond with or without sureties. The moment their request was

rejected, their physical custody automatically vested with the court. As

such, the order of learned Special Judge remanding the petitioners to Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 23 of 37 judicial custody while adjourning the matter under Section 309 Cr.P.C.

cannot be faulted. 34. Learned Shri Altaf Ahmed, Sr. Advocate further submitted that

the petitioners appeared before the Special Judge pursuant to the

summons issued under Section 204 Cr.P.C. Therefore, in view of Section 87 and 88 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, they are entitled

to be set free on furnishing bond for appearance with our without

sureties to the satisfaction of the court. 35. The interpretation sought to be given by the petitioner to Section

87 and 88 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is misconceived and

based on incorrect reading of the said provisions of law which are

reproduced thus: ................... .................... "88. Power to take bond for appearance.---When any
 person for whose appearance or arrest the officer presiding in
 any Court is empowered to issue a summons or warrant, is
 present in such court, such officer may require such person to
 execute a bond, with or without sureties, for his appearance Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 24 of 37 in such court, or any other court to which the case may be
 transferred for trial" 37. Bare reading of Section 87 and 88 makes it clear that these

provisions set out the parameters and scope of powers of a court to

issue the processes for appearance. Section 87 provides that in cases

in which the court is empowered to issue summons only for

appearance of any person, the court may in exceptional circumstances

detailed in Section 87(a) and (b) after recording its reasons in writing

issue warrants for arrest of such person. This has nothing to do with

the judicial function of a Magistrate or a court to deal with the issue of

grant or refusal of bail to a person accused of non-bailable offence. 38. Similarly, on reading of Section 88 Cr.P.C. it is obvious that Section 88 Cr.P.C. empowers the court to seek bond for appearance

from any person present in the court in exercise of its judicial

discretion. The Section also provides that aforesaid power is not

unrestricted and it can be exercised only against such persons for

whose appearance or arrest the court is empowered to issue summons

or warrants. The words used in the Section are "may require such

person to execute a bond" and any person present in the court. The Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 25 of 37 user of word "may" signifies that Section 88 Cr.P.C. is not mandatory

and it is a matter of judicial discretion of the court. The word "any

person" signifies that the power of the court defined under Section 88 Cr.P.C. is not accused specific only, but it can be exercised against

other category of persons such as the witness whose presence the

court may deem necessary for the purpose of inquiry or trial. Careful

reading of Section 88 Cr.P.C. makes it evident that it is a general

provision defining the power of the court, but it does not provide how

and in what manner this discretionary power is to be exercised.

Petitioners are accused of having committed non-bailable offences.

Therefore, their case falls within Section 437 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure which is the specific provision dealing with grant of bail to

an accused in cases of non-bailable offences. Thus, in my considered

view, Section 87 and 88 Cr.P.C. only defines the parameters of power

of the court in certain situation and those provisions have no bearing

on the right of a person accused of non-bailable offence to bail. For

that purpose, the relevant provision is Section 437 Cr.P.C. and the

plea of the accused for his release on bail is required to be considered

by the Court on the basis of well established principles i.e. the nature

of the accusation; the nature of the evidence collected in support of

accusation; possibility of the accused interfering with the process of

justice and the possibility of the accused fleeing away from

justice. Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 26 of 37 39. Next contention on behalf of the petitioners is that the Special

Judge after taking cognizance of the case in exercise of the power to

issue process under section 204 CrPC preferred to issue summons for

appearance to the petitioners instead of warrants. This imply that the

Ld. Special Judge on consideration of the charge sheet found it to be

case in which the detention of the petitioners was not necessary. Thus

it is contended that the refusal of bail to the petitioners after their

appearance in the court amounts to review of the earlier position taken

by the Ld. Special Judge, which is not permissible in law as the

subordinate court has no power to review its order. Referring to the

Judgment of Kerala High Court in Sreekumar Vs. State of Kerala ,

(2008) 3 KLT 748, Ld. Counsel submitted that if warrant for appearance

were issued against the petitioners, they certainly would have been

entitled to move Superior court for Anticipatory bail. Ld. Special Judge

by exercising the discretion under section 204 CrPC to issue summons

to the petitioners have led the petitioners to believe that they can

sefely appear in the court without any fear of detention as such

rejection of the bail to the petitioners is unfair. 40. I am not convinced with the above submission. Perusal of Section

204(1)(b) would show that it confers discretion upon the court taking

cognizance of a warrant trial case to either issue warrants or summons

for appearance of the accused. The use of this discretion is only to

procure the presence of the accused for trial. It has nothing to do with Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 27 of 37 the grant or refusal of bail to the accused. For that purpose, only

relevant Section is 437 Cr.P.C . in accordance with which the court is

supposed to exercise its judicial discretion to grant or refuse the bail.

Just because the court taking cognizance of a warrant trial case has

opted to issue summons for appearance instead of warrants, it cannot

be assumed that he had applied its mind to the facts of the case from

the point of view of grant or refusal of bail to the accused. In Sreekumar Vs. State of Kerala ,(supra), it was observed thus: Having chosen to exercise the discretion under S. 204 CrPC in favour of the
 petitioner and having issued only a summons to the accused, it appears to
 me to be heartless, insensitive and harsh for any court to remand an accused
 person who has come to court on the invitation extended to him by the
 court by issuing a summons. That procedure is shockingly unreasonable and
 should not be pursued by any court. Having exercised the discretion under S.
 204 CrPC to issue only a summons and having led the accused by such
 conduct to believe that he can safely appear before court on invitation, it
 would be impermissible for any court thereafter to turn turtle and remand
 the accused to custody. Issue of summons by exercise of the discretion
 under S. 204 CrPC does firmly and eloquently convey that the accused person
 on appearance shall not be detained unnecessarily if he is wiling and
 prepared to offer bail. The courts will have to be careful at the state of
 exercising the discretion under S. 204 CrPC and cannot take parties by
 surprise when they appear before court in response to an innocuous
 summons issued by the court. This must be so whether the offence is triable
 by a Magistrate or not and whether the offence is bailable or not". Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 28 of 37 41. I find myself unable to agree with the view taken in the aforesaid

judgment. Issue of process under Section 204 Cr.P.C. is meant for

ensuring the presence of the accused in the court. Issuing summons

under Section 204 Cr.P.C., by no means, is an assurance that the

accused on appearance in the court shall be granted bail nor it

amounts to misleading the accused and preventing him from seeking

his legal remedy by moving an application for anticipatory bail in the

superior court. Otherwise also, now the petitioners are present before

High Court under Section 439 Cr.P.C. seeking bail and their applications

are required to be dealt with in accordance with law on consideration

of well settled principles for deciding a bail application. 42. Before adverting to the submissions of the petitioners on merits,

it would be appropriate to have a look on the law of bail. 43. In Gudikanti Narasimhulu Vs. Public Prosecutor , (1978) 1

SCC 240, Supreme Court has highlighted the importance of personal

liberty of an accused. In the said judgment , the Supreme Court has

emphasized on creating a balance between the right and liberty

guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and the

interest of justice as well as the society which is sought to be protected

by Section 437 Cr.P.C., wherein it is, inter alia, observed thus: 44. In State Vs. Jaspal Singh Gill , AIR 1984 SC 1503, the Supreme

Court expressed the view that the court before granting bail in cases

involving non-bailable offences, particularly where the trial has not yet

commenced should take into consideration various factors such as the

nature and seriousness of the offence, character of the evidence,

circumstances peculiar to the accused, a reasonable possibility of the

accused not presenting himself during trial and reasonable

apprehension of witnesses being tampered with and the larger interest

of the society or the State. 45. In CBI, Hyderabad Vs. B. Ramaraju , 2011 Crl.L. J. 301,

Supreme Court cancelled the bail of accused Ramaraja purely on the

basis of the enormity and gravity of the offence observing thus: 46. In a recent judgment in the matter of Prasanta Kumar Sarkar

Vs. Ashis Chatterjee & Anr. , 2010(11) Scale 408, Supreme Court

observed thus: 47. The legal position which emerges from the aforesaid judgments is

that the important factors for consideration while deciding the

applications for grant of bail, the court must take into account various

factors, namely, nature and gravity of accusation; nature of evidence

against the accused; severity of punishment in the event of conviction;

danger of accused fleeing from justice; the danger of accused trying to Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 31 of 37 influence the witnesses or thwarting the course of justice and the

character and antecedents of the accused etc. And the court will

decide on refusal or grant of bail on cumulative consideration of the

existence or non-existence of aforesaid factors. 48. On merits, it is contended that the petitioners are innocent and

they have nothing to do with the alleged conspiracy between public

servants and the private persons/companies in the matter of allotment

of UAS Licence/Spectrum to M/s. Swan Telecom Private Limited. It is

further submitted that purely innocuous inter-corporate financial

transactions are being projected in the charge sheet as transfer of the

bribe money to the petitioners and their co-accused A.Raja through

dubious money transfer transactions. Learned senior counsel further

contended that even if for the sake of argument, allegations of

prosecution are taken to be correct, then also, the role of the

petitioners is distinct from the other co-accused persons, who are

directly involved in the alleged conspiracy, particularly when, the

petitioners are not the beneficiaries of conspiracy as neither the

petitioners nor any of the company with which they are associated

have received UAS Licence/Spectrum. It is further contended on

behalf of the petitioners that they were neither arrested during

investigation nor there is any allegation against them that they have

interfered with the process of investigation. They have appeared

pursuant to the summons. Therefore, there is no possibility of the

petitioners interfering with the investigation process or influencing the Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 32 of 37 witnesses or absconding from law. Thus, learned counsel for the

petitioners has strongly urged for admitting them on bail. 49. Bail applications are vehemently opposed by learned Special

Prosecutor. He has referred to the charge sheet and the supporting

evidence and submitted that there is sufficient prima facie evidence on

record to show the complicity of the petitioners in the conspiracy to

confer undue advantage upon M/s. Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd. by the

public servants including accused A.Raja in the matter of grant of UAS

Licence/spectrum to the said company for which the company was not

eligible as per the policy guidelines. Learned Special PP further

submitted that there is sufficient prima facie evidence on record to

show that the petitioners are the recipients of the illegal gratification of

`200 crores for the aforesaid undue favour shown to M/s. Swan

Telecom Pvt. Ltd. which amount was transferred by M/s. Dynamix

Realty, a partnership firm belonging to DB Realty Group Company to

the account of M/s. Kalaignar T.V. Pvt. Ltd. owned by the petitioners

and the step mother of petitioner Kanimozhi Karunanithi. Factual

submissions of learned Special PP are not reproduced in detail for the

sake of brevity. Learned Special PP contended that merely because

the petitioners were not arrested during investigation and they

appeared in the court pursuant to the summons, they do not become

entitle to bail because the gravity of the accusation and the nature of

evidence collected during investigation is also one important

component to be considered for grant or refusal of bail. Learned Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 33 of 37 Special PP submitted submitted that allegation against the petitioners

are grave and the investigation is not yet complete as such it would not

be appropriate to release the petitioners on bail at this stage as they

are likely to interfere in investigation and tamper with the witnesses. 50. I have considered the rival submissions and perused the record.

It is well settled that at the stage of consideration of bail application,

the court is required to take prima facie view of the evidence collected

during investigation and it is not supposed to undertake an intricate

exercise of scrutinising the evidence with a view to find out its

truthfulness or otherwise. 51. On care perusal of the charge sheet, following factors have come

to the fore: (a) that M/s. Kalaignar T.V. Pvt. Ltd. is a closely owned

company in which there three shareholders. 20% stake each is held by

the petitioners and balance 60% stake in the company is held by Ms.

Dayalu Ammal, step-mother of the petitioner Kanimozhi Karunanithi; (b) that petitioner Kanimozhi Karunanithi and the co-accused A.Raja

are important functionaries of same political party; (c) that co-accused

A.Raja took over charge as Minister for Communications and

Information Technology in May, 2007 and the petitioners parted ways

with M/s. Sun T.V. Network in June, 2007 and promoted their own

company M/s. Kalaignar T.V. Pvt. Ltd.; (d) that accused A.Raja had

close associations with the petitioners and he helped their company to

get registration with Information and Technology Department and also Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 34 of 37 to get included in the Bouquet of Sky T.V.; (e) that M/s. Swan Telecom

Pvt. Ltd. which is owned by DB Realty Group of Companies offloaded

its equity to M/s. ETISALAT Mauritius Ltd. and M/s. Genex Exim

Ventures Pvt. Ltd. and in consideration received `3228 crores and 380

crores respectively on 17.12.2010; (f) that the transfer of the money

from DB Realty Group through its group companies Dynamix Realty,

M/s. Eversmile Construction Company Pvt. Ltd. and M/s. Conwood

Construction Developers Pvt. Ltd. started with effect from 23.12.2008

and it continued till August, 2009; (g) that the bribe money was

transferred to M/s. Kalaignar T.V. Pvt. Ltd. in instalments through a

circuitous route i.e. via M/s. Kusegaon Fruits & Vegetables Pvt. Ltd. and

M/s. Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd.; (h) that `200 crores was transferred from

accounts of above referred DB Realty Group Companies to the account

of M/s. Kalaignar T.V. Pvt. Ltd. through a circuitous route i.e. from D.B.

Realty Group Companies money was first transferred to the account of

M/s. Kusegaon Furits & Vegetables Pvt. Ltd. which company in turn

transferred the amount to M/s. Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd. and from that

company the money reached in the account of M/s. Kalaignar T.V. Pvt.

Ltd.; (i) that aforesaid money transfers from one company to the other

and the other was done either on the same dates or in close proximity

of dates as disclosed in the money transfer chart noted in Para 17 of

this order; (j) that once the scam came to the light and FIR was

registered, the reverse trail of money started via same route of

companies; (k) that the reverse money trail started only after co- Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 35 of 37 accused A.Raja was contacted by the CBI for his examination

scheduled on 24.12.2010. Even in this reverse money trail, the dates

of transfer of money from one company to other and to the other are

either the same or in very close proximity; (l) that the investigation

revealed that no contemporaneous documents pertaining to the

transfer of money was prepared at the time of transfer of money from

DB Realty Group Companies to M/s. Kusegaon Fruits & Vegetables Pvt.

Ltd. and from M/s. Kusegaon Fruits & Vegetables Pvt. Ltd. to M/s.

Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd. and from M/s. Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd. to M/s.

Kalaignar T.V. Pvt. Ltd. It is submitted by learned Special PP that

during investigation photocopies of shares subscription and

shareholders agreement and agreement to pledge between M/s.

Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd. and M/s. Kalaignar T.V. Pvt. Ltd. were produced

by the accused persons but they have deliberately not produced the

original agreements because the date of purchase of stamp papers

used would have revealed that these agreements have been

subsequently prepared to create evidence in defence. 52. Above facts and circumstances, prima facie show the complicity

of the petitioners in the conspiracy and their having received illegal

gratification of `200 crores in the account of the company controlled by

them, namely M/s. Kalaignar T.V. Pvt. Ltd. The proximity of dates on

which the money got transferred via circuitous route involving DB

Realty Group Companies, M/s. Kusegaon Fruits & Vegetables Pvt. Ltd.

and M/s. Cineyug Films Pvt. Ltd. as also the reverse trail of money, Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 36 of 37 prima facie, cannot be a coincidence and this gives rise to a prima

facie involvement that aforesaid methodology was adopted by the

petitioners and their co-accused persons with a view to conceal the

trail of money from DB Realty Group which owns M/s. Swan Telecom

Pvt. Ltd. and M/s. Unitech Group of Companies in the matter of grant

of UAS Licences and spectrum have caused a loss of about `30,000

crores to the State exchequer. The petitioners are in control of M/s.

Kalaignar T.V. Pvt. Ltd., as such they are in position of power to

influence the witnesses, particularly the employees of their company.

They have got strong political connections. Petitioner Kanimozhi

Karunanithi belongs to the same political party to which accused A.Raja

belongs and the said party is sharing power in the Central Government.

Thus, considering the financial and political clout of the petitioners, a

possibility cannot be ruled out that if the petitioners are freed at this

stage, they would interfere with the investigation or try to influence the

witnesses. Thus, at this stage, I do not deem it appropriate to admit

the petitioners on bail. 53. Bail applications are dismissed accordingly. 54. Nothing contained in this order shall be treated as a finding on

the merits of the case. (AJIT BHARIHOKE)
 JUDGE
JUNE 08, 2011
pst Bail Applications No. 723/2011 & 724/2011 Page 37 of 37