IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MP (M) No. 2058 of 2025
 Reserved on: 27.08.2025

 . Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge. The petitioner has filed the present petition for

 seeking pre-arrest bail in F.I.R. No.53 of 2023, dated 2.10.2023,

 registered for the commission of offences punishable under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code ( IPC ) at

 Police Station Ramshehar, District Solan, H.P. 2. It has been asserted that the petitioner is working as a

 Veterinary Pharmacist. He is suffering from various ailments. He apprehends his arrest. The petitioner is a victim of a larger 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2025 21:29:00 :::CIS 2 conspiracy involving fraudulent study centres operating in the

 Baddi area during the relevant period. The petitioner enrolled

 . himself in one such centre, which was operating openly at that

 time. He filled the required forms, paid the prescribed fee and

 appeared in the examination. He had no knowledge or any

 reason to suspect that the certificate issued to him was fake. The

 F.I.R. was registered after a considerable delay. The petitioner is

 ready and willing to abide by all the terms and conditions which

 the Court may impose. Hence, it was prayed that the present

 petition be allowed and the petitioner be released on pre-arrest

 bail. 3. The petition is opposed by filing a status report

 asserting that the informant made a complaint to the police that

 the documents regarding the petitioner's educational

 qualifications were verified, and it was found that the certificate

 produced by the petitioner was not genuine. The police

 registered the F.I.R. and conducted an investigation. The police

 seized the record and found that the petitioner was appointed as

 Beldar/Water carrier on 27.04.1994. He served at different

 places. He filed an application on 06.06.2009 to submit his Class

 12th certificate. The petitioner underwent training as a ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2025 21:29:00 :::CIS 3 Veterinary Pharmacist and was promoted to the post of

 Veterinary Pharmacist. He was posted at the Veterinary

 . Dispensary at Galot. The documents submitted by the petitioner

 were checked, and it was stated by the National Institute of Open

 Schooling that Roll No. 060xxxxxx002 was issued to Amit

 Sharma, who had passed the examination in the year 2007. The

 certificate Sl. No. xxx452 was not issued by the National Institute

 of Open Schooling. The petitioner had submitted fake documents

 to get the promotion. The petitioner is to be interrogated. The

 involvement of other persons in forging the certificate is to be

 ascertained. Hence, the status report. 4. I have heard Mr. Gaurav Thakur, learned vice counsel

 representing the petitioner and Mr. Jitender K.Sharma, learned

 Additional Advocate General, for the respondent/State. 5. Mr. Gaurav Thakur, learned vice counsel representing

 the petitioner, submitted that the petitioner is innocent and he

 was falsely implicated. He had taken admission in a school at

 Nalagarh, District Solan, H.P. He deposited the fee, appeared in

 the examination and was issued a certificate. He had no reason to

 believe that the certificate was fake. He is a victim of the ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2025 21:29:00 :::CIS 4 circumstances. Hence, he prayed that the present petition be

 allowed and the petitioner be released on interim bail. . 6. Mr. Jitender K. Sharma, learned Additional Advocate

 General, for the respondent/State, submitted that the petitioner

 had produced a forged mark-sheet stated to have been issued by

 the National Institute of Open Schooling; however, the institute

 stated, after the verification, that the marksheet was issued to

 one Amit Kumar and not to the petitioner. The mark sheet

 produced by the petitioner was fake. The involvement of the

 other persons is to be ascertained. Therefore, he prayed that the

 present petition be dismissed. 7. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

 made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 8. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in P.

 Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement , (2019) 9 SCC 24: 9.

 This position was reiterated in Srikant Upadhyay v. State of Bihar, 2024 SCC OnLine SC 282, wherein it was held: 10. It was held in Pratibha Manchanda v. State of Haryana ,

 . (2023) 8 SCC 181: 2023 SCC OnLine SC 785 that the Courts should

 balance individual rights, public interest and fair investigation

 while considering an application for pre-arrest bail. It was

 observed: 11. In the present case, the mark sheet produced by the

 petitioner was sent to the National Institute of Open Schooling,

 which stated that the roll number mentioned in the mark sheet

 belonged to one Amit Sharma and not to the petitioner. The

 serial number of the mark sheet was never issued to any person. This report, prima facie, shows that the documents produced by

 the petitioner were fake. 12. It was submitted that the petitioner is a victim of

 circumstances. He had appeared in the examination after

 . attending an open school at Nalagarh. He deposited the fee, and

 a mark sheet was issued to him. He had no reason to suspect the

 genuineness of the certificate issued to him. This submission

 cannot be accepted. The petitioner has not placed any document

 on record to show that he had taken admission in any school. He

 did not mention the name of the school. He has not even

 submitted any fee receipt to show that he had taken admission in

 the school or submitted any receipt of examination fee. Thus, the

 plea taken by the petitioner that he is a victim of circumstances

 because had had taken admission in the legitimate school but

 was cheated by being provided a forged certificate, prima facie,

 appears to be doubtful. 13. The petitioner submitted the documents to the

 department and was promoted to Veterinary Pharmacist. He

 was not entitled to the promotion on his original qualification. Thus, it is duly established on record that the petitioner would

 not have secured the post of Veterinary Pharmacist if he had not

 produced the fake certificate. 14. The police have asserted that custodial interrogation

 of the petitioner is necessary to determine the involvement of

 . the other persons. This plea has substance. The petitioner could

 not have forged the document by himself, and he would have

 required the assistance of others. Therefore, the plea taken by

 the State that interrogation of the petitioner is necessary has

 been accepted as correct. It was laid down by the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in State Versus Anil Sharma (1997) 7 SCC 187 that

 where custodial interrogation is required, pre-arrest bail should

 not be granted. It was observed: - 15. A similar view was taken by the Delhi High Court in Mukesh Khurana v. State (NCT of Delhi ), 2022 SCC OnLine Del 1032,

 . wherein it was observed: - 16. It was held in P Chidambaram (supra) that the grant

 of pre-arrest bail may hamper the investigations. It was

 observed: 17. Therefore, the petitioner cannot be released on pre- arrest bail at this stage. Hence, the present petition fails, and the

 same is dismissed. 18. The observations made heretofore shall remain

 confined to the disposal of the petition and will have no bearing,

 . whatsoever, on the merits of the case. (Rakesh Kainthla)

 Judge
 02nd September 2025.