- Heard. 2. Rule. Rule made returnable forthwith. Heard finally by

consent of the parties. 2 14-apl-371-19j (copy) (corrected).odt 3. By this application, the applicant invokes the inherent

jurisdiction of this Court under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure ( Cr.P.C .) for quashing the First Information Report (FIR) No.

32/2019 registered at Police Station, Hiwarkhed, Tah. Telhara, Dist.

Akola for the offences punishable under Sections 306 , 385 , 420 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code ( IPC ) and charge-sheet no. 65/2022. 4. The facts, which lead to filing of the present application

are stated thus: 5. The notices were issued to the non-applicants. Learned

APP appears for non-applicant no. 1/State and file its reply opposing

the application. Non-applicant no. 2, though was served with notice,

not filed his reply. 6 It is submitted by the counsel appearing on behalf of the

applicant that the applicant has not abetted the deceased to commit

suicide. The class room was not clean, therefore, the applicant being

administrator as headmaster gave understanding to the deceased. The

deceased was suffering from some mental deceased. Just because the

applicant insulted the deceased in front of the student, it can not be

termed as abatement to suicide note. He further submitted that the

accused used to remain absent. He had taken various loans. He was in

distress, therefore he committed suicide. According to learned

advocate for the applicant, no case is made out against the applicant.

Therefore the proceeding against the applicant be quashed. 4 14-apl-371-19j (copy) (corrected).odt 7. Learned App on other hand submitted that the deceased

was harassed by the applicant. Even he insulted the deceased in the

class-room in front of the student. There are suicide notes written by

the deceased which clearly spell the harassment and extortion done by

the applicant. He submitted that due to continuous harassment, the

deceased committed suicide. Accordingly to him no case is made out

for quashing of the proceeding. 8. In order to appreciate the contentions raised by learned

counsel for the applicant, as well as learned APP for non-applicant no.

1/State, it would be necessary to refer to Sections 107 and 306 of the

IPC, which read as under:- First.--Instigates any person to do that thing; or
 Secondly.--Engages with one or more other person or persons
 in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal
 omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in
 order to the doing of that thing; or
 Thirdly.--Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the
 doing of that thing. Explanation 1.--A person who, by wilful misrepresentation, or
 by wilful concealment of a material fact which he is bound to
 disclose, voluntarily causes or procures, or attempts to cause or
 procure, a thing to be done, is said to instigate the doing of that
 thing. Explanation 2.--Whoever, either prior to or at the time of the
 commission of an act, does anything in order to facilitate the
 commission of that act, and thereby facilitates the commission
 thereof, is said to aid the doing of that act. 306. Abetment of suicide.--If any person commits suicide,
 whoever abets the commission of such suicide, shall be punished
 with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
 extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine. 5 14-apl-371-19j (copy) (corrected).odt 9. The consideration and analysis of the above quoted

provisions has attracted attention of the High Courts and the Supreme

Court, the Courts have in various cases, elucidated the essential

ingredients for attracting the offence of abetment of suicide. Before

proceeding to deal with the facts of the present cases, it would be

apposite to mention here the principles, which can be culled out from

judgments of the Apex Court and this Court. 10.. In the case of Swamy Prahalddas Vs. State of M.P. and

another, [1995 Supp (3) SCC 438], the Supreme Court was

considering a situation where the accused was alleged to have

remarked to the deceased 'to go and die' and thereafter, the deceased

committed suicide. Even in such a situation the Supreme Court held

that the allegations, even if they were to be accepted as it is, did not

prima facie reflect mens rea on the part of the accused and it was also

found that the deceased did have time to weigh the pros and cons of

the act by which he ultimately ended his life. It was held that the

accused need not face the charge in such a situation. 11. In the case of Sanju Alias Sanjay Singh Sengar Vs. State of

M.P. , [(2002) 5 SCC 371], the Supreme Court was considering a

situation where the deceased had left behind a suicide note, wherein it

was specifically stated that the accused was responsible for his death. 6 14-apl-371-19j (copy) (corrected).odt

In the said case, the Supreme Court considered the liability of the

accused to face investigation and prosecution under Section 306 of the

IPC, in the context of Section 107 thereof and it was held that the word

"instigate" denotes incitement or urging to do some drastic or

inadvisable action or to stimulate or incite, further holding that

presence of mens rea, therefore, was a necessary concomitant of

instigation. It was found that in the said case the alleged abusive words

were used by the accused against the deceased, two days prior to the

date when the deceased was found hanging. In these circumstances,

the Supreme Court found it fit to quash the criminal proceedings. 12. In the case of Madan Mohan Singh Vs. State of Gujarat

and another , [(2010) 8 SCC 628] , the accused was alleged to have

instigated his driver to commit suicide. There was a suicide note of 15

pages left behind by the deceased and the accused had approached the

High Court for quashing of the FIR and the criminal proceedings, but

his prayer was rejected, as consequence of which, the accused was

before the Supreme Court seeking relief. The Supreme Court applied Section 306 read with 107 of the IPC and found that there has to be

proximity between the alleged acts of the accused and the extreme

step taken by the deceased of committing suicide. It was held that the

allegations made and the material ought to be of a definite nature and

not imaginary or inferential. The Supreme Court went into the suicide
 7 14-apl-371-19j (copy) (corrected).odt

note of about 15 pages and found that the contents thereof expressed

the anguish of the deceased, who felt that his boss (the accused) had

wronged him, but it was noted that the contents fell short of depicting

an intentional act on the part of the accused for driving the deceased

to commit suicide. On this basis, the judgment of the High Court was

set aside and the FIR and criminal proceedings were quashed. 13. In the case of S.S. Chheena Vs. Vijay Kumar Mahajan and

another , [(2010) 12 SCC 190], the Supreme Court considered the facts

of the said case and after referring to Sections 107 and 306 of the IPC,

found that the High Court had erred in not quashing the criminal

proceedings. Reference was made to a series of judgments on the

aspect of abetment, particularly in the context of instigation. It was

observed in the said judgment as follows : - 8 14-apl-371-19j (copy) (corrected).odt 14. Similarly, in the case of M.Mohan Vs. State Represented by

the Deputy Superintendent of Police [(2011) 3 SCC 626] , the Supreme

Court held in the context of abetment as follows: - 15. Thus, in view of the above, It is crystallized from reading

of the provisions of Section 107 of the IPC that intention of the accused

to aid, instigate or abet to commit suicide is a requirement for the

offence punishable under Section 306 of the IPC. 16. We have perused the case dairy, the incident of asking the

deceased to clean the class room in front of the student is impropriety

and indecent one, but in our opinion in no way it can be seen as

abatement of the suicide by the the applicant. The applicant being

headmaster has to look entire administration of the school. The

statement of the wife of deceased shows that after the incident of

insult, when the deceased did not attend the school, the wife of

applicant went to the house of the deceased to console him and
 9 14-apl-371-19j (copy) (corrected).odt

thereafter he joint the duty. In our opinion the alleged act of the

applicant to clean the class room does not amount to to aid, instigate

or abet add to the deceased to commit suicide. 17. This takes us to the suicide notes written by the deceased.

The deceased has written almost five suicide notes. The crux of those

suicide notes is that the applicant used to harass and used to

pressurized to pay Rs. 10000/- per month from his salary for

arranging his substitute who would teach the student in place of the

deceased, as in case of other teacher Yogesh Omkar Kamble who was

unable to teach. 18. The documents filed by the applicant shows that the

deceased used to remain on leave frequently, on account of ill health of

the deceased. Statement of Yogesh Omkar Shows that due to his ill

health he could not teach the student therefore the accused no.2 used

to teach the student in place of him. For that he used to pay 6000/- the

accused no.2 from his salary. The one of the suicide notes shows that

the applicant was demanding Rs.10000/- from the deceased to hire

the services of accused no.2 to teach the student in better way in

place of the deceased. All these goes to show that the deceased who

used to remain absent frequently on account of his ill heath. The
 10 14-apl-371-19j (copy) (corrected).odt

applicant, who was headmaster with intend to help the deceased, who

frequently used to take leave and unable to teach student, and to

prevent suffereance to the children in the school, insisted for paying

Rs.10000/- to the accused no 2 a private person to teach the student in

place of him as in case of Yogesh Omkar Kamble. 19. Thus, even these allegation in suicide notes are taken at

their face value they do not show that intention of the applicant to

aid, instigate or abet the deceased to commit suicide. Even these

allegation does not amount to extortion or cheating for more that one

reason. Firstly, the there was no dishonest intention, rather the

applicant wants to help the deceased by providing substitute for him

by paying monthly amount and for that purpose he was allegedly

demanding the amount. Secondly there was no delivery of the

property, which is one of the necessary ingredient of offence of

extortion. 20. Though, in the present case, the entire happening depicts

an unhappy state of affairs, we do not find from either the allegations

in the FIR or from the suicide-note that the applicant abetted the

deceased to commit suicide. Prima facie, on the face value of the FIR

and the suicide-notes, if taken as they are, would not amount to
 11 14-apl-371-19j (copy) (corrected).odt

abatement as defined under Section 107 of the IPC. Therefore, no case

is made out, whatsoever, for the abatement of suicide or Extortion. 13. In case of State of Harayana Vs. Bhajan Lal [1992 Supp

(1) SCC 335], the Hon'ble Supreme Court has illustrated the category

of cases, wherein the extra-ordinary power under Article 226 or the

inherent powers under Section 482 of the CrPC can be exercised by the

High Court either to prevent abuse of the process of any court or

otherwise to secure the ends of justice, which are reproduced as

under:- 14. Since, no prima facie case is made out against the

 applicant, the FIR registered against the applicants for the

 offence punishable under Section 306 , 385 , 420 , 504 read with Section 34 of the IPC is an abuse of process of law hence, it is

 liable to be quashed and set aside. 15 For the reasons aforesaid, the Criminal Application is

 allowed. Charge Sheet no. 65/2022, pursuant to First Information

 Report (FIR) No. 32/2019 registered at Police Station, Hiwarkhed, Tah.

 Telhara, Dist. Akola for the offences punishable under Sections 306 , 385 , 420 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code ( IPC ) is quashed and set

 aside against the applicant.