1. These petitions under Section 439 Cr.P.C have been filed for grant of
bail to the petitioners in FIR No.70/2021 dated 23.04.2021, registered at
Police Station Crime Branch, Delhi for the offences punishable under Sections 420 / 188 / 120B / 34 IPC and Sections 3 / 7 of the Essential
Commodities Act and Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act. All the said
petitions have a common prayer, i.e. to enlarge the accused persons on
regular bail. 2. The facts, in brief, leading to the filing of the instant petitions are as
under: 3268/2021) was riding the scooty and accused - Mohan Kumar
 Jha was the pillion rider. The secret informer indicated to the BAIL APPLN. 1983/2021 etc. Page 3 of 13 ASI that they were the two persons who were unauthorizedly
 going to supply the Remdesivir injections near the Batra
 Hospital. On getting the signal, the ASI apprehended both the
 accused persons - Mohan Kumar Jha and Mohd. Shoiab Khan,
 and on frisking them a white colour bag was seized from the
 accused - Mohan Kumar Jha in which about 10 vials of
 Remdisivir injections were found. When asked as to where
 from they procured the Remdesivir injections and for the
 doctor's prescription, licence or any other bill that could
 substantiate its possession with them, both the accused were
 unable to provide any satisfactory answers. On further
 questioning, it was revealed that the accused persons had
 purchased these vials of Remdesivir to sell it on a higher
 margin to the desperate family members of patients ailing from
 COVID-19. Both the accused persons - Mohan Kumar Jha
 and Mohd. Shoiab Khan were arrested on 23.04.2021 and taken
 into custody, and their mobile phones were seized. b) During investigation, the CDRs of the arrested accused persons
 were analysed and a number of Whatsapp chats were seen
 which showed involvement of other accused persons, who were
 supplying presumably spurious and adulterated Remdesivir
 injections. Accused - Mohan Kumar Jha was remanded to
 police custody on 25.04.2021 where he revealed that he
 procured 150 Remdesivir injections at the cost of Rs.15,000/-
 per injection from accused - Pushkar Chandrakant Pakhale
 (petitioner in BAIL APPLN. 2497/2021). Accused - Mohd. Shoiab Khan was remanded to police custody on 25.04.2021
 and while in custody he revealed that he procured 150
 Remdesivir injections at the cost of Rs.15,000/- per injection
 from the accused - Pushkar Chandrakant Pakhale and one -
 Manish Goyal. On the revelations made by both the accused
 persons - Mohan Kumar Jha and Mohd. Shoiab Khan, the
 accused - Pushkar Chandrakant Pakhale was arrested and taken
 into custody on 25.04.2021. c) During the interrogation, the accused - Pushkar Chandrakant
 Pakhale disclosed that he purchased 200 Remdesivir injections
 at the cost of Rs.10,000/- per injection from one - Arun Sharma
 and Vinay Pathak on 21.04.2021, and purchased another 50
 Remdesivir injections at the cost of Rs.10,000/- per injection
 from one - Sadhna, a native of Haridwar, Uttrakhand, residing
 at Yamuna Vihar, New Delhi. The accused - Pushkar
 Chandrakant Pakhale was remanded for three (3) days' police
 custody, and during the remand period, he further disclosed the
 involvement of one - Vatan Kumar Saini. The interrogation of
 accused - Pushkar Chandrakant Pakhale led to the arrest of
 accused - Sadhna from Yamuna Vihar, New Delhi and in her
 possession about 160 Remdesivir injections were recovered and
 she was taken into police custody. During further investigation
 of accused - Pushkar Chandrakant Pakhale led to the arrest of
 accused - Vatan Kumar Saini from Haridwar, Uttrakhand and a
 recovery of empty vials, vials caps and batch coding machine BAIL APPLN. 1983/2021 etc. Page 5 of 13 appearing to be used for the production of fake/forged
 Remdesivir Injection labels. d) During the interrogation of accused - Vatan Kumar Saini, he
 revealed that he sourced several injections from the accused -
 Aditya Gautam (petitioner herein in BAIL APPLN. 3346/2021).
 It was also revealed during the interrogation that through via
 media, the accused - Aditya Gautam got in contact with the
 accused persons - Pushkar Chandrakant Pakhale and Sadhna. e) The accused - Aditya Gautam was arrested on 27.04.2021 near
 Meerut, U.P. and in his possession, 16 Remdesivir injections
 were recovered from his Scorpio car bearing No. UK 07 DT
 8388. On enquiring as to where he got the vials from, he neither
 could provide a satisfactory answer nor he could produce any
 legitimate document to justify the possession. f) Charge-sheet in the present case has been filed. The charge- sheet delineates the role of each of the petitioners present before
 this Court and states that there is ample evidence in the form of
 CDRs and WhatsApp chats against the petitioners to
 demonstrate the petitioners' involvement in supplying fake
 injections to the needy patients and their family members
 during the time of critical healthcare crisis. The charge-sheet
 also mentions of persons who had purchased the Remdesivir
 injections for their family members. The statements of those
 people have also been recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. The
 Charge-sheet states that the statements of victims match with
 the disclosure statements given by the petitioner. It is further BAIL APPLN. 1983/2021 etc. Page 6 of 13 mentioned in the charge-sheet that the statements are further
 corroborated by the CDRs of the petitioners and private
 WhatsApp chats between the petitioners. It is further mentioned
 in the Charge-sheet that the CDRs, the WhatsApp chats, the
 mobile phones of the petitioners and the DVRs have been sent
 to the Forensic Science Laboratory, Rohini and a report on that
 is awaited. It is also mentioned in the charge-sheet that
 investigation is being carried out with respect to the allegedly
 forged labels that were recovered from the possession of one of
 the accused and the samples of those labels have been sent to
 the company called Copivri - which manufactures the
 Remdesivir injections, to check the authenticity thereof. It is
 also mentioned in the charge-sheet that the reports from FSL
 and the report from Copivri are awaited. The charge-sheet sums
 up that the conspiracy was hatched by the petitioners to cheat
 the public at large at the height of a raging pandemic. The
 charge-sheet also states that the petitioners are part of a well
 organised syndicate whose motive was to loot people during a
 vulnerable time and was largely a crime against society and
 humanity. g) Accused Mohan Kumar Jha filed an application for grant of bail
 before the Trial Court which was rejected vide order dated
 29.04.2021. Thereafter he filed an application for bail before
 the Sessions Court which was rejected by the learned
 Additional Session Judge vide order dated 25.05.2021. h) Accused Mohd. Shoaib Khan filed an application for grant of
 bail before the Trial Court which was rejected vide order dated
 21.07.2021. i) Accused Pushkar Chandrakant Pakhale filed an application for
 grant of bail before the Trial Court which was rejected vide
 order dated 09.06.2021. j) Accused Aditya Gautam filed an application for grant of bail
 before the Trial Court which was rejected vide order dated
 13.08.2021. Thereafter he filed an application for bail before
 the Sessions Court which was rejected by the learned
 Additional Session Judge vide order dated 23.08.2021. k) The petitioners were not granted bail by the Subordinate Courts
 on the ground that the petitioners are accused of a very heinous
 offence and there is an apprehension of the petitioners' fleeing
 from justice. l) The petitioners have thereafter filed the instant petitions for
 grant of bail. 3. Heard the learned counsels appearing for the petitioners and learned
APP for the State and perused the material on record. 4. The learned counsels appearing for the petitioners submit that the
petitioners have been in judicial custody for the last seven months now and
the charge-sheet has been filed. They submit that no useful purpose would
be served in keeping the petitioners in prolonged judicial custody. It is
argued by the learned counsels for the petitioners that the material on record
has only been obtained through compulsive disclosure statements elicited
out of the petitioners by force and not by their own volition. The learned BAIL APPLN. 1983/2021 etc. Page 8 of 13 counsels for the petitioner submit that the material collected against the
petitioners is week. They further state that no independent witness was
present during the time of arrest of the petitioners and the guidelines of
arrest, as laid down by the Supreme Court in Arnesh Kumar v. State of
Bihar , (2014) 8 SCC 273, were not followed. They further submit that the
petitioners are mainly charged with the offences punishable under Sections
420 / 188 / 120B / 34 IPC and Sections 3 / 7 of the Essential Commodities Act
and Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act. They state offences under Sections 468 and 471 IPC were added later on. It is stated by the learned
counsels for the petitioners that the petitioners are not charged with offences
under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act , and they are mainly charged with the
offences punishable under Section 420 IPC and, if convicted, the petitioners
can be sentenced to undergo imprisonment for a maximum period of seven
years. They further state that the evidence, which is primarily documentary
in nature, is already in the custody of police and therefore, no useful purpose
would be served in keeping the petitioners in custody. The learned counsels
for the petitioners, therefore, submit that the petitioners be granted bail. 5. Per contra, Mr. Amit Chadha, learned APP for the State, vehemently
opposes the bail applications of the petitioners by contending that a co-
ordinated nexus of these individuals was operating to dupe innocent and
desperate people whose family members were ill and these persons
exploited the gullibility of the innocent people by selling fake Remdesivir
injections at exorbitantly high prices. The learned APP for the State draws
the attention of this Court to a notification/Office Memorandum dated
10.04.2021, issued by the Drugs Controller General (India), Circulated vide
File No.ED/Misc.273/2020-3, which pertains to the hoarding of essential life BAIL APPLN. 1983/2021 etc. Page 9 of 13 saving drugs and prohibits black-marketing/over-charging of these drugs.
The learned APP for the State submits that Remdesivir injections were
covered as a controlled drug/commodity in the abovementioned notification
and were essential and scarce commodity. He submits that an extreme view
must be taken of this offence as the petitioners produced forged injections
and forged the labels of original company to lend authenticity to the fake
drugs that they were peddling. He states that due to criminally greedy
actions of the petitioner, many innocent people lost their lives. He further
submits that the statements of the victims have also been recorded and all
the material collected against the petitioners show a prima facie and
deliberate involvement of the petitioners herein in misleading the public at
large. He states that the report from the FSL and Covipri are awaited, and
there is an apprehension of the petitioners influencing the witnesses and
tampering with evidence in case they are granted bail. He further submits
that the charges are yet to be framed and this Court should not entertain the
present petitions and once the Trial Court frame the charges the petitioners
will be at liberty to seek appropriate remedy for discharge. 6. The factors which have to be kept in mind while considering an
application for bail are: 7. Charge-sheet has been filed. The evidence, which is primarily
documentary in nature, has been collected and is already in the custody of
Police. The exhibits have been sent for sampling and for verification. The
petitioners are accused of offences punishable under Sections
420 / 468 / 471 / 188 / 120B / 34 IPC and Sections 3 / 7 of the Essential
Commodities Act and Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act and if
convicted the petitioners can be sentenced for imprisonment for a maximum
period of seven years. The petitioners have already spent seven months in
custody. Though the petitioners are accused of a nefarious and depraved
offence, taking into account the fact that the evidence which is primarily
documentary in nature and is already in the custody of Police, this Court is
of the opinion that no useful purpose would be in prolonging the
incarceration of the petitioners. 8. It is settled law that the magnitude of the offence cannot be the only
criterion for denying bail. The object of bail is to secure the presence of the
accused at the Trial. The object of bail is neither punitive nor preventative
and the person who has not been convicted should be held in custody
pending Trial only to ensure his attendance at Trial; and to ensure that the
evidence is not tampered with and the witnesses are not threatened. If there BAIL APPLN. 1983/2021 etc. Page 11 of 13 is no apprehension of interference in administration of justice in a criminal
trial by an accused then a person should not be deprived of his liberty. 9. Accordingly, this Court is inclined to grant bail to the petitioners on
the following conditions: 10. It is clarified that none of the contents of this order shall have any
bearing on the Trial and shall not tantamount to a comment on the merits of
the case. The Trial Court shall remain unhindered by this order during the
Trial. 11. With the above observations, this petitions are disposed of along with
the pending applications. SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J
NOVEMBER 16, 2021
S. Zakir/ Rahul BAIL APPLN. 1983/2021 etc. Page 13 of 13