The present petition has been filed seeking the following reliefs : NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:52483 2 WP No.25791 of 2024 QUESTIONS ADD AS ANSWER
 THE FOLLOWING
 OPTION(S) 11. In which of the following cases (A) Golaknath vs
 did the Supreme Court of India State of Punjab
 declare the prevalence of (1967)
 Fundamental Rights over Directive
 Principles of the State Policy in case
 of conflict between the two? (D) Minerva Mills vs
 Union of India
 (A) Golaknath vs State of Punjab (1980) (1967) (B) State of Madras vs Champakam
 Dorairajan ( 1951)
 (C) Kesavananda Bharati vs State of
 Kerala ( 1973)
 (D) Minerva Mills vs Union of India (1980) 27. Birha is the popular folk song of (B) Kol
 which group of tribal women ? (A) Gond
 (B) Kol
 (C) Bhil
 (D) Sahariya 42. A ............. attack comes in the (A) Spamming
 form of deceptive emails or text
 messages that may ask you to install
 software or divulge personal
 information. (ii) To award appropriate marks to the petitioners in light
 of the correct answers as above and consequently hold them
 to be qualified to attempt the Mains Examination of Madhya
 Pradesh State Service and State Forest Service
 Examination,2024. (ii) Any other relief(s) that this Hon'ble Court deems just
 and proper in the case. 2. Challenge is made to the final model answer keys prepared by the
 respondent/authorities dated 19.07.2024 with reference to 6 questions
 because of which the petitioners could not qualify to participate in the
 mains examination of Madhya Pradesh State Service and State Forest
 Service Examination, 2024. As the petitioners were desirous to join the
 Madhya Pradesh State Services and the State Forest Services, they have
 participated in the preliminary examination of Madhya Pradesh State
 Service and State Forest Service Preliminary Examination, 2024 which
 was held on 23.06.2024. They obtained marks just below the cut-off
 marks. They are aggrieved by the final answer key provided by the
 respondent-MPPSC in six questions. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:52483 5 WP No.25791 of 2024 3. It is submitted that the options selected by the petitioners offer the
 correct answer and they ought to be granted marks for it and if the said
 marks could have been granted to the petitioners, they would have
 qualified for the mains examination. Six questions for which the
 petitioners gave correct answers are Questions No.11, 27, 42, 63, 64 and 66. It is argued that the answers which have been attempted by the
 petitioners are correct as they find reference in the Government
 publications by NCERT, Government of India Gazetteer, Books or the
 judgments passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 4. Petitioners' counsel has drawn attention of this Court to Question
 No.11 of Set 'A' of the examination paper. He has emphasized on the
 fact that the question does not clearly speak that in which case the Supreme
 Court had declared the prevalence of Fundamental Rights over Directive
 Principles of the State Policy in case of conflict between the two. It is
 submitted that the options which have been provided have three correct
 options as there are three Supreme Court judgments which clearly held the
 prevalence of Fundamental Rights over Directive Principles of the State
 Policy in case of conflict between the two. Question No.11 does not say
 that which first case decided by the Hon'ble Supreme Court provides the
 same. The respondent-MPPSC in their model answers has provided the
 answer to Question No.11 is Option (B) i.e. The State of Madras vs
 Champakam Borairajan (1951) whereas the fact remains that the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the cases of Golaknath vs State of Punjab ( 1967) and
 Minerva Mills vs Union of India (1980) also provided the same Signature Not Verified Signed by: VINOD VISHWAKARMA Signing time: 21-10-2024 16:53:13 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:52483 6 WP No.25791 of 2024 proposition. It is the case of the petitioners that as they have attempted
 option (A) or (D) which are also correct answers, therefore, they should
 have been provided marks for attempting option (A) or (D). 5. It is submitted that similar is the situation with other questions; for
 example, in respect of Question No.27, the answer as provided by the
 respondent/MPPSC is option (A) i.e. 'Gond'. However, the answer which
 was attempted by the petitioners is option (B) i.e. Kol, which is also the
 correct answer in terms of Gazetteer of India, Madhya Pradesh for
 Jabalpur, 1st Edn. 1968, which provides that on special occasions, Gond as
 well as Kol performs Birha dance. For this, he has placed reliance upon Hindi Granth Academy in its Book entitled Gyan Sampada in context of
 Madhya Pradesh which also provides for the same answer. Thus, the
 petitioners ought to be awarded marks for attempting Option (B) i.e. Kol. 6. It is submitted that insofar as Question No.42 is concerned, the
 closest answer is Option (A) i.e. Spamming which finds place in NCERT
 and ICT Textbook for Class IX. The petitioners have attempted Option (A)
 i.e. Spamming; therefore, marks should have been provided to them. It is
 submitted that similar is the situation to Questions No.63, 64 and 66. 7. The petitioners have placed on record the material i.e. Government
 of India Gazetteer, relevant extracts of NCERT publications and other
 textbooks and Government publications on which they are placing reliance
 including the Supreme Court judgments. Attention is invited to the relevant
 clauses of the advertisement which provides for the grant of marks to the
 candidates in case of two or more same answers provided in a particular Signature Not Verified Signed by: VINOD VISHWAKARMA Signing time: 21-10-2024 16:53:13 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:52483 7 WP No.25791 of 2024 question. Reliance is placed upon relevant clauses of the scheme of the
 examination. Clauses 4(5) and 4(5)(3) thereof are relevant. It is argued that
 Clause 4(5)(3) clearly provides that in case there are more than one correct
 options for the question then the marks ought to have been awarded to the
 same question. Clause 4(5) provides that there is a provision for raising an
 objection on the preliminary model answer sheet prepared by the
 authorities and after considering the objection, the final answer sheet has to
 be prepared. Five days' time was granted to raise such an objection, and
 they are to be filed online. The same was required to be considered by the
 committee constituted of experts. 8. It is submitted that as already pointed out hereinabove that Question
 No.11 was itself doubtful, as it does not provide that the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in which first case has held that in case of conflict between the
 Fundamental Rights over Directive Principles of the State Policy, which
 one has to be given primacy. The question is not clear in which case the
 Hon'ble Court has held so, therefore, there can be more than one correct
 options. As the petitioners have attempted the other correct options,
 therefore, they should have been granted marks in terms of Clause 4(5)(3)
 of the scheme of examination. Petitioners' counsel has placed reliance upon the judgments passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Golak Nath vs
 State of Punjab reported in 1967 SCC OnLine SC 14 and Minerva Mills
 Ltd. vs Union of India reported (1980) 3 SCC 625 wherein final conclusion
 is that the Fundamental Rights hold primacy over the Directive Principles
 of the State Policy. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:52483 8 WP No.25791 of 2024 9. It is argued that the aforesaid guidelines of the scheme of the
 examination have not been adhered to by the authorities while preparing
 the final answer sheet and deciding the objections of the candidates.
 Therefore, interference is sought for. 10. Counsel appearing for the MPPSC has filed preliminary
 submissions. It is stated that in the said examination i.e. State Service and
 State Forest Service Preliminary Examination 2024, a provisional answer
 key was issued on 27.06.2024 and within a period of 7 days, the candidates
 have to raise objections and after considering the objections so raised, the
 experts have to prepare and release a final answer key which, in the present
 matter, was released on 19.07.2024. It is pointed out that the petitioners
 No.4 and 7 have not raised any objections during the aforesaid period nor
 have filed any document to show that the answers which they have
 attempted are contrary to the final answer sheet. In absence of objections
 raised by these candidates, they could not have filed the writ petition
 challenging the final answer sheet. To buttress the submission, he has placed reliance upon the decision in the case of Ankita Jaiswal vs MPPSC : It was further observed that in the event of any doubt, the benefit should go
 to the examination authority rather than to the candidate. The Court should
 presume the correctness of the key answers and proceed on that
 assumption. It is submitted that once the model answer keys are prepared
 by the expert body based on some material and therefore, no interference
 should be made by this Court. 11. It is submitted that present is not a case where the petitioners are
 contending that the benefits are being extended to some of the candidates
 and not being extended to the petitioners, rather it is a case where in terms
 of final model sheet prepared by the expert body, the benefits have been
 extended to the concerning candidates. Under these circumstances, no relief Signature Not Verified Signed by: VINOD VISHWAKARMA Signing time: 21-10-2024 16:53:13 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:52483 10 WP No.25791 of 2024 should have been extended to the petitioners. On these grounds,
 respondent's counsel prays for dismissal of the petition. 12. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and given my thoughtful
 consideration to the matter. 13. Challenge in the petition is made to the final model answer sheet
 prepared by the expert body with reference to 6 questions . First of all,
 this Court deems it appropriate to examine the scheme of the examination.
 Clauses 4(5) and 4(5)(3) thereof are relevant and read as under : 14. From the aforesaid, it is clear that in terms of the preliminary answer
 sheets prepared by the authorities, the candidates were having option to
 submit their objections within a time frame and thereafter, the said
 objections were required to be considered by the expert body. The expert
 body after due consideration of the objections so raised by the candidates, Signature Not Verified Signed by: VINOD VISHWAKARMA Signing time: 21-10-2024 16:53:13 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:52483 11 WP No.25791 of 2024 have prepared the final answer sheet in the matter. There is no option
 provided in the examination for re-evaluation of answer sheet as is
 reflected from the scheme of the examination. The Supreme Court in the
 case of Central Board of Secondary Education vs Khushbu Srivastava and
 others reported as (2014) 14 SCC 523 has held that in the absence of any
 provision for the re-evaluation of answers books in the relevant rules, no
 candidate in an examination has any right to claim or ask for re-evaluation
 of his marks. Therefore, no such re-evaluation is permitted. 15. From the perusal of the aforesaid scheme of the examination, it is
 also clear that the final answer sheet prepared by the expert body after
 considering the objections raised by the candidates shall be considered to
 be final and no other claims should be entertained. Since there is no
 provision for reevaluation of the answer sheet, this Court is now required to
 see whether under the scope of judicial review, how much interference can
 be made as far as the model answer sheet prepared by the expert body is
 concerned. 16. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ran Vijay Singh 's case
 (supra) has considered the similar situation and has held as under : evaluation or scrutiny only if it is demonstrated very clearly,
 without any "inferential process of reasoning or by a process of
 rationalisation" and only in rare or exceptional cases that a
 material error has been committed; 30.3. The court should not at all re-evaluate or scrutinise the
 answer sheets of a candidate--it has no expertise in the matter
 and academic matters are best left to academics; 30.4. The court should presume the correctness of the key
 answers and proceed on that assumption; and
 30.5. In the event of a doubt, the benefit should go to the
 examination authority rather than to the candidate. 17. From the perusal of the aforesaid judgments, it is apparently clear
 that the expert committee report i.e. model answer keys prepared by the
 body of experts should not be interfered under the scope of judicial review
 by this Court, especially in academic matters. 18. In another case i.e. Kanpur University vs Samir Gupta reported in
 (1983) 4 SCC 309, the Hon'ble Supreme has considered the similar aspect
 and has held as under :- 19. A full Bench of this Court had an occasion to consider the similar
 issue in the case of Nitin Pathak (supra) wherein it is held as under : 20. Thus, from the perusal of the aforesaid, it is apparently clear that the
 scope of interference in the model answer keys prepared by the expert is
 very limited, to the extent of mala fides being alleged by the candidates. In
 the present case, there is no such situation regarding mala fides. Apart from
 the aforesaid, it is further observed that especially in cases dealing with
 academic matters, opinion of experts based on some authority should be
 given weightage. It may be a case where some conflicts may be noted in
 the model answers, however, the fact remains that even there is some
 conflicts in the model answers, the weightage should be given to the
 institution or the examination body rather than the candidates. Only in rare
 or in exceptional cases that there is a material error which has been Signature Not Verified Signed by: VINOD VISHWAKARMA Signing time: 21-10-2024 16:53:13 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:52483 15 WP No.25791 of 2024 committed or the model answer keys have been prepared being an outcome
 of mala fides, only in such situations, the matter should be entertained. 21. One of the grounds which has been raised by the respondents No.2
 and 3/MPPSC in preliminary submissions is that some of the petitioners
 have not even filed their objections. The aforesaid aspect was considered in
 the case of Vivek Singh Bhadoria vs State of M.P. and another : Writ
 Petition No.4550 of 2022 decided by Gwalior Bench of this Court on
 26.02.2022 wherein it has been observed : 22. In view thereof, no benefit can be given to those candidates who
 have not exercised their rights of even raising any objection on the
 questions which appeared to them to be doubtful, therefore, the whole
 recruitment process cannot be put to jeopardise at the behest of the
 candidates who are sleeping over their rights. 23. After considering the legal propositions on the subject, this Court has
 arrived at a conclusion that the scope of interference in such cases is very
 limited. However, to ascertain or to clarify the verdict, this Court vide order
 dated 14.10.2024 has directed the respondent-MPPSC to produce the
 decision taken by the expert committee on the objections filed by the
 candidates in a sealed cover. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:52483 16 WP No.25791 of 2024 24. Counsel appearing for the respondents No.2 and 3/MPPSC has
 produced the same. After going through the record produced by the
 MPPSC, it is seen that model answer keys have been prepared by the
 expert body based upon some sources/authorities. The model answers to
 the disputed questions, the opinion given by expert body and the
 sources/authority have been produced. After going through all, it is
 apparently clear that each model answer to the questions involved in the
 present petition is based upon some or the other authority. Thus, it cannot
 be said that the model answer keys prepared by the expert body is without
 any basis. Except Question No.11 in Set A, all other model answers which
 have been prepared are based on the authorities and do not call for any
 interference in the present petition. Insofar Question No.11 is concerned,
 the argument advanced by the counsel for the petitioners is that Question
 No.11 itself is not clear. It does not speak that which first judgment of the
 Supreme Court declares the prevalence of Fundamental Rights over
 Directive Principles of the State Policy in case of conflict between the two,
 to be pointed out. However, it only says that in which cases did the
 Supreme Court of India declare the prevalence of Fundamental Rights over
 Directive Principles of the State Policy in case of conflict between the two
 and gave four options. It is submitted by the petitioner that out of them,
 three options are correct. Therefore, once the question itself is not clear and
 carries more than one correct answer then the candidates should be
 awarded marks for each correct answers as mentioned in Clause 4(5)(3) of
 the scheme of examination. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2024:MPHC-JBP:52483 17 WP No.25791 of 2024 25. However, in this context, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission vs Rahul Singh reported in
 (2018) 7 SCC 254 has taken note of the fact that when there are conflicting
 views, the Court should not interfere with the matter under the judicial
 review and should go by the opinion of the experts. The Court has no
 jurisdiction to upset the opinion of the experts. The aforesaid has been held
 by the Hon'ble Supreme Court owing to the fact that whatever model
 answer key has been prepared by the expert body are based upon some
 authentic publications or textbooks and the same are equally applicable to
 all the aspirants. The interference in such matters should not be made just
 because some of the candidates could not qualify for mains examination. If
 the interference is made in academics matters, particularly the model
 answer sheet prepared by the expert body, it will affect the entire
 examination which has been conducted. Therefore, once the candidates are
 not in a position to establish the factum of mala fides on part of the
 authorities to prepare answer sheet coupled with the fact that the same is
 equally applicable to all the candidates, no interference should be made by
 this Court under the judicial review. 26. The scope of interference in academic matters has been examined by
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in many cases. One of such case is Basavaiah
 (Dr.) vs Dr. H.L. Ramesh reported in (2010) 8 SCC 372 wherein it has
 been held as follows : 27. In the present case, the provisional answer key was issued on
 27.06.2024 and in terms of aforesaid Clauses 4(5) and 3 of the scheme of
 the examination, within a period of 7 days, the candidates were required to
 raise objections, if any. The objections so raised were referred to the expert
 body. The experts recommended no changes in the provisional answer-
 sheet. Thereafter, the final answer key was released on 19.07.2024. It is not
 for this Court to sit over the wisdom of such an expert committee. Thus, the
 Court has no reason to take another view in this matter. Under these
 circumstances, no relief can be extended to the petitioners. The sealed
 cover envelop is returned to the respondent's counsel. 28. Consequently, the petition sans merit and is accordingly dismissed.
 No order as to costs. (VISHAL MISHRA)
 JUDGE

 VV Signature Not Verified Signed by: VINOD VISHWAKARMA Signing time: 21-10-2024 16:53:13