1. Challenge in this appeal is to the judgement and order of

 conviction passed by learned Additional District and Sessions Judge,

 3rd Court, Berhampore, Murshidabad in Sessions Case No. 367 of

 2018, Sessions Trial No. 2 of 2nd February, 2019. 2. S.I. Subrata Indra of Berhampore Police Station on 17th November,

 2017, set the criminal administration of justice into motion by

 informing the Inspector-in-charge of Berhampore Police Station in

 writing about the fact that on 17th November, 2017 he along with other

 police personnel rounded up three persons who were supposed to come

 to Ranibagan, Bhutia Market in front of Ranibagan Medical Centre 2 with fake Indian currency notes in their possession and they would

 exchange the same among themselves. Recording such information in

 the diary vide Berhampore P.S. G.D. Entry No. 1189 of 17th November,

 2017, pursuant to the direction of the Inspector-in-charge of

 Berhampore Police Station, he alongwith constable Ismail Sk., Village

 Police Toton Sarkar left the police station for Ranibagan to work out

 the information by government vehicle no. WB 58T 5096. They arrived

 at the spot at about 13.45 hours in uniform and waited at Ranibagan

 More in disguise. At about 14.15 hours two persons were found to have

 come to Bhutia Market, riding motorcycles registered as WB 58V 1951

 and WB 58S 8937 and stopped in front of one person who was waiting

 at Bhutia Market. The said person gave two bundles of pink colour

 notes to the motorcycle riders; at that point of time police stepped in

 and apprehended all the three persons. Police thereafter disclosed their

 identity and informed them about the reason for which those persons

 were apprehended. The persons apprehended then disclosed their

 identity as Sujoy Mondal, Intaj Ali and Obaidul Islam. 3. The informant made an attempt to find out some public witnesses

 but having found no person willing to be the witness to search, S.I.

 Subrata Indra offered himself to be searched by the apprehended

 accused persons one by one. But they refused to do so. Thereafter,

 Subrata Indra searched the apprehended accused persons one by one

 in presence of two other police personnel.100 number of fake Indian

 currency notes in the denomination of Rs. 2000/- found in the right

 pocket of the pant of the accused person Sujoy Mondal. 99 numbers of 3 fake Indian currency notes in the denomination of Rs. 2000/- were

 found from the pocket of accused Intaj Ali and 99 numbers of fake

 Indian currency notes of denomination of Rs. 2000/- found in the pant

 pocket of accused Obaidul Islam together with two mobile phones. The

 accused persons failed to give any explanation for possessing the fake

 Indian currency notes. However, they admitted before the police officer

 about their knowledge that those were fake currency notes which they

 wanted to sell to others for using them as genuine in the market. They

 also admitted their involvement in the business of trafficking of fake

 Indian currency notes. The currency notes were seized together with

 other articles including the motorcycles used by those persons. 4. As the information disclosed offence cognizable in nature

 Berhampore P.S. case No. 1385 of 2017 dated 17th November, 2017

 was registered under Section 489B and 489C of the I.P.C. Police took

 up investigation which culminated into submission of charge sheet

 against the accused persons. Charge was framed under Section 489B and 489C of the I.P.C. and pleading their innocence to the charges, the

 accused persons stood trial. 5. To crown success prosecution examined as many as nine

 witnesses out of which P.W. 9 is the Investigating Officer and P.W. 1,

 P.W. 2 and P.W. 3 are police personnel; rest five witnesses did not

 support the prosecution case. Therefore, the prosecution case rests on

 the testimony of police personnel. 6. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of ROHTASH KUMAR VS. STATE OF HARYANA reported in 2013 AIR SCW 3208 held: 4 7. In PROMOD KUMAR VS. STATE reported in 2013 AIR SCW 4000

 Hon'ble Supreme Court held:- 8. Let us now consider the prosecution case in the light of the

 testimony given by the witnesses who are police personnel or

 associated with the police, to find out how far they are worth credence

 in this particular case. 9. S.I. Subrata Indra set the criminal administration of justice into

 motion by submitting written information while producing three

 persons before the Inspector-in-charge of the police station together

 with 298 numbers of fake Indian currency notes in the denomination

 of Rs. 2000/- along with two motorbikes and mobile phones. The said

 written information further narrates that Subrata Indra accompanied

 by Constable Md. Ismail and Village Police Toton Sarkar, left the police

 station for Ranibagan Bhutia Market to work out a source information

 in uniform by government vehicle being no. WB 58T 5096 after

 recording the information in the G.D. Entry book vide G.D. Entry No.

 1189 dated 17th November, 2017 with the approval of I.C. Berhampur

 Police Station. At about 13.45 hrs they reached Ranibagan Bhutia

 Market, around 14.15 hours two persons were found coming by riding 6 two motor cycles and they stopped in front of one person waiting at

 Bhutia Market. The witnesses P.W. 1, P.W. 2 and P.W. 3 noticed the

 person standing at the Bhutia Market was giving two bundles of pink

 colour notes to the two motor bike riders and Subrata Indra together

 with his companions arrived there, disclosed identity and informed

 them about the ground of their apprehension. In the written

 information Subrata Indra stated that those three persons admitted

 that they were quite alive to the fact that they were possessing fake

 currency notes, even they disclosed their intention to sell those notes

 to others for using them as genuine. They further made an admission

 regarding their involvement in trafficking the fake currency notes for

 past few years. Those notes were seized along with motorcycles and

 mobile phones from the spot. 10. As P.W. 1, Toton Sarkar stated that on 17th November, 2017, he

 accompanied Subrata Indra of Berhampur Police Station to Ranibagan

 Bhutia Market where three persons assembled and 298 numbers of

 fake currency notes were recovered from the possession of those three

 persons. Those notes were seized on the spot. At that point of time no

 other person was available at the place of occurrence. During cross

 examination he stated that after reaching the place of occurrence they

 came to know that three persons were carrying fake currency notes

 and they were nabbed by 'Sir'. Mejo Babu showed the currency notes

 recovered from the possession of those three persons. This evidence

 shows that P.W. 1 did not have any direct knowledge about the alleged 7 incident of recovery of currency notes from the possession of the

 accused persons. He saw what was shown to him by "Mejo Babu". 11. P.W. 2, Constable Md. Ismail claimed to have accompanied S.I.

 Subrata Indra to Ranibagan Bhutia Market around 5.30 p.m.

 According to P.W. 2, "Subrata Indra stopped three persons asked their

 name, after that Indra Babu searched them and recovered currency

 notes in the denomination of Rs. 2000/." During cross examination

 this witness stated that the place was a bazaar but no person was

 present there at that point of time. 12. P.W. 3 is the S.I. Subrata Indra who stated to have seen the person

 who was standing at Bhutia Market beforehand, two persons came by

 riding two motor cycles and the man gave two bundles of pink colour

 notes and soon thereafter those three persons were apprehended. P.W.

 3 challenged them for possessing fake Indian currency notes.

 Thereafter, search was made and 298 numbers of fake currency notes

 were recovered from three of them. P.W. 3 further stated that he

 interrogated those three persons and came to know that they were alive

 to the fact of possessing fake currency notes. Those persons were

 brought under arrest to the police station. 13. Sadhan Das, P.W. 4, Bharat Mondal, P.W. 5, Ananta Bairagi, P.W.

 6, Nasib Sk., P.W. 7 and Goutam Chakraborty, P.W. 8, these five

 witnesses were examined by the public prosecutor in the light of the Section 154 of the Evidence and I.O. as P.W. 9 also claimed to have

 examined local witnesses and recorded their statement but all these

 five witnesses P.W. 4 to P.W. 8 denied to have stated before the 8 Investigating Officer that on 17th November, 2017 at about 5.00 p.m.

 one police officer of Berhampur Police Station, Subrata Indra with

 some police personnel arrested the accused persons for possessing

 fake currency notes amounting to Rs. 5,96,000/- from Ranibagan

 Bhutia Market. 14. The testimony of these five witnesses indicates that no person

 other than three police personnel witnessed the factum of arrest,

 recovery and seizure of incriminating notes. It is further established

 that whatever information P.W. 3 claimed to have gathered, he

 gathered by interacting with or interrogating the accused persons. At

 this juncture we may consider the provision of Section 25 and 26 of the

 Evidence Act. 15. Section 25 of the Evidence Act envisages:- 16. Section 26 of the Evidence Act envisages:- 17. Admission is defined under Section 17 of the Evidence Act which

 says:- 18. The term 'confession' though has not been defined in the Evidence

 Act, 1872 , but from the definition it may be inferred as something

 made by the person charged with any criminal offence or in other

 words it can be said that confession is an admission by the accused

 person in a criminal proceeding. Section 25 of the Evidence Act raises an embargo as regards proof

 of confession before a police officer whereas Section 26 creates an

 embargo with regards to admissibility of any statement in the nature of

 confession made by an accused in the custody of a police officer,

 although such confession may be made before any person who is not a

 police. It cannot be made admissible unless it is made in immediate

 presence of any Magistrate. 19. In view of Section 25 of the Evidence Act the admission or

 confession before the police personnel is inadmissible. The P.W. 3, S.I.

 Subrata Indra in his oral testimony told that having found the

 transaction of currency notes pink in colour they apprehended those

 three persons and disclosed their identity as police persons. Thereafter

 on interrogation P.W. 3 was told by the persons apprehended about the

 face currency notes in their possession, their intention to sell the notes 10 and use the forged notes as genuine one. It goes without saying that in

 such situation; in view of Section 26 of the Evidence Act, confession

 made by the accused person cannot be proved against such persons as

 it was not made in presence of a Magistrate. 20. Of course, information received from the accused persons would

 have been relevant under Section 27 of the Evidence Act but in a

 different context, if the statement made by the accused while in

 custody of police would have led towards discovery of currency notes. 21. But in this case the police officer S.I. Subrata Indra knew that the

 accused persons were carrying fake currency notes and he also seen

 the accused persons dealing with pink colour notes. 22. The entire prosecution case with regard to possession of FICN and

 the intention of the accused persons to sell the same or use the same

 as genuine is based on the oral testimony of three witnesses who are

 members of police force. Thus the order of conviction appears to have

 been passed relying upon absolutely inadmissible evidence. 23. Evidence is required to be considered from the point of view of

 human probability. In his oral testimony as well as in the written

 information S.I. Subrata Indra stated that he along with Village Police

 Toton Sarkar and Constable Md. Ismail went to the place of occurrence

 by the government vehicle, they were in uniform but he saw those

 three persons trading pink colour notes and they were caught red

 handed. This statement indicates that they were standing in a

 proximate distance so as to identify the notes by colour. But they were

 not visible to the accused persons. When they proceeded towards those 11 three persons no attempt was made by any one of them to flee from the

 place of occurrence even though two of them were on motorcycles. 24. From the testimony of P.W. 1 we find that he was told by the Mejo

 Babu about the recovery of fake currency notes which indicates that

 P.W. 1 was not with the other two persons P.W. 2 and P.W. 3,

 otherwise he would have witnessed everything by himself. Therefore,

 three persons having found two police personnel would have easily

 fled away at least one out of those three could have escaped the arrest.

 But no such thing had happened. P.W. 2, Constable Md. Ismail went

 one step further to say that they went to the place of occurrence at

 about 5.30 p.m. while the alleged incident took place, according to

 P.W. 3 at about 2.15 hours and from the written information Exhibit-5

 we find that the entire process of search, recovery, seizure of currency

 notes continued from 14.15 hours till 17 hrs. The endorsement on the

 written information however, does not indicate any time as to when the

 information was given but from the First Information Report Exhibit 11

 we find that the information was received at about 18.45 hours i.e. one

 hour forty five minutes after the alleged incident. While those three

 witnesses covered the distance between the police station and place of

 occurrence by forty five minutes, when they came there. Lack of

 coherence, in the testimony of P.W. 1, P.W. 2 and P.W. 3 makes the

 prosecution case doubtful. Be that as it may let us now consider the

 culpability of the appellants in the light of the provision as laid down

 under Section 489B and 489C of the I.P.C. 25. Section 489B of the I.P.C. envisages:- Thus, to constitute an offence within the meaning of Section 489B of the Indian Penal Code following facts are required to be established:- 26. In the case of UMASHANKAR VS. STATE OF CHATTISGARH

 reported in AIR 2001 SC 3074 Hon'ble Supreme Court held:- Without the aforementioned mens rea selling, buying or
 receiving from another person or otherwise trafficking in or
 using as genuine, forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank
 notes, is not enough to constitute offence under Section 489B of the I.P.C." 27. Here the intention of the appellants unveiled before the Court

 though the testimony of P.W. 3, Sub-Inspector of Police Subrata Indra

 before whom the appellants disclosed such intention after arrest and

 such disclosure is not admissible in evidence. 28. Section 489C of the I.P.C. envisages:- 29. In order to prove a charge/prosecution is to establish that under Section 489C of the Indian Penal Code the accused persons had in

 their possession forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank notes and

 had knowledge or reason to believe that the notes were counterfeit and

 at the same time they had the intention to use the same as genuine or

 may be used them as genuine. 30. In BUR SINGH VS. EMPEROR reported in AIR 1931 Lah 24, the

 Hon'ble High Court held:- The knowledge or intention of the accused persons, in this

 particular case is coming to the fore from the written information and

 from oral testimony of P.W. 3 who stated that the accused persons told

 him about their knowledge of having the fake currency notes in their

 possession and they had the intention to sell those notes, which, with

 the risk of repetition, I would say, is not admissible under the Evidence Act . 31. P.W. 3 claimed to have left the police station in order to work out a

 source information that three persons would come to the place of

 occurrence with fake Indian currency notes and having found them

 taking pink colour currency notes, he claimed to have challenged those

 three accused persons by saying that they were carrying FICN. 32. In the impugned judgement, learned Trial Court observed that

 three accused persons were actively involved in trafficking fake

 currency notes. It turned out to be an "undeniable fact". Then again

 learned Trial Court held "Prosecution witnesses are found trustworthy,

 believable and corroborative in material particulars". 33. "To sum up, I find that the evidence is clear, cogent, consistent

 and convincing and there no room to the credibility of the prosecution

 witnesses. Prompt and spontaneity of the FIR supports the eyewitness

 account and thus affirms the story of prosecution. Thus, the

 prosecution has successfully proved all the ingredient of offence 15 punishable under Section 489B and 489C of the I.P.C. against the

 three accused persons namely Sujoy Mondal, Intaj Ali and Obaidul

 Islam beyond doubt." 34. I do not find from the judgement impugned the reason that

 inspired the learned Trial Court to ignore the provision of Section 25 or

 26 of the Evidence Act . It is the golden principle of criminal

 jurisprudence that prosecution is under obligation to prove the charges

 beyond reasonable doubt. Learned Trial court not only failed to

 consider the evidence carefully; for all practical purposes learned Trial

 Court has thrown upon the appellants, the onus of proving that they

 do not have the intention to palm off the currency notes as genuine. 35. In my humble opinion, the testimony of all three police personnel

 is not found to be reliable and trustworthy. On the contrary evidence of

 P.W. 1, P.W. 2 and P.W. 3 are found to be absolutely inadmissible. The

 impugned judgement passed by learned Trial Court suffers from

 infirmity and if it is allowed to remain in force it would amount to

 miscarriage of justice. 36. Therefore, I am inclined to set aside the judgement passed by

 learned Trial Court. Charges against the appellants cannot be said to

 have been proved beyond reasonable doubt by the prosecution. The

 accused/appellants are found not guilty to the charges under Section

 489B and 489C and they be set at liberty and be released from bail

 bonds. Property seized other than 298 numbers of FICN be returned to

 the persons from whom seized. 37. Let a copy of this judgement be sent down along with lower Court

 record to the learned Trial Court for information and necessary action. 38. Parties are to act on the server copy of this judgement. 39. Urgent photostat certified copy of this judgement, if applied

 therefor, should be made available to the parties upon compliance with

 the requisite formalities. (SIDDHARTHA ROY CHOWDHURY, J.)