1. As State is keen in questioning the judgment and order of

 acquittal passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge, Shrirampur in

 Criminal Appeal No.20 of 2012, thereby acquitting present respondents

 from charge under sections 420, 406, 198 and 465 r/w section 34 of IPC, -2- ALS-59-2018

instant leave application to file appeal has been pressed into service. 2. In brief, prosecution was launched against respondents on

the report lodged by one Chintaman Bhujangrao Kulkarni in the capacity

of Founder Secretary of Sanjay Sahakari Gruhnirman Sanstha Maryadit,

alleging that present respondents accused had prepared false consent

letter dated 05.07.2007 showing him to be authorized to execute

mortgage deed of the house in the said society and had thereby raised

loan to the tune of Rs.2,25,000/- in the name of his wife by making his

son and wife surety towards the said loan. On the strength of above

complaint under section 156(3) Cr.P.C., crime seems to have been

registered and investigated for commission of above offence and after

charge-sheeting the accused, they were duly tried before learned

J.M.F.C., Court No.4, Shrirampur, who appreciated the evidence and held

charges proved vide judgment and order dated 16.07.2012. Above order of conviction was taken exception to by filing

Criminal Appeal No.20 of 2012 before Sessions Judge and learned

Additional Sessions Judge was pleased to allow the appeal vide judgment

and order dated 15.03.2017 and against this judgment and order, State is

desirous of filing appeal. Hence, the leave application. -3- ALS-59-2018 3. Learned APP pointed out that, accused had posed himself to

be a Secretary and had manufactured documents authorizing himself to

execute mortgage deed on behalf of society and he further raised loan

from bank by making such forged documents. That, he also executed sale

deed in favour of his wife without consent of society and thereby had

played fraud on the cooperative housing society. 4. Learned APP further pointed out that, in support of its case

prosecution had adduced evidence of PW1 complainant apart evidence of

PW2 and Investigating Officer. That, documentary evidence like certified

copies of 7/12 extract, resolution of co-operative society, copy of

mortgage deed, sale deed were also placed on record and therefore,

considering the oral and documentary evidence, it is his submission that

learned trial court had rightly held the charges proved and had thereby

convicted accused. However, according to him, first appellate court over

turned the sound findings and conclusion by merely stating that

prosecution failed to bring home the charges and that necessary

ingredients for attracting the charges are missing. 5. Learned APP took this court through the observations of

learned trial court, in paragraph nos.9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 22 and 25

and would submit the said findings are in consonance with the evidence -4- ALS-59-2018

and therefore, the order of conviction is just, legal and proper. Lastly, he

submitted that, on the contrary, no sound reasons are assigned by the

first appellate court by setting aside the order of trial court. There is good

case on merits and hence, he urges for leave. 6. Supporting the judgment and order of first appellate court,

learned counsel for respondents accused would submit that none of the

necessary essential ingredients for attracting the charges were available

in the prosecution evidence and she would point out that there was no

corroboration in the testimony of complainant and rather answers given

by him in his own cross has rendered case of prosecution doubtful. 7. Heard. Perused the record, which shows that, one

Chintaman Bhujangrao Kulkarni claiming himself to be Founder

Secretary of Sanjay Sahakari Gruhnirman Sanstha Maryadit approached

learned JMFC for invoking powers u/s 156(3) Cr.P.C. and the complaint

was referred to police station for investigation by virtue of registration of

crime bearing no. 16 of 2007 for offence punishable under sections 420 , 406 , 205 , 198 , 196 , 192 , 465 r/w 34 of Indian Penal Code . 8. Substance of the accusation is that, accused no.1, who was

never a member of co-operative housing society, had become a owner of -5- ALS-59-2018

bungalow and he has encumbered the said property by tendering

fabricated documents posing himself to be 'B' Class member of the

society. He had on the strength of bogus documents, mortgaged the

property for raising loan to the tune of Rs.2,25,000/- and subsequently

executed the sale deed in favour of wife itself. Hence, the complaint. 9. Evidence of complainant is at Exh.47. Another witness PW2

namely, Annasaheb Dhokchaule is at Exh.81 and PW3 is the Investigating

Officer. That apart, there are several documents. 10. Sum and substance of evidence of PW1 is that, he was

working as Secretary from 2002 to 2007. That, on 05.05.2007 Yashwant

Rama Mhaske had prepared consent letter without authority, had caused

signature over the said letter and had prepared false documents in the

name of his wife Pramila Yashwant and had borrowed loan to the tune of

Rs.2,25,000/- in the name of his society that too by executing mortgage

deed before Sub-Registrar and further accused preparing sale deed of the

property in the name of his wife and hence he filed complaint in the

court of law. While under cross, he admitted that, to remove a person,

who is already a member of the society, resolution of the society is -6- ALS-59-2018

required. In paragraph 6 of the cross, he has admitted that name of the

accused figures in the list of members of the Sanjay Gruh Nirman

Sanstha. He also admitted that, Bungalow no.16-b stands in the name of

accused and he had purchased the said bunglow by accused no.1 and he

also resides therein. He further answered that, Sanjay Gruh Nirman

Sanstha is given on mortgage to Maharashtra Housing society. He is

unable to state whether at the time of complaint any charge was created

with regard to the bungalow over the 7/12 extract. He admitted that

there was no notice to him by either society or the bank. He also

expressed his ignorance regarding name of Mhaske recorded over

Bungalow no.16-b in the municipality record. PW2 Annasaheb does not seem to have supported

prosecution as well as PW1 as he showed his ignorance about any loan

transaction, sale deed as well as mortgage deed being executed. PW3 is the Investigating Officer, but he does not seem to

have carried out investigation about alleged fabrication of manufactured

documents and its authenticity does not seem to have been verified by

consulting any expert. Even bank does not seem to have questioned the

authenticity of the documents and had rather extended loan by

mortgaging the property. -7- ALS-59-2018

 Likewise, Investigating Officer has also admitted that he

failed to investigate as to who was the exact secretary in the month of

2005 when alleged events had taken place. 11. No doubt, learned trial court which was the court of first

instance, had recorded conviction of the accused, respondents herein, but

on going through said judgment, it transpires that, failure of accused to

take up particular defence or admission under section 313 of Cr.P.C. are

taken into account while accepting the case of prosecution. Such

approach was against the criminal jurisprudence. Even the papers which

were placed on record, were not proved to be fabricated or manufactured

that too by accused himself. Therefore, learned first appellate has rightly

interfered by according acquittal. Necessary ingredients for attracting the

charges were not available in the evidence of prosecution. 12. No case being made out on merits to accord leave, the same

is refused. The application is rejected. (ABHAY S. WAGHWASE, J.)

Tandale