1. This is a revision petition filed by the Petitioner (Original defendant No. 1) against the opponents. The opponent No. 1 is the original plaintiff and the opponents Nos. 2 to 4 are the original defendants, Nos. 2 to 4. This revision petition is filed under Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code against the order passed by the learned 2nd Joint Civil Judge, Junior Division, Rajkot in a Civil Suit No. 427 of 1967 below exhibit 37 directing the petitioner to give inspection of all documents referred to in his affidavit Exh. 23 to the plaintiff and to take copies thereof on or before 7-3-1968. 2. The advocates appearing on behalf of the opponents M/s. J.R. Nanavati and H. M. Mehta raised a preliminary objection regarding the maintainability of this revision petition under Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code. The preliminary objection is raised on two grounds:-- In brief the second objection is that there has been no illegality committed by the Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction. It also cannot be said that the Court has acted with material irregularity in the exercise of its jurisdiction. At the most it could be said that there has been an error of law committed in the decision given and hence Clause (c) of Section 115 of Civil Procedure Code could not have any application. In support of the preliminary objection, reliance is mainly placed on the decision of a Division Bench of this Court in the case of Shah Prabhudas Ishwardas v. Shah Bhogilal Nathalal , 1967-8 Guj LR 649 = (AIR 1968 Guj 236). 3. Before I advert to the decision cited above, in support of the contention regarding preliminary objection, I first propose to refer to the relevant provisions of Order 11, Rule 18 and Order 11, Rule 20 of the Civil Procedure Code which are material for our purposes. Material part of Order 11, Rule 18 runs as under :-- (2) "Any application to inspect documents, except such as are referred to in the pleadings, particulars or affidavits of the party against whom the application is made or disclosed in his affidavit of documents shall be founded upon an affidavit showing of what documents inspection is sought, that the party applying is entitled to inspect them, and that they are in the possession or power of the other party. The Court shall not make such order for inspection of such documents when and so far as the Court shall be of opinion that it is not necessary either for disposing fairly of the suit or for saving costs." 4. The material part of Order 11, Rule 20 for our purpose runs as under:-- In the instant case, it is the case of the opponents that the petitioner is the power of attorney holder. The suit is for rendition of accounts in relation to the acts done by the petitioner in his capacity as a power of attorney holder of the opponents and for recovering the sum that may be found due on taking accounts. The petitioner has challenged the factum of his holding a power of attorney for the opponents. It is significant to note that the opponent No. 1 has filed the suit in question. The opponent No. 1 had sought for discovery of documents on an affidavit. The Court ordered the petitioner to file an affidavit of documents and accordingly discovery was made. Thereafter the opponent No. 1 gave an application Exh. 37 for inspection of the documents referred to in the affidavit of documents and to permit him to take copies. The petitioner raised an objection in regard to inspection of those documents. The Court overruled his objection and passed the impugned order. 5. In regard to the preliminary objection on the first ground, the learned Advocates for the opponents strenuously contended that the interlocutory order must be an order deciding directly or indirectly, a right or obligation pleaded in a suit meaning thereby a claim made in the plaint and denied in the written statement or vice versa. In brief an impugned order must be an order which must have an effect on such right or claim directly or indirectly and if such a controversy is the subject matter of the impugned decision, it could be said that it is a case decided within the meaning of those words referred to in Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code. The learned advocate Mr. Mehta urged that the word 'controversy' referred to in the decision of a Division Bench of this High Court was not a controversy of the nature contemplated by the provisions of Order 11 Rules 18 and 20. In brief his contention was that the controversy contemplated was a controversy which is likely to be the subject-matter of the decision in regard to the rights or obligations arising out of the pleadings meaning thereby that it must be a controversy in relation to the rights pleaded or obligations arising in the suit itself. There are several matters which could be the subject-matters of controversy, as for example a right to recover the suit amount, a right to take accounts, an obligation to render accounts meaning thereby a liability to render accounts. If there is any such controversy and the court has decided such a controversy arising between the parties, that decision could be said to be a case decided within the meaning of Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code. The present controversy is not of that nature: it is a controversy where one party claims a right of inspection and the other objects to it on the ground that it is not necessary for disposing fairly of the suit or for saving costs. It could not, therefore, amount to a case decided. 6. Before I advert to the decision of a Division Bench of this Court relied upon by the learned advocate for the opponents, I first propose to refer to the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of S.S. Khanna v. F.J. Dillon , AIR 1964 SC 497, as a Division Bench of this Court also has laid down a certain ratio relying upon the said decision of the Supreme Court. His Lordship Shah J. speaking for himself and Sarkar J. after referring to Clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code has observed as under:-- After referring to several decisions of the various High Courts in Para (8?) it has been observed as under :-- At page 501 in para. 11, it has been observed:-- No doubt their Lordships had to deal with a case in relation to a decision given by the subordinate Judge by an interlocutory order that the suit filed by the plaintiff, for recovery of the amount advanced to the defendant, was not maintainable; it was manifestly a decision having a direct bearing on the right of the plaintiff to a decree for recovery of the loan alleged to have been advanced by him which he says the defendant agreed to repay, and if the expression "case" includes a part of the case, the order of the Subordinate Judge must be regarded as a "case which has been decided." At the same time it could not be said that it is a ratio of the Supreme Court decision that the controversy decided must be a controversy of the nature as has been sought to be urged by the learned advocate appearing on behalf of the opponents. 7. Mr. Mehta invited my attention to the observations made by his Lordship Shah J. at p. 505. Those observations are as under :-- These observations in my opinion do not restrict the meaning of the word controversy as has been sought to be urged. In the decision of a Division Bench of this- Court after referring to the observations made in the aforesaid Supreme Court decision, at pages 653-654 (of Guj LR) = (at p, 238 of AIR), the following observations have been made by Bhagwati J. (as he then was) speaking for the Division Bench:-- 8. The learned advocate Shri Mehta has laid emphasis on these observations and urged relying upon certain observations made in para 5 to which I will make reference presently that the said controversy must be in regard to the right or obligation claimed or pleaded by the party in a suit meaning thereby in the plaint or in the written statement. There are observations in para 5 as under- It is no doubt true that in that case , the decision which was sought to be revised was a decision which would have a direct and immediate impact on the right of the plaintiffs to recover the amount claimed. The case had to be decided in relation to the facts of that case. In my opinion the ratio laid down in that decision does not necessarily indicate that in a case like the present case where the controversy between the parties is in regard to a right to inspection or an obligation of giving inspection, a decision in regard to such controversy will not amount to a case decided. The decision does not expressly lay down such a position of law and that position is also not by necessary implication indicated in that decision. 9. The learned advocate Mr. Shah appearing for the petitioner relied upon a decision of Raju J. in the case of Shantilal Chunnilal Shah v. Shantilal Fulchand , 1963-4 Guj LR 698 = (AIR 1963 Guj 195). It has been observed hi that decision that an order passed on an interlocutory application amounts to a "case decided." The fact that the third clause of Section 115 Civil Procedure Code, refers to the powers of revision where the subordinate Court acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity would show that the words "case decided" would include an order passed by a subordinate Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction and which is not the final order. In the body of the judgment at p. 699 (of Guj LR) = (at p. 196 of AIR), decisions of several High Courts have been referred to by Raju J. and the following observations have been made:-- After referring to the provisions of Section 115 of Civil Procedure Code at p. 700 (of Guj LR) = (at p. 197 of AIR) It has been observed that the words 'case decided1 have not been defined in the Civil Procedure Code. The word 'case' is also not denned in the Civil Procedure Code. But the fact that the third clause of Section 115, Civil Procedure Code, refers to the powers of revision where the subordinate Court acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity would show that the words 'case decided' would include an order passed by a subordinate Court in exercise of its jurisdiction and which is not the final order. It has been observed by their Lordships of the Supreme Court in Chaube Jagdish Prasad v. Ganga Pra-sad, AIR 1959 SC 492 at p. 497 as follows: 10. In a later decision in the case of Lallubhai Virchand v. Ratilal Bhikhabhal , 1967-8 Guj LR 851, Raju J. has observed:-- No doubt that case was decided by Raju J. on 8-2-1963. The ratio of that decision is the same as that in the earlier decision of his. 11. A Division Bench of the Lahore High Court in the case of Sadaaat Ali v. Mohammed Sajjad Ali, AIR 1929 Lah 257 has observed: The Bombay High Court has also taken the same view in the case of Bai Atrani V. Deepsing Baria , 17 Bom LR 1097 = (AIR 1915 Bom 269). A Division Bench of the Bombay High Court has observed: The Lahore High Court has also In the case of Harichand Anand & Co. v. Singer Manufacturing Co., AIR 1933 Lah 1046, observed:-- 12. A single Judge of the Nagpur High Court had an occasion to interpret the word "case" referred to in section 25 of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act in the case of Laxmanrao Trimbakrao v. Gayadin Sheo Prasad, AIR 1937 Nag 136. At P. 137 observations made in 27 Nag LR 251 = (A1R 1931 Nag 17) have been quoted end it is held "the word 'case' in Section 115 Civil Procedure Code, is wide enough to cover an interlocutory order and therefore it should also be wide enough in Section 25 , Provincial Small Cause Courts Act" 13. It has been next contended that it cannot be said that the Court has acted illegally or with material irregularity in exercise of its jurisdiction and eventually the provisions of Clause (c) of Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code could not be pressed into service. It was contended that it could be at the most said that there was an erroneous decision given by the subordinate Court. It may be an error of law. It may be that the decision may be a wrong decision. It may be that the discretion vested in the Court under Order 11, Rule 18 of the Civil Procedure Code may have been wrongly exercised. In brief it was urged that it was a question relating to the erroneous exercise of discretion vested in the court and this Court, therefore, cannot revise the order In question. Emphasis was laid on the wordings of Order 11, Rule 18 which I have referred to in an earlier part of the judgment. I need not repeat the same. It is urged that the Court has got the initial jurisdiction to make an order for inspection or to refuse to make an order for inspection. For exercise of the jurisdiction two conditions were necessary: If both these conditions are satisfied and they have been satisfied in the instant case, the Court has jurisdiction to pass an order for inspection. That being the position it could only be said that the Court committed an error in making an order for inspection. It could, therefore, be at the most said that it is wrong decision. It may be that the discretion has been wrongly used. It is urged that the proviso referred to in Sub-rule (1) of Order 11, Rule 18 or in Sub-rule (2) of it postulates that the court has jurisdiction to make such an order. Proviso only deals with the manner in which the discretion is to be used. It states that the order shall not be made when and so far as the Court shall be of the opinion that it is not necessary either for disposing fairly of the suit or for saving costs. It is, therefore, contended that the order is really an order in relation to the exercise of the discretion vested in the Court. The provisions of Clause (c) of Section 115 cannot, therefore, have any application. In my opinion a careful reading of the relevant wordings of this Rule 18 of Order 11 does not indicate this contention to be a well-founded contention. It is true that two conditions referred to have been satisfied. If those two conditions are satisfied, the Court has been given a discretion to make an order for inspection in such place and in such manner as it may think fit. It is left entirely to the discretion of the Court as to whether inspection be given and as to how it should be given. At the same time by inserting a proviso, the power of the court is circumscribed by the proviso. It is stated that the order shall not be made when and so far as the Court shall be of opinion that it is not necessary either for disposing fairly of the suit or for saving costs. It is not necessary either for disposing fairly of the suit or for saving costs. It is in my opinion a clear indication that there are fetters to the exercise of power by the Court. The Court has to keep this proviso in its upper-most mind. It is only when those fetters are not there, that court can order inspection in such place and in such manner as it may think fit. In my opinion the powers vested in the Court are circumscribed. Before the court therefore, makes any such order, the court must find that the order of inspection is necessary either for disposing fairly of the suit or for saving costs, as the Court is enjoined not to pass such an order if it is of opinion that it is not necessary either for disposing fairly of the suit or for saving costs. Furthermore, the Court has to take into account the provisions of Order 11, Rule 20. If it is a case of premature discovery, the court is empowered to pass an order of inspection in the manner referred to in this Rule 20. It indicates that in certain circumstances referred to therein passing of an order for inspection has got to be postponed till the determination of any issue or question in dispute. It is also necessary to see whether for any other reason it is desirable that any issue or question in dispute should be determined before deciding upon the right to the discovery or inspection. If it is so the Court has to order that such issue or question be determined first and reserve the question as to discovery or inspection. If the Court ignores these provisions that restrict and circumscribe the powers vested in the Court, in my opinion, it is not merely a case of wrong decision on a question of fact or law or a case of erroneous exercise of discretion. It is really a case where the court has acted illegally or with material irregularity in the exercise of its jurisdiction. 14. The learned Advocate Mr. Nanavati invited my attention to the case of Razia Begum v. Sahabzadi Anwar Begum . AIR 1958 SC 886. It has been observed therein:-- In my opinion this decision on its careful reading does not lend support to the argument advanced by Mr. Nanavati, On the contrary it lends support to my conclusion. It is stated therein:-- The controversy may be as well in regard to the power of the Court in regard to certain matters like present one. 15. Mr. Nanavati also invited my attention to the comments made by the learned author Mr. Mulla in his book --Code of Civil procedure, Thirteenth Edition, Vol. I, page 515 under the caption "No revision from discretionary orders." The comments to which reference was made by him are as under:-- 16. Still the question remains whether the order was within the power of the Court. Order 11, Rule 18 to which reference is made earlier clearly indicates that there is no power vested in the Court to order for inspection if the Court is of opinion that it is not necessary either for disposing fairly of the suit or for saving costs. The court has, therefore, got to find that the order is necessary either for disposing fairly of the suit or for saving costs. If that is not the position, the court has no power to order for inspection. Furthermore, the Court cannot exercise such powers in certain cases for the time being, if the case is covered by Rule 20 of Order 11 of the Civil Procedure Code. If the Court ignoring these provisions or in the absence of anything in the order to indicate that it has applied its mind to those provisions, he has passed an order, it could be said that the court has acted illegally or with material irregularity in the exercise of its jurisdiction. The present case is a case of that type. 17. The learned Advocate Shri Nanavati invited my attention to the observations made by a Division Bench of this Court in the aforesaid decision 1967-8 Guj LR 649 para 8 = (AIR 1968 Guj 236 para 8). The relevant observations are as under :-- 18. It is clear from these observations that a mere error of law in the exercise of jurisdiction is not enough. What is necessary is that the subordinate Court must have acted illegally, that is, in breach of some provision of law or with material irregularity, that is, by committing some error of procedure in the course of trial which is material in that it may have affected the ultimate decision. Vide also 76 Ind App 67 = (AIR 1949 PC 156). This is the test which must be applied in order to determine whether the case falls within Clause (c) of Section 115. That ratio indicated by a Division Bench of this Court is a ratio indicated in several decisions of the Supreme Court. The Division Bench had to deal with a case where the question was, whether the document Ex. 4/1 was a promissory note within the meaning of Section 2(22) of the Stamp Act; it would be clearly an error of law but that error of law did not have relation to and was not concerned with the jurisdiction of the subordinate Court. In the present case, that is not the position. As stated earlier, the Court has been empowered to order inspection of documents referred to, in the pleadings etc., with a proviso added that the power shall not be used if the Court is of opinion that inspection is not necessary for disposing fairly of the suit or for saving costs. It is, therefore, evident that unless one of those conditions is satisfied, the Court has no power to order for inspection of such documents. If the Court ignoring these provisions and also ignoring provisions of Order 11, Rule 20, passes an order, it could be said without any doubt that the court has acted illegally or with material irregularity in the exercise of its jurisdiction. Clause (c) of Section 115 would, therefore, be attracted. I, therefore, overrule the preliminary objection and hold that this objection is not tenable. 19. The impugned order has been referred to in extenso in the earlier part of the judgment. The only ground mentioned by the learned Subordinate Judge in support of his order is that this provision for inspection is to avoid hardships to other parties. There is nothing in his order to indicate that he had applied his mind to the provisions that the Court had no power to order inspection if it is of opinion that it is not necessary either for disposing of the suit fairly or for saving costs. There is no mention made that the order of inspection passed is necessary either for disposing of the suit fairly or for saving costs. There is nothing also in the order itself which by necessary implication would indicate that these relevant and material provisions were kept in mind by the Court, when the impugned order was passed. Similar is the position regarding provisions found in Order 11, Rule 20. The Court has not applied its mind at all to these relevant and material provisions of Order 11, Rule 18 and Rule 20. The order, therefore, cannot be sustained in law. The learned Advocate Mr. Shah appearing on behalf of the petitioner has fairly stated that this Court would be justified only in sending the matter back to the Court directing the Court to pass an appropriate order keeping in mind the provisions of these two rules. In support of his arguments on merits, he has invited my attention to the decision in the case of Bagyalakshmi Ammal v. Srinivasa Reddiar, AIR 1960 Mad 510. The relevant observations made therein are as under:-- 20. As the matter has got to be remanded for deciding whether inspection should be granted or not, keeping in view the provisions of Order 11, Rule 18 and Rule 20 of the Civil Procedure Code, it will not be proper for this Court to indicate its mind on this controversial question. The Court has to consider whether in a suit like the present suit where the factum of holding of power of attorney by the petitioner is challenged and the question whether there is a liability to render accounts is in issue, such inspection should be ordered or not or it should be postponed till that question is decided. 21. It was opponent No. 1 who had sought for inspection of the documents in question. It will, therefore, be proper to order him to pay the costs of the petitioner in this revision petition. It will not be proper to order other opponents to pay the costs of the petitioner in this revision petition. They have appeared as they have been joined as opponents. No doubt, opponent No. 4 has sought to support the order of the Court below, but that will not make any difference. 22. The revision petition is allowed. The order passed by the Court below Ex. 37 dated 20-2-1968 is set aside and the Court below is directed to decide that application in the light of the directions given above. Rule is modified. 23. The opponent No. 1 to pay the costs of the petitioner in this revision petition. The opponents to bear their own costs.