NARAYAN ALIAS NARAYAN SAI ASHARAM ALIAS AASHUMAL
 HARPALANI....Applicant(s)
 Versus
 STATE OF GUJARAT....Respondent(s)
================================================================
Appearance: 2. Though complaint is filed on 6.10.2013, the period of commission
of offence is disclosed as "between December, 2001 till the Holy of the
year 2002 and repeatedly thereafter". The bare reading of the complaint
makes it clear that certainly a victim needs courage to disclose all such
details. Though, it is argued by the applicant against her conduct after
alleged period of commission of offence till filing of FIR since during Page 1 of 18 R/CR.MA/16359/2014 CAV ORDER

such period at some point of time, she was attached with the activities of
the applicant in his Ashrams as an Administrator and she has married in
between to some third person and had approached the applicant for
worshipping them and to get their blessings, thereby claiming intimacy
and thus implied consent of the victim, reading of FIR reveals that there
are certain allegations against the applicant, which for the sake of brevity
need not be required to be produced in every next document in sequence
like present judgment, but such details certainly results in nothing, but an
insult of a women. However, so far as allegations in FIR are concerned, at
least it is to be noted that it is pertaining to commission of offence of rape
by applicant being in a position or control or dominance over the victim
with allegation regarding unnatural offences, since there is allegation of
intercourse against the order of nature, with assault and criminal force to
victim with intention to outrage her modesty with assault or criminal
force in wrongfully confining the victim in custody for committing
above-referred offence with allegation of wrongful confinement in a
secret place with other offences and threats to kill if such fact is disclosed
to anyone. There is no dispute that applicant is holding dominance not
only upon the victim, but upon large group of common men, many of
them are his strong believers and followers, whereas many of them are
relying upon the applicant and trust him and consider him as God or
atleast next to God. It is also not disputed that considering the submission
of learned senior counsel Mr.N.D.Nanavaty for the applicant that though
they do not admit commission of any offence as alleged in the FIR by the
applicant, their defence is mainly on following issues:- 3. In view of such primary scenario, now we have to examine the
rival submissions, both in favour of the applicant to confirm his bail and Page 2 of 18 R/CR.MA/16359/2014 CAV ORDER

material against him, which has restrained the competent Court to grant
bail in his favour till date. 4. Since this is an application for bail, only prima facie evidence is
needed to be scrutinized. Thereby, evidence in the form of chargesheet
and police papers, which are available at present, cannot be scrutinized so
as to conclude the possibility of conviction or otherwise of the accused
after trial, except to scrutinize that whether prima facie evidence discloses
commission of offence as alleged and involvement of accused, in
commission of such offence in any manner whatsoever. If there is
disclosure of commission of offence in the complaint and, thereafter, if
there is prima facie evidence regarding commission of such offence, with
an evidence to prove such commission by the accused and thereby his
involvement in the offence, then, gravity of offence, position of
complainant and victim to safeguard themselves against the repetition of
any such offence by the accused and standard conditions of granting bail,
needs to be examined viz. (1) chance of commission of similar offence by
the accused, (2) possibility of hampering and tampering with the evidence
and the witnesses by the accused, and (3) availability of accused during
the trial i.e. chance of his abscondment etc. 5. In light of above preface, now let us examine the rival submissions
and material on record. Learned senior counsel Mr.N.D.Nanavaty for the
applicant has submitted that the case has been chased by the media and it
became a sensitive issue within the society, and because of the hype in
the media and for some unknown reasons, the investigating agency has
given undue importance to this case. Though there is some substance
either in the complaint or in the evidence so as to consider it as prima
facie commission of offence by the applicant as alleged, it is further
submitted that FIR in question is dated 6.10.2013 with an allegation that
offence in question has been committed from December, 2001 till Holy Page 3 of 18 R/CR.MA/16359/2014 CAV ORDER

of 2012 and at any time thereafter; thereby, a skeleton of so-called
offence has woken up after 12 years, which is nothing, but a gross delay
in filing the complaint and, therefore, in absence of proper explanation
regarding such delay, no cognizance can be taken by the Court and,
hence, the base of the investigation and chargesheet itself is improper,
irregular and illegal. 5.1 It is further submitted that even after the alleged incident and
for all that period she had worked as an Administrator of the Ashram. It is
further submitted that only because one complaint was filed by somebody
against the father of present applicant, probably complainant has with
some ulterior motive filed such complaint against the present applicant
also, though she had remained silent for 12 years and stayed in Ashram
for six years. Against allegation regarding abscondment of the applicant
before initial arrest after lodging of the FIR, it is submitted that applicant
was advised to avail all legal remedies before arrest and, therefore, he had
tried to avail all legal remedies to avoid his arrest and, ultimately, when
he could not succeed in any such attempt, he was arrested on 4.12.2013
and, therefore, it cannot be said that, he was absconder and, hence, not
entitled to bail. Thereby, it is also made clear that applicant is in custody
since 4.12.2013 i.e. almost for 13 months. 5.2 It is further submitted that now investigation is completed and
chargesheet is already filed as back as on 1.3.2014 i.e. before 10 months
and it is already committed to the Court of Sessions on 22.4.2014 i.e.
before 9 months, which is numbered as Sessions Case no.141 of 2014
and, therefore, now, there is no scope of hampering or tampering with the
witnesses by the applicant and thereby he is entitled to bail. It is also
submitted that complainant - victim is aged 31 years on the date of the Page 4 of 18 R/CR.MA/16359/2014 CAV ORDER

FIR and complaint is filed against several persons, including the present
applicant, amongst which except applicant, another 35 persons were
arrested though name of only four persons are disclosed by the
complainant and all those 35 persons are already released on bail,
submitting that such situation shows that investigating agency is
unnecessarily harassing several persons in such a case wherein the
evidence shows that the complainant - victim has never uttered a word
about any such incident for the period of more than 10 years. To
substantiate above argument, the applicant has referred statement of the
complainant within the complaint itself and read out certain lines from
pages 20 to 24 of the record submitting that all such factual details
disclosed by the applicant - victim herself makes it clear that she did not
leave the place even after the alleged incident of rape, whereas any girl
would have left the place if she has been raped or molested as explained
in detail in such complaint. Thereby, it is submitted that the complaint
seems to be unbelievable, when all such details are disclosed after 10
years. Such submissions are with reference to the allegations in the
complaint, which is reproduced on page 26 of the record, but for the sake
of brevity, they are not required to be reproduced herein. 6. It is further submitted that complainant did not leave the place after
such alleged incident, whereas in general, a girl or a lady would have left
the place, and it would be difficult for anybody to give minute details as it
is done by present complainant after 10 years of alleged incident, which
shows keenness of the applicant to state so. It is further submitted that
since alleged incidents are before 10 years, there is no medical
examination of anyone and, therefore, there is no corroborating evidence
at all. It is also submitted that even after such alleged incident, the
complainant has called her sister Sheetal to join the Ashram and both the
sisters have stayed in the Ashram for couple of years till they married in Page 5 of 18 R/CR.MA/16359/2014 CAV ORDER

the year 2010. Therefore, it is not believable that a girl if being raped as
alleged would call her sister also at the same place, if they are not
comfortable with the applicant in his Ashram. 7. It is further alleged that in fact Commissioner of Police is
monitoring the investigation with some personal interest and, therefore,
this becomes a personal case for the investigating agency and, therefore,
several attempts are made to show that applicant has committed grave
offence. However, though there is no evidence available to confirm the
commission of offence as alleged, extra-ordinary care is being taken and
unwarranted statements are recorded only with a view to harass the
applicant. 8. With reference to two other girls (names are not disclosed herein to
avoid further insult and damage to reputation of such girl witnesses), it is
further contended that, in fact, it was a voluntary relationship, if at all it is
proved and that there was offence committed by the applicant. It is also
categorically stated that two real sisters have come forward and alleged
against father and son duo in similar manner regarding commission of
such a serious offence, which shows that in fact it is a motivated
complaint by some group. In addition to such submission on factual
aspects, when bail was rejected by the trial Court because of pendency of
some other cases, at least for the case under the Prevention of Corruption
Act , it is submitted that we have to consider the social set-up of the
country where someone is ready and willing to either bribe for small
needs like getting confirmation of railway ticket to any other thing, if it is
beneficial to such person and, therefore, the entire concept of reverse trap
of payment of bribe by the applicant is nothing but an intelligent show by
the investigating agency to prove that applicant is involved in all such
offences and thereby to see that he may not get the bail in any
circumstance. The details of such other case would be discussed while Page 6 of 18 R/CR.MA/16359/2014 CAV ORDER

considering the arguments of the prosecuting agency. 9. Thereby, in general, the applicant has contented that his custody is
now not warranted on several counts and, therefore, he should be released
on bail. It is submitted that for granting the bail, Court may impose any
condition of any nature, but keeping the applicant in custody even after
filing the chargesheet and considering the submission recorded herein
above, is not only unwarranted, but against the settled principles of
criminal jurisprudence and decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
several cases. Learned senior counsel Mr.Nanavaty for the applicant is
relying upon following decisions emphasizing that there is no
corroboration either from the witnesses or through medical evidence or
FSL report or Panchnama and in absence of corroboration, it would not
be possible to convict the applicant and, therefore, it is submitted that
when there is inordinate delay, absence of proper evidence and no other
antecedence by the applicant and when there is no possibility of
abscondment of applicant or tampering with the evidence by him, since
chargesheet is now already filed, there is no need to continue his custody
and that bail cannot be denied only on apprehension. a. Kishan Singh (dead) through LRS. Vs. Gurpal Singh & Ors.
reported in (2010)8 SCC 775 wherein Supreme Court reiterated the
principles regarding delay in filing FIR holding that where an FIR is
lodged clearly with a view to spite the other party because of a private and
personal grudge and to enmesh the other party in long and arduous
criminal proceedings, the court may take a view that it amounts to an
abuse of the process of law in the facts and circumstances of the case.
Learned senior counsel has referred paragraphs 21, 22 and 24. However,
it is clear and obvious that though there cannot be any question for such
settled legal position, but as emerges from such decision, in fact, the
determination is with reference to the facts and circumstance of that case
as already observed by the Supreme Court itself and what is concluded in
paragraph 25 is also with reference to the observation that FIR was
lodged with sole intention of harassing the respondents. Therefore, in
absence of any such specific evidence that FIR is otherwise malafide and
was lodged because of private or personal grudge and only with a view to Page 7 of 18 R/CR.MA/16359/2014 CAV ORDER

enmesh the applicant, such judgment itself would not help the applicant
to get rid off the prosecution against them. Mere submission of malafide
in complaint is not sufficient, there must be some facts and details to
consider that complainant had reason to file false complaint or her
malafide intention. In absence of such details, the bail application is to be
decided on its own merits. b. Jagannivasan Vs. State of Kerala reported in 1995 Supp(3) SCC
204 wherein Supreme Court has acquitted the person from the charges
u/s.376 when victim did not inform the commission of offence to her
parents immediately after the incident and went to the dancing
performance and though delay in filing of the FIR was only six days, and
more particularly, when she was regularly visiting the house of the
accused. On scrutiny of such judgment, again it becomes clear that the
decision by the Apex Court is purely because of factual details and
evidence before it and, therefore, such judgment would not help the
applicant. c. Rajesh Patel Vs. State of Jharkhand reported in (2013)3 SCC 791
wherein also delay of 11 days was considered fatal and termed as
inordinate delay in lodging the FIR while acquitting the convict for the
offence u/s.376 of the IPC. However, if we scrutinize the judgment, it
becomes clear that acquittal was confirmed because of the fact that
testimony of the victim was unnatural and improper and did not inspire
confidence. Thereby, such decisions were taken after full-fledged trial
and hence at the stage of considering bail application, there cannot be a
presumption on either side. d. Chandralekha & Ors. Vs. State of Rajasthan & Anr. reported in AIR
2013 SCW 3651 wherein delay of 6 years was considered fatal for the
offence u/ss.498A and 406 of the IPC , more particularly when wife was
residing with her husband and not with her in-laws and, therefore, FIR
against the in-laws was quashed by the Supreme Court. However, it would
not help the applicant to confirm the order of bail since offences and
factual details are altogether different. e. Madhavrao Jiwajirao Scindia & Ors. Vs. Sambhajirao
Chandrojirao Angre & Ors. reported in (1988)1 SCC 692 whereinthe
Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that the Court cannot be utilised for any
oblique purpose and in the opinion of the Court when chances of an
ultimate conviction are bleak and no useful purpose is likely to be served
by allowing the criminal prosecution to continue, the Court may while
taking into consideration about the special facts of the case, can quash the Page 8 of 18 R/CR.MA/16359/2014 CAV ORDER

proceedings even at the preliminary stage. There is no question to quash
the complaint, but only for such observation, it cannot be said that
applicant is entitled to bail. f. Sanjay Chandra Vs. CBI reported in 2012(1)GLH 93. Only because
Hon'ble Supreme Court has granted bail to Sanjay Chandra and other
accused in some scam cases, it cannot be said that same principle would
apply to the case of present nature where offences are against humanity
and grave as well as serious in nature. Therefore, it would not help the
accused to secure bail in his favour. g. P.Vijayan Vs. State of Kerala & Anr. reported in (2010)2 SCC 398.
Such judgment is mainly regarding issue of discharge of an accused u/s.326 of the Cr.P.C. and, therefore, it is not of much relevance in this
case. 10. As against that learned Addl.Advocate General Mr.P.K.Jani has
submitted that irrespective of diverse submission by the applicant, the
Court has to see the prima facie case and settled law applicable to bail. It
is submitted that there is no prima facie case in favour of the applicant so
as to release him on bail since statement recorded by the investigating
agency specifically discloses commission of offence as alleged in the
chargesheet by the present applicant and that too in clear and categorical
terms and, therefore, when there is a prima facie evidence against the
applicant so as to convict him for the alleged offences and when there is
seriousness and gravity of such offence and considering the position of
the applicant and the fact that he has committed the offence with the girls,
who are otherwise in his influence, if not in control and though victims
are not minor, practically, being a religious head, he was in charge and
having dominance over the girls and, therefore, he has committed rape as
a relative or guardian or teacher or a person in position of trust or
authority towards women and even as a owner or management leader of
his staff or atleast in control or dominance over the women and, therefore,
he has committed a serious offence. R/CR.MA/16359/2014 CAV ORDER 11. So far as delay in filing the complaint is concerned, it is submitted
that the limitation for such offence would be practically unlimited as
provided under the law and that there are catena of judgments by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court, which confirms that such type of complaint can
be lodged even after such long delay. Learned Addl.Advocate General
has read out several statements including statement of victim, wife of the
applicant, inmates of the Ashram, relatives of both the sides, security
guards and even followers of the applicant. It is also submitted that
considering the age of the victim being 18 years only at the relevant time,
it is quite obvious that she is under the influence of the applicant and,
therefore, crime against her is serious in nature and no fault can be found
from such a victim for not coming forward immediately after the incident. 12. A reference was also made to the case of applicant's father,
namely, Asaram Bapu submitting that similar request by him has been
negatived even by Hon'ble Supreme Court. Reference was because of the
reason that the present complainant has got the courage to lodge such
complaint even after long delay when similar complaint was lodged
against father of the present applicant and so far as delay is concerned, it
is submitted that since parents of the victim are followers of the applicant
and his father, this 18 years old girl could not gather the courage due to
social disturbance to lodge a complaint at the relevant time and more
particularly because of dominating position of the applicant and his
father. 13. It is further submitted that as many as six other FIRs are registered
against the applicant or because of the disturbance created by the
followers of the applicant and amongst them one is for killing the key
witness and others are for injuring the key witnesses. List of those other
FIRs are as under:- 14. It is further submitted that atleast one of the witness has been killed
and three other witnesses have been seriously injured by the followers of
the applicant whereas IPS officer has been threatened to kill and a huge
amount of bribe i.e. Rs.8 Crores was offered by the applicant so as to
distribute it amongst the police officers as well as during judicial
proceedings in Court so as to confirm his bail and acquittal. Thereby, it is
submitted that tendency of the applicant is to take law in his hands and,
therefore, the applicant is not entitled to bail. 15. While referring several statements learned Addl.Advocate General
has also referred the statement of Devendra Satish Shinde and Chayaben
Chaudhari as well as SMS by the applicant confirming his activities,
which certainly results into commission of an offence of rape when it is
not by consent and under either of the provision of law when he is having
a dominating position over the victim. R/CR.MA/16359/2014 CAV ORDER 16. Thereby, it is submitted by learned Addl.Advocate General that all
the ingredients for granting the bail is not in favour of the applicant
inasmuch as he was absconding for couple of months and evidence has
been disturbed by his followers and there is every possibility of fleeing
away by the applicant, if he is released on bail, so as to avoid to face the
trial and the conviction and, therefore, requests to reject the bail
application. 17. Learned Addl.Advocate General has relied upon several citations,
details of which are briefly referred hereunder:- Whereas with reference to the case of P.Vijayan (supra), it is submitted
that the FIR and proceedings were initiated after 28 years of the incident. The Supreme Court has allowed to continue the proceeding by refusing to
discharge the accused u/s.227 of the Cr.P.C. b. Uday Shankar Awasthi Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. reported
in (2013)2 SCC 435 wherein Supreme Court has held that delay may not
be the sole ground for dismissing the complaint at threshold and that in
certain exceptional circumstances, taking into consideration gravity of
charges, delay can be ignored. Though in such reported cases, ultimately,
complaint was quashed, if we peruse the factual details, it was not on the
ground of delay, but it was on the ground of factual details that it was
subsequent and thereby second complaint for the same incident. c. Japani Sahoo Vs. Chandra Sekhar Mohanty reported in (2007)7
SCC 394, wherein also the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that mere
delay in approaching a Court of law is not a ground for dismissing the
complaint, considering the general rule of criminal jurisprudence that "a
crime never dies". The principle is reflected in the well- known maxim
nullum tempus aut locus occurrit regi (lapse of time is no bar to Crown in
proceeding against offenders). reported in AIR 2004 SC 1866wherein bail granted by the High Court was
set-aside by the Supreme Court stating that High Court was not justified in
granting bail on the ground that accused has been in custody for period of
3-1/2 years or that there is no likelihood of trial being concluded in near
future without taking into consideration the factors referred to in such
judgment. Such circumstances are listed in paragraph 11, which reads as
under:- e. State through reference Vs. Ram Singh & Ors. in Death Sentence
Reference no.6/2013 a wellknown case of Nirbhaya in recent past and read
over certain observations by the Apex Court in previous cases, which are
reproduced by the Delhi High Court, I do not want to reproduce all such
paragraphs, but it cannot be ignored that such fact is applicable in almost
all cases of rape. f. Tarun Tejpal Vs. State of Goa in Special Leave to Appeal (Criminal)
nos.3149 and 3150 of 2014 dated 1.7.2014 wherein the Apex Court has
granted bail to Tarun Tejpal against whom similar charges are levelled.
However, such judgment without considering the factual details of that
case, which is not available though copy of order is annexed as Annexure
D with the petition itself. 18. I have perused the available record and considered the rival
submissions. It is clear and certain at irrespective of all other
submissions, the allegations against the applicant are of serious nature
inasmuch as if at all he has committed such an offence as alleged, then,
he can never be pardoned for the simple reason that he has taken
disadvantage of his position and his power, created by him and his Page 13 of 18 R/CR.MA/16359/2014 CAV ORDER

followers. It cannot be ignored that such religious heads are holding good
control over the public at large because of their will and mind-power and,
therefore, they are able to drag the people with them. For such reasons, if
victim is under mental control of the applicant for such long time and if
during such period, if victim was worshiping the applicant and his father
and, thereafter, served under them, the position of the applicant is that of
a guardian and, therefore, commission of any offence as alleged would
certainly be a serious issue. Even if we consider it as a unhappy situation
or proposition, the fact and law is clear that even if there is consent by a
woman for sexual relationship and even if such relation is for a long time,
but at the given point of time if there is sexual harassment of any woman
without her consent, then, the person who has committed such sexual
offence, cannot escape and is not entitled to the defence of consent.
Whereas in the present case, so far as consent is concerned, it is the
defence put forward by the applicant - accused, thereby, there is no
specific clear admission of consent by the victim. Even for the sake of
argument, if we believe that being in such a relationship for couple of
years amounts to consent, the fact remains that if victim - girl complains
about sexual harassment and more particularly commission of offence of
rape and when there was no consent by her immediately before or at the
time of such physical intercourse, it may amount to commission of an
offence of rape. 19. Therefore, if we scrutinize the entire bunch of chargesheet i.e.
police papers, it becomes clear that there is prima facie allegations of
serious nature against the applicant. The other circumstance also
confirms that applicant has a tendency to break the law inasmuch as
he has tried to offer bribe of Rs.8 Crores, his followers killed the
witnesses and he has even administered threat to the IPS officer, who
was investigating the case and, therefore, if he is released on bail,
there is every possibility of breach of peace either by the applicant or Page 14 of 18 R/CR.MA/16359/2014 CAV ORDER

his followers and, hence, there is no case made out in favour of the
applicant so as to release him on bail. Though there is no specific
evidence to that effect at present, the possibility of fleeing away if
released on bail so as to avoid the trial and conviction if offence is
proved, will also restrict the Court to release the applicant on bail. 20. In view of above discussion, it becomes clear that no case is made
out by the applicant so as to release him on bail. Though, it would not be
proper to discuss the factual material, which is before the Court since it
would otherwise prejudice the trial, but it is made clear that for such
decision, this Court has relied upon all the statements, which are referred
by both the sides, which makes it clear that there is sufficient evidence
against the applicant to proceed against him and in view of such facts and
circumstances, there is no substance in the application. 21. Before parting with the matter, a reference is to be made to the
order dated 5.1.2015 by co-ordinate Bench in Criminal Misc.Application
no.11220 of 2014 wherein Hon'ble Court (Coram: Hon'ble Mr.Justice
A.J.Desai) has dealt with similar aspect while rejecting the bail
application of the father of the present applicant. I am in agreement with
the reasonings for such litigation, but I do not want to reproduce the same
herein. It cannot be ignored that some accused, who were involved in
conspiracy of greater offences committed by the applicant, have remained
absconded since filing of the complaint and investigating agency could
not trace them out till 5.1.2014 when Special A.P.P. had to request the
trial Court to segregate the trial for such accused nos.6 to 8, so as to
proceed against remaining accused. 22. As already recorded herein above, it is not advisable to reproduce
the allegations in verbatim from the police record. However, it is to be
made clear that on scrutiny of such statements, which are referred and
relied upon by Addl.Advocate General, there is disclosure in categorical Page 15 of 18 R/CR.MA/16359/2014 CAV ORDER

terms about nature of sexually harassing the women by the applicant and
his father through their religious activities in their Ashrams. It is settled
legal position that at the time of deciding bail application, possibility of
acquittal or conviction is not to be looked into, but gravity of charges are
to be considered based upon the prima facie evidence and as recorded
herein above, there is certainly more than one prima facie evidence in the
form of different statements by different witnesses to confirm that
applicant has committed such serious offence. It cannot be ignored that
investigating agency has to chase the applicant, who was avoiding his
arrest for a pretty long time and, therefore, his explanation that he was
hiding himself so as to avail legal remedy, does not help him. If at all he
is innocent, he should have surrendered to the judicial authority at the
earliest and co-operated the investigation. On the contrary, the fact is
different inasmuch as he has not only hide and seek and allowed the
police/investigating agency to trace him at different places before he
could be arrested, and his followers have involved in several other
offences to save his skin. All these facts certainly goes against him. It
cannot be ignored that applicant has already withdrawn Special Criminal
Application (Quashing) no.3103 of 2013 to quash the FIR against him
and, therefore, now when chargesheet is filed, if there is sufficient
evidence against him, what is required to be considered is the principles
governing the order of bail rather than detailed evidence as discussed
herein above. The activities by the applicant and his followers is certainly
of such a nature, which restrains this Court from exercising the
discretionary jurisdiction of granting the bail to the applicant. 23. So far as release of several other accused on bail are concerned,
since copies of such bail applications are annexed with such bail
application, it does not help the applicant inasmuch as if there is no
material substance to continue their custody, those accused might have
been released on bail. However, only because they are released on bail, it Page 16 of 18 R/CR.MA/16359/2014 CAV ORDER

cannot be said that applicant is also entitled to bail, considering the
allegations and activities of the applicant, which is disclosed in
chargesheet as well as summarised in the above paragraphs. 24. I have also perused the judgment and order dated 16.7.2014 by the
Addl.Sessions Judge, Surat in Criminal Misc.Application no.1796 of
2014 refusing bail to the applicant. Though such application is u/s.439 of
the Cr.P.C., which can be decided independently from such judgment, it
cannot be ignored that the learned Sessions Judge has taken care of each
and every aspect of this issue and explained the factual details as well as
relied upon the citations referred by the parties before it for refusing the
bail. I am in agreement with observation and determination in such order
and, therefore, there is no reason to deviate from such decision, which is
based upon facts and law applicable to the present case. 25. It is settled legal position that for granting bail what is required to
be considered is practically gravity of offence, nature and punishment,
apprehension of tampering with witnesses or apprehension of threat to the
complainant and/or witnesses and prima facie satisfaction of the Court in
support of the charge. Therefore, if we scrutinize the entire record, it is
certain that there is prima facie evidence against the applicant for
confirming the commission of offence as per the charge levelled against
him. Once there is a prima facie evidence regarding the alleged charges,
nature of such accusation is certainly serious and if all the witnesses are
allowed to depose without fear or favour, then, conviction and
punishment is certain. Whereas the attitude and activities by the applicant
is now clear that he has not only involved himself in one bribe case to get
rid-off such charges and that one witness has been killed and three others
seriously injured, even the investigating officer was threatened, therefore,
there is no ground in favour of the applicant so as to release him on bail.
Therefore, there is no substance in the application and, hence, same is
dismissed.