1. Aggrieved by the orders dated 28.01.2013 passed by the
 Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum-VII in CC-717/2009 in the
 matter of Amit Kumar Ghosh versus ICICI Bank Limited , holding the

(FA-549/2013) M/S ICICI BANK LIMITED VERSUS MR. AMIT KUMAR GHOSH PAGE 1 OF 5
 Bank deficient and issuing a direction to them to pay Rs. 1,25,000/-
 along with interest @ 10% p.a. to the complainant from 16.01.2008 till
 realisation as also a sum of Rs. 40,000/- as compensation along with
 Rs. 10,000/- cost of litigation, the ICICI Bank Limited have preferred
 an appeal before this Commission, for short appellant, under Section
 15 of the Consumer Protection Act 1986, the Act, assailing the said
 order, against Sh. Amit Kumar Ghosh, hereinafter referred to as
 respondent, alleging that the order impugned has been passed
 without appreciating the evidence and other necessary facts and
 praying for setting aside the order since not sustainable. 2. Facts of the case necessary for the adjudication of the appeal
 are these. 3. The respondent is a Corporate Salary account holder of the
 appellant and user of the internet banking facility. On 16.01.2009, the
 respondent received five sms alerts on his mobile regarding five times
 debit of Rs. 25,000/- from his account each time and the respondent
 thereafter lodged a complaint alleging that the said transactions have
 not been done by him. The appellant on receipt of the complaint had
 conducted an inquiry and after the inquiry the respondents were duly
 informed that it was a case of fraud and cheating done by some
 fraudsters. It was further reported that the bank was in no way
 deficient and thus no compensation can be claimed or allowed. It was
 also observed that the possibility of connivance of the respondent in
 the alleged fraud cannot be ruled out. They may have shared the
 personal information with some stranger. 4. The stand of the bank not accepting the request made by the
 respondent/complainant led to filing of a complaint before the District
 Forum which complaint having been allowed this appeal has been
 preferred by the bank on the ground that the District Forum has erred
 in passing the impugned order in wrongful exercise of jurisdiction and
 material irregularity. Secondly, the District Forum while passing the
 impugned order had acted beyond its jurisdiction since the impugned
 order was passed mechanically without any application of mind based
 on the averments made without considering of the evidence,
 examination, cross examination of witness on oath, production of
 documents to such effect and that such adjudication of issues of
 fraud in regard to automated, mechanical transactions falls beyond
 the scope of the ld. Forum. Thirdly, the District Forum failed to
 appreciate the fact that the user ID, banking password/T Pin is in the
 exclusive custody of the respondent and highly confidential and
 without his knowledge or consent the amount in his account cannot
 be transferred in any other person's account. Fourthly, the Forum has
 failed to appreciate the fact that the appellant shall not be liable for

(FA-549/2013) M/S ICICI BANK LIMITED VERSUS MR. AMIT KUMAR GHOSH PAGE 2 OF 5
 any unauthorised transaction in the account through the use of
 internet/phone banking services which can be attributed to the
 fraudulent or negligent conduct of the user. The bank always takes
 care and thus they for any damages caused on account of breach of
 secrecy/confidentiality due to any omission and commission on part
 of the user is beyond the control of the bank. Fifth, the Forum below
 failed to note that the bank officials do not permit/reject the
 internet/phone banking transactions. It is done by the mechanized
 system of the bank which is an automated system and responds only
 to authorised password, user id, ATM Card, T. Pin details etc. Sixth,
 the Forum below wrongly held, without any evidence, that the bank
 officials had connived with the fraudsters and thereby holding the
 appellant to be deficient in services to the respondent/complainant.
 Seventh, ld. Forum failed to consider and appreciate that in Sharad R.
 Khekale versus ICICI Bank Limited, Pune (FA-11/2010 ), the State
 Commission, Mumbai, has held that 'customer was expected to keep
 user Id and password numbers as top secret. He is the only holder of
 the account who knows user id and password numbers. In the instant
 case, request was made for transfer of amount of Rs. 25,000/- by
 using correct user id and password number. The bank was bound to
 follow this request since made on behalf of complainant by using
 exclusive user id and password. The Maharastra State Commission
 upheld the order of the forum and observed that: 5. Respondent were noticed and in response thereto they have filed
 their reply resisting the appeal. They have averred that no ground
 exists for interference with the order impugned here and accordingly
 prayed for dismissal of the appeal. 6. This matter was listed before this Commission for final hearing
 on 23.09.2020 when the counsel for both sides appeared and
 advanced their arguments, the appellant for setting aside the order
 since passed without appreciating the evidence and the respondents
 for dismissal of the appeal since the deficiency on the part of the bank
 writ large on the face. We have perused the records of the case and
 given a serious consideration to the subject matter. (FA-549/2013) M/S ICICI BANK LIMITED VERSUS MR. AMIT KUMAR GHOSH PAGE 3 OF 5 7. It is an undisputed fact that the money was withdrawn through
 electronic mode. On inquiry conducted by the appellant it was noted
 as under:- 8. We may now examine the legal position on the subject. The
 State Commission of Chandigarh in the matter of State Bank of
 Patiala versus Ritu Lakhanpal as reported in IV [2014] CPJ 8A
 (CHD)(CN) is pleased to hold as under:- 9. The State Commission, Jharkhand in the matter of State Bank
 of India versus Srinath Prasad Singh as reported in II [2014] CPJ 4B
 (Jhar) (CN) has held that no withdrawal is possible through ATM
 machine unless secret code, which is in the exclusive possession of
 card holder, is used, similar view was taken by the State Commission
 Chandigarh in the matter of Rajnikant Upadhyay versus ICICI Bank
 Ltd. and anr. as reported in II [2012] CPJ 211 (Chd). 10. The Hon'ble NCDRC in the matter of State Bank of India versus
 K.K. Bhalla as reported in II [2011] CPJ 106 (NC) is pleased to hold
 that it is not possible to withdraw money from ATM without using
 ATM Card and PIN. 11. The Hon'ble NCDRC in yet another matter, in the matter of
 Raghbehdra Kumar Sen and anr. versus Punjab National Bank as
 reported in I [2015] CPJ 254 (NC) is pleased to observe that no
 withdrawal from ATM can be made unless the ATM Card/Debit Card
 issued to account holder is inserted in ATM machine followed by use
 of ATM pin provided to customer. Even if amount was withdrawn by
 third person he would have done it using ATM Card provided to him
 by complainant and ATM pin disclosed by him. 12. Having regard to the discussion done and the legal position
 explained, it is more than obvious that the money can be withdrawn
 from the ATM only if the person withdrawing it has the ATM Card and
 the pin which is otherwise in exclusive possession of the card holder

(FA-549/2013) M/S ICICI BANK LIMITED VERSUS MR. AMIT KUMAR GHOSH PAGE 4 OF 5
 and thus the money withdrawn from the ATM by a person other than
 the card holder is not coupled with any fault of the Bank. In these
 circumstances the orders passed by the District Forum holding the
 bank deficient in rendering service cannot sustain and it is
 accordingly set aside. 13. Ordered accordingly, leaving the parties to bear the cost. 14. A copy of this order be forwarded to the parties to the case free
 of cost as is statutorily required. A copy of this order be forwarded to
 the District Forum for information. 15. File be consigned to records. (Dr. JUSTICE SANGITA DHINGRA SEHGAL)
 PRESIDENT

 (ANIL SRIVASTAVA)
 MEMBER
 PRONOUNCED ON
 07.10.2020

 sl

(FA-549/2013) M/S ICICI BANK LIMITED VERSUS MR. AMIT KUMAR GHOSH PAGE 5 OF 5