1. Briefly stated the case of prosecution as unfolded by the report u/s 173 Cr. PC is as under: 2. On the basis of a secret information received in the office of DRI
New Delhi that one person carrying Fake Indian Currency Notes
(hereinafter referred to as "FICN") will be arriving at New Delhi Railway
Station via Brahmaputra Mail and will be delivering it at Bhajanpura Chowk
to one of his accomplice a raiding party was formed comprising of Ramesh
Kumar, Rohtash Pandey, Angad Meena, Devender Singh and Rajesh
Ohlan, all intelligence officers of DRI. Two public independent witnesses
namely Rajbir Singh and Sanjay Kumar were also joined as members of
the raiding party. 3. All the members of the raiding party reached Bhajanpura red
light crossing on 05.07.2010 at about 5.15 AM and positioned themselves
around that area. At about 8.30 AM a person wearing a white kurta pyjama
came at Bhajanpura red light riding on a red colour motorcycle. He parked
his motorcycle at some distance from a Mazar and went upto the Peer
Baba Mazar Sharif and stood there. After about 15 minutes i.e. at around
8.45 AM another person wearing jeans came in an auto rickshaw carrying
a green colour polythene packet in his hand. After getting down he walked
upto the person already standing over there and gave the packet to him. Thereafter both started walking towards the motorcycle. The person
wearing the white kurta pyjama sat on the driver seat while the other
person sat as a pillion rider behind him. As soon as the motorcycle started,
the DRI officers intercepted them and after introducing them asked the two
persons as to whether they were carrying FICN to which they replied in
negative. Sh Rohtash Pandey intelligence officer thereafter served a notice u/s 102 of the Customs Act 1962 to both of them stating that their search is
to be conducted and if they desire they could be taken before a Magistrate
or a Gazetted Officer. However both of them did not express any such
desire and offered their search to the DRI officers themselves. After getting
their desire recorded on the notice itself in the hand of public independent
witness Sanjay, both the accused persons were taken to the DRI Office,
Lodhi Colony, CGO Complex as the place of apprehension was not
considered safe for conducting the search and other proceedings. 4. After reaching the office the green coloured polythene bag
which was in the hand of Abdul Kalam was checked and it was found to be
containing 200 currency notes of Rs. 1000/- denomination and 195
currency notes of Rs. 500/- denomination. The details of the currency
notes so recovered were noted down. One officer from SBI Lodhi Colony
Branch was called to verify the genuineness of the recovered notes as
they appeared to be FICN. Accordingly one Omprakash an officer of SBI
Lodhi Colony branch after examining the currency notes so recovered
stated them to be fake. A panchnama was accordingly prepared in this
regard on which his observation was recorded. 5. The fake currency notes amounting to Rs. 2.95 lacs were taken
into possession after sealing them in a pulanda with the seal of DRI. The State v. Abdul Kalam @ Mullaji & Anr. Page 3 of 19 motorcycle recovered from Abdul Kalam was also seized. Personal search
of both the accused persons was conducted and from Naushad Mian one
train ticket was recovered and from Abdul Kalam a pocket diary besides
registration certificate of the motorcycle in question and his driving license
were recovered. Thereafter, Sh. Ramesh Kumar, Sr. Intelligence officer
recorded statement of Abdul Kalam u/s 108 of the Customs Act. The
statement was recorded in Hindi by one Sanjay Kumar, Tax Assistant of
DRI on the dictation of Abdul Kalam. Sh. Laxman Singh Rauthan,
Intelligence Officer was appointed as IO of the case and he arrested
accused Abdul Kalam. Sh. Ramesh Kumar, Sr. Intelligence officer handed
over all the documents including statements u/s 108 customs act to
Laxman Singh Rauthan for further investigation. 6. As regards accused Naushad Mian his statement u/s 108 customs act was recorded by S. K. Nath, Senior Intelligence Officer, DRI
and he too was arrested in the present case. 7. Subsequently IO Laxman Singh Rauthan also took the
recovered notes to Govt. Press Nasik for getting their authenticity
examined. Thereafter a complaint was made with the CBI and
consequently the present case was registered against accused Abdul
Kalam, Naushad Mian and one Anarul Mian who was stated to be the main
person involved in the trafficking of FICN. Insp. Naresh Indora thus took
over the further investigation in CBI. He made efforts to trace out other
persons involved in the trafficking of FICN namely Amirul Islam and Anarul
Mian and also got their bank accounts verified from West Bengal. He also
recorded statements of officers of DRI who were members of the raiding
party. 8. Upon completion of necessary further investigation challan was
prepared and was filed in the Court for trial. 9. After due compliance of Section 207 Cr. PC charge for the
offence u/s 120 B IPC and U/s 489 B, 489 C r/w S. 120 B IPC was framed
against both the accused persons to which they pleaded not guilty and
claimed trial. The two accused persons however also made the following
statements while pleading not guilty to the charges framed against them: 10. Prosecution thereafter in order to prove its case examined 27
witnesses. Accused persons were thereafter examined u/s 313 Cr.PC.
While accused Abdul Kalam thereafter examined one Smt. Bano, his
mother-in-law as DW-1 in his defence but accused Mohd. Naushad Mian
did not lead any evidence in his defence. 11. PW 1 Man Singh Yadav was the Sr. Intelligence Officer DRI
who alongwith other officers of DRI had gone to carry out the house search
of Zahiruddin at Old Subzi Mandi, Delhi but stated that nothing
incriminating could be found over there. He however stated that on the
next date i.e. 08.07.10 Zahiruddin came to their office in response to
summons served upon him and his statement was recorded u/s 108 Customs Act. 12. PW-2 Zahiruddin was the owner of Motorcycle No. DL-6SAE-
6542, which was recovered from the possession of accused Abdul Kalam.
He stated that accused Abdul Kalam had borrowed his motorcycle from
him for few days. 13. PW-3, Rohtash Pandey, PW-7, Angad Meena, PW-8,
Devender Singh, PW-11 Ramesh Kumar and PW-16 Rajesh Ohlan were
the DRI officers who were members of the raiding party. In their deposition
they deposed almost on identical lines reiterating the prosecution story. 14. PW-4 Rajbir Singh and PW-6 Sanjay Kumar were the two
public independent witnesses who were also member of the raiding party
and they too corroborated the deposition of DRI officers in material
particulars. 15. PW 5 Omprakash was an officer of State Bank of India, CGO
Complex branch. On 05.07.10 he was called in the DRI office to gave a
prima facie view as to whether the recovery of currency notes were fake or
not and upon examination he opined that they appeared to be fake. 16. PW 9 Sh. S.K. Nath was Senior Intelligence Officer, DRI and State v. Abdul Kalam @ Mullaji & Anr. Page 6 of 19 was present at the time of interrogation of the two accused persons as
carried out after their apprehension at DRI Office. In his presence accused
Naushad Mian had made a statement u/s 108 of Customs Act. Later, on
the directions of Dy. Director, P.S. Gulati he had also led a team of DRI
officers to carry out search of the house of accused Abdul Kalam but
nothing incriminating material was recovered over from there. 17. PW 10 Mahesh Kumar Yadav was yet another Intelligence
Officer, DRI who had carried out the search of the house of Zahiruddin, the
motorcycle owner, on the directions of his senior officers but stated that
nothing relevant was found over there. 18. PW 12 Sanjay Kumar, Senior Tax Assistant, DRI had written
the statement u/s 108 Customs Act of accused Abdul Kalam on his
dictation in Hindi and proved the same besides his signatures under it. 19. PW 13, Alkesh Rao, was another Intelligence Officer, DRI who
had accompanied PW 9 S.K. Nath in the house search of accused Abdul
Kalam and corroborated his deposition in material particulars. 20. PW 14 P.S. Gulati, Dy. Director, DRI, supervised the
investigation of the presence case and on 06.07.10 issued two search
warrants for the search of house of Abdul Kalam and Zahiruddin. Later on
he had also written a letter Ex. PW 14/A to his DRI office, Silliguri to carry
out the investigation at the premises of Naushad Mian, the other accused
in the present case and also with respect to Anarul Mian and Amirul Islam
whose names also cropped up during the interrogation of the present two
accused persons. He had also written a letter to Chief Manager, Nasik
Bank, Nasik for seeking his expert opinion qua the currency notes State v. Abdul Kalam @ Mullaji & Anr. Page 7 of 19 recovered. 21. PW 15 Laxman Singh Rauthan was appointed as Investigating
Officer of the case after the accused persons were apprehended by the
officers of the DRI. He had formally arrested accused Abdul Kalam in the
present case and got him medically examined at RML Hospital. He also
took the recovered currency notes to Nasik press for getting them verified
and S. K. Das, Assistant Work Manager, Currency Note Press, Nasik Road
confirmed that the recovered notes were fake currency notes. Later, on
20.07.10 vide letter Ex. PW 15/A he sent a request to CBI to register an
FIR in the present case regarding seizure of FICN to the tune of Rs. 2.95
lacs from them. On 03.09.10 he also filed a complaint u/s 135 Customs Act
against accused persons before the Court of Ld. ACMM, New Delhi. 22. PW 17, Gautam Chakraborty was branch Manager, State Bank
of India, Kalighat, Calcutta. On the request of PW 9 S.K. Nath, he provided
the account opening form of Amirul Islam as well as that of Mohd. Sikander
Hussain which were being operated in his bank. He also provided the DRI
officers the copies of the various ID proofs which were submitted by the
said two persons at the time of opening of their accounts. 23. PW 18, A.K. Roy was the Superintendent, Customs Preventive
Unit, West Bengal. He too in response to a letter written by PW 9 S.K. Nath
submitted a report regarding the search carried out by the DRI Officers at
the house of Naushad Mian and at the house of Anarul Mian and Amirul
Islam. 24. PW-19 Lun Karan Mehta was the director of M/s Pooja
Finlease Ltd. who had financed the said motorcycle to Zahiruddin and State v. Abdul Kalam @ Mullaji & Anr. Page 8 of 19 proved the necessary record in this regard. 25. PW 20, A.K. Sachdeva, Nodal Officer Reliance Communication
had in response to the request of PW 9 S. K. Nath submitted call detail
record of mobile No. 9310337908 being in the name of one Sanjay R/o
Jagjeet Nagar, New Delhi. 26. PW 21 Santosh Kumar Chakraborty was the branch Manager,
State Bank of India, Borokamat Branch, Distt. Malda, Calcutta. He had
provided the account opening form of one Badiruddin Sheikh alongwith his
ID proof as available in their records besides the statement of account as
was being maintained in his bank. 27. PW 22 Dibyendu Mukherjee was an official working in Banga
Sanskriti Bhawan, Government of West Bengal, New Delhi. On a request
received from the office of DRI he had translated certain documents which
were written in Bengali and proved the translation as marked Y1, Y2 and
Y3. 28. PW 23 Dibyendu Adhikary was the branch Manager, State
Bank of India, Kalia Chak Branch, Malda West Bengal. He proved the
account opening form of Mohd. Merajul Islam in whose name account was
being maintained in his bank. 29. PW 24, K.K. Sharma was MLO Transport Authority, Loni
Road. He produced the record pertaining to the driving license of accused
Abdul Kalam. 30. PW-25 Samuel was an official of Transport Department, Sarai
Kale Khan who produced the registration documents of the said State v. Abdul Kalam @ Mullaji & Anr. Page 9 of 19 motorcycle which was registered in the name of Zahiruddin. 31. PW 26, S.K. Dass was the Assistant Works Manager, Nasik
Press, Currency notes Press, Nasik. He proved his report Ex. PW 26/A
(colly.) vide which he had opined the notes sent to their Press for
examination by the officers of DRI as being FICN. 32. PW 27, Inspector Naresh Indora had taken over the
investigation of the present case in CBI after the present case was
registered over there on a complaint made by PW 15, Laxman Singh
Rauthan. After collecting all the documents and memos prepared by the
DRI. He had also recorded their statements and upon completion of
necessary further investigation he had filed challan in the Court for trial. He
thus proved the proceedings thus carried out by him. 33. Both accused persons thereafter in their statements U/s 313 Cr.PC stated the case of the prosecution to be false. They also denied
having made any statement U/s 8 of the Customs Act and thus claimed
themselves to be innocent. 34. DW 1, Bano was the mother-in-law of accused Abdul Kalam. In
her deposition she stated that on 05.07.10, 4-5 persons had come to their
house and inquired about accused Abdul Kalam and took him away on the
assurance that after inquiry he will return back. She further stated that at
about 9 PM her husband came and she told him all such facts. She further
stated that on the next morning 4-5 persons again came to her house and
told them that accused Abdul Kalam has been arrested in connection with
some counterfeit currency case. The said persons also carried out search
of their house but nothing incriminating could be found. 35. I have heard the arguments as addressed by Ld. APP and Ld.
Counsel for the accused persons. 36. It was vehemently argued by Ld. Defence Counsel that CBI
has miserably failed to prove its case. It was submitted that CBI in fact did
not carry out any investigation of their own and rather simply collected
whatever proceedings that were carried out and recorded by the DRI
officers. It was submitted that even qua the proceedings carried out by the
DRI officers a number of material contradictions have cropped up in the
deposition of the prosecution witnesses. It was further submitted that the
two public witnesses of the prosecution who were members of the raiding
party namely PW-4 Rajbir Singh and PW-6 Sanjay have contradicted each
other on a number of points. Even the manner in which the initial secret
information was allegedly received by the DRI officers was also stated to
be doubtful. It was further submitted that the statements of the two
accused persons recorded u/s 108 of the Customs Act have been recorded
as if same statements u/s 161 Cr.P.C. were being recorded. It was pointed
out that if the accused persons had expressed their apprehension that the
said place of arrest was not safe for carrying out the proceedings as stated
by the prosecution witnesses then this fact ought to have been mentioned
in the reply to notice u/s 102 Customs Act served upon them. It was also
submitted that even though the place of apprehension was a busy place
but no public witness from that area was joined or even efforts made in that
regard. It was also pointed out that Prem Singh who admittedly was a
writer of the statement u/s 108 Customs Act of accused Mohd. Naushad
Mian was not even cited in the list of witnesses. Similarly it was pointed out
that S. K. Nath the Sr. Intelligence Officer in whose presence the
statements were allegedly recorded as per the prosecution case did not State v. Abdul Kalam @ Mullaji & Anr. Page 11 of 19 state so in his deposition. It was also submitted that nothing is evident from
the record as to how accused Mohd. Naushad Mian who as per his
statement u/s 108 Customs Act started from Bihar on 04.7.2010 and came
to be apprehended on the morning of 05.7.2010 in Delhi at 8:30 AM and
how he communicated with his co-accused or identified him at the spot. It
was also submitted that accused Naushad Mian in fact simply carried a
packet given to him by his relative Anarul Mian in Bihar for delivery to one
Lokesh who came at the railway station to collect the packet. It was
however submitted that accused Naushad Mian was himself unaware of
the contents of the said packet and Lokesh in fact slipped away after
collecting the parcel. It was thus stated that accused Naushad Mian has
been falsely implicated in this case and recovery of FICN has been planted
upon him. As regards accused Abdul Kalam it was stated that he was lifted
from his house in regard to some inquiry but was later on falsely implicated
in this case. 37. On the other hand Ld. PP for the CBI submitted that the
contradictions as pointed out by Ld. defence counsel are minor in nature
and does not in any manner affect the core of the prosecution case viz. the
carrying and delivery of FICN. It was also submitted that the secret
informer in such kind of cases are usually not examined so as to keep their
safety in mind. It was further submitted that accused Naushad Mian has in
fact not disputed that he was carrying a packet while coming from Bihar in
train. He simply stated that he was unaware about the contents of the
packet. It was also submitted that there was no reason to the DRI officers
to let go any Lokesh with FICN and to falsely implicate the present two
accused persons. The prosecution was thus stated to have been
successful in proving its case against both the accused persons beyond State v. Abdul Kalam @ Mullaji & Anr. Page 12 of 19 shadows of all reasonable doubts. It was also pointed out that possession
of FICN has been admitted by the accused persons in their plea in
response to the charges framed against them. Both the accused persons
were thus prayed to be convicted. 38. I have carefully perused the record. 39. At the outset, I may state that not only from the statements
made by the two accused persons in response to the charges framed
against them as have been reproduced herein above but even otherwise it
clearly emerges out from the cross examination of the various prosecution
witnesses that accused Mohd. Naushad was indeed carrying a packet
which upon checking was found to be containing FICN though he has
certainly taken a plea that he was not aware about the contents of the said
packet and he was merely asked by one Anarul Mian to deliver it to one
Lokesh after contacting him on his mobile phone. Similarly Adbul Kalam as
per his own statement made in response to charges framed against him
stated that though he collected the delivery of the said packet but he was
not aware that it was containing FICN. He also stated that he had taken
delivery of the said article at the instance of one Lokesh. 40. The question which now arises for consideration is as to what
is the effect of the aforesaid nature of plea of defence taken by the two
accused persons at the initial stage of trial itself in response of the charges
framed against them vis-a-vis the changing nature of plea of defence as
put in the cross examination of some of the prosecution witnesses. It was
suggested in the cross-examination of the prosecution witnesses that no
such recovery was effected from the accused persons or that the actual
person Lokesh was allowed to slip away or that accused Abdul Kalam was State v. Abdul Kalam @ Mullaji & Anr. Page 13 of 19 picked up from his house and falsely implicated in this case. 41. Certainly certain contradictions have been pointed out by Ld.
Defence Counsel in the deposition of various members of raiding party as
to when they reached Bhajanpura Chowk or in what manner the
proceedings after apprehension of the two accused persons were carried
out or as to in whose presence the statements u/s 108 Customs Act of the
two accused persons were recorded or as to why no endorsement was
made on the notice u/s 102 Customs Act that the place of apprehension
was not a safe place for carrying out further proceedings. However in my
considered opinion these contradictions does not in any manner affect the
substance of the deposition of said prosecution witnesses. The
contradictions rather goes to suggest that the witnesses have not churned
out a parrot like version or were tutored and have instead deposed as per
their memory. It is certainly correct that if the place of apprehension was
not found to be safe for carrying out further proceedings after
apprehension of accused persons than an endorsement to that effect
ought to have been made on the notice u/s 102 Customs Act served upon
the accused persons but the said omission does not strike at the root of
the prosecution case in any manner. 42. The contention of Ld. Defence Counsel that the two public
independent witnesses namely Rajbir Singh and Sanjay Kumar were not
trust worthy as the presence of the two witnesses at around 5 AM near the
office of DRI and their subsequent joining the proceedings with the DRI
officers appears to be highly improbable, also clearly appears to be without
any basis. A bare perusal of the deposition of the two public witnesses
clearly shows that they have given cogent, convincing and reliable State v. Abdul Kalam @ Mullaji & Anr. Page 14 of 19 deposition regarding their presence and subsequent participation in the
proceedings. Nothing could come out in their cross-examination which
could suggest that they were either stock witnesses of DRI or were not
present at the time of the proceedings or were telling lie on any aspect. 43. Once again the aforesaid contradictions ceases to have any
material effect especially when the possession of the packet containing
FICN has not been disputed by the two accused persons though
knowledge only that the packet was containing FICN has been denied. In
the cross examination of PW 11 Ramesh Kumar, Sr. Intelligence Officer,
DRI, a suggestion was specifically put to him that upon being asked about
the FICN accused Mohd. Naushad Mian had stated that he has no
knowledge about the contents of the packet and that the bundle which he
was having was sent for one Lokesh who had run away. It was also
suggested to him that accused Mohd. Naushand Mian was arrested from
Old Delhi Railway Station and he pointed out towards Lokesh who
however slipped away. On the other hand in the cross examination of PW
3 Rohtash Pandey, another member of the raiding party, it was suggested
that fake currency notes were infact recovered and seized from one
Lokesh. In the cross examination of PW 8 Devender Singh yet another
member of the raiding party it was however suggested that as soon as
accused Naushad Mian was arrested Lokesh slipped away and the DRI
officers did not care to apprehend him. In the cross examination of PW 7
Angad Meena, Intelligence Officer DRI who too was a member of the
raiding party it was suggested that accused Naushad Mian did disclose
about Lokesh at the railway station but he was not aware of any further
particulars of his except that he was a resident of Bhajanpura. In the cross-
examination of PW 16 Rajesh Ohlan, yet another member of the raiding State v. Abdul Kalam @ Mullaji & Anr. Page 15 of 19 party, it was however suggested that nothing was recovered from the
accused persons. 44. However, it is beyond comprehension as to why the DRI
officers would have allowed Lokesh to slip away if he was the person who
was to take delivery of the said packet from Naushad Mian and why they
would have gone ahead to falsely implicate accused Abdul Kalam in the
present case. Once again if in the light of the aforesaid suggestions the
plea of guilt of accused Abdul Kalam @ Mullaji at the stage of charge itself
is seen then it is found that at the initial stage of the trial itself he stated
that one Lokesh had asked him to take delivery of some article and when
he took delivery he was not aware that it contained fake currency notes. It
is thus clear that though one Lokesh might also was involved in the said
racket of FICN but it cannot be presumed that the present two accused
persons were not part of the said conspiracy of trafficking in FICN. It is also
beyond comprehension as to if accused Naushad Mian was not having any
further particulars of Lokesh then how he would have gone ahead to
contact him to deliver the said packet carried by him. He in fact stated that
he was to contact Lokesh on mobile. Accused Mohd. Naushad Mian
however stated that he did not remember the mobile number through
which he was to contract said Lokesh. Accused Abdul Kalam also did not
disclose any particulars of said Lokesh on whose behalf he had allegedly
gone to collect the packet from accused Mohd. Naushad Mian. This fact
further goes to suggest that the accused persons were not coming forth
with clear facts and were rather withholding crucial evidence which was
exclusively to their knowledge only. Had the said number or particulars
been disclosed then the DRI officers would have certainly gone ahead to
apprehend the said other person Lokesh also. 45. The aforesaid nature of suggestions put differently to various
prosecution witnesses rather goes to suggest that a feeble attempt was
being made to wriggle out of the earlier plea of defence made by the
accused persons at the stage of charge itself. Infact, even if for the sake of
arguments the story being now put forth by Ld. Defence Counsel regarding
apprehension of accused Mohd. Naushad Mian from Old Delhi Railway
Station is presumed to be true then also the very basis of the prosecution
story regarding receiving a secret information about some person arriving
with FICN in his possession or a raiding party subsequently having been
formed stands proved beyond shadows of all reasonable doubts. 46. Infact the deposition of PW 5 Omprakash, an Officer of State
Bank of India, CGO Complex provide further support to the case of the
prosecution. He stated that on 05.07.10 he was called to the DRI office to
verify as to whether the currency notes were recovered from FICN or not.
He thereafter gave his prima facie opinion that the said notes appears to
be FICN. He had not only signed the inventory of the notes so recovered
but a note of his said opinion was also made over there. His deposition has
completely remained unimpeached. Thus from the deposition of this
witness also it stands crystal clear that on 05.07.10 the proceedings as
deposed to by the various DRI officers indeed took place and there were
currency notes which he opined to be FICN. 47. However, the onus to prove that accused persons were not
having any knowledge that the packet being carried by them contained
FICN was to be discharged by them and I may state that they have
miserably failed in discharging the said onus. No presumption can be
drawn in this regard in favour of the accused persons that they were not State v. Abdul Kalam @ Mullaji & Anr. Page 17 of 19 having any knowledge of the contents of the packet or as suggested to
some of the prosecution witnesses that the accused Naushad Mian was
not having knowledge that the currency notes inside the packet were fake
currency notes. Similarly the prosecution could not be expected to lead
any other nature of evidence to prove that the packet containing FICN was
being carried by the accused persons while having full knowledge of the
contents of the packet. 48. Ordinarily, one would have ventured into a further analysis of
the prosecution case even qua the knowledge aspect had the accused
persons been found in possession of one or two currency notes which later
on turned out to be fake but when such huge amount of currency notes
amounting to Rs. Rs. 2,95,000/- were recovered from the accused persons
then it was the duty of the accused persons to explain as to in what
circumstances they preferred to carry such a huge amount of cash with
them. As already pointed out that though in the cross examination of some
prosecution witnesses who were members of the raiding party it was
suggested that accused Naushad Mian was not aware of the contents of
the packet being carried by him but in his plea of defence at the stage of
charge it was stated that he was not aware that the notes being carried by
him were fake or counterfeit currency notes. Thus from the changing
stands taken by the accused persons it is clear that the accused persons
knew fully well that the packet being carried by them contained notes and
that they were fake and they intended to put them into use as genuine. 49. No doubt the DRI officers or the investigating agency i.e. CBI
subsequently should have taken further effective steps to ascertain as to
who all were part of the said conspiracy so that such kind of persons who State v. Abdul Kalam @ Mullaji & Anr. Page 18 of 19 tends to strike at the very roots of the economy of the country could have
been brought to book. However their failure in not being successful in
apprehending any other conspirators does not in any manner take away
the ground beneath the case of the prosecution qua the present two
accused persons. 50. Apart from the fact that in the cross-examination of none of the
prosecution witnesses anything could be elicited which may favour the
accused or may lead me to disbelieve their deposition, I also find the
deposition of various DRI officers to be cogent, convincing and reliable. 51. In view of my aforesaid discussion, I am of the considered
opinion that the prosecution has been successful in proving its case
beyond shadows of all reasonable doubts that accused Naushad Mian and
Abdul Kalam were part of a criminal conspiracy whereby they were
trafficking in FICN and were accordingly found in possession of FICN worth
Rs. 2,95,000/- in the denomination of 200 notes of Rs. 1000/- and 195
notes of Rs. 500/- and that their sole intention could be nothing else but to
put the said currency notes into circulation in the market as genuine. I
accordingly hereby hold both accused Naushand Mian and Abdul Kalam
guilty of the offence u/s 120 B IPC and for the offence U/s 489B and 489C IPC r/w 120 B IPC and convict them thereunder.