(Per Smt. M. Shreesha, Member) 

 

  

 

*** 1) Aggrieved
by the order in CC 81/2011 on the file of Dist. Forum-I, Visakapatnam, the
complainant preferred this appeal. 2) The brief facts as set out in the
complaint are that the complainant opened an NRI on line account bearing No. 12700100009015 to enable his family members to draw the amounts through
cheques from the complainant account at Visakapatnam. He was
assured by the opposite party bank that the on-line banking system introduced with
modern technology which requires pass word for login purpose and therefore is a
safe proposition. The complainant furnished his wifes mobile number at Visakapatnam for receiving SMS from the
opposite party bank and gave necessary instructions to the bank for allowing third party transactions
in two spells up to a maximum of Rs. 1 lakh
in a day. The complainant retained the login and
transaction password with him for entering into on line account details and to create
third party transactions. The opposite
party promised to provide service to the
complainant stating that the account
details cannot be made open to the third
party by any other method except the facility of knowing
the details of the self-account and that they are duty bound to maintain secrecy of the account details. While
so, on 22.11.2010 the complainants wife
received a message in her cell phone
sent by Op conveying the user
ID and the last transaction details
of the complainant and the complainants wife believing that the message was sent by Op bank
contacted the complainant over phone
and on confirmation of the details which are found correct, she responded to the
Op bank over phone and messages at the instructions of the complainant. On 23.11.2010
the complainant verified his on line account and found that third party transaction
was created in his account and an amount of Rs. 1 lakh was withdrawn in two different spells. When
the complainant contacted Op and enquired about unauthorized withdrawal of Rs.
1 lakh as he did not login the password there was no satisfactory reply from
Ops. The complainant addressed a letter on
24.11.2010 to Op and also filed a complaint with Cyber Crimes Police
Station and an FIR No. 685/2010 was registered. The
opposite party sent a reply on 22.12.2010 attributing complainants negligence
and that there is no deficiency of service on their behalf. Hence this complaint seeking directions to Op
to refund Rs. 1 lakh with interest, compensation and costs. 3) The opposite party bank filed counter denying all the allegations made by the complainant in his
complaint and submit that the internet banking facility is being provided by
the bankers and the rules and regulations are clearly mentioned in their
website. The complainant opened an
account on 6.11.2009 and he also opted for
internet banking and submitted an application form wherein it is mentioned that the customer is aware of the
Bank of Baroda e-banking is
governed by the terms and conditions as displayed on the website www.bobibanking.com and only after satisfying himself, the
complainant started availing the same. When the complainant informed about the situation
it was clearly explained to him that the password/pin number will never be
asked by the bank at any point of time and a detailed reply dt. 22.12.2010 was
also given to him. The bank has also posted the following in
their website: The complainants wife informed her husband
when another call was received
stating in continuation of our
online banking verification exercise, our
customer service personnel will
call you to confirm your mobile tracker ID and a
phone call was received on 22.11.2010
and again on 22.11.2010. The complainants wife received a phone call from a person
claiming to be bank official asked about the tracker ID
number for security purpose and
the same was informed to her husband on 23.11.2010 on which date an amount of Rs. 1 lakh was
taken in two spells. On 24.11.2010 when they informed the bank
about the unauthorized transactions she was told that the messages were not
sent by them. Thereafter the complainant filed FIR Ex A4 and
Ex. A5 evidences that an amount of Rs. 1 lakh was withdrawn in two spells. 8) It is the appellant/complainants case that the bank is not
supposed to disclose the details of the
customers account and that
unless the opposite party knows the
user-ID and password apart from the complainant there
is no possibility for anyone else having the
user-id and last transaction details and
that the appellants wife being a women is not conversant with on-line transactions and when such a fraud was
committed the opposite party bank is liable to pay an
amount of Rs. 1 lakh as it is only because of the negligence on the part of the bank officials. 9) We observe from the record that there is no documentary evidence
filed on behalf of the appellant/complainant to establish that the officials of
the bank have committed any fraud or that they have disclosed the customers details
to any third party. While it is informed
that an amount of Rs. 1 lakh is withdrawn from the complainants account, the
burden of proof lies on the complainant to establish that any fraud has been
committed by the opposite party. There is no evidence to establish that the
officials of the bank have disclosed the customers ID along with password to
necessitate the third party transactions. We observe from the record that
the investigation is still pending and
no final report has been filed. We also
observe from the record that rules and regulations of the internet banking facility
under clauses-8(v) it is clearly mentioned 

 

 The bank does not assume any responsibility
in this behalf including against loss incurred by the user as a result of
misuse/unauthorized use of user ID/password. The opposite party bank also posted
the warning on the website which reads
as follows: