1. The present application is filed under Section 439 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, for regular bail in connection
with FIR being C.R.NO.11191011220118 of 2022 registered
with DCB Police Station, Ahmedabad for offence under Sections 123 and 120(B) of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (herein
after referred to as the " IPC ") and Section 65 , 66(c) , 66(F) and 66a of the Information Technology Act (herein after referred to as
the "Act"). 2. Learned advocate appearing on behalf of the applicant
submits that in present case, the investigation is over and
charge-sheet is filed. The present FIR has been lodged against
the present applicant for the offences punishable under Sections
123 and 120(B) of the IPC and Section 65 , 66(c) , 66(F) and 66a of the Act. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/11942/2023 ORDER DATED: 27/10/2023

 undefined

2.1 Learned advocate for the applicant has submitted that as
per the case of prosecution, the applicant is stated to be in touch
with the citizens of Pakistan and had provided Indian mobile
sim-cards duly activated to his Pakistani counter part. He has
submitted that upon prima-facie reading of the FIR in question,
the offence punishable under Section 123 of the IPC is not duly
made out against the present applicant, as the conduct alleged
against the present applicant in the FIR as well as in the charge-
sheet, would not amount to waging war, as there was no
intention on the part of the present applicant to overwhelm and
defeat the troops of the king. 2.2 Learned advocate for the applicant has submitted that, as
alleged in the FIR against the present applicant, certain websites
belonging to the retired or due to retire defense personnel were
faked and duplicate websites with the similar names were
created. The websites, which are allegedly faked as per the case
of prosecution, were not notified by the Government of India
under Section 70 of the Information Technology Act, as protected
systems. In that view of the matter, the offence punishable under Section 66(F) of the Act would also not be attracted against the
present applicant. The other offences alleged against the present
applicant are punishable with imprisonment of less than 7
years. He, therefore, submitted to allow the present application
and enlarge the present applicant on bail subject to suitable
conditions. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/11942/2023 ORDER DATED: 27/10/2023

 undefined 3. Learned advocate for the applicant sought to rely upon the
judgment of Apex Court in case of Mohammad Irfan Vs. State
of Karnataka reported in 2022 LiveLaw (SC) 590. 4. Learned APP appearing on behalf of the respondent-State
has opposed grant of regular bail by submitting that the
government has received an information from a defense
personnel of the rank Leftnent Colonel that the defense
personnel of Army as well as other armed forces, who have
retired or are due to retire in near future, were receiving the
messages and calls on Whats'up application asking them to
upload their information on the website for monetary gallantry
awards. Upon this information, as inquiry / investigation was
carried out and it was found that the websites in which the
defense personnel were asked to submit their details for
gallantry awards, were spurious. Upon an inquiry, it was found
that those phone calls and messages were made on Whats' up,
which was activated on Indian mobile numbers and operated
from Pakistan. 4.1. Learned APP has submitted that the investigation also
revealed that it was the present applicant, who had facilitated
his Pakistani counter parts by providing them Indian mobile
numbers. 4.2. Learned APP has submitted that three websites viz.
www.rodra.gov.in, which was operated for the welfare retired
defense personnel was faked and other two websites of the
similar nature were also faked by the Pakistani counter parts of
the present applicant and the servers of the said websites were Page 3 of 7 Downloaded on : Fri Oct 27 20:50:58 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/11942/2023 ORDER DATED: 27/10/2023

 undefined

found to be outside the territory of India. The applicant had also
suppressed the fact as regard to whom he was providing the sim-
cards and who was going to use the sim-cards in question. He,
therefore, submitted that there is a prima-facie case against the
present applicant for commission of serious offence, and
therefore, the present application should be dismissed. 5. I have heard the learned advocates appearing on behalf of
the respective parties and perused the papers. In present case,
the investigation is over and charge-sheet has been filed. Upon
perusal of FIR, it appears that the intelligence in-put was
received by the Crime Branch of the Ahmedabad City to the
effect that a website viz. www.rodra.gov.in was faked and
another website with similar nature www.rodra.in was created
and the retired officers of the armed forces were receiving
messages and phone calls on Whats' up application asking them
to log in their credentials in the said websites. Upon an inquiry,
the said website was found to have been faked. It was further
noticed that two other websites viz. www.ksb.gov.in and
www.desw.gov.in were also faked and two other websites with
similar names viz. www.ksboard.in and www.desw.in were
created. The investigation further revealed that the servers of the
faked websites were operating from outside the territory of India.
Moreover, the telephone numbers, which were used for making
the telephone calls and messages to the defense personnel were
Indian. However the what's up application for the said numbers
was operated from Pakistan. Upon inquiry, it was found that the
present applicant had obtained several sim-cards from the
witnesses, on one pretext or other, these sim-cards were already Page 4 of 7 Downloaded on : Fri Oct 27 20:50:58 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/11942/2023 ORDER DATED: 27/10/2023

 undefined

activated before they were handed over to the present applicant.
The present applicant was in constant touch with an employee
in the consulate of Pakistan at New Delhi. The applicant had
provided the mobile numbers of the sim-cards which he had
procured from the witnesses, as stated herein above, and
thereafter, had inserted those sim-cards in his mobile phone
instrument, whereas his counter part in Pakistan would
download the Whats'up application and would log in the
number, which was given by the present applicant to him, upon
which the present applicant would receive a one time password
on the mobile phone, wherein sim-cards in question was
inserted. The said OTP would then be provided by the present
applicant to his Pakistani counter part and thus, Whats' up
application would get activated in Pakistan on the mobile
number provided by the present applicant. The said Whats' up
application would thereafter be used to make messages and
Whats' up calls to the retired defense personnel and asking them
to upload their credentials on the websites, which were faked
and spurious, as stated herein above. The intention behind this
appears to be of gathering the information about the defense
personnel and their whereabouts. The investigation also reveals
that the present applicant was in constant touch with an
employee of a consulate of Pakistan at New Delhi and had
referred several persons, who intended to visit Pakistan to him
for visa purposes and had also collected money from them for
the said purpose. 6. Learned advocate for the applicant contended that the web- NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/11942/2023 ORDER DATED: 27/10/2023

 undefined

sites in question were not notified by the Government of India as
protected system under Section 70 of the Information
Technology Act, and therefore, the offence punishable under Section 66(F) of the Act would not be attracted against the
present applicant. In this regard, if the provision of Section 66(F) of the Act is seen, 66F (1) (B) of the Act reads as under:- Thus, for attracting the offence under Clause(B), as stated
herein above, the pre-condition of reporting of the website as a
protected system is not necessary. 7. So far as the aspect of Section 123 of the IPC is concerned,
learned advocate for the applicant seeks to rely upon the
judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Mohammad Irfan (supra), wherein relying upon the judgment of the Patna High
Court, the Apex Court has observed as under:- 8. It is also required to be noted that the present applicant
had concealed the fact as regard providing the Indian simcards
to Pakistan and activating a What's up application on the said
mobile numbers and the purpose for the same. As stated herein
above, the intention behind this appears to be procuring secret
information about the defense forces. Thus, the present
applicant prima-facie appears to have acted against the interest
and security of India. Considering the same, the application
being devoid of any merit and the same is hereby dismissed. (M. R. MENGDEY,J)
GIRISH Page 7 of 7 Downloaded on : Fri Oct 27 20:50:58 IST 2023