DATE : 11th December, 2019. Judgment (Per Ranjit More, J.) : 1. The petitioner, in public interest, has approached this

 Court with following prayers : 2. The petitioner is seeking adjudication of following

issues : under Section 2(13) of the Act, between a person

 giving "advance" and a person giving "advance at

 interest", particularly in the impugned clauses "j" and

 "k" thereof, for the purpose of excluding the

 applicability of the regulatory, confiscatory and penal patilsr 2/16 crpil st. 41.19(FINAL).odt

 provisions of the Act, is manifestly arbitrary and

 renders the impugned clauses ultra vires on the test of Article 14 of the Constitution of India ? (b) Consequently, whether guidelines are

 required to be issued for initiating criminal

 prosecution, and taking other regulatory, confiscatory

 and penal action as provided in the Act even against

 such money lenders, who would advance without

 interest, sums exceeding rupees three lakhs on the

 basis of negotiable instruments as defined in the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 , other than a

 promissory note, or/and advances any sum exceeding

 rupees three thousand on the basis of a hundi,

 without obtaining the license as required under the

 Act? 3. The petitioner claims that the evil of money lending by

unregulated financial sources, individuals is haunting the

farmers, agriculturists, non-agriculturists in the State of

Maharashtra. He claims that having noticed and read about

large number of suicides by debt-ridden victims in the State of

Maharashtra, he is compelled to file the present PIL. patilsr 3/16 crpil st. 41.19(FINAL).odt 4. The petitioner contends that the word "loan" as

defined in Section 2(13) of the Maharashtra Money Lending

(Regulation) Act, 2014 (for short "the Act"), makes arbitrary and

unwarranted distinction between "advance" and "advance at

interest". In view of such restricted meaning given to the term

"loan" by restricting its application only to "advance at interest",

the said enactment fails to serve the purpose for which, the Act

was enacted. In the submission of the petitioner, in view of the

impugned clauses (j) and (k) of Section 2(13) of the Act, the

advance which is not at interest and are made on the basis of Negotiable Instrument Act (other than promissory note) or hundi

escape the regulatory prohibition contained in Section 4 i.e.

requirement of licenses. Moreover, the money lenders

advancing such sums also escape the requirements of obtaining

licenses and the consequential regulatory, penal and criminal

actions under the Act. The petitioner submitted that Section 39 of the Act provides for imprisonment of money lenders, whereas

imprisonment of borrower is provided under the Negotiable

Instrument Act, 1881 . It is also the contention of the petitioner

that many such money lenders are showing some transactions

of any other trading or business with a view to cover the actual patilsr 4/16 crpil st. 41.19(FINAL).odt

business of money lending. The persons who are indulging in

the business of money lending and escaping the net of the Act in

view of the impugned clauses i.e. clauses (j) (k) of Section 2(13) of the Act, not only saves themselves illegally from the

punishment provided under the Act but also availing the

remedies for enforcing such illegal debt, which is legally not

enforceable, if the provisions of the Act would apply to them.

Such enforcements of illegal debts through the proceedings

under the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 , the Insolvency and

Bankruptcy Code, Code of Criminal Procedure , 1908, the Specific

Relief Act, 1963 , the Contract Act, 1872 etc. would not be

available to the unlicensed money lenders, who are in the

business of advancing without interest, if two impugned clauses

viz. (j) and (k) of Section 2(13) of the Act are set-aside for being

manifestly arbitrary and unconstitutional. Such intention is not

contemplated in the object of the Act i.e. to regulate the

transactions of money lending thereby the harassment of

agriculturists and non-agriculturists at the hands of money

lenders is continued unabated in the State of Maharashtra. 5. The learned APP submitted that the instant PIL is

frivolous; there is no merit in the contention of the petitioner. patilsr 5/16 crpil st. 41.19(FINAL).odt

He prayed for the dismissal of the same. 6. The Act of 2014 was enacted to regulate and control

the transactions of money lending in the State of Maharashtra

on finding the then existing enactments to be inadequate and to

take appropriate stringent social and legal measures. 7. The "business of money-lending" is defined in Section

2(3) of the said Act, which reads as under: 8. Sections 4 and 39 of the Act make it mandatory for the

money lenders to have license for specified area and on

specified terms and conditions. Sections 4 and 39 read thus : 9. Section 25 of the Act has some relevance on the issue

at hand, therefore, the same is reproduced here : The statement shall be signed by the money- lender or his agent, and shall be in any recognized
 language. It shall be in such form and shall be
 supplied to the debtor on or before such date as
 may be prescribed: lender shall, on demand in writing being made by
 the debtor at anytime during the period when the
 loan or any part thereof has not been repaid, and
 on payment of the prescribed fee supply to the
 debtor, or if the debtor so requires to any person
 specified in that behalf in the demand, a
 statement, in any recognized language, signed by
 the money-lender or his agent, and containing the
 relevant particulars specified in sub-section (1)
 within fifteen days from the date of application by
 the debtor. (3) A money-lender shall, on demand in writing by
 the debtor, and tender of the prescribed sum of
 expenses, supply a copy of any document relating
 to a loan made by him or any security therefor to
 the debtor, or if the debtor so requires to any
 person specified in that behalf in the demand.

 (4) For the purpose of this section, "year" means
 the year for which the accounts of the money-
 lender are ordinarily maintained in his own
 books." 10. The rate of interest is fixed by the State Government

under Section 31 of the Act and charging or recovering the

interest at higher rate is punishable under Section 44 , which

reads as follows : .... 44. Penalty for charging rate of interest in contravention
 of section 31 Whoever charges or recovers interest in contravention of section
 31 , shall, on conviction, be punished with fine which may extend
 to twenty-five thousand rupees, if it is first offence and with fine
 up to fifty thousand rupees, for the second or subsequent
 offence. 11. It is not in dispute that though the Maharashtra Money

Lending (Regulation) Act, 2014 , in its introduction, lays patilsr 9/16 crpil st. 41.19(FINAL).odt

emphasis on the farmer-debtors and farmers' suicide as trigger

for the legislation, however, the protection under the Act is

available even to other debtors and not exclusively to the

farmers. Even the statutory Form No.1 under Rule 3 of the

Money Lending (Regulation) Rules, 2014, also covers the

agriculturists and non-agriculturists both. 12. Section 2(13) of the said Act reads as follows : 13. Sub-section (13) of Section 2 of the Act defines the

"Loan". Broadly, loan as per the Act is an "advance at interest".

However, certain exclusions are specified in the definition for

avoiding any doubts. In these exclusions mainly three key

words are used, viz., "loan", "deposit" or "advance". In the

instant PIL, the petitioner has sought to impugn clauses (j) and (k). According to him, the impugned clauses, if not struck down,

would lead to a situation where mere advance "which is not with patilsr 11/16 crpil st. 41.19(FINAL).odt

interest" would be excluded from the applicability of the penal

provisions of the Act. Unlike exclusion clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h), (I) and (m) which uses the word "loan, ie., advance

at interest or deposit, the impugned clauses (j) and (k) of Section 2(13) of the Act only uses the word "advance" and "not

advance at interest", or loan. There is, therefore, clear

intelligible differentia in excluding mere "advance which is not at

any interest" and not loan, which is "advance at interest" in

these exclusion clauses (j) and (k). 14. There cannot be any legitimate intention to include an

advance which is not even with any interest whatsoever, to be

covered under the net of Act. No intention to put any embargo

on the rights of the person who advances any sum without

interest is discernible from the statement of object and reasons

or the plain reading of the Act. Such mere advances, which are

not loan, i.e., advance at interest would therefore be a debt

which would be enforceable in law. Therefore, such advance

without interest is rightly excluded from the impugned clauses (j) and (k) of Section 2(13) of the Act. The Act seeks to regulate

and control the business of money lending and also to restrict

the rate of charging interest in respect of both secured and patilsr 12/16 crpil st. 41.19(FINAL).odt

unsecured loans. Neither there can be business of advancing

money without interest nor the Act seeks to put any restrictions

on such advances without interest. 15. Thus, such person who advances money without

interest on the basis of negotiable instrument as defined under

the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 other than promissory

note or on the basis of hundi is covered under the exclusion

clauses (j) and (k) of Section 2(13) of the Act. He cannot be

equated with an unregistered money lenders who is advancing

the money at interest on the basis of negotiable instrument

other than promissory note or on the basis of hundi. 16. Without licence under Section 4 of the Act, the claim of

the unregistered money lenders is not legally enforceable as per Section 13 of the Act. Section 13 of the Act reads as follows : 17. As per the intent of the legislation, particularly said Section 13 of the Act, the debt of unregistered money lender

who is giving loan, i.e., advancing money at interest on the basis

of negotiable instrument other than promissory note or on the

basis of hundi would not be legally enforceable. However, no

such disability can be attached to the debt of the person who

merely advances any sum without any interest. The suits by

such persons advancing money without interest are not barred

under Section 13 of the said Act. Only if the debt is enforceable

in law, various legal proceedings under the Negotiable

Instruments Act, 1881 , Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, the

Code of Civil Procedure , 1908, the Specific Relief Act, 1963 , the Contract Act, 1872 etc would be available to a person for

recovery of the debt. 18. Thus, the person who grants loan or advances money

at interest on the basis of negotiable instrument other than the patilsr 14/16 crpil st. 41.19(FINAL).odt

promissory note or on the basis of hundi are not covered under

the exclusion clauses (j) and (k) of Section 2(13) of the Act. The

penal provisions of the Act would be applicable to such persons

and they would require the licence under the Act. His debt

would not be legally enforceable debt for the purposes of Section 13 of the said Act. Unlicenced money-lender would be

liable for the prosecution and other penal actions as provided in

the said Act. Consequently, the unregistered money-lenders

would be precluded from availing the remedies of recovering of

legally enforceable debt under the Negotiable Instruments Act,

1881 , Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, the Code of Civil

Procedure , 1908, the Specific Relief Act, 1963 , the Contract Act,

1872 etc. 19. On the other hand, a person who merely advances any

sum without any interest does not require any registration under

the said Act due to exclusion in clauses (j) and (k) of Section

2(13) of the said Act. The penal provisions of the Act are not

applicable to such persons. Such person do not require licence

under the said Act and is legally entitled to avail the remedies

for recovery of legally enforceable debt under the Negotiable

Instruments Act, 1881 , Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, the patilsr 15/16 crpil st. 41.19(FINAL).odt Code of Civil Procedure , 1908, the Specific Relief Act, 1963 , the Contract Act, 1872 etc. The recovery proceedings by such

persons who give advance without interest cannot be termed as

harassment of borrowers who may be agriculturist or non

agriculturist, individual or entity. Since such person who gives

advance without interest do not require the licence, neither

licence fee prescribed under the Rules for issuance of licence is

payable by him nor is there any loss of revenue to the

exchequer as alleged on this account. In fact if such a person

who gives advance without interest is prosecuted or penalised,

the same would be manifestly arbitrary and violative or

provisions of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India. 21. In the light of above, in our considered opinion, the PIL

is without any merit and the same deserves to be dismissed.

Accordingly, we dismiss the PIL. [SURENDRA P. TAVADE, J.] [RANJIT MORE, J.] patilsr 16/16