This appeal, filed by the assessee, being ITA No. 4463/Mum/2016, is
directed against the appellate order dated 30th March,2016 passed by the
learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)- 10, Mumbai (hereinafter
called "the CIT(A)"), for the assessment year 2009-10, the appellate
proceedings before the learned CIT(A) arising from the assessment order
dated 20th January, 2015 passed by learned Assessing Officer (Hereinafter
called "the AO") u/s 143(3) r.w.s. 147 of the Income-tax Act,1961 (Hereinafter
called "the Act"). 2 ITA 4463/Mum/2016 2. The grounds of appeal raised by the assessee in memo of appeal filed
with the Income-Tax Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai (hereinafter called "the
tribunal") read as under:- 3 ITA 4463/Mum/2016 7. The appellant crave leave to add, amend , alter and/or vary any of
 the grounds of appeal before or at the time of hearing." 3. At the outset learned counsel for the assessee submitted that the
assessee did not wish to press ground no. 1,2,5 and 6 raised by the assessee
in memo of appeal filed with the tribunal and prayed that the same may be
dismissed as not being pressed. The learned counsel for the assessee
submitted that he wish to restrict his arguments to ground no. 3 and 4 raised
by the assessee in memo of appeal filed with tribunal. The ld DR did not
raised any objection to dismissal of ground no.1,2,5 and 6 . We have
considered rival contentions and perused the material on record and we
hereby order dismissal of ground no. 1,2,5 and 6 raised by the assessee in
memo of appeal filed with the tribunal as not being pressed. The ground no. 7
raised by the assessee is also general and does not require separate
adjudication by us and is hereby ordered to be dismissed as there are no
specific arguments in this context raised by the assessee during course of
hearing before us as well in written submissions before us . We order
accordingly. 4. Brief facts of the case are that the return of income declaring income of
Rs.6,28,330/- was filed by the assessee on 25th September, 2009 which was
originally processed by Revenue u/s.143(1) of 1961 Act. The assessment was
re-opened by the AO u/s 147 of 1961 Act by the issue of notice u/s. 148 of
the Act on 25th March, 2014 which was duly served on the assessee. In
response to notice u/s 148 of 1961 Act , the assessee submitted that original
return of income filed by the assessee on 25th September, 2009 u/s 139(1) of
1961 Act may be treated as return filed in response to notice u/s. l48 of 1961
Act. Reasons recorded by the AO prior to issue of notice u/s 148 of the Act
were also provided by the AO to the assessee. The assessee filed objections for
the reopening of the assessment vide letter dated 02.06.2014 which were
 4 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

 disposed off by the A.O. vide letter dated 06.05.2014. The A.O. while
 disposing off objections to re-opening observed that as per records of the
 Sales tax department there were 28 parties from whom the assessee had
 made hawala transactions who were involved in bogus billing. It was observed
 by AO that these parties just issue bills for commission without actual supply
 of goods. In an sworn Affidavit Cum Declaration filed before Sales Tax
 Investigation Branch, Mumbai and in deposition before the Assistant
 Commissioner of Sales tax, Investigation Branch, Mumbai ,the directors of
 the said 28 entities have admitted of issuing only invoices for sake of entry
 without delivery of goods, were the observation of the AO. The Directors of the
 said 28 entities stated in their sworn affidavit that they had only supplied
 bills on receipt of cheques and later on cash was withdrawn from banks and
 after deduction of agreed commission, balance money was returned in cash to
 the assessee. The A.O. observed that the statements of the hawala dealers
 were recorded under oath by the sales tax authority during survey action
 conducted in their premises and they have confessed to have issued bogus
 bills in lieu of fixed commission and the assessee company is one of the
 beneficiaries who has obtained bogus purchase bills amounting to
 Rs.2,39,83,261/- during the previous year relevant to assessment year 2009-
 10 from these twenty eight bogus parties as detailed below :- The assessee was asked by the AO to furnish details of sale and purchases
 giving name, address and the amount etc. . The assessee filed the details and
 from the details , the A.O. observed that the details were exactly matching
 with the information available with the A.O. Notices u/s.133(6) of the Act
 6 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

were issued by the AO to all the above 28 parties. All these notices except one
notice were either returned un-served or were not replied to. Only one party
namely M/s Ranakpur Sales Corporation, categorically stated that they have
not supplied any material to the assessee concern. The assessee was
confronted with the same whereby the assessee was asked to produce the
parties and also file the documents to substantiate the claim of purchase and
stock register, particulars of the transporter, medium of transport, date of
transport, transport voucher, octroi post records and payment particulars
etc.. The assessee submitted that an affidavit signed before the sales tax
authorities cannot be relied upon. It was submitted that the Revenue has
treated these parties as hawala operators because these dealers have not paid
taxes collected to VAT department. These dealers were raided by VAT
authorities and their dealership was cancelled. The assessee asked for cross
examination of all these parties. It was submitted that the sales were not
disputed by the Revenue and it was submitted that there cannot be sales
without purchases. The assessee submitted that it had purchased material
from all these parties and these parties are registered VAT certificate holders
and registration certificate is issued after thorough verification of all the
documents and proper visit by VAT officers. It was submitted that assessee is
doing business genuinely and all its purchases were genuine and from the
registered TIN holders which is supported with Tax invoice and challans. It
was submitted that all the payments were made through cheque and
deposited into their bank account. All the sale and purchase transactions
were supported with tax invoices, delivery challans, lorry receipts and hence
the assessee has discharged its burden. Statement of purchase and sales
showing name of the supplier and customers, date of purchase and sales ,
quantity purchased and sold to show one to one co-relation between
purchases and sales were submitted by the assessee before the AO. The
 7 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

assessee also submitted VAT audit report. It was submitted that sales are
fully vouched and without purchases, there cannot be sales and hence all
purchases are genuine. The stock register for full year and ledger copy of the
suppliers were also submitted . It was submitted that no addition can be
made on the basis of mere affidavit given by suppliers and it was submitted
that it will be highly unfair to treat the entire purchases as bogus and add
back the same as income u/s 69C of 1961 Act. The assessee relied upon
several case laws which are enumerated in page 10 & 11 of the assessment
order. The assessee has also sought cross examination of the parties who
have given statement against the assessee. The assessee was also issued a
fresh show cause letter dated 19.09.2014, whereby the assessee was
specifically asked to produce original bills and vouchers, all original
documentary evidence of movement of goods for verification, details and
documentary evidence of delivery challans, vehicle numbers, weighment slips,
details of godowns, details of octroi payment etc. . However, the assessee did
not produce the original documents before the A.O. . The assessee also
did not file documents for showing movement of goods from supplier to
assessee and from assessee to customer as evidence although it stated in
its reply that said documents are being filed. The assessee in nutshell
submitted that a mere affidavit filed by a person cannot in itself be an
evidence. It was submitted that the assessee was victimized for the fault of
the other parties. The sales were not disputed by the Revenue as without a
purchase how there can be sales. It was submitted that there was no cash
deposit in the bank and the payments have been made by the assessee to
selling parties by account payee cheques. It was also submitted that all
purchase and sale transactions are supported by tax invoice , delivery
challans , lorry receipts etc.. The assessee submitted that notice u/s 133(6) of the Act returned back due to change in the address and also there is a five
year gap between the date when transactions took place and the time when
notice u/s 133(6) of 1961 Act was issued. The A.O., however, rejected the
 8 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

contentions of the assessee and observed that M/s Ranakpur Sales
Corporations has categorically stated that they have not supplied any
material to the assessee company. The AO observed that the assessee did
not asked for cross examination of Ranakpur Sales Corporation and
rather ignored adverse findings given by Ranakpur Sales Corporation.
The assessee did not submitted documentary evidence to show that
there was movement of goods. The AO observed that the assessee filed
delivery challan in one case only and that too there was no mention of
transportation details. It was further observed that the notices issued to
28 parties returned un-complied with. The A.O. observed that the
affidavit is a vital piece of evidence and more so a corroborative evidence. The
statements recorded before the government authorities form a substantial
corroborative evidence. It is a case of default committed through an
organized scam to defraud the revenue in a systematic manner. The A.O.
observed that the sales were not disputed, however, at the same time it is a
fact established that the purchases are not genuine and the purchases have
not been made from the parties mentioned in the show cause notice rather
the goods were purchased from local grey market where unaccounted goods
are sold at much cheaper rate. Payment by account payee cheque in itself
does not make any transaction sacrosanct because in the instant case , cash
was withdrawn and received back by the assessee after adjusting the
commission. The assessee has not furnished any vital documents which can
prove movement of goods whereas the assessee was specifically called to
produce particular of transporter, medium of transport, date of transport,
transport voucher, octroi post records and payment particulars, ware houses
etc. to prove movement of goods from supplier to the assessee and from
assessee to customer. The assessee has stated that delivery challans and
lorry receipts were submitted but no such documents have been filed by
the assessee. It was observed by the AO that out of 28 parties, 27
parties have not responded to notices u/s 133(6) of 1961 Act issued to
 9 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

them. Moreover, the assessee was absolutely silent about M/s Ranakpur
Sales Corporations which has completely denied having supplied any goods or
materials to the assessee company. The assessee has not furnished the
required complete details, documents and evidences. It was observed that
the assessee has not submitted confirmations from these parties nor
transportation details of the material purported to be purchased from
these suppliers were furnished . The assessee also failed to produce
suppliers, transporters or brokers before the AO for verification and
enquiry. The AO held that since the assessee had made sales which were
duly quantitatively reconciled by the assessee with purchases , the AO held
that purchases were made by the assessee but the same were made at low
price from grey market and to cover deficiencies in documents, invoices were
obtained from these 28 suppliers who issued bogus bills to the assessee
without supplying any material. Thus, the AO held that the assessee failed to
prove the onus cast upon it to prove that purchases to the tune of Rs.
2,39,83,261/- made by the assessee were genuine purchases , which were
held by the AO to be bogus purchases as no material was supplied to the
assessee by these suppliers which material in-fact was purchased from grey
market at lower price which led to higher margin of profits which need to be
estimated and added to the income of the assessee. The AO relied upon
decision of ITAT, Ahmedabad in the case of Vijay Proteins Limited v. ACIT (1996) 58 ITD 428(Ahd.) and other decisions. Thus, the A.O. made gross profit
additions @ 12.5% over the total purchases of Rs. 2,39,83,261/- which was
held to be non-genuine , which addition came to Rs. 29,97,908/-, vide
assessment order dated 20-01-2015 passed by learned AO u/s 143(3) of 1961
Act. 5. Aggrieved by the assessment order dated 20-1-2015 passed by the A.O.
u/s 143(3) of 1961 Act , the assessee carried the matter further by filing first
appeal before the ld. CIT(A) who upheld the addition made by the A.O. and
 10 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

dismissed the appeal of the assessee vide appellate order dated 30-03-2016
passed by learned CIT(A). The learned CIT(A) also upheld the re-opening of
the assessment u/s 147 of 1961 Act , vide appellate order dated 30-03-2016
passed by learned CIT(A). 6. Aggrieved by the appellate order dated 30-03-2016 passed by learned
CIT(A), the assessee filed second appeal before the Tribunal. 7. The ld. Counsel for the assessee submitted that ground No. 3 is with
respect to challenging the additions made by applying gross profit rate of
12.50% to the alleged bogus purchases to the tune of Rs.2,39,83,261/- and
ground No. 4 is with respect to challenge to the legality and validity of
initiating proceeding u/s 147 of 1961 Act by issuing notice u/s 148 of 1961
Act. The ld. Counsel submitted that based upon the information received
from Sales Tax Department the Revenue has reopened the assessment. The
ground no . 1,2,5 and 6 were not pressed by the assessee and were already
dismissed by us vide our orders in preceding para's of this order. The ground
no. 7 being general was also disposed of accordingly as it does not required
separate adjudication. It was submitted that assessee is trader in ferrous and non-ferrous metals.
The genesis of re-opening was that the Sales Tax Department conducted raids
on the VAT dealers who have allegedly admitted in their statements/affidavits
that they were not involved in actual delivery of goods and had given
accommodation bills showing that they have sold the goods wherein only
paper invoice was issued while no material was delivered . It was submitted
that originally no scrutiny assessment was framed u/s 143(3) of the Act while
the return of income was only processed u/s 143(1) of the Act. The
assessment was re-opened within four years from the end of assessment year
by issue of notice u/s 148 of 1961 Act, dated 25-03-2014. It is submitted
 11 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

that no independent enquiry has been made by the A.O. and the AO merely
relied upon the information received from VAT department. Only at the fag
end of the period when the assessment was getting time barred, the
assessment was framed. No opportunity was granted to the assessee before
framing assessment and no cross examination was allowed, was the
contention of the assessee before the tribunal. The A.O. did not doubt the
investment made in the purchases by the assessee . Our attention was
specifically drawn to page 16 of the assessment order passed by the AO. The
issue now is with regard to application of GP ratio as to what is the
reasonable rate of GP ratio to be applied which is fair, reasonable, rational
and honest so far as assessee is concerned. The A.O. has estimated GP ratio
of 12.5% of alleged bogus purchases while no credit is given for declared GP
ratio. It is submitted that notice u/s 133(6) of 1961 Act were issued by the
AO to all 28 parties but the same were un-served except in one case , wherein
the said party deposed against the assessee and admitted that they were
engaged in accommodation entries and have only provided accommodation
entry to the assessee. The said party namely Ranakpur Sales Corporation ,
thus, responded to notice u/s 133(6) of the Act whereby they confirmed that
they have not supplied material and merely issued invoice without supplying
material to the assessee and only provided accommodation entry to the
assessee. The ld. Counsel drew our attention to the assessment order para
3.4 and 3.5 and submitted that no cross examination was granted to the
assessee. Our attention was also drawn to para 3.10 and 3.11 of the
assessment order. The assessee relied upon decision of J H Metal v. ITO reported in (2001) 71 TTJ 0683(Asr.trib.) The ld. Counsel submitted that the
assessee has declared following GP ratio for last three years: 8. The ld. D.R. submitted that local enquiries were made by the A.O. and
notice u/s 133(6) was issued to all the 28 parties and it is wrong to state that
no enquiries were made by the A.O. as stated by the ld. Counsel for the
assessee. It was submitted that 27 notices returned un-served or were not
replied with . Only one party namely Ranakpur Sales Corporation responded
and deposed against the assessee. Incriminating information was received
from Sales Tax authorities and subsequent to that statement on oath was
recorded of these dealers by Sales Tax Authorities in the form of
affidavits/statements wherein it was confirmed by these parties that they are
indulging in issuing bogus accommodation entries being hawala transactions
wherein only invoices were issued while no material was supplied . The
detailed movement of transportation of material was not furnished by the
assessee. The ld. D.R. relied upon the decision in the case of Vijay Proteins
Ltd. v. CIT (2015] 58 taxmann.com 44 (Guj) wherein Hon'ble Gujarat High
Court affirmed the additions to the tune of GP rate of 12.5%. 9. The ld. Counsel for the assessee, in the rejoinder, relied upon the
decision of the Tribunal in the case of M.M. Ratnam v. ITO in ITA No.
540/Mum/1996 for A.Y. 1989-90 and submitted that the assessment cannot
be re-opened. The A.O. has admitted that the investment in purchases were
not doubtful and hence there is no question of applying Section 69C of 1961
Act as the source is accepted. The ld. Counsel also submitted that written
submissions are placed before the tribunal which should be considered by
tribunal. The ld. Counsel for assessee also relied upon the decisions as
submitted in case laws /paper book placed in file bur specifically our
attention was drawn to following case laws:- 10. We have carefully considered the rival submissions and also perused
the material available on record. We have also carefully gone through the
case laws relied upon by the both parties as well written submissions filed by
the assessee. We have observed that the assessee is engaged in the business as supplier in
ferrous and non-ferrous metals. We find that the assessee filed its return of income with Revenue on 25th
September, 2009 which was processed by the Revenue u/s 143(1) of the Act
on 24th January, 2011. Thus, no scrutiny assessment u/s 143(3) r.w.s.
143(2) of 1961 Act was framed by Revenue while originally processing return
of income which was processed u/s 143(1) of 1961 Act. The case of the
assessee was re-opened by the AO u/s 147 of 1961 Act by issue of notice
dated 25.03.2014 u/s 148 of 1961 Act, which was re-opened within four
years from the end of assessment year. The reasons for re-opening were
recorded by the AO prior to the re-opening of the assessment by the Revenue,
which were supplied to the assessee and the assessee objected to the reasons
so recorded vide letter dated 02-06-2014 , which objections were disposed of
by Revenue in June 2014 itself . Thereafter , the assessment was framed by
the Revenue u/s 143(3) r.w.s. 147 of 1961 Act vide assessment order dated
20-01-2015. This is the background of the case which is undisputed between
the rival parties. 14 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

The genesis of the case is the Information which was received by the A.O.
from DGIT (Inv.), Mumbai that there are some parties who were engaged in
hawala transactions and are involved in issuing bogus bills for sale of
material without delivery of goods, which information was based on
information received by Revenue from Maharashtra Sales Tax Authorities that
the assessee is beneficiary of hawala/accommodation entries from 28 entry
providers to the tune of Rs. 2,39,83,261/- by way of bogus purchases . The
accommodation entry providers had deposed and admitted before the
Maharashtra Sales Tax Authorities vide statement/affidavits that they were
engaged in providing bogus accommodation entries where in bogus sale bills
were issued without delivery of goods , in consideration for commission.
These accommodation entry providers , on receipt of cheques from the
parties against bogus bills for sale of material , later on withdrew cash from
their bank accounts which was returned to beneficiaries of bogus bills after
deduction of their agreed commission . The assessee was stated to be one of
the beneficiaries of these bogus entries of purchase of material from these 28
hawala entry operators in favour of the assessee to the tune of
Rs.2,39,83,261/- , wherein the assessee made alleged bogus purchases to the
tune of Rs.2,39,83,261/- through these bogus bills issued by hawala entry
providers in favour of the assessee. These dealers were surveyed by the Sales
Tax Investigation Department whereby the directors of these dealers have
admitted in a deposition vide statements/affidavits made before the Sales Tax
Department that they were involved in issuing bogus purchase bills without
delivery of any material. There is a list of 28 such parties wherein the
assessee is stated to be beneficiary of bogus purchase bills to the tune of
Rs.2,39,83,261/-. Thus, tangible and material incriminating information was
received by the AO which clearly indicted assessee to be beneficiary of bogus
purchase entries to the tune of Rs. 2,39,83,261/- from 28 bogus entry
providers which formed the reasons to believe by the AO in forming an
opinion that income has escaped assessment and the information so received
 15 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

by the AO has live link with reasons to believe that income has escaped
assessment, wherein the Revenue recorded reasons to believe based on afore-
stated incriminating tangible and material information indicting assessee that
income of the assessee has escaped assessment and the assessment need to
be re-opened u/s 147 of 1961 Act based on such material and tangible
incriminating information indicting assessee. At this stage there has to be a
prima-facie belief based on some tangible and material information about
escapement of income and the same is not required to be proved to the hilt.
Thus, at this stage , there has to be prima-facie satisfaction of the AO based
on tangible and material incriminating information in his possession leading
to reasons to believe that income of the assessee has escaped assessment .
That is in a subsequent stage when assessment is being framed u/s 143(3) r.w.s. 147 of 1961 where necessary and detailed opportunities are required to
be given to the assessee for rebuttal before fastening tax liability as per
scheme and mandate of 1961 Act. It is to be noted also that in the instant
case no scrutiny assessment u/s 143(3) r.w.s. 143(2) of 1961 Act was framed
originally by the Revenue while processing assessee's return of income filed
with Revenue . Return of income of the assessee was originally processed by
Revenue u/s 143(1) of the Act only. There was , thus, no formation of opinion
as intimation u/s 143(1) of 1961 Act is not an assessment. Thus, there
cannot be a change of opinion as no opinion was initially formed by the AO as
return was originally processed u/s 143(1) of 1961 Act and no scrutiny
assessment was framed by Revenue u/s 143(3) r.w.s. 143(2) of 1961 Act.
Thus, it could not be said that no tangible and material incriminating
material was received by the A.O. , rather it is only after receipt of tangible
and material incriminating material by the AO from DGIT(Inv) incriminating
assessee as detailed above , the assessment was reopened u/s 147 of the Act
based on such tangible and material incriminating information , and notices u/s 148 was issued by the AO on 25th March, 2014, which is issued within
four years from the end of the assessment year. Thus, it cannot be said that
 16 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

the Revenue has reopened the assessment based upon suspicion rather
genesis of re-opening is incriminating information received from DGIT(Inv),
Mumbai based on information received from Maharashtra Sales Tax
Department wherein bogus accommodation entry providers have deposed and
admitted before Sales Tax Authorities that they are engaged in providing
accommodation entries wherein only bogus bills were issued for sale of
material in lieu of commission wherein no material is actually supplied by
these accommodation entry and the cheque amount was returned back to the
beneficiaries in cash after deducting their commissions. The assessee is
stated to be beneficiary in the said list of having allegedly received entries
from 28 bogus accommodation entry providers to the tune of Rs.
2,39,83,261/-. The original return was processed u/s 143(1) of the Act, and
thus no opinion was formed and hence there is no change of opinion.
Reliance is placed on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
ACIT v. Rajesh Jhaveri, (2007) 291 ITR 500 (SC), wherein Hon'ble Supreme
Court vide orders dated 23-05-2007 has held as under : 17 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

 tax deducted at source, any advance tax or any amount paid otherwise
 by way of tax or interest, an intimation was to be sent without prejudice
 to the provisions of section 143(2) to the assessee specifying the sum so
 payable and such intimation was deemed to be a notice of demand
 issued under section 156 . The first proviso to section 143(1)(a) allowed
 the Department to make certain adjustments in the income or loss
 declared in the return. They were as follows : 12. What were permissible under the first proviso to section 143(1)(a) to
 be adjusted were, (i) only apparent arithmetical errors in the return,
 accounts or documents accompanying the return, (ii) loss carried
 forward, deduction allowance or relief, which was prima
 facie admissible on the basis of information available in the return but
 not claimed in the return and similarly (iii) those claims which were on
 the basis of the information available in the return, prima
 facie inadmissible, were to be rectified/allowed/disallowed. What was
 permissible was correction of errors apparent on the basis of the
 documents accompanying the return. The Assessing Officer had no
 authority to make adjustments or adjudicate upon any debatable
 issues. In other words, the Assessing Officer had no power to go behind
 the return, accounts or documents, either in allowing or in disallowing
 deductions, allowance or relief. 13. One thing further to be noticed is that intimation under section
 143(1)(a) is given without prejudice to the provisions of section 143(2) .
 Though technically the intimation issued was deemed to be a demand
 notice issued under section 156 , that did not per se preclude the right of
 the Assessing Officer to proceed under section 143(2) . That right is
 preserved and is not taken away. Between the period from 1-4-1989 to
 18 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

31-3-1998, the second proviso to section 143(1)(a) , required that where
adjustments were made under the first proviso to section 143(1)(a) , an
intimation had to be sent to the assessee notwithstanding that no tax or
refund was due from him after making such adjustments. With effect
from 1-4-1998, the second proviso to section 143(1)(a) was substituted
by the Finance Act, 1997 , which was operative till 1-6-1999. The
requirement was that an intimation was to be sent to the assessee
whether or not any adjustment had been made under the first proviso to section 143(1) and notwithstanding that no tax or interest was found
due from the assessee concerned. Between 1-4-1998 and 31-5-1999,
sending of an intimation under section 143(1)(a) was mandatory. Thus,
the legislative intent is very clear from the use of the word "intimation"
as substituted for "assessment" that two different concepts emerged.
While making an assessment, the Assessing Officer is free to make any
addition after grant of opportunity to the assessee. By making
adjustments under the first proviso to section 143(1)(a) , no addition
which is impermissible by the information given in the return could be
made by the Assessing Officer. The reason is that under section
143(1)(a) no opportunity is granted to the assessee and the Assessing
Officer proceeds on his opinion on the basis of the return filed by the
assessee. The very fact that no opportunity of being heard is given
under section 143(1)(a) indicates that the Assessing Officer has to
proceed accepting the return and making the permissible adjustments
only. As a result of insertion of the Explanation to section 143 by the
Finance (No. 2) Act of 1991 with effect from 1-10-1991, and
subsequently with effect from 1-6-1994, by the Finance Act, 1994 , and
ultimately omitted with effect from 1-6-1999, by the Explanation as
introduced by the Finance (No. 2) Act of 1991 an intimation sent to the
assessee under section 143(1)(a) was deemed to be an order for the
purposes of section 246 between 1-6-1994, to 31-5-1999, and under
section 264 between 1-10-1991, and 31-5-1999. It is to be noted that
the expressions "intimation" and "assessment order" have been used at
different places. The contextual difference between the two expressions
has to be understood in the context the expressions are used.
Assessment is used as meaning sometimes "the computation of income",
sometimes "the determination of the amount of tax payable" and
sometimes "the whole procedure laid down in the Act for imposing
liability upon the tax payer". In the scheme of things, as noted
above, the intimation under section 143(1)(a) cannot be treated to
be an order of assessment. The distinction is also well brought out by
the statutory provisions as they stood at different points of time. Under
section 143(1)(a) as it stood prior to 1-4-1989, the Assessing Officer had
to pass an assessment order if he decided to accept the return, but
under the amended provision, the requirement of passing of an
 19 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

 assessment order has been dispensed with and instead an intimation is
 required to be sent. Various circulars sent by the Central Board of Direct
 Taxes spell out the intent of the Legislature, i.e., to minimize the
 departmental work to scrutinize each and every return and to
 concentrate on selective scrutiny of returns. These aspects were
 highlighted by one of us (D.K. Jain J) in Apogee International
 Ltd. v. Union of India [1996] 220 ITR 248 (Delhi). It may be noted above
 that under the first proviso to the newly substituted section 143(1), with
 effect from 1-6-1999, except as provided in the provision itself, the
 acknowledgement of the return shall be deemed to be an intimation
 under section 143(1) where (a) either no sum is payable by the
 assessee, or (b) no refund is due to him. It is significant that the
 acknowledgement is not done by any Assessing Officer, but mostly by
 ministerial staff. Can it be said that any "assessment" is done by them ?
 The reply is an emphatic "no". The intimation under section 143(1)(a)
 was deemed to be a notice of demand under section 156, for the
 apparent purpose of making machinery provisions relating to recovery of
 tax applicable. By such application only recovery indicated to be
 payable in the intimation became permissible. And nothing more can be
 inferred from the deeming provision. Therefore, there being no
 assessment under section 143(1)(a), the question of change of
 opinion, as contended, does not arise. 14. Additionally, section 148 as presently stands is differently couched
 in language from what was earlier the position. Prior to the substitution
 by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, the provision read as
 follows : 15. Section 147 prior to its substitution by the Direct Tax Laws
 (Amendment) Act, 1987, stood as follows : Explanation 1.--For the purposes of this section, the following shall
 also be deemed to be cases where income chargeable to tax has
 escaped assessment, namely:-- Explanation 2.--Production before the Assessing Officer of
 account books or other evidence from which material evidence
 could with due diligence have been discovered by the
 Assessing Officer will not neces-sarily amount to disclosure
 within the meaning of this section." 16. Section 147 authorises and permits the Assessing Officer to
 assess or reassess income chargeable to tax if he has reason to
 21 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

believe that income for any assessment year has escaped
assessment. The word "reason" in the phrase "reason to believe" 22 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

 Assessing Officer could have jurisdiction to issue notice under
 section 148 read with section 147(a). But under the substituted
 section 147 existence of only the first condition suffices. In
 other words if the Assessing Officer for whatever reason has
 reason to believe that income has escaped assessment it
 confers jurisdiction to reopen the assessment. It is however
 to be noted that both the conditions must be fulfilled if the
 case falls within the ambit of the proviso to section 147.
 The case at hand is covered by the main provision and not
 the proviso. 18. So long as the ingredients of section 147 are fulfilled, the
 Assessing Officer is free to initiate proceeding under section 147
 and failure to take steps under section 143(3) will not render the
 Assessing Officer powerless to initiate reassessment proceedings
 even when intimation under section 143(1) had been issued. 19. Inevitable conclusion is that High Court has wrongly
 applied Adani Exports case (supra) which has no application to the
 case on the facts in view of the conceptual difference between
 section 143(1) and section 143(3) of the Act. 20. Learned counsel for the respondent submitted that other points
 are available to be raised. Since no other point was urged before
 the High Court, we find no reason to examine if any other point
 was available. The appeal is allowed without any orders as to
 costs." Thus, we hold that reopening is valid and legal in the instant case as the ratio
of decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Rajesh Jhaveri Stock
Brokers Private Limited(supra) is directly and squarely applicable to the facts
of the instant case, as in the instant case also no assessment was originally
framed u/s 143(2) r.ws. 143(3) of 1961 Act while the return of income was
originally processed u/s 143(1) of 1961 Act , and hence no opinion was
formed by the AO as processing u/s 143(1) of 1961 Act cannot be said to be
an assessment and hence there is no question of change of opinion in the
 23 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

instant case. The re-opening was also done within four years from the end of
assessment year and first proviso to Section 147 of 1961 Act is not applicable.
The AO has received an tangible and material incriminating information from
DGIT(Inv) , Mumbai which was based on incriminating information received
from Sales Tax Department which we have detailed in preceding para's and it
was reflected in said incriminating information that the assessee was
beneficiary of bogus accommodation entry to the tune of Rs. 2,39,83,261/-
from 28 hawala dealers, which information is a tangible and material
information sufficient for the purposes of re-opening of the assessment in the
instant case as the said re-opening is done by the AO within four years from
the end of the assessment year and no scrutiny assessment u/s 143(3) r.w.s.
143(2) of 1961 Act was framed originally by Revenue, thus, consequently first
proviso to Section 147 of 1961 Act was not applicable in the instant case
under appeal before the tribunal. The incriminating tangible and material
information so received by the AO is with regard to the facts previously
disclosed which has comes into possession of the AO which tends to expose
the untruthfulness of those facts as were disclosed in the return of income by
the assessee, which return of income was incidentally also not scrutinized by
the Revenue. The incriminating information so received by the AO in the
instant case which became foundation for re-opening of the assessment was
sufficient to form reasons to believe by the AO that income has escaped
assessment, as the assessee was specifically incriminated in the said
information having received bogus accommodation entries for purchases to
the tune of Rs. 2,39,83,261/- from 28 bogus entry providers being hawala
traders providing accommodation purchase bills without actual delivery of
material . In such situations, it is not a case of mere change of opinion or the
drawing of a different inference from the same facts as were earlier available
but acting on fresh information exposing un-truthfulness of information
furnished in return of income filed with Revenue. We are of the considered
view that on the basis of information received and if the assessing officer is
 24 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

satisfied that reasonable ground exists to believe, then in that case the power
of the assessing authority extends to re-opening of assessment, which in the
instant case the conditions are duly met for re-opening based on factual
matrix of the case. The tangible and material incriminating information so
received by the AO from DGIT(Inv.), Mumbai which in turn was based on
information received from Maharashtra Sales Tax Authorities incriminating
assessee to be beneficiary of Hawala transactions being recipient of bogus
accommodation entries from 28 entry operators to the tune of
Rs.2,39,83,261/- which is based on deposition and admission of these entry
providers before other Government authority being Maharashtra VAT
authorities is so obvious that to say that the AO has not applied his mind to
reach satisfaction in forming reasons to believe that income of assessee has
escaped assessment to initiate re-opening u/s 147 of 1961 , is too far-fetched
and such contention of the assessee is out-rightly rejected. There is live link
between material and tangible incriminating information received by the
assessee and formation of reasons to believe that income of the assesse has
escaped assessment in the instant case under appeal before us. The decision
of Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in the case of Varshaben Sanatbhai Patel v.
ITO (supra) relied upon by the assessee is distinguishable wherein the AO
recorded reasons that reopening was done based on the verification of details
available on records while in-fact information was received from DGIT(Inv),
Mumbai about bogus purchases which had no relation with reasons recorded
and the AO based on material on record could not have formed an opinion
that the income has escaped assessment, while in the instant case before the
tribunal reasons were recorded based on information received from DGIT(Inv),
Mumbai w.r.t. assessee un-holy involvement with 28 bogus entry providers
wherein the assessee is beneficiary of bogus entries of purchases to the tune
of Rs.2,39,83,261/-. The Court in the case of Varshaben Sanatbhai Patel (
supra) held that reasons recorded cannot be supplemented in the affidavit or
by the order rejecting the objections , which is not the case in the instant
 25 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

appeal. The other decisions relied upon by the assessee are also not
applicable to the facts of this case. In the case of Signatures Hotels Private
Limited (supra), the AO received information from DIT(Inv.) that the loan of Rs.
5 lacs received by the assessee was accommodation entry but it did not
specify any reference to document or statement on the basis of which such
conclusions was drawn that income has escaped assessment , while in the
instant case there is an information received from DGIT(Inv.),Mumbai which
is backed with information from Maharashtra Sales Tax Department that
there are 28 entities through whom assessee made bogus purchases of
material as these entities were engaged in providing accommodation entries
only without supplying any material, which in turn was also supported by
deposition's by way of affidavit/statements of these 28 hawala entry
providers. Similarly , in the case of Eveready Industries India Limited(supra),
the genesis of the additions are the statement of a common director that
certain payments made by tax-payer were accommodation entries, while the
re-opening was done by AO where there was no definite or specific material
before the AO to come to conclusion that income has escaped assessment ,
while in the instant case before us there were definite tangible and material
incriminating information before the AO based on information received from
the DGIT(Inv) , Mumbai which is backed with information from Maharashtra
Sales Tax Department that there are 28 entities through whom assessee
made bogus purchases of material as these entities were engaged in providing
accommodation entries only without supplying any material, which in turn
was also supported by deposition's by way of affidavit/statements of these 28
hawala entry providers. While, we are conscious that the reassessment notice
should not have been routinely issued, at the same time, the nature of power
is wide enough that when there is an escapement of income and the Revenue
has information ruling that this escapement is also relatable to suppression
of material facts (which could include false claims), the power to reopen
concluded assessment can validly be exercised . This contention is supported
 26 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

by decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Principal CIT v.
Paramount Communication Private Limited (2017) 79 taxmann.com
409(Delhi) . Thus, Respectfully following the decision of Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of Rajesh Jhaveri Stock Brokers Private Limited(supra), we
hold that re-opening of the assessment as done in the instant case by the AO
u/s 147 of 1961 was valid and legal which is upheld by us , and the
contentions of the assessee are , hereby, rejected. No contrary decision of
Hon'ble Apex Court is brought to our notice . This ground of the assessee
challenging legality and validity of re-opening is hereby dismissed. We order
accordingly. 11. Now, coming to the merits of the case, we have observed that the
assessee is dealing in the business as supplier in ferrous and non-ferrous.
The genesis of the case is the Information which was received by the A.O.
from DGIT (Inv.), Mumbai that there are some parties who are engaged in
hawala transactions and are involved in issuing bogus bills for sale of
material without delivery of goods, which information was based on
information received from Maharashtra Sales Tax Authorities that the
assessee is beneficiary of hawala/accommodation entries for bogus purchases
from 28 entry providers to the tune of Rs. 2,39,83,261/- from these
accommodation entry providers . The accommodation entry providers had
deposed and admitted before the Maharashtra Sales Tax Authorities vide their
statement/affidavits that they were engaged in providing bogus
accommodation entries where in bogus sale bills were issued without delivery
of goods , in consideration for commission. These accommodation entry
providers , on receipt of cheques from the parties against bogus bills for sale
of material , later on withdrew cash from their bank accounts which was
returned to beneficiaries of bogus bills after deduction of their agreed
commission . The assessee was stated to be one of the beneficiaries of these
bogus entries of sale of material by these 28 hawala entry operators in favour
 27 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

 of the assessee to the tune of Rs.2,39,83,261/- , wherein the assessee made
 alleged bogus purchases to the tune of Rs.2,39,83,261/- through these bogus
 bills issued by hawala entry providers in favour of the assessee. These
 dealers were surveyed by the Sales Tax Investigation Department whereby the
 directors of these dealers have admitted in a deposition vide
 statements/affidavits made before the Sales Tax Department that they were
 involved in issuing bogus purchase bills without delivery of any material.
 There is a list of 28 such parties wherein the assessee is stated to be
 beneficiary of bogus purchase bills to the tune of Rs.2,39,83,261/-. It was
 observed by AO that these parties just issue bogus bills in lieu for earning
 commission without actual supply of goods. In an sworn Affidavit Cum
 Declaration filed before Sales Tax Investigation Branch, Mumbai and in
 deposition before the Assistant Commissioner of Sales tax, Investigation
 Branch, Mumbai ,the directors of the said 28 entities have admitted of issuing
 only invoices for sake of entry without delivery of goods. The Directors of the
 said 28 entities stated in their sworn affidavit that they had only supplied
 bills on receipt of cheques and later on cash was withdrawn from banks and
 after deduction of agreed commission, balance money was returned in cash to
 the assessee. The details of the aforesaid bogus parties from whom the
 assessee is stated to have purchased material are as under:- Notices u/s.133(6) of the Act were issued by the AO to all the above 28
 parties. All these notices except one notice were either returned un-served or
 were not replied to. Only one party namely M/s Ranakpur Sales Corporation,
 categorically stated that they have not supplied any material to the assessee
 concern. The A.O. asked the assessee to produce the parties but the assessee
 29 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

failed to produce the parties. The parties were not produce even before
learned CIT(A) . The assessee also failed to produce suppliers, transporters or
brokers before the AO for verification and enquiry. The assessee did not ask
for the cross examination of Ranakpur Sales Corporation. The assessee was
specifically asked to produce original bills and vouchers, all original
documentary evidence of movement of goods for verification, details and
documentary evidence of delivery challans, vehicle numbers, weighment slips,
details of godowns, details of octroi payment etc. . However, the assessee did
not produce the original documents before the A.O. . The assessee also
did not file documents for showing movement of goods from supplier to
assessee and from assessee to customer as evidence although it stated in
its reply that said documents are being filed. The assesee did not
submitted documentary evidence to show that there was movement of goods.
The AO observed that the assessee filed delivery challan in one case only and
that too there was no mention of transportation details. It was observed that
the assessee has not submitted confirmations from these parties nor
transportation details of the material purported to be purchased from these
suppliers were furnished . Statement of purchase and sales showing name of
the supplier and customers, date of purchase and sales , quantity purchased
and sold to show one to one co-relation between purchases and sales were
submitted by the assessee before the AO. The assessee also submitted VAT
audit report. It was submitted that sales are fully vouched and without
purchases, there cannot be sales and hence all purchases are genuine. The
stock register for full year and ledger copy of the suppliers were also
submitted and the assessee was able to quantitatively reconcile the sale and
purchase of material. The assessee has also made the payments for these
purchases through cheque for which evidence has been produced. It was
submitted that there was no cash deposit in the bank and the payments have
been made by the assessee to selling parties by account payee cheques. . It
was held by authorities below that since the assessee had made sales which
 30 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

were duly quantitatively reconciled by the assessee with purchases , the
purchases were made by the assessee but the same were made at low price
from grey market and to cover deficiencies in documents, invoices were
obtained from these 28 suppliers who issued bogus bills to the assessee
without supplying any material. Thus, the AO held that the assessee failed to
prove the onus cast upon it to prove that purchases to the tune of Rs.
2,39,83,261/- made by the assessee were genuine purchases , which were
held by the authorities below to be bogus purchases as no material was
supplied to the assessee by these suppliers which material in-fact was
purchased from grey market at lower price which led to higher margin of
profits which need to be estimated and added to the income of the assessee .
The learned CIT(A) confirmed the additions. These are information which are
especially in the knowledge of the assessee and the onus is on the assessee to
prove that purchases are genuine as these purchases are recorded in the
books of accounts of the assessee. Section 106 of Indian Evidence Act ,1872
clearly stipulates as under: The assessee was not able to discharge burden cast u/s 106 of 1872 Act as
the assessee did not produce the original documents before the A.O. .
The assessee also did not file documents for showing movement of goods
from supplier to assessee and from assessee to customer as evidence
although it stated in its reply that said documents are being filed. The
 31 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

assesee did not submitted documentary evidence to show that there was
movement of goods. The assessee filed delivery challan in one case only and
that too there was no mention of transportation details. The assessee did not
file confirmations from these parties nor transportation details of the
material purported to be purchased from these suppliers were furnished .
The parties were also not produced before the authorities below. The only
party who responded to notice u/s 133(6) of 1961 Act issued by the AO
namely Ranakpur Sales Corporation deposed against the assessee. The
assessee did not ask for cross examination of Ranakpur Sales Corporation
who appeared before the AO in response to notice u/s 133(6) of 1961 Act and
deposed against the assessee by confirming that bogus bills were issued by
them in lieu of commission while no material was supplied against bogus
invoices raised by them. The right of cross examination is not absolute. The
assessee has to first discharge its primary onus cast under law and if the
same stood duly discharged which is not rebutted by authorities , but despite
that then also the authorities proceed to put assessee to prejudice solely
relying on the basis of incriminating statement recorded of third party at the
back of the assessee, then certainly the right to cross examination the said
third party whose incriminating statement recorded at the back of the
assessee is relied upon by authorities to prejudice the assessee will become
absolute. But in the instant case , primary onus cast on the assessee itself
did not stood discharged by the assessee as discussed above. The A.O. made
gross profit additions @ 12.5% over the total bogus purchases of Rs.
2,39,83,261/- , which were held to be non-genuine by the authorities below,
which addition came to Rs. 29,97,908/- which addition was confirmed by the
learned CIT(A). . In such circumstances ,GP ratio needs to be estimated which
definitely involved some estimation/guess work but the said estimation/guess
work should be fair , honest and rational keeping in view factual matrix of
the case and cannot be arbitrarily applied at the discretion of authorities . We
have gone through the case laws relied upon by the assessee. Reference is
 32 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

drawn to decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Kachwala Gems v.
JCIT (2007) 288 ITR 10(SC) , wherein Hon'ble Lordships held as under : 5. Thereafter, the books of account of the assessee were rejected by the
 Assessing Officer and he resorted to best judgment assessment under section 144 of the Income-tax Act. The Assessing Officer in the
 assessment order mentioned some comparable cases and was of the
 view that the case of the assessee is more or less having similar facts as
 that of M/s. Gem Plaza where the Gross Profit has been taken as 35.48
 per cent. The Assessing Officer estimated the Gross Profit of the assessee
 as 40 per cent. 6. The Assessing Officer further held that the assessee has shown bogus
 purchases in order to reduce the Gross Profits. 7. In appeal, the Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals) upheld most of
 the findings of the Assessing Officer, but reduced the Gross Profit from 40
 per cent to 35 per cent. 33 ITA 4463/Mum/2016 8. In further appeal, the Tribunal had given further relief to the assessee
 and reduced the Gross Profit rate to 30 per cent. 9. The counsel for the assessee has submitted before us that the income-
 tax authorities wrongly held that appellant has shown bogus purchases,
 and the books of account were wrongly rejected. 10. In our opinion, whether there were bogus purchases or not, is a
 finding of fact, and we cannot interfere with the same in this appeal. As
 regards the rejection of the books of account, cogent reasons have been
 given by the income-tax authorities for doing so, and we see no reason to
 take a different view. 11. It is well-settled that in a best judgment assessment, there is always
 a certain degree of guess work. No doubt the authorities concerned
 should try to make an honest and fair estimate of the income even in a
 best judgment assessment, and should not act totally arbitrarily, but
 there is necessarily some amount of guess work involved in a best
 judgment assessment, and it is the assessee himself who is to blame as
 he did not submit proper accounts. In our opinion, there was no
 arbitrariness in the present case on the part of the income-tax authorities.
 Thus, there is no force in this appeal, and it is dismissed accordingly. No
 costs." The authorities below in the instant case did not made any industry
comparisons to arrive at fair , honest and rational estimation of GP ratio ,
rather applied GP ratio of 12.5% on alleged bogus purchases which
estimation was in addition to the normal GP ratio declared by the assessee in
return of income filed with Revenue. The Revenue made aforesaid additions
relying on the presumption that the material was in-fact purchased from grey
market at a lower rate and to cover deficiencies in record, the invoices were
procured from these entry operators to reduce the profit. It was also
considered that there will be savings on account of taxes while procuring
material from grey market. The authorities below relied upon decision of
Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in the case of Simit P Sheth (2013) 356 ITR
451(Guj. HC) , which has estimated disallowance @12.5% of the disputed
bogus purchases to meet the end of justice. The authorities below has not
brought on record industry comparables nor any rational comparability vis-à- 34 ITA 4463/Mum/2016

vis preceding years GP ratio are brought on record. There is no allegation
brought on record by learned DR that similar additions were also made in the
immediately preceding year . The assessee earned GP ratio as detailed
hereunder for last three years : The books of accounts were not rejected u/s 145(3) of 1961 Act by the
Revenue . In the immediately preceding year i.e. assessment year 2008-09,
the assessee earned GP ratio of 4.3% on total turnover , while for the year
under consideration GP ratio earned was 5.45%. In our considered view and
based on facts and circumstances of the case as discussed by us in details
above, end of justice will be met in this case if GP ratio of 12.5% on alleged
bogus purchases is added to income of the assessee against which credit for
the declared GP ratio on the alleged bogus purchases will be granted by the
AO after verification by the AO because of failure of the assessee to come
forward to discharge primary onus cast upon him as detailed above for which
assessee is to be blamed and in the midst of afore-stated un-rebutted
allegation against the assessee and non discharge of primary onus, the
declared lower GP ratio of 5.45% in the instant previous year under appeal
cannot be accepted. Thus, in nut-shell we are inclined to adopt GP ratio of
12.5% on alleged bogus purchases in the instant case which in our
considered view is fair, reasonable and rational keeping in view factual matrix
of the case , while the assessee shall be granted credit of GP ratio declared on
these bogus purchases in the return of income filed with the Revenue. The
assessee gets part relief. We order accordingly
 35 ITA 4463/Mum/2016 12. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee in ITA No. 4463/Mum/2016
 for assessment year 2009-10 is partly allowed as indicated above. Order pronounced in the open court on 4th April, 2017. आदे श क घोषणा खुले #यायालय म% &दनांकः 04-04-2017 को क गई । आदे श क! " त$ल%प अ&े%षत/Copy of the Order forwarded to : आदे शानुसार/ BY ORDER,

 स या=पत 9त //True Copy//
 उप/सहायक पंजीकार (Dy./Asstt. Registrar)
 आयकर अपील
य अ धकरण, मुंबई / ITAT, Mumbai