(Per Shri Dhanraj Khamatkar,
 Honble Member ) 
 

  
 

(1) This appeal takes an exception to an order dated
 25/11/2010 in Consumer Complaint No.457/2009, Jesna Jose Vs. 1.H.D.F.C.Ltd. & ors., passed by District
 Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Thane (Forum in short). (2) The facts of the case in brief can be summarized
 as under:- The bank has risk monitoring system. Whenever the opponent bank notices a
 doubtful transaction, the opponents inform to the card holder. The opponents have also a Fraud Alert
 Management System. The opponents further
 contended that the complainant has not registered her Forex Card for SMS
 alert service and hence they could not send SMS to the complainant. The opponents further contended that when
 they noticed that there are doubtful transactions, they have tried to
 contract the complainant for 3 days. However, finally they succeeded to contact to her father. The moment, the opponent came to know
 that the transactions have not been done by the complainant; they have put
 the card in hot list. They have
 further stated that they come to know about doubtful transaction on
 16/12/2008 when they verified the entries of 15/12/2008, they informed to
 the father of the complainant on 18/12/2008 and when her father informed to
 the bank on 20/12/2008 that the transactions have not been done by the
 complainant, they hot listed the card. The opponents alleged that the transactions were carried out because
 of the negligence of the complainant and hence there is no deficiency in
 service on their part and the complaint filed by the complainant may please
 be dismissed. (5) The District Forum after going through the
 complaint, written version filed by the opponents, the evidence filed by
 both the parties on affidavits, pleadings of the advocates of both the
 parties came to conclusion that there is deficiency in service on the part
 of the opponents and allowed the complaint directing the opponents to pay
 an amount of $6110 in Indian currency within a period of 45 days with an
 interest @12% p.a. from 16/12/2008, `40,000/- for the mental agony and
 `5,000/- as costs. The District Forum further directed that
 if the amount is not paid within 45 days, the amount will carry additional
 interest @3% p.a. till the realization of the amount. (6) Being aggrieved by the order, the opponents filed
 the present appeal. We heard
 Mr.Ashutosh Marath-advocate for the appellant bank and Mr.Jose Parackar,
 A/R for the respondent. (7) Admittedly, the respondent had taken a Forex
 Card. The appellant bank claimed
 that Forex Card is very secured, safe, convenient and easy to track the
 instrument. While using the card,
 the card holder has to sign a charge slip. In the present case, the signature on the charge slip and the specimen
 signature of the complainant available with the opponents materially differs. It establishes that the amount was
 allowed to be paid without verifying the specimen signature of the
 complainant available with the opponents. In their written version, they have admitted that they noticed the
 suspicious transaction between the period from 15/12/2008 and 17/12/2008
 and tried to contact the complainant. However, they were not able to contact the complainant. Hence, they finally contacted the father
 of the complainant on 18/12/2008 and on 20/12/2008 on the instructions of
 the father of the complainant, they have frozen the card. They also admitted that while verifying
 the entries of 15/12/2008 they have noticed suspicious transaction on
 16/12/2008. In fact, had the
 opponents verified the signature on transaction slip with the specimen
 signature, the unauthorized transaction would not have occurred. In para
 8.1.4.1 of the Code of Commitment to the customer, the opponents have given
 commitment that If you do not recognize the transaction, which appears
 on your card statement we will give more details if ask. In case where we do not accept your
 contention we will give evidence that you had authorized the transaction in
 question. This is a commitment
 given by the appellants to the respondent being a card holder. Here, the respondent has proved beyond
 doubt that she has not used her card for the said transaction. The respondent had given sufficient
 evidence to prove that she had not done the transaction by using the card. She had filed FIR with the police
 authorities and the police has conducted the investigation and identified
 the person who has made the transaction. In view of this fact, as per the commitment given by the opponent to
 the customer, they failed to give evidence that the complainant had
 authorized the transaction in question. Considering the aforesaid facts, it is established beyond doubt that
 the transactions are unauthorized transactions and not done by the
 respondent and the same could take place as the appellants failed to verify
 the signature on transaction slips with the specimen signature of the
 respondent. (8) The learned advocate for the appellants tried to
 take pleas that the complaint is filed by the authorized representative of
 the complainant and the authorized representative of the complainant has
 filed evidence on affidavit. However, the respondent had filed the complaint on the basis of the
 documentary evidence and over looking the documentary evidence will not
 meet the ends of justice. There is a
 clear cut deficiency in service on the part of the appellant bank and the
 District Forum has passed an order taking into consideration the facts
 & circumstances of the case. We
 do not find any reason to interfere in the same. We hold accordingly and pass the
 following order. ORDER 
 

  
 

(1) The appeal stands dismissed. (2) The impugned order dated 25/11/2010
 passed by the District Forum, Thane in Consumer Complaint No.457/2009 is
 hereby confirmed. (3) Under the circumstances, parties to
 bear their own costs. (4) Inform the parties accordingly. Pronounced on 9th April,
 2013. [HON'BLE MR. S.R. Khanzode]
 
 
 
 
 

PRESIDING MEMBER
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 

  
 

[HON'BLE MR. Dhanraj Khamatkar]
 
 
 
 
 

Member
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

  

 

pgg