Date: 10-10-2017

 Against the common judgment of conviction and

 sentence, these two appeals (CR. APP (SJ) No.116 of 2015) on behalf

 of convict Md. Firoz Alam, (CR. APP (SJ) No.176 of 2015) on behalf

 of convict, Naushad @ Naushad Alam arose. As such, have been

 heard together and are being decided by a common judgment. 2. Initially five accused persons were put on trial, out

 of whom, Kamurul Hoda, Ranjeet and Nityanand were acquitted

 while these two appellants have been found guilty for an offence 2 punishable under Section 489(B) and 489(C) of the IPC and each one

has been sentenced to undergo R.I. for ten years as well as to pay fine

of Rs.20,000/- in default thereof, to undergo R.I. for one year (12

months), under Section 489(B) IPC and R.I. for seven years as well as

to pay fine of Rs.10,000/- and in default thereof to undergo RI for six

months under Section 489(C) of the IPC with a further direction to

run the sentences concurrently by the Adhoc Additional Sessions

Judge, Araria vide judgment of conviction dated 23.08.2015 and order

of sentence dated 27.08.2015 in connection with Sessions Trial

No.514 of 2013/649 of 2013/106/2013. 3. S.I., Rambilash Singh, (PW-4) O/C of Palasi PS

recorded his self statement on 03.06.2012 at about 10.30 P.M.

disclosing therein that on the same day at about 6.15 P.M. after having

been confidentially informed regarding transportation of counterfeit

Indian currency notes, ambushed at Denga Chowk where one person,

seeing the police, began to flee whereupon they became suspicious

and accordingly, chased and apprehended. In presence of two seizure

list witnesses, namely, Md. Ekram and Abdul Razzak, he was

interrogated who disclosed his identity as Firoz Alam, son of Late

Md. Islam resident of village Kumhiya P.S. Palasi, District Araria.

Then thereafter, he was searched and during course thereof three

counterfeit Indian currency notes of Rs.1,000/- denomination (serial 3 number incorporated) as well as 70 pieces of fake Indian currency

notes of Rs.500/- denomination (serial no. disclosed) seven fake

Indian currency notes of Rs.100 denomination (serial no. disclosed)

were seized for which, search-cum-seizure was prepared. On

interrogation, he further disclosed that Ranjeet Yadav of village-

Belwari happens to be kingpin and under his command Naushad of

village Kunhiya, Kamrul Hoda of village-Jokihat and Nitynand were

actively discharging their activity. It has also been disclosed that

Ranjeet happens to be the carrier. He had further stated that fake

currency notes is available at the house of Naushad which could be

recovered in case the raid is promptly conducted. Informing the local

police station in presence of two seizure list witnesses Md. Ekram and

Saiful conducted raid at the house of Naushad who was found absent.

During search of house, an almirah, which was kept in a room

exclusively in possession of Naushad, two bundles of Rs.500/-

denomination having wrapper of State Bank of India each containing

100 pieces were recovered and seized as during course of inspection

of the same 10 notes in each bundles along with six notes of Rs.100

denomination were found fake and for that, search-cum-seizure list

was prepared. During course of inspection of the notes, it is evident

that serial number of some of the fake notes recovered from the

possession of Firoz as well as Naushad were the same relating to 4 Rs.100/- denomination. 4. As such, Palasi P.S. Case No.57 of 2012 was

registered followed with investigation and after completing the same

charge-sheet was submitted against apprehended accused Firoz as

well as Naushad at first instance while against the remaining

subsequently, whereupon commitment took place at two different

stages, two Sessions Trial Numbers were marked but later on, both

were amalgamated and proceeded under common trial. 5. The accused persons pleaded not guilty to the

charge. They have also pleaded that nothing was recovered from their

possession. On behalf of appellant, Naushad two DWs have been

examined in support of his contention, DW-1 Md. Jamaluddin, DW-2

Mujahid. 6. In order to substantiate its case, the prosecution

had examined altogether eight PWs out of whom PW-1, Devraj

Ray, PW-2, Munni Lal Singh, PW-3, Brahmdeo Pandit, PW-4, Ram

Bilash Singh, PW-5, Prashant Kumar, PW-6, Shiv Shankar Kumar,

PW-7, Bijay Kumar Yadav and PW-8, Mithilesh Kumar. 7. Side by side had also exhibited, Ext-1 self

statement, Ext-2 series, seizure list. As stated above, two witnesses

have also been examined on behalf of Naushad, i.e., DW-1, Md.

Jamaludding and DW-2, Mujahid. 8. Learned counsel for the appellants while assailing

the judgment of conviction and sentence impugned has submitted that

the learned lower court failed to consider the niceties of the

ingredients of Section 489(B)(C) of the IPC. On the other hand, dealt

with evidence in casual manner and so, the judgment impugned is fit

to be set aside. The prime contention having at the end of the learned

counsel for the appellants is that mens rea unless and until proved at

the end of the prosecution would not constitute an offence under Section 489(B) ,(C) of the IPC irrespective of quantum of recovery of

alleged fake currency notes and to substantiate his argument relied

upon Umashankar v. State of Chhattisgarh as reported in 2002 PLJR

(1)154(SC). 9. It has also been argued that after going through

the evidences adduced on behalf of the prosecution, it is apparent that

the prosecution has failed to substantiate the same. Hence finding

recorded by the learned lower Court happens to be based upon

surmises. In its continuity, it has also been submitted that the witnesses so

examined were not at all an expert and that being so, there should have

been proper examination of the recovered currency notes by an expert and

further would have been examined. The prosecution is silent on that very

score whereupon even accepting the persecution case that there was

recovery of currency notes would not justify the finding relating 6 to being fake, counterfeit and so, appellants could not be convicted for

possessing counterfeit, fake currency notes. It has also been submitted

that the recovery from the possession of respective appellants have

become doubtful in the background of the fact that Md. Ekram

happens to be the police stamp person readily available to justify

nefarious activity of the police as he shifted along with police officials

right from the place where Firoz was apprehended to the village of

Naushad. However, none of the seizure list witnesses has been

examined on behalf of prosecution nor there happens to be an

explanation relating to their non-examination. Considering the

presence of other witnesses, who happen to be the police officials

have lost their credibility on account of inconsistency amongst their

evidence apart from the fact that they would bent upon to get the

appellants convicted in order to cover up their own misdeeds. In the

aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case would not be a reliable

witness and so, the learned lower Court should not have accepted their

evidence to be creditworthy in order to record judgment of convection

and sentence. Consequent thereupon these appeals are fit to be allowed. 10. Learned APP controverted the submission made on

behalf of appellants and submitted that presence of Firoz over search and

seizure list is indicative of the fact that same was prepared in his presence

on account of recovery of counterfeit Indian currency 7 notes which, during course of trial as well as during course of his

statement recorded under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C is found

unexplained. Consequent thereupon, the factum of search, recovery

followed with seizure of counterfeit currency notes gone out of

controversy. It has also been submitted that further conduct of Firoz is

also to be seen who during course of inculpatory extra-judicial

confessional statement made crucial divulgence identifying the other

co-accused to be actively involved in such kind of anti-national

activity as well as at his pointing out, house of Naushad was raided

and during course thereof, fake currency notes were also recovered

therefrom. Though, Naushad was absent but, in the background of the

aforesaid activity, Section 29 of the Evidence Act would be applicable

whereunder inculpatory extra-judicial confessional statement of co-

accused is to be taken into consideration against Naushad and as

Naushad failed to explain the recovery of counterfeit currency notes

whereupon the judgment of conviction recorded by the learned lower

Court is fit to be confirmed. 11. Before going to scrutinize the evidence having

available on the record on behalf of respective parties, certain salient

features relating to issues involved in this case is to be considered. (a) Mere a witness being a police official, his

evidence would not be liable to be rejected unless and until it is shown 8 that it suffers from malice and grudge. However, their activity is to be

perceived in consonance with the facts of an individual case much

less, where there happens to be possibility of independent witness,

then, in that event, it has to be seen with suspicious eye. (b) Non-examination of witnesses in ordinary course

of nature would not cause dent in the prosecution case but in case of

withdrawal of an important witness without any explanation will

certainly embark upon adverse to the prosecution case, more

particularly, in terms of Section 114(g) of the Evidence Act. (c) Now coming to the ingredients of the offence, the

word „counterfeit‟ has been defined under Section 28 of the IPC

which reads as follows:- A person is said to "counterfeit" who causes

one thing to resemble another thing, intending by means of that

resemblance to practice deception, or knowing it to be likely that

deception will thereby be practiced. Explanation 1.--It is not essential to counterfeiting

 that the imitation should be exact. Explanation 2.--When a person causes one thing to

 resemble another thing, and the resemblance is such that a

 person might be deceived thereby, it shall be presumed,

 until the contrary is proved, that the person so causing the

 one thing to resemble the other thing intended by means of 9 that resemblance to practise deception or knew it to be

 likely that deception would thereby be practised.] 12. In the aforesaid background, it looks better to see

Section 489(B) as well as 489(C) of the IPC , are quoted below:- 13. From plain reading of respective Sections, it is

apparent that 489B will be applicable only in the case when there

happens to be an effort at the end of accused to get it circulated for the

purpose so enumerated therein and unless and until the activity of the

accused is properly identifiable on the basis of the evidence having

been adduced in terms thereof then only, conviction could be recorded

under Section 489B of the IPC. So far applicability of Section 489(C) of the IPC is concerned, it would apply only when possession is found

duly exposed with knowledge which the accused was carrying since

before with regard to currency notes being fake or counterfeit. Unless

there happens to be conclusive evidence on the above score, no

conviction under Section 489C of the IPC would be attracted. That

happens to be spirit of law which has also been explained by the Apex

Court as referred on behalf of the appellants as reported in 2002 PLJR

(1)114 SC (supra). 14. Now the evidence of the prosecution witnesses is

to be seen in the aforesaid background. The evidence of the informant

PW-4 is to be taken first. He had deposed that on the alleged date and

time of occurrence, he was O/C of Palasi P.S. On that day at about

6.15 P.M. while he along with other police officials had gone in 11 routine patrolling, reached at Dengachowk, he received confidential

information with regard to transportation of fake currency notes

whereupon they ambushed. One person, seeing the police, began to

flee as a result of which they became suspicious over his abnormal

conduct and accordingly, chased and apprehended who on query

disclosed his identity as Firoz. In presence of seizure list witnesses,

when he was searched out three fake currency notes of Rs.1,000/-

denomination. seventy fake currency notes of Rs.500/-, seven fake

currency note of 100/- denomination were recovered and seized for

which seizure list was prepared. On interrogation, he had exposed the

racket wherein Ranjeet, Naushad, Kamrul Hoda and Nitiyanand were

actively involved. He had further disclosed that fake currency notes is

also available at the place of Naushad which could be recovered in

case raid is conducted immediately. Whereupon other police stations

were informed and then raid was conducted at the place of Naushad

wherefrom two bundles of currency notes of Rs.500/- denomination

(100 pieces), six pieces fake currency notes of denomination of 100

were seized. During course of inspection of the currency notes, it was

found that ten pieces of fake currency notes were mixed along with

remaining of Rs.500/- denomination having wrapper of State Bank of

India and for that seizure list was prepared. Naushad was not present

at his house. Then thereafter he returned back along with the accused 12 Firoz as well as seized counterfeit currency notes. During cross-

examination at para-5 he had stated that Firoz was not fleeing over

bicycle. Firoz was apprehended by him. He was joined by other police

officials. He had searched whole body of Firoz. Fake currency notes

were recovered from his left pocket. In para-7 he had stated that after

apprehension of Firoz, he was searched out and during course thereof,

fake currency notes were recovered from his possession which was

counted and then, search-cum-seizure list was prepared. There was no

genuine currency notes. The total fake currency notes were 38,700/-.

After counting the currency notes, he kept the same along with him.

On behalf of Naushad at para-10, he had disclosed that Firoz was

apprehended at 7 P.M. during midst thereof, he was searched out,

search-cum-seizure list was prepared. Then, thereafter he had gone to

the place of Naushad. Main door was opened. He is not remembering

how many family members were there. He awaken all of them as well

as persons having adjoining houses. He is not remembering how many

persons have entered inside the house of Naushad. He had further

stated that witnesses were present. Fake currency notes which was

recovered was in two bundles of Rs.500/- denomination. Search and

seizure was prepared and during course thereof, serial number of fake

currency notes were incorporated. He had denied the suggestion that

no counterfeit notes were recovered from the possession of the 13 Naushad. 15. PW-1 Deoraj Rai was S.I. of Bhargana P.S. As

directed joined with PW-4 during course of raid and had accordingly,

deposed with regard to apprehension of Firoz on chase. Recovery of

counterfeit notes, inculpatory extra-judicial confessional statement

made by Firoz and then on his pointing out house of Naushad was

raided and during course thereof, there was recovery of counterfeit

notes including genuine currency of denomination 500/- as well as

100/-. During course of cross-examination, at the end of Naushad he

had admitted at para-7 that wife of Naushad along with 2-3 persons

were present at the time of raid. They met with them in the Angan. All

the police personals remained in the Angan. 16. PW-2 a Sepoy posted at Palasi P.S. had reiterated

the same. During cross-examination at para-6 he had stated that he is

not aware what was stated by Firoz before officer-in-charge. In para-9

he had said that one person was apprehended at Denga Chowk while

none was apprehended at village-Kunhaiya. He was unable to divulge

boundary of the house of Naushad. 17. PW-3 reiterated the same version with certain

variance that when they were at Denga Chowk, they had seen one

person fleeing over bicycle who was apprehended and then on query

disclosed himself to be Firoz who made inculpatory extra-judicial 14 confessional statement. He had further stated that on search

counterfeit notes (two bundles) having wrapper of State Bank of India

was seized and for that seizure list was prepared. During course of

statement he had named Nityanand, Ranjeet, Naushad. Furthermore,

on his pointing out house of Ranjeet was raided, identified Firoz.

During cross-examination at para-4 he has stated that Firoz was

apprehended at Denga Chowk. O/C was there. He was interrogated at

that very place. He came to know from O/C. 18. PW-5 was posted at Araria P.S. as S.I. who was

directed by SHO to go to Palasi P.S. for apprehension of notorious

criminals, Hafiz and Idris. He reached there and then O/C Palasi P.S.

had informed that as consignment of counterfeit notes in bulk is to be

transported on account thereof, they had cordoned the place and then

had detailed apprehension of Firoz, recovery of counterfeit currency

notes of Rs.38,700/-, inculpatory extra-judicial confessional statement

made by Firoz, raid was conducted at the house of Naushad, recovery

of counterfeit currency notes therefrom and then, returned back to

Palasi P.S. Subsequently he came to know regarding apprehension of

one Ranjeet also. During cross-examination at para-8 he had stated

that he had seen one person fleeing barefoot at Dengachowk. They

were not knowing since before regarding Firoz. In para-10 he had stated

that fake Indian currency notes were recovered from right pocket of full- 15 pant. Recovered notes were counted by the O/C and then seizure list

was prepared. In para-12 he had stated that at the place of Naushad at

village-Kunhiya they remained in courtyard while O/C had gone

inside and then disclosed regarding recovery of counterfeit Indian

currency notes. In para-13 he had stated that how many females,

males were present at the place of Naushad, he is not remembering.

Seizure list was prepared in his presence at the place of Naushad. 19. PW-6 on the alleged date and time of occurrence

was deputed as SI Araria P.S. As per direction of SHO he had gone to

Palasi P.S. and there he was informed regarding plan. They had gone

to Dengachowk where one person, seeing the police began to flee who

was apprehended and disclosed his identity as Firoz and on search,

from his right pocket of full-pant fake Indian currency notes

appertaining to 38,700/- was recovered for which search-cum-seizure

list was prepared. On his inculpatory extra-judicial confessional

statement, raid was conducted at the place of Naushad who was

absent but there was recovery. He is not remembering how many

amount was seized thereform. During cross-examination at para-5 he

had stated that who apprehended Firoz he is not remembering. He is

not remembering whether his shop lies at Dengachowk or not. Firoz

had tried to slip barefoot. Then, thereafter, they had gone to the place

of Naushad on the basis of inculpatory extra-judicial confessional 16 statement made by Firoz. At para-10 he has stated that they had gone

to the house of Naushad. He along with 6-7 officials had gone inside

house of Naushad. It was a single story pucca building. Indian

currency notes were seized which the O/C had disclosed to be fake. 20. PW-7 in likewise manner, had deposed that he

was posted at Araria P.S. and was directed by O/C to assist in

conduction of raid, apprehension of miscreants whereupon had gone

Palasi and then narrated the activity. During cross-examination, he

had stated at para-9 that the raid was conducted under the supervision

of SP. 21. PW-8 happens to be the IO. He had deposed that

after registration of case on the self statement of Rambilash Officer-

in-Charge, investigation was entrusted to him. At an earlier occasion,

he was informed by the O/C to assist as raid was going to be

conducted for apprehension of notorious criminals, namely, Hafiz and

Idrish at Dengachowk where they reached and during course thereof,

was informed regarding transportation of counterfeit currency and

during course thereof, had seen one person fleeing in suspicious

circumstance who was apprehended and on search, there was recovery

of fake Indian currency notes, seized. Seizure list was prepared. Then

thereafter on interrogration, he made inculpatory extra-judicial

confessional statement whereupon house of Naushad was raided and 17 during course thereof, counterfeit Indian currency notes were

recovered. Naushad was not present at his place. Then they returned

back along with seized currency notes. During course of investigation,

he had conducted raid and during course thereof, Ranjeet and

Nityanand were apprehended. Munna was also apprenhedned. He

recorded statement of other witnesses. Sent the currency notes for

Forensic examination. Received forensic examination report

wherefrom, it is evident that seized currency notes happens to be

counterfeit. During course of cross-examination at paragraph-6 he had

stated that he was one of the members of the raiding party as well as

IO. When they conducted raid at the place of Naushad, he was not

present. Recovery was made by the O/C. Seized currency notes were

counterfeit. After apprehension, search and seizure list were handed

over to him. He had also stated that after apprehension, search and

seizure at Dengachowk, O/C handed over money to him. They had

deposited the aforesaid amount in the Malkhana but he had not

mentioned the same in the case diary. When amount was withdrawn

from the Malkhana he also not mentioned the same in the case diary.

In para-10 he had stated that when he had gone to the place of

Naushad 5-6 persons were there. No copy of seizure list was handed

over to the family members of Naushad nor their signatures were

taken. He had further stated that currency notes were transmitted for 18 forensic examination six months after the occurrence. There happens

to be no description of serial number of currency notes in the forensic

report. In para-14 he had stated that Firoz was apprehended at the

spot. Hafiz and Idrish were also apprehended. All the members of the

police party had cordoned Firoz and then apprehended. Cash was

counted by him. Search was made by the officer-in-charge. He had

further stated that shop of Firoz lies by the side of the place of

occurrence. He had further stated that Firoz was fleeing at the relevant

juncture. 22. So far Naushad is concerned, it is apparent that

he was not present at the time when raid was conducted. Though some

of the notes of Rs.100 denomination containing same serial number

were recovered from almirah but there happens to be no disclosure at

the end of prosecution that the said room or the said almirah was

exclusively under the domain of Naushad. Apart from this, from the

seizure list Ext-2, it is evident that it was received by Firoz and not by

family members whose presence, from the evidence as discussed

hereinabove were there. Apart from this, the witnesses, more

particularly, Ekram who stood against Firoz regarding recovery

having at Denga Chowk was carried to the place of Naushad lying at

Village-Kunhiya ignoring the family members and co-villagers. Apart

from this, from the evidence available on the record, theme of joint 19 possession would not ruled out and cumulative effect, did not justify

the finding of the learned lower court against him. Consequent

thereupon, the judgment of conviction and order of sentence recorded

against Naushad is not at all found sustainable in the eye of law and is

accordingly set aside. As such, Cr.Appeal(SJ) No.176 of 2015 is

allowed. 23. Since Naushad @ NaushadAlam is on bail, he is

discharged from the liabilities of his bail bond. 24. Now coming to the case of Firoz, it is apparent

that he was apprehended at Dengachowk while he was fleeing. There

happens to be consistent evidence with regard to recovery of

counterfeit Indian currency notes. Although FSL report is silent

identifying serial no. of fake currency notes which was examined but

from the written report seizure list, it is evident that four currency

notes of Rs.100/- denomination carrying the same serial number

which happens to be IQS 294166 while two currency notes of

Rs.100/- denomination also carrying the same serial number as IQS

294104 were found seized and that being so, whatever deficiency

relates to FSL report the same is not going to axe upon the case of the

prosecution because of the fact that there would not be common serial

number over two currency notes and so, possession of fake Indian

currency note is found duly substantiated. During course of cross- 20 examination, it is apparent that none of the PWs have been cross-

examined on that very score. In the aforesaid facts and circumstances

of the case non-examination of seizure list witnesses is not going to

cast any kind of dent over the prosecution, more particularly, when

there happens to be presence of appellant Firoz over the search and

seizure list which also not been denied during course of cross-

examination nor suggested though in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. there happens to be mere denial in casual manner. It is evident

from the evidence of PW-7 that he was one of the members of the

raiding party in spite of being entrusted with the investigation. During

course of cross-examination, it is evident that neither the O/C PW-4

nor the IO has been cross-examined to the effect that whether any

other police official remained at police station or not and so, the

appellant could not be able to discredit his status as there might be

situation whereunder all the police officials might have participated

during course of raid. Furthermore, the issue has been considered and

explained by the Apex Court in the case of Pramod Kumar v. State

(GNCT) of Delhi reported in AIR 2013 SC 3344. 25. Furthermore, in case of Ram Kumar v. State

(NCT) of Delhi as reported in AIR 1999 SC 2259, it has been

observed:- " that merely on account of non-examination of any

individual witness, the evidence of police officials would not be 21 rejected." Status of informant being I.O. of the case has also been

duly acknowledged by the Apex Court in Bhaskar Ramappa Madar

v. State of Karnataka reported in 2009 CrLJ 2422. 26. From the evidence available on the record, as

discussed above, it is evident that appellant Firoz had not pleaded that

he was not able to identify, distinguish the counterfeit Indian currency

notes and so, though he was in possession of the aforesaid counterfiet

currency notes, he was under bonafide belief that the aforesaid

currency notes were genuine. Had there been, then in that event the

case would have given a different colour, mode of appreciation would

have been different and then in that circumstance, there would have

been an application of the principle decided by the Hon'ble Apex

Court reported in Umashanker v. State of Chhattisgarh 2002

PLJR(1)154 (SC), as men rea would have been lacking but the fact of

the case is otherwise. During cross-examination of all the witnesses,

nothing has been suggested that accused was under bonafide belief

that the currency which were possessed by him were genuine currency

notes on the other hand, there happens to be consistent evidence of the

prosecution witness that the accused began to flee seeing the police

whereupon he was apprehended and searched wherefrom counterfeit

Indian currency notes were recovered. During cross-examination, it is

also evident from the evidence of PW-4, informant as well as PW-7, 22 the IO, that he had not questioned his presence over the seizure list.

Fleeing therefrom after seeing a police suggest that he was knowing

since before that the Indian currency notes which were along with him

happen to be counterfeit otherwise there was no occasion for him to

run away seeing the police. 27. That being so, the genuineness of the seizure list

is found affixed. After going through the same, it is evident that so

many fake currency notes of same serial number have been seized

from the possession of appellant, Firoz and for that, in the background

of deficiency having at his end would be adverse to his interest and in

the aforesaid background, non production of seized currency notes

would not cause any kind of disability in the prosecution case.

Furthermore, while appreciating the applicability of Section 489 of

the IPC, the object of legislature is also to be taken note of. By way of

introduction of aforesaid Section, the legislature not only intended to

protect the currency of Indian nation rather also tried to protect the

authenticity of the currency as well as bank notes and the same has

been properly considered and explained in the case of State of Kerala

v. Mathai Verghese as reported in (1986) 4 SCC 746 " that manifests

purpose of the provision is to protect people from being deceived or

cheated by ensuring that a person accepting a currency note is given

a genuine currency which may exchanged for goods or services and 23 not a worthless piece of paper which will bring him nothing in return,

is being a counterfeit or a forged currency notes" 28. In K. Hasim v. State of Tamil Nadu as reported

in AIR 2005 SC 128, it has been held as follows:- Mathai Verghese and Ors. (AIR 1987 SC 33) the
 expression 'currency notes' is large and wide enough
 in its amplitude to cover the currency notes of any
 country. Section 489C is not restricted to Indian
 currency note alone but it includes dollar also and it
 applies to American dollar bills. 29. After analyzing and crystallizing the evidence

available on the record inconsonance with the ancillary event

minutely, wherefrom it is evident that during course of conduction of

trial, Firoz failed to rebut the allegation in terms of Section 28(2) of

the IPC. However, the prosecution failed to place by cogent evidence

that Firoz was indulged to use the fake currency notes on account 24 thereof, the finding recorded by the learned lower court against the

 appellant, Md. Firoz Alam with regard to Section 489(B) / 34 of the

 IPC is not at all found sustainable and to that extent, the judgment of

 conviction and order of sentence recorded by the learned lower court

 is set aside, affirming the conviction and sentence relating to Section

 489 (C) of the IPC. Accordingly, Cr.Appeal(SJ) No.116 of 2015 is

 partly allowed. 30. Appellant Md. Firoz Alam is on bail. His bail

 bond is hereby cancelled directing him to surrender before the learned

 lower court within a fortnight to serve out the remaining period of

 sentence failing which, the learned lower court will proceed against

 him in accordance with law.