आयकर अपील य अ धकरण, मुंबई यायपीठ, 'जी',मुंबई। IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
 MUMBAI BENCHES "G", MUMBAI

 ी जो ग दर संह, या यक सद य एवं
 ी जी. मंजूनाथ, लेखा सद य, के सम 

 Before Shri JOGINDER SINGH, Judicial Member, and
 Shri G. MANJUNATHA, Accountant Member

 ITA NOs.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016
 Assessment Years: 2007-08 to 2009-10
DCIT, M/s. Galaxy Premises Pvt. This bunch of the six appeals is by the Revenue

against the impugned orders all dated 16/09/2016 of the

Ld. First Appellate Authority, Mumbai, deleting the penalty

imposed under section 271E and 271D of the Income Tax

Act, 1961 (hereinafter the Act), on the ground that the

genuineness of the transactions were not established by

the assessee. 2. During hearing, the ld. CIT-DR, Shri Abhijit

Patankar, defended the penalty imposed by the Ld.

Assessing Officer by contending that the Ld. Commissioner

of Income Tax (Appeal) ignored the factual matrix, while

deleting the penalties, that the assessee did not establish

the genuineness of the transaction. On the other hand, the

ld. counsel for the assessee, Shri Vijay Mehta, defended the

impugned order by claiming that the impugned issue is

covered by the decision from Hon'ble Delhi High Court in

the case of Commissioner of Income-tax v. Noida Toll

Bridge Co. Ltd. 262 ITR 260 (Del.) and also from

jurisdictional High Court in the case of CIT vs Ajinath Hi- M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. Tech Builders Pvt. Ltd. (ITA NO.171 of 2015) and Lodha

Crown Buildmart Pvt. Ltd./Lodha Builders Pvt. Ltd. (ITA

NO.202 of 2015 and 213 of 2015), order dated

06/02/2018. It was also pleaded that the issue in hand is

also covered by the decision of the Tribunal in the case of

Vimal Enterprises vs JCIT (ITA NO.6390/Mum/2016),

order dated 14/06/2017. In reply, the Ld. CIT-DR, relied

upon the decision from Hon'ble Bombay High Court in CIT

vs Triumph International Finance (I) Ltd. (2012) 22

taxmann.com 138 (Bom.). 2.1. We have considered the rival submissions and

perused the material available on record. The facts, in brief,

are that the assessee is engaged in the business of

construction and land development. A search and seizure

action under section 132 of the Act was carried out upon

Lodha Group on 10/01/2011, wherein, undisclosed

transactions were found and as a result about 200 crores

was disclosed by the group. Such disclosure was made on

account of undisclosed receipt on account of sale of car

parking in the housing projects, cash loans/deposits, etc.

As per the Revenue, the assessee violated the provisions of 4 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. section 269SS of the Act. A show cause notice was issued

to the assessee as to why penalty under section 271D should not be levied. The assessee filed its submissions

vide letter dated 13/07/2015, which has been reproduced

in the penalty order. The Ld. Assessing Officer place

reliance upon various decisions and initiated penalty

proceedings under section 271D / 271E of the Act. Penalties were imposed as has been mentioned in the

respective penalty order. 2.2. On appeal before the Ld. Commissioner of

Income Tax (Appeal), the impugned penalties were deleted

against which the Revenue is in appeal before this

Tribunal. 2.3. Before adverting further, now we shall analyze

certain case laws, which were relied upon by both sides. The Ld. CIT-DR place reliance upon the decision in

Triumph International Finance India Ltd., order dated,

12/06/2012 (2012) 22 taxmann.com 138 (Bom), wherein,

the Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court observed/held as

under:- 2. The assessment year involved herein is AY 2003-04. 3. The respondent-assessee, a Public Limited Company, is a member of
the National Stock Exchange and is also a Category I Merchant Banker,
registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). The
assessee is engaged in the business of shares, stock broking, investment
and trading in shares and securities. 4. In the assessment year in question, the assessee had filed its return of
income declaring loss of Rs. 17,27,21,815/-. The assessment was
completed on 5th November 2003 under Section 143(3) of the Income
Tax Act, 1961 ('Act' for short) determining loss at Rs. 9,84,92,500/-. 5. Prior to 1st April 2002, the assessee had accepted a sum of Rs.
4,29,04,722/- as and by way of loan/inter-corporate deposit from the
Investment Trust of India which was repayable during the assessment
year 2003-2004. During the previous year relevant to the assessment
year in question, the assessee on 3rd October 2002 had transferred
1,99,300 shares of Rashal Agrotech Limited held by it to the Investment
Trust of India for an aggregate consideration of Rs. 4,28,99,325/-. Thus,
in the assessment year in question, the assessee was liable to repay the
loan/inter-corporate deposit amounting to Rs. 4,29,04,722/- to the
Investment Trust of India and receive Rs. 4,28,99,325/- from
Investment Trust of India towards sale price of the shares of Rashal
Agrotech Limited sold by the assessee to the Investment Trust of India.
Instead of repaying the loan/inter-corporate deposit to the Investment
Trust of India and receiving the sale price of the shares from the
Investment Trust of India, both the parties agreed that the amount
payable/receivable be set-off in the respective books of account by
making journal entries and pay the balance by account payee cheque.
Accordingly, after setting off of the mutual claim through journal
entries, the balance amount of Rs. 5,397/- due and payable by the
assessee to the Investment Trust of India was paid by a crossed cheque
dated 19th February 2003 drawn on the Citibank. 6. In view of the objections raised in the Audit Report regarding
repayment of loan/inter-corporate deposit otherwise than by an account
payee cheque or draft, the assessing officer issued a show-cause notice
calling upon the assessee to show cause as to why action should not be
taken against the assessee for violating the provisions of Section 269T of the Act. The assessee opposed the show-cause notice by filing a
detailed reply. However, by an order dated 21st March 2006 passed
under Section 271E of the Act, the assessing officer on the basis of the 6 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. report of the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Lok Sabha and Rajya
Sabha on the Stock Market Scam imposed penalty amounting to Rs.
4,28,99,325/- on the ground that the assessee had repaid the loan/inter-
corporate deposit to the extent of Rs. 4,28,99,325/- in contravention of
the provisions of Section 269T of the Act. 7. On appeal filed by the assessee, the Commissioner of Income Tax
(Appeals) by his order dated 21st December 2006 confirmed the penalty
levied upon the assessee. On further appeal filed by the assessee, the
Tribunal by the impugned order dated 29th January 2008 allowed the
appeal by following its decision in the case of V N Parekh Securities
Private Limited and Ketan V Parekh and held that the payment through
journal entries do not fall within the ambit of Section 269SS or 269 T of
the Act and consequently no penalty can be levied either under Section
271D or Section 271E of the Act. Challenging the aforesaid order, the
Revenue has filed the present appeal. 8. Mr. Suresh Kumar, learned counsel appearing for the Revenue
submitted that the assessee belongs to the Ketan Parekh Group, which is
involved in the securities scam. He submitted that the Ketan Parekh
Group was found to be indulging in large scale manipulation of prices
of select scripts through fraudulent use of bank and other public funds
and had flouted all the norms of risk management by making
transactions through a large number of entities so as to hide the nexus
between the sources of funds and their ultimate use with the sole motive
of evading tax. He submitted that since the language of Section 269T of
the Act is clear and unambiguous, the Tribunal ought to have held that
repayment of the loan/inter-corporate deposit otherwise than by account
payee cheque or demand draft was in violation of the provisions of Section 269T of the Act and, hence, the penalty imposed under Section
271E of the Act was justified. 9. Mr. Pardiwala, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the
respondent - assessee, on the other hand submitted that Section 269T of
the Act has been enacted to curb the menace of giving false explanation
of the unaccounted money found during the course of search and
seizure. He submitted that the bona fide transaction of repayment of
loan or deposit by way of adjustment through book entries carried out in
the ordinary course of business would not come within the mischief of
the provisions of Section 269T of the Act. Referring to the legislative
history as also the circulars issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes
from time-to-time, Mr.Pardiwala submitted that Sections 269SS and 269T were not meant to hit the genuine transactions and the legislative
intent is to mitigate any unintended hardships caused by the provisions
to genuine transactions. He submitted that in the present case
genuineness of the transactions entered into by the assessee with the
Investment Trust of India is not in doubt. No additions on account of
the impugned transactions have been made in the regular assessment
made under Section 143(3) of the Act. He submitted that Section 269T postulates that if a loan or deposit is repaid by an outflow of funds,
same has to be by an account payee cheque or demand draft. He
submitted that discharge of the debt in the nature of loan or deposit in a 7 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. manner otherwise than by an outflow of funds would not be hit by the
provisions of Section 269T . 10. Mr. Pardiwala further submitted that in the present case Rs.
4,29,04,722/- was due and payable by the assessee to the Investment
Trust of India and the assessee was liable to receive a sum of Rs.
4,28,99,325/- from the Investment Trust of India. Instead of repaying
the amount by account payee cheque/demand draft and receiving back
the amount by way of demand draft/cheque, the parties as and by way
of commercial prudence have settled the account by netting off the
accounts and paid the balance by account payee cheque. Relying on a
decision of the Apex Court in the case of J.B. Boda & Co. (P.) Ltd. v. CBDT [1997] 223 ITR 271 /[1996] 89 Taxman 311, counsel for the
assessee submitted that the two-way traffic of forwarding bank draft
and receiving back more or less same amount by way of bank draft was
unnecessary and, therefore, in the facts of the present case, no fault
could be found with the repayment of loan through journal entries. 11. Mr. Pardiwala submitted that Section 269T , if plainly read, supports
the contention of the Revenue that each and every loan or deposit has to
be repaid only by an account payee cheque or draft. However, such
literal interpretation, if accepted, would lead to absurdity because, by
such interpretation not only mala fide transactions but even the genuine
transactions would be affected. Relying on the judgments of the Apex
Court in the case of Asstt. Director of Inspection (Investigation) v. Kum . A.B. Shanthi [2002] 255 ITR 258 / 122 Taxman 574 and CIT v. J.H.
Gotla [1985] 156 ITR 323 /23 Taxman 14J (SC) counsel for the assessee
submitted that if a strict and literal construction of a statute leads to an
absurd result, that is, a result not intended to be sub-served by the object
of the legislation ascertained from the scheme of the legislation and if
another construction is possible apart from the strict and literal
construction, then, that construction should be preferred to strict literal
construction. 12. Referring to the provisions contained in the Code of Civil Procedure and books on accountancy, counsel for the assessee submitted that set
off of the claim/counter-claim otherwise than by account-payee cheque
or bank draft are legally permissible in commercial transactions as also
in the accounting practice. Therefore, it must be held that genuine
transactions like the transaction in the present case involving repayment
of loan through journal entries do not violate Section 269T of the Act.
In any event, it is contended that having regard to the commercial
dealings between the parties it must be held that there was reasonable
cause for repaying the loan through journal entries and in view of Section 273B of the Act penalty was not imposable under Section 271E of the Act. In support of the above contention, reliance was placed on
the decision of the Delhi high Court in the case of CIT v. Noida Toll
Bridge Co. Ltd. [2003] 262 ITR 260/[2004] 139 Taxman 115 , decision of
the Gujarat High Court in the case of CIT v. Shree Ambica Flour Mills
Corpn. [2008] 6 DTR 169 and a decision of this Court in the case 8 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. of CIT v. Motta Constructions (P .) Ltd. [2011] 338 ITR
66 /[2012] 20 taxmann.com 574. 13. We have carefully considered the rival submissions. 14. The basic question to be considered in this appeal is, whether
repayment of loan of Rs. 4,28,99,325/- by making journal entries in the
books of account maintained by the assessee is in contravention of Section 269T of the Act, and, if so, for failure to comply with the
provisions of Section 269T , the assessee is liable for penalty under Section 271E of the Act. 15. Section 269T , Section 271E and Section 273B of the Act, to the
extent relevant for the present case relating to AY 2003-2004 read thus
:- 271E.- (1) If a person repays any loan or deposit referred to in Section
269T otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of that section,
he shall be liable to pay, by way of penalty, a sum equal to the amount
of the loan or deposit so repaid. (2) Any penalty imposable under sub-section (1) shall be imposed by
the Joint Commissioner." ** ** **
"Penalty not to be imposed in certain cases. 273B.- Notwithstanding anything contained in the provisions of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 271 , section 271A , section 271AA , section 271B , section 271BA , section 271BB , section 271C , section
271D , section 271E , section 271F , section 271G , clause (c) or clause (d) of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 272A , sub-section (1)
of section 272AA or section 272B or sub-section (1) of section 272BB or sub-section (1) of section 272BBB or clause (b) of sub-section (1) or
clause (b) or clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 273 , no penalty
shall be imposable on the person or the assessee, as the case may be, for
any failure referred to in the said provisions if he proves that there was
reasonable clause for the said failure." 16. Chapter XXB containing Sections 269SS to Section 269TT were
introduced by the Income Tax (Second Amendment) Act 1981 with
effect from 11th July 1981 with a view to counter the evasion of tax.
The object of the provisions contained in Chapter XXB of the Act as
explained by the CBDT in its circular No.345 dated 28th June 1982 is
that the proliferation of black money poses a serious threat to the
national economy and to counter that major economic evil, Chapter
XXB has been introduced. 17. Section 269T in Chapter XXB of the Act , as introduced originally in
the year 1981 provides that none of the entities specified therein (which
includes a Company like the assessee) shall repay any deposit made
with it otherwise than by an account payee cheque/bank draft drawn in
the name of the person who had made the deposit, if the amount of the
deposit together with the interest, if any, payable thereon, exceeds the
amount specified therein. The obligation to repay the deposit by
account payee cheque/bank draft for the entities specified in Section
269T would have to be construed as mandatory in view of the negative
language used in the Section. Section 269T provides that none of the
entities specified therein shall repay deposit otherwise than by the
modes set out therein. In other words, the Section provides that
irrespective of the fact that there are several modes for repaying the
deposit, the entities specified in Section 269T shall repay the deposit
only by the modes set out therein. The mandatory requirement of Section 269T is further fortified by Section 276E inserted along with Section 269T on 11th July 1981 which provides that if a person referred
to in Section 269T of the Act repays any deposit in contravention of Section 269T then such person shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a period upto two years and also liable to fine equal to the amount of 10 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. deposit. Thus, the negative language used in Section 269T as also the
penal consequences provided in Section 276E for non-compliance of
the procedure prescribed under Section 269T leave no manner of doubt
that repayment of deposit in the manner prescribed under Section 269T is mandatory. 18. With effect from 1st April 1989, Section 276E dealing with the
consequences on failure to comply with Section 269T has been omitted
and Section 271E has been inserted which provides penalty for failure
to comply with Section 269T of the Act. Section 269T has been
substituted by Finance Act 2002 with effect from 1st June 2002 wherein
the provision relating to repayment of deposit exceeding the prescribed
limit by account payee cheque/draft has been extended to repayment of
loans as well. Thus, with effect from 1st June 2002, it is mandatory
under Section 269T of the Act for the persons specified therein to repay
any loan/deposit together with interest, if any, exceeding the limits
prescribed therein, by account payee cheque/bank draft and failure to do
so is made liable for penalty under Section 271E of the Act. 19. In the present case, it is not in dispute that the assessee has repaid
loan/deposit by debiting the account through journal entries. The
question is, whether such repayment of loan/deposit is in contravention
of the modes of repayment set out in Section 269T ? The argument
advanced by the counsel for the assessee that the bonafide transaction
of repayment of loan/deposit by way of adjustment through book entries
carried out in the ordinary course of business would not come within
the mischief of Section 269T cannot be accepted, because, the section
does not make any distinction between the bonafide and non-bonafide
transactions and requires the entities specified therein not to make
repayment of any loan/deposit together with the interest, if any
otherwise than by an account payee cheque/bank draft if the amount of
loan/deposit with interest if any exceeds the limits prescribed therein.
Similarly, the argument that only in cases where any loan or deposit is
repaid by an outflow of funds, Section 269T provides for repayment by
an account payee cheque/draft cannot be accepted because Section
269T neither refers to the repayment of loan/deposit by outflow of
funds nor refers any of other permissible modes of repayment of
loan/deposit, but merely puts an embargo on repayment of loan/deposit
except by the modes specified therein. Therefore, in the present case,
where loan/deposit has been repaid by debiting the account through
journal entries, it must be held that the assessee has contravened the
provisions of Section 269T of the Act. 20. Strong reliance was placed by the counsel for the assessee on the
decision of the Apex Court in the case of J.B. Boda & Co. (P.) Ltd. ( supra). In that case, J.B. Boda & Co. (P.) Ltd. (supra) carrying on
business as reinsurance brokers were during the course of business
required to remit the entire reinsurance premium payable to the foreign
reinsurers in foreign currency and then receive commission in foreign
currency from the said foreign insure Rs. Instead of remitting the entire
amount to the foreign reinsurers and then receiving commission from
the said foreign insurers, J B Boda & Company with the approval of the 11 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. Reserve Bank of India retained the foreign currency to the extent of the
commission and remitted the balance amount to the foreign reinsure Rs.
As deduction under Section 80-O of the Act in respect of the amount
retained as commission was denied by the income tax authorities as also
the High Court, the Company approached the Apex Court and the Apex
Court held that to insist on a formal remittance to the foreign reinsurers
first and thereafter to receive the commission from the foreign reinsurer
would be an empty formality and a meaningless ritual on the facts of
that case. Accordingly, the Apex Court held that the Company was
entitled to 80-O deduction in respect of the commission retained by the
Company. In our opinion, the aforesaid decision of the Apex Court has
no relevance to the facts of the present case, because, Section 80-O and Section 269T operate in completely different fields. The object of Section 80-O is to encourage Indian Companies to develop technical
knowhow and make it available to foreign companies and foreign
enterprises so as to augment the foreign exchange earnings, where as,
the object of Section 269T in Chapter XXB of the Act is to counteract
evasion of tax. For Section 80-O , receiving income in convertible
foreign exchange is the basic requirement, where as, for Section 269T ,
compliance of the conditions set out therein is the basic requirement. Section 80-O does not prescribe any particular mode for receiving the
convertible foreign exchange, where as, Section 269T bars repayment
of loan or deposit by any mode other than the mode stipulated under
that Section and for contravention of Section 269T penalty is imposable
under Section 271E of the Act. In these circumstances, the decision of
the Apex Court rendered in the context of Section 80-O cannot be
applied while interpreting the provisions of Section 269T of the Act. 21. It is relevant to note that with a view to mitigate the hardship that
may be caused to the genuine business transactions on account of the
bar imposed under Section 269T and the penalty imposable under Section 271E , the legislature, by the Taxation Laws (Amendment &
Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1986 has introduced Section 273B with
effect from 10th September 1986. Section 273B interalia provides that
notwithstanding anything contained in Section 271E , no penalty shall
be imposed on the person or the assessee as the case may be for any
failure referred to in the said Section, if such person or assessee proves
that there was reasonable cause for such failure. Thus, reading Section
269T , 271E and 273B together it becomes clear that : M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. 22. The argument advanced on behalf of the assessee that if Section
269T is construed literally, it would lead to absurdity cannot be
accepted, because, repayment of loan/deposit by account payee
cheque/bank draft is the most common mode of repaying the
loan/deposit and making such common method as mandatory does not
lead to any absurdity. No doubt, that in some cases genuine business
constraints may necessitate repayment of loan/deposit by a mode other
than the mode prescribed under Section 269T . To cater to the needs of
such exigencies, the legislature has enacted Section 273B which
provides that no penalty under Section 271E shall be imposed for
contravention of Section 269T if reasonable cause for such
contravention is shown. 23. The expression 'reasonable cause' used in Section 273B is not
defined under the Act. Unlike the expression 'sufficient cause' used in Section 249(3) , 253(5) and 260A(2A) of the Act, the legislature has
used the expression 'reasonable cause' in Section 273B of the Act. A
cause which is reasonable may not be a sufficient cause. Thus, the
expression 'reasonable cause' would have wider connotation than the
expression 'sufficient cause'. Therefore, the expression 'reasonable
cause' in Section 273B for non-imposition of penalty under Section
271E would have to be construed liberally depending upon the facts of
each case. 24. In the present case, the cause shown by the assessee for repayment
of the loan/deposit otherwise than by account-payee cheque/bank draft
was on account of the fact that the assessee was liable to receive
amount towards the sale price of the shares sold by the assessee to the
person from whom loan/deposit was received by the assessee. It would
have been an empty formality to repay the loan/deposit amount by
account-payee cheque/draft and receive back almost the same amount
towards the sale price of the shares. Neither the genuineness of the
receipt of loan/deposit nor the transaction of repayment of loan by way
of adjustment through book entries carried out in the ordinary course of
business has been doubted in the regular assessment. There is nothing
on record to suggest that the amounts advanced by Investment Trust of
India to the assessee represented the unaccounted money of the
Investment Trust of India or the assessee. The fact that the assessee
company belongs to the Ketan Parekh Group which is involved in the
securities scam cannot be a ground for sustaining penalty imposed
under Section 271E of the Act if reasonable cause is shown by the
assessee for failing to comply with the provisions of Section 269T . It is
not in dispute that settling the claims by making journal entries in the
respective books is also one of the recognized modes of repaying
loan/deposit. Therefore, in the facts of the present case, in our opinion,
though the assessee has violated the provisions of Section 269T , the
assessee has shown reasonable cause and, therefore, the decision of the
Tribunal to delete the penalty imposed under Section 271E of the Act
deserves acceptance. 25. In the result, we hold that the Tribunal was not justified in holding
that repayment of loan/deposit through journal entries did not violate 13 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. the provisions of Section 269T of the Act. However, in the absence of
 any finding recorded in the assessment order or in the penalty order to
 the effect that the repayment of loan/deposit was not a bonafide
 transaction and was made with a view to evade tax, we hold that the
 cause shown by the assessee was a reasonable cause and, therefore, in
 view of Section 273B of the Act, no penalty under Section 271E could
 be imposed for contravening the provisions of Section 269T of the Act. 26. The appeal is disposed of in the above terms with no order as to
 costs." 2.3. Another decision relied upon by Ld. CIT-DR is

from Bombay Tribunal in the case of Lodha Builders Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. vs ACIT (ITA No.475 to 481/Mum/2014 , etc),

order dated 27/06/2014, wherein, on identical issue, the

appeals of the assessee were allowed. The aforesaid order

dated 27/06/2014 of the Tribunal is reproduced

hereunder:- 2. This appeal ITA No.476/M/2014 filed by the assessee on
 21.1.2014 is in connection with penalty levied u/s 271D of the
 Act and the effective grounds raised in the appeal read as under: M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. 2.1 In another appeal ITA No.481/M/2014 involving the penalty u/s 271E , the assessee raised identical grounds. 3. During the proceedings before us, assessee filed an additional
ground on 23.4.2014 identical to all the appeals and the same
reads as under: 4. Briefly stated relevant facts of the case are that the assessee
who belongs to the Lodha group of cases, is engaged in the
business of land development and construction of real estate
properties. Assessee filed the return of income declaring the total
income at Rs. NIL and the same was subsequently revised to
adjust carry forward losses. Assessment was completed
determining the total income of Rs. 26,69,084/- under the special
provisions of section 115JB of the Act. In the scrutiny
assessment, there is a solitary and minor addition made by the AO u/s 14A of the Act. There is no further appeal against the said
order of the AO before the CIT (A). Thus, the assessment reached
finality. In the assessment, vide para 6, the AO, otherwise,
mentioned about "Accepting / repayment of loans other than
account payee cheques / draft". Eventually, AO mentioned that
such accepting / repayment of loans other than account payee
cheques / drafts (through journal entries) amounts to violation of
the provisions of section 269SS and 269T of the Act.
Subsequently, for imposing the penalty proceedings, AO made a
reference to the Addl. CIT for necessary action. The contents of
para 6 is extracted as under: The assessee was asked why the loans were accepted / repaid
other than by account payee cheque / draft. In response to this,
asessee informed that these loans / transactions are made with the
sister concerns only and there is no cash transaction involved.
The contention of the assessee is not acceptable as the assesse is
not falling under these exempt categorically, where loan or
deposit can be accepted / repaid other than by account payee
cheques /draft. Hence, by not accepting the loan / deposit by
account payee cheque / draft, the assessee has violated the 16 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. provisions of section 269SS and 269T of the IT Act. Regarding
 initiation of penalty proceedings u/s 271D & 271E of the IT Act,
 the matter is being referred to Addl. CIT, CR-6, Mumbai for
 necessary action." 5. From the above, it is evident that the AO show caused the
 assessee proposing to levy penalty u/s 271D / 271E and in reply,
 the assessee explained to the AO. The contention of the assessee
 was rejected and eventually held that the assessee violated the
 provisions of section 269SS and 269T of the Income tax Act. It
 contains the decision of the AO to make a reference to the Addl.
 CIT, CR-6,Mumbai vide letter dated 11.1.2012 for initiation of
 penalty proceedings. He intimated that the assessee accepted
 loans from various sister concerns through journal entries which
 amounts to other than account payee cheques / drafts and
 informed that assessee violated the provisions of section
 269SS and 269T of the Act. The amount of such loans accepted
 from the sister concerns amounts to Rs. 495,23,61,634/-. The
 details of names of the loan lenders, JV through and the amount
 accepted through JV are tabulated as under: The journal entries were also passed in the books of accounts for
reimbursement of expenses and for sharing of the expenses within the
group. In such cases, the provisions of section 269SS of the Act have
no application and for this, the assesse relied on the judgment of the
Hon‟ble Madras High Court in the case of CIT vs. Idhayam
Publications Ltd [2007] 163 Taxman 265 (Mad.) which is relevant for
the proposition that the deposit and the withdrawal of the money from
the current account could not be considered as a loan or advance. It is
the contention of the assessee that there is no cash transactions
involved and relied on the contents of the CBDT Circular No.387,
dated 6th July, 1984 and mentioned that the purpose of
introducing section 269SS of the Act is to curb cash transactions only
and the same is not aimed at transfer of money by transfer /
assignment of loans of other group companies. In this regard, Ld
Counsel cited various decisions mentioned in para 7.4 of the
impugned order. It is the submission of the assessee that the said
provisions of section 269SS of the Act do not apply to "journal
entries". To substantiate the reasonable cause as to why journal entries
were resorted to, the assessee made the following submissions. 7. On considering the above submissions of the assessee, Addl. CIT
examined the provisions of section 269SS / T of the Act , as the case
may be, and discussed certain judgments including the binding
judgment of the Hon‟ble Bombay High Court in the case of Triumph
International (I) Ltd, dated 12th June, 2012 reported in 22
taxmann.com 138. Further, he reproduced the contents of the said
judgment of the Hon‟ble High Court (supra) which is relevant for the
proposition that where the loan / deposit were repaid by debiting the
amount through journal entries, it must be held that the assessee has
contravened the relevant provisions. Though the said judgment was
delivered in the context of provisions of section 269T of the Act, the
same was equally adopted for the provisions of section 269SS of the
Act. Addl. CIT discussed on the irrelevance of the genuineness of the
transactions in these matters of impugned penalty proceedings. He
also examined the aspects of the bona fide and genuineness of the
transactions before concluding that the assessee failed to establish the
genuineness of transactions carried out. Addl. CIT further mentioned
that even bona fide and genuineness of the transactions, if carried out
in violation of provisions of section 269SS of the Act, the same would
attract the provisions of section 271D of the Act. There was a
discussion on the applicability of the decision of the Tribunal in the
case of Mahak Sing vs. ITO (ITAT, Del) 127 ITD 1 relating to the
mens rea issues. Eventually, the Addl. CIT levied the penalty of Rs.
495,23,61,634/- u/s 269SS of the Act within the meaning of section
271D of the Act. Further, depending on the nature of credit, journal
entries are summarized into 6 categories, namely (i) assignment of
debit balance to a group company (4.75 Crs); (ii) lender assigns debt
to group company (Rs. 93.47 Crs); (iii) assigning of group debt to an
independent company (Rs. 374.92 Crs); (iv) Directors / family 20 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. account transfers (Rs. 2.81 Crs); (v) payment / receipt on behalf of
group company (Rs. 19.19 Crs) and (vi) miscellaneous (Rs. 0.10 Crs).
Addl CIT passed similar penalty order u/s 271D in respect of other
group concerns namely M/s. Lodha Properties Development Pvt Ltd
(Rs. 30,11,30,396/-); M/s. Adhinath Builders Pvt Ltd (Rs.
32,81,39,868/-); M/s. Ajitnath Hi-tech Builders Pvt Ltd (Rs.
81,75,244/- ); M/s. Aasthavinaya Real Estate Pvt Ltd (Rs. 61,50,900/-
); M/s. Ajitnath Hi-tech Builders Pvt Ltd and M/s. Infratech Builders
and Agro Pvt Ltd (Rs. 36,67,81,854/-). Aggrieved with the same,
assessee filed an appeal before the CIT (A). Before the CIT(A): 8. During the first appellate proceedings, CIT (A)-38, Mumbai passed
a combined order on 31.12.2013 confirming the penalties levied by
the Addl. CIT in all the above referred cases. It is the conclusion of
the CIT (A) that the assessee failed to establish the reasonable cause
as required u/s 273B of the Act. Concluding para of the said CIT
(A)‟s order reads as under: "9.37. Considering all the above facts, it is clear that the appellant
failed to establish "reasonable cause" as required u/s 273B of the Act
accordingly, the penalties levied amounting to Rs. 495,23,61,634/-;
Rs. 39,11,30,396/-; Rs. 32,81,39,868/-; Rs. 61,50,900/-; Rs.
81,75,244/- and Rs. 36,67,81,854/- in the cases of M/s. Lodha
Builders Pvt Ltd., M/s. Lodha Properties Development Pvt Ltd., M/s.
Adinath Builders Pvt Ltd., M/s. Aasthavinaya Real Estate Pvt Ltd.,
M/s. Ajitnath Hi-tech Builders Pvt Ltd and M/s. Infratech Buildes and
Agro Pvt Ltd respectively are hereby confirmed." 9. During the proceedings before the first appellate authority, assessee
filed written submissions common to all appeals of the group.
Referring to the judgment of the Hon‟ble High Court in the case of Triumph International (I) Ltd (supra), assessee submitted that the
commercial expediency of the group concerns is held to be acceptable
reason for squiring up/swapping of the transactions by passing the
journal entries and therefore, it constitutes a „reasonable cause‟ in the
instant case too. For this, assessee relied on the judgment in the case
of Sun Engineering works Pvt Ltd 198 ITR 297 and others. It is the
case of the assessee that the Hon‟ble High Court of Bombay
eventually deleted the penalty on the ground of „reasonable cause‟
and therefore, on appreciating the „principles of commercial
expediency‟ here in this case, the AO/ Addl. CIT should not have
imposed the penalty. CIT (A) extracted the written submissions on the
„reasonable cause‟ vide the letters dated 15.4.2013 and 3.5.2013.
Further, on these submissions, CIT (A) called for remand report of the
AO vide letter dated 10.5.2013 and considered the remand report of
the Addl. CIT dated 31.10.2013 before confirming the penalty. M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. Further, CIT (A) discussed the factual matrix of the transactions
involved among the group concerns in the light of the provisions
of section 269SS as well as 271D of the Act. Para 9 of the impugned
order contains the decision of the CIT (A), wherein, he dealt with the
remand report, provisions of section 46A of the IT Rules, 1962. CIT
(A) is of the opinion that the journal entries constitute contravention
of provisions of section 269SS of the Act and therefore, such
contravention attracts the provisions of section 271D of the Act. He
relied heavily on the judgment of the jurisdictional High Court in the
case of Triumph International (I) Ltd (supra). The contents of para 9.4
to 9.9 of the CIT (A)‟s order are relevant here. Further, CIT (A) held
that genuineness of the transactions is no excuse for avoiding the
provisions of these sections. Relevant paras of the said judgment of
Bombay High Court were extracted in para 9.13 of the impugned
order. Assessee detailed the reasonable cause for each of the
transactions as evident from para 9.16 of the impugned order.
However, the same were not considered as reasonable causes by the
CIT (A). CIT (A) referred to the judgment of the Hon‟ble Rajasthan
High Court in the case of Madhan Lal Mahaveer Prasad (296 ITR 377) to support his case. In any case, this is not the case where the
journal entries were held as contravention to the provisions of section
269SS of the Act. As seen from para 9.26, the CIT (A) mentioned that
there was a limited journal entries in the case of M/s. Triumph
International Finance (I) Ltd (supra) and the reasons of swapping
between the debtors and creditors by passing journal entry was seen as
reasonable cause by the High Court. CIT (A) discussed various
decisions of the Tribunal but most of them do not involve the fact of
involving the journal entries unlike the present case and also in the
case of M/s. Triumph International Finance (I) Ltd (supra).
Eventually, CIT (A) confirmed the penalties as mentioned above. 10. On Limitation of Time: During the proceedings before the CIT
(A), there was also an issue relating to „limitation‟ u/s 275 of the Act.
It is the submission of the assessee that the present orders being
penalty in nature, which are unconnected with the assessment of
income which are covered by the clause (a) of section 275(1) of the
Act, the provisions of clause (c) of section 275(1) of the Act are
relevant. Considering the date of initiation of the penalty proceedings
during the very assessment itself (assessment dated 5.12.2011) (para 6
extracted above), the penalty order passed by the Addl. CIT on
28.9.2012 is barred by limitation of time. Assessee relied on the
judgment of the Rajasthan High Court in the case of Jitendra Singh
Rathore [352 ITR 327] (Raj). However, CIT (A) did not considered the said judgment of the Hon‟ble High Court. Instead, he relied on the
decision of ITAT, Chandigarh Special Bench in the case of Dewan
Chand Amit Lal [283 ITR (AT) 203]. In the said judgment , the
Special Bench held that the „limitation‟ does not commence from the
date of the show cause notice issued by the Assessing Officer as Joint 22 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. Commissioner is the empowered to impose the penalty. CIT (A)
discussed the ratio of the said Rajasthan High Court judgment in the
case of Jitendra Singh Rathore (supra) and extracted its conclusion
that the period of limitation should be reckoned from the date of issue
of notice from the AO and not from the date of issue of show cause
notice by the Joint Commissioner. Without analyzing the
distinguished features of the said judgment of the Rajasthan High
Court, substantially, the CIT (A) followed the said Special Bench
decision (supra). CIT (A) is of the opinion that the Special Bench
decision of the Tribunal has more binding effect than that of the non-
jurisdictional High Court judgment. Para 9.34 and 9.35 of the CIT
(A)‟s order are relevant here. Essentially, for dismissing the
assessee‟s legal issue on the limitation of time, CIT (A) relied on the
said order of the Special Bench in the case of Dewan Chand Amit Lal
(supra) and held that the penalty proceedings are not barred by the
limitation of time as the show cause notice issued by the Addl. CIT
dated 15.2.2012 and the due date after considering the extended time u/s 129 of the Act is 30.9.2012. Since, the Addl. CIT passed order on
28.9.2012, the impugned orders of the penalty are valid. Accordingly,
the CIT(A) dismissed the legal issue. In any case, it is not the case of
the CIT (A) that the provisions of section 275(1)(a) of the Act apply to
the facts of the present case. Aggrieved with the above conclusions on
both the legal as well as on merits, the assessee is in appeal before the
Tribunal in all the cases under consideration. Before the ITAT: M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. 14. Referring to the facts of the present case, Ld Counsel mentioned
that the said „action‟ has begun with the first show cause notice
issued by the AO in the assessment proceedings (para 6 of the
assessment order). Accordingly, the AO has heard the assessee at
length on this issue of violation of the provisions of section
269SS and 269T , as the case may be, and the assessee vehemently
contested the AO‟s proposals in the matter. Rejecting the assessee‟s
explanation, AO formed an opinion in the matter against the assessee
and eventually, AO made a referral to the Addl CIT, who is the
authority empowered to impose the penalty under the statute. Ld
Counsel submitted that the provisions of relevant sections of the Act
do not provide on who is empowered to initiate such penalty
proceedings. However, it only provides for who is empowered to
impose penalty. In this regard, Ld Counsel relied on various decisions
to strengthen his legal proposition. Further, he mentioned that the
show cause notice first issued by the Assessing Officer is valid in such
matters and filed copies of judgments of the Hon‟ble High Courts of
Delhi and Rajasthan. He also mentioned that the Special Bench
decision in the case of Dewan Chand Amit Lal (supra) is not a binding
judgment considering the existence of judgments of various High
Courts i.e., CIT vs. Hissaria Bros [2007] 291 ITR 244 (Raj) which
upheld the order of the Tribunal, wherein the penalty show cause
notice, which was issued by the AO, is found valid for the purpose of
computing the time limitation u/s 275(1)(c) of the Act. It is also
mentioned that the judgment of the Hon‟ble Rajasthan High Court in
the case of Hissaria Bros (supra) was subsequently followed by the
same High Court in the case of CIT vs. Jitendra Singh Rathore [2013]
352 ITR 327 (Raj). It is the contention of the assessee that an identical
decision was taken by the Delhi High Court in the case of Noida Toll
Bridge Co. Ltd (supra). It is the contention of the assessee that in the
instant case, assessment orders were passed on Nov / Dec. 2011 and
therefore, the penalty would be time barred in May / June, 2012, as
the case may be, whereas the penalty orders passed by the Addl. CIT
on 28.9.2012. Referring to the contention of the CIT (A), who held
that Special Bench decision in the case of Dewan Chand Amit
Lal (supra) has a precedent over the non-jurisdictional High Court
judgment, the Ld Counsel mentioned that prima facie, the said
propositions are erroneous and consequently, the judgments from any
hon‟ble High Court has more precedent value over a Special Bench
decision of the Tribunal. 15. Per contra, on this legal issue, it is the contention of Ld Sri Girija
Dayal, CIT- DR that the impugned penalty orders of the AO and the
CIT(A) need to be confirmed. Accordingly to him the provisions of
clause (a) to section 275(1) apply to the present case and in that case,
the orders are very much valid legally as there is no expiry of
limitation of time. Further, he mentioned that the time limitation
commences from the date of issue of show cause notice by the Addl. M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. CIT, who has an authority to impose the penalty and not from the date
of the SC notice of the AO or his order of the assessment, which
contains the proposal to make a reference to the Addl. CIT for
imposing the penalty. If the provisions of clause (a) are applied and
the date of show cause notice issued by the Addl. CIT is considered,
the penalty orders dated 28.9.2012 are very much in time and
therefore, they are valid. However, in such case, Ld DR could not
demonstrate the circumstances where the provisions of clause (c)
of section 275(1) of the Act, can be invoked. It is thus summed up by
the assessee‟s counsel that if the penalty matters are covered by the
provisions of clause (a) of the said section, the provisions of clause (c)
become redundant and vestigial. Legal Issue -Limitation of time - Finding of the Tribunal 16. We have heard both the parties on the legal issues raised in the
Additional Ground i.e., applicability of the provisions of clause (c)
to section 275(1) of the Act to the impugned penalties and the manner
of computing the limitation of time provided in the said clause. To
decide the above issues, in our opinion, the provisions of section
275 of the Act are required to analysed. The same read as under: of the month in which action for imposition of penalty is initiated,
whichever period expires later." 17. The said provisions are explained by various Honble High courts
and Tribunal. To start with, Honble High Court of Rajasthan in the
case of CIT vs. Hissaria Bros (supra) explained the said provisions
vide the para 21 to 27 of the said judgment and the same are produced
as under: By dividing into three categories the period of limitation for cases
falling under category (i), i.e., clause (1)(a) is the financial year in which the proceedings, in
the course of which action for the imposition of penalty has been
initiated, are completed or six months from the end of the month in
which the order of the Dy. CIT(A) or the CIT(A) or, as the case may
be, the Tribunal is received by the Chief CIT or CIT, whichever period
expires later. 22. The period of limitation for the cases falling under category II is
six months from the end of the month in which such order on revision
is passed and the period of limitation for the cases falling under the
above category III is the financial year in which the proceedings, in
the course of which action for the imposition of penalty has been
initiated, are completed, or six months from the end of the month in
which action for imposition of penalty is initiated, whichever period
expires later. In the last category, filing of appeal in respect of order
passed in proceedings during which penalty proceedings were
initiated is not relevant. M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. To this effect, a Circular No. 551, dated 23-1-1990 [(1990) 82 CTR
(St.) 325] and another Circular No. 554, dated 13-2-1990 [(1990) 82
CTR (St.) 280] were issued by the CBDT. 23. A close scrutiny of section 275 which is reproduced hereinabove
shows that clause (1)(a) covers those cases where the penalty
proceedings are in respect of a default related to principal assessment
for a particular assessment year and the penalty proceedings are
required to be initiated in the course of that proceedings only. In such
cases where the relevant assessment order or other orders are the
subject-matter of an appeal to the CIT(A) under section 246 or an
appeal to the Tribunal under section 253 , after the expiry of the
financial year in which the proceedings in the course of which action
for the imposition of penalty has been initiated, are completed, or six
months from the end of the month in which the order of CIT(A) or, as
the case may be, of the Tribunal is received by the Chief CIT or CIT,
whichever period expires later. Apparently, clause (a) governs the
categories which are integrally related to the assessment proceedings
and are not independent of it. 24. We have also noticed that this provision was brought into effect in
1970 with effect from 1-4-1971, so that proceedings may not require
rectification or modification depending on the outcome of the appeal
against the orders passed in the relevant assessment proceedings or
the other proceedings in the course of which the penalty proceedings
are required to be initiated. 25. We have also noticed that sections 271 and 273 were the two
original penalty provisions, which require the penalty proceedings to
be initiated during the course of relevant assessment proceedings or
the other relevant proceedings, as the case may be. The penalty
proceedings could also be initiated during the appellate proceedings
arising out of the relevant assessment proceedings. It is only where
the assessment proceedings are independent and not directly linked to
the assessment proceedings that the result of such proceedings in the
course of which the penalty proceedings were initiated does not affect
the levy of penalty. On such penalty proceedings, independent of the
assessment proceedings, clause (c) has been made applicable. In this
category, the period of limitation for completing the penalty
proceedings is linked with the initiation of the penalty proceedings
itself. M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. In such cases, the penalty proceedings can be initiated independent of
any proceedings but obviously, the penalty proceedings can be
initiated only when the default is brought to the notice of the
concerned authority which may be during the course of any
proceedings and, therefore, for this type of cases where the penalty
proceedings have been initiated in connection with the defaults for
which no statutory mandate is there about any particular proceedings
during the course of which only such penalty proceedings can be
initiated, a different period of limitation has been prescribed under
clause (c) as a separate category. In cases falling under clause (c),
penalty proceedings are to be completed within six months from the
end of the month in which the proceedings during which the action for
imposition of penalty is initiated, are completed, or six months from
the end of the month in which action for imposition of penalty is
initiated, whichever period expires later. There is no provision under
clause (c) for the extended period of limitation commensurating with
completion of the appellate proceedings, if any, arising from the
proceedings during the course of which such penalty proceedings are
initiated as in the case where the penalty proceedings are linked with
the assessment proceedings or the other relevant proceedings. 26. The expression „other relevant thing' used in section
275(1)(a) and clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 275 is
significantly missing from clause (c) of section 275(1) to make out this
distinction very clear. 27. We are, therefore, of the opinion that since penalty proceedings
for default in not having transactions through the bank as required
under sections 269SS and 269T are not related to the assessment
proceedings but are independent of it, therefore, the completion of
appellate proceedings arising out of the assessment proceedings or
the other proceedings during which the penalty proceedings
under sections 271D and 271E may have been initiated has no
relevance for sustaining or not sustaining the penalty proceedings
and, therefore, clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 275cannot be
attracted to such proceedings. If that were not so, clause (c) of section
275(1) would be redundant because otherwise, as a matter of fact
every penalty proceeding is usually initiated when during some
proceedings such default is noticed, though the final fact finding in
this proceeding may not have any bearing on the issues relating to
establishing default, e.g., penalty for not deducting tax at source while
making payment to employees, or contractor, or for that matter not 29 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. making payment through cheque or demand draft where it is so
required to be made. Either of the contingencies does not affect the
computation of taxable income and levy of correct tax on chargeable
income; if clause (a) was to be invoked, no necessity of clause (c)
would arise." 18. Similar interpretations were taken by the ITAT, Rajkot Bench
(Third Member) in the case of ACIT vs. Dipak Kantilal Takvani [2013] 39 taxmann.com 53 (Rajkot - Trib.) (TM) and the penalty
orders u/s 271D and 271E of the Act, being unconnected to the
income of the assessee, are to be considered as per the provisions of
clause (c) of section 275(1) of the Act. The said Rajkot Bench of
ITAT has followed the judgment of the Rajasthan High Court in the
case of Jitendra Singh Rathore (supra). In this case, the Hon‟ble High
Court also observed that the first show cause notice for levy of penalty
was issued by the AO though the authority obtained to initiate penalty
proceedings has also subsequently issued a show cause notice as well.
Hon‟ble High Court held that the penalty proceedings were initiated
by issue of first notice from the AO and not from the date of issue of
notice by the JCIT and thus, the penalty order passed after expiry of 6
months from the end of the month in which the action for imposition
of penalty initiated was barred by limitation. The said decision of the
ITAT in the case of Dewan Chand Amit Lal (supra) deferred at the
relevant point of time that the order of the Tribunal in the case of Hissaria Bros (supra). However, it is a fact that the said decision of the
Tribunal in the case of Hissaria Bros (supra) was subsequently upheld
by the Hon‟ble Rajasthan High Court. Therefore, considering the
principle of precedence, it is necessary for the Tribunal to follow the
order of the High Court where there is no contrary judgment from the
jurisdictional High Court. As stated earlier , the said judgment from
the Rajasthan High Court was also followed in the case of Jitendra
Singh Rathore (supra). Therefore, in a case where the AO made a
reference in the assessment order about the requirement of initiating
the penalty proceedings and acted by making a reference to the JCIT,
who is actually empowered by the statute to impose the penalty u/s
271D and 271E of the Act, the limitation should be counted right from
the date of such reference in the assessment order / issue of show
cause notice by the AO. 19. Further, the judgment of Honble Delhi High Court in the case of
M/s Noida Toll Bridge Co. Ltd [262 ITR 260] (Del) is relevant. We
have also come across another judgment of the same High court in the 30 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. case of CIT vs. Worldwide Township Projects Ltd vide ITA
No.232/2014, where Honble Delhi High Court explained the above
said provisions in the context of penalty levied u/s 271D of the Act.
Para 8 of the said judgment of the High Court is relevant here and the
same reads as under: 20. Thus, the judgment in the case of M/s Worldwide Township
Projects Ltd vide ITA No.232/2014 is relevant for the proposition that
the provisions of section 275(1)(a) of the Act would not be applicable
to the penalties u/s 271D of the Act and the provisions of section
275(1)(c) would only be attracted. This is also relevant for another
ratio that the period will be counted from the date of assessment order
where the Assessing Officer decided to make a referral to the Addl.
CIT. 21. On this aspect, following the said judgment , the Delhi Bench of
the Tribunal in the case of Dinesh Jain ITA no 3794/Del/2013 held
that it is the AO who applies mind during the assessment proceedings
to the issues relating to the violation of section 269SS or 269 T of the
Act and therefore, the limitation should commence from the date of
the Assessment Order. On the facts of squiring up of the loans with
the wife by way of „journal entries‟, Tribunal held that such „journal
entries‟ are outside the scope of the relevant penal provisions. Thus, it
is the decision of the High Court/Tribunals that the provisions of
clause (a) of section 275(1) of the Act would not apply and in
alternative, the provisions of section 275(1)(c) only be attracted in the
matters of penalties levied u/s 271D / 271E of the Act. Further, it is
also held that the limitation period would be counted from the date of
assessment order with the AO's decision to make referral to his Addl
CIT, who is authorized to impose penalty. 22. In the instant case, it is an undisputed fact that the Assessing
Officer discussed the details as to the violation of the provisions
of section 269SS and 269T of the Act in the assessment order. It also
contains a reference to the requirement of making a reference to the
Addl. CIT, CR-6, Mumbai for necessary action. Para 6 of the 32 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. assessment order, which is already extracted above paras, bears
witness to the above findings. Further, to give effect to his findings in
the assessment order, the AO wrote a letter to the Addl. CIT on
11.1.2012, intimating to him about the violation to the said provisions
of the Act. On receipt of the said reference from the AO, Addl. CIT
issued a show cause notice on 15.2.2012 calling for explanation of the
assessee as to why the penalty u/s 271D should not be imposed in the
case of the assessee. Eventually, Addl. CIT passed a penalty order u/s
271D of the Income Tax Act on 28.9.2012. Considering the fact that
the assessment order is dated 5.12.2011 and as per the provisions of
clause © to section 275(1) of the Act, 6 months from the end of the
month in which the action was initiated expires on 30.6.2012. After
considering the explanation of limitation u/s 275(2) , Explanation 1
read with section 129 of the Act, extended limitation expires on
30.7.2012 against the above due dates, the penalty order passed by the
Addl. CIT on 28.9.2012, which is barred by the limitation. Thus, the
orders of the penalty of this kind have to be explained considering the
provisions of clause (c) of section 275(1) of the Act. Further, it is the
summary of the decision cited above that any case where AO made a
reference in the assessment order, after discussing the same with the
assessee during the regular assessment proceedings or made a referral
to the Addl. CIT for imposition of the penalty. In our opinion, these
preliminary acts constitute "action for the imposition of penalty". An
action for imposition of penalty is always anterior in time to the
"actual" imposition of penalty. In our opinion, the AO‟s discussion
given in para 6 of the assessment order and AO‟s letter dated 6 to the
Addl. CIT constitutes "action for imposition of penalty". Therefore,
we are of the opinion, the assessee should succeed on the legal issue.
Accordingly, ground raised by the assessee is allowed. Provisions of section 273B of the Act - Reasonable Cause 23. Now, we shall take up the applicability of provisions of section
273B of the Act qua the reasonable cause to be proved by the
assessee. The provisions of section 273B of the Act reads as under: 24. Brief facts of the present case are that the assessee belongs Lodha
group of cases and there are large number of transactions involving
the receipts and payments of loans and advances among the sister
concerns of the Lodha group settled by way of „journal entries‟.
During the assessment proceedings, AO asked the assessee to show
cause as to why loans were accepted / repaid other than by the account
payee cheque / draft. In this regard, assessee informed that the said
loans / advances were transacted with the sister concerns only by way
of „journal entries‟ and there is no cash transactions involved the
provisions of section 269SS and 269T have no application to the facts
of the case. Thus, it is the case of the assessee that the said
transactions with the sister concerns are for commercial reasons and
they should be kept outside the scope of the provisions of sections
269SS / 269T of the Act. During the penalty proceedings before the
Addl CIT, there was an inquiry into the reasons for violation of the
said provisions of the Act and the assessee explained the said reasons
(vide para 7.5 of the penalty order) which are already extracted above.
The Addl. CIT did not consider the „explanations‟ as the „reasonable
causes‟ and imposed the penalties in all the seven cases under
consideration. 25. During the first appellate proceedings also, assessee made a
detailed submission on various aspects of the reasonable causes which
were already discussed in the paras above. On perusal of the
impugned order, we find that CIT (A) relied heavily on the judgment
of the jurisdictional High Court in the case of Triumph International
(I) Ltd , supra dated 17.8.2012 for the proposition that the receiving
loans and repayments through „journal entries‟ constitutes „violation‟
within the meaning of provisions of section 269SS and 269T of the
Act. The contents of para 9 of the said judgment are relevant here
which read as under: 26. From the above, it is evident that the Hon‟ble High Court has
granted relief to the assessee on finding that there is no material to
suggest that the transactions in question are not reasonable or bona
fide. Of course, it is the finding of the Honble High court that the
impugned journal entries in that case do not escape the rigors of the
provisions of section 269SS / 269T of the Act. The CIT (A) did not
appreciate the „reasons‟ given by the assessee for receiving loans and
advances through „journal entries‟ as „reasonable causes‟. It is the
finding of Honble High court in the case of M/s Triumph International
Ltd supra, that „the transactions in question were undertaken not with
a view to receive loans / deposits in contravention of section
269SS but with a view to extinguish the mutual liability of paying /
receiving the amounts by the assessee and its sister concern to the
customers. In the absence of any material on record to suggest that the
transactions in question were not reasonable or bona fide and in view
of section 273B of the Act, we see no reason to interfere with the
order of the Tribunal in deleting the penalty..‟ He ignored the above
finding of the Court and confirmed the penalty levied by the Addl.
CIT. Aggrieved with the above decision of the CIT (A), the assessee
is in appeal before the Tribunal with the argument that the assessee‟s
reasons constitutes a reasonable cause. 27. During the proceedings before us, Ld Counsel for the assessee
summarized all the transactions involving all the sister concerns and
grouped the various transactions entered in the books of accounts by
way of journal entries into 7 categories. The details of these seven
groups are submitted as under: M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. b) These entries are with sister concerns and associates. The view
in the penalty order that Durgeshwari is an independent concern is
incorrect because penalty order itself starts with the sentence that
"Assesee has taken from sister concerns". c) It has been proved before the Addl. CIT and CIT (A) that there
is absolutely no cash involved and the source can be traced to A/c
payee cheques only. Addl. CIT has failed to refute this but only in
order to strengthen his case on flimsy ground he makes a
presumptive assertion that these entries has been passed to
camouflage the sources and to evade tax. d) There is no attempt either in assessment order or in order to
doubt the source of the entries and to take any consequential
action under relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act . So,
appellant‟s on source of entries being A/c payee cheque is
correct." 30. It is the submission of the assessee that the Hon‟ble High
Court has laid down the broad principles for determining the
„reasonable cause‟ within the meaning of section 273B of the
Act. The judgment in the case of Triumph International (I) Ltd
dated 12.6.2012 (this judgment is different from that of judgment
of Triumph International (I) Ltd dated 17.8.2012) and it explains
the guidelines for the expression "reasonable cause". 31. The contents of paras 23 and 24 of the said of judgment of the
Hon‟ble High Court in the case of Triumph International (I) Ltd,
dated 12.6.2012 reported in 345 ITR 370 (Bom) are relevant and
the same reads as under: 32. From the above extracts from the judgment of jurisdictional
High court, it is clear that the journal entries are hit by the
relevant provisions of section 269SS of the Act. However, it is the
finding of the Hon‟ble High court that completing the "empty
formalities" of payments and repayments by issuing/receiving
cheque to swap/squire up the transactions, is not the intention of
the provisions of section 269SS of the Act, when the transactions
are otherwise bonafide or genuine. Such reasons of the assessee
constitute „reasonable cause‟ within the meaning of section
273B of the Act. In the light of the above ratio of judgment, we
analyse the facts of the present case here as under. 33. We find that there is no finding of AO in the order of the AO
during the assessment proceedings that the impugned transactions
constitutes unaccounted money and are not bona fide or not
genuine. As such, there is no information or material before the 40 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. AO to suggest or demonstrate the same. In the language of the
Honble High court, „neither the genuineness of the receipt of
loan/deposit nor the transaction of repayment of loan by way of
adjustment through book entries carried out in the ordinary course
of business has been doubted in the regular assessment.
Admittedly, the transactions by way of journal entries are aimed
at the extinguishment of the mutual liabilities between the
assessees and the sister concerns of the group and such reasons
constitute a reasonable cause. 34. In the present case, the causes shown by the assessee for
receiving or repayment of the loan/deposit otherwise than by
account-payee cheque/bank draft, was on account of the
following, namely: alternate mode of raising funds; assignment of
receivables; squaring up transactions; operational
efficiencies/MIS purpose; consolidation of family member debts;
correction of errors; and loans taken in case. In our opinion, all
these reasons are, prima facie, commercial in nature and they
cannot be described as non-business by any means. Further, we
asked ourselves as to why should the assessee under consideration
take up issuing number of account payee cheques / bank drafts
which can be accounted by the journal entries. This being the
spirit of Hon‟ble High Court of Bombay, we adopt the same to
the present issue. As such, the same is binding on us. What is the
point in issuing hundreds of account payee cheques / account
payee bank drafts between the sister concerns of the group, when
transactions can be accounted in books using journal entries,
which is also an accepted mode of accounting? In our opinion, on
the factual matrix of these cases under consideration, journal
entries should enjoy equal immunity on par with account payee
cheques or bank drafts. Of course, the above conclusion apply so
long as the transactions are for business purposes and do not
involve unaccounted money and they are genuine. In fact, such
journal entries shall save large number of cheque books for the
banks. 35. Further, There is no dispute that the impugned journal entries
in the respective books were done with the view to raise funds
from the sister concerns, to assign the receivable among the sister
concerns, to adjust or transfer the balances, to consolidate the
debts, to correct the clerical errors etc. In the language of the
Hon‟ble High court, the said „journal entries‟ constitutes one of 41 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. the recognized modes of recording the loan/deposit. The
commercial nature and occurrence of these transactions by way of
journal entries is in the normal course of business operation of the
group concerns. In this regard, there is no adverse finding by the
AO in the regular assessment. AO has not made out in the
assessment that any of the impugned transactions is aimed at non
commercial reasons and outside the normal business operations.
As such, the provisions of section 269SS and 269T dof the Act
shall not be attracted where there is no involvement of the
„money‟ as held by the Hon‟ble High Court of Delhi in the above
cited cases, supra. Therefore, in the facts of the present case, in
our opinion, though the assessee has violated the provisions
of Section 269SS / 269T of the Act in respect of journal entries,
the assessee has shown reasonable cause and, therefore, the
penalty imposed under Section 271D /E of the Act are not
sustainable. Regarding an amount of „money‟ said to have been
paid in violation of the said provisions, the same needs to be
deleted in view of our decision on the legal issue discussed in para
16 to 22 of the this order. Accordingly, the grounds raised in this
regard are allowed. 1. I.T.A. No.475/M/2014 (AY 2009-10) (Lodha Properties
Development Pvt Ltd) 2. I.T.A. No.477/M/2014 (AY 2009-10) (Asthavinayak Real
Estate Pvt Ltd) 3. I.T.A. No.478/M/2014 (AY 2009-10) (Aadinath Builders Pvt
Ltd) 4. I.T.A. No.479/M/2014 (AY 2009-10) (Ajitnath Hi-Tech
Builders Pvt Ltd) 5. I.T.A. No.480/M/2014 (AY 2009-10) (Lodha Crown Buildmart
Pvt Ltd) 36. All these appeals relate to the penalty u/s 271D of the Act.
The facts, arguments and the legal propositions are identical, in
principle, in all the five appeals under consideration. Therefore,
our findings given in the context of the appeal in the case of Lodha Builders P Ltd (supra) are applicable to all the other five
appeals of the assessees. Accordingly, the grounds raised in these
appeals under consideration are also allowed. M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. 37. In the result, all the 7 appeals of the assessees are allowed." 2.4. It is noteworthy that the aforesaid order of the

Tribunal dated 27/06/2014 was carried in appeal by the

Revenue before Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court, wherein,

vide order dated 06/02/2018 in the case of CIT vs Ajitnath

Hi-Tech Builders Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No.178 of 2015) and CIT vs

Lodha Properties Development Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. , the Hon'ble

High Court upheld the order of the Tribunal and held as

under:- case and in law, the Tribunal is justified in holding that
the journal entries should enjoy equal immunity on par with
account payee cheques and bank drafts ? 3. Regarding Question No.(i) (a) The common impugned order of the Tribunal arises from the orders passed by
the Addl. Commissioner of Income Tax imposing penalty upon the respondents
under Section 271D of the Act for breach of Section 269SS of the Act. This
penalty was imposed inasmuch as during the previous year relevant to the subject
assessment year, the respondents had accepted loans / deposits by way of passing
journal entries in its books of accounts, in breach of Section 269SS of the Act. In
terms Section 269SS of the Act prohibits a person from taking / accepting any
loan / deposit or specified sum, otherwise by an account payee cheque or by
an account payee bank draft or by use of electronic clearing
system of a bank if the amount involved is in
excess of Rs.20,000/-. This imposition of penalty under Section 271D of the Act, was upheld by a common
order dated 31St December, 2013 passed by the
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals). On further
appeal, the impugned order dated 27t1 June, 2014 of
the Tribunal, inter a/ia held that penalty under Section
271D of the Act is not imposable in view of Section
273B of the Act. This for the reason that there
was a reasonable cause for the failure to comply with Section 269SS of the Act. (b) On merits of the issue, the parties before us are
agreed that the Tribunal was correct in holding that
receipt of any advance / loan by way of journal entries
is in breach of Section 269SS of the Act as the decision of
this Court in Commissioner of Income Tax Vs.
Triumph International Finance (I) Ltd. 345
ITR 270 is binding upon it. However, the
Revenue's grievance is with the impugned order dated
27 t June, 2014 of the Tribunal further holding no
penalty under Section 271D of the Act is imposable in
view of Section 273B of the Act in the present facts. This
is so as the Tribunal holds that the failure to comply with Section 269SS of the Act was on account of
reasonable cause on the part of the respondents. This
finding of reasonable cause was on the application of
parameters laid down by this Court in for not complying
with the provisions of Section 269SS of the Act. (c) Mr. Mohanty, the learned Counsel for the
Revenue seeks to challenge the impugned order of 44 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. the Tribunal on the ground that Section 273B of
 the Act will have no application as the test of
 reasonable cause is not satisfied :in the present facts for
 the following reasons :- Thus, it is submitted this question requires
 admission as it gives rise to a substantial question of
 law; (d) We find that the impugned order of the
 Tribunal has on
 application of the test laid down for establishment of
 reasonable cause, for breach of Section 269SS of the
 Act by this Court in Triumph International Finance (supra) found that there is a reasonable cause in the
 present facts to have made journal entries reflecting
 deposits. The Tribunal while relying upon the order
 of this Court in Triumph International Finance (supra)
 has held that in the present facts, neither the
 genuineness of receipt of loans / deposits by way of an
 adjustment through journal entries carried out in the
 ordinary course of business has been doubted in the
 regular assessment proceedings. It held in the present
 facts the transaction by way of journal entries was
 undisputedly done to raise funds from sister concerns,
 to adjust or transfer balances to consolidate debts, to
 correct clerical errors etc. Further; the Tribunal records
 that as observed by this Court in Triumph International
 Finance (supra) that journal entries constituted a 45 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. recognized modes of recording of transactions and in
the absence of any adverse finding by the authorities
that the journal entries were made with a view to
achieve purposes out side the normal business
operations or there was any involvement of money, then,
in these facts there was a reasonable cause for not
complying with Section 2695S of the Act. (e) Mr. Mohanty's submission that the test laid
down in Triumph International Finance (supra) will
have no application in the present facts in view of the
large number of entries in this case as compared to only
one entry in the case before this Court. The test of
reasonable cause can not, in the present facts be
determined on the basis of the number of entries. If
there was a reasonable cause for making the journal
entries, then, the number of entries made, will not make
any difference. Besides, on facts, the Tribunal was
satisfied with the reasons given by the Assessee for
reasonable cause and this finding is not shown to be
perverse. Finally, the issue of there being a reasonable
cause or not is an issue of fact. No inference of law and /
or issue of interpretation is to be made. The decision
relied upon by the Revenue in case of Premier Breweries
Ltd. (supra) concerned itself with the issue of a claim for
deduction under Section 37 of the Act on the basis of the
Agreements entered into between the parties. The
inference of law in that case was whether on the facts,
it could be inferred that the claim for deduction is in
respect of expenditure incurred wholly and
exclusively for the purposes of the business. Thus, it
would involve a question of interpretation of the
agreements etc. from which an inference is to be
drawn. Further, it also involves application of
principles of law to the facts for the purposes of
deductions and, therefore, it would lead to a question of
law. Therefore, the Court held in the facts of that case that
a question of law does arise. (f) In this case, the issue of reasonable cause is an
inference of fact from facts and, therefore, a question of
fact. The Supreme Court decision in Sree Meenakshi
Mills Ltd. Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax , 31 ITR 28
had laid down the tests to determine a question of law and / or 46 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. fact. In the above context, the Court observed that when the
finding is one of fact, the fact that it itself is an inference from
other basic facts, will not alter its character as one of fact.
Therefore, the issue of there being reasonable cause or not, is
a question of fact and unless it is shown to be perverse, we would
normally not interfere. (g) In the above circumstances, the view taken by the
Tribunal on the facts before it, is a possible view and
does not give rise to any substantial question of law. (h) In any event, as rightly pointed out by Mr.
Sridharan, learned Senior Counsel for the respondents
assesses, the order of this Court in Triumph
International Finance (supra) was rendered on
12' June, 2012. This, was in an appeal filed by the
Revenue from the order of the Tribunal dated 29th
January, 2008, which had held that deposits / loans
received through journal entries do not fall with the
mischief of Section 269SS of the Act, so as to invite
penalty under Section 271D of the Act. This, the
Tribunal did by following its earlier orders in the
case of VN. Parekh Ltd. and Ketan Parelth as indicated
in the order ofthis Court in Triumph International
Finance (supra). Our attention was also invited to numerous reported
decisions of the Tribunal in the cases of Sunflower Builders Vs. Dy.CIT ,
1997 ( 61) lTD (Pune) 227, Asst.CIT Vs. Ruchika Chemicals &
Investment (P) Ltd. 2004 (88) TTJ (Delhi)85 and Asst.CIT Vs. Lala
Murari Lal & Sons, 2004(2) SOT (Luck) 543 wherein it has been
held journal entries in the book of accounts indicating deposit / loans
will not fall foul of Section 269SS of the Act. Besides, the Delhi High Court
in Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. Noida Toll
Bridge Co. Ltd. 262 ITR 260 inter alia held that payment of
Rs.4.85 crores made by the assesses by a journal entry in its books of
account by crediting the account of ILFS, would not fall foul of Section 2695S of the Act. This particularly in the absence of any payment being made
in cash. (i) In the present facts, the period during which the
journal entries were made by the respondents was in the
previous year relevant to the Assessment Year 2009-10 i.e.
Financial Year 2008-09. At that time, the decisions of the
Tribunal in the cases of Triumph International (Supra)
and decision of VH. Parekh (P) Ltd., Ketan V
Parekh, Sunflower Builders (supra), Ruchika
Chemicals (supra), Lala Murari Lal (supra) and the
decision of the Delhi High Court in Noida Toll Bridge Co. M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. Ltd. (supra) were holding the field. Thus, not in breach of Section 269SS of the Act. In the above view, while
 agreeing with the submission of Mr. Mohanty, learned
 Counsel for the appellant that the decision of this Court
 in Triumph International Finance (supra) has only
 clarified / stated the position as always existing in law,
 the receiving of deposits / loans through journal entries
 would certainly be hit by Section 2695S of the Act. Nevertheless, prior to the decision of this Court in Triumph International Finance (supra), there was
 reasonable cause for respondents to receive deposit /
 loan through journal entries. This non-compliance with Section 269SS of the Act would certainly be a
 reasonable cause under Section 273B of the Act for non-
 imposition of penalty under Section 271D of the Act. (j) In the above circumstances, the view taken by the
 Tribunal in the impugned order holding that no
 penalty can be imposed upon the respondents as
 there was a reasonable cause in terms of Section 271B of the Act for having received loans / deposits through
 journal entries is at the very least is a possible view in the
 facts of the case. (k) Therefore, the question as posed does not
 give rise to any substantial question of law. Thus, not
 entertained. 4. Regarding question nos. (ii). (iii) and (iv) :- 5. Accordingly, all six appeals are dismissed. No order
 as to costs." 2.5. In another case of Vimal Enterprises vs ACIT

(ITA No.6930/Mum/2016), order dated 14/06/2017, the

Mumbai Bench of the Tribunal on identical issue held that 48 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. in view of provision of section 273B and penalty under section 271D for contravention of section 269SS cannot be

held to be justified and the Ld. Assessing Officer was

directed to delete the penalty. The relevant portion of the

aforesaid order is reproduced hereunder:- 3. The Joint Commissioner of the Income Tax- 31(3), Mumbai, based on the observations of the
 assessing officer, initiated penalty proceedings
 u/s. 271 D of the I.T. Act, 1961 and accordingly,
 issued a show cause notice dated 01.09.2015
 which was duly served on the assessee, requiring
 it to show cause as to why penalty shall not be
 levied u/s.271D of the Act, for contravention of
 provision of Section 269SS of the I.T. Act, 1961. 4. In response to show cause notice, the
 assessee has filed its reply vide letter dated
 30.08.2015 and submitted that there is no
 contravention of Section 296SS, as it has 49 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. accepted loans by way of book adjustment, by
passing necessary journal entries in the books
accounts for transfer of existing unsecured loans
borrowed by its sister concern M/s. Atlanta
International. The assessee further submitted that
the reason for transfer of loans appearing in the
books of M/s. Atlanta International is that, its
bankers were insisting for additional capital
contribution from the partners/their friends and
relatives for the purpose of availing financial
facilities, therefore it has transferred unsecured
loans taken in the name of its sister concerns to
its books of accounts on the bonafide belief that
accepting loan by book adjustment, through
journal entries would not attract the provision of Section 269SS of the I.T. Act, 1961. 5. The A.O after considering the explanation of
the assessee and also analyses of the provision of Section 269SS and 271D of the Act, observed that
the provision of Section 271D doesn't mentioned
anything about the loans being taken in cash. The
provision is on accepting any loan or deposit
otherwise then by an account payee cheque or
account payee bank draft (or use of electronic
clearance system through the bank draft). From
the reading of provision of Section 271D , it is
clear that if a loan or deposit is accepted
otherwise then by way of account payee cheque
or bank draft, then it is in contravention of
provisions of Section 269SS , which attracts
penalty u/s. 271D of the Act. The A.O further
observed that though Section 273B excludes
certain failures referred to in the provision of Section 271D , to get immunity from penalty, the
onus is on the assessee to prove that there was a
reasonable cause for the said failure. The
assessee, neither before the A.O nor during
penalty proceedings failed to prove reasons for
not accepting the loans by way of modes referred
to in Section 269SS of the Act. Therefore, opined
that the assessee has violated the provision of Section 269SS , which attracts penalty u/s. 271D of the Act. Accordingly, levied penalty of 50 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. Rs.21,51,464/-, equal to the amount of
loan/deposit taken/accepted. 6. Aggrieved by the penalty order, the assessee
preferred an appeal before the CIT(A). Before the
CIT(A), the assessee reiterated the submissions
made before the A.O. The assessee further
submitted that there is no violation of provisions
of Section 269SS of the Act, as it has accepted
loans by way of book adjustment by passing
necessary journal entries in the books of accounts
for the existing loans appeared in the books of
accounts of its sister concerns. The reasons for
transferring existing loans from the books of its
sister concerns is that its bankers are instating for
additional capital contribution from the partners or
their friends & associates for the purpose of
extending credit facilities. The assessee under
bonafide belief, that acceptance of loans by way
of book adjustment, would not attract provision of Section 269SS , has transferred existing loans
from its sister concerns to its books accounts,
therefore it cannot be considered as acceptance of
loans other than by way of account payee cheque
or bank drafts. In support of its arguments, relied
upon the decision of Hon'ble Bombay High Court,
in the case CIT vs. Triumph International Finance
(India) Ltd. (2012) 245 ITR 270 (Bom). 7. The CIT(A), after considering the relevant
submissions of the assessee, held that accepting
loans by way of book adjustment through journal
entries is violation of Section 269SS and the
penalty u/s. 271D of the Act, was correctly
imposed. With these observations, upheld penalty
levied by the A.O and dismissed appeal filed by
the assessee. Aggrieved by the CIT(A) order, the
assessee is in appeal before us. 8. The Ld. A.R for the assessee, submitted that
the Ld. CIT(A) without giving proper/sufficient
opportunity and disregarding the bonafide and
genuine explanation of the assessee erred in
holding that accepting loan by way of book
transaction through journal entry is a violation of Section 269SS , which attracts penalty u/s.271D of
the Act. The A.R further submitted that the 51 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. assessee was under bonafide belief that the
alleged transaction was not within the purview of
the provision of Section 269SS of the Act. It is
further argued the assessee has accepted loans
by book adjustment and transferred existing loans
appeared in the books accounts of its sister
concern M/s. Atlanta International on the bonafide
belief that accepting loans by book adjustment
would not attract penalty provisions of Section
271D . It is further submitted that it has accepted
loans, as its bankers insisting for additional
contribution from the partners and their friends
for the purpose of extending credit facilities. The
A.R further submitted that the A.O erred in
levying penalty without their being any finding in
the assessment order or the penalty order that
acceptance of loan was not bonafide transaction
and that the entries were made with a view to
evade tax. The assessee has accepted loans under
bonafide belief that these transactions are not hit
by the provisions of Section 269SS and also fact
that there is reasonable cause for not accepting
the loans by way of cheques or bank drafts and
therefore, the AO was completely erred in levying
penalty, brushing aside explanation filed by the
assessee. In support of his arguments, relied
upon the following judgments. iii) CIT vs. Natvarlal Purshottamdas Parekh (203 ITR 5) iv) CIT vs. Noida Toll Bridge Co. Limited (2562
ITR 260) v) Bombay Conductors & Electricals Limited vs.
OCIT 56 TT J(Ahd) 580 vi) CIT vs. Govind Kumar 119 Taxman 110
(Raj) vii) Sunflower Builders (P) Ltd. vs. OCIT 61
ITO 227 (Pune) viii) ITO vs. Arnar Nath Shivraj (HUF);1 SOT
346 (Agra) 52 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. ix) ACIT vs. Gujarat Ambuja Proteins Ltd. 3
SOT 811 (Ahd.) 9. On the other hand, the Ld. DR strongly
supported order of the CIT(A). The D.R further
submitted that the provisions of section 271D would apply, if assessee accepts loans or deposits
in contravention of the provision of Section 269SS of the Act. In this case, the assessee has accepted
unsecured loans otherwise then by way of account
payee cheque or bank draft, in contravention of Section 269SS of the Act, and hence, the A.O was
rightly invoked the provision of Section 271D of
the Act. 10. We have heard both the parties, perused the
materials available on record and gone through
the orders of the authorities below. The A.O levied
penalty u/s.271D of the Act, for contravention of
provision of Section 269SS of the Act. According
to the A.O, the assessee accepted unsecured
loans otherwise then by way of account payee
cheque or bank drafts in contravention of
provisions of Section 269SS of the Act. It is the
contention of the assessee that there is no
contravention of provisions of Section 269SS of
the Act, as it has accepted loans by way of book
adjustments through journal entries to transfer
existing loans appeared in the books of its sister
concerns. The assessee further contended that
the reasons for accepting loans by way of book
adjustment is that its bankers insisting for
additional contribution from its partners or from
their friends and relatives for the purpose of
extending credit facility. The assessee has
accepted loans under bonafide belief that
acceptance of loans by book adjustments would
not attract provision of section 269SS and also
there was a business exigency in accepting loans
which come under reasonable cause as defined u/s. 273B of the Act. 11. The provision of 271D of the Act, provides for
levy of penalty, for contravention of Section
269SS of the Act. Section 269SS of the Act,
prohibits acceptance of loans other than by way of
account payee cheque or demand draft. As per 53 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. the provision of Section 271D , if a person takes or
accepts any loan or deposits in excess of specified
some in contravention of the provision of section
269SS , he shall be liable to pay by way of
penalty, a sum equal amount of the loan or
deposit so taken or accepted. Therefore, as per
the provision of section 271D r.w.s. 269SS of the
Act, if a person accepts loans in excess of
specified limit otherwise then by way of an
account payee cheque or account payee bank
draft or use of electronic clearing system through
a bank account, then such person is liable for
penalty of equal amount of loan or deposit so
taken or accepted u/s. 271D of the Act. In this
case, no doubt the assessee has accepted loans in
excess of specified limits, otherwise then by way
of account payee cheque or account payee bank
draft. Therefore, we are of the considered view
that the assessee has accepted loans in
contravention of the provision of Section 269SS of
the Act. 12. Having said, let us examine whether any
reasonable cause for not accepting loans by way
of account payee cheque or demand draft. The
assessee claims that it has accepted loans by
book adjustment by passing journal entries in the
books of accounts for transfer of existing loans
appeared in the books of accounts of its sister
concerns. The assessee further claims that these
loans were accepted by its sister concern, through
proper banking channel. It was further contended
that it has transferred existing loans of its sister
concerns, because its bankers were insisting for
bringing in more capital contribution in the form
of own capital or loans and advances from
partners or their friends and relative for the
purpose extending credit facilities. The assessee
claims that these loans are genuine transaction
which were accepted by way of cheques by its
sister concern. The assessee further claims that it
was under the bonafide belief that, acceptance of
loans or deposit by book adjustment would not
attract the provision of Sections 269SS of the Act.
There is a reasonable cause, for failure to comply 54 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. with the provision of Section 269SS of the Act,
therefore penalty cannot be levied u/s. 271D of
the Act. 13. Having heard both the sides and considered
material on record, we find that the assessee has
accepted loans by way of journal entries. The
assessee has transferred loans standing in the
name of its sister concern to its books of accounts
for the purpose of enhancing its own funds as per
the requirement of its bankers for the purpose
availing credit facilities. The assessee has filed a
paper book containing details of loan ledgers of
parties appeared in the books of account of M/s.
Atlanta International and also ledger accounts of
loan creditors in the books of accounts. On
perusal of details field by the assessee, we find
that these loans have been transferred by book
adjustment by way journal entries. We further
noticed that the assessee has paid interest on
these loans after duly deducting applicable TDS.
We further observed that, it's not a case of A.O
that these loans are not genuine transactions. The
AO neither doubted genuineness of the loan nor
these are not a bonafide transaction or that the
entries were made with a view to evade tax. In
the absence of any finding as to genuineness of
the transactions or the loans were accepted to
evade taxes, penalty cannot be levied u/s. 271D of the Act, merely there is violation of Section
269SS of the Act. No doubt, the assessee has
accepted loans in excess of specified amount,
otherwise then by an account payee cheque or
account payee bank draft, which violates the
provision of Section 269SS of the Act. The
reasons given by the assessee for accepting loans
other than by way of account payee cheque or
bank draft in contravention of Section 269SS of
the Act, appears to be reasonable and comes
under reasonable cause as provided u/s.273B of
the Act. The provision of Section 273B provides
for immunity from levy of penalty, if such person
proves that there was a reasonable cause for the
failure referred to in the said provision of the Act.
In this case, on perusal facts available on records, 55 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. we find that the reasons given by the assessee for
accepting loans by way of book of adjustment
comes under the reasonable cause as provided u/s. 273B and hence, penalty cannot be levied u/s. 271D of the Act, for contravention of
provision of Section 269SS of the Act. 14. Coming to the case laws relied upon by the
assessee, as well as the CIT(A). The assessee has
relied upon the decision of Hon'ble High Court of
Bombay, in the case of CIT vs Triumph
International Finance(India) Ltd. (2012) 245 ITR 270. The Ld. CIT(A) also relied upon the decision
of Hon'ble Bombay High Court, in the case
mentioned above to confirm the penalty levied by
the A.O. We have gone through the case law
relied upon by both the parties. On perusal of the
decision of Hon'ble High Court, we find that their
lordships in the first phase, held that taking of
loans/ repaying loans through journal entries is a
violation of the provision of section 269SS of the
Act. However, in the second phase, the Hon'ble
Court observed that in the absence of any finding
in the assessment order or in the penalty order to
the effect that the repayment of loan or deposit
was not a bonafide transaction and was made
with a view to evade tax, the cause shown by the
assessee was a reasonable cause and in view of Section 273B of the Act, no penalty u/s. 271E could be imposed for contravention of provisions
of Section 269T . The relevant portion of the order
is extracted below: payee cheque or draft and receive back almost
the same amount towards the sale price of the
shares. Neither the genuineness of the receipt of
loan or deposit nor the transaction of repayment
of loan by way of adjustment through book
entries carried out in the ordinary course of
business had been doubted in the regular 56 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. assessment. There was nothing on record to
suggest that the amounts advanced by I to the
assessee represented the unaccounted money of I
or the assessee. The fact that the assessee- company belonged to a group involved in the
securities scam could not be a ground for
sustaining penalty imposed under section 271E of
the Act if reasonable cause was shown by the
assessee for failing to comply with the provision of section 269T . Settling claims by making journals
entries in the respective books is also one of the
recognized modes of repaying loan or deposits.
Therefore, on the facts, in the absence of any
finding recorded in the assessment order of in the
penalty order to the effect that the repayment of
loan or deposit was not a bona fide transaction
and was made with a view to evade tax, the cause
shown by the assessee was reasonable cause and
in view of the section 273B of the Act, no penalty
under section 271E could be imposed for
contravening the provisions of section 269T of the
Act." 15. The Ld. CIT(A) has considered part of the
judgment and ignored other part of the judgment
to confirm penalty levied u/s. 271D of the Act. No
doubt, we are of the considered view that penalty u/s. 271D is leviable for accepting of loan or
deposit in contravention of Section 269SS of the
Act. However, the genuine transactions and
bonafide explanations cannot take away the right
of the assessee of immunity provided u/s. 271D of
the Act. Therefore, we are of the considered view
that the explanations offered by the assessee
appears to be coming within the purview of the
provisions of Section 273B of the Act, and hence,
penalty cannot be levied u/s. 271D , for
contravention of provisions of Section 269SS of
the Act. Therefore, we direct the AO to delete
penalty levied u/s 271D of the Act. 16. In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee
is allowed." M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. 2.6. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court vide order dated

28/01/2013 in the case of Noida Toll Bridge 262 ITR

260(Del.) on identical issue observed held as under:- tax Act, 1961 ('the Act'), is directed against the order, dated May
 16, 2002, passed by the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal,
 New Delhi ('the Tribunal'), in I.T.A. No. 238/Delhi of 2002,
 pertaining to the assessment year 1998-99. According to the
 Revenue, the said order involves the following substantial
 questions of law : Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the present appeal are that
 the respondent-assessee, referred to as the 'special purpose
 vehicle', was promoted by one Infrastructure Leasing and Finance
 Services Ltd. ('IL & FS'), with 30 per cent holding, to construct and
 operate a bridge on the river Yamuna on a build, own, operate and
 transfer basis. For undertaking the said project the assessee had
 to make a payment of Rs. 4.85 crores to the Government
 of Delhi in relation to the acquisition of land for the said project. 2. While completing the assessment of the assessee for the
 assessment year 1998-99, the Assessing Officer initiated penalty
 proceedings under section 271D of the Act as he was of the view
 that the assessee had violated the provisions of section 269SS of
 the Act because the payment of Rs. 4.85 crores to
 the Delhi Government was not made in the manner prescribed in section 269SS of the Act. We may note at this stage itself that the
 said payment had in fact been made by IL & FS vide account payee
 cheque to the DelhiGovernment and the amount was debited to
 the account of the assessee in its books of account. 3. Not being satisfied with the reply filed by the assessee to the
 show-cause notice, the Assessing Officer levied a penalty of Rs.
 4.85 crores under section 271D of the Act on the assessee for
 alleged violation of the provisions of section 269SS of the Act. 4. Aggrieved, the assessee preferred appeal to the Commissioner
 of Income-tax (Appeals) but without any success. The assessee
 carried the matter in further appeal to the Tribunal. By the
 impugned order, the Tribunal had deleted the said penalty. While 58 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. holding that the provisions of section 269SS of the Act were not
 attracted, the Tribunal has noticed that: (i) in the instant case, the
 transaction was by an account payee cheque, (ii) no payment on
 account was made in cash either by the assessee or on its behalf, (iii) no loan was accepted by the assessee in cash, and (iv) the
 payment of Rs. 4.85 crores made by the assessee through IL & FS,
 which holds more than 30 per cent of the paid-up capital of the
 assessee, by journal entry in the books of account of the assessee
 by crediting the account of IL & FS. 5. Having regard to the aforenoted findings, which are essentially
 findings of fact, we are in complete agreement with the Tribunal
 that the provisions of section 269SS were not attracted on the
 facts of the case. Admittedly, neither the assessee nor IL & FS had
 made any payment in cash. The order of the Tribunal does not
 give rise to any question of law, much less a substantial question
 of law. 6. We accordingly decline to entertain the appeal. Dismissed." 2.7. In the light of the aforesaid decisions, now we

shall the facts, in brief, for Assessment Year 2007-08 (ITA

No.7124/Mum/2016), the assessment was completed

under section 143(3) r.w.s. 147 of the Act at a total income

of Rs.1,31,340/- on 30/03/2015. In the assessment order,

it has been observed by the Ld. Assessing Officer that the

assessee has violated the provisions of section 269SS / 269T by not accepting/not repaying the loans through account

payee cheque/bank draft and therefore the Ld. Addl. CIT

levied penalty under section 271D with respect to total

credit entries amounting to Rs.59,38,157/- arising in the

books with M/s Lodha Development Pvt. Ltd. by way of

journal entries, during the Financial Year 2006-07 59 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. (Assessment Year 2007-08). It is noted that the Ld. Addl. CIT following the decision from Hon'ble jurisdictional High

Court in the case of Triumph International Finance (I) Ltd. ((supra)) (also relied upon by the Ld. CIT-DR) held that

there is a contravention of the provisions of section 269SS of the Act and further the assessee could not prove a

reasonable cause for contravention of the provision. He

observed that since the disclosure was made by the group

companies before the income settlement commission,

Mumbai, following search in Lodha Group of Cases on

10/01/2011, it could not be ruled out that the entities

through such repayment/acceptance by way of journal

entries are involved in transactions for the purpose of tax

evasion. Whereas, the stand of the assessee is that the

journal entries passed for transaction assigning debts and

liabilities among sister concern and reimbursement of

expenses do not constitute acceptance of loan or deposit of

money as per the provisions of section 269SS of the Act. The stand of the Revenue is that the assessee company has

also paid interest on such loans and since the transactions

are more than the amount of Rs.20,000/- and not through 60 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. account payee cheque/bank draft, there is violation of the

provisions of section 269SS / 269T of the Act. However, if

the cases relied upon by the Ld. CIT-DR as well as by the

Ld. Counsel for the assessee are kept in juxtaposition and

analyzed, we find that the Hon'ble High Court in a later

order dated 06/02/2018 in the case of CIT vs Ajitnath Hi- Tech Builders Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. ((supra)) duly discussed the

decisions in the case of CIT vs Triumph International

Finance India Ltd. , relied upon by the Ld. CIT-DR along

with the decision from Hon'ble Apex Court in Premier

Breweries Pvt. Ltd. vs CIT 372 ITR 180, Meenakshi Mills

Ltd. vs CIT 31 ITR 28, Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. (262

ITR 260) along with the non-compliance of section 269SS ,

meaning of reasonable cause under section 273B and

consequent penalty under section 271D and thereafter

upheld the order of the Tribunal and dismissed the appeals

of the Revenue. Identically, the Mumbai Bench of the

Tribunal in the case of Vimal Enterprises vs JCIT ((supra)),

wherein, one of us (Ld. AM) is signatory to the order

allowed the appeal of the assessee. No contrary facts were

brought to our notice by the Revenue contradicting the 61 ITA Nos.7124 to 7129/Mum/2016 M/s Galaxy Premises Pvt. Ltd. observation made in the impugned orders, therefore,

 respectfully following the aforesaid decisions from Hon'ble

 Apex Court, Hon'ble High Courts, the decision of the Co- ordinate bench and considering the factual matrix, we find

 no infirmity in the conclusion drawn by the Ld. First

 Appellate Authority, resultantly, the appeals of the Revenue

 are dismissed. Finally, the appeals of the Revenue are dismissed. This Order was pronounced in the open court in the

 presence of ld. representatives from both sides at the

 conclusion of the hearing on 01/05/2018. आदे श क %$त'ल(प अ)े(षत/Copy of the Order forwarded to : आदे शानस
 ु ार/ BY ORDER,
 स1या5पत 0 त //True Copy//

 उप/सहायक पंजीकार (Dy./Asstt. Registrar)
 आयकर अपील य अ धकरण, मब
 ुं ई / ITAT, Mumbai