Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes

 For the petitioner: Mr. Ajay Kochhar, Senior Advocate with Mr.
 Varun Chauhan & Ms. Swati Sharma,
 Advocates. For the respondent: Mr. Manoj Chauhan, Additional Advocate
 General. ____________________________________________________

 Sushil Kukreja, Judge

 The instant bail application has been filed by the petitioner

 under Section 483 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita (for short

 "BNSS") for grant of regular bail in case FIR No. 120 of 2023, dated

 24.09.2023, under Sections 420 and 120B of Indian Penal Code (for

 short " IPC "), read with Section 59 of the HP Protection of Interest of

 Depositors Act, 1999 and Sections 21 and 23 of the Banning of

 Unregulated Deposit Schemes Act, 2019, registered at Police Station

 Palampur, District Kangra, Himachal Pradesh. Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 2 2. Brief facts of the case, as per the prosecution story, are

 that on the basis of written complaint made by one Shri Arun Singh

 . Guleria (complainant) on 24.09.2023, a case was registered at Police

 Station Palampur, District Kangra, HP. It was alleged in the said

 complaint that a group of individuals, including Subhash Sharma, Hem

 Raj, Sukhdev (residents of Mandi), Abhishek Sharma (resident of Una),

 of
 and Milan Garg, (resident of Meerut, UP), were engaged in fraudulent

 activities related to crypto-currency H.P. On the advice of accused
 rt
 Subhash Sharma, the complainant alongwith others had invested in a

 website, i.e., www.voscrow.io, which was owned by accused Subhash

 Sharma alongwith Milan Garg and in lieu of their investments, virtual

 currency was provided through the website. Accused Subhash Sharma

 alongwith promoters Sukh Dev Thakur and Abhishek Sharma, allegedly

 cheated the general public through websites, like Voscrow and

 Hypenext. During the period between 2019-2020, the aforesaid

 persons promised the individuals to double their money and such

 promises continued till 2021 and during that period, some individuals

 received distributions of funds against their investments, which led to

 increase in the investments, resultantly many people invested. On

 25.12.2021, the allocations were halted by Subhash Sharma and later

 on, he assured that the allocations would resume soon. Subsequently,

 Subhash Sharma tied-up with Hypenext, which was owned by Milan ::: Downloaded on - 06/12/2025 00:16:31 :::CIS ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 3 Garg and on being persuaded, the people invested/reinvested in

 Hypenext again and they also received partial funds against their

 . investments, which practice continued till 2022. Thereafter, due to

 technical issues, the company requested five months' time for payment

 qua which, through a video, Subhash Sharma and Milan Garg informed

 the entire community. In total, the amount involved was Rs.18 Crores

 of
 and they acknowledged and promised to activate new IDs on 8 th

 August, 2023 at Aglobal.io, however, neither his (complainant)
 rt
 community, nor he received any money. Hence, it was alleged that

 Milan Garg, Subhash Sharma, Hemraj, Sukhdev Thakur and Abhishek

 Sharma defrauded the people by creating fake website and it was a

 well-planned conspiracy. 3. As per the FIR, the accused persons were involved in

 fraudulent activities related to crypto-currency and they enticed the

 people to invest substantial amount(s), promising high returns, which

 resulted in a collective loss of Rs.18 crores to the complainant and his

 associates. On 26.09.2023 a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was

 constituted, which was headed by DIG of Northern Range,

 Dharamshala, for investigating various crypto-currency related fraud

 cases across the State. It was unearthed that the modus operandi of

 the alleged fraud involved alluring individuals with promise of high

 returns on crypto-currency investments, creating a network of ::: Downloaded on - 06/12/2025 00:16:31 :::CIS ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 4 investors, who recruited others, manipulating crypto-currency prices

 and ultimately causing financial loss to the victims. It was further

 . unearthed that the accused persons used a combination of

 misinformation, deception and threats to maintain control over their

 scheme and continued extracting money from unsuspecting investors. 4. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner contended that

 of
 the petitioner has no role in the instant case and a false case has

 been foisted against him. He further contended that in the instant case
 rt
 the Investigating Agency had arrested as many as 74 person and them

 as accused on the statement of the complainant and other depositors

 who allegedly were allured by Subhash Sharma, Milan Garg, Abhishek

 Sharma, Sukh Dev Thakur and Hem Raj, who were the masterminds

 behind the alleged fraud. However, no depositor had ever named the

 petitioner to be involved in the crypto currency or stated that he allured

 the depositors to invest money in the aforesaid scheme being run by

 the aforesaid five persons. He also contended that since some of the

 properties were jointly purchased in their respective shares by some of

 the above said persons and by Subhash Sharma with the petitioner, the

 said Subhash Sharma, in order to secure his properties and to change

 the line of investigation suffered a confession to the Investigating

 Agency thereby giving details of the properties purchased jointly by him

 with the petitioner. Moreover, in his confession, he nowhere alleged ::: Downloaded on - 06/12/2025 00:16:31 :::CIS ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 5 that the petitioner was involved in the business of crypto currency. Lastly, he contended that all the other co-accused in the present case

 . except Hem Raj, Milan Garg, Sukh Dev and Abhishek have been

 released on bail, as such, the petitioner also deserves to be released

 on bail on the ground of parity, as no fruitful purpose would be served

 by keeping him behind the bars for an unlimited period. of 5. Conversely, the learned Additional Advocate General

 contended that the petitioner does not deserve to be released on bail
 rt
 as he has been found involved in a serious economic offence of huge

 magnitude, so at this stage, in case he is enlarged on bail, he may

 tamper with the prosecution evidence and may also flee from justice. He further contended that the present bail application filed by the

 petitioner is the successive one, which is liable to be dismissed as

 there is no change in circumstances after the dismissal of the earlier

 bail application. 6. I have heard the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner,

 learned Additional Advocate General for the respondent/State and have

 also carefully gone through the material available on record. 7. The law with respect to the grant or refusal of bail is well

 settled. It has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in a catena of

 judgments that the grant of bail involves the balancing of numerous

 factors, among which the nature of the offence, the severity of the ::: Downloaded on - 06/12/2025 00:16:31 :::CIS ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 6 punishment and a prima facie view of the involvement of the accused

 are important. At the stage of assessing whether a case is fit for the

 . grant of bail, the court is not required to enter into a detailed analysis of

 the evidence on record to establish beyond reasonable doubt the

 commission of the crime by the accused. However, the Court is

 required to examine whether there is a prima facie or reasonable

 of
 ground to believe that the accused had committed the offence and on a

 balance of the considerations involved, the continued custody of the
 rt
 accused sub-serves the purpose of the criminal justice system. In Chaman Lal Vs. State of U.P. and Another , (2004) 7 SCC 525, the

 Apex Court has laid down requisite factors for consideration of bail i.e., (i) nature of accusation and the severity of punishment in case of

 conviction and the nature of supporting evidence, (ii) reasonable

 apprehension of tampering with the witness or apprehension of threat

 to the complainant, and (iii) prima facie satisfaction of the court in

 support of the charge. 8. In the case on hand, the perusal of the record prima facie

 revealed that Vijay Kumar Juneja (petitioner herein) came in contact

 with accused Subhash Sharma when Subhash Sharma was operating

 a cryptocurrency based multi level marketing scheme. Accused

 Subhash Sharma after being impressed by Vijay Kumar Juneja's

 proposal to invest money in real estate, started instructing his core ::: Downloaded on - 06/12/2025 00:16:31 :::CIS ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 7 team members namely Hemraj, Sukhdev Thakur, Abhishek Verma,

 Vipin, Govind Goswami, Vishal Verma and Sanjay Saklani to deposit

 . the cash collected from the investors at Juneja Square, Zirakpur. Subsequently, the team members regularly delivered large amounts of

 cash at Juneja Square. The cash handed over at Juneja Square was

 neither documented nor routed through legal banking channels. Later

 of
 on, it was found that this cash was used by Vijay Kumar Juneja to

 purchase real estate properties. During the course of further
 rt
 investigation, statement of Suresh Kumar was recorded under Section

 161 Cr. P.C., wherein, he stated that in the year 2020, he had invested

 Rs. 3.75 lakhs in the Korvio scheme through one Harsh Thakur. Later,

 he actively started working under the scheme and added many persons

 below him. Most of the money collected from the investors was in cash,

 which was deposited at Juneja Square, Zirakpur. He further stated that

 during his involvement in Korvio, he personally delivered cash

 amounting to approximately Rs. 1 Crore at Juneja Square. During

 further investigation, statement of Smt. Pavna Kumari was recorded

 under Section 161 Cr. P.C. and she produced original documents

 pertaining to the case, including Memorandum of Understanding, dated

 30.07.2020, executed between her husband Hemraj and Masoom

 Juneja, son of the present petitioner. As per said document, Hemraj

 held a 10% ownership share in Juneja Square, Zirakpur. She also ::: Downloaded on - 06/12/2025 00:16:31 :::CIS ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 8 submitted a copy of an agreement executed between V.L. Builders and

 Subhash Sharma, which indicated that Subhash Sharma also held a

 . 10% share in Juneja Square. She further stated that in the year 2022,

 Vijay Kumar Juneja informed her husband about one acre piece of land

 in Zirakpur, owned by one Colonel Paramjeet, which was available for

 sale at a reasonable price. On this assurance, her husband Hemraj

 of
 handed over Rs. 1.11 Crore in cash at Juneja Square, out of which, Rs. 25 lakhs were deposited in Colonel Paramjeet's bank account. Vijay
 rt
 Kumar Juneja later informed them that the agreement had been

 finalized. Thereafter, Hemraj gave another sum of Rs. 06 crores in cash

 for the purchase of the said land. This witness stated that she

 accompanied her husband to Zirakpur at the time of this transaction. After the arrest of Hemraj, the petitioner got two acres of land

 registered in the names of himself and his family members. Although

 the agreement value was Rs.11 crores, the land was registered for Rs. 4.5 crores. The amount of Rs. 25 lakhs earlier paid to the Colonel was

 adjusted, and the remaining consideration was paid to him in cash. 9. Investigation further revealed that, during the process of

 identifying properties under the Banning of Unregulated Deposit

 Schemes Act, 2019 (BUDS Act ), the role of the petitioner came to light. It was found that he had jointly purchased lands with Subhash Sharma

 and had also opened multiple joint bank accounts with him. ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 9 Accordingly, a notice was issued to the petitioner to join the

 investigation. However, instead of appearing, he approached the High

 . Court of Himachal Pradesh and a direction was issued that the

 investigating agency intended to arrest the petitioner, a prior notice of

 such arrest must be given to him. In compliance to aforesaid directions,

 a Look Out Circular (LOC) was issued and shared with all international

 of
 airports to ensure that the petitioner could not leave the country. International Airport, New Delhi, while he was attempting to travel to

 Dubai. During investigation, it was unearthed that the petitioner had

 started his real estate business in the year, 2003. However, until 2018,

 his banking transactions did not reflect significant earnings to support

 the large scale acquisition of properties made later. The bank accounts

 of the petitioner and his family members, namely Mayank Juneja and

 Masoom Juneja were analyzed for the period 2014 to 2017 and it was

 revealed that across three accounts, the combined deposits were Rs. 1,89,06,940/- and withdrawals were Rs. 1,86,27,385/-. The details of

 said accounts are under:- 10. In the year 2018, the petitioner opened multiple bank

 accounts in the names of his sons and several joint accounts with

 accused Subhash Sharma and Hemraj. In addition to above, accounts

 of
 were also opened in the names of his employees, namely Jagdish and

 Rajat and the petitioner deposited significant amounts into the bank
 rt
 accounts opened in the names of his employees, Rajat Nayyer and

 Jagdish Kumar and huge amounts were deposited and withdrawn from

 the said accounts. The details of said accounts are under:- 13. Investigation further revealed that after disclosure

 statement of Subhash Sharma, certain agreements were recovered,

 which indicated that Vijay Kumar Juneja had entered into a 10% share

 agreement for "Juneja Square" with Subhash Sharma and Hemraj. ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 13 However, later, he manipulated the transactions and transferred the

 property entirely into his own name, thereby holding it as benami

 . property. Though, the approximate value of this property was estimated

 at Rs. 2 crores by Vijay Juneja during his examination, however, he

 could not produce any documents or investment records related to the

 purchase of "Juneja Square". Consequently, valuation of the property

 of
 was conducted through an approved valuer and it was found that total

 market value of the property was assessed at Rs. 4,75,90,000/- as of
 rt
 10.04.2025. 14. Investigation further revealed that the petitioner alongwith

 his associates is joint owner of a large parcel of land situated at Village

 Nabha, Sub-tehsil Zirakpur, District SAS Nagar (Mohali), Punjab, which

 was jointly purchased by Mayank Juneja and other associates,

 including accused Sukhdev, Subhash Sharma, Paras Ram Sen and

 Hem Raj. The details of the said property are as under: Total land area: 11-08-00 bighas, approximately 11,491
 square yards." ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 14 Out of the aforesaid property, 43% share was sold by the

 petitioner, which had been originally purchased in the name of his son,

 . Mayank Juneja and the market value of the land, as assessed during

 the investigation, has been determined to be Rs. 17,23,65,000/-. 15. During investigation it was also found that the petitioner

 alongwith Subhash Sharma and Masoom Juneja is the joint owner of a

 of
 substantial land parcel situated at Village Nabha, Sub-tehsil Zirakpur,

 District SAS Nagar (Mohali), Punjab, the details whereof are as under: 16. On 22.12.2021, the petitioner alongwith Subhash Sharma,

 Romita Kashyap and Masoom Juneja, jointly purchased studio

 apartments from Gurdev Singh. The said property is located at Plot No.

 34, VIP Enclave, VIP Road, Village Bishanpur, Sub-tehsil Zirakpur,

 District SAS Nagar (Mohali) Punjab. The details of the said property are

 as under: 17. Thus, from the investigation, prima facie, it is evident that

 the petitioner is involved in the economic offences of huge magnitude. ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 15 Economic offences are considered grave offences as it affects the

 economy of the country as a whole and such offences having deep

 . rooted conspiracy and involving huge loss of public fund are to be

 viewed seriously. Economic offence is committed with cool calculation

 and deliberate design solely with an eye on personal profit regardless

 of the consequence to the community. In such type of offences, while

 of
 granting bail, the Court has to keep in mind, inter alia, the larger

 interest of public and State. The nature and seriousness of an
 rt
 economic offence and its impact on the society are always important

 considerations in such a case and those aspects must squarely be

 dealt with by the Court while passing an order on bail applications. 18. In the instant case, the investigation prima facie reveals

 that the petitioner Vijay Kumar Juneja had been actively managing the

 cash collected from the victims of the crypto currency fraud and he has

 invested this cash into various properties, most of which were acquired

 jointly with other co-accused persons. As per the prosecution, there is

 strong evidence against the petitioner that the substantial gains worth

 crores of rupees, which were acquired through the fraudulent scheme

 of crypto currency by accused Subhash Sharma and other accused

 persons, i.e., Hemraj, Sukhdev, Abhishek Sharma and Milan Garg etc.,

 were invested in acquiring the valuable assets, i.e., movable and

 immovable properties at different places through the present petitioner. ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 16 Therefore, in the opinion of this court, as the petitioner is prima facie

 alleged to be involved in the economic offences of huge magnitude, he

 . cannot be released on bail. 19. The law relating to bail in a case of economic offences is

 more or less settled in a catena of decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court. It would be useful at this point to give a conspectus of the law

 of
 and the principles for grant of bail in case of economic offences. Extracts from some of the most relevant and topical judgments on this
 rt
 point are set-out in the paragraphs that follow. 20. In the case of State of Gujrat vs. Mohan Lal Jitamalji

 Porwal reported in AIR 1987 SC 1321, it is held as follows:- 21. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Y.S. Jagan

 Mohan Reddy vs. CBI , (2013) 7 SCC 439 in paras 34 and 35 in ::: Downloaded on - 06/12/2025 00:16:31 :::CIS ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 17 respect of granting bail in economic offences having deep rooted

 conspiracy and large public money involved, has held as under:- 22. In the case of Nimmagadda Prasad vs. CBI , (2013) 7

 SCC 466, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed that the alarming

 rise in white collar crimes has affected the fiber of country's economic

 structure. Economic offences have serious repercussions on the

 development of the country as a whole. Economic offences constitute a

 class apart and a different approach has to be adopted in the matter of

 bail. Para 23 to 25 of the aforesaid judgment are extracted

 hereinbelow:- "23. Unfortunately, in the last few years, the country has been
 seeing an alarming rise in white-collar crimes, which has
 affected the fibre of the country's economic structure.
 Incontrovertibly, economic offences have serious repercussions
 on the development of the country as a whole. In State of
 Gujarat v. Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal [(1987) 2 SCC 364 : 1987 ::: Downloaded on - 06/12/2025 00:16:31 :::CIS ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 18 SCC (Cri) 364] this Court, while considering a request of the
 prosecution for adducing additional evidence, inter alia,
 observed as under: (SCC p. 371, para 5) "5. ... The entire

 . community is aggrieved if the economic offenders who ruin the
 economy of the State are not brought to book. A murder may be
 committed in the heat of moment upon passions being aroused.
 An economic offence is committed with cool calculation and

 deliberate design with an eye on personal profit regardless of
 the consequence to the community. A disregard for the interest
 of the community can be manifested only at the cost of

 of
 forfeiting the trust and faith of the community in the system to
 administer justice in an even-handed manner without fear of
 criticism from the quarters which view white-collar crimes with a
 permissive eye unmindful of the damage done to the national
 rt
 economy and national interest." 24. While granting bail, the court has to keep in mind the nature

 of accusations, the nature of evidence in support thereof, the
 severity of the punishment which conviction will entail, the
 character of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar to
 the accused, reasonable possibility of securing the presence of

 the accused at the trial, reasonable apprehension of the
 witnesses being tampered with, the larger interests of the
 public/State and other similar considerations. It has also to be

 kept in mind that for the purpose of granting bail, the legislature
 has used the words "reasonable grounds for believing" instead

 of "the evidence" which means the court dealing with the grant
 of bail can only satisfy itself as to whether there is a genuine
 case against the accused and that the prosecution will be able

 to produce prima facie evidence in support of the charge. It is
 not expected, at this stage, to have the evidence establishing
 the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. 25. Economic offences constitute a class apart and need to be
 visited with a different approach in the matter of bail. The
 economic offence having deep-rooted conspiracies and
 involving huge loss of public funds needs to be viewed
 seriously and considered as a grave offence affecting the
 economy of the country as a whole and thereby posing serious
 threat to the financial health of the country." ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 19 23. In a judgment rendered in the case of State of Bihar Vs.

 Amit Kumar , (2017) 13 SCC 751, it has been held that while

 . considering the bail involving socio-economic offences stringent

 parameters should be applied. Paras 8-9 of the said judgment are

 extracted hereunder:- 24. In a recent decision in Tarun Kumar Vs. Assistant

 Director Directorate of Enforcement , reported in 2023 SCC OnLine

 SC 1486, it has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as under: economic offences having deep-rooted conspiracies and
 involving huge loss of public funds need to be viewed seriously
 and considered as grave offences affecting the economy of the
 country as a whole and thereby posing serious threat to the

 financial health of the country. Undoubtedly, economic offences
 have serious repercussions on the development of the country
 as a whole. To cite a few judgments in this regard are Y.S.

 of
 Jagan Mohan Reddy v. Central Bureau of Investigation , Nimmagadda Prasad v. Central Bureau of Investigation , Gautam Kundu v. Directorate of Enforcement ( supra), State of
 Bihar v. Amit Kumar alias Bachcha Rai. This court taking a
 rt
 serious note with regard to the economic offences had
 observed as back as in 1987 in case of State of Gujarat v. Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal as under:-- 25. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner next contended

 that the petitioner is a senior citizen having number of age related

 ailments including the heart ailment and during custody, the petitioner

 was taken to IGMC, Shimla, as he had faced breathing problem as well

 as developed symptoms related to his heart ailment. However, at this

 stage, no case has been made out by the petitioner to release him on ::: Downloaded on - 06/12/2025 00:16:31 :::CIS ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 21 bail on medical grounds and there is nothing on record that the

 requisite medical facilities cannot be provided by the jail authorities. It is

 . settled law that in the absence of compelling reasons warranting grant

 of bail on medical grounds, the Courts shall not exercise their discretion

 in granting bail to the accused. Exercise of discretion depends on the

 facts and circumstances of each case, and the thumb rule essentially is

 of
 the nature of the sickness, health condition as well as availability of

 specialized and sustained medical treatment to the inmates confined
 rt
 within the four walls of the jail. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in a catena

 of judgments held that where an individual seeks bail on medical

 grounds, it shall be granted only in cases where the requisite medical

 facilities cannot be provided by the jail authorities. Reliance in this

 regard is placed on the decisions of the Supreme Court in State Vs.

 Jaspal Singh Gill , ( 1984) 3 SCC 555 and State of Uttar Pradesh Vs.

 Gayatri Prasad Prajapati , AIR 2020 SC 5014. The discretion vested in

 Courts to grant bail on medical grounds should be exercised in a

 sparing and cautious manner and every nature of sickness will not

 entitle the accused to be released on bail unless it is demonstrated that

 the sickness is of such a nature that if the accused is not released, he

 cannot get proper treatment 26. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner lastly contended

 that that there is inordinate delay in conclusion of trial, which infringes ::: Downloaded on - 06/12/2025 00:16:31 :::CIS ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 22 upon the right of speedy trial of the petitioner, as the trial in the case is

 not likely to be concluded in near future and keeping in view the fact

 . that the petitioner is behind the bars since 17.03.2025, he deserves to

 be released on bail, as no fruitful purpose would be served by keeping

 him behind the bars for an unlimited period. 27. Although, Article 21 of the Constitution of India guarantees

 of
 speedy trial and an under trial prisoner cannot be detained in

 jail/custody for an indefinite period, but, mere period of incarceration or
 rt
 the fact that the trial is not likely to be concluded in near future cannot

 entitle the petitioner to be enlarged on bail, as the petitioner is prima

 facie found involved in an economic offence of huge magnitude. In Serious Fraud Investigation Office Vs. Nittin Johari and another ,

 (2019) 9 SCC 165 the Supreme Court has held that stringent view

 should be taken by the Court towards grant of bail with respect to

 economic offences. Paragraphs 24 is extracted hereunder:- of
 This Court has adopted this position in several decisions, including Gautam Kundu v. Directorate of Enforcement [Gautam Kundu v.
 Directorate of Enforcement, (2015) 16 SCC 1 : (2016) 3 SCC (Cri)
 603] and State of Bihar v. Amit Kumar [State of Bihar v. Amit Kumar,
 (2017) 13 SCC 751 : (2017) 4 SCC (Cri) 771] . Thus, it is evident that
 the above factors must be taken into account while determining
 rt
 whether bail should be granted in cases involving grave economic
 offences. 28. The Supreme Court in the case reported in Chenna

 Boyanna Krishna Yadav Vs. State of Maharashtra and another (2007) 1 SCC 242 has held that when the gravity of offence alleged is

 severe, mere period of incarceration or the fact that the trial is not likely

 to be concluded in near future cannot entitle the petitioner to be

 enlarged on bail. The relevant portion of the aforesaid judgment reads

 as under:- (Emphasis supplied) 29. In the case of State of Bihar and another Vs. Amit

 Kumar alias Bachcha Rai (2017) 13 SCC 751 the Supreme Court

 has reiterated that where there is seriousness of the offence, the mere ::: Downloaded on - 06/12/2025 00:16:31 :::CIS ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 24 fact that the accused is languishing in jail during trial should not be the

 concern of the courts. The relevant portion of the aforesaid judgment

 . reads as under:- 30.
 rt
 In a recent decision in Tarun Kumar Vs. Assistant

 Director Directorate of Enforcement , reported in 2023 SCC

 OnLine SC 1486, it has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as

 under:- ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 25 22. Lastly, it may be noted that as held in catena of decisions,
 the economic offences constitute a class apart and need to be
 visited with a different approach in the matter of bail. The economic

 . offences having deep-rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of

 public funds need to be viewed seriously and considered as grave
 offences affecting the economy of the country as a whole and
 thereby posing serious threat to the financial health of the country.
 Undoubtedly, economic offences have serious repercussions on the

 development of the country as a whole. To cite a few judgments in
 this regard are Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy v. Central Bureau of
 Investigation , Nimmagadda Prasad v. Central Bureau of
 Investigation , Gautam Kundu v. Directorate of Enforcement ( supra),

 of
 State of Bihar v. Amit Kumar alias Bachcha Rai. This court taking a
 serious note with regard to the economic offences had observed as
 back as in 1987 in case of State of Gujarat v. Mohanlal Jitamalji
 Porwal as under:-- 31. The Supreme Court in the case reported in (2004) 7 SCC

 528 ( Kalyan Chandra Sarkar Vs. Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav

 and another) has held that three years incarceration would not itself

 entitle the accused-applicant to be released on bail nor the fact that the

 trial is not likelihood to be concluded in near future would be sufficient

 for enlarging the accused-applicant on bail considering the gravity of

 offence. Paragraph-14 of the said judgment , which is relevant, is

 extracted hereunder:- and some such rejections have been affirmed by this Court also. It is

 seen from the records that when the fifth application for grant of bail
 was allowed by the High Court, the same was challenged before this
 Court and this Court accepted the said challenge by allowing the
 appeal filed by the Union of India and another and cancelled the bail

 granted by the High Court as per the order of this Court made in
 Criminal Appeal No. 745 of 2001 dated 25-7-2001 [ Rajesh Ranjan v.
 State of Bihar , (2000) 9 SCC 222] . While cancelling the said bail this
 Court specifically held that the fact that the present accused was in

 of
 custody for more than one year (at that time) and the further fact that
 while rejecting an earlier application, the High Court had given liberty
 to renew the bail application in future, were not grounds envisaged
 under Section 437(1)(i) of the Code. This Court also in specific terms
 held that the condition laid down under Section 437(1)(i) is sine qua
 non for granting bail even under Section 439 of the Code. In the
 rt
 impugned order it is noticed that the High Court has given the period
 of incarceration already undergone by the accused and the
 unlikelihood of trial concluding in the near future as grounds

 sufficient to enlarge the accused on bail, in spite of the fact that the
 accused stands charged of offences punishable with life
 imprisonment or even death penalty. In such cases, in our opinion,
 the mere fact that the accused has undergone certain period of
 incarceration (three years in this case) by itself would not entitle the

 accused to being enlarged on bail, nor the fact that the trial is not
 likely to be concluded in the near future either by itself or coupled
 with the period of incarceration would be sufficient for enlarging the
 appellant on bail when the gravity of the offence alleged is severe

 and there are allegations of tampering with the witnesses by the
 accused during the period he was on bail." 32. Thus when the gravity of the offence alleged is severe,

 mere long incarceration in jail as under-trial is not sufficient ground to

 enlarge an accused on bail if the facts & circumstances of the case

 and interest of the society do not warrant for enlarging the accused- applicant on bail. The present is an economic offence. The economic

 offences are considered grave offences as they affect the economy of

 the country and such offences are to be viewed seriously. In such type

 of offences, while granting bail, the Court has to keep in mind, inter ::: Downloaded on - 06/12/2025 00:16:31 :::CIS ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 27 alia, the larger interest of public and the State. The nature and

 seriousness of an economic offence and its impact on the society are

 . always important considerations in such cases. 33. Thus, in view of the above stated authoritative

 pronouncement of law laid down by the Apex Court, considering the

 prima facie involvement of the petitioner in commission of the

 of
 economic offence of huge magnitude in furtherance of the criminal

 conspiracy, merely because of the fact that the petitioner is in custody
 rt
 since 17.03.2025, this Court does not deem it appropriate to enlarge

 him on bail at this stage. Moreover, at this stage, in case the petitioner

 is enlarged on bail, he may flee from justice as the main accused

 Subhash Sharma has absconded and fled to Dubai. 34. Hence, for the reasons mentioned above, the bail

 application filed by the petitioner is dismissed. 35. Before parting with this order, it is hereby clarified that the

 aforesaid observations made in this order have been made only for the

 purpose of considering the present bail application. Therefore, the

 same shall not come in the way of the trial court at the time of the trial

 and the trial Court concerned shall not be influenced by the

 observations made hereinabove. ( Sushil Kukreja )
 Judge
 3rd December, 2025
 (raman) ::: Downloaded on - 06/12/2025 00:16:31 :::CIS ( 2025:HHC:41619 ) 28 . of
 rt ::: Downloaded on - 06/12/2025 00:16:31 :::CIS