1. Present revisional application has been directed for quashing the

proceeding including charge-sheet No. 354/16 dated 27.10.2016 under Sections 406 / 409 / 420 of the Indian Penal Code which has arisen out of

Burwan Police Station Case No.282/14 dated 26.06.2014 corresponding to

G.R. Case No. 1340/14. 2. The allegation levelled is that opposite party no.1 Dipayan Dey had given

loan of Rs.12 lakhs to one Jiaul Rahaman (one of the co-accused persons in

the aforesaid proceeding). Jiaul issued a cheque of Rs.6,90,000/- to make part

payment out of the aforesaid loan amount Rs.12 lakhs. The cheque was a post 2 dated cheque drawn upon HDFC Bank, Baguihati Branch. The said cheque

was handed over to opposite party no. 1 pursuant to a written agreement on

20.03.2014. Two days thereafter, the accused Jiaul lodged a general diary

being 1225 dated 22.03.2014 with the Burwan Police Station and intimated

about loss of said cheque on 22.03.2014. Dipayan i.e. O.P. No.1 deposited the

said cheque to his banker on 17.04.2014 and the cheque was honoured and

was intimated by the bank. Jiaul was similarly informed by the bank since

both Jiaul and O.P. No.1 maintained their respective accounts in HDFC bank

though in different branches. After the deposit of said amount of

Rs.6,90,000/- in the account of O.P. No.1, in terms of aforesaid cheque, Jiaul

intimated the Baguihati Branch of the bank about the alleged loss of the

aforesaid cheque and on enquiry Jiaul produced the said GD entry slip being

No.1225 dated 22.03.2014 to the bank and requested the bank to reverse the

deducted amount to his account. 3. It is submitted on behalf of the petitioner that the bank asked Jiaul to

inform the bank in writing about alleged loss of aforesaid cheque and

accordingly Jiaul informed the bank about the alleged loss of cheque, in

writing and after getting the said writing from Jiaul, bank reversed the entire

amount from the account of the informant/ opposite party no. 1 to the account

of accused Jiaul. 4. Mr. Sekhar Bose Learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the

petitioner submits that the petitioner was the Branch Manager of Baguihati

Branch at the relevant point of time. During investigation the enquiry officer

wrote a letter to the bank about the role of Branch Manager in the aforesaid

transaction. HDFC Bank Limited replied to the letter of the enquiry officer by a 3 letter dated 20.08.2016 that Branch Manager has no role to play in passing

credit and debit entries in the account of customers of the bank. 5. Mr. Bose, learned advocate further submits that O.P. No.1 Dipayan Dey

filed an application before the learned District Consumer Disputes Redressal

Forum, Berhampore, Murshidabad which was registered as complaint Case No.

CC/55/2014 against the Branch Manager of HDFC Bank and in that

application, opposite party no. 1 prayed for payment of Rs.6.9 lakhs with

compensation of Rs.50,000/- and Rs.25,000/- for harassment. But learned

District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum was pleased to dismiss the claim

of the O.P. No.1 by an order dated 24.11.2016. 6. It is submitted on behalf of the petitioner that from the letter dated

02.06.2014 written by Bank to S.I. of Baguihati P.S. as asked for by their letter

dated 25.05.2014, Bank immediate after getting auto generated SMS as to

debit of the disputed amount with the allegation of misplaced and fraud

relating to the impugned cheque and thereafter on verification, Bank got

discrepancy in the rubber stamp of the principal accused Jiaul company used

on the disputed cheque having a gap in the word "ARINRICE" as "ARIN" with

gap "RICE" and seeing this discrepancy the bank reversed the amount to

safeguard the financial interest of their account holder and Consumer Forum

also satisfied with this explanation given by bank and was pleased to dismiss

the proceeding. 7. In the present proceeding after completion of the investigation, charge-

sheet has already been submitted under Sections 406 / 419 / 420 of the Indian

Penal Code against two accused persons including the present petitioner. It is

submitted that learned ACJM, Kandi took cognizance of the offence after 4 submission of charge-sheet and after supplying the necessary copies to the

petitioner in terms of Section 207 of the Code. 8. Mr. Basu further submits that the petitioner is the victim of

circumstances and the principal accused Jiaul played fraud on the petitioner

as well as on the bank. Practically, Jiaul arranged the documents with an

intention to cheat the O.P. No.1 as well as to defraud the bank. Therefore, the

inference under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code with regard to the

intention and knowledge from ab initio is conspicuously absent in the case of

present petitioner. He further submits that this is evident from the fact, when

the cheque was honoured, the bank intimated both Jiaul and O.P. No.1 since

both were maintaining their respective accounts in HDFC Bank and confirmed

about the said transaction and, therefore, the neutral role on the part of the

bank is unquestionable. Accordingly, ingredients of Section 420 of the Indian

Penal Code are not applying against the present petitioner and the petitioner is

duty bound to the act on the basis of circumstances which was placed before

him. In the present case, petitioner who was the Branch Manager at the

relevant time was deceived by the presentation of the document by Jiaul and

he had no other option but to act upon the same. The bank has followed the

formalities for cancelling the transaction by demanding a written request from

Jiaul, which Jiaul had placed before the bank. Mr. Bose further submits that Section 409 of the Indian Penal Code is also not applicable in the present

context as being Bank Manager petitioner is duty bound to protect the account

of his customers and exactly what he did here in good faith. Moreover, bank

got discrepancy in the rubber stamp of Jiaul's company's name on the

disputed cheque and then the amount was reversed to safeguard the financial 5 interest of their account holder and the Consumer Forum rightly observed that

there is no foul play on the part of the bank or the Branch Manager. 9. Mr. Madhusudan Sur, learned advocate appearing on behalf of the State

placed the case diary and submits that sufficient incriminating materials have

been collected by the I.O. during investigation against both the accused

persons which goes to show that there is a deep rooted conspiracy in between

the Bank Manager and accused Jiaul in misappropriating the

complainant/O.P. No.1's money from the bank account. During investigation,

police had collected one acknowledgement where Jiaul has stated that he has

handed over the cheque towards part payment against loan of Rs.12 lakhs,

mentioning the cheque number on 20.03.2014. Subsequently on 22.03.2014

with criminal intention he lodged general diary to the O/C., Burwan Police

Station contending that said cheque has been lost from his custody. So, there

is sufficient reason to believe that from the very inception it was in the mind of

the accused persons to cheat the de facto complainant. Moreover, the

investigation has already been ended and charge-sheet has been submitted

and at this stage it would not be proper to quash the entire proceeding against

the petitioner at the threshold, when on the basis of material, prima facie

offence has been disclosed against the present petitioner. 10. It is also submitted on behalf of the State that under Section 60 of the

Negotiable Instrument Act read with Section 23(3) of the Payment and

Settlement Act, 2007, a settlement effected under such procedure shall be final

and cannot be further negotiable and as such the petitioner has clearly

committed offence in violating aforesaid provisions of law. 6 11. Mr. Sur on behalf of state further submits that conspiracy is apparent

from the fact that HDFC Bank did not find any foul play in the cheque and

successfully transferred the amount in the account of complainant but after

settlement the bank found the discrepancy in rubber stamp about the

company's name on the disputed cheque. If discrepancy in the rubber stamp

appearing on the cheque is the cause of retransfer then, Bank would not have

credited said amount at all in favour of complainant. 12. Needless to say in view of the land mark judgement of Apex Court in State of Haryana vs. Bhajan Lal , reported in 1992 SCC (Cri) 426. The Apex

Court has categorized the cases by way of illustration wherein the power under

Article 482 Cr.P.C . could be exercised either to prevent the abuse of the

process of the court or otherwise to rescue the ends of justice. In Para 102 &

103 it is observed:- 13. I have carefully perused the materials in the case diary including written

complaint and the statements recorded under Section 161 of Cr.P.C., it has

been specifically alleged in the written complaint that the complainant is under

firm belief that Bank Manager in collusion with Jiaul Rahaman had defrauded

the O.P. No.1. It also appears from the statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that all the witnesses have specifically alleged that the Bank Manager

along with Jiaul had practiced fraud upon O.P. No.1 in retransferring the said

amount in the credit of Jiaul. In the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the

case whether in committing retransfer of entire amount in the credit of Jiaul

the petitioner had acted innocently and / or in terms of banking rules or it was

done with criminal intention which existed from the very beinging and whether

the petitioner has violated the relevant provisions of Negotiable Instrument

Act and /or Payment of Settlement Act, 2007 in making conspiracy with 8 principal accused Jiaul, can only be decided if the parties face the trial to

answer the charge likely to be brought against them but High Court is not

supposed to conduct mini trial to unearth the truth while disposing petition

under section 482 of the code written complaint and materials collected by

the investigating agency discloses prima facie cognizable offence against the

present petitioner in view of apparent violation of statutory provisions as

pointed out by prosecution, stated above and if there was discrepancy in

company's name in the rubber stamp, but signature does not differ and

amount was cleared then what prompted present petitioner afterwards to

retransfer the amount without verifying the cause. So in the absence of any

prima facie reason to believe that there was any animosity in between the

petitioner and O.P. No.1 for which O.P. No.1 could have lodged false complaint

in order to harass the petitioner, I am not of the view following the ratio laid

down in Bhajanlal's case (supra), that present case is a fit case where

proceeding can be quashed invoking power under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. 14. Accordingly CRR 2008/2019 stands dismissed. Connected applications

also accordingly disposed of. 15. However there will be no order as to costs. Urgent photostat certified copies of this order may be delivered to the learned

Advocates for the parties, if applied for, upon compliance of all formalities. (AJOY KUMAR MUKHERJEE, J.)