DAVINDER NATH LOHTIA vs SUNIL KUMAR MEHTA

CC NO: 9832/2019 P. S. JANAK PURI
U/s 138 NI Act a CNR No. of the case : DLSW020120732019

 b Date of institution of the case : 13.02.2014
 c Cheque number and dated 373795 and 105415 dt. 23.11.2013
 and 07.12.2013 respectively

 d Cheque amount : Rs. 4,00,000/- and Rs. 72,000/-
 e Name of the complainant : Davinder Nath Lohtia,
 S/o Late Sh. Yog Raj Lohtia,
 R/o A-2/5, Janak Puri, Delhi - 58. f Name of the accused and his : Sunil Kumar Mehta
 s/o S.B. Mehta
 parentage
 r/o C-271, 2nd floor, Vikas Puri,
 Delhi - 18. also at:- and the accused promised to repay the same. 4. In order to discharge of his liability, the accused had issued cheques
bearing no. 373795 and 105415, dt. 23.11.2013 and 07.12.2013 of Rs. 4
lacs and Rs. 72,000/- drawn on Punjab National Bank in favour of the
complainant and assured the complainant that the same will be encashed
on its presentation. 5. On the assurance of the accused, the complainant presented the
abovesaid cheque for encashment with his bank i.e. but the said cheque
was dishonoured and returned unpaid with remarks "funds insufficient" 6. The complainant had sent a legal notice dated 07.01.2014 to the
accused through his counsel regarding the dishonour of the aforesaid
cheque through registered AD & speed post which was delivered to the
accused and therefore, the present complaint is filed by the complainant
against the accused for the offence under Section 138 of the NI Act. 7. On being satisfied of the prima facie ingredients of Section 138 of
the NI Act, cognizance was taken and summons were directed to be issued
against the accused vide order dated 20.03.2014. 8. Accordingly, notice under Section 251 Cr.PC r/w Section 263(g) Cr.P.C was left to be framed at that time and substance of the accusation
was explained by the predecessor to the accused and to which he pleaded
not guilty and claimed trial and accused was granted opportunity to file
application u/s 145(2) NI Act. After considering the fact that matter is
pending since 2014 and accused has contested the matter for a long period,
suggest that accused was aware of the accusation/charge/matter and has
not suffered any injustice. Moreover, undersigned is of view that NI cases
are techincal offences and notice, if not framed, shall not vitiate the
proceedings. Also, the accused has not challenged the said lapse during
the entire proceedings and framing of notice is a procedural aspect and
procedure is handmade of justice. 9. It is held by hon'ble High Court of Delhi in a matter reported as 264
(2019) DLT 493 NITIN GUPTA VA AKASH METAL INDUSTRIAL that
framing of notice for the offence u/s 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act is
not mandatory. Digitally
 signed by
 SNEHIL
 SNEHIL SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 10. In Complainant's evidence, the complainant (CW-1) tendered
his evidence affidavit in post summoning evidence and relied upon the
following documents: 11. CW1/complainant was not cross examined on behalf of accused and
their opportunity was closed on 16.02.2018. Even the application of the
accused, u/s 311 Cr.P.C . for recalling of the complainant for cross
examination was dismissed on 09.01.2020. 12. CW2/Assistant Manager, Indian Bank, SFS Branch, Janakpuri was
examined during PSE and he deposed that he had brought the summoned
record pertaining to cheques bearing no. 373795 and 105415 with
returning memo dt. 24.12.2013 which is exhibited as Ex.CW2/1 (colly.).
The cheques in question were returned with remarks funds insufficient.
Thereafter, CE was closed on 16.02.2018. 13. The accused was then examined under Section 313 Cr.P.C., 1973
wherein all the incriminating evidence were put to the accused and accused
stated that he had not issued the cheques in question towards any legally
enforceable liability, both cheques are fake. He had not filled the name and
dates of said cheques. He had denied receiving of any legal notice. He
further deposed that he had not taken any loan from the complainant. He
does not owe the complainant any amount. The complainaint used to run
chit fund committee and had taken the cheques in question as security. He
had given the cheques in question in the year 2011-12 after filling the
amount in the cheques and after signing the same. The other details in the
cheques in question are not filled by him. Complainaint did not give him
any payments as had been promised by the complainaint and did not even
return him his cheques. The complainant after lapse of two years presented
the cheques in question in the bank without intimating him about the same.
He had no liability towards the complainant as alleged in the present case. Digitally
 signed by
 SNEHIL
 SNEHIL SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 14. Accused has examined himself as DW1. He has deposed that
the complainant used to run a committee and was engaged in money
lending business in Anand Parvt, Gali No. 10 in the year 2012. He was
introduced to the complainant through of his relative who used to reside in
Rampura, Delhi. He also subscribed to the committees being run by the
complainant. Complainant used to take blank cheques as a security
towards contribution payable towards committee. He had also given 5-6
blank signed cheques to the complainant. He used to run 5-6 PG hostels in
North Delhi (2528, Hudson Line, 2099 Autumn lane and G 14, Vijay
Nagar). Complainant visited his PGs and expressed his desire to become
his partner in the year 2012-2013. He agreed to the same. On one occasion,
complainant invested Rs.2.5 lakhs in his business for purchase of furniture.
Complainant's total contribution in his business would be around Rs.2.5
lakhs only. Nothing was reduced in writing pertaining to this partnership. 15. It is also deposed that complainant had made some entry on a piece
of paper on which both of us had affixed signatures, however, this paper
was not provided to him and was retained by the complainant himself.
Thereafter he started incurring losses in PG business. Rent from students
used to be collected by the complainant. Complainant never gave him any
share from the rent collected from the students. They had a capacity of 40
students in a building however, in 2012-2013 only 20 students had
occupied the buildings, therefore, we could not pay the rental amount for
the buildings. Complainant also stopped his entire cooperation in the
partnership and he demanded that accused should return back the money
invested by complainant for purchase of furniture. He told him that he was CC NO. 9832/2019 Davinder Nath Lohtia vs Sunil Kumar Mehta Page 6 of 25 Digitally
 signed by
 SNEHIL
 SNEHIL SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 16. DW1 was cross examined on behalf of the complainant. During
cross examination, DW1 has deposed that he had done B.A, in the year
2012, he had a business of lubricants and he also used to run PGs. He had
done PGs business from 2010-2014/2015. He had to close the business
because the complainant stopped supporting the business and his expenses
increased his income from the business. It is admitted that he was incurring
losses in his business. He knew the complainant since 2012 through Sh.
Rajiv Mahajan, Sh. Bitto Mahajan, Sh. Anil Mahajan (relatives of
complainant). DW1 was confronted with cheques in question Ex. CW1/A
& Ex. CW1/B and DW1 stated that with respect to Ex. CW1/A he said that
only signatures were of his and with respect to Ex. CWI/B the amount in
words has been filled by him and it bears his signatures. 17. DW1 was not be allowed to join the committee without issuing
blank signed cheque. He, his son, his wife and his friend Deepak had asked
multiple times in the year 2014 that these cheques be returned to him. He
had also filed a case against him under Section 138 NI Act through his
brother. He did not take any legal steps (filing any police complaint,
sending any legal notice or the like) to get back the cheques given by him
to the complainant. He requested the Mahajan community to ask the
complainant to return his cheques but they did not do so instead they sent
bouncers to beat DW1. Digitally
 signed by
 SNEHIL
 SNEHIL SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 18. He could not tell whether or not he was having any documentary
proof that he visited the Mahajan community. He had made a police
complaint when bouncers had come to beat him. He had called at 100
number in 2012-2013. DW1 again said I had called 100 number in
September/October, 2014. The bouncer had thrcatened him at his residence
and left thercafter he called on 100 number. He had accompanied the
police officials to the office of the complainant where the bouncers flew at
once upon seeing the police officials. Police had registered a complaint but
he did not follow up afterwards. He could not tell whether or not he was
having any proof of this call on 100 number or the police complaint made
subsequently. He had no documentary proof that he had given cheques in
question as security cheques. 19. It is also deposed that the committee was in the name of Lohtia
Group. He does not know whether or not this committee was registered or
not. He could not tell whether or not he had any documentary proof that
shows existence of Lohtia Group. DW1 voluntarily stated that anybody ask
about Gali No. 10, Anand Parvat. They would tell about Lohtia Group,
there used to be 20 members in each committee, Rajiv Mahajan, Anil
Mehta, Gouri Shankar, Amarjeet Singh, Suraj, Akshay Mehta (my son),
Aarti Mehta (my daughter) used to be some of the members of the
committee. He could not tell off hands the name of remaining members of
the committee. He had no documentary proof regarding this. DW1
voluntarily stated that no documentary proof is given in any committee. 20. It is further deposed that details are maintained in a register.
Partnership between him and complainant was unregistered. It was
executed on a Rs.10/- stamp paper. He had no bills pertaining to furniture CC NO. 9832/2019 Davinder Nath Lohtia vs Sunil Kumar Mehta Page 8 of 25 Digitally
 signed by
 SNEHIL
 SNEHIL SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 21. It is further deposed that he does not remember when the name of
the complainant was added in Aanchal PG. He could not tell whether or
not he could bring documentary proof regarding registration of Aanchal
PG in the name of complainant. DW1 volunatrily stated that he could try
to apply for a copy of the same. He had not brought documents pertaining
to rcgistration of Aachal PG. DW1 voluntarily stated that he had it but he
had not brought it, Mere pas padha hai meh lana bhul gaya. He used to
reside on the address mentioncd in the legal notice Ex.CWI/D. DW1 had
denied all the suggestions put to him during cross examination. 22. DW2/Akshay Mehta was examined on behalf on accused and he
deposed that he is the son of accused. Accused and complainant used to be
good friends. The complainant Sh. Davinder Nath Lohtia used to run a
committee/ chit fund business in the year 2011/2012 from his office at Gali
No.9, Anand Parvat Delhi. The accused and the complainant had started a
paying guest business in the year 2011/2012. They had taken a building on
rent i.e. G-14, Vijay Nagar, New Delhi and made 20 rooms to be given as
accommodation for students. This PG was run in a partner business
between the complainant and the accused. Both the parties i.e. the
complainant and accused had contributed around Rs.3-4 lacs as investment
in the partnership. This business lasted for around 6-7 months only since
the complainant could not attend to the business diligently. Both the CC NO. 9832/2019 Davinder Nath Lohtia vs Sunil Kumar Mehta Page 9 of 25 Digitally
 signed by
 SNEHIL
 SNEHIL SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 23. The name of the PG was Anchal PG Accommodation for girls
committee being. His father i.e. accused had subscribed to two committees
run by the complainant, one for Rs.2 lacs and the other for Rs.4 lacs, The
complainant had taken security cheques from the accused in connection
with these committees. The complainant refused to bear the loses sustained
in partnership business and demanded that the accused repay him with
investment made in the partnership. The complainant misused the security
cheques given for the committee business to file a false case against the
accused to recover the investment made by him in the partnership. The
accused had given two cheques as security to the complainant. The
complainant has filed two cases against the accused. 24. DW2 was then cross examined on behalf of complainant and he
deposed that he knew the complainant Sh. Davinder Nath Lohtia. He never
visited the residence of the complainant. He used to visit his ofice for
payment of committee installments. He could not tell the exact address of
complainant offfice although he knew its location in Gali No.9, Anand
Parvat. DW2 was asked that the office of complainant was in Gali No.10, CC NO. 9832/2019 Davinder Nath Lohtia vs Sunil Kumar Mehta Page 10 of 25 Digitally
 signed by
 SNEHIL
 SNEHIL SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 25. The partnership between the complainant and accused was neither
registered nor documented. It was an oral partnership. He does not have
any proof to show that such a partnership existed. DW2 was shown Mark
DW2/1, Mark DW2/2 and Mark DW2/3 and asked whether the name of
the complainant is mentioned anywhere in these documents. He replies in
the negative after perusing the documents. 26. He could not bring any proof to show that the complainant was in
any manner involved with the Anchal PG business. He voluntarily stated
that its a very old matter. He does not have any proof to show that the
cheques in question were given as sccurity cheques to the complainant for
committee business. He never sent any legal notice to the complainant
with respect to misused of the cheques in question. His father may have
sent it. He never asked the complainant to return the cheques of his father.
His father might have asked him. DW2 had denied all suggestions put to
him. 27. DW3/Dharmesh Bansiwal was examined on behalf of the accused
and he deposed that he knew the accused as he used to be friend of CC NO. 9832/2019 Davinder Nath Lohtia vs Sunil Kumar Mehta Page 11 of 25 Digitally
 signed by
 SNEHIL
 SNEHIL SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 28. In the year 2011, the accused had taken a PG at G-14, near Khalsa
College, Vijay Nagar, Near Delhi University and opened the said PG with
the name and style of Aanchal PG. In that PG, both complainant and
accused had mutually invested a total sum of Rs.6-7 lakhs in the said PG.
However, the PG which run for 6 to 7 months run into losses and both
complainant and accused suffer losses to the extent of approximately 3
months each. The cheques were given by the accused 2 to 3 days prior to
the initiation of the committee run by the complainant. The present case is
filed to cover the loss incurred by the complainant in the PG was jointly
run business which by the complainant with the accuscd. No amount is due
upon the accused to be due to the complainant. 29. DW3 was cross examined on behalf of accused and he deposed that
the accused was his uncle as he used to be friend of his deceased tather. He
does not have any proof with respect to PG business run by the accused
and the complainant. He used to go to the said PG alongwith his father to
meet the accused. He used to ocassionally meet the complainant on his
visit to the said PG. He does not have any proof to show that he used to CC NO. 9832/2019 Davinder Nath Lohtia vs Sunil Kumar Mehta Page 12 of 25 Digitally signed by SNEHIL SNEHIL SHARMA
 Date: 30. The accused had told him that he had given 2-3 cheques prior to the
initiation of the committee. Whatever he was deposing that day, some of
them were told to him by the accused and some of them he had witnessed
himself. He voluntarily stated he had himself witnessed that the accused
was running PG business with the complainant and that the complainant
was running committee the business and also he uscd to make the
instlaments on behalf of the accused to complainant. He does not have any
proof to show that he used to make the instalments on behalf of the
accused to the complainant. DW3 has denied all the suggestions put to
him. Thereafter, DE was closed and final arguments were heard. 31. It has been argued by Ld. Counsel for the complainant that case of
the complainant is proved and cheque is also in the favour of the
complainant, therefore, accused must be convicted and amount should be
recovered. On the other hand, Ld. Counsel for accused has argued that
accused has been falsely implicated in this case and that complainant has
not been able to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt against the
accused. Digitally
 signed by
 SNEHIL
 SNEHIL SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 32. I have heard ld counsel for the complainant and Ld. Defence
counsel for accused & considered the respective arguments as well as gone
through case file very carefully. 33. The essential ingredients in order to attract Sec. 138 of NI Act, 1881
are as following: 34. Now, coming to the facts of the present complaint case keeping in
view the essential ingredients of section 138 of NI Act. In this case,
Accused in statement of accused had denied signature on cheque in
question as well as other particulars being filled by him. It is stated by the
accused that he had not issued the cheque and had filled the same and both
the cheques are fake. Perusal of the reason on returning memo shows that
both the cheques were returned being funds insufficient and these
documents speak for itself and accused has not challenged those bank
returning memos. Accused has not called bank witness for challenging and CC NO. 9832/2019 Davinder Nath Lohtia vs Sunil Kumar Mehta Page 14 of 25 Digitally signed by SNEHIL SHARMA SNEHIL Date: rebutting these returning memos. If it was the case of fake cheques then
reason for returning memo should be something else and not the funds
insufficient. Funds insufficient shows that the cheques are real and same
were considered being duly signed by the signatory and thereafter it was
processed for clearing. In this case, as accused's name is imprinted on the
cheque and cheque has been processed and found insufficient balance in
the account of the accused, shows that accused has signed these cheques
and was not having sufficient balance in his account. No proof is brought
by the accused to show that he was having sufficient balance and these
returning memos are falsely created. It is pertinent to mention to here that
accused has not denied the account number and his name mentioned on the
cheque. Even, no FSL examination application is filed to prove the cheque
false. Therefore, it can be said that the cheque was drawn by him in favour
of the complainant. Therefore, the essential ingredient (i) as discussed in
the preceding paragraph stands fulfilled. In the same sense, it will be
deemed as accused has admitted the fact of dishonour of the cheque in
question, hence, another essential ingredients (iii) and (iv) also stand
proved by the complainant. 35. Accused has denied the fact of receiving the legal demand notice
sent to him by complainant during his statement of accused. As a defence
witness accused has admitted that he used to reside at the address
mentioned in legal notice. Perusal of record shows that the legal notice
was served at the address of the accused and accused has not challenged
the discrepancies in delivery, if any. Moreover, the address mentioned on
the legal notice is the same which is mentioned by the accused on bail
bond. Also as the accused has appeared before the court and matter came
in his knowledge and documents were supplied to him after summoning,
still accused chose not to reply back the legal notice or to pay the due CC NO. 9832/2019 Davinder Nath Lohtia vs Sunil Kumar Mehta Page 15 of 25 Digitally
 signed by
 SNEHIL
 SNEHIL SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 36. In the landmark decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in
matter of " C. C. Alavi Haji Vs. Palapetty Mohd. & Anr. " reported in
(2007) 6 Supreme Court Cases 555 held that as under:- 37. Now coming to the last and the remaining core ingredients (ii) and (vii) of Section 138 of NI Act as discussed above and the real issue of
controversy herein i.e. whether the cheque in question was issued in
discharge of any debt or liability, whole or in part and whether the same is
a legally enforceable debt. 38. In this case, the statutory presumptions under section 118(a) and 139 would be raised in favour of the complainant, as it is found that signature
on the cheque is of accused and accused has executed the cheque. The
aforementioned statutory presumptions would be raised in favour of the
complainant regarding the fact that the impugned cheques have been
drawn for consideration and issued by the accused in discharge of legally
enforceable debt. SNEHIL SHARMA
 Date: 39. It has been held by a three-judge bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court
in the case of Rangappa vs. Sri Mohan (2010) 11 SCC 441 that the
presumption contemplated under Section 139 of NI Act includes the
presumption of existence of a legally enforceable debt. Once the
presumption is raised, it is for the accused to rebut the same by
establishing a probable defence. The principles pertaining to the
presumptions and the onus of proof were recently summarized by the
Hon'ble Apex Court in Basalingappa vs. Mudibasappa (2019) 5 SCC 418
as under: Digitally
 signed by
 SNEHIL
 SNEHIL SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 40. Perusal of the record shows that accused has not rebutted the case
proved by the complainant at any stage. There are several contradictions in
defence witness as well as defence taken at the time of statement of
accused. It is found that during DE, DW1 has stated that complainant's
total contribution in his business was around Rs.2.5 lacs, DW2 who is the
son of the accused has stated that both the parties complainant and acused
have contributed around Rs.3-4 lacs in partnership, DW3 stated that
complainant and accused had invested total Rs.6-7 lacs in the said PG.
Therefore, no defence witness corroborated each other with respect to the
defence that what was the share/amount invested by complainant in the
business of the accused, as alleged by the accused. 41. It is also found that DW1 has stated that complainant used to run a
committee at Gali no. 10, while DW2 has stated that complainant used to
run committee at Gali No. 9. This is also a relevant contradiction as this
defence of the accused is also not corroborated by his own witness and
accused has not proved this defence with some other evidence. 42. It is also found that accused himself has deposed during DE that
nothing was reduced in writting pertaining to the partnership but also
admit that some entry was made on piece of paper and that piece of paper
is retained by the complainant himself and not provided to him. DW1
stated that parternship between him and complainant was executed on
Rs.10 stamp paper but same was also not filed on record. DW2 i.e. son of
the accused also produced some document with respect to the business of
the accused and on confronting with these documents, he admits that he CC NO. 9832/2019 Davinder Nath Lohtia vs Sunil Kumar Mehta Page 18 of 25 Digitally
 signed by
 SNEHIL
 SNEHIL SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 43. Futhermore, it is also admitted by DW1 that they were in
partnership for 1 and half year but DW2 has contradicted DW1 and stated
that business lasted only for around 6-7 months. DW3 has also made the
similar statement that PG ran for only 6-7 months. Therefore, it cannot be
said that accused has raised a successful defence on this point also. 44. Also, accused has not brought any evidence to show that he, his son,
his wife, his friend Deepak had asked complainant multiple time in 2014 to
return these cheques. Same is denied by DW2 during cross examination
that he has never asked complainant to return the cheque of his father. It is
admitted by accused that he did not take any legal step to get back the
cheques from the complainat. He also deposed that he requested Mahajan
community to ask the complainant to return his cheque but no proof for the
same is also submitted by the accsued to suggest that he has contacted or
visited the Mahajan community. 45. In addition to this, no proof is brought by the accused that he has
called 100 number against the threatning by the bouncers of the
complainant. No proof is brought by the accused or his son DW2 to
suggest that there was a committee and these cheques were given as a
security in committee. DW2 himself had stated that he does not have any
proof to show that cheque in question was security cheque for committee
business. DW2 and DW1 themselves have stated that they do not have any
proof/ receipt with respect to the installment paid to the complainant, if CC NO. 9832/2019 Davinder Nath Lohtia vs Sunil Kumar Mehta Page 19 of 25 Digitally signed by SNEHIL SNEHIL SHARMA
 Date: 46. DW3 has stated that whatever he was deposing on the date of
evidence, some of them were told by the accused and some of them he had
witnessed himself. DW3 also stated that accused used to tell him about the
investment in PG business upon his visit to accused's home. DW3 admits
that he does not have any proof to show that he also made any installment
on behalf of the complainant to the accused. Therefore, the testimony of
DW3 is also of not much help to the accused. He is found to be a hearsay
and tutored witness. Therefore, all these statements are self destructive in
nature. Even the accused has not proved single version completely through
documentary or any other evidence. 47. It is also found that as per the complainant, accused approached the
complainant for financial help as accused was going through the hard time.
Same is corroborated by the accused's witness themselves by stating that
accused's PG business was running into loses and complainant invested
the amount. Similar is deposed by DW2 that business sustained the loss.
DW3 has also stated that PG business ran into the losses and all agrees that
complainant invested the amount. No one could prove that complainant
invested the amount directly in a partnership capacity and not provided the
financial help to the accused as a loan. 48. It is also found that neither any chat is produced by the accused
suggesting that amount was transferred to account of the complainant as
per the direction of the complainant or any message to the complainant. No
bank transfer /withdrawal etc. is shown by the accused to suggest the CC NO. 9832/2019 Davinder Nath Lohtia vs Sunil Kumar Mehta Page 20 of 25 Digitally signed by SNEHIL SNEHIL SHARMA
 Date: 49. As the complainant has proved his case, it is also on record that
even after filing a case the accused has not repaid the cheque amount to the
complainant and choose to contest the case. During the case, he has failed
to inform the ultimate date of the repayment. Also, no document or
witness or whatsapp chat is produced by the accused to prove the complete
repayment (whatsoever) to the complainant and showing nil/zero balance
against the accused. Further, no document or witness or whatsapp chat or
call recording etc. is produced by the accused in support of his contention
that complainant has misused the cheque. No complete repayment slip or
no complete repayment message or no digital record of clearing all the
dues towards the complainant is filed by the accused for the perusal of the
court and for his support. Even no reply of legal notice is sent by the
accused to the complainant. 50. Also perusal of record shows that cheque returning memo shows
that reason of returning the cheque "funds insufficient" and not "payment
stopped by drawer" . If there was no due towards the complainant and he
had not taken any receipt from the complainant for committee then also
accused was having opportunity to ask his cheque back from the
complainant, which he has not. 51. Accused has no where deposed that when and where he has made
the complete payment. No documentry proof/receipts of payments are
produced by the accused. Not even a single transaction or NOC is shown
by the accused to substantiate his defence. No bank withdrawal or witness
to the transaction is brought by the accused to prove that he has made the CC NO. 9832/2019 Davinder Nath Lohtia vs Sunil Kumar Mehta Page 21 of 25 Digitally
 signed by
 SNEHIL
 SNEHIL SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 52. No complaint or request or protest is filed by accused in the court
or police station against the complainant. Even no objection was raised
with the complainant or with the other members of the committee (as per
the accused there were 20 members in committee including the relatives of
the complainant). Even the accused could not dented the financial capacity
of the complainant. No plea of alibi is taken by the accused on the dates
deposed by the complainant. Accused could not bring any of the
committee member in witness box in his support. 53. No doubt is raised upon the story deposed by the complainant.
Non-discharge of the liability of cheque amount by the accused is not a
ground of acquittal without any evidence/witness/record etc. Mere verbal
submission of the accused is no evidence. 54. Also, accused had not shown any message or protest sent to the
complainant regarding the return of the cheque. No complaint to the
police or common known friends is made by the accused. Accused had
not proved that the cheque was not handed over to the complainant later
on, but at the time of taking of loan. Accused had not informed the court
regarding the date of visiting the complainant to demand back the cheque.
Even, accused had not challenged the loan amount and loan liability. There
exists no circumstances to create any doubt or confusion giving benefit of
doubt to the accused. It is necessary to mention here that no CC NO. 9832/2019 Davinder Nath Lohtia vs Sunil Kumar Mehta Page 22 of 25 Digitally signed by SNEHIL SNEHIL SHARMA
 Date: 55. On the aspects of preponderance of probabilities, the accused has
to bring on record such facts and such circumstances which may lead the
court to conclude either that the consideration did not exist or that its non
existence was so probable that a prudent man would, under the
circumstances of the case, act upon the plea that the consideration did not
exist. As per the facts and circumstances of this case accused has not led
any cogent and believable evidence to support his defence and has not
rebutted the presumption. 56. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Rohitbhai Jivanlal Patel vs State of
Gujarat and Another 2019) 18 SCC 106 and in various other rulings have
time and again, emphasized that though there may not be sufficient
negative evidence which could be brought on record by the accused to
discharge his burden, yet mere denial would not fulfil the requirements of
rebuttal as envisaged under section 118 and 139 of the NI Act. Further, it
has been held in Rajesh Agarwal v. State , 2010 SCC online Del 2501 that:- 57. Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in the judgment of Amit Jain vs Sanjeev
Kumar Singh & Anr. on 16 August, 2024 observerd that
 "17. We often find that acquittals in Section 138 NI Act
 proceedings place the burden of proving the existence of
 the debt on the complainant, which is diametrically
 opposite to the presumption placed on the accused under Section 139 NI Act. The accused often gets away with an CC NO. 9832/2019 Davinder Nath Lohtia vs Sunil Kumar Mehta Page 23 of 25 Digitally
 signed by
 SNEHIL
 SNEHIL SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 18. Presumption under Section 139 read with Section 118 of the NI Act is essentially based on pure common sense.
 Instead of having the accused prove to the contrary, the
 accused is acquitted, as in this case, without having led
 any defence evidence and purely relying upon the
 inconsistencies in the affirmative proof provided by the
 complainant. The law and its application, is therefore
 turned on its head. Conclusion" SNEHIL SNEHIL SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 2025.02.11
 16:52:50 +0530

Announced in Open Court (SNEHIL SHARMA)
today on 11.02.2025 JMFC (NI Act-08), SOUTH WEST
 DWARKA, DELHI

Copy of judgment be given free of cost to the convict.