1. The Applicant has filed this Application under Section 483
 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 for enlarging
 the Applicant on Regular Bail in connection with FIR being C.R.
 No.11201001250001 of 2025 registered with CID Crime
 Gandhinagar Zone Police Station, Gandhinagar. 2. Heard learned Advocate for the Applicant and learned APP
 for the Respondent - State. Rule. Learned APP waives service of notice of Rule on
 behalf of the Respondent - State. 3. Learned Advocate for the Applicant has submitted that the
 Applicant has good reputation in the society and no useful
 purpose would be served by keeping the applicant in jail for
 indefinite period. It is further contended that the applicant is
 ready and willing to abide by all the conditions that may be
 imposed by this Court if released on bail. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18960/2025 ORDER DATED: 30/09/2025

 undefined 4. Per contra, learned APP has opposed the present
 application for grant of regular bail contending that the present
 applicant was working as a Branch Manager of the complainant
 bank and without verifying the credentials of the other co-
 accused, had sanctioned the loan of huge amount to the other
 co-accused. The total fraud runs into more than Rs.64 crores.
 Learned APP has therefore submitted that looking to the nature
 of offence, this Court may not exercise the discretion in favour of
 the applicant and the Application may be dismissed. 5. Heard learned Advocates for the parties and perused the
 record. The investigation is over and charge sheet is filed. As per
 the case of the prosecution, the present applicant was working
 as a Branch Manager with the complainant bank and it is
 alleged against him that he had sanctioned the loans of huge
 amount without verifying the credentials for sanction of the said
 loan. As per the case of prosecution, the total fraud runs into
 more than Rs.64 crores. Having regard to these aspects and also
 the fact that the other co-accused has been considered for grant
 of bail, the Application deserves consideration. This court has
 also considered the following aspects: NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18960/2025 ORDER DATED: 30/09/2025

 undefined (c) That the Applicant is in custody since 01.05.2025. (d) The law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Sanjay Chandra v. C.B.I. Reported in (2012) 1 SCC 40. 6. Having heard the learned Advocates for the parties and
 perusing the record produced in this case as well as taking into
 consideration the facts of the case, nature of allegations, gravity
 of accusation, availability of the Applicant Accused at the time of
 Trial etc. and the role attributed to the present Applicant
 accused, the present Application deserves to be allowed and
 accordingly stands allowed. This Court has also gone through
 the FIR and police papers and also the earlier order passed by
 the learned Sessions Court where the learned Sessions Judge
 has disallowed the bail Application at initial stage. The Applicant
 Accused is ordered to be released on bail in connection with the
 aforesaid FIR on executing a personal bond of Rs.10,000/- with
 one surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial
 Court, subject to the following conditions that he shall: 7. Bail bond to be executed before the Trial Court having
 jurisdiction to try the case. It would be open for the Trial Court
 concerned to give time to furnish the solvency certificate if
 prayed for. 8. If breach of any of the above conditions is committed, the
 Trial Court concerned will be free to issue warrant or take
 appropriate action according to law. The Authorities will release
 the Applicant forthwith only if the Applicant is not required in
 connection with any other offence for the time being. 9. At the trial, the concerned trial Court shall not be
 influenced by the prima facie observations made by this Court in
 the present order. 10. Rule is made absolute. Direct service permitted. (M. R. MENGDEY,J)
 AHS Page 4 of 4 Uploaded by MR.AMIT HEMANTKUMAR SONAGARA(HCD0079) on Tue Sep 30 2025 Downloaded on : Tue Sep 30 23:34:58 IST 2025