Thiru S. Sambandam MEMBER 

 

  

 

 F.A. No. 740 / 2011 

 

  

 

(Against Order in C.C.506/2009, Dated 30-05-2011 

 

on the file of the DCDRF, Chennai [North]) 

 

 

 

 Dated this the 24th
day of MARCH, 2014 

 

  

 

  

 

Alpha and Omega Diagnostics (I) Ltd, ] 

 

No.53, Anand Apartments, ] 

 

Casa Major Road, ] 

 

Egmore, ] 

 

Chennai 600 008, ] 

 

Represented by its Authorised Signatory: ] Appellant / Complainant 

 

K. Dakshinamurthy ] 

 

  

 

Vs 

 

  

 

ICICI Bank Ltd, ] 

 

110, Nungambakkam High Road, ] 

 

Nungambakkam, ]
Respondent / Opposite 

 

Chennai 600 034 ]
 Party 

 

 

 

This appeal coming before us for final hearing on 26.02.2014
and on hearing the arguments of both sides and upon perusing the material
records, this Commission made the following Order: 2. The case of the complainant is that they
were having a Current Account with the opposite party bank, and they never
opted for online transaction; but on 21-8-2009, they came to know that a sum of
Rs.1,10,000/- had been transferred through online fund transfer from their
account to an account in State Bank of India, Mizzoram. They registered a
complaint with the opposite party bank at 10 am on 22-8-2009, but they did not
take immediate action to block the money from the State Bank of Mizzoram, and
due to their negligence and deficiency in service, the money was withdrawn at
the other end. Hence the complaint. 3. According to the opposite party, in
spite of repeated warnings given to its customers that they should not give
information like password, pin number and account details related to internet
banking to any other person, the complainant due to negligence divulged those
informations to a fraudster who contacted the complainant by phishing Email.
The averment of the complainant that the complainant never opted for any online
transaction is totally false in view of the fact that they availed online
transaction and carried out 6 online transactions on 27-3-2009, and 4 online
transactions on 30-3-2009. The complainant received a spam mail and they were
unaware that it was a phishing mail and had negligently responded to that mail
which caused the loss to the complainant, and the opposite party is in no way
responsible for the fund transfer. There is no deficiency in service on their
part. 4. The
District Forum considered the rival contentions and dismissed the complaint
holding that the unauthorized online transfer was possible only because of the
negligence on the part of the complainant in divulging confidential data and
that there is no deficiency in service on the part of the opposite party. 5. It is
pertinent to note that the appellant / complainant has made an averment in the
complaint that they never opted for any online transaction; whereas it is
substantiated by the opposite party bank that the complainant availed online
fund transfer, by producing the account statement of the complainant with
regard to the online transaction that took place for 4 times on 30-3-2009 which
is not disputed by the complainant, and as a matter of fact the complainant
availed the online transaction facility with the opposite party bank and carried
out 6 online transactions on 27-3-2009, and 4 online transactions on 30-3-2009,
and in the course of the online transactions, they parted with the information
about their user name, password, and credit details paving the way to 3rd
party to intrude into his account and transfer the amount unauthorisedly. Thus,
we find that the unauthorized fund transfer became possible only because of the
negligence on the part of the complainant in divulging confidential data to third
persons. We therefore find that the complainant is responsible for this
unauthorized online transfer from their account and the opposite party is in no
way responsible or liable for it. 6. The
District Forum has rightly held that there is no deficiency in service on the
part of the opposite party and has rightly dismissed the complaint. There is no
infirmity in the order of the District Forum and we agree with the finding and
the decision of the District Forum dismissing the complaint. 7. In the
result, the appeal is dismissed confirming the order of the District Forum
dismissing the complaint. No order as to costs in the appeal. (S. SAMBANDAM) (J. JAYARAM) 

 

 MEMBER 
PRESIDING JUDICIAL MEMBER