Since common question of law and facts are

involved in these two anticipatory bail applications, they

are decided by this common order. 2. Both the applicants are the Directors of M/S

BST Textile Mills Private Limited, IIE, Pantnagar, SIDCUL,

District Udham Singh Nagar (for short, "BST"). They were 2 issued summons under Section 70 of the Central Goods

and Services Tax Act, 2017 (for short, "the GST Act").

Both the applicants seek quashing of summons as well as

search made of their premises on 03.09.2020. They seek

anticipatory bail under Section 438 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, "the Code"). 3. Heard learned counsel for the parties and

perused the record. 4. The case, as revealed from the record, is that

the GST Intelligence received information of gross

irregularities, committed by the BST. A preliminary

enquiry was initiated. It was found that Input Tax Credit

(for short, "ITC") to the tune of ` 10 to 15 Crores were

availed by the BST on the basis of invoices, which were

forged and fabricated; supply of goods was shown on the

papers by generating forged e-bills, a paper trail was

prepared. It is, thereafter, the applicants were issued

summons under Section 70 of the GST Act. Admittedly,

the applicants did not appear pursuant to the summons

instead according to the learned counsel appearing for the

applicants, they replied the summons. The anticipatory

bail applications were moved, which were rejected by the

court of Sessions Judge. This Court, on 28.11.2020, 3 directed the applicants to appear before the respondent

no.3, Senior Intelligence Officer, GST Intelligence, New

Delhi on 01.12.2020. 5. It is submitted on behalf of the applicants that

pursuant to the directions of this Court the applicants

appeared, as directed. 6. This Court may like to note that today, the

anticipatory bail applications are finding their disposal

almost after two years. It is much delayed disposal. The

anticipatory bail applications should have been decided

much earlier but, then the Court leaves it as it. 7. Learned counsel for the applicants would

submit that the applicants are bonafide in their conducts.

The applicants have been following the GST laws. After

the directions of the Court, the applicants appeared

before the authorities; initially when summons were

received by the applicants, they duly replied the

summons to the authority. 8. Learned counsel would submit that the

applicants may not be held responsible for the act, which

was beyond their reach. It is argued that if the supplier is

absconding, the applicants may not, in any manner, be 4 held responsible. The applicants have been cooperating

with the authorities. It is two years since last time notices

were issued, thereafter notices were not issued. Therefore,

it makes out a case for anticipatory bail. 9. Learned counsel appearing for the GST

Intelligence/respondent nos.2 and 3 would submit that

the applicants have committed gross irregularities; they

have created paper trail so as to take undue ITC benefits

to the tune of ` 10 to 15 Crores; the internal investigation

of the department found gross irregularities; the further

interrogation of the applicants is necessary to investigate

this matter so as to reveal the truth; the applicants needs

to be confronted with the documents filed by them; the

documents were forged; photographs of drivers, offices

etc. were manipulated. Therefore, it is argued that it is

not a case fit for anticipatory bail. 10. During the course of hearing, reference has

been made to the judgment in the case of P.V. Ramana

Reddy vs. Union of India, Writ Petition No. 4764 of 2019

and connected matters, as decided by the Hon'ble

Telangana High Court. In the case of P.V. Ramana Reddy,

Hon'ble Telangana High Court had discussed the

provisions of Section 69, 70, 132 of the GST Act as well as 5 the scope of Article 226 of the Constitution of India and

Section 41A and other provisions of the Code. In fact,

reference to the judgment in the case of P.V. Ramanna

Reddy, which subsequently reached to the Hon'ble

Supreme Court ( P.V. Ramana Reddy vs. Union of India

and others , (2021)2 SCC 784) has also been made in the

case of Union of India vs. Sapna Jain Jain and others ,

(2021)2 SCC 782. 11. In the case of P.V. Ramana Reddy (supra), the

Hon'ble Telangana High Court discussed the scope of Article 226 of the Constitution of India and observed as

hereunder:- 12. In the case of Sapna Jain (supra) in para 3
referred the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
the case of P.V. Ramana Reddy (supra) as hereunder:- 13. Undoubtedly, liberty of an individual is one of

the most precious rights. The bail makes a balance

between the right of an individual and societal interest. In

a catena of decisions, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has laid

down the guidelines, as to what would be the

consideration in the matters of anticipatory bail. In

Siddharam Sitlingappa Mhetre vs. State of Maharashtra

and others, (2011)1 SCC 694, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

further culled up the factors that may be considered while

considering anticipatory bail applications (It has also been

referred to in the case of Sushila Aggarwal and others vs.

State (NCT of Delhi) and another, 2020 SCC OnLine SC 98). It is as hereunder:- 14. The court of Sessions rejected the anticipatory

bail application of the applicants. In the anticipatory bail 9 rejection order, the court of Sessions had extracted the

prosecution case as hereunder:- 15. During the course of arguments, learned

counsel for the GST Intelligence referred to the counter

affidavit filed by the respondent no.3. Under the caption,

"Brief Facts of the case", paragraph 10 (viii), reads as

under:- 16. In the same counter affidavit under the caption

of parawise reply reference has been made to para 6 (xix

to xx and xxv). The Court refrains to reproduce these

paragraphs, as such. In paragraphs 6 (xix to xx) inter alia

it records that that on 03.09.2020, a search was

concluded in the premises of the applicants and

Panchnama was prepared; initially statements of the

applicant Mukesh Kumar Tyagi was recorded, which was

duly signed by him and it is at his request, the another

date for investigation was fixed for 07.09.2020, of which, 11 notices were issued to him but, thereafter, he did not

appear and further notices were issued. Paragraph 6 (xxv)

of the counter affidavit under parawise reply inter alia

records that, "the fake/non-existent supplier firms of

the applicants were in fact creating paper trail by way

of issuing fake/bogus invoices.................................".

According to the counter affidavit of respondent nos.2 and

3 the applicants have not been joining the investigation

on the one pretext or the other. 17. The allegations against the applicants are

pertaining to undue taking advantage or ITC by fake and

fabricated documents. Gravity of offence, need for

interrogation, repeat offence, tampering with evidence are

also some of the considerations, which weigh in the mind

of the Court at the stage of considering anticipatory bail

application. The allegation against the applicant are much

serious. According to the GST Intelligence, preliminary

investigation confirms the allegations, which needs to be

further investigated. In view of these facts and

circumstances, this Court is of the view that the

applicants are not entitled to anticipatory bail.

Accordingly, the anticipatory bail applications are liable to

be rejected. 18. Both the anticipatory bail applications are

rejected. (Ravindra Maithani, J.)
 10.06.2022
Sanjay