1 W.P. No. 5663 (W) of 2019
 IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA
 Constitutional Writ Jurisdiction
 Appellate Side
 Nilanjana Kundu
 Vs.
 Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited & Ors. For the Petitioners : Mr. K.K. Bandopadhyay, Sr. Advocate
 Mr. Saptansu Basu, Sr. Advocate
 Mr. R.A. Agarwala, Advocate
 Mr. R. Dhara, Advocate
 Mr. R.K. Gupta, Advocate
 Ms. N. Pal, Advocate
 Mr. A.G. Mukherjee, Advocate

For the BPCL : Mr. Puspendu Chakraborty, Advocate
 Mr. D. Sen, Advocate

For the UOI : Mr. Partha Chakraborty, Advocate

Hearing concluded on : June 13, 2019

Judgment on : June 25, 2019

DEBANGSU BASAK, J.:- Clause 14G requires all registered applicants to apprise

themselves of the status of the applications on the designated web

portal. The petitioner has applied for new retail outlet dealership for the

location Mothbari. B.P.C.L. in its affidavit in opposition has stated

that, the petitioner was the sole eligible candidate in respect of such

location. The guidelines require B.P.C.L. to intimate the petitioner as to

the status of the application through e-mail/SMS to the e-mail

id/mobile number provided by the petitioner while registering on the

designated web portal. The petitioner has admitted receipt of SMS

dated January 1, 2019. The SMS dated January 11, 2019 is as

follows:- The SMS dated January 11, 2019 requires the petitioner to

submit documents/ISD within 10 days. It also requires the petitioner

to refer to the e-mail for details. The petitioner was therefore put on

notice by B.P.C.L. as to the status of the application of the petitioner

in terms of Clause 14E by SMS as well as e-mail. The petitioner did

receive the e-mail dated January 11, 2019. According to the

petitioner, the e-mail reached the spam box and therefore, the

petitioner did not notice the same. Clause 14E of the guidelines

requires B.P.C.L. to communicate the status of the application

through SMS/e-mail which B.P.C.L. did to the petitioner. B.P.C.L. is

not at fault in the e-mail reaching the spam box of the petitioner. An

e-mail reaches a spam box of a recipient on the recipient arranging

his/her e-mail facility in such manner that specified e-mails reach

the spam box. Both the parties in the selection process are required

to exercise due care. Petitioner ought to have exercised due care to 10 ensure that, e-mails sent by B.P.C.L. did not reach the spam box. In

any event, the petitioner could have checked the spam box to find out

receipt of the e-mail after receiving the SMS on January 11, 2019.

The second e-mail dated January 21, 2019 also reached the spam box

of the petitioner. The abject failure of the petitioner in exercising due

and reasonable care while dealing with the application does not vest

the petitioner with any right to have an extension of the time to

comply with the requisitions. The dictionaries relied on behalf of the petitioner explains the

word 'spam' to mean an irrelevant or unsolicited message sent over

the Internet, typically to the large number of users, for the purposes

of advertising, phishing, spreading malware, etc. Essentially, spam is

an unwanted e-mail usually an advertisement. However, the internet

facility enjoyed by any user, allows the user to classify mails into

different categories. An internet user, has the option of classifying

mails as spams or as regular e-mails. In any event, the internet user

has the option of checking the spam mail box to find out if, any of the

mails lodged therein are relevant for the user. It is the duty of the

user to check his mail box for both spam mail and otherwise. In the

present case, the petitioner as an applicant in the selection process 11 failed to exercise due care that the petitioner is expected to exercise in

normal circumstances in relation to her application particularly

when, the process of application and the process of informing the

petitioner as to the status of the application are prescribed to be done

On-line. It is the contention of the petitioner that, the word SMS/e-mail,

has to be understood that these are in conjunction with each other.

In other words, B.P.C.L. was obliged to inform the petitioner both by

SMS as well as by e-mail. B.P.C.L. not having done so, B.P.C.L. failed

to discharge its obligations in informing the petitioner within time.

Therefore, the petitioner cannot be faulted in not responding to the e-

mails within time. As noticed above, the guidelines particularly

Clause 14E requires B.P.C.L. to inform the petitioner as to the status

of the application through SMS/e-mail. Punctuation " / " was

interpreted in Barun Ghosh (supra). The interpretation was in the

context of Clause 23 of West Bengal Public Distribution System

(Maintenance and Control) Order, 2003 as amended by the

subsequent notification dated November 18, 2004. Clause 23 of the

2003 Order require the authorities to declare vacancy of a distributor

through public notification/advertisement. In the facts of that case, 12 although, two newspaper advertisements were published, it was an

admitted fact that public notification in the Official Gazette was not

made. In the facts of that case, the punctuation " / " was interpreted

to mean that, both public notification and advertisements were

mandatory in terms of Clause 23 of the 2003 Order. In that case,

declaration of vacancy in respect of a distributorship was involved.

Such declaration was required to made public. In such context, the

Court found that, the public at large should be notified of such

vacancy. Such was the requirement of Clause 23 of the 2003 Order.

In such context, particularly when the public at large was statutorily

required to be notified, the Court interpreted the user of the

punctuation " / " to mean that, the authorities were required to

publish notification in the Official Gazette as well as advertised the

vacancy in newspapers. In the present case, the guidelines require

the Oil Company to inform the petitioner. Public is not involved in the

process of the Oil Company informing an applicant. Oil Company is

not required to inform the public at large through the SMS/e-mail. It

is limited to the applicant. Barun Ghosh (supra) has also noted that,

the punctuation can be interpreted differently in different context. In

my view, the punctuation " / " will take the contour that the context 13 require. The present context does not mandate B.P.C.L. to issue both

SMS as well as an e-mail to the applicant. Any one of the two modes

would be sufficient. What is required is that the applicant should be

put on notice as to his/her status of the application. B.P.C.L. in the

facts of the present case discharged such an obligation. It is the contention of the petitioner that, Clause 14E (vii)

requires the candidature to be rejected under intimation. According to

the petitioner, such Clause should be read to mean that, a notice of

default is required to be given by B.P.C.L. whereupon, the petitioner

will have an opportunity to remedy the breach, if any. With respect,

Clause 14E (vii) cannot be interpreted as contended on behalf of the

petitioner. The selection process is time bound. Selection process

requires B.P.C.L. to inform the applicant as to the status of the

application. It requires B.P.C.L. to discharge obligations within

specified time. In the facts of the present case, B.P.C.L. did inform the

petitioner as to the status of his application. Such intimation was

given within the time stipulated. Petitioner had sufficient time to react

to such intimations. The petitioner was required to submit documents

and remit 10 per cent of the security deposit within the time

stipulated. Petitioner was given a notice with regard thereto. 14 Petitioner failed to react to such notice. Petitioner was given a

reminder to such effect on her failure. Petitioner failed to react to the

second e-mail dated January 21, 2019. Therefore, Clause 14E (vii)

stands complied with. Petitioner was given sufficient notices as

stipulated to comply with the requisitions. Petitioner despite receipt of

such notices, failed to react thereon. The contention that the e-mails

reached the spam box and therefore, the petitioner was prevented by

sufficient cause from not reacting cannot be accepted. In view of the discussions above, no relief can be granted to the

petitioner. W.P. No. 5663 (W) of 2019 is dismissed. No order as to

costs. Urgent certified website copies of this judgment and order, if

applied for, be made available to the parties upon compliance of the

requisite formalities. [DEBANGSU BASAK, J.]