The petitioner, while working as Manager, Inspection

 Centre at Kolkatta Office of the Indian Bank, was subjected to a

 disciplinary proceeding and subsequently, he was imposed a

 punishment of compulsory retirement by the Disciplinary Authority,

 opposite party no.4 vide order dated 15.05.2008 (Annexure-10),

 confirmed by Appellate Authority, opposite party no.3 vide order dated

 03.10.2008 (Annexure-12) and reaffirmed by Reviewing Authority,

 opposite party no.2 vide order dated 20.04.2009 (Annexure-14). 2 2. The short facts of the case, in hand, is that following a

recruitment process, the petitioner was appointed as an Officer of the

Indian Ban, a Nationalized Bank within the control of the Union of

India. Considering his efficiency and sincerity, he was promoted from

time to time. Finally he was promoted to Grade of Manager (Scale-II)

Officer Post on 12.10.1992 and his services were placed at Inspection

Centre of Bank at Kolkata. As Inspecting Manager, the petitioner has to

conduct inspection of various Branches under Kolkata Region under

whose jurisdiction Cuttack and Chhatrapur Branch come. The

petitioner was issued with a communication on 20.07.2006 stating that

he was given inspection work near his place of residence, i.e.

Bhubaneswar. Instead of staying at Bhubaneswar, he stayed at

Cuttack, Chhatrapur and Saudia branches during regular inspection

and submitted lodging bills, which was irregular. Therefore, he was

called upon to give explanation with regard to irregularity committed in

T.A. Bill dated 24.03.2006 within a period of seven days. In response

to said letter, the petitioner had replied on 24.07.2006 denying the

allegation and stated that he has not been instructed to stay at

Bhubaneswar while conducting inspection at Chatrapur, Cuttack and

Saudia. Therefore, he preferred to stay at hotels as per his eligibility

for smooth conduct and timely completion of the assigned job. Having

not satisfied with the explanation submitted, a letter was issued on

18.12.2006 stating, inter alia, that the matter has been investigated 3 into as per instruction of the higher authorities and it is observed that

irregularities have been committed in submission of TA bills as per

investigation reports. Therefore, he was again called upon to give

explanation within a period of seven days vide Annexure-3. In

response to the same, the petitioner also submitted his reply on

25.01.2007 reaffirming his contention raised earlier and also clarified

that during the period from 10.01.2006 to 22.02.2006, he stayed in

Hotel Neeladri, Mangalabag, Cuttack and submitted the bills with TA

bills which was claimed by the hotel from time to time and the same

was duly paid by him. He also further clarified that at Chhatrapur, he

stayed at Sri Venkateswara lodge from 23.02.2006 to 09.03.2006 and

paid the bills as claimed by the hotel. The room tariff, which he has

paid, was as per demand of the hotel and he was not aware of the

room tariff of various other rooms as stated in his letter itself.

Therefore, attribution made with regard to improper maintenance and

discrepancies in maintenance of register/records by hotel authority, he

was no way concerned for such maintenance and therefore, he cannot

be able to explain such irregularity, if any, committed by the hotel

authority. Without appreciating the explanation given by the petitioner,

he was issued with an article of charges dated 06.06.2007 vide

Annexure-5, which are as follows: It is stated that the petitioner has acted dishonestly and

wrongly claimed Rs.42,000/-, therefore, his above acts constituted

misconduct under Regulation 3 (1) of Indian Bank Officer Employees‟

(Conduct) Regulations 1976 ( in short, "Conduct Regulation, 1976").

Therefore, he had failed to take all possible steps to ensure and protect

the interest of the Bank and discharge his duties with utmost honesty,

integrity, devotion and diligence and do nothing which is unbecoming

of an Officer employee. As per Regulation 24 of the Regulations 1976,

breach of any of those regulations shall be deemed to constitute a

misconduct and punishable under Regulation 4 of Indian Bank Officer

Employees‟ (Discipline & Appeal) Regulations, 1976 (in short "Appeal

Regulation, 1976"). The petitioner has also been served with statement

of imputation basing on which the articles of charges were framed

enclosing the list of documents relied upon and he was called upon to 5 file his defence within a period of 15 days from the date of receipt of

the charge sheet. In response to the said letter, the petitioner

submitted his reply on 25.06.2007 vide Annexure-6 denying the

allegations and reiterating the earlier contention stating that he was

not in a position to explain the cause of discrepancies in maintenance

of Hotel Record/Register, if any. He had only ensured the entry of his

name in their register while he checked in to the hotel and paid the bill

as claimed according to their tariff after receipt of the bill. It has also

been stated that charge was framed on certain report with various

presumptions and assumptions and, he was being prejudiced when he

is totally innocent. Without being satisfied with the explanation

submitted, the Bank appointed one R. Chakrapani, Senior Manager as

Enquiry Officer, who had conducted the inquiry and submitted his

report on 24.03.2008, vide Annexure-7 with a conclusion that basing

on the documentary evidences produced in the enquiry, PO‟s brief,

defence brief and preponderance of probability, the charge/imputation

no.1 and charge/imputation no.2 are proved. The copy of the said

inquiry report has also been communicated to the petitioner calling

upon him to give further explanation. In response to the same, the

petitioner submitted his reply wherein it has been categorically

indicated that the inquiring authority had transgressed its limitation to

the extent that instead of burden of proving the charges being fallen

on the shoulder of the Management, the Enquiry Authority himself has 6 taken the responsibility and forgotten his role as a quasi-judicial

authority and acted as if he is the representative of the Management

and not an Enquiry Authority and he has travelled beyond the charge

sheet and has drawn the conclusion by his wild imagination and

suspicion and while drawing such conclusion, he has forgotten to

discharge duty within the parameters of law, inasmuch as, no

reasonable opportunity has been given to the petitioner to defend his

case in conformity with the provisions of law and explain the situation

in what circumstances the Enquiry Officer has came to such an

erroneous finding against the charge/imputation levelled against the

petitioner. But the Disciplinary authority without appreciating the fact

in proper prospective and reiterating the findings of the Enquiry Officer

imposed a penalty of compulsory retirement in terms of Regulation

4(h) of Appeal Regulation, 1976 vide order dated 15.05.2008,

Annexure-10. Against the said order of imposition of penalty by

Disciplinary Authority, the petitioner preferred an appeal before the

appellate Authority and the appellate authority also confirmed such

punishment stating that the Disciplinary Authority has imposed a

lenient penalty of compulsory retirement from service of the Bank,

although the case of the appellant-petitioner deserves enhancement of

penalty and accordingly, dismissed the appeal by confirming the

penalty of compulsory retirement imposed by the disciplinary

authority. Against such confirmation of punishment imposed by 7 disciplinary authority by the appellate authority, the petitioner filed an

application before the Reviewing Authority, who also reaffirmed the

same vide order dated 17.04.2009 (Annexure-14) without interfering

with the punishment of compulsory retirement imposed by the

disciplinary authority and confirmed/upheld by the appellate authority

and dismissed the review application. Hence this application. 3. Mr. P.K. Mohanty, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner

strenuously urged that the Enquiry Officer has not appreciated the

materials available on record and has relied upon the depositions of

the witnesses and also conclusion arrived at by the Enquiry Officer in

course of inquiry and stated that the deposition of the Hotel owners

has not been given due weightage by the Enquiry Officer. Had

weightage been given, then the Disciplinary Authority could not have

come to such a conclusion of imposing punishment of compulsory

retirement even though such facts have been disclosed before the

Enquiry Officer and reviewing authority, the same has not been

appreciated in proper perspective. Therefore, the imposition of penalty

being harsh and shockingly disproportionate, this Court should

interfere with the same. It is further urged that the petitioner having

started his career as Probationary Officer in 1983 and has rendered

unblemished service, due to some latches of the hotel authority on the

entries made in the hotel register with regard to payment of bills, the

petitioner should not have been imposed such a harsh punishment for 8 no mistake of his own. If some error was detected then the Bank

authority should have asked for refund of the said amount if at all they

felt that the bills submitted are fake, but his services could not have

been dispensed with. The petitioner has claimed the TA Bill as per his

eligibility and within the Regulations/Rules of the Bank as per the

expenses incurred by him. In addition to the same, it is urged that the

proceeding was also not conducted with strict adherence to

Rules/Regulations of the Bank, there is a gross violation of the

principle of natural justice. The findings have been arrived at by the

authority without any cogent reasons. Therefore, it is a case of no

evidence. Hence he seeks for quashing of the orders passed by the

authorities in Annexures-10, 12 and 14. It is further urged that this

court has got the territorial jurisdiction to entertain this application and

objection to that extent cannot sustain in the eye of law. To

substantiate his contention he has relied upon the judgments of the

apex Court in Navinchandra N. Majithia v. State of Maharashtra ,

AIR 2000 SC 296, OM Prakash Srivastava v. Union of India &

Ors., ( 2006) 35 OCR (SC) 154, Nirmala J. Jhala v. State of Gujarat

and another , AIR 2013 SC 1513, R. Mahalingam v. Chairman,

TNPSC and Anr. , AIR 2013 SC 2225, Union of India and Anr. V.

S.S. Ahulwalia , AIR 2007 SC 2952, Sudarsan Giri v. Union of India

& Ors., 109 ( 2010) CLT 426, State of Uttar Pradesh and another 9 v. Saroj Kumar Siha , ( 2010) 2 SCC 772, Roop Singh Negi v.

Punjab National Bank and Others , (2009) SCC 570. 4. Per contra Mr. S.K.Dey, learned counsel appearing for

opposite parties, strenuously urged that since there is a concurrent

finding of facts with regard to irregularities and illegalities committed

by the petitioner, this Court should not sit as appellate authority over

the orders passed by the fact finding authority and interfere with the

concurrent finding of facts and the scope of this court in exercise of

power of judicial review to interfere with the imposition of penalty

against the delinquent officer is very limited. It is further urged that

this Court has no jurisdiction to entertain this petition as the cause of

action arises while the petitioner was serving at Kolkata. Merely

because the inquiry was conducted so far as the petitioner‟s stay at

Cuttack and Chhatrapur hotels is concerned, that ipso facto cannot

confer a jurisdiction on this Court to hear this matter. It is further

urged that no procedural irregularity has been committed by the

authority while conducting the inquiry and there is no question of

violation of principles of natural justice in any manner. Assuming this

Court has jurisdiction to entertain this petition, on merits also this

Court cannot disturb the findings arrived at by the fact finding

authority in enquiry proceeding, subsequently by disciplinary authority,

appellate authority and reviewing authority. In order to substantiate

his case, he has relied upon the judgments of Supreme Court in Bank 10 of India v. T. Jogram , 2007 (5) Supreme 801, Paitrus Ekka v. The

State of Jharkhand & Ors. , (2010) 3 JLJR 135. 5. Considering the above facts pleaded by the parties and

after going through the records, the following issues emerge for

consideration. 6. Mr.S.K.Dey, learned counsel for the opposite parties

strenuously urged that while the petitioner was serving at Regional

Office, Kolkata, proceeding was initiated against him and therefore,

this Court has no jurisdiction to entertain this application. It is further

urged that merely because enquiry has been conducted at Cuttack and

Chhatrapur, that ipso facto cannot confer jurisdiction on this Court to

adjudicate the matter. He has referred to paragraph 6 of the judgment

in Paitrus Ekka (supra), which reads as follows : 7. Referring to the judgments of the apex Court in Aligarh

Muslim University v. Vinay Engineering Enterprises (P) Ltd. ,

( 1994) 4 SCC 710 (para-2), Oil and Natural Gas Commission v.

Utpal Kumar Basu , ( 1994) 4 SCC 711 (para-12) and Addl.General

Manager- Human Resource, Bharat Heavy Electrical Ltd. v.

Suresh Ramkrishna Burde , (2007) 5 SCC 336 (para-15), it is

submitted that since the Jharkhanda High Court held that cause of

action arises within the territorial limits of the State of Jharkhanda, this

Court has no jurisdiction to entertain this application. 8. Mr. P.K. Mohanty, learned Senior Counsel per contra

referred to Navinchandra N. Majithia (supra) in paragraphs 7, 8,

33 to 37 of which, the apex Court has held as follows: 12 Judicial pronouncements have accorded almost a uniform
interpretation to the said compendious expression even prior
to the Fifteenth Amendment of the Constitution as to mean
"the bundle of facts which it would be necessary for the
plaintiff to prove, if traversed, in order to support his right to
the judgment of the Court." 33.From the provision in clause (2) of Art. 226 it is clear that
the maintainability or otherwise of the writ petition in the High
Court depends on whether the cause of action for filing the
same arose, wholly or in part, within the territorial jurisdiction
of that Court. 34.In legal parlance the expression 'cause of action' is
generally understood to mean a situation or state of facts that
entitles a party to maintain an action in a Court or a tribunal;
a group of operative facts giving rise to one or more bases for
suing; a factual situation that entitles one person to obtain a
remedy in Court from another person. (Black's Law
Dictionary). 35. In Stroud's Judicial Dictionary a 'cause of action' is stated
to be the entire set of facts that gives rise to an enforceable
claim; the phrase comprises every fact, which if traversed,
the plaintiff must prove in order to obtain judgment. 36. In 'Words and Phrases' (fourth edition) the meaning
attributed to the phrase 'cause of action' in common legal 13 parlance is existence of those facts which give a party a right
to judicial interference on his behalf. 37. A Bench of three learned Judges of this Court in the case
of Oil and Natural Gas Commission v. Uptal Kumar Basu (1994) 4 SCC 711 : (1994 AIR SCW 3287), considered at
length the question of territorial jurisdiction under Art. 226
(2) of the Constitution of India. Some of the relevant
observations made in the Judgment are extracted hereunder
(Paras 5 and 6 of AIR SCW) : Therefore, in determining the objection of lack of territorial
 jurisdiction the Court must take all the facts pleaded in
 support of the cause of action into consideration albeit without
 embarking upon an enquiry as to the correctness or otherwise
 of the said facts. In other words the question whether a High
 Court has territorial jurisdiction to entertain a writ petition
 must be answered on the basis of the averments made in the
 petition, the truth or otherwise whereof being immaterial. To
 put it differently, the question of territorial jurisdiction must
 be decided on the facts pleaded in the petition. Therefore, the
 question whether in the instant case the Calcutta High Court
 had jurisdiction to entertain and decide the writ petition in
 question even on the facts alleged must depend upon whether
 the averments made in paragraphs 5, 7, 18, 22, 26 and 43
 are sufficient in law to establish that a part of the cause of
 action had arisen within the jurisdiction of the Calcutta High
 Court." 9. In OM Prakash Srivastava (supra), the apex Court has

also taken into consideration various pronouncements of the apex

Court given at different times including Oil and Natural Gas

Commission (supra). In paragraphs 15, 16 and 17, the apex Court

has held as follows : 16. As observed by the Privy Council in Payana Reena
 Saminathan v. Pana Lana (1914)41 AI 142, the rule is directed
 to securing the exhaustion of the relief in respect of a cause of
 action and not to the inclusion in one and the same action or 15 different causes of action, even though they arise from the same
 transaction. One great criterion when the question arises as to
 whether the cause of action in the subsequent suit is identical
 with that in the first suit, is whether the same evidence will
 maintain both actions. (See Mohd. Khalil Khan v. Mahbub Ali
 Mian , AIR 1949 PC 78) 17. It would be appropriate to quote para 61 of the said
 judgment , which reads as follows: 10. Considering the law laid down by the apex Court as

discussed above and taking into consideration the provisions contained

in Article 226 (1)(2) of the Constitution of India, and examining the

same in the case at hand, it reveals from the record that the

allegations against the petitioner as per the charge relate to the

inspection of Branches of the Bank at Cuttack and Chhatrapur, which 16 are within the State of Odisha. The enquiry in the proceeding was also

conducted at Indian Bank, Cuttack Branch on 10.1.2008 and Indian

Bank, Chhatrapur Branch on 11.1.2008, which has been reflected in

the findings of the Enquiry authority. Since the entire episode and the

cause of action arises out of the same transaction even though the

petitioner was rendering service at Kolkata, but the enquiry having

taken place within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court and satisfied

the requirement of Article 226 , the inevitable conclusion would be that

this Court has jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition and adjudicate

the same in view of the law laid down by the apex Court as mentioned

supra. The questiion no.(i) is answered accordingly. 11. With reference to question nos.(ii) and (iii), Mr.P.K.Mohanty,

learned Sr.Counsel for the petitioner strenuously urged that the

findings arrived at by the Enquiry Officer is contrary to the provisions

of law inasmuch as gross procedural irregularities have been

committed while conducting such enquiry and also there is non-

compliance of the principles of natural justice. He has referred to Regulation 4 of the Appeal Regulation, 1976, which deals with

„Penalties‟. "Compulsory retirement" as mentioned in Clause(h) of

Regulation-4 is coming within the category of "Major Penalties". Regulation 6 deals with the procedure for imposing major penalties.

Sub-Regulation (3) of Regulation 6 reads as follows: 17 12. Referring to the aforementioned provisions, it is urged that

where it is proposed to hold an enquiry, the disciplinary authority shall

frame definite and distinct charges on the basis of the allegations made

against the officer-employee. The articles of charges with statement of

allegations, list of documents relied upon along with the copy of such

documents and list of witnesses along with copy of the statement of

witnesses, if any, on which they are based, shall be communicated in

writing to the officer-employee. Applying the said Regulation to the

present context, it is urged that though the petitioner was served with

charge-sheet on the basis of the allegations made against him along

with the articles of charges together with the statement of allegations,

but no list of documents relied upon along with such documents and

list of witnesses had been supplied to him. Therefore, the entire

enquiry proceeding is vitiated due to non-compliance of the provisions

contained under sub-Regulation (3) of Regulation 6 . As it appears from

the charge-sheet in Annexure-5 though the petitioner was served with

charge-sheet alleging misconduct under Regulation 3(1) of the Conduct 18 Regulation, 1976 and has been provided with statement of imputation

with the articles of charges framed against him and the list of

documents relied upon for framing of the charges, but has not been

provided with the list of witnesses to be examined along with copy of

the statement of witnesses, if any, on which they are based. While

conducting enquiry, opportunity was given to the petitioner to cross-

examine the witnesses, but at no point of time the petitioner raised

any objection to the extent that he has not been supplied with the list

of witnesses along with the charges framed against him. Without

raising any objection if the petitioner has participated in the proceeding

itself, subsequently, he cannot turn around and say that the

proceeding is vitiated due to non-supply of the list of witnesses along

with the memorandum of charge. 13. It is further urged that the allegations made in the charges

have not been defined in any of the misconducts as spelt out in the

Conduct Regulation, 1976. Reference has also been made to Regulation 6 of the Conduct Regulation, 1976 and also the provisions

contained in Regulations 3,4,5, & 7 and it is urged that the allegations

in the memorandum of charge do not come within the purview of any

of the misconducts mentioned in the above provisions, which has been

seriously disputed by Mr.S.K.Dey, learned counsel for the opposite

parties. He states that the conduct of the petitioner is coming within

the definition of Regulation 3 of the Conduct Regulation, 1976. The 19 petitioner being an employee of the Bank is to discharge his duties

with utmost devotion, honesty and integrity and with diligence. If the

allegation of charges are proved or established, it cannot be construed

that the petitioner has acted honestly and diligently and with integrity

and devotion. Therefore, the allegations made against the petitioner

come within the fold of Regulation 3(1) of the Conduct Regulation,

1976. 14. From per the materials available on record, it appears that

the concurrent finding of facts has been given by the enquiry authority,

appellate authority and reviewing authority. It is well settled principles

of law that this Court is not sitting as an appellate authority over the

findings of the authorities mentioned above, rather the jurisdiction of

this Court is very limited to the extent that to show any procedural

irregularities while conducting enquiry so as to interfere with the same. 15. The apex Court in Nirmala J. Jhala (supra) has considered

the facts with regard to the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution for judicial review by fixing its parameters as dealt

with in paragraph-6. Clause (III) of the said paragraph reads as under: IV. Punishment in corruption cases : In Divisional Controller N.E.K.R.T.C. v. H. Amaresh , AIR 2006
 SC 2730, this court held that the punishment should always be
 proportionate to the gravity of the misconduct. However, in a
 case of corruption, the only punishment is dismissal. Similar view has been reiterated in U.P.S.R.T.C. v. Vinod
 Kumar , (2008) 1 SCC 115 : (AIR 2007 SC (supp) 1044); and U.P. State Road Transport Corp. v. Suresh Chand Sharma ,
 (2010) 6 SCC 555 : (2010 AIR SCW 3859). 16. Similarly in R. Mahalingam (supra), the apex Court laid

down the following parameters for judicial review (para-12): 17. In Union of India and Anr. V. S.S. Ahulwalia (supra),

the apex Court also fixed the guidelines for judicial review. Paragraph 7

of the said judgment is quoted below: 18. Following the same, this Court in Sudarsan Giri (supra)

in paragraphs 10 and 11 has held as follows : Union of India & Ors, AIR 1987 SC 2386, Union of India &
 Ors. V. Giriraj Sharma , AIR 1994 SC 215, B.C.Chaturvedi v.
 Union of India & Ors., AIR 1996 SC 484.)" 19. In Roop Singh Negi (supra), the apex Court has held

that a departmental proceeding is a quasi-judicial proceeding. So far as

manner of proving the documents and evidence is concerned, it is held

that mere production of documents is not enough, rather the contents

of such documentary evidence has to be proved by examining the

witnesses. Since the order of the disciplinary authority and the

appellate authority entails civil consequence, the order must be based

on recorded reasons. But while conducting departmental enquiry

though provisions of the Evidence Act is not applicable in strict sense,

enquiry has to be conducted according to the principles of natural

justice. 20. In State of Uttar Pradesh and another v. Saroj

Kumar Siha (supra) it has been held that the principles of natural

justice has to be complied with in letter and spirit or else the entire

proceeding is vitiated being violative of the principles of natural justice

and mandatory rules. 21. Applying the above mentioned provisions and the law laid

down by the apex Court and this Court to the present context, it

appears that the petitioner has not made out a case in his favour with

regard to the infraction of the principles of natural justice or procedural

irregularities while conducting enquiry so as to interfere with the same

and efforts have been made to scan the evidence basing upon which

the enquiry report has been submitted, which has been concurred by

the disciplinary authority, appellate authority and the reviewing

authority and therefore, this Court refrains from making any

observation with regard to the jurisdiction of this Court in exercise of

the power of judicial review to scan the evidence, which has reached

its finality on the basis of concurrent findings by all the fact finding

authorities. The scope of judicial review being very limited in nature as

mentioned above, applying the parameters to the present context, this

Court is of the considered opinion that the findings of facts arrived at

by the fact finding authority and subsequently reaffirmed by the

disciplinary authority, appellate authority and reviewing authority, this

Court is not sitting as an appellate authority over the findings to

further scan the same, which is beyond its scope and purview.

Accordingly, issue nos.(ii) & (iii) are answered against the petitioner. 22. In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, in

exercise of judicial review, this Court is not inclined to interfere with

the concurrent findings arrived at by the fact finding authorities and to 25 arrive at a different finding other than the finding arrived at by the

competent fora. 23. For the foregoing reasons, while holding that this Court

has jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition, this Court is not inclined

to interfere with the concurrent finding of facts arrived at by the fact

finding fora. 24. The writ petition stands disposed of. No cost. ................................... Dr. B.R.Sarangi, J. Orissa High Court, Cuttack
The 16th April, 2015/Ajaya/PKSahoo