JU DG ME N T 1. The Dy.S.P., CID, Bengaluru has filed the charge sheet against the accused Nos.1 to 8 for the offences punishable under Secs.

 465, 468, 417 and 120B of IPC r/w Sec.7 , 13(1)(a) and Sec.13(2) of the Prevention of

 Corruption Act, 1988. 2. The nub of the prosecution case is that the 6 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

accused Nos.1 and 3 who being the public

servants, in particular accused Nos. 1 and

3 were Police Constables working at C.A.R.

(City Armed Reserve), North, Bengaluru

and in the year 2003, the 3 rd accused was

deputed on OOD to the Police

Headquarters Office situated at

Nrupathunga Road, Bengaluru to work in

Computer Section. These two Police

Constables including the 2nd accused

entered into an agreement with accused

Nos.4 to 8 and hatched a criminal

conspiracy for issuing 4 fake/created

transfer orders in respect of accused Nos.4

to 8. It is also the allegation of the

prosecution that accused Nos.1 to 3 forged

the signatures of the higher police officers

in the said transfer orders with a dishonest 7 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

intention to extract money from accused

Nos.4 to 8 and also had an intention to

deceive accused Nos.4 to 8 and demanded

them bribe amount of Rs. 40,000/- each

and directed accused Nos. 4 to 8 to deposit

the same in to the S.B.Account of the 1 st

accused with State Bank of India,

Belthangady Branch and in furtherance of

the same, accused Nos.4 to 8 deposited

the demanded amounts and the accused

Nos.1 and 3 being public servants and

accused No.2 demanded illegal gratification

of Rs. 40,000/- each from accused Nos.4 to

8 in order to show them official favour for

issuance of fake transfer orders making

them to believe that they are genuine

transfer orders, to their place of choice and

also accepted the bribe amount, whereby 8 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 have committed the above stated offences. 3. After securing the presence of the accused

 Nos. 1 to 8 before this Court, they were

 duly enlarged on regular bail. As per the

 mandatory compliance, prosecution papers

 were supplied to them and all the accused

 moved an application under Sec.227 r/w

 239 of the Cr.P.C . seeking for their

 discharge from the case before framing

 charges. Those applications came to be

 rejected by this Court on merits, so as

 there was prima-facie materials to frame

 charges against all the accused, charges

 were duly framed and read over to them in

 their known language, for which each of

 the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed

 to be tried. In order to bring home the 9 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 guilt of all the accused, the prosecution in

 all examined PWs.1 to 32, exhibits at

 Ex.P.1 to P.82 came to be marked and

 Mos.1 to 5 got identified. As there was

 incriminating evidence found against all

 the accused, statements as contemplated

 under Sec.313 of Cr.P.C. came to be

 recorded, to which all the accused denied

 the same and chose not to lead any defence

 evidence. 4. Heard the arguments on both sides. 5. The fresh points that crop up for my

 consideration are as follows: 40,000/- each to the 1 st accused
S.B. Account bearing
No.30781221483 at Belthangady
Branch, State Bank of India and 12 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

as per his direction, accused
Nos.1, 4, 6 and 7 deposited Rs. 40,000/- each and 5 th and 8 th
accused Rs. 20,000/- each on
various dates appearing in the
bank account extract, whereby
cheated them and have
committed the offence punishable
under Sec.417 of IPC? reasonable doubt that accused
Nos.1 and 3 when being public
servants have demanded illegal
gratification of Rs. 40,000/- each
from accused Nos.4 to 8 in order
to show official favour in issuing
transfer orders to their place of
choice have accepted the bribe
amount which was deposited in
the said S.B. Account of the 1 st
accused with Belthangady
Branch, State Bank of India, and
you have accepted the same and
transferred a sum of Rs.20,000/-
to the S.B. Account of the 2 nd
accused with SBI, Vinobhanagar
Branch, Davanagere, to his
account No.1513101013483 and 13 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

have committed the offences
punishable under Sec.7 of the
P.C. Act 1988? accused Nos.1 and 3 when being
public servants having demanded
and accepted illegal gratification
for showing an official favour in
issuing fake transfer orders to
accused Nos.4 to 8 have
committed criminal misconduct
which is punishable under Secs.7 , 13(1)(a) r/w Sec.13(2) of
P.C.Act, 1988? reasonable doubt that accused
Nos.4 to 8 when being knowing
fully well that abetting other
public servants for doing any
illegal act for their benefit or for
the benefit of general public by
misusing the official position is
an illegal act punishable under
law, have involved in commission
of offence punishable under Sec.10 of Prevention of 14 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015 Corruption Act, 1988 ? 8). What order? 6. After carefully going through the materials

 available on record and also considering

 the facts and circumstances of the case,

 my findings to the above points are as

 under: 7. I have chosen to take combined discussion

 of all the above said aspects for the simple

 reason that the allegation of the

 prosecution is not only inter-woven, but

 also badly jumbled-up. The allegation as

 narrated by the Dy.S.P., C.I.D. before the 15 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

Court in his charge sheet is that the

accused Nos. 4 to 8 are the Police

Constables, they were in need of transfers

to their place of choice, so all of them

approached accused Nos.1 to 3, wherein

accused Nos.1 and 3 were public servants

and 2nd accused was a fruit merchant. So,

it is the main allegation of PW. 1 that this

1st accused took lead role which was very

badly supported by the accused No.3. The

charge sheet allegations further says that

1st and 3rd accused in particular promised

accused Nos.4 to 8 indirectly that they

would get the transfer orders in their

favour to their place of choice on each of

these accused depositing a sum of Rs.

40,000/- with the 1st accused Savings

Bank account which was maintained at 16 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 Belthangady branch, State Bank of India. 8. The police Head Quarters, Nrupathunga

 Road, Bengaluru having noticed the fact

 that fake transfer orders have been issued

 then started finding as to who is

 responsible for the same. In that direction

 PW. 1 takes the responsibility of holding a

 mini enquiry to ascertain as to what

 exactly is the problem and who are

 responsible for forging the signatures of top

 brass Police Officers who are entrusted

 with signing the transfer order

 notifications. Before a complaint could be

 lodged, the PW. 1 claims to have held a

 preliminary enquiry. This act of PW. 1 and

 Ex.P. 11 to 13 was found fault with by

 accused Nos.1 and 3 on the ground that 17 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 when no law has empowered PW. 1 to

 conduct an enquiry when he was not

 authorized to do this act, this PW. 1 has

 unilaterally issued Ex.P. 13. 9. The learned counsel for the 2nd accused

 also vehemently contended during his

 arguments that no written notice was

 caused to accused Nos.1 to 3 and they

 were not asked to give their explanation

 and PW. 1 himself does not know under

 which law or under what provisions of a

 particular law, this PW. 1 is said to have

 conducted the alleged preliminary enquiry.

 In this regard, according to me, the

 evidence of PW. 1 requires to be

 dispassionately looked into. This witness

 by name N.Rameshchandra who is the 18 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

retired S.P. now, was a Dy.S.P., Special

Enquiries, CID, Bengaluru at the relevant

point of time. According to him, on 12-12-

2011, his S.P. issues a memo directing him

to enquire with regard to the fake transfer

orders issued by the Police Chief Office,

Bengaluru and along with that memo also

sent 18 pages documents which contained

the names of various Police Constables

who were transferred to their places of

choice. According to PW. 1, he records the

statement of Zakir Hussain, Yogesh,

Shivamurthy Naik, Dilip Raj Urs and

Murthy K. It is the evidence of PW. 1 that

during his preliminary enquiry, those

officials who supposed to have stated

before him that by using the influence of

the 1st accused they got transfers to their 19 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

place of choice by depositing a sum of Rs.

40,000/- each to the bank account of the

1st accused. According to PW. 1, he also

secured the presence of 1st accused and

during his interrogation, the 1st accused

supposed to have told him that he used to

pay that amount to a person by name

B.M.Rajashekaraiah by withdrawing that

amount. Through this witness all those

statements came to be marked. So,

according to this witness, in his enquiry, it

was revealed that accused Nos.1 to 3 by

colluding with each other have created

such forged transfer orders in respect of

various Police Constables including

accused Nos.4 to 8. According to PW. 1, on

the strength of that memo, on 07-02-2012

he files a complaint before the Halasurgate 20 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 Police Station, same is marked at Ex.P. 13

 and the memo at Ex.P. 14. 10. On going through this brief

 examination-in-chief, two things are crystal

 clear that the 1st fact is that this PW. 1 acts

 as an enquiry officer holds a mini

 trial/enquiry and comes to the conclusion

 that it is the handy work of accused Nos.1

 to 3. So, Ex.P. 13 and 14 came to be

 lodged. Now, the question is that, what is

 his basis to form an opinion that accused

 Nos.1 to 3 are responsible for issuing fake

 transfer orders. The examination-in-chief

 of PW. 1 highly banks upon the statements

 of some of the witnesses and accused

 themselves which are at Ex.P. 5 to 10, so,

 the million dollar question before this 21 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 Court is that, how safe for PW. 1 to rely

 upon the self serving statements which

 have no sanctity or no evidentiary value

 attached to them in the eye of law. 11. At this juncture, it is apt to refer Ex.P.

 13 which is the complaint given by PW. 1

 and this was addressed by him to the

 Police Inspector, Ulsoorgate Police Station

 and some of the recitals urged in this

 complaint calls for minute scrutiny. In

 unnumbered para-2 of this document,

 there is a clear cut averment that accused

 Nos.1 to 3 have right royally involved in

 creating, forging signatures and issuing

 fake transfer orders in the police

 department circle. The said recitals found

 in Ex.P. 13 is extracted as below: 22 Second aspect of the matter is that the

prosecution has laid emphasis on the

expert evidence who was a Handwriting

Expert from the FSL, Madiwala, Bengaluru

and her report is only in respect of giving

opinion in respect of admitted and

questioned signatures found on the

documents. The opinion of the expert was

only to show that the questioned signature 25 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 was not in the handwriting of that person

 who signed admitted documents. So, every

 body knows that those signatures have

 been forged, but nobody knows who has

 forged those signatures and when. For

 ascertaining this important aspect, the

 entire trial was held. 13. When the cross-examination of PW. 1

 was considered for its appreciation under Sec.3 of the Indian Evidence Act, the focus

 was that this witness himself does not

 know the alleged preliminary enquiry held

 by him was a regular domestic enquiry or

 he was only a part of fact finding mission.

 Because, according to the defence counsel,

 if PW. 1 claims that it was a regular

 domestic enquiry/internal enquiry, the 26 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

appointing authority or a disciplinary

authority shall have to follow the rules

either as per KCSR or some such

disciplinary rules which binds the public

servant, so far as police department is

concerned. To show that a notice was

caused to accused Nos.1 to 3 or accused

Nos.4 to 8, there is no scrap of paper.

Likewise, when Ex.P. 13 and 14 are

preceded by a regular domestic enquiry by

the police authorities to show that accused

Nos.1 to 3 have committed an act of

creating documents and forging the

signatures of some of the higher police

officers. So, the defence counsel was trying

to explain before the Court through his

arguments that without following the

proper procedures, there cannot be an 27 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

enquiry. He started questioning the very

act of PW. 1 in jumping to the conclusion

that how can he find fault with accused

Nos.1 to 3 when there is no iota of evidence

pinpointing to their alleged misdeeds. I do

find some force in this argument and I am

compelled to draw this conclusion on

account of some vague and evasive

answers given by PW. 1 in his cross-

examination, some of which are extracted

for better understanding as below: 14. So, this half hearted admission on the

 part of PW. 1 claiming that he undertook

 this exercise to ascertain whether such

 omission has taken place or not completely

 stands on the statement of the witnesses

 cited above. According to me, any lawful

 act or any act where it is questioned as not

 being lawful, requires either proper

 investigation or enquiry has to be

 undertaken to arrive at a truth. Ex.P.13

 and 14 was lodged to find out who is at

 fault by holding a detailed investigation. If according to PW. 1, accused Nos.1 to 3 29 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

hatched a criminal conspiracy and

committed the offences of creating

documents and forging the signatures,

then they should be in a position to prove

by way of cogent and cohesive evidence.

The recitals found at Ex.P. 13 can only

show the fact that some of the motive

attributed to accused Nos.1 to 3 does not

reflect in the so called act of PW. 1 in

holding an enquiry. It is nothing but truth

that, any order whether it is transfer or

otherwise, which is issued from a

competent authority or an office, has to

undergo various processes, various

sections and lastly through other checks

and balances. It is an admitted case of PW.

1 and other official witnesses that decision

to transfer any of the police officials, 30 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 whether it is a gazetted or non-gazetted is

 taken at a higher level depending upon the

 contingencies and other circumstances.

 There must be a separate transfer

 proceedings, which is followed by a transfer

 order. This PW. 1 claims to have only

 examined some of the witnesses cited

 above, but there is no whisper as to what

 other documents he has verified at the

 police head quarters and what were the

 other steps taken to cross check how was

 this transfer order generated. 15. So, according to me, Ex.P. 13 and P.14

 seems to be an act of eye wash and nothing

 else. Because, before Ex.P. 13 and P.14

 could be given, there must be a

 disciplinary enquiry against the person 31 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

concerned. As on the date of addressing

the arguments, the prosecution has not

made its stand to clear as to against how

many erring officials disciplinary enquiry

proceedings were initiated. The PW.1 and

the concerned seems to have played a safe

act in only registering the complaint,

because, if they were to initiate any

disciplinary enquiry proceedings either

against accused No.1 or accused No.3, they

should have cogent documents on which

statement of imputation or charges can be

leveled against any DGO. In the instant

case, as that is missing, a bald Ex.P. 13

and P.14 came to be lodged. This PW. 1

seems to have ignored the role on the part

of accused Nos.4 to 8. Apart from that,

what is surprising is, how PW. 1 came to 32 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 the conclusion that transfer orders can be

 meddled with officials of the Police

 Constable cader, which is really surprising.

 Under such circumstances, this Court is of

 the considered opinion that Ex.P. 12 to 14

 not only requires thorough corroboration,

 but the ocular evidence of PW. 1 requires to

 be substantiated word by word and line by

 line through both ocular and documentary

 evidence. 16. When the serious allegations made by

 the prosecution against these 8 accused

 persons are kept in mind, they are not only

 serious, but has got all the ramification of

 projecting a bad image in the society. The

 very first allegation against the accused

 Nos.1 and 3 being that these both public 33 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

servants hand-in-glove with 2nd accused by

name B.M.Rajashekaraiah who was a fruit

merchant of Chikkabantanahalli had

ended in entering into an illegal agreement

to forge transfer orders which also involved

the interest of accused Nos.4 to 8.

Subsequently, the other allegations

revolves around forging signatures of the

higher police officers, cheating,

impersonation, lastly, demand for bribe,

then its acceptance which has

tantamounted to criminal misconduct on

the part of accused Nos.1 to 3. So,

basically, the prosecution is here to show

before the Court that the assistance of 3 rd

accused which was taken by the police

headquarters, Bengaluru as a computer

assistant was thoroughly misused by them, 34 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 only to commit the above stated offences. 17. When the arguments on merits was

 going on, the Learned Public Prosecutor

 confidently spoke about the fact that in

 view of bank vouchers and challans which

 are available at Exs.P. 16, 17, 19, 20, 28,

 38, 39 and 73 are looked into, they are self

 explanatory in so far as highlighting before

 the Court that accused Nos.4 to 8 either

 directly or through their relatives have

 deposited demanded illegal gratification

 amount to the S.B. Account of the 1st

 accused with his S.B.I bank at

 Belthangady Branch. So, it was argued by

 the Learned Public Prosecutor that this

 Court can easily draw inference against the

 accused that all these 8 accused have 35 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 committed the above stated offences. 18. No doubt, these bank challans and

 counter foils definitely show that a

 specified amount was remitted to the bank

 account of the 1st accused, but those

 documents per-se have not disclosed as to,

 towards what purpose those remittances

 have taken place. Another aspect which

 requires to be further looked into is that

 this entire trial and criminal case is to find

 out who has committed an illegal act of

 forgery and concoction of documents. No

 doubt, when Exs.P. 1, P.2, P.13 and P.14

 are kept in mind, PW. 1 has shown his

 fingers towards accused Nos.1 and 3 and

 in general accused Nos.1 to 3. As I have

 already extracted the admission of PW. 1 36 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 found in his cross-examination that the so

 called preliminary enquiry claims to have

 been held by him was as per the directions

 of his S.P. and nothing else. 19. This PW.1 also makes it very clear that

 even though he had caused notices to

 accused Nos.1 to 3 and some of the

 witnesses, but he does not know under

 what provision of law that was issued and

 how his report becomes tenable, because,

 admittedly the said preliminary enquiry

 was not a domestic enquiry. Again if we

 consider the main contention of the

 accused Nos.1 to 3 that when PW. 1 was

 not authorized to be an enquiry officer, no

 charges of imputation or charge sheet can

 be issued in favour of accused Nos.1 to 3. 37 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

The claim of PW. 1 that he held the

preliminary enquiry only to lodge Ex.P. 13

and P.14 cannot be accepted. Indeed, it is

a reality that if any domestic enquiry has

to be conducted, then not only a

procedure, a fair opportunity must be given

to the delinquent Government Officials or

the accused to put forth their say and and

also to take the assistance of next friend.

In the instant case, the opinion expressed

by PW. 1 that as he collected information

from PW. 23 and PW. 25 that the

signatures found on the alleged transfer

orders does not belonged to them, PW. 1

formed an opinion that it was a handy

work of accused Nos.1 to 3 in commission

of concocting documents and forging of

signatures. According to me, this will not 38 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 help the prosecution to project that there

 was an agreement and a conspiracy on the

 part of accused Nos.1 to 3 for the purpose

 of creating documents i.e. fake transfer

 orders and forging the signatures of PW. 23

 and 25. As I have clubbed the different 7

 allegations faced by all the accused

 together for my discussion, now the very

 important aspect which requires to be

 distilled is, is there any evidence placed by

 the prosecution to show that the so called

 amount remitted into the bank account of

 the 1st accused was towards paying bribe. 20. In this regard, I would like to go in

 detail and examine the role of PW. 2. This

 witness by name R.Nijaguna, S/o Rupla

 Naik, who was the S.D.A. in the JMFC 39 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

Court in Davanagere. According to this

person, he was working as the Police

Constable in Mangalore City in one of the

police stations and he claims to have

known the 1st accused. According to him,

in the year 2012, he has worked with the

1st accused and on one day, the 6th accused

had brought his father to Manipal Hospital

for treatment and at that time, both of

them were staying in his room and

subsequently this 1st accused was

transferred from Mangalore to Davanagere

and thats all. Subsequently, the CID police

summoned him for investigation and asked

him about his acquaintance with 1st and 6th

accused persons. His further examination-

in-chief is to disclose the fact that he has

no role in the alleged fake transfer orders 40 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

of police officials. He also says that Ex.P.

15 statement is not given by him and

lastly, he completely turned hostile. In the

entire cross-examination conducted by the

Learned Public Prosecutor, there was an

effort, of course, to suggest in respect of

the contents of statement at Ex.P. 15 which

came to be denied by this witness in toto.

When the contents of Ex.P. 15 is taken

note of, the allegation that this PW.2 acted

as a middleman and also a catalyst

between the 1st accused and the police

constables who wanted transfer to their

place of choice on paying bribe amount has

not been proved at all. So, the first

independent witness on the part of the

prosecution has failed to support its own

case. Spl.C.C.No.5/2015 21. Coming to the evidence of PW. 3 by

 name Chandan Raj Urs who is the native of

 Mavatturu in K.R.Nagar Taluk in Mysore

 District. He claims to have known the

 accused No.4 Dilip Raj Urs. During the

 year 2011-12, he was working as a sweeper

 at the State Bank of India, Jigani Branch,

 Bengaluru and according to him, he does

 not know anything about this case and he

 has not advanced loan of Rs. 40,000/- to

 accused No.4 at that time. Even though

 through this witness a voucher cum

 challan dtd.02-10-2011 was shown and

 marked at Ex.P. 16, he completely denies

 this alleged transaction and even in respect

 of seizure panchanama at Ex.P. 17. He

 denies its contents, but admits his

 signature only on that document. During 42 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 the course of examination-in-chief, this

 witness completely turned hostile. His

 statement is at Ex.P. 18 came to be denied

 by him. The very first suggestion has been

 denied by him which reads as under: 22. As I have said earlier, the main ground

 of attack on the part of the prosecution

 was that when there are documentary evidence to show that accused Nos. 1 to 3 have accepted the bribe by way of

 demanding the beneficiary to deposit them 43 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 in the S.B. account of the 1st accused, the

 burden of proving the same on its part was

 lessened, because this bank documents

 comes with presumption. According to me,

 the prosecution was wrong in highlighting

 this aspect before this Court, merely

 because, Ex.P. 16 has taken place, the

 Court has to consider that amount as

 demanded bribe amount. As I have said

 earlier, this document itself does not

 contain any recital to the fact that this

 amount was paid towards the bribe. So,

 even this second independent witness of

 the prosecution has not helped it. 23. Coming to the evidence of PW. 4 by

 name T.D.Jagadaiah, who is the 7th

 accused's wife's brother. According to this 44 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

witness, his brother-in-law was a Police

Constable at Bellary, through him he came

to know about the 1st accused. So, this

witness makes it very clear that in the year

2011, the 1st accused had requested him to

advance a loan for the purpose of house

construction, so at that point of time, twice

he has deposited some amount i.e. Rs.

15,000/- at the 1st instance and Rs.

25,000/- at the 2nd instance on the same

day. Through this witness Ex.P. 19 and

P.20 came to be marked. This witness by

turning hostile completely denied the

suggestions that this total amount of Rs.

40,000/- was paid as the bribe to the 1 st

accused in order to show favour to the 7th

accused to get transfer to the place of his

choice. So, in the cross-examination 45 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 conducted by the Learned Public

 Prosecutor of this witness, Ex.P. 21 came

 to be completely denied by this witness. As

 I have said earlier, if these PWs. 2 to 4 had

 supported the case of the prosecution,

 documents at Ex.P. 16 to 21 would have

 got life and their recitals would have

 conveyed some fruitful meaning. But, as

 these witnesses have completely turned

 hostile and negatived the story and the

 allegations made by the prosecution

 against the accused, the entire case of the

 prosecution is now in dole-drums. 24. Coming to the evidence of another

 independent witness by name Shankar

 Naik, who has been examined as PW. 5,

 who was the contract employee with the 46 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

Devaraj Urs Backward Classes and

development Board and he had a brother

by name Manju Naik, through him, he

came to know the 1st accused and

according to this person, he was

summoned by the C.I.D. and asked him

about the role of the 1st accused in

demanding and accepting the bribe for the

purpose of showing official favour by

asking the beneficiary to deposit Rs.

40,000/- into his bank account. But,

according to this witness, he has not seen

the 2nd accused receiving the bribe amount

of Rs. 40,000/- on behalf of the 1 st accused

and completely disowns his statement

which is at Ex.P. 22. In fact, he has been

thoroughly cross-examined by the

prosecution in spite of the fact that this 47 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 witness turned hostile. But, nothing worth

 considering for appreciation is found in the

 cross-examination, because, the sequence

 of events which are tried to be connected

 by the prosecution's to the allegations

 made against the accused could not be

 successfully done. So, this independent

 witness has not supported the stand of the

 prosecution. 25. Coming to the evidence of PW. 6 by

 name Kemparaj Urs, who is a native of

 H.D.Kote, Mysore District and elder brother

 of the 4th accused. According to this

 person, he does not know why the 4th

 accused had been prosecuted. He admits

 his signatures at Ex.P. 16 and P.17, but he

 does not know its contents, because, 48 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 according to this witness his signatures

 were obtained by C.I.D. police on those

 documents forcibly. This witness too has

 turned hostile and not supported the case

 of the prosecution. When the contents of

 Ex.P. 23, his statement, are gone through,

 much hope was pinned on this document

 by the prosecution to substantiate the fact

 that in respect of alleged transfer of 4th

 accused amount in a sum of Rs. 40,000/-

 was collected by the 1st accused as a bribe.

 Again there is a complete failure on the

 part of the prosecution to substantiate this

 aspect. 26. Coming to the evidence of star witness,

 according to me is PW. 7 by name

 Miss.Asha, daughter of Marappa, who was 49 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

the FDA at D.G. and I.G.P. Office,

Bengaluru at the relevant point of time.

She was examined before this Court,

because, according to the prosecution, she

knew the niti-grities of the day today

transactions which took place at that

police headquarters more so in respect of

transfer of police personnel. According to

this lady, from 19-01-2010, she was

working at that headquarters and she was

an Assistant to C.Channappa in

establishment section No.7, then, she was

posted to work under one Udayashankar in

establishment Section No.2, finally she was

independently given charge in

establishment Section No.9. During her

tenure as the Assistant in establishment

section No.2, there was transfer order of 50 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

100 Head constables and Police constables.

So, this lady makes it very clear that there

is not even one transfer order in respect of

single transfer of any one police officials.

She claims that she knew accused No.3

who was assisting as a typist. Further,

according to this lady, she spoke about

how transfer orders used to take place and

particularly on 05-03-2012, she was called

by the C.I.D. police and enquired about the

fake transfers by showing the fake transfer

orders and as she has acquainted with

signatures of PWs.23 and 25, she has

answered that those signatures does not

belonged to them. So, according to this

lady, the documents shown by C.I.D. to her

at that time claiming to be the transfer

orders did not contain the original 51 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

signatures of PWs.23 and 25. But, in the

cross-examination, she failed to identify

accused No.2. According to her, she does

not know how the fake transfer orders took

place and she also spoke about the

possibility of bulk transfer order getting

generated and disowned the fake transfer

order in respect of any one police officials.

So, this Ex.P. 24 has not been supported

by her because, this lady also has been

partly treated as a hostile witness.

According to her, in respect of identity of

the 2nd accused she has not spoken

anything about Ex.P. 24. But, in the cross-

examination conducted by the 3rd

accused's counsel, there is some admission

which is helpful to them, which are

extracted as under: According to me, considering the nature of

 the work which was given to the 3 rd

 accused, it cannot be said that any transfer

 orders in respect of police officials either

 can be tampered or created independently

 in an isolation. Spl.C.C.No.5/2015 28. Coming to the another important

 witness PW. 8 by name Smt.Pavithra, W/o

 B.N.Nagaraj who was also a First Division

 Assistant in the Police headquarters office,

 D.G. & I.G. Office, has given evidence and

 tried to support the prosecution case.

 According to her, she was attending work

 in respect of transfers and deputations of

 constables and Head constables of inter

 districts. She claims to have known about

 the accused No.3. According to this lady,

 she has gone through the signatures of

 PWs.23 and 25 on the fake transfer orders

 and has given her opinion before the C.I.D.

 police that it does not belonged to them.

 She also makes it very clear in her

 examination-in-chief that those signatures

 were not belonged to those PWs.23 and 25. 54 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

But, in the cross-examination, there is

some admission which enlightens this

Court that on 22nd July 2011, she was not

working in that particular establishment

section, which had generated that fake

transfer order. She also claims that she

had no any independent power to transfer

any police constable directly on deputation

without the direction of the higher

authorities. But, the main admission

found in her cross-examination is extracted

as under: Spl.C.C.No.5/2015 29. This admission was extracted to show

 before the Court that as handwriting

 science is not an exact science and as this

 PW. 8 is not an expert, her opinion that

 signatures found on Exs.P.25 and 27 does

 not belonged to PWs.23 and 25 cannot be

 accepted. Likewise, when the transfer

 orders are sent to different S.P. offices, the

 official who is under transfer is unable to

 know whether such particular transfer

 order has any mistakes or omissions. So,

 this type of answers given by PW. 8 in her

 cross-examination can only be considered

 as cat sitting on the fence and nothing else.

 The role of PW. 8 was questioned by way of

 cross-examination only to highlight before

 the Court that Ex.P. 25 and 27 were not

 issued from that particular section. Here, 56 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 this particular witness's evidence who has

 not stated anything about the role of

 accused Nos.1 to 3. So, it will not help the

 prosecution to canvass that there was a

 criminal conspiracy amongst accused

 Nos.1 to 3. In this regard I rely upon a

 decision reported in AIR 1971 SC 885 ; N.M.M.Y. Momin Vs. State of

 Maharastra ; Where in it is held that A

 conspiracy from its very nature is generally

 hatched in secret. That element is not at all

 found in the present case and the

 prosecution has failed to prove this aspect. 30. In my preceding paras this Court held discussion that neither accused Nos.1 to 3 with 2nd accused did not form a team or

 entered into an agreement to hatch 57 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

criminal conspiracy. As the allegation of

the IO who filed the charge sheet against

these 8 accused are manifold, so the

allegations made against these accused are

badly mixed up. The next part of the

serious allegation are in respect of creating

false transfer orders which include the

name of accused Nos.4 to 8 and that was

done with a dishonest intention to extract

money, whereby the IO has invoked Secs.465 and 468 of IPC. When these

allegations were made against those

accused, it is not only the document which

is branded as created/fake orders requires

to be relooked into but also the person who

is involved in this illegal act has to be

found out. Spl.C.C.No.5/2015 31. When we fall back on the main

 document of the prosecution at Ex.P. 2,

 which is a letter of direction issued from

 the office of D.G.P. to the Director of CID,

 Bengaluru to look into the matter of

 issuing fake transfer orders of Police

 Constables by holding a detailed enquiry

 and on the basis of Ex.P. 2, documents at

 Ex.P.11 to P.14 have taken place. Now,

 when the contents of Ex.P. 11 which is his

 report-cum-complaint of PW. 1 is looked

 into, the recitals of that document show

 that serious charges are made against

 accused Nos.1 and 3 that they are

 responsible for creating fake and false

 transfer orders. The subsequent

 documents which are discussed supra

 Ex.P. 12 and 13 also raises big question 59 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 mark in respect of the way in which PW. 1

 has come to the conclusion that on a

 preliminary enquiry, he came to the

 conclusion that accused Nos.1 and 3 with

 the help of 2nd accused who was an

 outsider/private person are responsible for

 committing offences under Secs.465 and 468 of IPC. This bald allegations made

 against accused Nos.1 to 3 in particular,

 that they have committed heinous offence

 of creating documents and extortion

 sounds baseless. 32. So far as the evidence of PW. 9 by

 name Shiva Prasad is concerned, who was

 the FDA at the Bengaluru Police

 Commissioner Office for the relevant

 period, according to him, he was 60 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

discharging his duty in the establishment

section. So, he was looking after the

transfers, promotions and Court matters of

police constables, stenos and typists. On

30th October 2011, he receives a letter from

the S.P., Dakshina Kannada District

containing a direction that accused No.6

has to be relieved from his duty as that

official was transferred to Mysore.

According to this person, having gone

through that transfer order, he suspected

in respect of its genuineness and

immediately contacted his counter part of

the S.P. office, Mysore. So, immediately he

brings to the notice of the higher

authorities in respect of the fake transfer

orders which was in turn communicated to

I.G.P. office at Mysore. Through this 61 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

witness, 4 fax message copies at Ex.P. 2(a)

to (d) are marked. In so far as cross-

examination of this witness by the counsel

appearing for accused Nos.4 to 8 is taken

into consideration, they elicited evidence

that, this witness has not looked into the

original transfer order. Subsequently, he

also gives evidence that he does not know

whether the I.O. has issued another

direction in writing to Dy.S.P. Naik to

record the statements of accused Nos.4

and 6 or not. The evidence contained in

this document was to show before the

Court that accused No.6's transfer order

was fake. The available materials have

shown that the documents which are

questioned are fake transfer orders came to

be confirmed by the Police headquarters 62 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 that it is not a genuine documents. But,

 the point for consideration is who are the

 culprits. For that purpose, this entire

 exercise and trial has been conducted.

 But, this evidence of PW. 9 by itself has not

 signaled the fact that either accused No.1

 or 3 are responsible for this committing

 this offence, wherein they involved, in

 particular, commission of offences under Secs.465 and 468 of Indian Penal Code. 33. Coming to the another crucial evidence

 of PW. 10 by name Ganesh, according to

 him, the 8th accused is his younger brother

 and his younger brother was working in

 the year 2011 at Pandeshwara Police

 Station, Mangalore. His wife Sowmya was

 working in Hudjan higher Primary School, 63 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

Mysore and through his brother, he came

to know about the 1st accused. But,

according to this person, he does not know

whether his brother 8th accused was

subsequently transferred. About 8 years

back, he has sent a sum of Rs. 15,000/- to

the bank account of the 1st accused.

Through this witness, Ex.P. 28 filled

challan/counter foil came to be marked.

But, this witness makes it very clear that

as the 1st accused requested for financial

help, he has sent this amount to his bank

account. This evidence at his examination-

in-chief is extracted as under: 34. Having given this evidence, this

 witness turned completely hostile and he

 denies the entire cross-examination

 conducted by the Learned Public

 Prosecutor and the Ex.P. 29. As discussed

 earlier, the main trump card for the

 prosecution that there are duly filled

 counter foils of bank for having remitted a

 specified sum of money to the bank

 account of the 1st accused which is at State

 Bank of India, Belthangady Branch, but

 those documents themselves cannot show

 that all the amounts remitted by these

 people were towards bribe or as 65 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 gratification. In this regard I rely upon a

 decision reported in 2011 Cr.L.J. 4671

 (A.P.) State ACB Vs. J. Chandrashekara

 Reddy, wherein the Honble High Court has

 held that mere recovery of tainted amount

 from the accused officer divorced from the

 circumstances is not sufficient to prove the

 case of the prosecution. It is because even

 if the bank account of the 1 st accused is

 considered, the amounts remitted by

 accused No.4 to 8 and their relatives to

 that bank account cannot amount to

 acceptance of bribe. Those bank

 documents require further corroboration,

 but they have not been proved by the

 prosecution. 35. Coming to the evidence of PW. 11 by 66 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

name Lokesh, police constable, who is

attached to the Chikkajala Police Station.

He claims that he knew the accused No.3

and in the year 2010-11 he was working as

a P.C. at Kadoor Police Station, Magadi

Taluk of Ramanagar District. He had

submitted requisition for his transfer from

Ramanagar district to Bengaluru City, so

he came in touch with accused No.3.

Though he submitted his application for

transfer, but he did not get any reply.

According to this witness, the 3rd accused

did not help him, but later on, it was

brought to his notice that once his

application for transfer is processed, S.P.

from D.G. office will call him over phone

and ask him about his necessity for getting

transfer and as such, he waited for a reply 67 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 from that office. Even though, he spoke to

 accused No.3 over telephone it is only in

 respect of that matter and this is what he

 stated before the CID. So, in his

 examination-in-chief, it was tried to be

 impressed upon by this Court that even

 PW. 11 was in contact with accused No.3,

 only to get his transfer to a place of his

 choice by paying a bribe. But, second half

 of the evidence of this witness in respect of

 payment of bribe amount to the accused is

 not proved. 36. Coming to the evidence of PW. 12

 K.S.Shashidhar, according to him, in the

 year 2011, one Lingaraju was working as a

 Special Officer in the Chief Minister Office,

 Vidhana Soudha, Bengaluru. So, he was 68 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 working as an assistant in room No.235,

 where the said Lingaraju was also working.

 According to him, he does not know the

 person by name Rajashekaraiah and he

 has not seen him. Further, this witness

 completely turned hostile and in his cross-

 examination, apart from denying the

 prosecution suggestions, has denied his

 own statement at Ex.P. 31. The nexus

 which the prosecution tried to establish is

 one Mr.Lingaraju who was working with

 him, then with the help of this person

 transfer orders were made but on account

 of this witness completely turning hostile

 that document at Ex. P-31 is not proved. 37. Coming to the evidence of PW. 13 by

 name Basavaraj who was the police 69 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

constable attached to the Bagalakote town

police station, he had come in contact with

accused No.3 and this accused No.3 used

to call him over phone. This witness has

injected a new evidence that whenever

accused No.3 used asked for money, he

used to pay Rs. 50/- or Rs. 100/-.

Through accused No.3, he came to know

that a case is registered by the CID police

and they had questioned him as to whether

he has paid any bribe amount to the

accused No.3 to which, according to him,

he has not paid that bribe amount. The

relevant examination-in-chief of PW. 13 is

extracted as below: 38. Even this witness has completely

 turned hostile denies the entire statement

 at Ex.P. 32. The 3rd accused counsel has

 cross-examined this witness. But, the

 sum and substance is that there was no

 demand or acceptance of bribe by the

 accused No.3. In this regard I rely upon a

 decision reported in 2008 Cr.L.J. 3312; State Vs. V.Sejappa , wherein the Hon'ble

 High Court has held that a plain reading of

 the provision of Sec. 7 of the P.C. Act,

 1988, will make it clear that all that is

 required to bring the case within the ambit

 of Sec.7 is for the prosecution to prove that

 a public servants accepts or obtains or 71 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from

 any person any gratification other than

 legal remuneration as a motive or reward

 for doing any official favour to any person.

 But in this case that is missing. 39. Coming to the evidence of PW. 14 by

 name Srinivas, he claims to have known a

 person by name Dr.S.K.Shankar who was

 the P.S.I. at Davanagere extension police

 station. This witness claims that he knew

 the 2nd accused but he did not meet this 2nd

 accused in connection with transfer of one

 Mr.Shankar. Again in his examination-in-

 chief, this witness turns hostile denies the

 suggestion in the cross-examination in

 respect of remittance of bribe amount to

 the bank account of the 1st accused. Bank 72 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

statement is marked through this witness

at Ex.P. 33. But, considering the entire

evidence of PW. 14, Ex.P. 33 plays a little

significant role because there is no dispute

in respect of remittance of a sum of Rs.

15,000/-. But, whether that amount is a

bribe amount is a million dollar question,

because in his examination-in-chief, there

is a categorical denial that, that amount

remitted by him was towards transfer of

one Shankar paid as a bribe to the 1 st

accused. So, the entire case set up by the

prosecution in respect of alleged extortion

of money, creating false and fake transfer

orders falls to the ground. In this regard I

rely upon following decisions. 2002 AIR,

SCW 16; Punjab Rao Vs. State of

Maharashtra and another reported in 73 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 2005 Cr.L.J. 3650; Raghotan Rao Vs.

 State of Andhra Pradesh ; wherein it is

 held that in a case where the accused

 offers an explanation for the receipt of the

 alleged amount, the question that arises

 for consideration is, whether the

 explanation is said to have been

 established. It is further clear that the

 accused is not required to establish his

 defence by proving beyond reasonable

 doubt as the prosecution, but can establish

 the same by preponderance of probability. 40. Coming to the evidence of PW. 15 by

 name N.M.Halaswamy who is said to be an

 independent witness claims that he knew

 the 2nd accused and about 7 years back,

 the CID police had gone to his native place 74 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 to enquire in the matter and they have

 obtained the statements and signatures.

 Further, this witness makes it clear that in

 his presence, the police have not seized the

 mobile phone of the 2nd accused. He also

 makes it very clear that he does not know

 anything about this case. Even though

 Ex.P. 34 came to be marked, this witness

 has not supported that document. So,

 there is a failure to show before the Court

 when alleged seizure of mobile phone

 belonged to the accused No.2 was as per

 law. 41. Coming to the evidence of PW. 16 by

 name Thippeswamy, who is also an

 independent witness, he claims to have

 known the 2nd accused. The Police have 75 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

enquired him and recorded his statement

and Ex.P. 34 was not drawn in his

presence. It is a seizure panchanama.

Again this witness claims that no mobile

phone belonging to the 2nd accused was

seized in their presence. Likewise,

according to him, motorcycle bearing

No.KA-17 EE-6465 was also not seized.

So, this witness who has identified Ex.P. 36

completely denies that document and Ex.P. 37. According to him, when he was

proceeding to his agricultural land, police

have mechanically obtained his signatures

on those two documents. So, the sum and

substance of this witness's evidence is that

mechanically he has signed on the

panchanama when going to his agricultural

land and he has not enquired as to for 76 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 what purpose they have drawn. 42. Coming to the evidence of

 N.Jagadisha, PW.17 who was the FDA

 attached to RTO office, Davanagere and

 according to this person, he knew one

 Jayarathna, she was working as a 'D'

 group employee in D.C.T. Office,

 Shivamogga. In the year 2011, she had

 requested him that, as she is the native of

 Gubbi Taluk, she wanted transfer to

 Tumkur or Tiptur as she knew the 2 nd

 accused she asked for a help. In the year

 2009, accused No.2 has brought a letter

 from Bengaluru Transport Commissioner

 Office requesting for arranging a bus

 facility to Chikkabanthanahalli Village in

 Jagalur Taluk of Davanagere District, at 77 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

that particular time, the accused No.2

showed the letter heads of politicians like

B.S.Yediyurappa, the then District Minister

S.A. Ravindranath and promised him that

he would get a transfer of her place of

choice. According to this witness, at that

time, the accused No.2 demanded a bribe

of Rs. 25,000/- from him and this was

communicated to Jayarathna CW.24 and

she deposited this amount in the SB

account of this witness. Later he withdrew

that amount, paid the same to accused

No.2. After 2-3 months, when CW.24 did

not receive any transfer orders, she

reminded this witness, in turn it was

communicated to the 2nd accused and on

enquiry by CW.24, they came to know that

there was a transfer order issued. That 78 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 transfer order was bearing the signature of

 the then Transport Commissioner

 Sri.T.Sham Bhat and later accused No.2

 demanded a bribe of Rs. 15,000/- and this

 witness claims to have paid the same to the

 accused No.2 on behalf of CW.24.

 According to this witness, later on CW.24

 told that the transfer order which is

 received is a bogus transfer order and she

 demanded accused No.2 to refund that Rs.

 40,000/- through this PW. 17. 43. It is also spoken by this witness that

 on 19-08-2011 he has transferred a sum of

 Rs. 25,000/- from his account to the SB

 account of CW.24 and retained the balance

 amount of Rs. 15,000/-. When CID police

 have issued a notice he appeared before 79 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

him with a pass book and xerox copy of the

same. Through this witness Ex.P. 38 and

39 are marked. Now, when this evidence of

PW. 19 is kept in mind, the role of CW.24

in particular, initially there is no allegation

made against accused No.2. He had duped

CW.24 and in the cross-examination

conducted by the 2nd accused counsel, all

the related issues in respect of places of

work, nature of work, etc. have been asked.

According to this witness, he met CW.24 in

the year 2009 in the D.C.T. Office

Shivamogga and he had no any dealing

with him. It is elicited in his evidence that

both 2nd accused and CW.24 are not known

to each other. But, the important

admission of this witness is that there is no

documentary evidence to show that he has 80 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 paid the bribe of Rs. 40,000/- to the

 accused No.2 which is extracted as under: 44. So, this is the evidence given by PW. 17. In a nut shell, according to PW. 17, he

 acted as a middleman through whom,

 CW.24 paid the bribe. But, this evidence

 has also brought in new aspect as to when

 he claims that he has refunded Rs.

 25,000/- to CW.24, why he has not

 collected the said amount from the accused

 No.2, to which there is no answer at all. As

 I have said earlier, the new aspect of

 bribing accused No.2 to get a favourable 81 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

order to CW.24, it is not found in earlier

evidence, both oral and documentary

evidence but all of a sudden it surfaces.

This part of the evidence of PW. 17 if

considered as an improvement in the case

of prosecution, it may not be wrong. So,

the prosecution through various witnesses

trying to improve its case only to show that

the accused No.2 received the bribe

amount. Admittedly, the accused No.2 is

not a public servant. Then how the alleged

acceptances of bribe amount will have

bearing on issuance of fake transfer orders

is again another question not answered by

the prosecution. I should say, these

aspects have not been properly linked to

each other and as I said earlier, the modes

through which evidences are collected 82 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 seems to be direction less. 45. In respect of Sec.417, there is one

 more serious allegation that fake transfer

 orders were created with a dishonest

 intention of cheating. This allegation not

 only contemplates but also pre-supposes

 the fact that there must be a calculated

 move on the part of accused No.1 to 3,

 firstly to project the said transfer order as a genuine then to deceive accused Nos.4 to 8 and others. In the instant case, the

 prosecution is trying to connect the so

 called bank challans which pertains to the

 SB Account of the 1st accused at

 Belthangady branch, SBI claiming that

 accused Nos.4 to 8 including CW.24

 through PW.17 have deposited bribe 83 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

amounts demanded by the 1st accused to

his bank account. So, this amount found

in the bank account of the 1st accused

according to prosecution is the bribe

amount. In the nutshell, according to the

prosecution accused No.1 to 3 have

cheated the so called beneficiaries of the

fake transfer orders. This allegation stands

on its own leg if it is proved to the

satisfaction of the Court that the alleged

amount found in the bank account of the

1st accused was a bribe amount. In this

regard, it is needless to repeat that the

evidence tendered by some of the witnesses

earlier, they have disowned in this regard.

In fact, they have not only disowned, but

they have completely turned hostile. So,

when the person who has remitted the 84 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

amount to the SB account of the 1 st

accused comes out with an explanation

that it was a hand loan, financial

assistance and the amount paid towards

treatment of the 1st accused family

members, again branding that amount as

a bribe amount will not sustain for

consideration at all. In this regard I rely

upon a decision reported in 2007 (4)

Crimes 44 (SC); A.K.Ritola Vs. State of

Bihar wherein it is held that where there

was nothing to show that accused had the

requisite intention so as to deceive

somebody with a view to cause unlawful

loss and to make unlawful gain for

themselves question of committing the

offence of cheating will not arise at all. In

the instant case the allegation leveled 85 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 against accused of Sec.417 of IPC is not

 proved by the prosecution at all. 46. Coming to the evidence of PW. 18 who

 was a Technical expert in CCPS, Bengaluru

 and on 5-03-2012 CW.24 C.K.

 Lingeshkumar, Dy.S.P. informed him that

 the systems used by the accused No.3

 Lakshmikanth has to be seized in

 connection with Halasuru P.S. crime

 No.49/2012, so on his request, he had

 been to D.G. and I.G. office, Bengaluru to

 seize the systems. According to this

 witness, I.O. shown the four systems to

 seize, and as per his instructions, he has

 seized them. Out of the 4 systems/hard

 disks, two were of 80 GB capacity, one was

 of 1GB capacity and another was 160 GB 86 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 capacity. Through this witness Ex.P. 40 to

 43 which were 4 panchanamas came to be

 marked and his signatures also got

 identified on those panchanamas. As it

 was formal and nothing much was

 attributed to anyone of the accused in this

 case, this witness was not cross-examined

 by anybody. 47. Coming to the evidence of PW. 19 who

 was the retired District Administrative

 Officer, DG & IG Office at Bengaluru,

 according to him, he knew the 3rd accused

 and again on 05-03-2012 CW.42 IO visited

 their office in connection with seizure of

 said systems used by the accused No.3. He

 was also a mahazar witness to those

 seizure panchanamas. Even this witness 87 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 was not cross-examined by all the accused

 except accused No.3. The only cross-

 examination of the accused No.3 was to

 elicit admission from this witness to know

 that there was any password allotted to

 this system used by this witness. By

 culling out those admissions, it was tried

 to be impressed by this Court that the

 alleged fake transfer orders cannot be

 easily brought out or published with the

 help of few persons working therein as the

 said process has got different procedures,

 checks and balances. 48. Coming to the evidence of PW. 20,

 K.N.Srinivasmurthy who was the FDA in

 the police headquarters in the year 2012.

 He claims to know accused No.3. On 05- 88 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

03-2012, IO visited their office for

investigation and by that time, one

technician by name Mallikarjun was

present with accused No.3 and the IO

seized one hard disk from the system

allotted to him and his system was used by

accused No.3 and after seizer of hard disk

the IO drawn a mahazar, to which his

signature was taken and this witness

identified his signature at Ex.P. 42(b). In

the cross-examination by the accused No.3

counsel, it is admitted that his client i.e.

accused No.3 was only assisting for

computer operation to this PW. 20. This

evidence was placed to show and to

corroborate other main aspects that there

is a link already established by the

prosecution to prove the guilt of the 89 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 accused No.3. 49. Coming to the the evidence of PW. 21,

 he is the Nodal Officer, Bharathi Airtel Ltd.

 by name Stanley Hegnolo who has received

 a letter from CID Police with a request to

 furnish the call details of two mobile sim

 numbers for the period commencing from

 1-5-2011 to 13-12-2011. In compliance of

 the same, this gentleman has issued Ex.P.

 44 and 45 and through this person Ex.P.

 47 and 48 came to be marked. In the

 cross-examination, it is his answer that as

 the IO has sought for the information in

 respect of call details, he has issued the

 covering letter containing this information

 for a specific period. But, this witness

 admits that he has not issued any separate 90 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 certificate under Sec.65B of the Indian

 Evidence Act. So, it was easy for the

 defence counsel to submit that any opinion

 provided by way of electronic document

 cannot have legs to stand, because they

 are without any Sec.65-B I.E.A. certificate

 issued from the competent authority. Of

 course, when it was submitted in the

 arguments, the prosecution has no answer

 to this. 50. Coming to the evidence of PW. 22

 witness by name Rathnakar Naik who is a

 Nodal Officer of BSNL, who has also issued

 call details in respect of one sim number

 for a particular period. According to this

 witness, he issued the call information

 details with a certificate under Sec.65B of 91 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

the Indian Evidence Act , which were

respectively came to be marked as Ex.P.

50 and P.51. So far as this evidence of

Nodal Officer of BSNL is concerned, having

gone through both oral and documentary

evidence, it was to show before the Court

that those information have been properly

made use of by the IO during the course of

investigation. As it is not a trap case, as

there is no any sting operation, question of

depending upon the voice records or going

through the call details only to connect

accused No.1 and 3 with all the accused

No.4 to 8 that these people have demanded

bribe amount will not arise for

consideration at all as it is either abetting

or commission of conspiracy, cheating,

forging signatures, creating documents by 92 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 themselves are independent offences of

 their own. So, the prosecution through

 these type of circumstances trying to

 connect accused No.1 to 3 to these alleged

 offences but they have completely failed in

 this regard. 51. Coming to the evidence of a very

 important witness PW. 23 by name

 H.N.Sathyanarayana Rao, retired DGP

 given evidence that in the year 2011, he

 was working as the ADGP Crimes and

 Technical service in the police

 headquarters, Bengaluru and from 10-08-

 2011 to 30-10-2011, he was in Addl.

 Charge of ADGP, Administration and he

 came to know that some false transfer

 orders were issued in the name of their 93 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

office with respect to the constables of

inter-district. On 9-12-2011, his Chief

Officer has shown some signatures on the

transfer orders with a request to identify

the said signatures belonged to him or not.

After careful scrutiny of the said

signatures, it was his opinion that they are

not his signatures. So, through this

witness Ex.P. 53 to 60 came to be marked

and later on they were sent to FSL for

scientific examination by the Handwriting

expert. In fact, this witness too has not

been cross-examined by any of the

accused. The sum and substance of his

examination-in-chief is that he says that

his signature has been forged, but he does

not know who has done it. Another

interesting aspect is, but for the complaint 94 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

given by PW. 1 that Ex.P. 2, P.11 to 14, this

person or PW. 25 on their own have not

taken any action which is still more

surprising. Whether office has taken

action or not, it is a subsequent thing, but

he should take the matter seriously and

initiate proceedings. In the instant case

also, when Ex.P. 11 is gone through, it is

very surprising as to how PW. 1 has come

to the conclusion that it is only accused

No.1 and 3 are responsible for forging the

signatures. As I have said earlier, they

does not stand a test of time because there

are no proper reasons assigned for it.

Under such circumstances, this evidence of

PW. 23 cannot show before the Court that

accused No.1 to 3 either created fake

transfer orders or forged his signatures on 95 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

them. At this juncture, it is also relevant

to examine the evidence of PW. 25 by name

Jeevan Kumar who too was the ADGP at

the relevant point of time and according to

him, he has also served as ADGP,

administration in the police headquarters

and he came to know that some unknown

persons have crated fake transfer orders

and he also went through such orders and

according to him, it was found that

signatures found on those orders does not

belonged to him. In fact, this witness also

says that he had put a suggestion to the

I.G. Stating that a separate preliminary

enquiry has to be conducted in connection

with fake transfer orders by appointing a

Dy.S.P. So, PW. 1 was appointed, then

Ex.P. 1, 11 to 14 has taken place. In the 96 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

cross-examination, there are some

admissions which show that, he suspected

that, his signatures were forged on transfer

orders, but he does not know who is the

culprit. He also admits that he had no any

impediment to give a complaint in this

regard. This witness spoke about the role

of PW. 1 and admitted that the so called

preliminary enquiry conducted by the PW.

1 are not domestic enquiry. By saying so,

he deposes that the alleged preliminary

enquiry claims to have been conducted by

PW. 1 virtually has no legal force or no

sanctity in the eye of law. Some of the

material admission given by PW. 25 is

extracted as under: 52. So, when it is his evidence that these

 were the precautions taken in the

 computer headquarters, then there should

 not be any doubt about the identifying the

 culprits. Under such circumstances, the

 evidence of PW. 23 and 25 have failed to

 show before the Court that even though

 their signatures were forged, but both of

 them did not act on their own or have

 shown least interest in initiating any action

 against the persons they suspected of

 forging their signatures on the transfer

 orders. Because of initiation from the PW.1

 on account of direction from higher

 authorities, Ex.P. 11 came to be lodged and 98 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 nothing else. In this reard I rely upon a

 decision reported in 2009 Cr.L.J. 1317,

 Surain Singh Vs. State of Punjab . It is

 now by well established principle of law

 that for the offence under sections 409 , 467 and 471 of the IPC the existence of

 mens rea (guilty mind) must be proved. 53. Now, it is the earnest appeal and case

 of the prosecution that admitted,

 questioned and standard signatures of PW.

 23 and 25 have been sent to the expert and

 in view of her report at Ex.P. 63 to 68, so

 the opinion of PW. 24 is the foundation

 stone on which the present complaint and

 FIR are standing. 54. Coming to the evidence of PW. 24, 99 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

Zeenath, the incharge Sr. Scientific Officer,

FSL, Madiwala, Bengaluru, on 1-08-2014,

their laboratory has received a file and a

sealed cover sent by Halasur Gate P.S. in

the Cr.No.49/2012. That file was referred

to their division and she receives that

sealed cover. She also spoke about the

contents of the said sealed cover.

According to this lady, the documents

found in the sealed cover were carefully

and thoroughly examined by using

scientific instruments. After her

examination, it is her opinion that the

person who wrote the standard signatures

marked as S1 To S13, R1 to R6 did not

write the questioned signature marked as

QD1. The questioned signature marked as

QD1 is produced by means of imitation 100 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

forgery. Further, according to this PW. 24,

the person who wrote the standard

signatures marked as S14 to S27, R7 to

R12 did not write the questioned

signatures marked as QD2 to QD11. The

questioned signatures marked as QD2 to

QD11 are produced by means of imitation

forgery. So, according to her, signatures of

PW. 23 and 25 found on transfer orders are

on account of imitation forgery. So, on the

basis of this report, PW. 1 and even the IO

have come to the conclusion that accused

No.1 to 3 are responsible for the same and

this illegal act was abated by accused No.4

to 8. But, in the cross-examination, none of

the accused did not bother much in respect

of this report, because, it did not attribute

to a particular person. This is what she 101 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 say in the cross-examination which is

 extracted as under: 55. So, the entire case set up by the

 prosecution now falls like heap of cards. In

 this regard, when the report of PW. 24 is

 looked into separately, in Ex.P. 64, over

 leap of the document which reads as

 follows: 56. So, according to me, this Ex.P. 64

 definitely cannot enure to the benefit of the

 prosecution and this document cannot be

 the culprit finding document, because, the

 serious allegations made in respect of

 accused No.1 to 3 in respect of creation

 and concoction of documents and then

 forging of signatures have not been proved

 at all. Under such circumstances,

 commission of offence under Sec. 465 of

 Indian Penal Code falls to ground. 57. So far as the allegations made against

 accused Nos.4 to 8 that they have actively

 committed an offence of abating, because 103 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 they have paid demanded bribe money

 towards getting their favourable transfer

 orders illegally is also not proved. In this

 regard, there are few more witnesses whose

 evidences, I would like to examine and

 discuss now. 58. Coming to the evidence of PW. 26 by

 name N.M.Kotresh who was a fruit

 merchant in Kottur, Kudligi Taluk, Bellary

 District, according to him, he knows 5th

 accused and 2nd accused, but he does not

 know the 7th accused. About 7 years back,

 he was also questioned by the CID police

 and according to him, in his presence 1 st

 accused has not produced any bank

 challans before the police and no

 panchanama at Ex.P. 69 was drawn by the 104 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 CID police, but has identified his signature

 on Ex.P. 69. This witness completely

 turned hostile and in the cross-

 examination, his entire statement at Ex.P.

 71 came to be denied by this witness. 59. Coming to the evidence of PW. 27 by

 name Asif Ulla, police constable attached

 to the CCB, Bengaluru. According to him,

 he knows accused Nos.5 and 6. In the year

 2012, he had been to the CID office to give

 a letter and on that day, CID police have

 not seized any bank challans produced by

 accused No.5 and 6 in his presence, no

 panchanama was drawn and this witness

 completely denies panchanamas at Ex.P.

 72 and 74 and he identifies his signatures

 at Ex.P. 72(a) and P.74(a). According to this 105 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

witness, he does not know the contents of

these panchanamas and also the bank

challans. He was treated as a hostile

witness, denies his statement, but in the

cross-examination conducted by the 1st

accused counsel, he comes out with an

answer that if at all he has signed

panchanamas, it is only at the instance of

the higher police officers who insisted him

to sign on those panchanamas at Ex.P. 73

and 75. So, this witness not only

supported the case of the prosecution, but

also makes the allegation that his higher

police officers insisted him to sign on some

of the documents for their convenience.

So, even this police constable's evidence is

of no help to them. Spl.C.C.No.5/2015 60. Coming to the evidence of PW. 28, who

 was the Dy.S.P., according to this person,

 he has also worked in the Special Enquiry

 Squad of CID. He was acquainted with the

 handwriting and signature of C.K.Lingesh

 Kumar who was the IO. As he died during

 the course of investigation, this witness is

 examined to identify his signatures on

 some documents pertaining to this case.

 His examination-in-chief is to fill up the

 vacuum by identifying the signatures of

 C.K.Lingesh Kumar and the documents

 such as Ex.P. 17(c), 19(b), 20(b), 28(b),

 34(c), 40(b), 41(c), 42(c), 43(b) and so forth.

 But, in the cross-examination, there is an

 admission that he did not work under

 Dy.S.P.Lingesh Kumar as there was no

 direction from his higher authorities. He 107 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 also admits that in his presence, no

 panchanamas were drawn, which are

 connected to this case and no Material

 Objects much less Mos.1 to 5 came to be

 seized. According to me, merely because

 this witness identified the signatures of

 Lingesh Kumar, who has undertaken the

 investigation can make any meaning to his

 investigation. 61. Coming to the evidence of PW. 29 by

 name V.Sathyanarayana, who was the

 Chief Manager of SBI, Davanagere branch

 who receives a requisition on 29-01-2012

 from the CID, Dy.S.P. asking him to

 furnish the ATM images of 06-10-2011 of

 their ATM footage installed in Apoorva

 Hotel Complex, Davanagere in between 108 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 10.19 a.m. to 10.25 a.m. So, he deputed

 his engineers to take out the extract of the

 said ATM images and then forwarded the

 same to the Dy.S.P. Lingesh Kumar.

 Ex.P.81 and 82 came to be marked through

 this witness. Again there is an admission

 that he has not collected certificate under Sec.65B of the Indian Evidence Act from

 the person who has collected the

 information from ATM footages. According

 to this person, he had displayed the footage

 before sending the same to the Dy.S.P.,

 CID, Bengaluru. 62. Now, this evidence assumes

 importance only when there is an

 allegation that wrongly or illegally some

 amount has been with drawn from the 109 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 bank account of the accused No.1 by way

 of committing fraud through ATM

 machines. Now, for what purpose this PW.

 29 was examined by the prosecution is not

 known. Even assuming that some amount

 is collected through this machine from the

 1st accused's bank account, it can not show

 that it was towards the bribe amount.

 According to me, this exercise undertaken

 is futile. So, this exercise of collecting

 CCTV footages only to show that there was

 some conversation between accused No.1

 who is the relative of accused Nos.4 to 8 or

 vice versa cannot be a relevant and quality

 evidence to bring home the guilt of the

 accused. 63. Coming to the evidence of PW. 30 by 110 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 name Paramesh, resident of

 Parashurampura, Davanagere. He was

 examined by the CID about 7 to 8 years

 ago in respect of knowing the relationship

 of 1st accused with him. According to him,

 he has not seen the CID police seizing the

 mobile phone of the 1st accused, but they

 have obtained his signature on the

 panchanama. This witness identified his

 signature on panchanama at Ex.P. 77 and

 completely turned hostile and has not

 supported the case of the prosecution. 64. Coming to the evidence of another

 witness by name PW. 31, who was also a

 mahazar witness to Ex.P. 80 and according

 to him about 10 years back, he was called

 by the CID police to their office, his 111 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 signature was taken on a paper and at that

 time, his son-in-law was also present and

 they have not seized the mobile phone of

 the 1st accused. This witness also turned

 hostile and has not supported the case of

 the prosecution in so far as seizure

 panchanama at Ex.P. 80. 65. Coming to the evidence of PW. 32, by

 name Nanjundappa, he was the vehicle

 driver in CID, Bengaluru and he claims to

 have known CW.42 C.K.Lingesh Kumar

 Dy.S.P. On 5-07-2012. According to him,

 he was called by CW.42, but he seized one

 LG mobile phone from the writer of the

 police department and drawn mahazar and

 his signature was also obtained. So, he

 identifies his signature at Ex.P. 80(c) and 112 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 that mobile phone was marked at MO.5.

 But, he does not know that MO.5 belongs

 to whom. This witness turned hostile and

 denied all the prosecution suggestions and

 according to him, he does not know to

 whom MO.5 belongs. It was suggested to

 this person that MO.5 belonged to the

 accused No.3. This is totally denied and

 disowned by this witness. In fact,

 according to this person, he does not know

 the contents of Ex.P. 80. 66. As CW.42 Lingesh Kumar was no

 more, who had completed the investigation

 work, in spite of examining PW. 28, there

 are some influencing factors, it could not

 be explained to the satisfaction of this Court so far as accused Nos.4 to 8 113 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 committing offence under Sec.10 of

 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, I

 should say, there is nil material and in the

 available oral testimonies, none of these

 police constables have directly approached

 accused Nos.1 or 3. Even if the role of the

 2nd accused is considered, they do not

 suggest the fact that when was such

 demand for transfer to their place of choice

 was sought by these accused persons

 because to which neither there is any

 document nor any evidence. 67. More over, firstly, the IO must place

 the respective transfer applications of the

 alleged beneficiaries. Next, such transfer

 applications shall have to be registered

 separately and numbered and proceedings 114 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

have to be drawn and finally transfer

orders shall have to take place. Question

now is how cum these procedures were

circumvented in this alleged transfer

orders. Without following proper procedure

as per law and rules no transfer

proceedings can be passed. The evidences

of PW. 28, PW. 23 or 25 are silent as to

when was the committee held its meetings

to discuss about the modality of

transferring some of the police constables

inter district or what was the agenda of a

particular meeting and what is the out

come and minutes of such meeting.

Because every such meeting shall have

minutes, time, date and place. The claim of

PW. 1 that he held a detailed preliminary

enquiry also has not spoken about these 115 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

aspects. The common phenomena is only

when decisions are taken in a meeting by

the committee, minutes are drawn, then

that will culminate in passing of final

transfer orders. In the instant case, the

present case seems to have been projected

before this Court stating that fake transfer

orders have taken place without bringing to

the knowledge of PWs. 23 and 25. It is at

the cost of repetition stated that, issuing

transfer orders are the ultimate work. It

shall be preceded by proceedings of a

meeting, noting down all the deliberations

of such meetings, drawing minutes, then

taking the signatures of the persons who

participated in the meeting, then issuing

transfer orders. There is separate

procedure adopted for issuing transfer 116 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

orders also. Such, transfer orders shall

pass through different sections, should

reach different offices then ultimately to

the Home Ministry and lastly to the AG

Office. When the alleged transfer orders

which are the questioned documents

submitted before the PW. 24 for her

examination, none of those questioned

documents or transfer orders contained

questioned signatures were placed or

submitted as many copies were sent to

various departments. Under such

circumstances, the role of each of the staff

involved in this preparation, issuance,

dispatch and circulation of the transfer

orders in the police headquarters have not

at all been questioned, their statements are

not recorded and nothing is elicited in this 117 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 regard. Moreover, it is for the prosecution

 to explain before the Court that how only

 accused Nos.1 and 3 as a public servants

 can create, generate and issue fake

 transfer orders. 68. Now this Court will have to finally

 ascertain as to whether there are worth

 evidence for consideration in order to

 appreciate for the alleged offences under Secs.13(1)(a) , 13(2) and finally Secs.7 and 10 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.

 In respect of Sec.7 and 10 of the said Act,

 this Court has repeatedly discussed that

 mere bank challans which are before the

 Court or the so called amount remitted by the relatives of the accused Nos.4 to 8 cannot be considered as a bribe amount. 118 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

In this regard, the material witnesses have

been examined, they vociferously gave

evidence that the said amount remitted by

them to the bank account of the 1st

accused was not towards bribe, in turn

according to them all of them were towards

hand loan, financial assistance and the

amount borrowed by the 1st accused to

tide over his other financial constraints.

The first trumph card of the prosecution

that, the said acceptance of the amount

belonging to the accused Nos.4 to 8 is a

bribe amount falls to the ground.

Admittedly on scanning of entire oral and

documentary evidence, there is no scrap of

material which show that both 1 st and 3rd

accused demanded bribe. It is also elicited

in the evidences of PWs.23 and 25 that 119 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 they were not aware of the person who

 forged the signatures on the said transfer

 orders and the very fact that PWs.23 and

 25 on their own have not given any

 complaint personally show that, as they

 did not know as to who was the person

 responsible for the said illegal act, they did

 not give a complaint. 69. Now, when the prosecution itself is not

 aware as to who is the culprit or who is the

 person, who has created fake transfer

 orders and forged the signatures, now the

 question of giving Exs.P. 2, 11 to 14 does

 not arise at all. When Ex.P. 2 is gone

 through, it was a direction to the Director,

 CID to hold a preliminary enquiry to

 ascertain as to who is the person 120 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

responsible for the said illegal act.

Admittedly, when Ex.P. 11 to 14 are gone

through, there is no convincing material to

show that rightly PW. 1 has formed an

opinion which show that accused Nos.1

and 3 are responsible. As I have stated

earlier, the incorrect conclusion that was

arrived by PW. 1 to find fault with accused

Nos.1 to 3 is meaningless. As I have said

earlier, issuance or preparing transfer

order is a last final act in respect of

transferring of police constables process.

There is no whisper as to when did the

police constables, who were in need of

transfer of inter-district transfer gave such

application, who received their application,

whether it was sent through the proper

channel, what is that file, who is in custody 121 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 of those files to which there is no material

 at all. When the evidence of PW. 1 and

 Ex.P. 11 are looked into, I am unable to

 understand as to how can a reputed

 investigating agency like C.I.D. can ignore

 this influencing factors. Only when PW. 1

 or PW. 28 are able to show that there are

 cogent and cohesive materials pinpointing

 towards the involvement of accused Nos.1

 to 3 in commission of these offences, then

 only Court can accept their version. So, far

 as the accused No.2 is concerned, since he

 is a private person, question of he

 committing alleged offences does not arise

 at all. 70. Coming to the role of accused Nos.1

 and 3, merely because, they were attached 122 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 to police headquarters office at Bengaluru

 to work on OOD basis cannot be a ground

 to suspect that the transfer orders are

 created by them by forging the signatures

 of concerned higher police officers. 71. In respect of accused Nos.4 to 8, either

 paying the demanded bribe amount or

 abetting accused Nos.1 to 3 to commit the

 said offences also does not arise at all. The

 present case is hit by non-examination of

 IO for the simple reason that CW.24 by

 name Lingeshwar, who was the Dy.S.P.,

 C.I.D. died during the course of

 investigation. This is the greatest lacuna,

 which the prosecution could not over come.

 Even though in the place of CW.24, it has

 examined PW. 28, but his evidence is of no 123 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

significance, because, he himself is not

clear because he was not authorized to

assist CW.24 and only because he worked

under CW.24 as a police inspector, he

claims to be familiar with his signature,

hence, he appeared before the Court and

gave evidence as PW. 28. Likewise, in his

cross-examination, he gives an answer that

all the mahazars drawn by CW.24 during

the course of investigation was not in his

presence. Likewise, Mos.1 to 4 were also

not seized in his presence. By giving this

evidence, he admits that he is only a name

lender in this case and has appeared before

this Court to identify the CW 24's

signatures on all police records. According

to me, the person who had full information

in respect of the entire investigation under 124 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 taken i.e. CW.24 is no more, so his role

 and his official act could not be put to

 cross-examination which is the

 requirement of the circumstance. 72. So far as seizure of Mos.1 to 5 are

 concerned, MOs. 1 to 4 are hard disks

 which are seized by CW.18 in the presence

 of CW.24. Coming to MO.5, which is the LG

 company mobile phone supposed to be

 belonging to the accused No.3 which was

 supposed to have been seized in the

 presence of CW.32, but this witness denied

 the same and also denied the fact that this

 MO.5 belonged to accused No.3. Even

 during the course of proceedings of this

 case, the accused No.3 did not move any

 application claiming the interim custody of 125 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 MO.5. Under such circumstances, this

 MO.5 shall have to be confiscated to the

 State after completion of the appeal period.

 So far as MOs.1 to 4 are concerned, as

 they are the hard disks of the computer

 systems, which were made use of by the

 accused No.3, they will have to be

 preserved along with this file for future

 reference and its usage. 73. So far as the allegations made by the

 CW.24 against all the accused through his

 charge sheet have not at all been proved.

 First of all, hatching a criminal conspiracy,

 then involving in commission of offences

 under Secs.417 , 465 , 468 of the Indian

 Penal Code, then Sec.7 , 10 , 13(1)(a) , 13(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 have 126 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

not at all been proved by the prosecution.

In this regard I place my reliance in a

reported decision in 2009 Crl.L.J. 3462

(SC) Harmanpreet Singh Ahluwalia and

other Vs. State of Punjab and others;

wherein it is held that for the purpose of

constituting an offence of cheating, the

complainant is enquired to show and prove

that the accused had fraudulent or

dishonest intention at the time of making

promise or representation. But this aspect

and element is not proved by the

prosecution in this case. Most of the

circumstantial witnesses have not

supported the case of the prosecution.

Even the staff who were working at I.G.

and D.G. police headquarters at Bengaluru

have not come to the rescue of the 127 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

prosecution. More over, the evidence of

PW. 1 and Ex.P. 2,11 to 14 are incomplete

themselves and I should say lastly that the

2nd accused counsel highlighted in respect

of improper procedure adopted by PW. 1 to

hold a preliminary enquiry. As it was not a

domestic enquiry, PW. 1 seems to have

come to a conclusion in respect of

involvement of accused Nos.1 to 8 in this

case on the basis of surmises and

conjectures, because, there are no

pinpointing documents. Likewise, when

the evidences of PW. 23 and 25 are looked

into, none of them are able to say as to

who committed the offences under Secs.465 and 468 of Indian Penal Code.

For these reasons, I have answered all

these 7 points in the negative. 128 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 POINT No.8: 74. Having gone through the oral and

 documentary evidence and also having

 considered the reply of the accused vide

 their statement under Sec.313, it has only

 shown before the Court that prosecution

 has failed to prove the guilt of all the

 accused persons beyond all reasonable

 doubt. More over, all the mahazar

 witnesses including independent witnesses

 have not supported the case of the

 prosecution. The role of the IO in this case

 and his act of investigation could not be

 put to litmus test as he died during the

 course of investigation. Likewise, the

 evidence of PW. 23 and 25 are looked into,

 this Court feels that they are less serious

 in respect of the questioning forging of 129 Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

their signatures on fake transfer orders.

According to them, they also does not

suspect any persons in this regard. Under

these circumstances, there is a miserable

failure on the part of the prosecution to

prove the charges leveled against accused

Nos.1 to 8. Hence, I proceed to pass the

following : Acting under Sec.235 (1) of
 Cr.P.C., the accused Nos.1 to 8 are
 hereby acquitted of the offences
 punishable under Secs.465, 468,
 417, 120B o f Indian Penal Code and Secs.7 , 10 , 13 (1(a) and 13(2)
 of the Prevention of Corruption
 Act,1988 . Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 The bail and surety bonds of
 the accused Nos.1 to 8 and their
 sureties shall stand hereby
 discharged. M.Os.No. 1 to 4 shall be
 preserved along with this file like
 any others exhibits/documents
 and the MO.No.5, L.G. Company
 mobile phone is ordered to be
 confiscated to the State after
 completion of appeal period. (Dictated to the judgment-writer, transcript
thereof and then corrected and pronounced by
me in the open Court on this the 18 th DAY OF
FEBRUARY 2022). (S.V.SRIKANTH),
 LXXVII ADDL. CITY CIVIL &
 SESSIONS JUDGE & SPECIAL JUDGE,
 BENGALURU CITY. Spl.C.C.No.5/2015

 A N N E XU RE

LIST OF WITNESSES EXAMINED FOR
PROSECUTION: PW.13: Basavaraj S.Theggi. PW.14: Srinivas. PW.15: N.M.Halaswamy. PW.16: Thippeswamy. PW.17: N.Jagadish. PW.18: Mallikarjun. PW.19: Prakash. PW.20: K.S.Srinivas Murty. PW.21: Standley Hegnolo. PW.22: P.Rathnakar Naik. PW.23: H.N.Sathyanarayana Rao.
PW.24: Neenath.M.
PW.25: T.V.Gaonkar. PW.26: N.M.Kotresh. PW.27: Asifulla. PW.28: S.R.Srinivas. PW.29: V.Sathyanarayana. PW.30: Paramesh. LIST OF DOCUMENTS MARKED FOR
PROSECUTION: LIST OF MATERIAL OBJECTS MARKED FOR
PROSECUTION: