This CRAN application arose out of order

 dated 7.3.12 passed in CRM No. 3350 of 2012

 under Section 439(1)(b) of the Code of Criminal

 Procedure, 1973. On or about 24.2.12, the

 petitioner filed an application being CRM No.

 3350 of 2012 challenging the order No. 3 dated

 10.2.12 passed by the learned Chief Sessions

 Judge in connection with DRI.F No.

 19/Kol/APP/20120/392 under Section

 104 / 132 / 135 / 135A of Customs Act read with Section 193 / 420 / 471 IPC read with Section 120B IPC when the learned Judge imposed certain

 conditions while granting bail to the petitioner. The petitioner is a citizen of India and one

 of the Directors of the Company Space Matrix

 Pvt. Ltd. The said company is a unit in a special

 economic zone at Falta, West Bengal. On 4.2.12, 2 the petitioner was arrested by Customs Officer in

purported exercising power conferred under Section 104 of the Customs Act, 1962 in

connection with a consignment of export made

by the said company. The petitioner was arrested

for commission of offence under Section

104 / 132 / 135 / 135A of the Customs Act read with Section 193 / 420 / 471 IPC read with Section 120B IPC. Ground of arrest was communicated to the

petitioner. The offences under Customs Act,

1962 are bailable and non-cognizable. An Officer of Customs is not a Police

Officer. Section 104 of the Customs Act

authorizes an Officer to arrest a person if he has

reason to believe that any person in India has

committed an offence punishable under Section

132 / 135 / 135A / 136 of the Customs Act. The

Officer of Customs has no right to investigate

any offence under Section 193 / 420 / 471 120B IPC. The petitioner was produced before the

learned Metropolitan Magistrate on 4.2.12. The

petitioner was sent to the judicial custody

contrary to the law laid down by the Supreme

Court in the case of Om Prakash vs. Union of

India reported in 272 ELT Page 321 (Supreme

Court). The petitioner preferred an application

before the learned court of Sessions for bail. On

10.2.12, the petitioner was granted bail by the 3 learned Sessions Judge with the condition that he

would not leave the territorial jurisdiction of the

State of W.B. and that he would surrender his

passport before the Senior Intelligence Officer

and that the petitioner would be made available

for interrogation before the Senior Intelligence

Officer before the Director of Revenue

Intelligence, Calcutta and that he would not

directly or indirectly threaten the person so as to

dissuade him from disclosing the fact to the said

Officer. The petitioner obtained bail and

surrendered his passport to the respondent.

Thereafter, the petitioner filed an application

under Section 439(1)(b) of the Code of Criminal

Procedure assailing the condition imposed at the

time of granting bail. On hearing on 7.3.12, His

Lordship modified the order of bail that the

petitioner would not leave the territorial

jurisdiction of State of W.B. without permission

of the Senior Officer of the Directorate of

Revenue Officer of Calcutta. The other

conditions of bail remained. The petitioner states

that the offence under Customs Act being a non-

cognizable offence could not be investigated

without the permission from the learned

Magistrate. No complaint has yet been filed

against the petitioner. Further, the offence under

Section Customs Act has been compounded. The 4 petitioner filed application for quashing

proceedings and investigation under Section 226

of the Constitution of India in the Hon'ble Court

in WP No. 315 of 2012. The petitioner states

that the business of the petitioner is connected

with the foreign trade. Since last 12 months the

petitioner is not permitted to go abroad. The

company of the petitioner is suffering immense

loss and injury because of the wrongful action on

the part of the respondent. The petitioner filed an

application being CRAN No. 2168 for relaxation

of condition bail on 27.6.12. He has a

fundamental right of foreign travel. The present

restriction on foreign travel would cause

immense hardship to the petitioner by

withholding passport and forbidding him from

travelling overseas. Foreign travel is essential

part of his business based on export and import.

Since February, 2012, the business has been in

stand still. So, the petitioner prayed for

permitting him to visit overseas between 25.2.13

to 15.4.13 on such terms and conditions as the

Hon'ble Court may deem fit and proper and

accordingly, prayed for modification of the

condition of bail. In support of his contention, the learned

counsel for the petitioner submitted before me

written argument which has been kept as a part 5 of the record. It was prayed therein subsequently

for permitting him to go abroad from 15th May,

2013 to 15th June, 2013 on executing a bond as

the Hon'ble Court may think fit and proper. Further, it was contended that the offence

being bailable no condition can be imposed

regarding movement of the present petitioner as

held in by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case

of Vaman Narayan Ghiya vs. State of Rajasthan reported in 2009 (2) SCC 281. Further, personal

liberty as envisaged in Art. 21 of the Constitution

of India includes right to go abroad and without

due process of law merely on account of

unfounded apprehension of the prosecution that

an accused may abscond, passport of the accused

cannot be impounded nor any restriction can be

put on the movement of the person in view of the

authoritative pronouncement of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court as held in Maneka Gandhi vs.

Union of India reported in 1978 (1) SCC 248. Strongly such argument was challenged

by the learned counsel for the Customs i.e.

Opposite Party. On hearing of both sides, the following

facts have emerged so far. i) Investigation of this case is already

complete. ii) during investigation, the present

petitioner have filed a writ case, WP No. 316 of 6 2012 challenging the applicability of Customs

Act, 1962 and asserting the applicability of Special Economic Zone Act, 2005 under whom

the petitioner's unit is one at Falta, West Bengal.

In that case, the petitioner prayed for release of

capital goods and raw materials seized under the

'Panchnama' dated 29.2.12 and prayed for

rescinding the notice to freeze bank accounts; iii)

in that writ case WP No. 316 of 2012 His

Lordship on 3.7.12 passed order that no money

shall be withdrawn from the bank accounts

excepting usual course of business for which

separate accounts shall be maintained and except

for repayment of bank loans or payment of all

taxes and duties; iv) the respondent after due

inquiry and examination of the petitioner issued

show cause notice under Customs Act, 1962 vide

letter No. DRI.F No. 19/Kol/APP/2012/431-432

dated 1.2.13 stating inter alia that the petitioner

has hatched up a conspiracy to do fraud on public

money and government revenue by setting up a

unit inside Falta SEZ and his activities have

given rise to liability amounting to Rs.

91.30/- Crores alongwith interest and he is liable

to penal action under Section 112(a) and 114 of

the Customs Act, 1962. So, he was asked to

show cause before the Commissioner of Customs

(Airport and ADMM) Customs House, 51/1, 7 Strand Road, Calcutta-1 within 30 days from the

date of receipt of the notice as to why action shall

not be taken against him; and v) so far, the

petitioner has not submitted any reply to show

cause notice. Needless to mention that brief fact is

based on specific intelligence export and import

containers were intercepted and on examination

it was found that the containers were loaded with

junk CDs and packing boxes stuffed with foam

though value of goods was declared as

approximately Rs. 49.35/- crores. Further, the

case of the respondent is that the amount of

revenue involved was Rs. 91.40/- crores. In the meantime, i) the petitioner has

come up with the prayer for modification of

condition of bail and relaxation to the extent of

permitting him to travel overseas for a month and ii) his passport may be directed to be returned to

him. The learned counsel for the petitioner

further submitted that taking responsibility of his

client, he assures the court that only for a month

the petitioner is very much required to go abroad

for his business purpose and surely he will come

back and face trial. He further submitted that the

petitioner be allowed to furnish bank guarantee

of Rs. 10 lacs/cash deposit of the same with the 8 Office of the Registrar General, High Court

Appellate Side Calcutta. He further submitted

that the seized materials from the custody of the

petitioner are sufficient as security, in addition to

the fact that he has left behind his residential

property and other properties and his family at

Calcutta which are also equivalent to guarantee. The learned counsel for the respondent

raised vociferous objection against such prayer

and contended that once the accused petitioner

leaves this country with his passport he will

never return to face trial here in India. So, by no

stretch of imagination his prayer can be conceded

to. I have considered both sides contention

carefully. It is true that the alleged offence is

extremely serious in nature and revenue of Rs.

91.40 crores as well as indirect amount of

revenue of Rs. 500/- crores are involved. It may

be but that is an amount disputed by the present

petitioner. Further, this is a case where

punishment is maximum for 7 years with fine. It has not been disputed by the respondent

that the petitioner's business does not demand his

movement outside India (as revealed from the

petitioner's petition) and documents placed by

the respondents. So, the question under Art. 21 9 of the Constitution of India i.e. right to life does

not come into operation. The State is definitely within its domain

to put restriction about freedom of movement but

a balance has to be struck between 'liberty' and

'justice'. On inquiry the learned counsel for the

respondent could not give any positive and

acceptable answer over the question "whether

custody trial is needed in such type of case".

Even the respondent cannot give any clear-cut

probable time during which the trial may be

concluded. So far, the petitioner has not

submitted show cause. Then why the respondent

sat idle is not clear. The rationality and

proportionality of the prayer of the petitioner

should be considered. The deprivation of his

personal life and liberty has to be taken care of. Considering entire circumstances, I am of

the view that the matter may be disposed of as

follows. The petitioner shall be permitted to

 take back his passport from the concerned

 authority to go abroad strictly only for a

 month according to his requirement subject

 to the following conditions: It must be ensured that he shall come

back to India positively by 1.7.2013 and

resubmit the passport to the proper authority

under whom it is presently lying. The conditions so imposed above shall

remain in force only for a month as indicated

above. Thus, the petition stands allowed and

disposed of. Let a plain copy of this judgment duly

countersigned by the Assistant Registrar

(Court) be supplied to the parties on usual

undertakings. (Toufique Uddin, J.)