Santanu Sit & Ors. Mr. Billwadal Bhattacharya, DSGI
 Mr. Arijit Majumdar
 ... for the WBBPE

 Mr. Saikat Banerjee
 Mr. Ratul Biswas
 Mr. Kaushik Chowdhury
 ... for the WBBPE

 In this matter I passed an order on 04.04.2023

 stating that I would stay my hands till I receive an

 order from the Hon'ble Supreme Court that I could

 proceed with the digitized OMR sheets as are being

 passed on as true copies of the OMR sheets. After going

 through the complete order of the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court and on a complete reading of the Supreme

 Court's order, that part of the order dated 04.04.2023 is

 recalled as there is no stay granted by the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court for which this court can stay its hands

 and in respect of the digitized answer scripts, the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court only gave some protection to Dr. 2 Manik Bhattacharya and the Hon'ble Supreme Court

did not prevent this court from hearing the matter on

the present aspect that is the digitized OMR sheets as

are being supplied by the West Bengal Board of Primary

Education. In one of the volumes of the case diary I have

checked the questions put to three of the candidates

who did not get qualifying marks in TET 2014 but got

the appointment letter. I do not find any meaningful

question was put to them in respect of transaction of

money. They have avoided the questions by saying that

they did not know anything in that regard and they

received the sms through their mobile number and they

have stated that they got the job on their own merit

only. There is nothing as to transaction of money,

whereas the whole allegation of appointment of teachers

for the primary schools recruitment scam is transaction

of money between the unfit candidates and some

persons who arranged the job for them against payment

of money. Again I am surprised and astonished to see the

complete casual approach of CBI in questioning the

candidates who did not even qualified in TET. I have

reason to believe that if I checked the statements of

other unqualified candidates who have got job, the same

and identical thing could be found. It has been recorded 3 by one Deputy Superintendent of Police, namely Sanjay

Kumar Samal, who has not put the most pertinent

questions as to transaction of money. When I asked the

Investigating Officer, Mr. Wasim Akram Khan, whether

any of such persons have been arrested, he submitted

that only four such unqualified candidates admitted

transaction of money and they were arrested by the

court. It appears that CBI did not arrest them. In the

meantime, I am told, they have got bail. It is again evident that CBI is playing with the

court and not at all investigating the matter with due

importance to unearth the corruption. Therefore, I direct the Director of CBI to take note

of this matter and to talk to his officers who are in the

Special Investigation Team and to file a report signed by

him as to the performance of CBI vis-à-vis the

observation made by this court today in this matter. The

report of the Director CBI, Mr. Prabin Kumar Sood is to

be filed before this court on 4th October, 2023 when this

matter will appear at 2 p.m. and Mr. Sood must appear

before this court via video conference so that the

questions that may be put to him by the court can be

replied by him. In this matter the order for investigation by CBI

was passed on 27.09.2022. Today (20.09.2023), almost 4 one year is passed but it appears to this court that CBI

has not taken any reasonable step to unearth the

primary teachers' recruitment scam. List the matter accordingly. (Abhijit Gangopadhyay, J.)