1. The brief case of prosecution is that on or before 07.06.2007 at ICICI 

Bank Ltd., D­949, Friends Colony, New Delhi, the accused namely Gagan Deep @ 

Aditya forged a cheque bearing no.274146 of ICICI Bank for Kohli Builders & 

Developers (P) Ltd. which purported to receive the delivery of money i.e.

Rs.40,000/­ on 07.06.2007 and the accused fraudulently & dishonestly used as 

FIR no. 289/07 State Vs Gagandeep 1 of 9 2 genuine the said cheque bearing no.274146 for Rs.40,000/­ which he had 

knowledge and has reasons to believe to be forged document and also same was 

forged by the accused with a purpose of committing cheating and attempted to 

commit cheating by using the said forged cheque for the purpose of encashment 

the same, to cause wrongful gain to him and wrongful loss to ICICI Bank Ltd. and 

complainant. 2. Charge­sheet was filed in the court u/s 420 / 468 / 471 / 511 / 34 IPC and 

the accused was supplied complete set of documents. Thereafter, vide order dated 

24.11.2008, charge for the offence punishable u/s 420, 467, 468, 471, 511 IPC framed against the accused, to which, he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 3. In order to prove charges against the accused, the prosecution has 

examined seven witnesses. Complainant Sh.Sanjeev Sharma, Branch Manager, 

ICICI Bank was examined as PW­1, Sh.Ravi Kohli (account holder) was examined 

as PW­2, Sh.Ram Naresh Thakur (accountant of account holder) was examined as 

PW­3, HC Kailash Chand was examined as PW­4, HC Hawa Singh, who was the 

Duty Officer, was examined as PW­5, IO/SI Lala Ram was examined as PW­6 and 

Sh.Harish Kumar was examined as PW­7. The following documents were 

exhibited in the prosecution evidence: ­ (i) Complaint ­ Ex.PW1/A (ii) Seizure memo of the cheque ­ Ex.PW1/B (iii) Arrest memo ­ Ex.PW1/C (iv) Personal search memo ­ Ex.PW1/D (v) Disclosure statement of the accused ­ Ex.PW1/E

FIR no. 289/07 State Vs Gagandeep 2 of 9 3 (vi) Site Plan ­ Ex.PW1/F (vii) Statement of Sh.Ravi Kohli ­ Ex.PW2/A (viii) Pointing out memo ­ Ex.PW4/A (ix) Copy of FIR ­ Ex.PW5/A (x) Cheque in question bearing no. 274146 ­ Ex.P­1 (xi) Original cheque bearing no. 274146 ­ Ex.P­2 4. The statement of the accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C. was recorded separately, 

wherein he denied the deposition of witnesses against him being false and 

interested witnesses. Accused did not lead any defence evidence. 5. Arguments heard. Record perused and considered carefully. 6. PW­1 deposed that on 08.06.2007, he was posted as Branch Manager 

ICICI Bank, New Friends Colony. On that day, accused Gagandeep came to their 

branch for encashing a cheque for the amount of Rs.40,000/­ from the account of 

M/s Kohli Builders & Developers, but he (PW­1) did not remember the account 

number of the cheque. PW­1 further deposed that on checking with the account 

holder Mr. Kohli, they informed that they had not issued any such cheque to 

anyone. He informed the police and gave written complaint to the police which 

was Ex.PW1/A, which bore his signature at point 'A'. PW­1 further deposed that 

he handed over the cheque to the police, which he could identify and same was 

Ex.P­1. PW­1 further deposed that IO seized the said cheque vide seizure memo 

Ex.PW1/B. IO arrested the accused vide arrest memo Ex.PW1/C and conducted 

personal search of the accused vide memo Ex.PW1/D, both bore his signatures at 

points 'A'. IO recorded statement of accused Ex.PW1/E and also prepared site 

FIR no. 289/07 State Vs Gagandeep 3 of 9 4 plan Ex.PW1/F at his (PW­1) instance, both bore his signature at point 'A'. PW­1 

deposed in his cross­examination that he did not remember whether the accused's 

signature were on the back of the cheque. Again said, he did not put his signature 

in front of him. He made a telephonic call to the account holder, but he did not 

remember as to which telephone number i.e. land­line or mobile. PW­1 further 

deposed that police took the accused to police station for interrogation and he was 

also called by the police in the police station. Police prepared the documents in 

the police station, but he did not remember the number of papers upon which he 

put his signatures. 7. PW­2 deposed that on 07.06.2007, his accountant Ram Naresh Thakur 

received a call from ICICI Bank to inquire whether they had issued a cheque no.

274146 of Rs.40,000/­, who informed to the bank that they had not issued any such 

cheque to anyone. PW­2 further deposed that he was out of station and he landed 

at Delhi at about 05­00 p.m. and thereafter, he went to the bank. He had given his 

statement in this regard to the police Ex.PW2/A, which bore his signature at point 

'A'. PW­2 further deposed that the said cheque did not belong to his cheque book 

as the cheque of the same number was still available in their cheque book, to 

which, he had given to the police after canceling it and same is Ex.P­2. PW­2 

further deposed that on original cheque Ex.P­2, "authorized signatory" was 

written, but on the fake cheque Ex.P­1, "authorized signatories" was written. 

PW­2 deposed in his cross­examination that the accused did not present the 

cheque in his presence. PW­3 supported the deposition of PW­1. FIR no. 289/07 State Vs Gagandeep 4 of 9 5 8. PW­6/IO deposed that on 07.06.2007, the complainant Sanjeev 

Sharma, Branch Manager, ICICI Bank gave a written complaint to him and also 

produced one person whose name was disclosed as Aditya @ Gagan Deep. He 

further deposed that he made endorsement on the said complaint Ex.PW1/A at 

point 'C' and got the FIR registered. He alongwith Ct. Kailash and accused went 

to the Bank and inquiries were made from the cashier from the counter who was 

shown the cheque no.274146 dated 7.6.2007 for Rs.40,000/­. He further deposed 

that the cashier told that the said cheque is forged one. He prepared the site plan 

Ex.PW1/F, which bore his signature at point 'B'. He seized the fake cheque vide 

memo Ex.PW1/B and he arrested and carried out personal search of the accused 

vide memos Ex.PW1/C and Ex.PW1/D. He identified the accused in the court. 

He further deposed that he recorded the statement of witnesses and also recorded 

disclosure statement of the accused Ex.PW1/E. He further deposed that the 

accused shown the place of incident at Tughlakabad from where he got the 

possession of the fake cheque and he prepared pointing out memo Ex.PW4/A. He 

further deposed that during investigation, it was revealed that the accused has 

falsely pointed out the said place. The specimen handwriting and signatures of the 

accused were obtained and were sent to FSL alongwith relevant documents for 

opinion. Accused was sent to JC and he prepared challan after obtaining the FSL 

result and filed the same in the court. Ld. APP for State cross­examined the said 

witness after seeking permission from the court. In the cross­examination by Ld. 

APP for the State, PW­6 deposed that he examined the account holder of M/s 

FIR no. 289/07 State Vs Gagandeep 5 of 9 6 Kohli Builders & Developers Pvt. Ltd. and obtained the cheque of the same 

number from the account holder and placed the same on record which was Ex.P­2. 

He further deposed that Sh.R. Kohli, MD of account holder company also gave a 

written complaint Ex.PW2/A to SHO, P.S. New Friends Colony and the same was 

marked to him. PW­6 in his cross­examination done by Ld. Counsel for accused 

deposed that the accused was produced by Branch Manager Sh.Sanjeev Sharma 

alongwith 2­3 bank officials in the police station at about 07­00 p.m. The branch 

manager also produced the fake cheque. The account holder was also called in the 

police station. First of all the accused was interrogated. PW­6 further deposed 

that he also made inquiries from cashier and thereafter from account holder about 

the incident. The inquiries were made orally. All of them were called in the 

police station. PW­6 further deposed that they went to the office of property 

dealer at Tughlakabad at the instance of the accused, but it could not make out 

how the accused procured the possession of fake cheque. There was no complaint 

of theft of the said cheque. The signature of the accused were obtained on the 

back of the cheque produced by the accused in the bank by the officials of the 

bank. The official of the bank told him that the accused came in the bank for 

encashment of the cheque at about 03­00 / 03­30 p.m. PW­6 admitted that the 

accused could not encash the cheque in question and the bank officials did not 

disclose about any other associate of the accused. PW­6 further deposed that he 

was not aware whether the accused was working as an employee at Tughlakabad. 9. PW­7 deposed that in the year 2007, one person namely Bholu sent 

FIR no. 289/07 State Vs Gagandeep 6 of 9 7 the accused Gagandeep to provide job to him. The accused came at his shop, 

situated at Gali No.1, Tughlakabad Extension. Two persons also came at his shop 

and they stated that they were searching for his shop and he replied them that he 

could not help them. The accused accompanied the said two persons and all of 

them left his shop. At around 07­00 p.m., he received a call from P.S. and they 

inquired about accused from him and he stated that he did not know the accused. 

Thereafter, he went to the police station. PW­7 further deposed that he did not 

remember whether IO recorded his statement or not. As PW­7 was resiling from 

his earlier statement, therefore, he was cross­examined by Ld. APP for State after 

seeking permission from the court. PW­7 denied that the accused Gagandeep had 

come with his friend Rohit at his shop and they told him that Rohit was in search 

for a shop and on the recommendation of the accused, he gave a shop on rent to 

Rohit. PW­7 admitted that the police officials told him that the accused 

Gagandeep was apprehended by the bank officials while he was presenting a 

forged cheque to the bank. PW­7 admitted that the police recorded his statement 

Ex.PW7/A, which bore his signature at point 'B'. 10. The accused was charged for the offences u/s 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 511 IPC. However, none of the PWs deposed anything against the accused to show 

that the accused had forged the cheque in question, which is Ex.P­1, or induced the 

complainant or the account holder fraudulently and dishonestly. PW­1 Branch 

Manager, ICICI Bank, who is complainant in this case merely deposed that on 

08.06.2007, accused came to his branch and presented the cheque of Rs.40,000/­ 

FIR no. 289/07 State Vs Gagandeep 7 of 9 8 for encashment. On inquiry from the account holder, he was informed that they 

did not issue any such cheque to anyone. PW­1 informed the police that the 

accused was also present at that time. The police arrested the accused and his 

arrest memo and personal search memo were prepared. From this deposition of 

PW­1, it is nowhere established that the accused fraudulently or dishonestly 

induced anyone to do or omit to do something. Similarly nothing material came in 

the deposition of PW­2 and PW­3. PW­6, who is the IO, deposed that they went to 

the office of property dealer at Tughlakabad at the instance of the accused, but he 

could not make out how the accused procured the possession of fake cheque. The 

cheque in question was also not encashed. As per the FSL result/ report, which is 

admissible u/s 293 Cr.P.C ., the specimen handwriting/signature of the accused 

also did not match with the writing/signature of the drawer of the cheque at point 

marked Q­3 and on the back of cheque at point marked Q­2 in Ex.P­1. It further 

established that the accused had not signed as drawer of the cheque in question. I 

am of the considered view that in the absence of evidence, the prosecution failed 

to prove the charges against the accused for the offences u/s 420 , 467 , 468 , 511 IPC. However, from the deposition of PW­1, PW­2, PW­3 and PW­6, it is 

established that the cheque Ex.P­1 presented by the accused for encashment in the 

ICICI Bank was forged one. The original cheque Ex.P­2 was also produced by the 

PW­2. It is also established that the accused was apprehended in the ICICI Bank 

when he presented the said cheque for encashment. From all these facts, it is 

established that the accused has used the forged cheque. The accused in his 

FIR no. 289/07 State Vs Gagandeep 8 of 9 9 statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. did not state how he had come in possession of forged 

cheque. The specimen handwriting of the accused found similar to the writing on 

the back of cheque Ex.P­1 at point marked as 'Q­1'. The accused failed to explain 

how his signature/writing came on the back of cheque Ex.P­1 on the point marked 

as 'Q­1'. This further established that accused had dishonestly presented a forged 

cheque for encashment and thus, used a forged cheque as genuine. Thus, all the 

ingredients of section 471 IPC are fulfilled. 11. In view of the above discussions, the accused is acquitted from the 

charges of offence u/s 420 , 467 , 468 , 511 IPC and he is convicted for the offence 

u/s 471 IPC read with section 465 IPC.