(08/05/2020)

 The appellants have filed this appeal under Section

374(2) of Cr.P.C. being aggrieved by the judgment of

conviction and order of sentence dated 31/10/2018 passed

by Special Sessions Judge, Shahdol in Sessions Trial

No.209/2007 whereby each appellant stand convicted for

the offence punishable under Section 489C of IPC and 2 sentenced to suffer RI for five years along with fine of

Rs.5,000/-, in default of payment of fine, additional RI

for three months. 2. The case of prosecution against the appellants, in

short, is that Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) while posted as

S.H.O. of Police Station, Kotwali, Shahdol received

information on 10/04/2007 that one Ravi Sharma alias

Gudda is dealing with fake Indian currency notes and he

is coming at bus stand with fake currency notes. SHO-

Vijay Pratap Singh called two Panch witnesses

Chandrakant Soni (PW-10) and Md Jakir khan (PW-3).

and after informing them recorded the said information in

Rojnamcha Sanha (Ex.P/1) and moved to spot along with

panch witnesses, ASI Pradeep Dwivedi (PW-8),

Constable Arvind Pyasi (PW-7), Swatantra Singh, Arvind

Dubey, Mahesh Yadav, Satya Narayan (PW-4), Rahees

Khan, Pramod Pandey, Shailendra Chaturvedi and driver

Chandra Prakas in Government Vehicle No.M.P.03 5682

and recorded that Ravangi(outgoing) in Rojnamcha Sanha

(Ex.P/31). 3. Ravi Sharma met at bus stand and he was informed

about his search. Vijay Pratap Singh first made his search

along other companions in front of Ravi Sharma and

prepared Panchnama Ex.P/2 and P/3 in this regard.

Thereafter started searching of Ravi Sharma and found 72

note of Rs.500/-denomination and 190 notes of Rs.100/-

denomination counterfeit Indian currency notes in his

possession and after perusal of the whole notes, it was

found that same number printed on so many notes, seized

and prepared search memo (Ex.P/4), seizure memo

(Ex.P/5) and arrested Ravi Sharma on spot, prepared

arrest memo (Ex.P/6) thereafter came back at Police

Station, recorded proceedings in the Rojnamcha Sanha

(Ex.P/32), and registered FIR as Crime No.165/2007

(Ex.P/33) at Police Station, Kotwali, Shahdol. 4. A.S.I. Pradeep Dwivedi (PW-8), on the basis of

information provided by other co-accused called

independent witnesses (Sudhir Gupta (PW-5), Satish

Gupta (PW-6) and went to police station Kotma disst.

Anuppur. Appellants- Santosh Kumar Rathore and 4 Balram Singh resident of Village Dhangawan were called

and interrogated. Appellant-Santosh Rathore furnished

information that he is having fake currency notes total

Rs.15,000/- and all notes raped in a polythene bag have

been buried in backyard of his house, on the basis of

information recorded memorandum (Ex.P/22) and in the

same way appellant-Balram Singh also furnished

information that he is having fake currency notes of

Rs.10,000/- and kept buried in the hen house, recorded

the information as memorandum (Ex.P/23)in front of both

independent witnesses at P.S. Kotma and went along with

appllent Santosh Kumar Rathore who dug out the

polythene bag and handed over to ASI Pradeep Dwivedi

(PW-8) who after seizing the notes, prepared seizure

memo (Ex.P/24) before the independent witnesses

thereafter went along with appellant-Balram Singh who

dug out the fake currency notes and handed over to ASI

Pradeep Dwivedi who after seizing the notes, prepared

seizure memo (Ex.P/25). 5. Thereafter ASI Pradeep Dwivedi (PW-8) arrested

both appellants-Santosh Kumar Rathore and Balram

Singh, prepared arrest memo and all seized notes were

sent to the Bank Note Press, Dewas for examination

through draft (Ex.P/35) of Superintendent of Police,

Distt. Shahdol. A specific report received from the bank

Note Press, Dewas (Ex.P/38) by which the currency

notes, seized from the possession of both the appellants-

Santosh Kumar Rathore and Balram Singh, were found

counterfeit Indian currency notes. After investigation,

charge sheet filed against both the appellants along with

co-accused. 6. Learned trial Court framed charges against both the

appellants who abjured the guilt and pleaded for trial.

Prosecution examined 11 witnesses to bring charges at

home. The appellants were examined under Section 313 of Cr.P.C., denied all incriminating evidence came against

them and pleaded defence that they are innocent as they

did not commit any offence and they have falsely been 6 implicated. The appellant had not produced any defence

or examined any witness in their defence. 7. Learned trial Court after hearing both the parties

delivered judgment dated 31/10/2018 whereby acquitted

both the appellants of the offence punishable under Section 489B of IPC, however, convicted them for the

offence punishable under Section 489C of IPC and

sentenced both the appellants as mentioned above. 8. The appellants being aggrieved by that conviction

and sentence have preferred this appeal on the ground that

learned trial Court has not appreciated the evidence in

proper perspective and has committed an error in

convicting both the appellants on the basis of statement of

Investigating Officer. Both independent witnesses turned

hostile and not supported the case of prosecution against

both the appellants. No ingredient of offence is made out

against the appellants. Prosecution failed to prove the

case beyond doubt against both the appellants, thus, it has

been prayed that by accepting the appeal, set aside the 7 conviction and sentence passed by the trial Court and

acquit them of the offence. 9. Per contra, learned Dy. Govt. Advocate while

supporting the impugned judgment passed by the trial

Court, submits that both the appellants were found with

counterfeit Indian currency in their possession. They did

not disclose that why they had counterfeit currency in

their possession. Sufficient material is available on

record against the appellants, therefore, prays for

dismissal of the appeal. 10. Having heard rival submissions of learned counsel

for the parties, perused the record of trial Court i.e. S.T.

No.209/2007 also perused the evidence and judgment

passed by the trial Court. 11. Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9), in his statement, stated

that on 10/04/2007 he was posted as SHO, Police Station,

Kotwali, Shahdol received a tip off that Ravi Sharma alias

Gudda R/o Chandiya is coming with fake currency notes

and he deals with the fake currency. This witness called

Panch witnesses-Chandraprakash Soni and Mohd. Jakir 8 Khan and after recording the information in the

Rojnamcha Sanha went to bus stand along with other

Police escort where he found Ravi Sharma. This witness

interrogated Ravi Sharma. On the basis of the

information provided by Ravi Sharma, received the fake

currency notes in possession of Ravi Sharma (since dead).

After coming back to Police Station, Kotwali, Distt.

Shahdol recorded proceeding in Rojnamcha Sanha

(Ex.P/32) and registered Crime No.165/2007 and lodged

FIR (Ex.P/33) at Police Station, Kotwali, Distt. Shahdol

and copy sent to CJM, Shahdol, receipt of which is

Ex.P/34. 12. ASI Pradeep Dwivedi (PW-8) stated that after

registration of FIR, on 29/05/2007 he called independent

witnesses Sudhir Gupta (PW-5) and Satish Gupta (PW-6)

for interrogation and search of appellants- Santosh Kumar

Rathore and Balram Singh and went to Police Station,

Kotma. Both appellants met this witness at Police

Station, Kotma, there he interrogated the appellants. Both

the appellants who are resident of Village Dhangawan 9 which situated under the territorial jurisdiction of Police

Station, Jaithari. Appellant-Santosh Kumar Rathore

furnished information that he had received fake currency

notes from Ramkumar Kewat and he is having fake

currency notes total Rs.15,000/- which has been buried in

backyard (Bari) of his house This witness prepared

memorandum (Ex.P/22) in this regard. In the same way

appellant-Balram Singh also furnished information that

he is having total Rs.10,000/- fake currency notes which

has been buried in the hen house. This witness prepared

memorandum (Ex.P/23) in this regard. 13. ASI Pradeep Dwivedi (PW-8) further stated that he

went with both the appellants to their village Dhangawan

along with independent witnesses and appellant-Santosh

Kumar Rathore provided fake notes total Rs.15,000/-. In

that notes, ten notes of Rs.500 denomination and 100

notes of Rs.100/- denomination- and this witness

prepared seizure memo (Ex.P/24). This witness also

stated that appellant-Balram Singh also provided fake

currency notes in which ten notes of Rs.500/- 10 denomination and 50 notes of Rs.100/-denomination .

This witness prepared seizure memo (Ex.P/25) before the

independent witnesses. 14. Vijay Pratap Singh (PW-9) stated that he sent all

seized notes for examination to the Manager, Bank Note

Press, Dewas through draft (Ex.P/35) of Superintendent

of Police, Shahdol and received examination report

(Ex.P/38) and all notes seized at the instance of both the

appellants, were found counterfeit Indian currency. 15. Perused Ex.P/22, P/23, P/24, P/25. All these

proceedings had been conducted before the independent

witnesses i.e. Sudhir Gupta (PW-5) and Satish Gupta

(PW-6). Satish Gupta (PW-6) turned hostile and has not

supported the proceeding of Ex.P/22, P/23, P/24, P/25

and categorically stated that above proceeding had not

been done before him. He had signed on the blank papers

and in cross-examination, he admitted that he signed on

the blank papers at the instructions of Police. 16. Another witness i.e. Sudhir Gupta (PW-5) stated

that appellants-Santosh Kumar Rathore and Balram Singh 11 were interrogated by the Police and they furnished

information about fake currency and about place where

they kept the fake currency notes and further stated that

Police took both appellants- Santosh Kumar Rathore and

Balram Singh at their residence. Both appellants dug out

the currency. This witness further stated that Police

counted the notes before this witnesses and also stated

that Police seized 100 number of Rs.100/-denomination

notes and 10 number of Rs.500/- denomination notes

from the appellant-Santosh Kumar Rathore and further

stated that Police seized 50 number of Rs.100/-

denomination notes and 10 number of Rs.500/-

denomination from appellant-Balram and all notes were

fake. This witness supported the memorandum (Ex.P/22)

of appellant-Santosh Kumar Rathore and memorandum

(Ex.P/23) of appellant- Balram Singh and this witness

stated that he signed on that memorandums. This witness

also supported seizer proceding, this witness signed on

that seizure memos (Ex.P/24) of appellant-Santosh

Kumar Rathore and(Ex.P/25) of appellant- Balram Singh. 12 17. ASI Pradeep Dwivedi (PW-8) identified fake notes

seized from both the appellants as Article-'1' and '2'.

Independent seizure witness Sudhir Gupta (PW-5) also

identified the notes as Article 'A' and Article 'B'. 18. Sudhir Gupta (PW-5) clearly supported the

procedings of ASI Pradeep Dwivedi (PW-8) who

recorded information furnished by appellant-Santosh

Kumar Rathore on memorandum (Ex.P/22). Perused

memorandum (Ex.P/22). There is no doubt left that

appellant-Santosh Kumar Rathore furnished information

in custody that he is having fake currency notes

Rs.15,000/- and buried it backyard of his house. ASI

Pradeep Dwivedi (PW-8) stated that appellant-Santosh

Kumar Rathore after digging out the fake notes handed

over to this witness and this witness found 10 notes of

Rs.500/- denomination and 100 notes of Rs.100/-

denomination and prepared seizure memo (Ex.P/24).

Perused seizure memo (Ex.P/24). This witness

categorically mentioned the descriptions of the notes that

how many notes are having the same number. Sudhir 13 Gupta (PW-5) also supported this fact and categorically

stated that appellant-Santosh Kumar Rathore dug out the

notes and after seeing notes in the Court, stated that these

notes were seized from the possession of appellnat-

Santosh Kumar Rathore and Investigating Officer

recorded detail of all serial number in seizure memo. 19. Perused cross-examination of ASI Pradeep Dwivedi

(PW-8). On perusal of cross-examination of this witness,

nothing has come in his statement that this witness is

having any revenge attitude or animosity against

appellant-Santosh Kumar Rathore for implicating him

falsely. In the same way, Sudhir Gupta (PW-5)

categorically supported the statement of chief

examination in his cross examination. In para-13 this

witness categorically stated that he was present on the

spot where notes had been dug out. 20. On the basis of forgoing discussions, there is no

doubt left that appellant-Santosh Kumar Rathore was

having fake currency notes and the fake notes found in

his conscious and exclusive possession and same number 14 was printed on more than one of fake currency notes.

Seized notes were sent for examination to the Bank Note

Press, Dewas. Ex.P/38 is the expert report. Perused the

expert report, it is reflected that the notes seized from

possession of appellant- Santosh Kumar Rathore were

found counterfeit, this Court is of the firm opinion that

prosecution succeeded to prove that counterfeit fake

Indian currency notes were found in possession of

appellant-Santosh Kumar Rathore. 21. ASI Pradeep Dwivedi (PW-8) recorded the

information furnished by appellant-Balram Singh in

custody and prepared memorandum (Ex.P/23). This

witness categorically stated that appellant-Balram Singh

provided an information that he is having fake currency

notes Rs.10,000/- and kept buried in the hen house. This

fact is supported by independent witness- Sudhir Gupta

(PW-5) who was present at that time and signed on the

documents. This witness further stated that appellant-

Balram Singh took him to the place where he buried the

notes and after digging out, provided the currency notes 15 to the Investigating Officer. After perusal of the

statement of both the witnesses, this fact clearly came out

that on perusal of the currency notes, they found 10 notes

of Rs.500/- denomintaion and 50 notes of Rs.100/-

denomination and same serial number printed on so many

notes. After perusal of cross-examination of both

witnesses, nothing has come out that both witnesses are

having any revenge attitude or animosity against

appellant -Balram Singh for implicating him falsely. 22. On the basis of forgoing discussions, this Court is

of the opinion that prosecution succeeded to prove that

appellant-Balram Singh was found in conscious and

exclusive possession of the fake currency notes and that

notes sent to the examiner by draft (Ex.P/35) and received

report (Ex.P/38). On perusal of the report (Ex.P/38), it is

reflected that all seized notes were found counterfeit

Indian currency notes having same number. 23. Learned counsel for the appellants submits that both

the appellants were not knowing or having reasons to

believe the same to be forged or counterfeit and not 16 intending to use the same as genuine, hence, no

ingredients of offence under Section 489C of IPC is made

out. Learned counsel for the appellants has placed

reliance upon the judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in the

cases of Umashanker Vs. State of Chhattisgarh ,

(2001) 9 SCC 642, and M. Mammutti Vs. State of

Karnataka, (1970) 4 SCC 723. Learned counsel also

placed reliance upon the judgment of Kerala High Court

in the case of Karunakaran Nadar Vs. State of Kerala ,

2000 SC Online Ker 417 and also placed reliance upon the judgment of Calcutta High Court in the case of Jiban

Sasmal Vs. The State of West Bengal, 1987 SCC

Online Cal 114. 24. Perused all the case-laws. In the case of Umashanker (supra), appellant purchased mango of

Rs.5/- and provided Rs.100/- bank note to the seller who

on doubting upon that note informed the Police and that

note of Rs.100 denomination found forged, thus, in these

circumstances, Hon'ble Apex Court found that the

applicant was not having any mens rea and having a 17 knowledge that question note was forged, on that basis

acquitted the appellant of that case for the offence under Sections 489B and 489C of IPC. In para-8 of the said

case, Hon'ble Apex Court held as under : 25. In the case of M. Mammutti (supra), Hon'ble

Apex Court held that prosecution has to put a specific

question to the appellant of that case in order to find out

whether the accused knew that the questioned notes were

of nature of forged or counterfeit currency note. If the 18 appellant is not having any knowledge that whatever he is

having, are forged, no ingredients of Section 489B and 489C are made out. If the notes were of such a nature

that mere look in them would convince anybody that it

was counterfeit such a presumption could reasonable be

drawn. 26. In the case of Karunakaran Nadar (supra),

Kerala High Court found that it was not a fake currency,

but it was fancy currency because note was not

counterfeit. It was a fancy note having printed on that

note Reserve Baby of India, on this ground, Kerala High

Court held that the note was not counterfeit and forged

bank currency note and being a fancy note, acquitted the

appellant of that case. 27. In the case of Jiban Sasmal (supra), appellant

abetted Rampada Samanta to use counterfeit note as

genuine in the market of Rs.10/- denomination. Police

seized counterfeit notes in possession of appellant and the

appellant of that case was charged for the offence

punishable under Section 489B and 489C read with 19 Section 109 of IPC, in that situation, Single Bench of

Calcutta High Court found that ingredients of Section 109 of IPC has not been proved and learned trial Court not

framed charge under Section 116 of IPC, in these respect,

the appellant of that case cannot be convicted under Section 109 of IPC and acquitted him. Facts of this case

is totally different from the pending case. 28. Learned counsel appearing for the appellants

submits that recently Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of

Dipakbhai Jagdishchandra Patel Vs State of Gujrat

and others in Criminal Appeal No.714/2019 (arising

out of SLP (Criminal) No.5415/2017) on the same

ground discharged the appellant of the offence punishable

under under Section 489B and 489C of IPC and

submitted a print copy of that case-law. Perused. Facts

of that case are that three co-accused found a counterfeit

currency note of Arabian country and one of co-accused

furnished an information that he received fake currency

from the possession of the appellant, on that basis Police

seized some notes outside the house of the appellant. 20 Hon'ble Apex Court, on these circumstances, discharged

the appellant on two counts. One; confessional statement

of co-accused pertains to the appellant was inadmissible

and no recovery was made from the house of the

appellant or in possession of the appellant in his instance.

But, in this case counterfeit Indian currency notes

recovered at the instance of the appellants herein and

seized notes were found counterfeit. 29. Ingredients which are required to constitute an

offence under Section 489C of IPC are as follows : 30. On the basis of forgoing discussions, this Court

found that prosecution succeeded to prove that accused

were found in possession of the counterfeit Indian

currency notes. Meaning thereby above three ingredients 21 have been proved by the prosecution beyond doubt.

During examination of accused under Section 313 of

Cr.P.C., appellant-Santosh Kumar Rathore was asked that

he furnished information to Pradeep Diwvedi that he

received the fake/counterfeit notes of Rs.15,000/- from

Ram Kumar Kewat and packed in a polythene and buried

din the backyard in his house. He simply replied, it is

incorrect. The Court further put a question to him that he

(appellant-Santosh Kumar Rathore) dug out the currency

notes and it was seized by Pradeep Dwivedi before the

independent witness Sudhir Gupta, he replied, it is

incorrect. The Court clearly used the word 'forged/

counterfeit notes' but appellant-Santosh Kumar Rathore

simply denied that fact in examination under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. In the same way, appellant-Balram Singh was

also asked the specific question about the fake currency,

he simply denied and not furnished any explanation that

why he has kept that forged/counterfeit currency in his

possession and kept buried that currency. As discussed

above, prosecution succeeded to prove that both the 22 appellants were found in possession of counterfeit Indian

currency notes and kept in the suspicious condition, not

furnished any explanation for keeping that forged

currency in his possession. In absence of any reasonable

explanation, adverse inference can be drawn against the

appellants that they are having a reason to believe that

notes were forged and that notes can be used as genuine. 31. The Divisional Bench of this Court in the case of Shabbir Sheik and others Vs. State of M.P. , 2018

Cr.L.J. 4126, after referring the cases of Umashankar (supra) and M. Mammuti (supra) held that adverse

inference can be drawn against accused for pleading

complete denial and inability to provide any explanation

regarding possession of forged currency notes. This

Court with the help of Section 106 and 114 (h) of the

Evidence Act infers that accused was having a knowledge

of possession of forged currency and having an intention

that currency may be used as genuine. 32. On the basis of forgoing discussions, this Court is

of the firm view that no cogent ground and material 23 available which compels this Court to interfere in the

finding of conviction under Section 489C of IPC.

Maximum punishment provided in Section 489C of IPC

is seven year. Learned trial Court imposed sentence of

five years RI to each appellant. There is no material

available on record that appellants are having a criminal

past. Considering this fact, this Court inclines to reduce

the jail sentence of appellants from five years to two years

for each appellant. 33. Considering the above, this appeal is partly allowed

on the point of sentence. Conviction under Section 489C of IPC of the appellants is hereby affirmed. However, the

sentence of imprisonment is reduced from five years RI to

three years RI for each appellant and fine sentence with

default stipulation remains uninterfered. 34. With the aforesaid modification in sentence, this

appeal stands disposed of. If any IA is pending, the same

stands disposed of. (Vishnu Pratap Singh Chauhan)
 Judge
ts Digitally signed by TULSA SINGH Date: 2020.05.08 11:32:53 +05'30' 24