Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr.MP(M) No. 1799 of 2024
 Reserved on: 25.10.2024
 Decided on: 12.11.2024
Vijay Kumar Juneja
 ....Petitioner
 Versus
State of Himachal Pradesh
 ...Respondent

Coram
The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Sushil Kukreja, Judge
Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes. For the petitioner: Mr. Ajay Kochhar, Sr. Advocate, with
 Mr. Varun Chauhan and Mr. Anubhav
 Chopra, Advocates. For the respondent: Mr. Anup Rattan, Advocate General, with
 Mr. Dalip K. Sharma, Additional Advocate
 General, Mr. Raj Negi, Ms. Swati Draik,
 Deputy Advocates General and Mr. Rajat
 Chaudhary, Assistant Advocate General. ____________________________________________________
Sushil Kukreja, Judge

 The instant bail application has been filed by the

petitioner under Section 482 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha

Sanhita (for short BNSS) for releasing him on bail in case FIR

No. 120 of 2023, dated 24.09.2023, under Sections 420 and 120B of Indian Penal Code (for short IPC ), read with Section 59

of the HP Protection of Interest of Depositors Act, 199 and Sections 21 and 23 of the Banning of Unregulated Deposit 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? 2 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

Schemes Act, 2019, registered at Police Station Palampur,

District Kangra, Himachal Pradesh. 2. The facts of the case, which emerge from the record,

are encapsulated as under: 3 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

increase in investments. Resultantly, many people invested and

on 25th December allocations were halted by Subhash Sharma

and later he assured that allocations would resume soon.

Subsequently, Subhash Sharma tied up with Hypenext, which

was owned by Milan Garg of Meerut. On being persuaded, the

people invested and reinvested in Hypenext again and people

also received partial funds against their investments and such

practice continued till 2022. Thereafter, the company declared

inability to provide returns due to technical problems requesting

five months' time for payment and qua this both Subhash

Sharma and Milan Garg informed the entire community through a

video. In total, the amount involved was rupees eighteen crores

and they acknowledged and promised to activate new IDs on 8th

August, 2023 at Aglobal.io, however, as per the complainant

neither his community nor he received any money. The

complainant alleged that Subhash Sharma, Hemraj, Milan Garg,

Sukhdev Thakur and Abhishek Sharma defrauded the people by

creating fake website and it was a well-planned conspiracy.

2(c). As per the FIR, the above said persons were involved

in fraudulent activities related to crypto currency and they enticed

the people to invest substantial amount(s), promising high

returns, which resulted in a collective loss of eighteen crore
 4 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

rupees to the complainant and his associates. On 26.09.2023 a

Special Investigation Team (SIT) was constituted, which was

headed by DIG of Northern Range, Dharamshala, for

investigating various crypto currency related fraud cases across

the State. 2(d). It was unearthed that the modus operandi of the

alleged fraud involved alluring individuals with promise of high

returns on crypto currency investments, creating a network of

investors, who recruited others, manipulating crypto currency

prices and ultimately causing financial loss to the victims. It was

further unearthed that the accused persons used a combination

of misinformation, deception and threats to maintain control over

their scheme and continued extracting money from unsuspecting

investors. 2(e). During the course of the investigation, a confession

was received at email id of Palampur Police Station from the

email id of Subhash Sharma aforesaid. In the said email

Subhash Sharma submitted that for the past 10-12 years, he had

been residing at his permanent address at Zirakpur and recently

he had to move abroad due to some family issues. During his

time abroad, he was informed about the allegations related to

crypto currency against him and some associates, leading to the
 5 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

filing of an FIR, which was being investigated by the SIT. He

further clarified that he had no intention of escaping these

allegations by staying abroad and when he left the country, no

FIR or any such allegation was against him. He did not sell his

assets or engaged in any wrongdoing before leaving. His family,

including his children and parents, continued to live in India and

his wife and children later on joined him abroad due to threats of

some individuals. He came to know about the actions of Vijay

Kumar Juneja (petitioner herein) and his family. He was involved

in a property business with the petitioner, where he had invested

70% of the funds in various properties. After 2017-18 Vijay

Juneja and his family purchased several properties with his

significant financial contribution. They own Juneja Square, VIP

Road Plot and Nabha village Land and additionally Vijay Juneja's

name was on some properties solely due to their agreement,

where he provided the majority of the funds, i.e., VIP Road Plot,

worth rupees six crores, Juneja Square, worth rupees ten crores

and other properties including 4 acres of land, half of which was

registered in his and Vijay's names, with 70% of the funds

provided by him. 2(f). Subhash Sharma further stated that after the

registration of FIR, the petitioner sold some of the properties and
 6 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

he kept the proceeds thereof. He urged to freeze these

properties to secure them until the case was resolved. The

petitioner was having signatory authority over their joint bank

accounts in Kotak Mahindra, Yes Bank and ICICI Bank and he

withdrew the payments made into these accounts by using

forged signatures. The petitioner was a small-time employee at

Royal Estate and after meeting him and his team, he acquired

properties like Juneja Square and handled significant crypto

funds. Various leaders and associates transferred large sums to

him and the same were misused. As per Subhash Sharma, the

petitioner, alongwith his family, embezzled funds worth

approximately 25-30 crore rupees from him and Subhash

Sharma aforesaid requested the SIT and the State Government

to freeze all their assets and ensure recovery until the legal

verdict. 3. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner contended

that the petitioner is innocent and a false case has been foisted

against him. He further contended that there is no allegation

against the petitioner that he had allured anyone to invest in

crypto currency scheme or had ever induced them to part with

duped money or he is the beneficiary of any amount allegedly

invested by various persons in the scheme of cryptocurrency. He
 7 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

also contended that at the time of the investment of the money,

the petitioner had no knowledge that accused Subhash Sharma

was involved in the scheme of the crypto currency. There is no

allegation against the petitioner in all the charge-sheets, which

have been filed by the investigating agency against the accused

persons before the learned Trial Court. The further contention of

the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner is that the petitioner

has been joining the investigation and has always co-operated

with the investigating agency and therefore no fruitful purpose

would be served in case his bail application is rejected. 4. Conversely, the learned Advocate General has

contended that the substantial gains, which were acquired by

accused Subhash Sharma and other accused persons, i.e.,

Hemraj, Sukhdev, Abhishek Sharma and Milan Garg etc.,

through the fraudulent scheme of crypto currency, were invested

in acquiring the valuable assets, i.e., movable and immovable

properties at different places through the present petitioner. He

has further contended that the instant is a case of huge

economic offence and the investigation reveals the involvement

of the petitioner in the alleged offence. He has also contended

that in case the petitioner is enlarged on bail, at this stage, he

may flee from justice or even tamper with the prosecution
 8 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

evidence, therefore, the instant bail application, which is devoid

of merits, may be dismissed. 5. I have given my considered though to the rival

contentions raised and also gone through the police file as well

as the status report(s) filed by the prosecution. 6. No doubt at the stage of granting bail, detailed

examination of evidence and elaborate discussions on merits of

the case need not be taken but the order must reflect the

reasons for arriving at a prima facie conclusion as to why bail is

being granted or refused, particularly when the accused-

petitioner is charged with the commission of economic offences. 7. In the case on hand, as per the material available on

record, during the investigation it was unearthed that the

petitioner Vijay had a longstanding relation with Subhash

Sharma and when Subhash started the Korvio Community, he

collected cash from the investors for investment. Initially, the

cash was invested in digital currency and when Subhash met the

petitioner, the petitioner proposed investing in cash in real estate

for higher returns. It was unearthed during the investigation that

on the persuasion of the petitioner, Subhash Sharma directed

Hemraj, Sukhdev, Abhishek, Vipin, Govind Goswami, Vishal

Verma, Sanjay Saklani, Dharmender, Suresh and Omprakash to
 9 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

hand over the collected cash to the petitioner and the petitioner

opened join bank accounts with Subhash Sharma and other

accused persons, viz., Hemraj, Abhishek and Sukhdev to

legitimize the funds. Petitioner Vijay Kumar entered the real

estate business in 2003 and until 2018 his accounts had shown

Rs.1,89,06,940/- and after 2018, in 15 accounts, which were

opened in the name of Juneja's family members and others,

there was cumulative credit of Rs.51,19,26,982/-. 8. The petitioner and his sons had deposited a total sum

of Rs.3,10,66,227/- in the accounts opened during the crypto

currency operations, which was primarily withdrawn by them. It

was further unearthed that most of the withdrawals occurred after

Subhash Sharma fled away from the country. The petitioner Vijay

Kumar deposited and withdrew a total sum of Rs.3,24,03,736/-

from the accounts opened in the names of his domestic help and

employees, thereby concealing the funds derived from crypto

currency transactions. 9. The petitioner by using the funds from the above

accounts purchased Juneja Square, i.e., four showrooms

adjoining Riverdale Business Center, Nabha Road, Zirakpur,

land (purchased on 27.04.2021) at Village Nabha Zirakpur, SAS

Nagar, Mohali, Punjab and Studio Apartments (purchased on
 10 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

22.12.2021) at VIP Enclave, VIP Road, Bishanpur, Zirakpur,

Mohali, Punjab. Studio apartments have been rented out and

rental income amounting to more than Rs.15,00,000/- has been

solely retained by Vijay Kumar, without sharing its proceeds with

Subhash Sharma, whose 70% funds have been used in Studio

Apartments. It was further unearthed that the petitioner

purchased 2 acres of land from a Colonel for rupees ten crores

and Subhash Sharma contributed 70% of this amount in cash

and the land was got registered for rupees two crore sixty lacs. 10. The investigation further reveals that Subhash

Sharma, through email, sent an audio recording revealing that

the petitioner is holding an amount of Rs.25 crores to 30 crores

and the said amount belongs to the crime proceeds. The

investigation further reveals that by 2018 the petitioner and his

family members maintained three bank accounts. During the

period from the year 2003 to 2018, these accounts were actively

used for transactions and cumulative sum of Rs.1,89,06,940/-

was credited and debited. The transactions were primarily

associated with the real estate business activities. It has come in

the investigation that on 17.01.2020 a tour was organized by the

petitioner and Subhash Sharma to Thailand, which was

specifically arranged for leaders of crypto community for
 11 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

promoting a crypto-based MLM scheme and one Neeraj Jain

was co-ordinating the logistics of the tour. 11. It has come in the investigation that the petitioner

opened three joint bank accounts with Subash Sharma and one

of these account also involved Hem Raj and Sukhdev. In the

said accounts total transactions of Rs.3,10,66,227/- were made

and significant withdrawals were made by the petitioner and his

family members. After the association of the petitioner with

Subhash Sharma in 2018, the petitioner opened 15 additional

bank accounts in his and in his family's name. As per the

investigation, these accounts were used for transactions of

Rs.51,19,26,982/-. The investigation also shows that since the

year 2020, the petitioner is managing and routing considerable

amounts through the accounts of his servants and employees

and total amount of Rs.3,24,03,736/- has been handled. The

petitioner has rented out all the studio joint apartments, utilizing

70% of the funds allegedly provided by Subhash Sharma and the

rental income, which exceeds Rs.15,00,000/- was retained solely

by the petitioner and he did not share this income with Subhash

Sharma. 12. As per the prosecution, it has come in the

investigation that the petitioner entered into a 10% share
 12 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

agreement for Juneja Square with Subhash Sharma and Hemraj,

but subsequently he got transferred the property in his own name

and the total value of this property is Rs.2 crore. The petitioner

had recently transferred Rs.3,60,00,000/- to various accounts

from his personal bank accounts and such sudden movement of

funds raises concerns and warrants further scrutiny to

understand the underlying intentions and to ensure that these

funds are not used to undermine the legal process. 13. The investigation further reveals that the petitioner

was also involved in unauthorized sale of property jointly owned

by Subhash Sharma, leading to illegal accumulation of assets.

The petitioner and Subhash Sharma jointly purchased land from

a Retired Colonel Paramjeet Singh and this land was subdivided

into 44 plots, out of which 32 plots were sold by the petitioner

after the registration of FIR, without the consent of Subhash

Sharma, 10 plots belonging to Subhash Sharma were intended

to be seized as part of the legal proceedings, but these plots

were sold by the petitioner for Rs.35,00,000/- each. 14. It was unearthed in the investigation that on

06.01.2022, the petitioner and Colonel Parmjeet Singh agreed on

2 acres of land. Hemraj had already paid Rs.1,11,00,000/- in

cash and Rs.25,00,000/- through bank account, with a total
 13 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

agreed purchase amount of Rs.11 crores. Hemraj had left Rs.6

crores with the petitioner for this land, but after the arrest of

Hemraj on 02.10.2023, the petitioner got registered the property

in his and his son Masoom Juneja's name for Rs.4,50,00,000/-,

despite the fact that Hemraj had already paid Rs.7,36,00,000/-.

Furthermore, it has come to light that the petitioner entered into

an agreement worth Rs.39 crores with one Prem Singh, who had

deposited Rs.3.75 crores in this Court. This demonstrates the

involvement of the petitioner in substantial financial dealings

stemming from the proceeds of the crime. 15. Thus, from the investigation, prima facie, it is evident

that the petitioner is involved in the economic offences of huge

magnitude. Economic offences are considered grave offences as

it affects the economy of the country as a whole and such

offences having deep rooted conspiracy and involving huge loss

of public fund are to be viewed seriously. Economic offence is

committed with cool calculation and deliberate design solely with

an eye on personal profit regardless of the consequence to the

community. In such type of offences, while granting bail, the

Court has to keep in mind, inter alia, the larger interest of public

and State. The nature and seriousness of an economic offence

and its impact on the society are always important considerations
 14 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

in such a case and those aspects must squarely be dealt with by

the Court while passing an order on bail applications. 16. The law relating to bail in a case of economic

offences is more or less settled in a catena of decisions of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court. It would be useful at this point to give a

conspectus of the law and the principles for grant of bail in case

of economic offences. Extracts from some of the most relevant

and topical judgments on this point are set-out in the paragraphs

that follow. 17. In the case of State of Gujrat vs. Mohan Lal

Jitamalji Porwal reported in AIR 1987 SC 1321, it is held as

follows:- 18. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Y.S.

Jagan Mohan Reddy vs. CBI , (2013) 7 SCC 439 in paras 34

and 35 in respect of granting bail in economic offences having
 15 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

deep rooted conspiracy and large public money involved, has

held as under:- 19. In the case of Nimmagadda Prasad vs. CBI , (2013)

7 SCC 466 the Supreme Court has observed that the alarming

rise in white collar crimes has affected the fiber of country's

economic structure. Economic offences have serious

repercussions on the development of the country as a whole.

Economic offences constitute a class apart and a different

approach has to be adopted in the matter of bail. Para 23 to 25

of the aforesaid judgment are extracted hereinbelow:- 24. While granting bail, the court has to keep in mind
 the nature of accusations, the nature of evidence in
 support thereof, the severity of the punishment
 which conviction will entail, the character of the
 accused, circumstances which are peculiar to the
 accused, reasonable possibility of securing the
 presence of the accused at the trial, reasonable
 apprehension of the witnesses being tampered
 with, the larger interests of the public/State and
 other similar considerations. It has also to be kept
 in mind that for the purpose of granting bail, the
 legislature has used the words "reasonable
 grounds for believing" instead of "the evidence" 25. Economic offences constitute a class apart and
 need to be visited with a different approach in the
 matter of bail. The economic offence having deep-
 rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of
 public funds needs to be viewed seriously and
 considered as a grave offence affecting the
 economy of the country as a whole and thereby
 posing serious threat to the financial health of the
 country." 20. In a judgment rendered in the case of State of Bihar

Vs. Amit Kumar , (2017) 13 SCC 751, it has been held that

while considering the bail involving socio-economic offences
 17 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

stringent parameters should be applied. Paras 8-9 of the said

judgment are extracted hereunder:- 21. In a recent decision in Tarun Kumar Vs. Assistant

Director Directorate of Enforcement , reported in 2023 SCC

OnLine SC 1486, it has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court as under: "22. Lastly, it may be noted that as held in catena of
 decisions, the economic offences constitute a
 class apart and need to be visited with a different
 approach in the matter of bail. The economic
 offences having deep-rooted conspiracies and
 18 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )
 involving huge loss of public funds need to be
 viewed seriously and considered as grave offences
 affecting the economy of the country as a whole
 and thereby posing serious threat to the financial
 health of the country. Undoubtedly, economic
 offences have serious repercussions on the
 development of the country as a whole. To cite a
 few judgments in this regard are Y.S. Jagan Mohan
 Reddy v. Central Bureau of Investigation , Nimmagadda Prasad v. Central Bureau of
 Investigation , Gautam Kundu v. Directorate of
 Enforcement ( supra), State of Bihar v. Amit Kumar alias Bachcha Rai. This court taking a serious note
 with regard to the economic offences had observed
 as back as in 1987 in case of State of Gujarat v.
 Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal as under:-- 22. The Hon'ble Supreme Court, in case titled as " P.

Chidambaram vs. Directorate of Enforcement ", (2019) 9 SCC

24, while dealing with economic offences, has held that the

power of anticipatory bail should be sparingly exercised in

economic offences. The relevant extract of this judgment is

reproduced as under:- 23. The aforesaid view was reiterated by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in " Serious Fraud Investigation Officer vs.

Nittin Johari and another ", (2019) 9 SCC 165, wherein, it set

aside the order of High Court of Delhi granting bail to the

accused therein and held that 24."...it is necessary to advert to the principles
 governing the grant of bail under Section 439 of the
 Cr.P.C. Specifically, heed must be paid to the
 stringent view taken by this Court towards grant of
 bail with respect of economic offences....." 24. In the instant case, the investigation prima facie reveals

that the petitioner Vijay Kumar Juneja had been actively

managing the cash collected from the victims of the crypto

currency fraud and he has invested this cash into various

properties, most of which were acquired jointly with other co-

accused persons. As per the prosecution, there is strong

evidence against the petitioner that the substantial gains worth

crores of rupees, which were acquired through the fraudulent

scheme of crypto currency by accused Subhash Sharma and

other accused persons, i.e., Hemraj, Sukhdev, Abhishek Sharma
 21 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

and Milan Garg etc., were invested in acquiring the valuable

assets, i.e., movable and immovable properties at different

places through the present petitioner. The prosecution further

alleged that the original agreements, which are with the

petitioner, are yet to be recovered, as the same are important to

detect the money trail and unearth the involvement of other

persons. Therefore, in the opinion of this court, as the petitioner

is prima facie alleged to be involved in the economic offences of

huge magnitude, he cannot claim anticipatory bail as a matter of

right. It is a settled law that the provisions for grant of

anticipatory bail under Section 482 of BNSS are not to be

mechanically applied. Nature and gravity of the offence, the

position and status of the accused with reference to the victim

and witnesses, likelihood of the accused fleeing from justice,

possibility of the accused tampering with the evidence and larger

public interest are some of the considerations which must weigh

with the Court while deciding the application for grant of

anticipatory bail. Liberty of a citizen is indeed of a paramount

importance, but at the same time, fair and fearless investigation

of case of a serious nature is of no less importance. The Court

shall refrain from exercising its discretion in favour of the

accused under Section 482 of BNSS if it adversely affects the
 22 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

investigation and larger public interest. In view of the serious

nature of allegations against them, a wall cannot be created

between the Investigating Agency and the petitioner. Having

regard to the nature of allegations and the stage of the

investigation, in my view, the investigating agency has to be

given sufficient freedom in the process of investigation.

Moreover, at this stage, in case the petitioner is enlarged on bail,

he may flee from justice as the main accused Subhash Sharma

has absconded and fled to Dubai. The petitioner was granted

interim bail by this Court on 14.08.2024 and he was ordered to

join the investigation of the case, but as per the status report, he

is not cooperating with the Investigating Agency and had failed

to provide the necessary information. Since the petitioner is

allegedly involved in the commission of a serious offence, his

custodial interrogation is necessary for the proper investigation

of the case. 25. Therefore, in view of the facts and circumstances of the

case as the investigation in this case is still in progress, grant of

anticipatory bail to the petitioner is likely to hamper the progress

of the investigation as such, this Court does not find any

exceptional ground to exercise its discretionary jurisdiction under Section 482 of BNSS to grant him anticipatory bail as such, the
 23 Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:11122 )

present anticipatory bail application is liable to be dismissed

being devoid of merits. 26. Accordingly, the bail application filed by the petitioner

is dismissed and the interim protection granted to him vide order

dated 14.08.2024 shall stand withdrawn. 27. Before parting with this order, it is hereby clarified

that the aforesaid observations made in this order, have been

made only for the purpose of considering the present petition for

anticipatory bail. Therefore, the same shall not come in the way

of the trial court for considering the application that may be filed

by the petitioner for regular bail or at the time of the trial and the

trial Court concerned shall not be influenced by the observations

made hereinabove.