V. KAMESWAR RAO, J 1. The challenge in this writ petition is to an order dated
 December 2, 2020, passed by the Central Administrative Tribunal,
 Principal Bench, („Tribunal‟, for short) in Original Application
 No.3421/2019 („OA‟, for short) whereby the Tribunal has allowed the
 OA filed by the respondent herein, thereby setting aside the order of
 punishment passed against the respondent with a further observation
 that it shall be open to the Disciplinary Authority to pass a fresh order,
 keeping in view, the findings and observations in the order. The Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 1 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 Tribunal was of the view that in case the Disciplinary Authority feels
 that punishment needs to be imposed, it shall be one which does not
 come in the way of the entitlement of the respondent to be promoted,
 subject to his otherwise being found fit. It also directed that if any
 sealed cover was maintained, it shall be opened and consequential
 steps shall be taken. 2. The facts as noted from the record are that the respondent is an
 officer of Indian Foreign Service (IFS) of 1990 batch. He earned
 various promotions while working as Joint Secretary in the Ministry of
 External Affairs. He was issued a charge memo dated February 23,
 2017 alleging that he had a child through a woman, whom he did not
 legally marry; that he obtained a birth certificate fraudulently from
 Nagarapalika Parishad, Chandpur, Bijnor, UP in respect of the child;
 and a passport on the basis of the same. He was also placed under
 suspension, but was reinstated after sometime. 3. The respondent submitted his reply to the charge memo. The
 case setup by the respondent in his reply was that he had a child
 through a woman by name Ms. GG, a Mongolian national through an
 arrangement of surrogacy and that he did not have any illicit relation
 with her. He further stated that though he had a birth certificate for the
 child, from the United States of America („USA‟, for short), it became
 necessary to obtain a birth certificate from an authority in India, for the
 purpose of obtaining a passport for the surrogate child, and that the
 same was presented for obtaining passport. 4. It was his case that none of the authorities who issued the
 certificates, have ever stated that any misrepresentation was made or Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 2 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 fraud was played and that the charges framed against him are without
 any basis. His case was also that the entire episode is the result of an
 anonymous letter sent by an employee in a Foreign Embassy, who was
 dismissed for acts of misconduct, and that the very initiation of the
 proceedings against him was without any legal or factual basis.
 Pursuant to the departmental inquiry, the Disciplinary Authority
 imposed the penalty of reduction to the next lower post for a period of
 two years, which shall be a bar for promotion of the respondent during
 such period, with a further direction that on promotion on the expiry of
 the period of two years, the reduction to the lower post shall not
 operate to postpone the future increments of pay and that he shall
 regain his original seniority in the next higher post. 5. The OA was filed with a prayer to declare the entire
 disciplinary proceedings as illegal and violative of Central Civil
 Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965 („CCS
 (CCA) Rules‟, hereinafter) and to quash the charge memo dated
 February 23, 2017 and the order of punishment dated July 31, 2019.
 He also made a prayer for promotion, by opening the sealed cover and
 to extend consequential benefits thereof. In fact, he sought the benefit
 of the judgment dated March 22, 2018 in OA.30/2018 filed by one Ms.
 Devyani Khobragade. 6. The case of the respondent before the Tribunal was that he had
 an unblemished service, spread over several decades and the charge
 sheet was issued on the basis of an anonymous letter submitted by an
 indisciplined employee in the Foreign Embassy. As a matter of policy,
 disciplinary proceedings are not initiated on the basis of anonymous Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 3 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 letters. The proceedings have been initiated against the petitioner only
 with a motive to deny him promotion, which had become due at the
 relevant point of time. 7. It was also his case that the child was born out of surrogacy
 which was very much permissible in the USA at that time and no one
 connected with the surrogacy expressed any grievance, much less
 submitted any complaint. It was also his case that the birth certificate
 of the child was obtained on May 11, 2008 from the State of Illinois,
 USA. It was for the reason that it would be difficult to get a passport
 for the child on the basis of such certificate, that he approached the
 Nagarpalika Panchayat, Chandpur, State of UP and obtained a
 certificate on May 25, 2005. Hence, it cannot be said that the birth
 certificate is a fraudulent one, more so when no allegation in that
 regard has been made. It was also his case that he never had any
 relation outside his marriage and that the report of the Inquiry Officer
 is false. 8. That apart, he attacked the advice rendered by the Union
 Public Service Commission („UPSC‟, for short) by stating that it had
 travelled beyond the scope of the actual charges and has even failed to
 take into account, the manner in which the proceedings have
 originated. Further, the subject matter of the charge sheet were in the
 realm of his personal life and, totally unconnected with the official
 duties that should not damage his career. In fact, certain "softening
 clauses" in the order of punishment shows the lack of gravity in the
 entire issue. 9. The petitioners herein stated that the acts and omissions on the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 4 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 part of the respondent are very serious in nature and the articles of
 charge were proved by the Inquiry Officer. He was given full
 opportunity in the inquiry proceedings and a report of the Inquiry
 Officer was furnished to him. The reply submitted by the respondent
 was forwarded to the UPSC which in turn gave its advice and the
 impugned order was passed, duly taking into account, the said advice.
 The Tribunal has in paragraphs 14 to 23 held as under: Bijnor (Annexure R-13). It could be seen
 that all the entries made on 30.04.2005 (date
 of registration of birth) matched those in the
 birth certificate in question. Mother's name
 is shown as Akhtar Begum in the register. (b) However, two discrepancies had been
 observed in the birth register regarding
 issues which were not reflected in the birth
 certificate. First, age of the mother is shown
 as 25 years under column 18 of the register. Considering that the DOB of Smt. Akhtar
 Begum, spouse of Shri Rajashekhar, is
 25.11.1965, her age would have been 39
 years when Jaya Gayathri was bom
 (08.04.2005). Secondly, under column 19,
 against the entry for number of births
 (including the child being registered), '1' has
 been indicated. The correct entry should
 have been '3' since Jaya Gayathri is the
 third child of Shri Rajashekhar. These
 inconsistencies indicated that false entries
 has been made in the birth register. (c) Father's/Mother's permanent address in
 the birth certificate has been shown as Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 8 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 "Mohalla Patiyapara, Chandpur (Bijnor),
 UP. Although, this is again consistent with
 the relevant entry made in the birth register,
 the records available in the Ministry reveal
 that both Shri Rajashekhar and his wife
 Akhtar Begum, belong to Andhra Pradesh
 and have their bases there. There is no
 evidence in Ministry's record such as
 passport, service book, personal files, etc.,
 to suggest that they have or ever had a
 permanent home address in Chandpur,
 Distt. Bijnor, U.P. (d) The register indicated that the delivery
 was done through a „mis-wife‟. (e) The register also indicated the name of
 one Dr. Neelam Tyagi as the person who
 had given information about the birth for the
 purpose of registration. 19. What remains is the issue pertaining to the diplomatic
 passport to the child, even while the American passport was
 existing. The applicant consistently stated that the American
 passport was surrendered and he did not suppress any fact
 whatever. At any rate, wherever acts or fraud are alleged,
 they must be proved through clinching evidence, of a person
 who is available for cross examination. The acts of fraud
 are never left to be inferred, howsoever strong, the
 circumstances may be. They must be clearly pleaded and
 proved. Further a distinction needs to be drawn between an
 illegality on the one hand and an act of fraud on the other
 hand. Every wrong, be it in life of an individual, or in the
 course of administration, by itself does not become either
 fraudulent or punishable. It is only when an act is found to
 have been committed, with clear intention of promoting
 wrongful gain, that too, in violation of clear provisions of
 law, that the person can be said to have committed fraud.
 Wherever the situations are governed by provisions of law,
 there exists a mechanism to deal with such acts. Permitting
 the allegations be made and consequences to be followed, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 9 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 even while the statutory machinery remained inert, is
 something difficult, to be sustained in law. 20. It was not even mentioned anywhere that the applicant
 suppressed the factum of his having a child by name Jaya
 Gayatri or that the biological mother of the child. The
 institution of surrogacy may not be prevalent in India.
 However it has taken place in a Country where it is not
 prohibited. The applicant cannot be visited with such
 serious consequences at a time when his career reached its
 peak. 21. In our view, the UPSC has also attached greater
 importance to certain unverified facts and was guided
 mostly by the technicalities. Hardly there existed any
 element of fraud with the assertion by the authorities of
 Nagar Palika Parishad, that every fact is born on by record
 and there were no acts of fraud. The applicant did not
 disown the child. If all these aspects are put together there
 would have been at the most some technical error or
 deficiency and any act of fraud or suppression. The
 applicant was not alleged to have misused the diplomatic
 passport, issued to his child. It is here, that the need to
 examine the extenuating or aggravating circumstances, in
 the context of choosing the punishment arises. The fact that
 the applicant had an unblemished record spread over nearly
 3 decades is certainly an important extenuating
 circumstance. 22. The very fact that the UPSC as well as the DA felt that
 after lapse of two years, the applicant would be entitled to
 be resorted all the benefits, is something which indicates
 that the respondents are also of the view that the career of
 the applicant should not be damaged, beyond a point. That
 was on the basis that the charge, wherein allegations of
 fraud were held as proved. From the averments in the
 counter affidavit itself it is evident that there was no fraud
 wherever, in the process of obtaining certificate from the
 Nagar Palika Parishad, Chandpur. The cumulative effect of
 all the discussion is that notwithstanding the protective
 clauses contained therein, the order of punishment, it Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 10 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 deserves to be set aside by leaving it open to the DA to pass
 a fresh order. We are also of the view that since the UPSC
 was already consulted, there shall not be any necessity to
 consult it once again. 23. We therefore, allow the OA and set aside the order of
 punishment passed against the applicant. It shall be open to
 the Disciplinary Authority to pass a fresh order, keeping in
 view, the findings and observations in this judgement. In
 case the DA feels that the punishment needs to be imposed,
 it shall be the one which does not come in the way of the
 entitlement of the applicant to be promoted, subject to his
 otherwise being found fit, by the DPC. If any sealed cover
 was maintained, it shall be opened and consequential steps
 shall be taken. The authority shall also decide the manner in
 which the period of suspension shall be treated. There shall
 be no order as to costs." 10. It is the submission of Mr. Chetan Sharma, learned Additional
 Solicitor General assisted by Mr. Anil Soni, learned CGSC appearing
 for the Union of India, that the charge sheet was the result of a
 complaint made by one Rafael Oliva Lerre, who was the former driver
 of respondent. On the basis of the aforesaid complaint, an investigation
 was carried out by the petitioners which lead to the discovery of the
 fact that the child was born in Champaign, USA, on April 08, 2005 and
 her parents are the respondent (father) and GG, a Mongolian national
 (mother). In order to conceal the above stated birth, the respondent
 fraudulently obtained a birth certificate from Nagar Palika Parishad,
 Chandpur, Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh, which shows the place of birth of the
 child, as Chandpur, and Akhtar Begum, as her mother. The birth
 certificate which the respondent obtained in a fraudulent manner, from
 Chandpur, Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh, was used by him to obtain a
 diplomatic passport for his child and while doing so, he suppressed the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 11 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 material fact that the child had already acquired American nationality
 and passport. 11. He also stated that the respondent is married to Ms. Akhtar
 Begum. It was also stated that Rafael Oliva Lerre had in his complaint
 alleged that the respondent has two families in Havana residing in two
 separate residences. While his wife and son stayed in the Embassy
 residence, the other lady along with the child resided in another
 apartment in Havana. The complainant had recounted his ordeal of
 listening to the instructions and commands of the two women desiring
 to use the „flag car‟ at the same time. 12. Mr. Sharma, referring to the writ petition stated that though the
 Joint Secretary (LAC) had noted on the copy of her e-mail that "I have
 heard from people about him having two ladies rather than two sets of
 families but never in writing". It had been ascertained from LC Section
 that there is no chauffeur working in E /I, Havana by the name of
 Rafael Oliva Lerre. Though the instructions of DoP&T states that
 anonymous complaints are not to be acted upon, considering the
 remarks of Joint Secretary (LAC), it appeared that there might be some
 truth in the anonymous complaint. Accordingly, the Vigilance Unit
 sought response of the respondent vide letter dated October 20, 2014,
 sharing a copy of the complaint with him. On examining a note dated
 June 30, 2011 initiated by the Second Secretary (HOC), E /I Havana
 and an Office Order dated June 30, 2011, it was clearly established that
 there was indeed a person by the name of Rafael Oliva Lerro working
 as messenger-cum-chauffeur in E/I, Havana, who was terminated from
 service w.e.f. July 1, 2011. In his response dated December 14, 2014, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 12 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 the respondent accepted that Mr. Rafael Oliva Lerro was the third
 driver since his arrival in Havana. A second complaint dated March 10,
 2015, purportedly by some Cuban workers was received by the then
 Ambassador, E/I Havana. In the complaint, the complainants had
 threatened to write to the Cuban Ministry and to a Agency PALCO if
 no action was taken against the respondent. 13. While respondent was posted as the Ambassador of India in
 Cuba, Ms. GG was issued an Identity Card by the local Foreign Office.
 The Identity Card shows her as a domestic servant. Copy of her
 Mongolian passport reveals that she had obtained Cuban visa from the
 Ministry of External Relations, Cuba (MINREX) on July 13, 2012
 which was valid till June 20, 2014. Thus, Ms. GG reached Cuba in
 July, 2012, just a month after the arrival of the respondent in Havana,
 Cuba. A note dated July 08, 2014 issued by Embassy of India, Havana,
 for renewal of Cuban visa for Ms. GG mentions that she "works at the
 residence of the Ambassador of India". However, there is no evidence
 of the respondent informing the office that he was employing Ms. GG
 as his domestic assistant. 14. According to Mr. Sharma, the record says that the birth
 certificate dated April 11, 2005 of the child issued by the State of
 Illinois, USA, records the mother's name as GG (DOB:07/12/1973;
 Birth Place: Mongolia), and father's name as Rajasekhar Chinthapally
 (DOB:18/06/1964; Birth Place: India). The birth certificate also bears
 the signature of respondent. It is stated that the respondent had
 affirmed under the relevant column "I certify that the personal
 information provided on the certificate is correct to the best of my Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 13 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 knowledge and belief". The US birth certificate indicates that the child
 was born in Carle Foundation Hospital, Urbana, Champaign County,
 Illinois. 15. The Consul General of India, Chicago, vide letter dated
 February 11, 2016 forwarded an email dated February 10, 2016 from
 the State of Illinois, USA, authenticating the said birth certificate. The
 records also show another birth certificate dated May 25, 2005, issued
 by the Nagar Palika Parishad, Chandpur, District Bijnor, UP in respect
 of the girl. As per the birth certificate issued by the Nagar Palika
 Parishad, Chandpur, the birth of the girl was registered on April 30,
 2005 against registration number 212. Although the office of the
 District Magistrate, Bijnor, UP, vide letter dated April 06, 2016, has
 authenticated this birth certificate dated May 25, 2005, nevertheless,
 the following glaring irregularities are observed, in respect of the
 entries made in the Register of Births, while getting the birth
 certificate, viz.,
 "(a) Mrs. Akhtar Begum's age is shown as 25 years in the
 register; whereas, as per the MEA records, her age should
 have been 39 years, when Ms. Jaya was born, i.e., on
 08.04.2005,though there is no record indicating the date of
 birth of the respondent/ CO's spouse. However, a copy of
 her passport available on record indicates her date of birth
 as 25.11.1965, which proves that the entry in the Register of
 Births was incorrect; (b) Against the column relating to the number of births, '1'
 is written; whereas, it should have been '3', as Ms. Jaya was
 the third child of the CO at that time; (c) Although, as per the MEA records [Ex.S-21], the CO has
 had his bases in the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh (now
 Telangana), the entries in the register show his permanent Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 14 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 address as 'Mohalla Patiyapara, Chandpur, Bijnor, UP'; (d) The register shows that the delivery was done through a
 'mid-wife'." 16. It is stated that birth certificates indicate the same date of birth
 of the child, i.e., April 8, 2005. However, while the certificate issued
 from Chandpur, UP, shows the mother as Akhtar Begum, the wife of
 the respondent, the US certificate mentions the mother's name as GG
 (born in Mongolia). Father's name is identical in both the birth
 certificates. On September 25, 2007, the respondent had applied for a
 diplomatic passport for his child in the Ministry of External Affairs on
 the basis of the birth certificate dated May 25, 2005 issued by the
 Nagar Palika Parishad, Chandpur, District Bijnor, UP in connection
 with his transfer to E/I, Seoul, suppressing the fact that she already
 possessed a US citizenship and passport, by virtue of which, she was
 not an Indian citizen. On September 28, 2007, a diplomatic passport
 was issued in the name of the child. 17. The child had travelled to India on December 30, 2006 on US
 passport No.028459978, and had left India on April 21, 2007 on the
 same passport. She again travelled to India on May 06, 2007 and left
 on November 16, 2007 using the same US passport. Therefore, it is
 apparent that the child had travelled on November 16, 2007 using the
 US passport, when she was already in possession of an Indian
 diplomatic passport which was issued to her on September 28, 2007,
 though no specific evidence in this regard were available on record.
 However, this issue is not in dispute as the respondent has not denied
 the same. 18. The respondent applied for reissuance of the diplomatic Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 15 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 passport of his child, vide application dated May 2, 2012, while he was
 posted in the High Commission of India, London, before proceeding to
 his next station of posting as Ambassador of India in Cuba, based on
 the diplomatic passport, which was issued to her on September 28,
 2007. It was in this background that a charge sheet dated February 23,
 2017, was issued to the respondent under Rule 14 of the CCS (CCA)
 Rules. 19. According to Mr. Sharma, the Disciplinary Authority held an
 oral inquiry and appointed a retired IFS Officer as the Inquiring
 Authority. The respondent had admitted Articles of Charge III & VI,
 denied Articles of Charge I, II & IV and did not clearly admit or deny
 the Article of Charge V. 20. The Inquiry Officer submitted his report dated April 05, 2018,
 and concluded the first and the second Articles of Charge as not proved
 and III, IV, V and VI as proved. The Disciplinary Authority accepted
 the findings of the Inquiry Officer in respect of all of the six Articles of
 Charge. The Articles of Charge III to VI, which had been held proved
 by the Inquiry Officer, were distinctly separate from Articles of Charge
 I & II and were independent of one another and the respondent / CO is
 not acquitted from the rest of the charges just because the first and the
 second articles of charge were not proved. The copy of the Inquiry
 Report was sent to the respondent, who submitted his representation on
 the same after seeking the advice of the UPSC. The respondent also
 submitted his response to the advice of the UPSC. 21. Thereafter, on July 31, 2019, the Disciplinary Authority, in
 agreement with the advice tendered by the UPSC, imposed the major Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 16 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 penalty of reduction to next lower post for a period of two years, which
 shall be a bar to the promotion of the respondent during such period of
 two years to the post from which he was reduced, with further
 direction that on promotion on the expiry of the period of two years,
 the period of reduction to lower post shall not operate to postpone
 future increments of his pay, and he shall regain his original seniority
 in the higher post, under the rules. 22. The submission of Mr. Sharma is that the laws of surrogacy as
 prevalent in India and abroad have to be considered and therefore the
 Tribunal has committed an error in holding that the respondent cannot
 be visited with such serious consequences at a time when his career has
 reached its peak. The Tribunal has no power to suggest the quantum of
 punishment which falls exclusively within the domain of power and
 authority of Disciplinary Authority. 23. He stated that the UPSC was not guided by technicalities nor
 did it attach greater importance to ascertain unverified facts and that
 most of facts and the evidence in departmental proceedings have to be
 left to the wisdom of the Disciplinary Authority. He stated that the
 Tribunal has wrongly held that there are no acts of fraud. The Tribunal
 should not have commented on the quantum of punishment merely on
 the ground that the respondent has an unblemished record of three
 decades. 24. That apart, he stated that the Tribunal has not given any
 reasoning while interfering with the findings of the Inquiry Officer that
 the allegations of fraud were held as proved. In fact, according to Mr.
 Sharma, the Tribunal has curtailed the powers of the Disciplinary Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 17 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 Authority by directing that the punishment should be such that it would
 not come in the way of entitlement of the respondent to be promoted. 25. He stated that the Tribunal has erred in directing to open the
 sealed cover before any order has been passed by the Disciplinary
 Authority. Mr. Sharma laid stress on the following finding of the
 Tribunal: 26. He also stated that the Tribunal failed to appreciate that
 obtaining the birth certificate fraudulently, deliberately concealing it
 from the Ministry, providing false information on the same and
 acquiring a diplomatic passport makes the respondent guilty of
 violating Rules 3(1)(i), (vi) & (xviii) of CCS (Conduct) Rules, 1964
 and Rule 13 of The Passport Rules, 1980 and Rule 12 of the Indian
 Foreign Service (Conduct and Discipline) Rules, 1961. 27. He submitted that the Tribunal has overlooked the fact that the
 respondent utilised the fraudulently obtained birth certificate to procure
 diplomatic facilities to his child. That apart, the Tribunal failed to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 18 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 appreciate that the Citizenship Rules, 2009, confer authority on the
 Central Government and provides for rules of procedure in Schedule
 III of the Rules. Paragraph 3 of Schedule III states that "the fact that a
 citizen of India has obtained on any day a passport from the
 Government of any other country shall be conclusive proof of his
 having voluntarily acquired the citizenship of that country before that
 date". 28. Thus, according to Mr. Sharma, by having acquired the US
 passport, the child of the respondent had acquired the citizenship of
 USA. That apart, it was his submission that the Tribunal failed to
 appreciate that Section 4(1) of the Citizenship Act, 1955 states that
 "child born outside India on or after December 03, 2004 shall be a
 citizen of India by descent, if either of the parents (father or mother) is
 an Indian citizen at the time of birth of the child and the birth of the
 child has been registered with the concerned Indian Mission abroad
 within one year of the birth and the parents of the child have to submit
 a declaration that the child does not hold passport of another country.
 The approval of the Central Government is necessary in all such cases
 where the request for such registration is made after the expiry of the
 said period". The respondent did not abide by the procedure stated
 above, which fact has been ignored by the Tribunal. 29. According to him, a minor who has obtained a foreign passport
 before registering at an Indian Consulate cannot be registered as Indian
 Citizen under Section 4 of the Citizenship Act, 1955. This has been
 further clarified by the Ministry of Home Affairs vide letter dated
 February 02, 2011. However, a provision exists under Section 5(1)(d) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 19 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 of the Citizenship Act, 1955 for registration for citizenship of minor
 children of persons who are citizens of India by making an application
 to the Central Government. Unfortunately, the respondent did not
 reveal the fact that his child was born outside India and was in
 possession of a US passport. Further, the respondent did not apply for
 Indian citizenship for her under Section 5(1)(d) of the Citizenship Act,
 1955. 30. He also stated that the Tribunal failed to appreciate the fact
 that the respondent had taken US passport for his child before
 intimating the Ministry of External Affairs as per Rule 12 of the Indian
 Foreign Service (Conduct and Discipline) Rules, 1961. By not
 declaring to the Ministry of External Affairs the fact of possession of
 the US passport by his child, the respondent has violated Rule 12 of the
 Indian Foreign Service (Conduct and Discipline) Rules, 1961. 31. According to him, the respondent has failed to produce any
 documentary evidence to establish that there was an agreement
 amongst the stakeholders namely, his wife, Smt. Akhtar Begum;
 surrogate mother, Ms. GG and himself for the surrogacy arrangement.
 There is also no medical certificate on record to establish that Smt.
 Akhtar Begum was medically unfit to conceive. He has also not been
 able to produce any evidence, if at all that he carried out any
 consultations with any legal or medical expert for ensuring that there
 were no unforeseeable implications of this arrangement. He has also
 not been able to produce any document / evidence to establish the
 veracity of the procedure followed by the clinic for carrying out
 "artificial insemination". Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255 32. It was also the endeavour of Mr. Sharma to state that the
 Tribunal failed to appreciate that the respondent while holding a
 position of such high pedestal, fraudulently obtained an Indian birth
 certificate in violation of the prescribed guidelines / procedure, and
 then applied for an Indian diplomatic passport for his child, who was
 already holding a US passport at that time, on the basis of that birth
 certificate twice on September 25, 2007, and May 02, 2012. The
 respondent‟s conduct is considered very serious violation of the extant
 statutory provisions, and by the above mentioned act, the respondent
 displayed a lack of integrity, failed to maintain high ethical standards
 and honesty, and acted contrary to law, thereby violating Rules 3(1)(i), (vi) & (xviii) of the CCS (Conduct) Rules, 1964. 33. He stated that the second birth certificate, which was issued by
 the Nagar Palika Parishad, Chandpur, District Bijnor, UP on May 25,
 2005 was acquired by willful use of false facts, and using
 fraudulent/mala fide means. According to him, the Tribunal failed to
 appreciate the claim that this certificate was acquired without the
 knowledge of the respondent does not carry any merit at all, because it
 is proven beyond reasonable doubt that the respondent had himself
 subsequently used the same certificate while applying for an Indian
 diplomatic passport despite being fully aware about the false facts in
 the certificate. The charges I and II are not relatable to charges III to
 VI, even if the charges I and II are not proved, the charges III to VI
 having been proved, the Disciplinary Authority was within his right to
 impose the penalty as was done in the case. Though, the charges are
 not related to loss of public funds, it is still fulfils the essential Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 21 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 elements of misconduct. Further, past record / conduct will not absolve
 the respondent of any wrong committed by him. It is a clear case that
 the birth certificate dated May 25, 2005 was issued on the basis of
 fraudulent entries made in the records of Nagar Palika Parishad,
 Chandpur, District Bijnor, UP. It is, therefore, obvious that the birth
 certificate dated April 11, 2005 issued by the State of Illinois, USA is
 the true one, according to which the child of the respondent was born
 to Ms. GG and not to Smt. Akhtar Begum, the spouse of the
 respondent. From this, it can be inferred that the respondent had
 arranged for fraudulent entries to be made in the birth register of Nagar
 Palika Parishad, Chandpur, District Bijnor, UP to facilitate the issuance
 of a false birth certificate with the purpose of suppressing the truth
 about the birth of his child, the truth that she was not born to his
 lawfully wedded wife, Smt. Akhtar Begum, but to Ms. GG out of an
 illegitimate relationship with her. 34. Finally, he stated that the impugned order of the Tribunal is
 clearly illegal and contrary to the position of law and the same is liable
 to be set aside. 35. Mr. Sharma has relied upon the following judgments in
 support of his submissions: Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255 ( v) Government of T.N. and Anr. v. A. Rajapandian ,
 (1995) 1 SCC 216; (vi) S.Karthikeyan v. The Deputy Inspector General of
 Police Madurai Range, Madurai & Ors., W.A.
 Nop.3263/2019, dated September 18, 2019; and (vii) R. Pandian v. The Postmaster General, Union of India
 & Ors., dated September 15, 2016. 36. On the other hand, Mr. K. K. Rai, learned Senior Counsel
 appearing for the respondent would submit that the respondent
 admittedly rendered three decades of outstanding service around the
 world, including in extremely hard stations, with vouched impeccable
 integrity. Notwithstanding the respondent‟s impeccable professional
 record, certain inconsequential personal family issues of 2004 were
 raked up belatedly in 2017 by the petitioners, which have no bearing
 on the respondent‟s official responsibilities or on public interest. The
 respondent and his entire family extended their fullest cooperation, and
 it is in these enquiry proceedings that the Tribunal had on December
 02, 2020 set aside multiple penalties wrongly imposed by the
 Disciplinary Authority on the respondent. 37. He laid stress on the fact that notwithstanding the directions of
 the Tribunal, the petitioners have, in a completely mala fide manner
 and with intent to deny the respondent of his well deserved dues,
 dragged the instant proceedings well beyond even the originally levied
 penalty of two years. He stated that the writ petition has become
 infructuous, insofar as the respondent has already served the penalty
 imposed by the Disciplinary Authority twice over and nothing remains
 to be determined in the instant writ petition. Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255 38. That apart, he submitted that the writ petition is not
 maintainable as the Tribunal has in the impugned order dated
 December 2, 2020 exercised its discretion by setting aside the penalty
 imposed on the respondent, whilst empowering the Disciplinary
 Authority to impose any other penalty in line with the findings of the
 Tribunal. 39. He stated that the petition filed by the petitioners is totally
 misconceived and liable to be dismissed as no writ can lie seeking to
 replace the discretion exercised by the subordinate Court / Tribunal. In
 this regard, he has relied upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in
 the case of Syed Yakoob v. K.S. Radhakrishnan , AIR 1964 SC 477
 and Sawarn Singh v. State of Punjab, (1976) 2 SCC 868. 40. That apart, he submitted that this Court while exercising its
 jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, shall not
 venture to re-appreciate of the evidence and come to a different
 conclusion. In support of his submission, he has relied upon the
 judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Union of India v. P.
 Gunasekaran , (2015) 2 SCC 610. In this regard, it is his submission
 that the Tribunal has recorded the findings of fact in its decision / order
 dated December 2, 2020 which have naturally led to the Tribunal
 allowing the OA filed on behalf of the respondent and exercising its
 discretion to set aside the punishment imposed on the respondent. 41. Without prejudice, Mr. Rai has submitted that the petitioners
 are now seeking to do indirectly what they cannot do directly insofar as
 the petitioners are continually punishing the respondent in a manner
 directly contradictory to the Tribunal‟s order and in any event far Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 24 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 exceeding the penalty prescribed even by the Disciplinary Authority in
 its order dated July 31, 2019. 42. In support of his submission, he submitted that all punishments
 suggested by the Disciplinary Authority and UPSC have been fully and
 finally served by the respondent, i.e., the respondent has already been
 reduced to the lower grade of Director and has remained in the said
 position for the last two years, without any promotion or added
 benefits, whereas his juniors in the batch were promoted as Additional
 Secretaries in September, 2018 and as Secretaries in December, 2021.
 The respondent has, therefore, suffered the penalty proposed by the
 Disciplinary Authority twice over, i.e., for two consecutive two years
 terms between February, 2017 and February, 2019 and July, 2019 until
 July, 2021. 43. That apart, it was the submission of Mr. Rai that the
 petitioners‟ reply dated July 27, 2022 to the respondent‟s
 representation, filed pursuant to an order of this Court dated May 31,
 2022 makes it evident that the petitioners are keen to derail the process
 of justice and defeat all legitimate rights accruing in favor of the
 respondent. In the end, he submitted that the respondent has suffered
 grave prejudice as belated claims and allegations pertaining to the year
 2004 were for the first time raised in 2017, i.e., after more than 13
 years, severely diminishing his ability to defend himself and as such,
 all such allegations / claims are barred from being raised. He has
 sought dismissal of the writ petition. 44. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties and perused
 the record, the short question which arises for consideration is whether Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 25 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 the Tribunal was justified in setting aside the order of punishment
 passed against the respondent while directing the Disciplinary
 Authority to pass a fresh order keeping in view the findings and the
 observations in the judgment and further directing the Disciplinary
 Authority that it should pass a punishment which would not come in
 the way of the entitlement of the respondent to be promoted, subject to
 him otherwise being found fit. 45. At the outset, we may state that the Tribunal has clearly erred
 in setting aside the punishment order against the respondent. The scope
 of judicial review is very limited as has been held by the Supreme
 Court in a catena of judgments. It is only in the eventuality that the
 finding/decision of the Inquiry Officer / Disciplinary Authority is
 manifestly perverse or illegal, or if the finding/decision has been
 arrived at without any evidence, that the Tribunal or even this Court
 under Article 226 of the Constitution of India can interfere with the
 decision of the Disciplinary Authority. It is a conceded case that except
 two charges, charges III to VI have been proved by the Inquiry Officer.
 The charges which have been framed against the respondent are the
 following: Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 Article- II
 That Shri Chinthapally Rajasekhar, Joint Secretary, has
 maintained illicit relations with Ms. Ganchimeg
 Gombosuren, a Mongolian national, although he is married
 to Ms. Akhtar Begum. By the above mentioned act, the said Shri Chinthapally
 Rajasekhar, Joint Secretary, has acted in a manner
 unbecoming of a Government servant and failed to maintain
 high ethical standards, thereby violating Rules 3(l)(iii) & (vi) of the CCS (Conduct) Rules 1964. Article - III
 That Shri Chinthapally Rajasekhar, Joint Secretary, has
 submitted a birth certificate fraudulently obtained from
 Nagar Palika Parishad, Chandpur, (Bijnor), U.P., to the
 Ministry and its. offices in respect of his daughter, Ms. Jaya
 Gayathri. By the above mentioned act, the said Shri Chinthapally
 Rajasekhar, Joint Secretary, has shown lack of Integrity and
 failed to maintain high ethical standards and honesty,
 thereby violating Rules 3(1)(i) & (vi) of the CCS. (Conduct)
 Rules 1964. Article- IV
 That Shri Chinthapally Rajasekhar, Joint Secretary, has
 obtained the diplomatic passport for his daughter, Ms. Jaya
 Gayathri, by suppressing the fact that she was not an Indian
 citizen. He has also obtained for her the diplomatic passport
 as a member of his family although she was not born to his
 legally wedded wife, Ms. Akhtar Begum, but to Ms.
 Ganchimeg Gombosuren, who is not, nor has been, his
 legally wedded wife. These acts were done with the purpose
 of misusing the privileges associated with a diplomatic
 passport. By the above mentioned act, the said Shri Chinthapally
 Rajasekhar, Joint Secretary, has shown lack of integrity and
 failed to maintain high ethical standards and honesty,
 thereby violating Rules 3(1)(i), (vi) & (xviii) of the CCS
 (Conduct) Rules 1964. Article- V Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 27 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 That Shri Chinthapally Rajasekhar, Joint Secretary, has
 suppressed material facts for obtaining diplomatic passport
 for his daughter, Jaya Gayathri, by submitting a
 fraudulently obtained birth certificate from Nagar Palika
 Parishad, Chandpur, (Bijnbr), U.P.
 By the above mentioned act, the said Shri Chinthapally
 Rajasekhar, Joint Secretary, has shown lack of integrity,
 failed to, maintain high ethical standards and honesty, and
 acted contrary to law, thereby violating Rules 3(l)(i), (vi) &
 (xviii) of the CCS (Conduct) Rules 1964. Article- VI
 That Shri Chinthapally Rajasekhar, Joint Secretary, while
 applying for an Indian diplomatic passport on 25.9.2007 for
 his daughter, Jaya Gayathri, has suppressed the fact that
 she was already in possession of a passport of the United
 States of America bearing No. 028459978. Shri Rajasekhar
 did not inform the Ministry of External Affairs at any point
 of time that his daughter was in possession of passport of a
 foreign country and, therefore, acquired foreign nationality.
 By the above mentioned acts, the said Shri Chinthapally
 Rajasekhar, Joint Secretary, has shown lack of integrity,
 failed to maintain high ethical standards and honesty, acted
 contrary to the provisions under Rule 13 of the Passport
 Rules, 1980 and Rule 12 of the Indian Foreign Service
 (Conduct and Discipline) Rules, 1961, thereby violating
 Rules 3(1)(i), (vi) & (xviii) of the CCS (Conduct) Rules
 1964." 46. It is not the case of the respondent nor has it been contended
 by Mr. Rai that the disciplinary proceedings have been held contrary to
 the rules / principles of natural justice. The finding of the Inquiry
 Officer with regard to the Articles III to VI are the following: 47. It is well settled that Courts and Tribunals should not
 ordinarily interfere with the findings of the Disciplinary Authority,
 unless the same has been arrived at without any evidence or suffers
 from manifest perversity or illegality. Even if the appellate Court /
 Tribunal is of the view that in its wisdom, it might have arrived at a
 different conclusion, ordinarily the decision of the Disciplinary
 Authority ought not to be disturbed unless it is found to be ailing with
 perversity. From a perusal of the conclusion of the Inquiry Officer on
 charges III to VI, it is clear that there is sufficient basis for the
 Disciplinary Authority to come to the above conclusion. We find that
 the Tribunal while setting aside the punishment order has overlooked
 the settled position of law and has ventured to re-appreciate the
 evidence that has come on record, which cannot be sustained in law.
 Our decision is fortified by the ratio laid down by the Supreme Court
 in State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur v. Nemi Chand Nalwaya , (2011) 4
 SCC 584 wherein it was held as under: (emphasis supplied) 48. We also find that the charges against the respondent, who is a
 senior diplomat, are very serious in nature and having been imposed
 only the punishment of reduction to the next lower post for a period of
 two years, the Tribunal could not have set aside the same and directed
 the Disciplinary Authority to impose a punishment which would not
 obstruct his right to promotion. The scope of judicial review with
 regard to interference on the quantum of punishment is well settled in
 terms of the judgment in the case of B.C. Chaturvedi v. Union of
 India & Ors. , (1995) 6 SCC 749 wherein a three-judge bench of the
 Supreme Court has held that it is only when a punishment imposed
 shocks the conscience of the Court, that it would remand the matter
 back to the Disciplinary Authority for imposing a different / lighter
 punishment. Relevant part of the judgment reads as under: They are invested with the discretion to impose appropriate
 punishment keeping in view the magnitude or gravity of the
 misconduct. The High Court/Tribunal, while exercising the
 power of judicial review, cannot normally substitute its own
 conclusion on penalty and impose some other penalty. If the
 punishment imposed by the disciplinary authority or the
 appellate authority shocks the conscience of the High
 Court/Tribunal, it would appropriately mould the relief, either
 directing the disciplinary/appellate authority to reconsider the
 penalty imposed, or to shorten the litigation, it may itself, in
 exceptional and rare cases, impose appropriate punishment
 with cogent reasons in support thereof." 49. There is no finding of the Tribunal that the punishment
 imposed on the respondent had shocked its conscience. Rather, we feel
 the punishment imposed by the Disciplinary Authority was on the
 lighter side, given the position held by the respondent and the
 allegations and the evidence that have come on record. The order of
 the Tribunal to the Disciplinary Authority only to impose such
 punishment which will not come in the way of the entitlement of the
 respondent to be promoted, is also illegal as the Tribunal could not
 have prescribed the parameters for the Disciplinary Authority to
 impose a certain punishment. 50. Though it is the submission of Mr. Rai that the respondent has
 already been reduced to the lower grade of Director and he has
 remained in the said position, and as such has served the penalty
 proposed by the Disciplinary Authority, the fact remains that the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 33 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22 Neutral Citation Number: 2023/DHC/001255

 punishment has been set aside by the Tribunal with consequential
 directions thereof despite the fact that the charges have been proved
 and penalty has been imposed, the submission of Mr. Rai is that the
 respondent should be placed in a position as if there is no decision of
 the petitioners to his prejudice, leading to the grant of promotions and
 related benefits in normal course. Suffice to state, this submission of
 Mr. Rai is devoid of any merit in view of our discussion above. 51. That apart, the direction to open the sealed covers and to take
 consequential steps is contrary to the earlier part of the order for
 imposing a separate punishment. Looking from any angle, the order of
 the Tribunal is unsustainable and the same is liable to be set aside. It is
 ordered accordingly. The judgments relied upon by Mr. Rai in the case
 of Syed Yakoob (supra), Sawarn Singh (supra) and Union of India
 (supra) shall not help the case of the respondent in the peculiar facts of
 this case and in view of the conclusion already drawn by us. 52. The writ petition is disposed of. As we have heard the parties and decided the petition finally,
 this application has become infructuous. It is dismissed as such. V. KAMESWAR RAO, J. ANOOP KUMAR MENDIRATTA, J. FEBRUARY 22, 2023/aky Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ASHEESH KUMAR YADAV W.P.(C) 6953/2021 Page 34 of 34 Signing Date:22.02.2023 17:51:22