. The present criminal application is filed under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure ( Cr.P.C .), inter alia, praying to quash

F.I.R. No. 274/2022 registered against the applicants with Latur (Rural)

Police Station, Dist. Latur on 31.12.2022 for offence punishable under Section 306 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code ( IPC ) and

Regular Criminal Case No.886/2023 pending on the file of the learned

Chief Judicial Magistrate, Latur. Respondent No.2, the informant is

brother of deceased Nitin Ashokrao Balwad, who has committed suicide

in the night intervening 28.12.2022 and 29.12.2022. The applicants are

arrayed as accused Nos.1 to 5 in the matter. 2. Respondent No.2 has stated in the FIR that he was residing

along with his family, parents and family of younger brother deceased

Nitin Balwad. His younger brother deceased Nitin was employed with

Laxmi Mahila Sahakari Bank Ltd., Nanded, Ganjgolai branch, Latur. He

was initially employed in the year 2009 and was made permanent in 3 1147.2023APPLN.odt
the year 2013. He states that his brother used to work in the bank and

thereafter in the evening he used to go to Hotel Kandil Bar, run by the

family, for accounting purposes of the said establishment. He states

that, for past about two months, his brother was under constant stress.

On inquires, he has informed, his father and wife that he was

constantly being targeted by employees in the bank in relation to some

affairs of bank with which he was not concerned at all. He further

states that on 23.12.2022 all the family members had gathered in their

agricultural land at village Bhatangali to observe some rituals. His

brother Nitin joined them in the evening after coming back from the

bank. He appeared to be under immense stress and also very scared of

something. After the meals, he and his father inquired with Nitin about

reason for such mental stress and fear to which he replied that some

financial fraud has occurred in the bank for which the Inspection

Committee had visited the Bank and although he was employed only as

a peon, the applicants were alleging that he was responsible for the

said fraud and used to harass him on that count. He stated that they

were trying to falsely implicate him in the said matter. Thereafter, on

28.12.2022 while deceased Nitin had been to the bank, he and his

father was constantly in touch with him over cellphone trying to consol

him and give courage to him. On the said date i.e. on 28.12.2022, since

he did not return back till late in the evening, they tried calling him on 4 1147.2023APPLN.odt
his cellphone, however, phone was switched off, and therefore, contact

could not be established with him. Thereafter, his cousin Santosh @

Pappu Narsingh Balwad called his father on 29.12.2022 at around 6

a.m. informing that Nitin had committed suicide by hanging himself

from a tree in their agricultural land. He has alleged that his brother

committed suicide due to harassment meted out by the present

applicants by levelling false allegations of misappropriation of funds of

the bank. 3. The postmortem report confirms the fact that deceased

Nitin died due to hanging. Respondent No.2 started investigation in the

matter by recording statements of respondent No.2, parents and widow

of deceased Nitin. The family members have given their statements

under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C., which are in lines with the allegations

made in the FIR. Apart from this, statement of one Rohit Yerole, a

friend of deceased Nitin is recorded. He states that on 28.12.2022, he

was consuming liquor along with deceased Nitin till 10 p.m. and

thereafter they parted for going to their respective house. He states that

during the course of conversation, deceased Nitin informed him about

the harassment meted out to him in relation to his work in the bank.

However, his statement does not refer to the names of the applicants or

any other persons working in the bank, who had allegedly harassed 5 1147.2023APPLN.odt
Nitin. Statement of one Maroti Shinde is also recorded. This Maroti

Shinde is Upsarpanch of village Bhatangali. He has stated that he had

called Nitin on 28.12.2022 asking him to deposit Gram Panchayat tax

of Kandil Bar. Likewise statements of employees working in the bank

are also recorded. One Laxmikant Pawar, who is working as Clerk in the

branch where deceased was employed states that on 27.12.2022, a

surprise inspection was held in the branch. He has also stated about the

nature of work of deceased Nitin. According to his statement, Nitin was

employed as peon and his working was restricted to carry files,

vouchers, etc. and serving water. He states that one Tushar Akkalkote, a

friend of deceased informed him on 05.01.2023 that the present

applicants had levelled allegations of misappropriation of bank funds

against deceased Nitin and had deliberately caused mental harassment

to him, as a consequence of which he committed suicide. The branch

Manager Jayant Kulkarni also speaks about the surprise visit on

27.12.2022 and nature of duties of deceased Nitin as a peon. He states

that, on 31.12.2022, the customers of the bank informed him that the

applicants were responsible for causing mental harassment to Nitin

resulting in his suicide. The Branch Manager Mr. Jayant Kulkarni gave a

supplementary statement on 06.03.2023, wherein he has stated that a

few days before said statement (06.03.2023) Mr. Virendra Polawar

informed him that deceased Nitin had requested him to offer loan of 6 1147.2023APPLN.odt
Rs.2,00,000/- in November, 2022. He states that he has given a loan of

Rs.2,00,000/- to deceased Nitin. Apart from this, statements of Chief

Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the bank are

recorded, who have confirmed that they had carried out surprise visit

and inspection in the branch on 27.12.2022. 4. It will be pertinent to mention here that the suicide note is

recovered from the pocket of shirt of deceased Nitin while his body was

found hanging from the tree. In the suicide note, he has stated that he

is doing suicide due to harassment and mental stress by the present

applicants/accused alleging that he was responsible for the financial

irregularities in the branch. He has also stated that it was not possible

to him to make both ends meet in the meager salary paid to him by the

bank. He states that regular increments are not given, dearness

allowance is not updated regularly and bonus is also not paid to

employees. It can be gathered that he was not happy with the then

Board of Directors of the Bank and Chief Manager, Parlikar. 5. The prosecution agency has filed charge-sheet in the

matter, vide charge-sheet No.66/2023 on 25.05.2023, pursuant to

which Regular Criminal Case No.886/2023 is registered against the

applicants, which is pending before the learned Chief Judicial

Magistrate, Latur. 1147.2023APPLN.odt 6. Shri Shailendra Gangakhedkar, learned Advocate for the

applicants states that the deceased was working as a peon. The

statements of the witnesses clearly reflect on the nature of his duties.

He states that, it is inconceivable that any allegation could be made

against him with respect to financial irregularities in the bank. He

further states that although the names of the applicants appeared in the

suicide note and the statements of family members as persons who had

meted out harassment resulting in the deceased committing suicide, the

contents of the suicide note and statements of family members even if

assumed to be completely true and correct are not sufficient to make

out ingredients of Sections 306 and 107 of the IPC. He states that the

material is grossly inadequate to attribute any mens rea to the

applicants for the offence of Sections 306 and 107 of IPC. He states that

the contents of suicide note would also indicate that the deceased was

not in a very good financial condition which also can be a cause for his

committing suicide. The contents of suicide note according to him find

corroboration with the supplementary statement of the Branch

Manager, who has stated that Shri Virendra Polawar had informed him

that deceased Nitin had taken loan of Rs.2,00,000/- in the month of

November, 2022. 1147.2023APPLN.odt 7. As against this, Shri A.D. Wange, learned APP and Shri

Venjane, learned Advocate for respondent No.2 submit that the

contents of suicide note, statements of family members as also

statement of Rohit Yerole, a friend of deceased who was with him till

10 p.m. on 28.12.2022 will demonstrate that deceased was under have stated that the scope of his work was merely carrying files,

vouchers, documents, etc. from one desk to the other and serving water

etc. to employees and other persons in the bank. He was not assigned 10 1147.2023APPLN.odt
any work relating to accounting or handling of cash in the bank. In

such circumstances, it is difficult to believe that he would be driven to

commit suicide by his fellow employees who allegedly accused him of

financial irregularity in the bank. 10. We may, however, notice that a suicide note is found on the

person of the deceased during the inquest panchnama. He has indeed

named all the five applicants as persons responsible for the drastic

action of suicide committed by him. He states that the applicants

accused were attributing misappropriation of funds of the bank to him,

which according to him was a completely false allegation. The contents

of the suicide note even if accepted to be true and correct, in our

considered view are insufficient to make out case of abetment to

suicide having regard to the nature of work of the deceased in the bank

coupled with the fact that he was a person having knowledge of

accounting. He was a man of worldly affairs who was participating in

the business of running a Bar. We also noticed that he has simply stated

in the suicide note that false allegation of financial irregularity was

levelled against him. However, the allegations fall short of suggesting

any active or direct action on the part of the applicants accused which

may amount to an act of goading, urging, inciting and encouraging act

of suicide on the part of the deceased. The contents of suicide note and 11 1147.2023APPLN.odt
statements of family members, friend of deceased suggest that he was

disturbed due to these allegations. However, assuming everything to be

true, the undisputed material on record referred to above falls short of

making out the ingredients of the offence. 11. Perusal of the record indicates that there is no mention of

any specific amount allegedly misappropriated by the deceased. There

is no material to suggest that any act of misappropriation was

unearthed during the surprise inspection. It also appears that the

deceased never questioned the applicants about the alleged false

allegations, which were being levelled by them against him. Likewise,

there is nothing to suggest that the deceased tried to reach out to his

superiors, raising grievance against the applicants regarding levelling of

false allegations. In this backdrop, we find that the allegations in the

alleged suicide note are as vague as they could be. 12. We may also noticed that in the suicide note he has made

grievance against the management of the bank with respect to the

salary. According to the suicide note, the salary paid was not adequate,

increments were not given regularly as should have been given,

dearness allowances were not being increased and even bonus was not

paid. In a supplementary statement of bank manager has stated about 12 1147.2023APPLN.odt
financial condition of the deceased by referring the loan of Rs.

2,00,000/- that he had sought. It, therefore, appears that the deceased

was in a disturbed state of mind due to reasons other than alleged

harassment by levelling allegations of financial irregularities. 13. We refer to a Division Bench of this Court in the matter of Nasirhusen Mohiddin Jamadar Vs. State of Maharashtra and Another reported in 2024 SCC Online Bom 3741. Referring to several judgments

of the Hon'ble Supreme Court on the point as also earlier decisions of

this Court, it is held that mere acts of abuse or insult to the deceased by

the accused will not make out an essential ingredient of the offence of

abetment to suicide. The material on record must indicate mens rea in

the form of clear intention on the part of the accused to commit acts in

order to instigate the deceased to commit suicide. It is further held that

mere allegation of harassment is not enough to attract Section 306 of

IPC. The said judgment deals with the contents of suicide note in which

allegations were levelled against the accused persons. The said

judgment also pertains to quashing of criminal prosecution. This Court

has recently taken a similar view in the matter of Uddhav Bhaurao

Shinde Vs. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. (Criminal Application No.

1067 of 2023, decided on 09.12.2024). It is held in the said judgment

that abetment of suicide involves a mental process of the accused 13 1147.2023APPLN.odt
instigating a person or intentionally aiding a person to commit suicide.

A positive act on the part of the accused indicating instigation or aiding

the act of suicide is essential. The act on the part of the accused should

be such that the deceased must find himself in a situation where he is

left with no option, but to bring an end to his life. The said judgment in

Uddhav Bhaurao Shinde (supra) also refers to several decisions of this

Court as well as the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India on the point. 14. Viewed in the light of above legal position, we are of the

considered opinion that the material on record is grossly inadequate to

make out any case against the applicants for the offences under Section

306 and/or 107 of the IPC . It will not be in the interest of justice to

force the applicants to face prosecution in such a matter, where the

undisputed material on record does not satisfy the essential elements of

the offence. We are, therefore, of the considered opinion that FIR and

resultant criminal prosecution against the applicants is required to be

quashed. Hence, we pass the following order: