J U D G M E N T
[Arising out of S.L.P.(Crl.)No.3987 of 2005]
W I T H
Criminal Appeal No. 183 of 2006
[Arising out of S.L.P.(Crl.) No.4655 of 2005]
Dr. V. Gauri Shanker			.Appellant

	Versus

State of West Bengal & Ors.		Respondents

KAPADIA, J. Leave granted. These appeals are filed by accused nos.2 and 3 
against the impugned judgment of the High Court 
of Calcutta refusing quashing of the process issued 
by the Chief Judicial Magistrate(CJM), Alipore in 
respect of alleged offences under sections 120-
B/406/417/420 of the Indian Penal Code ( IPC ). 	
	The undisputed facts are as follows: However, on 15th April 1999 PDB purported to 
revoke all the five trusts (stood dissolved). On 18th 
April 1999, Smt. Birla executed her will by which 
she bequeathed all her properties (including the 
estate of MPB) to accused no.1, R.S. Lodha and 
after him his son, the value of which is around 
Rs.2400 crores. Smt. Birla died on 3rd July 2004. 
R.S. Lodha was a trustee of MP Birla Foundation 
(one of the three public charitable institutions). He 
was also a trustee of HMI and EIEI prior to the 
dissolution of the five trusts w.e.f. 15.4.1999. 
Appellant herein, Shiva Nath Prasad, accused no.2 
was also a trustee in the five trusts. Accused no.3, 
Dr. V.Gauri Shanker was a trustee in HMI, EIEI 
and MP Birla Foundation. He was also a trustee in 
three out of five mutual trusts referred to above. 
	Respondent no.2 herein (complainant), a 
former employee working in MP Birla Group, 
claiming to be a close associate of late MPB and his 
wife, petitioned a complaint in the court of Chief 
Judicial Magistrate, Alipore in case no.C/4693 of 
2004 alleging offences under the aforestated 
sections, viz., 120-B read with 406, 420, 467, 417 
and 204 of the IPC , inter alia, on the ground that he 
was a witness to the intention and the wishes of the 
couple during their lifetime to leave their estate to 
charity which decision was made known to 
everyone close to the couple including the other 
members of the Birla family. According to the 
complainant, the couple had accordingly executed 
mutual wills on two occasions, first in the year 
1981 and subsequently in 1982. According to the 
complainant, when the mutual wills were executed 
in 1981 and 1982, he was consulted and he had 
taken part in the discussion with MPB. According 
to the complaint, the couple had decided to dispose 
of their assets to charity after their demise. 
Respondent no.2 herein has further alleged in the 
complaint that in 1988 the couple created five 
mutual and reciprocal trusts under which the 
estate went to charity as the remainder beneficiary. 
Respondent no.2 further alleged that he was 
involved in the discussion relating to formulation of 
the terms and conditions to be mentioned in the five 
trust deeds. He was consulted in the matter of 
drafting of the said deeds. He was also a witness to 
the mutual and reciprocal agreements between MPB 
and PDB in regard to the five trusts. He was also a 
formal witness to the deeds. He was also a witness 
to the instrument of nominations of the 
beneficiaries of the five trusts. He was also a 
witness to the deed of appointment of trustees of 
the five trusts. According to respondent no.2, the 
said five trusts were created by the couple as 
mutual and reciprocal trusts by which the couple 
had mutually agreed to leave their estate, after their 
death, to charity and pursuant to that decision they 
had nominated the charitable institutions in which 
the assets held by the five trusts worth Rs.2400 
crores would vest. According to respondent no.2, 
the said five trusts were irrevocable and the three 
public charitable institutions nominated by the 
couple as beneficiaries were HMI, EIEI and MP Birla 
Foundation. Respondent no.2 was also, in turn, 
associated as honorary secretary of HMI, EIEI and 
MP Birla Foundation. Respondent no.2 herein has 
alleged in the complaint that he was stunned when 
he came to know, on the demise of PDB, that the 
first accused R.S. Lodha had claimed that the 
estate of PDB, which included the estate of MPB, 
belonged to him under the above will dated 18th 
April 1999 made by the deceased PDB. In his 
complaint, respondent no.2, has stated that when 
he came to know that R.S. Lodha had made a claim 
to the entire estate of the Birlas, he made enquiries 
which revealed to him that R.S. Lodha had 
criminally conspired with the other accused in 
criminally misappropriating assets worth Rs.2400 
crores vested by the above five mutual trusts in the 
above three charitable institutions and that the 
accused had converted the charitable endowment 
for personal gain. Respondent no.2, in his 
complaint, has further stated that the accused had 
attempted to create false evidence to show that the 
five trusts stood revoked and dissolved on 15th April 
1999 which is three days before the alleged will 
dated 18th April 1999 executed by PDB and thereby 
the assets which had vested in the charitable 
institutions had been criminally misappropriated by 
fraud and conspiracy in which the other accused 
had participated actively. Respondent no.2 herein 
has further stated in his complaint that the accused 
have conspired to create false evidence in support of 
their claim that the five trusts stood dissolved 
during the lifetime of PDB herself. In his complaint, 
respondent no.2 has further stated that R.K. 
Choudhury, one of the trustees in the three out of 
five trusts was not even aware of the alleged 
revocation/dissolution of the five trusts by Smt. 
Birla during her lifetime, as alleged by the accused. 
According to the complaint, there was no revocation 
of the five trusts, as claimed by the accused. 
Respondent no.2 is a chartered accountant. In his 
complaint, he has pointed out the reasons for the 
couple deciding to vest the shares of group holding 
companies of MPB in the above three public 
charitable institutions, namely, HMI, EIEI and MP 
Birla Foundation. Respondent no.2 has stated that 
it was tax planning advised by respondent no.2 and 
by R.K. Choudhury. The purpose of choosing the 
three institutions was to make them a vehicle to 
promote the charitable activities of MPB group. 
Respondent no.2, in his complaint, has 
categorically alleged that R.S. Lodha is a qualified 
chartered accountant, who had won the confidence 
of the couple and who solely planned his way and 
eliminated all those who had worked with the 
couple so as to make Smt. Birla hopelessly 
dependent on him. According to the complaint, 
R.S. Lodha was the exclusive advisor and 
consultant of Smt. Birla personally. He was a 
director, auditor and the trustee of different 
companies. According to the complaint, in the last 
couple of years prior to 1999, R.S. Lodha had come 
to occupy the central place in the scheme of things 
of MPB group of companies and charitable 
endowments. Respondent no.2 has further alleged 
that similarly Shiva Nath Prasad was a close 
confidante of late Smt. Birla, having completed 50 
years of service with MPB group of companies. He 
dealt with all the tax matters of Smt. Birla. He filed 
her tax returns. He entered into correspondence on 
her behalf with Income Tax Department. He was 
given a power of attorney to sign, on her behalf, the 
tax returns. He was a trustee of all the above five 
mutual trusts. He was a trustee in the three public 
charitable institutions. He was also a member of 
the managing committee of HMI and EIEI. 
Respondent no.2 has further alleged that Dr. Gauri 
Shanker was a trustee of all the above three public 
charitable institutions. He was also a trustee of 
three of the five mutual trusts, viz., M.P. Birla 
Trust, Priyamvada Birla Trust and Priyamvada Birla 
Kosh. Similarly, respondent no.2 has stated in his 
complaint that the fourth accused, Sushil Kumar 
Daga, was a long standing employee of the MP Birla 
Group. He was a member of the managing 
committee of HMI and EIEI. He was also a trustee 
of MP Birla Foundation. In his complaint, 
respondent no.2 herein, has alleged that Shiva Nath 
Prasad and S.K. Daga are the witnesses to the letter 
dated 15.4.2003 addressed by late Smt. Birla to 
R.S. Lodha which has been tendered as codicil in 
the probate proceedings pending before the High 
Court. Respondent no.2, in his complaint, has 
alleged that Shiva Nath Prasad and S.K. Daga are 
the witnesses to the said letter which was created in 
pursuance of the criminal conspiracy to 
misappropriate the property of the public charitable 
institutions. In his complaint, respondent no.2 
herein, has relied upon one more circumstance in 
support of his contention that the couple had 
always desired to leave their estate, after their 
demise, to charity. In this connection, respondent 
no.2-complainant has placed reliance on the 
biography of MPB written by Dr. Gauri Shanker in 
which a graphic description of the visit by the 
couple to Tirupathi has been mentioned. In the 
said book, Dr. Gauri Shanker has mentioned how 
he had taken the draft trust deed of MP Birla 
Foundation to His Holiness the Sankaracharya and 
got it approved by him. In the said book, it is 
allegedly stated that in the last years of his life, MP 
Birla had desired that his entire estate should go to 
charity. In the said book, it is further recited that 
MP Birla Foundation was the foremost institution 
formed on 23rd January 1986, its trustees were the 
three daughters of K.K. Birla, brother-in-law of MP 
Birla, two professionals from the industrialist group 
etc. and later Smt. Birla also joined its board as the 
chairperson and as the trustee. According to the 
biography, the couple expressed their desire to give 
their wealth and properties to God and accordingly 
Dr. Gauri Shanker was requested to translate that 
idea into reality by drawing a deed of trust. The 
final draft was prepared. It was taken to 
Kanchipuram. It was placed before His Holiness 
Sankaracharya and accordingly the deed was 
sanctified. This book was published in 1993. This 
circumstance is relied upon in the complaint to 
show that Dr. Gauri Shanker was aware of the 
decision of MPB and PDB to dedicate their entire 
wealth to charity and yet he took part in the 
conspiracy to divert the endowment worth Rs.2400 
crores from charity to the personal kitty of R.S. 
Lodha and after him, his son. According to the 
complaint, R.S. Lodha, alongwith Shiva Nath 
Prasad and Dr. Gauri Shanker were the trustees of 
the said three public charitable institutions whose 
property stands criminally misappropriated by the 
first accused pursuant to a criminal conspiracy by 
the other accused who committed criminal breach 
of trust. This was possible by virtue of the power 
and influence of R.S. Lodha and by reason of the 
long familiarity of the other accused with the 
couple. According to the complaint, MPB died on 
30th July 1990. Upto the time of his death, he had 
done nothing to show the slightest inclination to 
change his charitable intentions or to put an end to 
the mutuality expressed wills of 1982 and the trust 
deeds of 1988 and on the contrary in January and 
February 1989, the couple had agreed on the final 
nominations in favour of three public charitable 
institutions in the presence of the complainant, 
Shiva Nath Prasad and R.K. Choudhury. Respondent no.2 has categorically stated that after 
the demise of MPB on 10th September 1990, Smt. 
Birla, in fact, executed the nominations in 
accordance with the pious wish of her husband and 
that the said nominations were mutually agreed 
nominations of the five trusts duly executed by her. 
The legal effect of the said nominations were 
explained by R.K. Choudhury in the presence of the 
complainant and in the presence of Shiva Nath 
Prasad to Smt. Birla. Respondent no.2 has further 
stated that Smt. Birla was told by R.K. Choudhury 
that the said nominations were irrevocable and that 
the said Shiva Nath Prasad was fully aware, along 
with Smt. Birla, that the five trusts along with the 
nominations were mutual and reciprocal and were 
irrevocable even by Smt. Birla (survivor) except in 
terms of clause 19 which provision was common in 
all the deeds. Respondent no.2 has alleged that in 
terms of the nominations agreed between MPB and 
PDB, during the lifetime of MPB and made after the 
demise of MPB, as explained above, the assets of 
the five trusts estimated at Rs.2400 crores stood 
finally settled in the three public charitable 
institutions as remainder beneficiaries. Respondent 
no.2, in his complaint, has stated that in the 
second week of April 1999, R.S. Lodha started 
misleading Smt. Birla. She was made to sign 
documents which had the effect of misappropriating 
the assets dedicated to and vested in the three 
public charitable institutions through the medium 
of the five trusts. Pursuant to the said conspiracy, 
on 18th April 1999 which was a Sunday, R.S. 
Lodha separately called three persons to Birla Park, 
residence of Smt. Birla and persuaded each one of 
them by false representations and fraud to attest a 
document signed by the deceased Smt. Birla. This 
document is the impugned will by which all the 
properties of the couple under the five trusts stood 
diverted from	 charity. They were converted to 
become the personal property of R.S. Lodha. The 
three persons were P.L. Agarwal, Dr. Madan S. 
Vaidya and Mahabir Prasad Sharma. Accordingly, 
respondent no.2 has complained that the above 
acts constituted massive fraud on Smt. Birla and on 
the five trusts; that, the said fraud constituted a 
criminal breach of trust on the three public 
charitable institutions which are deprived of 
endowments worth Rs.2400 crores and accordingly 
in the complaint respondent no.2 has alleged that 
R.S. Lodha had cheated and defrauded Smt. Birla 
into believing that she was making a document to 
leave the property to charity as she and her 
husband had desired and declared from time to 
time since 1981-82. Respondent no.2 has lastly 
stated in his complaint that four years after the 
execution of the will dated 18th April 1999, a letter 
dated 15th April 2003 termed as codicil is brought 
into existence by R.S. Lodha in conspiracy with 
Shiva Nath Prasad and S.K. Daga to fortify the will. 
It contains a direction in respect of four residential 
properties which are now directed to R.S. Lodha 
and after him, his son. Respondent no.2 has 
alleged that this letter dated 15.4.2003 is created as 
a supporting evidence to the will of 1999. 
Respondent no.2, in his complaint, has stated that 
Shiva Nath Prasad prepared the balance sheets of 
the five trusts as on 15.4.1999 in June 2000 only to 
show that the five trusts stood dissolved through 
deeds prior to the making of the alleged will dated 
18.4.1999. Respondent no.2 has pointed out that 
R.K. Choudhury was a trustee. He had never 
resigned from the trusts. He had never ceased to be 
a trustee. He is not even aware of the dissolution of 
the trusts on 15.4.1999. In the circumstances, in 
his complaint, respondent no.2 has alleged that 
there was no revocation, oral or in writing, on 
15.4.1999 or at any time later on. Respondent no.2 
has further pointed out in his complaint that the 
accused have communicated about the dissolution 
of the trusts to the Income Tax Department only on 
27th June 2000 when a letter was addressed by 
Smt. Birla to the Joint Commissioner of Income 
Tax, Calcutta, stating that the five trusts have been 
dissolved on 15.4.1999 and that the assets have 
been transferred to her as the sole beneficiary. The 
balance sheets of the five trusts as on 15.4.1999 
prepared by second accused in June 2000 only to 
show that the trusts stood dissolved w.e.f. 
15.4.1999. Respondent no.2 has alleged that the 
accused have conspired to create records by 
entering into correspondence with Income Tax 
Department. Respondent no.2 has accordingly 
relied upon the aforestated circumstance in support 
of his allegation of conspiracy to create ante-dated 
documents to show retro-active revocation of the 
five trusts. Relying upon the aforestated 
circumstances, the complainant has alleged in his 
complaint that the accused had entered into a 
criminal conspiracy, the ultimate object of which 
was to misappropriate dishonestly the charitable 
estate and converting the said estate to their own 
use. Respondent no.2 has further alleged that the 
object of the alleged will of 1999 was to destroy the 
interest of the three public charitable institutions in 
which the estate had irrevocably vested; that, the 
purported dissolution of the trusts was a step in the 
execution of criminal conspiracy; that, the modus 
operandi of the accused was to attain this illegal 
object fraudulently by showing that the five trusts 
were dissolved during the lifetime of Smt. Birla who 
was fraudulently induced and cheated as she had 
no legal knowledge nor access to independent legal 
advice; that, Smt. Birla was a lay housewife who 
had no knowledge of legal intricacies; that, she was 
deceived into executing a fraudulent will on 
18.4.1999. That the three attesting witnesses were 
also deceived and finally the accused have even 
deliberately suppressed the facts relating to the five 
trusts from the application for probate made to the 
High Court in respect of the alleged will dated 
18.4.1999. Respondent no.2 has stated in his 
complaint that a trustee becoming a party to the 
dissolution of an irrevocable trust is dishonest and 
guilty of criminal breach of trust; that, there was 
nothing to show that Smt. Birla was advised to 
convert the properties dedicated to public charities 
to personal properties and on the contrary by filing 
and signing balance sheets of five trusts the 
accused have sought to create evidence of the 
dissolution of the trusts and thereby they have 
aided and abetted misappropriation of the 
properties belonging to public charitable 
institutions. The accused have used their dominant 
position in the five trusts and in the three public 
charitable institutions to illegally revoke the five 
trusts and thereby dishonestly misappropriated the 
properties of the three public charitable institutions 
which constituted offence punishable under section 
120-B read with section 406 of IPC. In execution of 
the conspiracy, the accused, in fact, 
misappropriated the properties of the public 
charitable institutions by illegally showing that the 
five trusts stood revoked and by transferring the 
properties held by five trusts or the three public 
charitable institutions to Smt. Birla as her personal 
properties as is evidenced from the balance sheets 
filed on behalf of the five trusts by the second 
accused. Hence, respondent no.2 has alleged that 
the accused were also guilty of substantive offence 
of criminal breach of trust under section 406 , IPC. 
Respondent no.2 has also alleged in his complaint 
that R.S. Lodha was liable for offence punishable 
under section 420 , IPC inasmuch as he was the 
instrumentality of procuring the will dated 
18.4.1999 by inducing Smt. Birla by false 
representation to sign the said will, divesting the 
properties from charity and converting it to the 
assets of the first accused. Lastly, respondent no.2 
has alleged that accused nos.2, 3 and 4, all of 
whom were trustees and/or members of managing 
committee in one or more of the three public 
charitable institutions had connived both by 
positive acts of commission and omission to aid and 
abet accused no.1 R.S. Lodha in the offence of 
criminal breach of trust for which they are liable to 
be punished under section 109 read with section 
406 , IPC. Accordingly, respondent no.2 vide his 
aforestated complaint prayed for issuance of 
process under section 120-B read with sections 
406 , 420 , 467 , 417 and 204 , IPC and also 
substantive offences under sections 120-B , 406 , 420 , 417 and 204 of IPC. To complete the chronology of events, suffice it 
to state that vide order dated 05.10.2004, CJM 
Alipore held that a prima facie case for offence 
under sections 120-B / 406 / 417 / 420 IPC was made 
out against the accused. Accordingly, cognizance 
was taken. Accordingly, accused were summoned 
on 29.11.2004. Aggrieved by the said order dated 05.10.2004 
of CJM Alipore, accused no.2-Shiva Nath Prasad 
moved the High Court under section 482 of Code of 
Criminal Procedure ( Cr.PC ) for quashing the 
proceedings vide complaint case no.C4693/04 
pending before CJM Alipore under sections 
406 / 417 / 420 / 120-B , IPC. By the impugned 
judgment, the High Court has refused to intervene 
and set aside/quash the criminal proceedings. 
Hence, the accused have come in appeal to this 
court. Shri Harish N. Salve, learned senior counsel 
appearing on behalf of Shiva Nath Prasad submitted 
that in 1983 G.D. Birla died. At that time, there 
was tension within the Birla family over division of 
assets. M.P. Birla and Smt. Birla were unhappy 
and hurt with the way they were treated during 
partition. Despite the couple being issueless, the 
couple did not take assistance from any member of 
the Birla family in the running of their business 
and in the running of M.P. Birla group of 
companies. R.S. Lodha was closely associated with 
the couple. Over the years, Smt. Birla came to 
repose a lot of faith, confidence and affection on 
R.S. Lodha. She openly declared that R.S. Lodha 
would be her successor. In this connection, learned 
counsel placed reliance on the minutes of the board 
meeting of Birla Corporation Ltd. held in September 
2001 in which meeting nominees of financial 
institutions and banks were present. In their 
presence, Smt. Birla declared that R.S. Lodha was 
to be her successor. Learned counsel further 
submitted that R.S. Lodha was also made 
chairperson of four holding companies in M.P. Birla 
group in 1999 within one week from 18.4.1999. He 
was also made the co-chairman of the main 
manufacturing companies controlled by the group 
headed by Smt. Birla and all the key senior 
executives of the group were aware of her wishes. 
Learned counsel submitted that on the death of 
Smt. Birla, the other Birlas have come together to 
grab control of the M.P. Birla group for free under 
the facade of charity. It was pointed out that in 
August 2004 Birlas filed an application in the High 
Court for probate of two alleged wills allegedly made 
by the couple on 13th July 1982 claiming the same 
to be mutual wills. It is the case of the appellant 
herein that the said 1982 wills were revoked during 
the lifetime of M.P. Birla and Smt. Birla. Further, it 
is urged that no explanation has been given for not 
applying for probate of the said wills of M.P. Birla 
who died on 30th July 1990 for 14 long years. 
Learned counsel submitted that the Birlas have 
themselves signed documents showing Smt. Birla 
as the sole intestate heir of M.P. Birla which 
documents are totally contrary to the present case 
of mutual wills mentioned in the complaint. 
Learned counsel next contended that the criminal 
case filed by respondent no.2 herein, R.P. Pansari, 
is one such attempt on the part of the Birlas; that, 
the case has been instituted only to harass R.S. 
Lodha and other individuals who were close to Smt. 
Birla; that, the complainant has been set up by the 
Birlas to harass R.S. Lodha; that, the complainant 
is a disgruntled ex-employee of M.P. Birla group; 
that, the complainant had nothing to do with three 
charitable institutions after April 2000; that, he had 
nothing to do with M.P. Birla group after December 
2001; that, immediately after the filing of the 
complaint, R.P. Pansari was rewarded with a job at 
a basic salary of Rs.1,75,000/- per month by the 
grandson of B.K. Birla and accordingly it was 
submitted that the complaint constituted an abuse 
of the process of law. Learned counsel submitted that the foundation 
of the complaint is based on averments which are 
false in view of the documents annexed to the 
complaint. In this connection, learned counsel 
submitted that the five trust deeds clearly show on 
bare reading that the trusts were set up with a 
private object to provide benefit to individual 
beneficiaries with absolute power of alienation of 
the entire trust property and income without any 
compulsion for charity. It was urged that on a bare 
reading of the trust deeds it is clear that they were 
expressly made revocable and, therefore, it is not 
open to the complainant to claim that the said five 
private trusts were irrevocable when on the face of 
the documents, they are revocable. Learned 
counsel further submitted that the very fact that 
nominations were made on 10th September 1990 by 
Smt. Birla shows that nothing prevented her from 
making further nominations superseding the earlier 
nominations dated 10.9.1990. Learned counsel 
submitted that even the nominations dated 
10.9.1990 were not entirely charitable. In fact, in 
value terms it was more in favour of private 
individual members of Birla family. Learned 
counsel submitted that the deceased Smt. Birla was 
in sound health and she actively looked after her 
business and had undertaken busy travel 
schedules as recently as February 2003.
	Learned counsel submitted that even if all the 
allegations in the complaint supported by 
documents annexed thereto were believed to be 
true, the same did not disclose the ingredients of 
the offence of criminal breach of trust as there was 
no entrustment of property of one in the hands of 
another. Similarly, the ingredients of the offence of 
cheating are also not disclosed in the complaint. 
Learned counsel urged that the issues raised in the 
complaint are complicated issues of civil law 
relating to mutual wills and mutual trusts which 
cannot be decided by a criminal court and which 
issues should be relegated to regular civil 
proceedings before a court of competent 
jurisdiction. Learned counsel urged that the five 
trusts were expressly made revocable. In this 
connection, reliance was placed on clause 19 of the 
Trust Deed. Learned counsel urged that the 
complainant has relied upon, in the complaint, oral 
agreements for which oral evidence cannot be 
permitted to be adduced as such oral evidence was 
contrary to the terms of the written documents and 
was, therefore, barred under sections 91 and 92 of 
the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. Similarly, the 
allegations of the trust property having vested in 
three public charitable institutions, upon 
nomination, being made in their favour by Smt. 
Birla, have no substance because the properties 
mentioned in the nominations were only to be 
transferred to the nominees on the death of the 
settlor/sole beneficiary, namely, Smt. Birla and, 
therefore, there was no basis for alleging that the 
assets had vested in the three charitable 
institutions upon nominations being made by Smt. 
Birla. In this connection, it was further pointed out 
that the nominations made by Smt. Birla were in 
supersession of her nominations made earlier. In 
the circumstances, there was no merit in the 
allegations made in the complaint that the assets 
covered by the trusts stood vested in the three 
public charitable institutions on issuance of 
nominations/directions in 1990. According to the 
learned counsel, the complaint made by respondent 
no.2 herein smacks of malafides particularly when 
he has been appointed at a salary of Rs.1.75 lacs 
per month in one of the rival Birla companies soon 
after his making the above complaint. As regards 
the scope of section 482 , Cr.PC, learned counsel 
submitted that since the complaint was frivolous, 
vexatious, oppressive and malicious, the High Court 
should have exercised its powers under section 482 , 
Cr.PC because such powers are required to be 
exercised ex debito justitiae or for the ends of 
justice. Learned counsel relied upon various cases 
in which criminal proceedings have been quashed 
at the initial stage to prevent abuse of process of 
court and for the ends of justice. In this 
connection, reliance was placed on several decisions 
of this court, more important being R.P. Kapur v. 
State of Punjab [AIR 1960 SC 866]; State of 
Haryana & Ors. v. Bhajan Lal & Ors. [1992 
Suppl. 1 SCC 335]; Madhu Limaye v. The State 
of Maharashtra [1977 (4) SCC 551] and 
Madhavrao Jiwajirao Scindia & Ors. v. Sambhajirao Chandrojirao Angre & Ors. [1988 
(1) SCC 692]. Learned counsel submitted that the 
power of the court to grant discharge under section 
245(2) , Cr.PC in a warrant case instituted otherwise 
than on a complaint did not impinge on the 
inherent power of the High Court under section 482 of Cr.PC to quash proceedings in appropriate cases. In this connection, reliance was placed on the 
judgment of this Court in the case of Pepsi Foods 
Ltd. & Anr. v. Special Judicial Magistrate & 
Ors. [1998 (5) SCC 749]. Learned counsel 
submitted that exercise of inherent power to quash 
the proceedings is called for in cases where the 
complaint did not disclose any offence or that the 
complaint was frivolous, vexatious or oppressive. 
Learned counsel submitted that in the present case 
the complainant has tried to distort the facts in 
order to give an impression of an offence. That the 
said attempt was grossly frivolous, vexatious and 
oppressive and, therefore, the High Court should 
have quashed the process issued by the CJM, 
Alipore. On the question of breach of trust, learned 
counsel submitted that there was no entrustment of 
property which is the main ingredient of the offence 
under section 405; there was no valid creation of 
trust under the five trust deeds; there was no 
creation of a beneficial interest in the three public 
charitable institutions; that Smt. Birla was the only 
beneficiary under the trust deeds till she died; that, 
there was no vested interest created in any 
beneficiary other than Smt. Birla under any of the 
five trust deeds and lastly the revocation of the four 
trusts did not amount to the extinguishment of 
vested or beneficial interest of any other person 
under the trust deed so as to constitute an act of 
conversion. Learned counsel submitted that on 
reading the five trust deeds in the light of the 
aforestated proposition of law it would become clear 
that, in the present case, there was no trust 
because the settlor, the trustee and the beneficiary 
in all the five trusts was one and the same person, 
viz., M.P. Birla in M.P. Birla Trust and Priyamvada 
Devi Birla in the other four trusts. As sole 
beneficiary, both M.P. Birla in M.P. Birla Trust and 
Priyamvada Devi Birla in other four trusts, had 
absolute power of disposition of the trust property 
and also over the trust income including the power 
of bequest by nomination. The beneficial interest of 
M.P. Birla in the trust property was the same as the 
legal ownership which vested in him as a trustee 
and if the beneficiary and the trustee were the same 
person and if the beneficiary has the same right as 
the trustee, then there can be no beneficial interest 
under section 3 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 and, 
therefore, it was urged that, in the present case, 
there was no valid creation of a trust, as alleged. 
Learned counsel submitted that in any event the 
said five trusts were private in nature and a mere 
contingency in charity would not make such trusts 
public and thereby bring them out of the provisions 
of Indian Trusts Act . In this connection, it was 
urged that the sole beneficiaries of the trusts were 
M.P. Birla and Smt. Birla and that reference to 
charity in clause 8 was a mere contingent interest 
and, therefore, such provision cannot transform the 
nature and character of the private trust into a 
public or charitable trust. Learned counsel urged 
that the primary purpose of the settlor was to 
benefit the members of his family and, therefore, 
the trusts in the present case were private trusts 
and not public trusts, as alleged by the 
complainant. Learned counsel urged that, in the 
present case, there was no complete dedication to 
charity under these five private trusts even 
according to the intention of the settlor or in terms 
of the trust deed. Further, learned counsel 
submitted that since there was an express clause of 
revocation, one cannot say, as sought to be 
contended, that a public trust came into existence 
for charitable purposes. Learned counsel urged 
that there was no vesting on any point of time in 
three public charitable institutions as on 10.9.1990 
or in any charity under clause 8 of the trust deed, 
as submitted by the complainant; that, the proviso 
to clause 6 (b) in Smt. Birla's four trust deeds 
excluded the right of her husband to sell the trust 
property and consequently Smt. Birla had a right to 
sell/alienate the trust property without any 
restrictions; that, this provision further indicates 
that the trust property was or could be completely 
extinguished by Smt. Birla by operation of all or any 
of her powers as the trustee/settlor. Learned 
counsel urged that by clause 5 of the trust deed 
Smt. Birla was vested with the power of alienation 
of the corpus of the trust and the income therefrom. 
In this connection, reliance was placed on clauses 
5, 10, 11(iii), 11(iv) and 11(xxi) of the trust deeds. 
In the circumstances, learned counsel submitted 
that the powers of Smt. Birla under the trust deeds 
were similar to the powers of a testator under a will; 
that, just as a testator could deal with his property 
covered in the will during his lifetime and just as 
under the will the legatee/beneficiary had no vested 
interest in the bequest under the will which is 
merely contingent upon the acts of the testator 
during his lifetime so also Smt. Birla under the five 
trust deeds was a testator of a will and she had full 
authority to deal with the property covered by the 
will/trust during her lifetime, the beneficiary having 
no vested interest in the bequest. Learned counsel 
further urged that even as far as property of M.P. 
Birla Trust was concerned, the deceased had full 
beneficial interest in the corpus during her lifetime; 
that, there was nothing in the deed of trust that 
made her directions given under clause 6(b) 
irrevocable; that, Smt. Birla could have nominated 
a member of the family even after the 
nominations/directions of September 1990 without 
committing breach of trust; that, even if Smt. Birla 
had named a charitable trust during her lifetime, 
she could have changed the direction and given it to 
any other trust whether charitable or non-
charitable. In any event, the directions were to 
operate only upon her death. In this connection, 
reliance was placed on the letter dated 12th 
September 1990 addressed by Smt. Birla to East 
India Investment Company Pvt. Ltd. requesting that 
the shares in the trust property may be transmitted 
to her name as she was the sole survivor of her late 
husband. Learned counsel submitted that even the 
letter which Smt. Birla wrote to Income Tax 
Department intimating dissolution of the private 
trusts on 15.4.1999 with the enclosed balance 
sheets showed that the assets and the income of 
the trusts was all along included in the personal 
Income Tax returns of Smt. Birla. In conclusion, 
learned counsel urged that M.P. Birla and Smt. 
Birla had granted absolute right in the trust 
property unto themselves, and the second bequest, 
if any, under clause 8 was in favour of charity 
which had failed and, therefore, there was no 
entrustment of property as contemplated by section 
405 , IPC. The sole beneficiary of all the five trusts 
was Smt. Birla who had revoked the trusts in the 
year 1999 and, therefore, the appellant cannot be 
accused of committing breach of trust, as alleged in 
the complaint. Any disposal by Smt. Birla in her 
own favour or to those claiming under her can 
never fall within the meaning of section 405 , IPC. 
The act of the deceased in revoking the trusts 
and/or treating the property as her own and 
disposing of the same by will cannot constitute 
breach of trust under section 405 , IPC.
	Shri R.F. Nariman, learned senior counsel 
appearing on behalf of Dr. Gauri Shanker-accused 
no.3 submitted that Dr. Gauri Shanker is 83 years 
old. He is the senior advocate of this court. He 
joined Indian Revenue Service in 1948 and held, 
during his tenure, senior positions. He was 
appointed an advisor to L.K. Jha Commission. He 
was personally known to late M.P. Birla and 
through M.P. Birla, he came to know Smt. Birla. He 
was close to the couple. He used to advise them on 
personal and corporate matters. He came to know 
R.S. Lodha through M.P. Birla. He had seen the 
couple placing reliance on R.S. Lodha. He had seen 
the couple giving responsibility to R.S. Lodha from 
time to time. He was consulted by the couple in 
matters of religion, philosophy, charity, business 
and taxation. According to Dr. Gauri Shanker, 
Smt. Birla was a wise lady, well read and proficient 
in several languages. According Dr. Gauri Shanker, 
on the demise of G.D. Birla, M.P. Birla had 
conveyed his dissatisfaction over the division of 
management of Birla companies. In the last few 
years of his life, M.P. Birla had gradually handed 
over the charge of M.P. Birla group of companies to 
Smt. Birla. After the demise of M.P. Birla, Dr. Gauri 
Shanker remained close to Smt. Birla. He advised 
her on personal and corporate matters. Towards 
the end of 1990 Smt. Birla had told Dr. Gauri 
Shanker that she had decided on R.S. Lodha as her 
successor and she was desirous of making a will for 
this purpose. According to Dr. Gauri Shanker, Smt. 
Birla had told him that she would revoke five 
private trust deeds before making her will. It was 
further submitted that even according to Dr. Gauri 
Shanker although he was a trustee of three trusts 
out of five private trusts created in 1988 none of the 
properties settled in the trusts had been 
transferred/recorded in the names of the trustees 
and that all the five private trusts were revocable. 
Further, Smt. Birla had asked Dr. Gauri Shanker to 
prepare a will by which she would bequeath the 
right, title and interest of all that she owned to R.S. 
Lodha whom she used to treat like her son and in 
consonance of the detailed instructions of Smt. 
Birla, Dr. Gauri Shanker had drawn up a will dated 
18.4.1999 which was duly registered and which is 
annexed to the criminal complaint. Learned 
counsel submitted that in fact Dr. Gauri Shanker 
was told by Smt. Birla that she had dissolved the 
five private trusts before executing the will. After 
four years Smt. Birla had expressed her desire to 
give further directions regarding her properties and 
consequently a letter, based on her instructions, 
was drafted by Dr. Gauri Shanker which was signed 
by Smt. Birla on 15.4.2003 in the presence of Shiva 
Nath and S.K. Daga. Learned counsel submitted that from the plain 
reading of the complaint and the documents 
appended thereto, it was clear that there is no 
allegation at all regarding the offences of cheating 
under section 417 / 420 , IPC; no allegation is found 
in the pre-summoning evidence of respondent no.2 
or M.P. Sharma and, therefore, no process could 
have been issued under section 417 / 420 , IPC and, 
therefore, it was submitted that the impugned order 
of CJM dated 5.10.2004 suffered from the vice of 
non-application of mind. Learned counsel 
submitted that summoning of the accused in a 
criminal case was a serious matter. In the present 
case, according to learned counsel, the impugned 
order of the magistrate summoning the accused 
does not indicate application of mind to the facts of 
the case. That, in the present case, there is no 
allegation against Dr. Gauri Shanker regarding 
creation of letter/codicil dated 15.4.2003; that, the 
allegations are directed only against R.S. Lodha, 
Shiva Nath Prasad and S.K. Daga. No allegations 
whatsoever have been made against Dr. Gauri 
Shanker even in relation to the revocation of five 
private trusts and, therefore, the complaint does 
not make out a case of any overt act being 
committed by Dr. Gauri Shanker in relation to the 
revocation of the five private trusts and hence, there 
is no reason for issuing summons to Dr. Gauri 
Shanker. Learned counsel urged that the case 
against Dr. Gauri Shanker on the point of 
conspiracy was at the highest that he was a trustee 
of three public charitable institutions and that he 
was also a trustee of the three out of five private 
trusts; that, he remained a silent spectator to the 
alleged acts of other accused in criminally 
misappropriating the properties of three public 
charitable institutions pursuant to a criminal 
conspiracy to commit criminal breach of trust with 
the common intention to destroy charitable trusts. 
That, in any event, the allegations of conspiracy 
against Dr. Gauri Shanker were vague, general and 
completely lacking in factual particulars and, 
therefore, according to the learned counsel there 
was no reason for the magistrate to issue process 
against Dr. Gauri Shanker. Learned counsel lastly submitted that the 
complaint needs to be quashed for the simple 
reason that it suffers from malafides; that, the 
complaint is harrasive, attended with malafides and 
is a tool of oppression adopted by the Birlas to 
terrorise Shiva Nath Prasad, S.K. Daga and Dr. 
Gauri Shanker into succumbing to the pressure 
and thereby making difficult for R.S. Lodha to have 
the last will of Smt. Birla probated. Learned 
counsel urged that the entire complaint is brought 
about by Birlas who are working behind the scene. 
That the choice of four accused is made on selective 
basis; that the four accused were close to Smt. 
Birla; that, although the position of Dr. Gauri 
Shanker was identical with the other trustees, viz., 
R.K. Choudhury and Kashinath Tapuriah, the latter 
have been left out of the complaint which 
unequivocally demonstrates that the criminal 
complaint constitutes a gross abuse of the process 
of law attended with malafide and, therefore, the 
High Court ought to have quashed the criminal 
complaint under section 482 of the Cr. PC.
	To understand the basis of the complaint we 
need to understand the concept of mutual wills, 
mutual and reciprocal trusts and secret trusts. A 
will on its own terms is inherently revocable during 
the lifetime of the testator. However, "mutual wills" Before us, number of judgments have been 
cited in support of the case that respondent no.2 
(complainant) is the disgruntled employee of the MP 
Birla Group of Companies and that he has been put 
up by the Birlas, hence, the complaint is based on 
malafides and should, therefore, be dismissed. We 
need not go into the said judgments as the basic 
principle settled in the citations is that the question 
of malafides has to be decided on the facts of each 
case. At the outset, we reiterate that credentiality 
of the complainant at this stage is not relevant. As 
stated above, in this case, what is alleged by the 
complaint, inter alia, is that he was a privy to the 
discussions and consultations and thinking which 
went into making of the mutual wills and the 
mutual trusts; that, he was a formal witness to 
some of these deeds and that he was aware that the 
couple had mutually agreed to the disposal of the 
property to charity after their demise. In the facts 
and circumstances of this case, at this stage, we are 
not inclined to accept the argument that the 
complaint should be dismissed at the initial stage 
on the ground of alleged malafides of the 
complainant. We reiterate that our observations in the 
judgment should not be read as our opinion on the 
merits of the matter. Similarly, the applicability of 
the relevant section to the facts of the present case 
does not arise at this stage. For the above reasons, we find no merit in 
these appeals and the same are accordingly 
dismissed.