These Appeals arise from a judgment dated 19 July 2010 of a Learned

 Single Judge on a Motion for interim relief in a suit. When an application for ad

 
 interim relief came up for hearing before the Learned Single Judge, an objection

 to the maintainability of the suit was raised on behalf of the First Defendant on

 
 the ground that the claim was barred by limitation. The Learned Single Judge

 was requested to raise a preliminary issue under Section 9A of the Code of Civil
 
 Procedure, 1908. The Learned Judge accepted the contention that an issue
 
 under Section 9A would have to be raised. The Court held that no case for the

 grant of ad interim relief, within the meaning of Section 9A(2) was made out on

 the ground of delay. However, the Learned Single Judge proceeded to dispose
 

 of the Motion for interim relief on the ground that since affidavits have been filed
 

 and parties were heard at length, it would not be appropriate or proper to have a

 hearing confined only to the disposal of the application for ad interim relief. Two

 appeals have been filed in these proceedings. The first appeal is by Mr. Nusli

 Neville Wadia, the Plaintiff; while the second appeal is by Ferani Hotels Private

 Limited, the First Defendant. The suit has been instituted by the Plaintiff in his

 capacity as the administrator of the estate of Late E.F. Dinshaw. For

 convenience of reference and since there are two appeals, it would be

 appropriate to refer to the parties as the administrator and Ferani. Reference to

 the other Defendants would be made appropriately, as and when necessary. 2. The suit has been instituted, inter alia, to seek a declaration that an ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:11 ::: PNP 3/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 agreement entered into between the administrator and Ferani on 2 January 1995

 stands vitiated by fraud and has been duly determined with effect from 12 May

 
 2008. Consequential reliefs have also been claimed to the effect that the powers

 
 of attorney executed by the Plaintiff stand validly revoked and that certain

 agreements entered into between Ferani and the other Defendants, including

 among them agreements which date back to 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005,

 
 have been validly revoked. An injunction has been sought, restraining Ferani

 from carrying out any further construction on the lands which form the subject

 
 matter of the suit and to demolish the constructions which have been put up. There is a claim for damages in the amount of Rs.1,370.06 Crores. The lands

 which form the subject matter of the dispute aggregate to about 350 acres and
 
 are situated principally in Malad. 3. On 2 January 1995 an agreement was entered into between the

 administrator (representing the estate of E.F. Dinshaw) and Ferani, under which
 

 Ferani undertook the development of the land and the sale of constructed areas

 thereon subject to certain terms and conditions. The agreement envisaged that

 Ferani would develop the land by constructing buildings thereon. The

 administrator was to grant, in favour of Ferani, a lease in respect of the land. Clause 8 of the agreement stipulated thus : 4. Under the agreement the administrator was to be paid 12% of "all gross

 realizations from the disposal/ transfer (by any and all formats) as aforesaid". The minimum share of the administrator was to be Rs.75 Crores, payable within
 
 a period of ten years from the date of the agreement. The development of the

 immovable property was to be in the control of the members of the Raheja family

 including a corporate body under its control. The agreement envisaged that the
 

 administrator would continue to be in juridical possession of the land. The
 

 administrator was to transfer title and handover formal and juridical possession

 of the land to the purchasers of the building constructed by Ferani. Clause 15 of

 the agreement stipulated that Ferani would be dealing with "outsiders/third

 parties on principal to principal basis" and the relationship between the parties

 would not be in the nature of a partnership and/or an association of persons. Clause 16(a) of the agreement provided that neither party shall be entitled to

 terminate or resile from the agreement or their obligations thereunder, the

 intention of the parties being that the agreement would be operative till the time

 that the entire development project was complete and a sale / transfer as

 contemplated had taken place. Ferani was required to furnish to the

 administrator a statement of accounts at monthly intervals in order to establish ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:11 ::: PNP 5/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 that his 12% share was paid into a designated bank account simultaneously with

 the receipt by Ferani of its 88% share. An annual audit was to be carried out by

 
 C.C. Chokhsi & Co. Chartered Accountants, with a view to ensure that the

 
 administrator had received his 12% share in the designated bank account. Under clause 17(a) of the agreement the administrator was required to execute

 powers of attorney in favour of the Third and Fourth Defendants, who are

 
 representatives of Ferani, inter alia, authorizing them to get plans sanctioned,

 enter into agreements with flat purchasers and to arrange for the receipt and

 
 payment of the share of the administrator in the gross consideration. 5. Pursuant to the agreement the administrator executed powers of attorney
 
 on 2 January 1995. Parties entered into a supplemental agreement on 12 April

 1995 providing a time frame for the realization of the minimum guaranteed share
 

 of Rs.75 Crores that was assured to the administrator. Between 1995 and 1999,

 no development work was carried out, as a result of which the minimum
 

 guaranteed amount was remitted to the administrator as provided in the

 agreement between the parties. 6. The record would indicate that disputes arose between the parties as

 early as in April 2000. On 4/11 April 2000, Ferani informed the administrator that

 from 21 March 2000 it had deposited in the designated bank account an

 aggregate sum of Rs.75.79 lakhs representing the 12% share of the

 administrator under clause 12(a) of the agreement, out of the gross receipts /

 realization in respect of 56 flats in a proposed building to be constructed by

 Ferani on the suit land. This building was alleged to have been sold by Ferani to ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:11 ::: PNP 6/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 the Fifth Defendant, which according to the Plaintiff is a group company of the

 Raheja family. On 16 May 2000, a reply was addressed by the administrator to

 
 Ferani specifically drawing attention to the fact that clause 8(a) of the agreement

 
 contemplated a sale or transfer of flats to third parties. The administrator

 contended that the sales of the flats in question were not genuine sales and that

 consequently the obligation to deposit 12% of the sale values would not be taken

 
 as having been fulfilled. In the circumstances, Ferani was called upon to disclose

 "the ultimate genuine sale" made by the sister and associated companies of

 
 Ferani to third parties to whom the flats were allegedly sold at a notional value. The amount paid towards the share of the administrator, it was stated, would be

 treated as an on account payment to be finally adjusted against "genuine sales". 7. On 9 June 2000, Ferani addressed a communication to the administrator
 

 accepting that the Fifth Defendant was a "sister concern", but claimed that it had

 a separate entity and was a third party within the meaning of clause 8(a) of the
 

 agreement. According to Ferani the sale price which is reflected in the

 transaction (Rs.1,510/- per sq. ft.) was the rate at which the premises under sale

 were capable of realizing in the then market conditions. Nonetheless an offer

 was made by Ferani to the administrator that it would be willing to sell to the

 administrator or his nominees, within thirty days, 56 similar flats at the rate of

 Rs.1,510/- per sq. ft. on the same terms and conditions of sale as applicable to

 the Fifth Defendant. During the course of the development of the lands, nearly

 19 meetings took place between the parties. The record would indicate that the

 administrator had a serious grievance that Ferani had entered into transactions

 for the sale of constructed premises to third parties who were alleged to be ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:11 ::: PNP 7/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 companies forming part of the Raheja group. Whether there is prima facie merit

 in that allegation would be considered for the purposes of the present appeals. But, at this stage, it would be necessary to note that from time to time C.C.

 
 Chokshi and Company, who were nominated as auditors under the agreement,

 certified during the course of audit that Defendants 1 to 4 had stated that none of

 the flats or units had been sold to related parties or to sister or associated

 
 concerns of Ferani. 8. On 12 May 2008, the agreement was determined by notice on the ground
 
 that by purporting to sell the units in the completed buildings and in partially

 constructed buildings to their own nominees, Defendants 1 to 4 had acted
 
 fraudulently in breach of their fiduciary duty and of the express terms and

 conditions of the agreement. The administrator alleged that Defendants 1 to 4
 

 had repudiated their obligation under the agreement. The suit was instituted on

 13 May 2008. 9. On 30 May 2008 a Motion for interlocutory relief was taken out by the

 administrator. Between 22 July 2008 and February 2010 several letters were

 addressed by the administrator to various authorities, including the Sub- Registrar of Assurances and the Municipal Corporation, either to stop the

 registration of documents or the grant of building permissions. On 20 October

 2009 and 23 December 2009, the Municipal Corporation stated that since there

 was no injunction or order of restraint of any Court, the request made by the

 administrator could not be acceded to. The Motion was moved before the

 Learned Single Judge for ad interim relief for the first time on 3 March 2010, ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:11 ::: PNP 8/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 nearly 21 months after the suit was instituted. On behalf of Ferani an

 adjournment was sought to file an affidavit in reply. In the affidavit filed by Ferani

 
 to oppose the application for ad interim relief, an objection was raised to the

 
 maintainability of the suit on the ground that the claim was barred by limitation. The Learned Trial Judge was requested to frame a preliminary issue on the

 question of limitation under Section 9A of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. The Motion was listed before the Learned Single Judge on 16 June 2010 for ad

 interim relief. 10.
 
 By a judgment dated 19 July 2010 the Learned Single Judge held that :- Accordingly the Learned Single Judge issued a direction to the effect that Ferani

 shall not put any party, either a genuine third party or any related party including

 the other Defendants to the suit, in possession of any constructed premises

 except with the approval of the Plaintiff, pending the suit. The Learned Single

 Judge, however, excluded from the operation of the order Kotak Mahindra Bank

 Limited in the building constructed for them by Ferani under certain agreements

 dated 15 December 2006. The Motion was disposed of. The Learned Single ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 9/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 Judge had stayed the operation of the order for a period of two weeks. The

 order passed by the Learned Single Judge was stayed by a Division Bench of

 
 this Court on 26 July 2010. 11. Before we deal with the issues which arose before the Learned Trial

 Judge, prima facie, on the merits of the dispute it will be necessary for the Court

 
 to consider the ambit of the provisions of Section 9A of the Code of Civil

 Procedure, 1908. As we have noted, at the hearing of the application for ad

 
 interim relief, an objection was raised by the First Defendant to the
 
 maintainability of the suit on the ground that the claim was barred by limitation. While the Learned Single Judge has directed that a preliminary issue on the
 
 ground of limitation would have to be framed under Section 9A , the impugned

 order proceeds to dispose of completely the Motion for interim relief. Whether
 

 such a course of action is permissible in law would fall for determination in the

 first instance. 12. Section 9A was introduced in the Code by a Maharashtra Amendment1. Section 9A provides as follows : Any such application shall be heard and disposed of by the Court as
 expeditiously as possible and shall not in any case be adjourned to the

 
 hearing of the suit. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), at the
 hearing of any such application, the Court may grant such interim relief as

 
 it may consider necessary, pending determination by it of the preliminary
 issue as to the jurisdiction." 13. At the outset it will be necessary to note that insofar as this Court is

 
 concerned, it is common ground that the following two positions in law are
 settled :- ( c ) Mukund Ltd. v. Mumbai International Airport4 ; ( d) Jagshi Shah v. Shaan Builders5 . (ii) Whether Section 9A is inconsistent with the provisions of Order 14

 Rule 2 and will therefore stand repealed by Section 16 of the Code of

 Civil Procedure Amendment Act 2002 is concluded by the following

 decisions : 14. The Court has been informed during the course of the submissions by

 learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the administrator that the

 
 judgment of this Court in Foreshore Co-operative Housing Society was

 carried in appeal to the Supreme Court both on the point as to whether limitation

 
 can be raised as a jurisdictional issue under Section 9A and on whether Section
 
 9A is inconsistent with Order 14 Rule 2. A Special Leave Petition has been

 admitted by the Supreme Court by an order dated 6 September 2011. The
 
 administrator has made a statement before this Court that on this issue, he

 wishes to canvas the correctness of the view on both these facets before the
 

 Supreme Court. Fairly, however, there is no dispute about the position in law

 that on both these aspects, the law stands concluded insofar as this Court is
 

 concerned. 15. The genesis of Section 9A originates in a decision of this Court in Institute Indo-Portuguese v. Dr. T. Borges 8 in which it was held by this Court

 that the Bombay City Civil Court was not required for the purposes of granting

 interim relief to enquire into the question of jurisdiction. The legislature

 intervened by amending the Code in 1977 on the ground that the practice of

 granting injunctions without going into the question of jurisdiction, even though

 raised had led to grave abuse. The object of the amendment was to provide

 6 2008(5) Bom CR 284 (Aurangabad Bench). 7 2009(1) Bom CR 757 (DB). 8 (1958) 60 Bom L.R. 660. PNP 12/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 that when a question of jurisdiction was raised at the hearing of an application for

 granting or setting aside an order granting interim relief, the Court shall

 
 determine that question first. In Tayabbhai M. Bagasarwalla v. Hind Rubber

 
 Industries Private Limited9 , the Supreme Court held that when an objection to

 jurisdiction of the Court is raised at the hearing of an application for the grant of

 or vacating interim relief "the Court should determine that issue in the first

 
 instance as a preliminary issue before granting or setting aside the relief already

 granted". However, sub section (2) of Section 9A does not preclude the Court

 
 from granting such interim relief as it may consider necessary pending the
 
 decision on the question of jurisdiction. The judgment of the Supreme Court

 indicates, that merely because an objection to jurisdiction is raised, "the Court
 
 does not become helpless forthwith - nor does it become incompetent to grant

 the interim relief". At the same time the objection to jurisdiction has to be
 

 determined at the earliest possible moment. Following the decision of the

 Supreme Court in Bagasarwalla, several judgments of this Court have
 

 elucidated upon the ambit and scope of Section 9A . These include judgments of

 the Division Benches in :- ( iii) Foreshore Co-operative Housing Society Ltd. v. Praveen Desai 12; ( iv) Royal Palms (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. Bharat Shantilal Shah13 ; ( v) Mukund Limited v. Mumbai International Airport14 ; 9 (1997) 3 SCC 443. 10 1999(1) Bom. C.R. 107
 11 2003 Vol.105(2) Bom.L.R. 547. 12 2009(2) Mh. L.J.28. 13 2009(2) Bom.C.R. 622. 14 2011(2) Mh.L.J. 936. 16. The principles which emerge from these decisions can be formulated

 thus: (iv) The first part of Section 9A refers to the stage at which the objection is

 
 taken, the stage being at the hearing of an application for granting or

 setting aside an order granting interim relief. The second part of the

 
 provision elucidates the nature of the objection, the objection being to
 
 the jurisdiction of the Court to entertain such a suit; (v) Following the judgment of the Constitution Bench of the Supreme
 
 Court in Pandurang D. Chougule v. Maruti H. Jadhav 16, which held

 that it is well settled that a plea of limitation is a plea which concerns
 

 the jurisdiction of the Court which tries the proceedings and that a

 finding on the plea in favour of a party raising it would oust the
 

 jurisdiction of the Court, the Division Bench in Foreshore Co- operative Housing Society Limited (supra) held that the question of

 limitation would constitute a question of jurisdiction within the meaning

 of Section 9A . The decision in Foreshore Co-operative Housing

 Society has been followed by a Division Bench in Royal Palms,

 Mukund and Associated Bombay Cinemas (supra). 17. But, the submission which has been urged on behalf of the administrator

 by learned Senior Counsel is twofold. Firstly, it has been submitted that an

 objection, as to jurisdiction, of the nature that is contemplated by sub section (1)

 16 AIR 1966 SC 153. PNP 15/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 of Section 9A is an objection which must be capable of disposing of the entirety

 of the suit if it is upheld. In the present case, it has been submitted that several

 
 transactions between the parties which are sought to be rescinded have

 
 admittedly taken place within a period of three years of the date of the institution

 of the suit and those in any event would be within limitation. Consequently, it

 was submitted that even if the objection that has been raised by Ferani were to

 
 be upheld upon adjudication, that would result in only a part of the claim being

 held to be barred by limitation. The administrator does not concede at this stage

 
 that any part of the claim is barred by limitation. But, even if the submissions of
 
 Ferani were to be upheld, that would not result in the rejection of the suit in its

 entirety. Section 9A , it was urged, would not apply to this situation. Secondly, it
 
 is urged that sub section (1) of Section 9A does not oust the authority of the

 Court to consider atleast at the threshold whether the objection as to jurisdiction
 

 has some substance or justification. In other words, it was urged that an

 objection as to jurisdiction does not mandate that the Court must in every
 

 instance frame a preliminary issue and if such a construction were to be placed,

 it would be susceptible to grave abuse. 18. We would take up the second part of the submission in the first instance. The object and purpose of the legislature in introducing Section 9A was to

 obviate an abuse of process on the part of the Plaintiff. The statement of

 objects and reasons underlying the amendment makes it abundantly clear that

 the legislature had in mind a situation where a practice had grown in the City

 Civil Court of applications for interim relief being entertained while a hearing on

 an objection as to jurisdiction was postponed until that determination took place. PNP 16/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 This practice finds support in a judgment of this Court in Institute Indo- Portuguese which had indicated that it was not necessary for the Trial Judge to

 
 postpone the hearing of an application for interlocutory relief until the question of

 
 jurisdiction was resolved. Evidently, the object of the State legislature in

 introducing the provisions of Section 9A was to ensure that when an objection on

 the ground of jurisdiction is raised, that must be addressed first before an

 
 application for interlocutory relief is finally disposed of. Nonetheless the

 legislature balanced the claim of a Plaintiff to have access to some interlocutory

 
 protection. Sub section (2) of Section 9A empowers the Trial Judge to grant
 
 interim protection until the question of jurisdiction is finally resolved. Though the

 object of the legislature was thus to protect against an abuse of process on the
 
 part of the Plaintiffs, experience of Trial Judges in this Court would be suggestive

 of the fact that in certain cases the provision can be capable of being abused by
 

 a Defendant. A Defendant may conceivably raise an objection as to jurisdiction

 merely with a view to delay the final disposal of a Motion for interim relief,
 

 cognizant of the fact that an ad interim application of the kind which is

 contemplated under sub section (2) of Section 9A may not in a given situation

 result in the grant of wide ranging interim reliefs of the kind that may be sought

 by a Plaintiff. We are not inclined to enter a finding that such is the case in the

 present case. For, as we would indicate prima facie, the objection as to

 jurisdiction here cannot by any means be regarded as being frivolous or lacking

 in bonafides. But, the possibility of an abuse by the Defendants, which the

 practical unfolding of the provision of Section 9A indicates, in the experience of

 the Trial Judges of this Court, would emphasize the necessity of allowing a

 modicum of discretion on the part of the Trial Judge while dealing with an ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 17/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 application for the raising of a preliminary issue under Section 9A . The judgment

 of the Supreme Court in Bagasarwalla 's case provides some element of

 
 guidance when the Supreme Court notes that the Trial Judge is not helpless

 
 merely because a preliminary issue is sought to be raised under Section 9A . We

 are of the view that in order to ensure that Section 9A is not susceptible to grave

 abuse at the behest of an unscrupulous Defendant, it would be within the

 
 jurisdiction and authority of the Trial Judge to consider as to whether the

 objection as to jurisdiction arises bonafide or whether it is wholly frivolous. Undoubtedly, this would contemplate only a minimal enquiry by the Court, since
 
 if at that stage a comprehensive adjudication were to be contemplated, that

 would virtually defeat the provisions of Section 9A . The provisions of Section 9A therefore would not be inconsistent with the Trial Judge exercising a minimal

 enquiry at the very threshold to satisfy the conscience of the Court that the
 

 objection of jurisdiction has been raised bonafide and is not a frivolous or

 irrelevant exercise meant only to delay or defeat the process of the Court. 19. On the first leg of the submission it has been urged before the Court by

 learned Senior Counsel that Section 9A uses the expression "to entertain such a

 suit". Based on this, it was submitted that an objection to the jurisdiction of the

 Court must be to the entertainment of a suit in its entirety. In other words, the

 submission is that where an objection as to jurisdiction could not result in the

 complete disposal of the suit, in the event that it is upheld, the issue as to

 jurisdiction need not be framed as a preliminary issue. 20. At the outset, when we consider the submission it would be necessary to ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 18/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 note that a restriction of the kind that is suggested on behalf of the administrator

 is not contained in the plain terms of Section 9A . The first part of Section 9A(1) makes a reference to the stage at which the objection is raised while the second

 
 part adverts to the nature of the objection. The nature of the objection is that it

 has to be "an objection to the jurisdiction of the Court to entertain such a suit". An objection to jurisdiction may in a certain conceivable situation be to the

 
 jurisdiction of the Court to entertain the suit in its entirety as for instance, where

 the Court lacks the jurisdiction to entertain the subject matter of the suit on the

 
 ground that properly construed the suit relates to the relationship of a lessor and
 
 lessee falling within the exclusive domain of the Small Causes Court in the city of

 Mumbai. Alternately, the objection may be to the lack of territorial jurisdiction or
 
 on the ground of a lack of pecuniary jurisdiction. Equally an objection as to

 jurisdiction can well be in respect of a part of the cause of action which is set up
 

 in the suit. For instance, even on the issue of territorial jurisdiction, a part of the

 cause of action may fall within the jurisdiction of the Court, while another part
 

 may fall outside. An illustration of that nature is to be found in the judgment of

 the Supreme Court in Sandeep Polymers (P) Ltd. v Bajaj Auto Ltd. 17. The

 significant aspect is that if an objection to the jurisdiction of the Court to entertain

 a part of the cause of action which is set up in the suit is raised and sustained,

 that part of the cause of action would fall outside the scope of adjudication in the

 suit before the Court before which the objection is raised. The object of the

 legislature was to preclude the Plaintiff from pursuing an application for

 interlocutory relief though the claim on the basis of which the application is

 founded falls outside jurisdiction. This rationale would be relevant both to a

 situation where the entirety of the claim lies outside the jurisdiction of the Court

 17 (2007) 7 SCC 148. PNP 19/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 as well as in a situation where a part of the cause of action is outside the

 jurisdiction, though the rest falls within. An objection as to the jurisdiction of the

 
 Court "to entertain such a suit" must bear its natural and ordinary connotation

 
 which would mean an objection to the jurisdiction of a Court to entertain even a

 part of the cause of action raised in a suit. For this Court to hold that Section 9A would not apply in a situation where the objection of jurisdiction would not result

 
 in the disposal of the entire suit, even if it were to be upheld would be to

 introduce a condition which has not been imposed by the legislature. In the

 
 course of interpreting Section 9A , it would not be open to this Court either to
 
 rewrite the provision or to introduce a condition which the legislature has not

 found it fit to impose. If as a result of the experience which has been gained
 
 over the years on the practical working of the statutory provision, an amendment

 to the provision is necessitated, the remedy would not lie before this Court, but
 

 before the legislature which must consider a possible amendment. 21. In the view which we have taken, we would have to determine as to

 whether consistent with the minimal enquiry that we have contemplated, the

 Learned Single Judge was justified in directing that the issue of limitation should

 be raised as a preliminary issue consistent with the provisions of Section 9A . The objection as to jurisdiction has been raised in the affidavit filed on behalf of

 the First Defendant on 12 March 2010. Paragraph 4 of the affidavit contains a

 specific submission that the suit is barred by limitation and that this issue should

 be raised and decided as a preliminary issue under Section 9A . In paragraphs

 10.1 to 10.8 and in paragraph 11 the First Defendant has set up the basis on

 which the plea of limitation has been raised. According to the First Defendant on ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 20/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 11 April 2000 the administrator was informed that 56 flats in Building No.4 had

 been sold and the Plaintiffs' share of 12% had been banked in the designated

 
 bank account. On 16 May 2000, the administrator raised an objection on the

 
 ground that the Fifth Defendant to whom the sale was made was not a third party

 and was an associated company. In response, the First Defendant by its reply

 dated 9 June 2000 stated that though the Fifth Defendant was a sister concern, it

 
 was a separate legal entity and therefore a third party within the meaning of

 clause 8(a). In addition, the First Defendant offered to sell an equal number of

 
 flats to the Plaintiff at the same rate and on the same terms and conditions. Subsequently, on 5 April 2002, the administrator was informed of the sale by the

 First Defendant to the Sixth Defendant, another sister concern of three units in
 
 Building M on C.T.S. 1406A/ 3 / 8 . On 23 April 2002, the Plaintiff raised an

 objection to the sale on the ground that this was not a genuine sale to a third
 

 party. By a communication dated 2 May 2002 the First Defendant informed the

 Plaintiff that the sale was a genuine sale in respect of which Form 37-I had been
 

 filed with the Income Tax Department. The contention of the First Defendant is

 that between 2000-2002 the Plaintiff was aware of the position of the First

 Defendant that although the Fifth and Sixth Defendants were associated

 companies, being independent legal entities, they were a third party within the

 meaning of the agreement. According to the First Defendant the sales made to

 Defendants 8 to 49 were third party sales and the claim was barred by limitation. As regards the negotiation letters which were sought to be revoked as part of the

 reliefs claimed in the suit, it has been submitted that those letters date between

 30 March 2001 and 4 April 2005, besides which there were other agreements

 between April 2005 and March 2006. In our view, having due regard to the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 21/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 nature and basis of the objection, it cannot be asserted that the claim as to

 limitation is frivolous or that it was lacking in bonafides. 22. The Learned Single Judge was in these circumstances justified and as a

 matter of fact Section 9A(1) obligated the Court to raise an issue of jurisdiction to

 be tried as a preliminary issue. Having decided to raise the issue of limitation as

 
 a preliminary issue, the Learned Single Judge was of the view that no case for

 the grant of ad interim relief was made out. The basis of this determination is

 
 contained in paragraphs 71 and 72 of the impugned order. The Learned Single
 
 Judge has noted that the administrator had atleast suspected some fraud, if any,

 committed by Ferani by appointing its nominees or related companies, since
 
 May 2000. A grievance was again made in April 2002. According to the Learned

 Single Judge, the Plaint itself shows that the entire fraud was brought to light in
 

 May 2005. Though the administrator sued in May 2008, no application for the

 grant of ad interim relief was made until February 2010. For these reasons, the
 

 Learned Judge held that it would be impossible to grant ad interim relief to the

 Plaintiff after the lapse of the years that have passed. But the Learned Single

 Judge proceeded to dispose of the Motion for interim relief on the ground that

 after detailed arguments were addressed and the material on the record had

 been considered, it would be an abuse of the process of the Court to allow

 parties to argue only an application for ad interim relief. It was on this basis that

 the Learned Judge proceeded to dispose of the Motion in its entirety. We find

 considerable merit in the submission that the impugned order of the Learned

 Single Judge insofar as it disposes of the application for interim relief finally is

 unsustainable. Once the Motion for interim relief stands disposed of, the issue ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 22/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 which the Learned Single Judge has framed would cease to be a preliminary

 issue because then it would partake of the character of an issue which would fall

 
 for determination under Order 14 Rules 1 and 2. What the legislature has

 
 contemplated is that an issue of jurisdiction has to be disposed of first before the

 interlocutory application can be disposed of finally. Disposing of the Motion

 finally without the issue of jurisdiction being resolved, would clearly be in the

 
 teeth of the provisions of Section 9A(1) . Section 9A(1) clearly mandates that the

 issue of jurisdiction cannot be relegated to the stage of the hearing of the suit. Moreover, that issue has to be decided before the application for interlocutory
 
 relief can be finally disposed of. In these circumstances, we are of the view that

 the order of the Learned Single Judge disposing of the Motion finally is
 
 unsustainable and would to that extent has to be set aside. Consistent with the

 provisions of Section 9A(1) which require the raising of the issue of jurisdiction
 

 as a preliminary issue, the Learned Single Judge would have been within

 jurisdiction in entertaining an application for ad interim relief within the meaning
 

 of sub section (2) of Section 9A . The hearing of the Motion for interim relief

 would have to be taken up after the determination of the preliminary issue under Section 9A . 23. That leads the Court to the issue as to whether the grant of any ad

 interim relief is warranted. As we have noted earlier, the final relief that the

 Learned Single Judge has granted is not an ad interim order within the meaning

 of Section 9A(2) , but a final order on the Notice of Motion. The Learned Single

 Judge was of the view that no case for the grant of ad interim relief was made

 out. That is the matter which now falls for the determination of the Court. PNP 23/36 APP817-19.7.sxw 24. The substratum of the case of the Plaintiff is on the allegation of fraud. The allegation of fraud can for the purposes of elucidation be broadly distributed

 
 into four heads as pleaded in the plaint:- Despite the limited capital and recent incorporation, the companies
 

 were projected as having entered into transactions with Ferani

 involving several crores of rupees. All the transactions were allegedly

 in the form of negotiation letters which provided for similar terms of

 payment including rates. The initial amounts which the companies

 paid were alleged to be financed by unsecured loans principally from

 the Seventh Defendant which is stated to be a partnership firm of the

 Raheja family. According to the Plaintiff, the fact that Defendants 8 to

 49 were actually related or that they were nominees of the First

 Defendant or the Rahejas was a fact which was not disclosed to the

 auditors, C.C. Chokshi & Co. appointed under clause 16(g) of the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 24/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 development agreement. The auditors, as the administrator points

 out, were informed by Ferani that none of the sales to Defendants 8 to

 
 49 were sales to related persons or nominees of Ferani.; (ii) The second allegation of fraud involves two negotiation letters with

 front / nominee companies viz. Defendants 14 and 15. According to

 the Plaintiff in pursuance of these negotiation letters, Ferani purported

 
 to sell identified areas to its front companies at a stated price. These

 negotiation letters contain an apparently innocuous clause stating that

 
 in the event that there was an increase or decrease in the areas, the
 
 consideration would be proportionately adjusted. The administrator

 was paid his share of consideration stated in the initial letters of
 
 negotiation of 2002. Subsequently, when the copies of the negotiation

 letters of May 2005 were forwarded to the administrator, he realized
 

 that although the area was much higher, the rate was the same. The

 allegation is that by adopting this modus operandi, the administrator
 

 was deprived of his share of 12% of the genuine consideration; (iii) The third allegation of fraud is that the First Defendant entered into

 leave and licence agreements with Defendant No.31 dated 21

 November 2003 in respect of areas yet to be transacted under which it

 would take a substantial deposit and licence fee from the licensee. The leave and licence agreement was disclosed to the administrator

 only under a letter dated 5 April 2005 and 12% of the deposit amount

 or of the licence fee was not shared with him at all. Thereafter,

 according to the administrator, the areas with the licensee were

 transacted with Defendant No.31 which is an associated concern of ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 25/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 the Raheja group and the deposit was transferred to it. The

 administrator objected to this transaction on 2 June 2005; (iv) The fourth allegation is that a transaction was entered into on 15

 
 December 2007 by Ferani with the Kotak group, involving two

 separate agreements, one of which was disclosed and the other was

 concealed. According to the Plaintiff, the actual purchase

 
 consideration was split into two agreements, one for the building and

 the second for amenities such as aluminum cladding. Both the

 
 agreements were entered into on the same day and the consideration
 
 was split up approximately in the ratio of 85 : 15. The administrator

 was paid his share only under the first agreement. On obtaining
 
 knowledge of the transaction, the administrator wrote to Kotak on 24

 February 2008. It was only after the filing of the suit, since the no
 

 objection of the administrator was required for the handing over of

 possession of Building 21 to Kotak, that Kotak paid up and permission
 

 was granted. Moreover, it has been submitted that in certain

 instances, the premises which form the subject matter of certain

 transactions were never in fact constructed. 25. On behalf of Ferani, it was sought to be urged by learned Senior Counsel

 that :- and (ii) So long as the party with whom a transaction was entered into was not a

 party to the contract, the sale would be to a third party within the meaning ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 26/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 of clause 8(a) of the agreement. Learned Senior Counsel submitted that Ferani has made full disclosures of all

 
 transactions and in the absence of any misrepresentation, the allegation of fraud

 is misconceived. It has been urged that the essence of the development

 agreement, especially under clause 8(a), was that the administrator would

 
 receive 12% of the gross consideration on all sales. It has been submitted that

 the purchaser to whom the sale has been made is irrelevant, so long as it is

 
 made to a "third party" who is not a signatory to the development agreement. Learned Counsel urged that the test is not the identity of the third party, but the

 genuineness of consideration. It has been urged that the plaintiff has not
 
 produced any material to support the allegation regarding inadequacy of

 consideration. It is urged that the Single Judge rightly held that the issues in
 

 dispute would be a matter of accounts. It has been urged that monthly

 intimation letters were addressed to the plaintiff, in relation to all transactions,
 

 between 2000 and 2006 and no objections were forthcoming, on the

 consideration for the transactions. The fact that the auditors, who were

 nominees of the administrator did not dispute the accounts rendered with

 relation to the transactions dispels any allegation of fraud. Learned Senior

 Counsel submitted that, barring one case, no member of the Raheja family is a

 director / shareholder / investor in any of the companies. It has been further

 submitted that out of the 44 transactions that have been challenged, 34 are

 barred by limitation. It has also been urged that of the 10 transactions that are

 not allegedly barred by limitation, several are with companies which involve

 independent third party investors, and that no member of the Raheja family is a ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 27/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 director or shareholder in any of the buyer companies in these transactions. Further, in 8 or 9 transactions, the third party concerned, involved a relative of

 
 the spouse of a daughter of the Raheja family in the capacity as director /

 
 shareholder / investor, none of which could be said to be a party related to

 Ferani. 26. Clause 8(a) of the agreement provides that the development project

 contemplated by the agreement would involve the sale or transfer by any other

 
 format by Ferani to third parties either on an outright sale basis or ownership
 
 basis or otherwise, of the buildings which were to be constructed by Ferani. When the parties referred to third parties in clause 8(a), there was a business
 
 understanding which was reflected in the words of the document. The duty of

 the Court while interpreting a commercial document must be to give a business
 

 meaning to the words used. When parties referred to transfers to third parties,

 evidently they had an intent that the transactions would be arms length
 

 transactions. Evidently, the consideration that was payable to the administrator

 representing 12% of the gross consideration would depend upon the

 transactions which Ferani entered into with these third parties. The basis of the

 expression 'third parties' in clause 8(a) must therefore be understood as

 conveying an intent of the parties to the effect that these transactions would be

 transactions with genuine purchasers. For it was on the foundation of a genuine

 transaction that the consideration representing 12% of the share of the

 administrator would have to be worked out. Even if learned Senior Counsel

 appearing on behalf of Ferani is held to be justified in submitting that the

 agreement does not expressly prohibit a transaction with a party other than a ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 28/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 signatory to the contract, nonetheless there can be no gainsaying fact that the

 assurance that was meted out to the administrator was that he would be entitled

 
 to a certain share of the total consideration. The share of the administrator could

 
 be worked out on the basis of a bonafide sale in favour of a third party. Therefore, prima facie we are not inclined to accept the construction which has

 been sought to be placed on behalf of Ferani on clause 8(a) of the agreement. Undoubtedly, clause 15 of the agreement only contains a statement to the effect

 that while the administrator and Ferani would be dealing with outsiders / third

 
 parties, they would not be construed as having entered into a partnership or an

 association of persons. 27. In construing the manner in which parties understood clause 8(a), regard

 must be had to the contemporaneous conduct. On 5 April 2002 Ferani informed
 

 the administrator of the receipt of an amount of Rs.1.85 Crores for the sale on

 partnership basis of units in Building M. The sale was in favour of the Sixth
 

 Defendant, Palm Grove Beach Hotels Pvt. Ltd, which was stated to be a group

 company. On 23 April 2002, in a letter addressed on behalf of the administrator

 to Ferani, it was contended that Palm Grove Beach Hotels Pvt. Limited was not a

 third party within the meaning of clause 8(a) of the agreement and that the sale

 was not a genuine sale. In response Ferani by its letter dated 2 May 2002 stated

 thus : 28. Ferani therefore clearly sought to justify the sale to the Sixth Defendant as

 
 a genuine sale. Evidently therefore it was within the contemplation of parties

 that a sale in favour of a third party within the meaning of clause 8(a) must be a

 
 genuine sale. Moreover, the auditors, C.C.Chokshi & Co. certified on nearly 11

 occasions, that they were informed by Defendants 1 to 4 that none of the sales

 or transactions involved related or associated companies. If the submission

 
 which has now been sought to be urged reflected the understanding of Ferani at
 
 the relevant time, they would have only informed the auditors that the issue as to

 whether the sales were to a related or associated company was irrelevant
 
 because in their construction, a third party would mean an entity which was not a

 party to the contract. Evidently that was not the understanding of either of the
 

 parties at the relevant point in time. 29. The basis and foundation of the claim which has been made by the

 administrator is that the transactions which were put into place by Ferani were

 motivated by the object of diluting the consideration of 12% that was liable to be

 paid under the terms of the agreement. During the course of the hearing, we

 enquired with Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the administrator as to

 whether there is any material on the record that would indicate that the sales to

 Defendants 8 to 49 were not reflective of the true market value that prevailed at

 the relevant point in time. At this stage, it may be noted that there is no material

 on the record on the basis of which the Court can conclude prima facie that the

 sales in favour of Defendants 8 to 49 did not reflect the true or correct market ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 30/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 value. Whether the sales at the material time did or did not accord with the

 prevailing market value for the properties which were put up for sale is

 
 essentially a matter of evidence and cannot be decided a priori on the basis of

 
 affidavits. During the course of the submissions, learned Senior Counsel

 appearing on behalf of Ferani has placed on the record charts, reflective of the

 position as it stood during the period when the provisions of Section 37-I of the

 
 Income tax Act 1961 were in operation and subsequent thereto when those

 provisions ceased to apply. On the basis of those charts, it has been sought to

 
 be urged that the transactions which have been challenged by the administrator
 
 are in several cases at rates which are much higher than those transactions

 which have been accepted by the administrator. In response, the submission
 
 which has been urged on behalf of the administrator is that the transactions

 which have been accepted by him were transactions with genuine third parties
 

 which he had no locus to question under the terms of the agreement. In

 rejoinder and towards conclusion of the submissions, a computation has been
 

 tendered on behalf of the administrator to the Court on the basis of the rates as

 contained in the ready reckoner with a view to urge that the rates at which Ferani

 transacted were lower than the rates which were prevailing in the ready

 reckoner. We find merit in the submission which has been urged on behalf of

 Ferani that it would be inappropriate for this Court, sitting in appeal to allow such

 material to be adduced for the first time, absent such a submission being urged

 before the Learned Single Judge and particularly in the absence of either

 pleadings or underlying material to document the submission. This is evidently a

 matter which must be deferred to a closer consideration, when the hearing of the

 application for interim relief in the Notice of Motion can be taken up. PNP 31/36 APP817-19.7.sxw 30. In pursuance of the agreement that was entered into between the parties

 
 on 2 January 1995, development has proceeded. During the course of the

 
 hearing, it has emerged before the Court that there have been nearly 1600

 transactions comprising both of residential and commercial properties of which

 144 are commercial transactions. The administrator has challenged 44 of the

 
 commercial transactions. The Court has been informed that there is no dispute

 in regard to the rates at which the transactions relating to the residential

 
 properties have taken place. On behalf of Ferani, it has been submitted that out
 
 of the 44 transactions pertaining to commercial properties that have been

 challenged by the administrator, 41 involved registered sale deeds, where
 
 possession has already been handed over to third parties. 34 out of the 44

 transactions, it has been urged, have taken place beyond a period of three years
 

 prior to the institution of the suit and would be barred by limitation. 31. One glaring factor which must weigh with the Court in the present case is

 the element of delay on the part of the administrator in moving the Court. The

 delay on the part of the administrator must be considered from the perspective of

 two periods : (i) the period between the date of the disputes that arose under the

 agreement and the date of the suit; and (ii) the period between the date of the

 institution of the suit and the first application for the grant of ad interim relief. The material on the record would indicate that right from April 2000, the

 administrator was aware of the transactions between Ferani and entities which

 the administrator alleged were related or associated companies The record

 would show that as far back as on 16 May 2000 the administrator had ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 32/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 questioned the transaction between Ferani and the Fifth Defendant on the

 ground that it was not a genuine sale. Ferani had on 9 June 2000 stated that the

 
 sale consideration accorded with the prevailing market prices at the time and

 
 offered to sell to the administrator an equivalent number of 56 flats on the same

 terms and conditions. Between 10 and 23 April 2001, the administrator had

 requested Ferani to send copies of agreements entered into pursuant to the

 
 transactions with Defendants 8 to 13, which agreements (negotiation letters)

 Ferani then submitted. On 23 April 2002 the administrator objected to a

 
 transaction entered into with the Sixth Defendant on the ground that being a
 
 group company the transaction was not with a genuine third party. On 2 May

 2002 Ferani informed the administrator that for all practical purposes, the sale in
 
 favour of the Sixth Defendant had to be treated as a sale to a third party and was

 a genuine sale. On 2 June 2005, the administrator objected to the transaction
 

 that had taken place with Defendant No.31. On 2 April 2005, an MoU was

 entered into between Ferani and the Fifth and Sixth Defendants for the purchase
 

 of certain non-residential units of which copies were forwarded on 5 April 2005. On 5 April 2005 Ferani addressed communications to the administrator

 intimating the receipt of sums under letters of negotiation. Admittedly, several

 meetings took place between the parties on and after May 2005 when the

 administrator objected to the transactions. On 2 November 2005 the

 administrator in a communication suggested that after a notice of seven days, he

 shall be free to revoke the power of attorney provided to Ferani on account of its

 abuse. A meeting took place on 16 November 2005 between the

 representatives of the parties where it was agreed that a chart furnishing

 identities of the purchasers of the units / buildings and a break up of the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 33/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 transactions by category would be furnished. According to the administrator, the

 chart was furnished on 17 November 2005. 32. We have adverted to some of these events because they would suggest

 prima facie, though in fairly unmistakable terms, that parties were in dispute over

 the transactions which Ferani entered into right since April 2000. The record

 
 before the Court would, prima facie, indicate that from time to time the

 administrator raised objections to those transactions and was confronted with the

 
 defence by Ferani that the transactions accorded with the prevailing market price
 
 and were genuine transactions. In this background, the fact that the

 administrator chose to file the suit only in May 2008 assumes significance. Equities have intervened in the meantime. It has been stated before the Court

 on behalf of Ferani that in the interregnum steps have been taken for the
 

 removal of encroachment and for carrying out the work of development. Third

 party rights have intervened. Even after the suit was instituted on 13 May 2008,
 

 an application for ad interim relief was moved before the Learned Single Judge

 only on 3 March 2010. The only explanation which the administrator had for the

 delay in moving an application for ad interim relief is that the Sub Registrar and

 the Municipal Corporation had been moved not to register documents or, as the

 case may be, to grant building permission and it was only in October / December

 2009 that the Municipal Corporation informed him that absent any injunction, it

 would proceed with permissions. Admittedly, in the meantime, the work under

 the project was continuing. These are circumstances which must weigh with the

 Court in declining to grant a stay on construction at the ad interim stage. The

 order which the Learned Single Judge passed precludes the sale of any unit ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 34/36 APP817-19.7.sxw

 whatsoever without the consent of the parties. Parties are in dispute and an

 order of the Court restricting the sale of constructed premises only with the

 
 consent of the parties would virtually bring the entirety of the project to a stand

 
 still. The entitlement of the administrator under the agreement dated 2 January

 1995 is to the receipt of a share in the gross total consideration equivalent to

 12%. The grant of injunctive relief restraining Ferani from selling its units would

 
 therefore neither be in accordance with the equities of the situation nor the

 mutual rights and obligations of the parties. 33.
 
 During the course of the hearing the Court has been informed by learned

 Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of Ferani that the following payments have
 
 been made or, as the case may be, deposited in pursuance of the agreement

 dated 2 January 1995 : 34. Accordingly an amount of Rs.223 Crores has been deposited or, as the

 case may be, paid directly. We are of the view that the ends of justice would be

 met if, pending the hearing and final disposal of the preliminary issue under ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 ::: PNP 35/36 APP817-19.7.sxw Section 9A , Ferani is directed to maintain accounts of all transactions falling

 within the purview of the agreement dated 2 January 1995 and in addition, is

 
 directed to continue to deposit an amount representing 12% of the share of the

 
 administrator out of the gross total consideration without prejudice to the rights

 and contentions of the parties. 35. Accordingly, the Appeals shall stand disposed of in terms of the following

 directions : (iii) The Plaintiff shall file an affidavit in lieu of the examination-in-chief within a

 period of four weeks from today. Shri Justice D.G. Karnik, Former Judge of this

 Court is appointed as Commissioner for recording evidence. The fees payable

 to the Commissioner shall initially be shared in equal proportion by both the

 parties; (iv) Pending the hearing and final disposal of the preliminary issue, Ferani

 Hotels Private Limited is directed to maintain accounts and to continue

 depositing an amount equivalent to 12% of the gross sale consideration in a

 designated bank account. The amount upon deposit shall be invested in a fixed

 deposit to abide by further orders of the Learned Trial Judge; evidence before the Commissioner, preferably within a period of three months

 
 from today; (vi) The Learned Single Judge is requested to endeavour an expeditious

 disposal of the preliminary issue preferably within a period of three months after

 the receipt of the report of the Commissioner appointed for recording evidence; (vii) Liberty is reserved to the Plaintiff to apply before the Learned Single

 Judge for appropriate interim reliefs after the final decision on the preliminary

 
 issue; (viii)
 
 Appeal 806 of 2010 filed by Mr. Nusli Wadia shall stand disposed of in the

 aforesaid terms; (ix) We clarify that all the observations contained in this judgment are

 confined to the issues which have arisen before this Court at the present stage
 

 and the view expressed by the Court on the merits of the rival contentions shall

 not come in the way of the disposal of the Notice of Motion or the suit in terms of
 

 the directions issued. (Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, J.)

 (R.D.Dhanuka, J.) ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:50:12 :::