% 17.04.2025 1. The present application filed under Section 483 of Bharatiya Nagarik
 Suraksha Sanhita, 20231 seeks regular bail in proceedings arising from FIR
 No. 11/2024 registered under Sections 406 / 120B of the Indian Penal Code,
 18602 at P.S. Economic Offences Wing. 2. Briefly, the case of the prosecution is as follows: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 19/04/2025 at 01:07:37
 employment opportunities abroad. The accused persons are stated to have
 collected money from the complainants/victims and subsequently absconded
 from their office premises located at Sector-10, Rohini, Delhi.
 2.2. During the investigation additional complaints were received against
 M/s Ladder Groups, involving the same set of accused persons and similar
 allegations of financial fraud. To date, a total of 18 complaints have been
 received, collectively representing 90 investors/victims, with the total
 amount of fraud estimated at ₹2.50 crores (approx.). All these complaints
 have been consolidated with the present FIR for further investigation.
 2.3. During the investigation, notices under Section 91 and 160 CrPC were
 issued to all complainants whose addresses were available on record. In
 response, 23 complainants/victims have joined the investigation so far, and
 their statements under section 161 CrPC have been recorded. In these
 statements, the complainants/victims categorially named the accused
 persons and affirmed that, during their visits to the office of M/s Ladder
 Groups, they were introduced by tele-callers to Ms. Archana Katariya and
 Mr. Deepak Bhardwaj @Neeraj Kumar as the owners of the firm. The
 accused persons allegedly misrepresented material facts and fraudulently
 induced the victims to make monetary payments. Several
 complainants/victims also stated that the Applicant personally
 communicated with them over the phone, demanding money under various
 pretexts such as medical examinations, insurance, and administrative
 charges. 2.4. The fraudulent scheme was executed through aggressive digital
 marketing. The accused persons established an office in Sector 10, Rohini, 2 " IPC " This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 19/04/2025 at 01:07:37
 Delhi, where 10-15 tele-callers were hired via job portals like Work India
 and trained by Ms. Archana Katariya and the Applicant. The Applicant
 created Facebook pages falsely presenting the tele-callers as "visa
 counsellors," and featuring misleading content to attract job seekers from
 India and Nepal. A website was also developed, and paid advertisements on
 Facebook were used to target individuals seeking overseas employment. The
 trained tele-callers then misled these individuals with false promises and
 concealed critical information. 2.5. During the investigation, the whereabouts of the accused Ms. Chhavi
 Sharma were identified. Upon serving a notice under Section 41A CrPC, she
 joined the investigation, and during interrogation, revealed that Neeraj
 Kumar had been using a fake identity as Deepak Bhardwaj to commit the
 alleged offences. She further disclosed that the accused persons, Ms.
 Archana Katariya and the Applicant were partners in the M/s Ladders group.
 Additionally, she stated that she was employed in the firm as a visa
 counsellor on a monthly salary with an incentive-based structure.
 2.6. Based on information provided by accused Chhavi Sharma, Archana
 Katariya and the Applicant were identified and traced, leading to a raid in
 Zirakpur, Punjab. A notice under Section 41A CrPC was served on Ms.
 Archana Katariya, however, due to her non-cooperation and evasive
 responses, she was arrested on 24th April 2024. At her instance, 10 mobile
 phones, 2 laptops, and 3 passports were seized. She admitted to having
 conspired with the Applicant in planning and executing the fraudulent
 scheme and confirmed that both of them were partners in the firm.
 2.7. The investigation into the roles of the accused persons, namely
 Chhavi Sharma and Archana Katariya was also carried out. Upon BAIL APPLN. 468/2025 Page 3 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 19/04/2025 at 01:07:38
 completion of the investigation concerning them, the first charge sheet was
 prepared under sections 406 , 409 , 419 , 420 and 120 B IPC and was filed
 before the Trial court on 19th July, 2024. 2.8. The Applicant wilfully evaded investigation despite being duly served
 with a notice under Section 41A of CrPC. His continued non-cooperation
 resulted in the issuance of a Non-Bailable Warrant (NBW) on 28th June
 2024, followed by a non-execution report submitted on 31st July 2024. In
 light of his repeated attempts to avoid investigation, proceedings under Section 82 CrPC were initiated by the Trial Court on 1 st August 2024. While
 these proceedings were pending, the Applicant voluntarily surrendered
 before the Trial Court on 10th September 2024 and was taken into custody.
 2.9. During custodial interrogation, the Applicant disclosed that the money
 obtained through fraudulent activities was used to finance the construction
 of his hotel in Bathinda. To verify this claim, contractor Gurjit Singh was
 examined, who confirmed that Applicant had paid him 25 lakhs in cash in
 2023, without any formal contract for the construction. The investigation
 concerning Applicant was concluded with the submission of a
 Supplementary Chargesheet before the Court on 30th November 2024. 3. Mr. Madhav Khurana, Senior Counsel for the Petitioner, urges the
 following grounds, for seeking bail: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 19/04/2025 at 01:07:38
 diligently, which were limited to the collection of documents. The Applicant
 neither had knowledge of the alleged fraudulent activities, nor maintained
 any direct interaction with the victims. 3.2. Furthermore, the alleged amounts deposited by the victims, has been
 received by M/s Ladders Groups/Archana Katariya and not by the
 Applicant. The payments were allegedly transferred to the bank account of
 M/s Ladders Group or paid in cash for which receipts have been issued
 under the name of M/s Ladders Group, signed and executed by Archana
 Katariya, and not the Applicant. Thus, no money whatsoever was received
 by the Applicant, or transferred to his account. There has been no unlawful
 gain by the Applicant for him to be implicated in the alleged offences. Thus,
 no case under sections 406 , 409 or 420 of the IPC are made out against the
 Applicant. 3.3. No notice under section 41-A was served on the wrong address and
 the Applicant never received the same. 3.4. The Applicant has been in custody since 10th September, 2024. The
 investigation is complete and chargesheet has been filed and therefore the
 Applicant's presence for investigative purposes is no longer necessary. 4. Mr. Amit Ahlawat, APP for the State, on the other hand, strongly
 opposes the bail application. He submits that the prosecution has gathered
 strong and direct evidence linking the Applicant to the fraudulent activities
 establishing his active role in the commission of the offences. He submits
 that the Applicant has been explicitly named by the victims in the FIR and
 all subsequent complaints as a joint owner of the alleged Ladder Groups,
 along with the co-accused. The investigation has confirmed that he used a
 false identity as Deepak Bhardwaj to commit the offense. Multiple victims BAIL APPLN. 468/2025 Page 5 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 19/04/2025 at 01:07:38
 have provided statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C, corroborating the
 allegations and identifying the accused. Further, Rajesh Kumar, the web
 developer, confirmed that he was instructed by Neeraj Kumar @ Deepak
 Bhardwaj to create the Ladder Groups website, further proving his
 involvement. Several victims identified the Applicant in photographs as one
 of the key perpetrators. Mr. Ahlawat further points out that the Applicant is
 a habitual offender and was previously involved in FIR No. 24/2024,
 registered at PS Crime Branch, Indore Urban, Madhya Pradesh, in relation
 to which, he was arrested on 27th February, 2025. 5. The Court has duly considered the aforenoted contentions. According
 to the statements of the victims/complainants, the payments were made
 either through cheques or in cash and were received by M/s Ladders Group.
 The alleged cheated amount is approximately INR 2.50 crores, out of which
 around INR 1 crore was deposited in cash and the remaining through
 cheques in the name of M/s Ladders Group. Based on the material on record,
 prima facie, all these payments appear to have been received by M/s
 Ladders Group, whose proprietor is Ms. Archana Katariya. There is no
 evidence on record indicating any cash or bank transactions involving the
 Applicant. Moreover, no online transfer of funds from the account of M/s
 Ladders Group to the Applicant has been traced. 6. Additionally, the Court finds merit in the contention of Mr. Khurana
 that the evidence and material disclosed in the chargesheet, is prima facie
 not sufficient to implicate the Applicant under Section 409 of the IPC to
 justify denial of bail. 7. Furthermore, it is well established through catena of judgments by the
 Supreme Court that the object of granting bail is neither punitive nor BAIL APPLN. 468/2025 Page 6 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 19/04/2025 at 01:07:38
 preventative. The primary aim sought to be achieved by bail is to secure the
 attendance of the accused person at the trial.3 The Applicant has been in
 custody since 10th September, 2024. The investigation is complete, and the
 chargesheet has been filed. Thus, no purpose would be served by continuing
 the incarceration of the Applicant. 8. Having regard to the aforenoted facts and circumstances and the fact
 that the Applicant has been in custody since 10 th September, 2024, the Court
 finds that there is substantial ground for Applicant to be released on bail. 9. The Applicant is, therefore, directed to be released on bail on
 furnishing a personal bond for a sum of ₹50,000/- with one surety of the like
 amount, subject to the satisfaction of the Jail Superintendent/Trial
 Court/Duty MM, on the following conditions: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 19/04/2025 at 01:07:38
 e. The Applicant shall, upon his release, give his mobile number to the
 concerned IO/SHO and shall keep his mobile phone switched on at all times. f. The Applicant shall report to the concerned PS on first Friday of
 every month; 10. It is clarified that the Applicant shall not be released on bail, if he is in
 custody for any other case(s) filed against him, unless he secures bail in such
 other case(s) as well. 11. The bail application is allowed in the afore-mentioned terms. SANJEEV NARULA, J
 APRIL 17, 2025
 nk BAIL APPLN. 468/2025 Page 8 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 19/04/2025 at 01:07:38