1. The appellant - original accused (hereafter referred to

 as "accused") was tried along with one Mohammad Yunus for

 offence punishable under Sections 489(B) and 489(C) read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ( IPC in brief) in ::: Uploaded on - 15/07/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 16/07/2016 00:02:07 ::: Criminal Appeal No.510/2015 2 Sessions Case No.83/2012 before Additional Sessions Judge-5,

 
 Aurangabad and, while the other accused came to be acquitted

 as there was no evidence against the said accused, the appellant

 
 was convicted for these Sections. He was sentenced to suffer

 rigorous imprisonment for ten years and fine of Rs.5000/-, in

 
 default of fine, to suffer simple imprisonment for one month,

 under Section 489(B) of IPC. For offence under Section 489(C) ,

 
 he was convicted and sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment
 
 for seven years and to pay fine of Rs.5000/- and in default, to

 suffer simple imprisonment for one month. Thus these appeals. 2. The case of prosecution in short is as under : Through Deputy Commissioner of Police S.S. Garge, P.W.4 P.S.I.

 
 Harish got sent a letter to Department of Currency Management,

 informing the numbers of the currency notes which had been

 
 seized so that Rs.1000/- denomination currency notes in

 circulation in the market could be kept under observation. After

 
 the investigation, charge sheet came to be filed and the accused

 was put up to trial. Accused No.2 was stated to be his

 
 accomplice and two accused Nos.3 and 4 were shown as
 
 absconding, in whose accounts it was claimed accused No.1 had

 earlier deposited amounts. 3. Prosecution brought on record evidence of six
 

 witnesses and the documentary evidence was also proved. The
 

 defence of the accused, as can be seen from the cross- examination and his statement under section 313 of the Code of

 Criminal Procedure ( Cr.P.C . in brief) is that of denial. 4. The trial Court, after considering the oral and

 documentary evidence, convicted the accused and sentence as

 mentioned above was passed. 5. I have heard learned counsel for the appellant - accused as well as the learned A.P.P. for State. Various grounds

 have been raised by the counsel for the appellant - accused and ::: Uploaded on - 15/07/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 16/07/2016 00:02:07 ::: Criminal Appeal No.510/2015 5 in reply, the learned A.P.P. rebutted the same and relied on the

 
 reasonings recorded by the trial Court to submit that the offence

 has been established. I will refer to the arguments for deciding

 
 the matter while discussing the evidence. 6. On record, firstly there is evidence of P.W.2 Dinesh

 Mahale and P.W.3 Raju Vetal, the neighbouring shopkeeper. The

 
 evidence of these two witnesses shows that, the accused indeed
 
 had gone to the shop of P.W.2 Dinesh and on purchasing

 Vodafone Recharge of Rs.100/-, he tendered a currency note of
 
 Rs.1000/-. P.W.2 Dinesh deposed that he had suspicion about

 the currency note given by the accused to be fake and he had
 

 told the accused that he does not have change and went to the
 

 adjacent shop of P.W.3 Raju. The evidence of P.W.3 shows that

 P.W.2 Dinesh came to him and showed him the currency note

 and expressed his suspicion that the same was forged. P.W.3 did

 not depose that he also felt the note to be forged, but the

 evidence of both these witnesses is that a phone call was made

 to the police and police was called. Both these witnesses say

 that the other of them made the phone call. That, however, is

 not material. Important is that a phone call was made when the

 note of Rs.1000/- tendered by the accused was suspected by

 P.W.2 Dinesh to be fake and police did come to the shop of P.W.2

 Dinesh. The evidence of these two witnesses show that, with the ::: Uploaded on - 15/07/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 16/07/2016 00:02:07 ::: Criminal Appeal No.510/2015 6 help of people who had gathered, the accused was caught by

 
 them and when police came, he was handed over to the police. Regarding this evidence, although efforts have been made in the

 
 cross-examination to shatter these witnesses, I do not find that

 the witnesses are shattered on this count. There is no reason for

 
 these two witnesses to unnecessarily speak against the accused

 or that they had any axe to grind against the accused to involve

 
 him for no reason. 7. The evidence of P.Ws.2 and 3 read with the evidence
 
 of P.W.1 Panch Sanjay, P.W.5 P.S.I. Baburao Bodke and P.W.6

 P.I. Dabbewad shows that, police reached the shop of P.W.2
 

 Dinesh and the accused was taken charge of by the police and
 

 the currency note of Rs.1000/- tendered by the accused was

 taken in charge by the police. The seizure panchanama Exh.36

 shows this note to be having No.2BD 790666 . The subsequent

 report from Currency Note Press Exh.46 admissible under Section

 292 of the Cr.P.C. has found this note (along with others) to be

 counterfeit. I find the evidence that this one note of Rs.1000/- tendered by accused to P.W.2 Dinesh and which was seized by

 police has been proved to be counterfeit note. The note was

 tendered by the accused and thus, these facts are established in

 the present matter. I agree with the trial Court on this count. 8. Now the question is of the remaining 32 currency

 
 notes said to have been seized from the right side pocket of the

 trouser of accused. In this regard, there is evidence of the above

 
 prosecution witnesses that, when the police came, they searched

 the person of the accused and from his pocket, 32 currency notes

 
 were seized, the numbers of which notes were entered in the

 panchanama Exh.36. The learned counsel for the accused

 
 argued that, the seizure could not be said to be proved as there
 
 was no material to show that the police offered or gave their own

 search before searching the pockets of the accused. 9. If the evidence of P.W.1, who is the panch, is
 

 perused, it shows that, he was called and told that a currency
 

 note of Rs.1000/- is found with the accused, and his evidence is

 that, the police then searched the person of the accused and took

 out 32 fake currency notes from the right side pocket of the

 trouser of accused. He deposed (in para 4 of his cross- examination) that, accused No.1 did not take personal search of

 him and the other panch and police had also not given their

 personal search to the accused. In this context, the panchanama

 Exh.36 is silent and does not say anything that the search was

 offered and declined by the accused or that the accused had

 taken personal search of the police and panchas. The evidence

 of P.Ws.2 and 3 is silent regarding any search being offered, ::: Uploaded on - 15/07/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 16/07/2016 00:02:07 ::: Criminal Appeal No.510/2015 8 declined, given or taken. The evidence of P.W.5 shows that, this

 
 P.S.I., who is the complainant, admitted (in para 3 of his

 evidence) that it is necessary for the police officer and panchas

 
 to give their personal search before taking search of any suspect

 and the said fact is required to be mentioned in the panchanama. As mentioned, the panchanama is silent on this count. In fact,

 the F.I.R. Exh.53 filed by this P.W.3 also does not mention that

 
 before searching the person of the accused any personal search
 
 was offered to him or that he declined or that the accused

 searched the persons of the police and panchas before his
 
 personal search was taken. In oral evidence, however, P.W.6

 P.I. Dabbewad claimed that, after the panchas reached, he had
 

 asked the accused about their search in presence of panch
 

 witness, but he refused. According to this investigating officer,

 after the accused refused to take their search, they had searched

 the person of the accused and found 32 currency notes. In the

 cross-examination, this P.W.6 Dabbewad had to admit that the

 panchanama Exh.36 does not disclose that the accused had

 declined to take search. 10. Looking to the above discussion, I find that, the

 prosecution failed to prove that before putting their hands in the

 pocket of the accused the police had given their own personal

 search. Looking to the facts of the present matter, where seizure ::: Uploaded on - 15/07/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 16/07/2016 00:02:07 ::: Criminal Appeal No.510/2015 9 of 32 currency notes of Rs.1000/- are shown from the pocket of

 
 the accused, which would not be a volume not possible to plant, I

 find that it was necessary to establish that proper procedure for

 
 search was followed and personal search was offered to the

 accused. This is not to say that the notes were planted in the

 
 pocket, but looking to the gravity of the matter, it was

 responsibility of the police to give fair opportunity to accused and

 
 to also make record of the same to claim that offence is proved

 beyond reasonable doubts. 11. I will ignore the oral evidence of P.W.6 that the police

 had offered their search but the accused refused. 12. I thus find that, the duly established fact is only of

 the seizure of one currency note of Rs.1000/-, which was

 tendered by the accused to the shopkeeper P.W.2 Dinesh. Now,

 before further discussing the oral evidence, I find it appropriate

 to make a reference to the judgment in the matter of Umashankar Vs. State of Chhattisgarh [(2001) 9 SCC 642] and

 the judgment of M. Mammutti Vs. State of Karnataka (1979) 4

 SCC 723 relied on by the learned counsel for accused. 13. It has been argued by the learned counsel for the

 accused that, proving of mere fact of the accused being in ::: Uploaded on - 15/07/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 16/07/2016 00:02:07 ::: Criminal Appeal No.510/2015 10 possession of counterfeit currency note or notes is not enough to

 
 hold that Section 489(B) or 489(C) is established. The learned

 counsel has rightly relied on the wordings of these Sections,

 
 where it is provided that, the using of the counterfeit currency or

 possession of the counterfeit currency is punishable if the

 
 accused was "knowing or having reason to believe the same to

 be forged or counterfeit. 14. In the matter of " Umashankar " (supra), the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court, after referring to Sections 489(B) and 489(C) ,
 
 observed in para 8 as follows : 15. In the matter of " M. Mammutti " (supra), the

 appellant before the Hon'ble Supreme Court was found in

 possession of 2 rupee currency notes which were found to be

 
 counterfeit. The appellant-accused in that matter claimed that,
 
 two days earlier he had sold 3 quintals of tamarind fruits to a
 
 person, who had given him a sum of Rs.390/- and that the

 currency notes had been given to him by the said purchaser. The appellant therein claimed that, he did not know that these
 

 currency notes were counterfeit. The Hon'ble Apex Court
 

 observed in that matter that, there was no evidence of any

 witness to show that the counterfeit notes were of such a nature

 or description that a mere look at them would convince any

 person of average intelligence that it was a counterfeit note. The

 observations of the Hon'ble Apex Court are as under : . . . . . . . . . . . . "Mr. Nettar submitted that once the 
 appellant is found in possession of counterfeit notes, 
 he must be presumed to know that the notes are 
 counterfeit. If the notes were of such a nature that ::: Uploaded on - 15/07/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 16/07/2016 00:02:07 ::: Criminal Appeal No.510/2015 12 mere look at them would convince anybody that it 
 was a counterfeit such a presumption could 

 
 reasonably be drawn. But the difficulty is that the 
 prosecution has not put any specific question to the 
 appellant in order to find out whether the accused 

 
 knew that the notes were of such a nature." 16. Looking to the above judgments of the Hon'ble

 
 Supreme Court, it is clear that, mens rea in such matters is an

 important ingredient. The mens rea could be attributed if the

 
 notes are of such a nature that mere look at them would
 
 convince anybody of reasonable intelligence that it is counterfeit. In the present matter, in the statement under Section 313 of
 
 Cr.P.C., the accused was asked, and informed that the report

 Exh.46 from currency note press showed that the currency notes
 

 were counterfeit. The accused did not give any explanation in his
 

 statement under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. However, looking to the

 above two judgments of the Hon'ble Apex Court, it would be

 necessary to see if the evidence brought on record is sufficient to

 show that the accused had the necessary mens rea that the note

 or notes which were in his possession were counterfeit. With this

 object, I have examined the evidence. The evidence of P.Ws.2

 and 3 is that when after talking between them it was felt by them

 that the currency is fake they caught the accused and kept him

 waiting for about half an hour till police came. These witnesses

 are silent regarding the talk they had with the accused at such

 time. In ordinary and natural course of conduct, they must have ::: Uploaded on - 15/07/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 16/07/2016 00:02:07 ::: Criminal Appeal No.510/2015 13 told the accused that according to them the note tendered by

 
 him is fake and so he must keep waiting till police come. The

 accused would, in natural course, have said something. He was

 
 not accused at that point of time. No material has come as to

 what was their conversation when they forcibly kept the accused

 
 waiting till police came. Then, when the police came and

 panchas were called, and seizure took place, the evidence of

 
 P.W.1 Panch Sanjay and the police officials P.W.5 P.S.I. Baburao
 
 and P.W.6 Dabbewad is silent regarding any opportunity being

 given to the accused to explain as to from where he got the
 
 concerned note or notes. The F.I.R. Exh.53 has recorded in a

 vague manner that when the articles were seized from the
 

 accused and he was asked about the notes, the accused was
 

 giving "Udvaudvichi Uttare" i.e. evasive replies. In the search of

 the accused, apart from other things, 2 Pay-in-slips of State Bank

 of India were also found, in which certain Account numbers had

 been entered regarding deposit of Rs.25,000/- on two occasions

 in two different accounts on 28.9.2011 and 29.9.2011. Although

 a mobile phone was seized and a diary with telephone numbers

 was found, prosecution brought on record no material of source

 of the amounts. This, in spite of the fact that during the course

 of investigation P.W.4 P.S.I. Harish took over the investigation so

 that the Crime Branch would look into the matter. Cross- examination of P.W.6 Dabbewad shows that, on 30.9.2011, vide ::: Uploaded on - 15/07/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 16/07/2016 00:02:07 ::: Criminal Appeal No.510/2015 14 Exh.59, State Bank was informed of the deposits made by

 
 accused in the two accounts. There appears endorsement on the

 document by Bank that the notes which had been accepted were

 
 genuine. 17. As observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

 matter of M. Mammutti, it is now necessary to see if the

 
 prosecution proved that the notes were of such a nature that a
 
 mere look at them would convince anybody that the same was

 counterfeit. If this would be so, knowledge could be attributed to
 
 the accused. In this context, I have gone through the evidence. P.W.2 deposed that, when accused offered him the currency note
 

 of Rs.1000/-, he had "suspicion" about the currency note to be
 

 fake. To verify, he went to P.W.3 Raju Vetal. Thus, P.W.2

 Dinesh had only a suspicion. In his cross-examination, he

 deposed that, the fake currency note which was given to him,

 wire of the same was coming out and its colour was removing. In this regard, the Currency Note Press in report Exh.46 has

 mentioned that the security thread in the notes was imitated and

 with reference to "printing ink colour", it is reported that the ink

 shades were not matching. The report does not appear to be

 stating that on touch, the colour was going off. In this context,

 the evidence of P.W.3 Raju Vetal shows in cross-examination

 (para 3) that if the currency note was to be seen from distance, ::: Uploaded on - 15/07/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 16/07/2016 00:02:07 ::: Criminal Appeal No.510/2015 15 he could not identify whether it was fake or original currency

 
 note. Further, there is evidence of P.W.5 as well as it is

 mentioned in the F.I.R. Exh.53 that after the seizure was done at

 
 the shop of P.W.2, the police along with the accused went and

 met the Branch Manager of State Bank of India, Main Branch to

 
 get the currency notes checked. Evidence of P.W.5 is that, the

 Branch Manager told the police that the 33 currency notes were

 
 counterfeit. His evidence is that, thereafter the police along with
 
 accused went to Police Station and he lodged the complaint. This

 evidence shows that, even the police wanted to be sure before
 
 they register the offence that the currency notes were

 counterfeit. Keeping such evidence in view, prosecution has not
 

 proved that the notes were of such a nature that mere look at
 

 them would convince anybody that it was counterfeit. When this

 is so, it cannot be presumed that, the accused had knowledge

 that the note or notes which were in his possession were

 counterfeit. Prosecution did not bring on record any further

 evidence which would show source from where the accused got

 the notes or any other material sufficient to assume that accused

 had the requisite knowledge, or that he had reason to believe the

 same to be counterfeit. 18. The learned counsel for the appellant - accused

 pointed out the evidence of P.W.1 where he deposed that when ::: Uploaded on - 15/07/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 16/07/2016 00:02:07 ::: Criminal Appeal No.510/2015 16 the accused was caught, he did not try to run away. Then there

 
 is evidence of P.W.3 Raju Vetal, which shows (in para 4 of his

 evidence) that when they asked the accused to stop in the shop

 
 till arrival of the police, the accused told them to let the police

 come and he will remain there till arrival of police. There is no

 
 material that in the time of about half an hour when accused was

 kept waiting till police came, he tried to quietly throw off, drop

 
 aside or get rid of the 32 notes from his pocket. The evidence of
 
 P.W.5 P.S.I. Baburao shows that when the police reached the

 concerned shop, the accused was sitting there and two persons
 
 were near him. There is substance in the arguments of the

 learned counsel for the appellant-accused that this conduct of the
 

 accused also needs to be kept in view while appreciating the
 

 evidence regarding the knowledge or reason to believe. According to the counsel, if the accused knew or had reason to

 believe that he was carrying counterfeit currency notes, he would

 have reacted when P.W.2 went giving some excuse to P.W.3 with

 the currency note. The accused did not try to slip away or run

 away. 19. Looking to the above discussion, I find that the

 prosecution failed to prove important ingredient of the offence

 that the accused was knowing or had reason to believe that the

 note or notes he was in possession were counterfeit or forged. This being so, the judgment of conviction and sentence as passed

 
 by the trial Court cannot be maintained. 20. I pass the following order :