The petitioner-tenant challenges the order dated 17.9.2015

passed by the Rent Controller, Chandigarh whereby his application for

directing the landlord to give his thumb impressions for the purpose of

examination from a hand writing expert had been dismissed. The ground

taken is that the Court cannot be a tool to collect evidence for any of the

parties and it is for the parties to discharge their burden of proof. It has

been further observed that when the evidence is to be led the tenant cannot

be allowed to tell the landlord in which manner evidence is to be led by him. The said reasoning cannot be held to be justified and the order

can be termed as a non-speaking order. It is the case of the respondent-landlord that he is

owner/landlord of the tenanted premises which was allotted by the

Chandigarh Housing Board in the year 1993. It is further alleged that the

landlord had mortgaged the house to one Jagdish Mittal and the petitioner- 1 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 05-06-2017 10:37:48 ::: Civil Revision No.8028 of 2015(O&M) -2- ****

tenant had come to the house along with one Vasu Dev who is his cousin

and assured that he would repay the mortgaged amount to said Jagdish

Mittal. Resultantly, he was inducted as tenant in the year 2002.

Resultantly, eviction petition was filed on various grounds including the

non payment of rent and bonafide requirement. The tenant's case was that house had been sold to Smt.

Shayamawati wife of Vasu Dev and reliance was placed upon various

documents like GPA, will, affidavit and agreement to sell etc. It was

further alleged that she had sold the house to the petitioner-tenant and he

was thus owner of the premises in question and there was no relationship of

landlord and tenant interse the parties. The issues were framed on 21.12.2011 and in view of the denial

of relationship of landlord and tenant, no provisional assessment of rent had

been made. Issue no.1 framed was regarding the relationship of landlord

and tenant between the parties and issue no.5 was whether the landlord had

sold the house to one Smt. Shayamawati who had further sold the same to

the petitioner-tenant. The onus of issue no.5 was thus put upon the

petitioner-tenant. It is in such circumstances the application (Annexure P/5)

was filed on 12.1.2015 (Annexure P/5) for taking thumb impressions so that

they could be examined by the hand writing expert and compared with the

documents. The same was contested by filing reply on the ground that there

was a delay and the petition was filed in August, 2010. It was further held

out that the documents which are relied upon were false and fabricated and

therefore, it would cause prejudice to the landlord. As noticed the Rent Controller, Chandigarh has failed to take

 2 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 05-06-2017 10:37:49 ::: Civil Revision No.8028 of 2015(O&M) -3- ****

into consideration that the tenant as such was to lead his evidence and onus

of issue no.5 was upon him. It is in such circumstances he had filed the said

application. The controversy as such rotates around the fact that whether

there was any relationship of landlord and tenant interse the parties and

whether whether the sale had been effected in favour of the tenant. The

application thus would help the Court to adjudicate upon the issue which it

had failed to appreciate rather a finding has been recorded that the landlord

cannot be told in which manner the evidence is to be led. As noticed it was

at the stage of the evidence which was to be led by the tenant and therefore,

the observations also would go on to show that the Rent Controller,

Chandigarh did not take into consideration the fact that the onus was on the

tenant to prove issue no.5 and therefore, he asked for the necessary

permission. The argument which has now been raised by the counsel for the

respondent is that the said documents are forged and fabricated and the

original documents are not on record. However, it is not clear from the reply filed whether the

original documents have been placed on record or not. This aspect has not

been appreciated by the Court as such. The fact remains that by virtue of

the said order the right of the petitioner to lead evidence on the basis of

pleadings as such has been denied and the order passed by the Rent

Controller, Chandigarh thus suffers from material irregularity and illegality

and cannot sustain. Accordingly, the present revision petition is allowed. The

order dated 17.9.2015 passed by the Rent Controller, Chandigarh is set

 3 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 05-06-2017 10:37:49 ::: Civil Revision No.8028 of 2015(O&M) -4- ****

aside. The Rent Controller shall redecide the application in question afresh

after taking into consideration whether the original documents from which

the thumb impressions are to be taken are available on record or not. The

necessary exercise be conducted within a period of two months from the

receipt of a certified copy of this order.