In writ petitions No.6546/2023 and 6550/2023

the petitioner-companies are aggrieved of a portion of

Government Order bearing No. ENERGY 74 NCE 2022,

Bengaluru, dated, 25.11.2022 and they are seeking to

quash communications at Annexure-N, whereby they

are forced to comply with the offending portion of the

Government Order dated 25.11.2022 and to submit a

revised proposal and revised WTG co-ordinates. The

said petitioners are also seeking directions to the

respondent-Karnataka Renewable Energy

Development Limited (KREDL) to allow the

applications of the 1st petitioner to transfer a portion

of the allotment in favor of the 2nd petitioner. The

petitioners in the other two writ petitions in

W.P.No.11271/2023 and 11272/2023 (M/s. FP Sun

Spark/ FPEL Trizoners) who have been granted

Government Orders at the hands of the KREDL are -12- aggrieved of condition No.7 imposed in the

Government Orders. The said condition seeks to

carve out such areas for the benefit of the petitioners

in W.P.No.6546/2023 and 6550/2023. The grievances

being interlinked, the writ petitions were clubbed,

heard together and are being disposed of by this

common order. 2. For the sake of convenience M/s. Vish Wind

will be referred to as petitioner No.1, M/s. VAAYU

RENEWABLE ENERGY (MEVASA) PRIVATE LIMITED, will be

referred to as petitioner No.2 and M/s. FP Sun Spark/

FPEL Trizoners will be referred to as the

private/contesting respondents. 3. The undisputed facts are that having regard

to the aspirations of the State of Karnataka to develop

renewable energy, the 2nd respondent-KREDL was

chosen as a nodal agency for implementation and

encouragement of renewal energy projects in the -13- State of Karnataka and in terms of the Karnataka

Renewable Energy Policy, 2009-2014, KREDL notified

advertisements calling upon private entrepreneurs to

invest and set up renewal energy projects in the State

of Karnataka. In terms of the policy, KREDL would

receive the applications, examine the proposals and

submit the same to the State Government along with

its recommendations. The applicants had to file

applications for capacity allotment for the proposed

renewal energy project along with stipulated

documents and fees. KREDL would forward the

applications along with its recommendations to the

Allotment Committee. The Allotment Committee would

consider the proposal along with the recommendations

of the KRDEL and forward the same with its own

recommendations to the government. The

government would take the final decision on issuance

of the Government Order for capacity allotment. The -14- Government Order would permit the project with

specific capacity and earmark locations where the

projects may be set up. On issuance of the

Government Order the allottee was required to

execute an agreement with KREDL for allotment of

capacity. Provision was made for the allottee to seek

enhancement of capacity of the project or the area.

Provision was also made for transfer of rights in the

capacity allotment to a third party, by making an

application to KREDL. The timeline for completion of

the project, is as stipulated in Clause-9(v) of the RE

2009-14 Policy. 4. The 1st Petitioner-Vish Wind Infrastrukture LLP

(hereinafter referred to as 'Vish Wind', for short) filed

an application on 20.02.2019 and Government Order

bearing No.EN 137 NCE 2019, dated 11.05.2020 was

issued in favour of the 1st petitioner. The geographical

area allotted to the 1st petitioner was demarked into -15- two parts. Part 'A' consisted of geographical area in

Dharwad District and Part 'B' in Gadag District. Since

the Government Order did not specify the Wind power

capacity for each of the two areas, by way of an

amendment, Government Order dated 19.02.2021

was issued. As per the amendment, Part 'A' was

allotted 6.4 MW capacity and Part 'B' was allotted 1.6

MW capacity. 5. The Government of Karnataka notified new

RE Policy, 2022-2027 on 30.04.2022. Under the new

Policy the applicant is reqired to furnish an application

containing the project details including the co-

ordinates of each WTG (Wind Turbine Generators)

along with the survey number of the land required for

the implementation of the project. As per the new

Policy the developer is required to conduct the

technical feasibility study and Wind source assessment

in advance and submit a detailed project report -16- including the WTG co-ordinates, along with the

application. The marked difference between the old

and new policy is, unlike the old policy where large

tract of lands could be sought for and allotted, in the

new policy specifics of the maximum land area/space

to be utilized by the developer for Wind project is

stipulated. For upto 2.5 MW WTG - 5 acres is

allowed per WTG; from 2.51 MW to 4 MW- 10 acres

are allowed per WTG; above 4 MW WTG land

requirement shall be reviewed from time to time

based on the models approved by MNRE in the RLMM.

The project developer is required to tender micro

siting as per MNRE guidelines for development of

onshore Wind power projects. 6. Consequent to the notification of the new RE

Policy, the 1st petitioner was directed to resubmit the

proposal demarcating the land area for 8 MW (6.4 +

1.6 MW) which was granted earlier to the 1st petitioner -17- and that the proposal should be in conformity with the

new policy which stipulated 4 acres per WTG. The 1st

petitioner was also informed that if the WTG co-

ordinates are not received from the 1st petitioner

within 10 days from the date of notice dated

25.01.2023 at Annexure-H, the land requirement for 8

MW capacity shall be considered as 4 acres per WTG.

The 1st petitioner gave a reply dated 02.02.2023

stating that there was some delay in completing study

activities due to COVID and lockdown but, it will utilize

the entire geographical area mentioned in the

Government Order dated 11.05.2020 by filing

necessary application within 12 to 16 weeks from the

date of the said reply. Thereafter, the 1st petitioner

filed an application seeking to transfer 2.10 MW out of

6.4 MW in favor of the 2nd petitioner and

simultaneously 2nd petitioner filed an application for

transfer of 2.10 MW out of 6.4 MW from the 1st -18- petitioner and sought enhancement of 2.1 MW

capacity to 96.60 MW. It is contended that the 2nd

petitioner paid the prescribed fee of Rs.1,09,65,150/-

along with the application. The respondent-KREDL did

not accept the proposal of the petitioners for transfer

and enhancement on the ground that some of the

proposed WTG co-ordinates of the 2nd petitioner were

over lapping with other project proposals. The 2nd

petitioner was directed to submit revised proposal

with revised WTG co-ordinates. The petitioners

understood that the other project proposals which

were referred in the communication dated 08.03.2023

were respondents No.3 and 4 (writ petitioners in

W.P.No.11271/2023 and 11272/2023). The writ

petitioners in W.P.Nos.6456/2023 and 6550/2023 are

aggrieved of the non-acceptance of their application

for transfer and enhancement of the capacity. -19- 7. On the other hand, the contesting

respondents who are also the writ petitioners in

W.P.No.11271/2023 and 11272/2023 viz., M/s. FP

Sun Spark/ FPEL Trizoners, are aggrieved of the

inclusion of condition No.7 in their respective

Government Orders. It is the contention of the

respondents that since the application for transfer and

enhancement of the capacity filed by the petitioners

was rejected by KREDL, such condition as found in

Clause -7 could not have been imposed in the

Government Order granted to the respondents. 8. Learned Senior Counsel Sri.S.S.Naganand

appearing on behalf of Vish Wind submits that having

regard to the timelines found in Clause -9(v) of RE

2009-14 Policy, which is applicable to the 1st

petitioner, the wind power project had to be

completed within 6½ years including all extensions.

The timeline for completion of renewal energy project -20- stood amended by corrigendum dated 18.07.2011,

much before the Government Order was issued in

favor of the 1st petitioner. The Government Order

having been issued to the 1st petitioner on

11.05.2020, the Clauses contained in the old RE Policy

2009-14 alone can be made applicable and therefore,

the 1st petitioner had every right to seek transfer and

enhancement of capacity till 11.11.2026. In that view

of the matter, the learned Senior Counsel submits that

KREDL could not have rejected the application for

transfer in favour of the 2nd petitioner and it could not

have rejected the application for enhancement of

capacity. 9. In this regard, the learned Senior Counsel

Sri.S.S.Naganand sought to place reliance on the

following judgments in support of his contentions that

the doctrine of promissory estoppel applied to the

State. All administrative orders should ordinarily be -21- considered prospective in nature. When a policy

decision is required to be given a retrospective

operation, it must be stated so expressly or by

necessary implication; ( 1) Kusumam Hotels Pvt. Ltd., Vs. Kerala
 State Electricity Board and Ors. ( 2008)
 13 SCC 213
 (2) Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd., and others
 Vs. TATA Communications Ltd. e tc. and
 Others 2022 SCC Online SC 1280
 (3) Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills Co. Ltd.,
 Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and others
 (1979) 2 SCC 409 10. The learned Senior Counsel for the

petitioners also brought to the notice of this Court that

when these matters came for preliminary hearing, an

interim order was passed on 23.03.2023 staying the

operation of the Government Order dated 25.11.2022

and communication dated 25.01.2023 at Annexure-H

till the next date of hearing. It is submitted that -22- although the interim orders passed by this Court was

brought to the notice of the respondent-State and

KREDL, a Government Order dated 24.03.2023 was

issued in favour of the contesting respondents. The

learned Senior Counsel would therefore contend that

the respondent-State, KREDL and M/s. FP Sun Spark/

FPEL Trizoners should not be permitted to justify the

allotment made to the contesting respondents in

terms of a Government Order which was issued in

violation of the court orders. On the same lines, it is

contended that the contesting respondents will have

no locus standi to question the imposition of condition

No.7 in this Government Order, since the said

Government Order itself is liable to be cancelled and

set aside. It was pointed out that in the case of Prestige Lights Ltd., Vs. State Bank of India (2007)

8 SCC 449, it was held that if orders of the courts are -23- disobeyed, the court may refuse the party violating

such order to hear the party on merits. 11. Per contra, the State, KREDL and the

contesting respondents seek to vehemently oppose

the contentions of the petitioners. Although it is not

disputed that the contract awarded to the 1st

petitioner on 11.05.2020 was on the basis of RE 2009-

2014 policy, nevertheless, the policy was already on

reconsideration having regard to the deficiencies

found in the policy. In this regard, attention of this

Court was drawn to a decision of a co-ordinate bench

of this Court in the case of SRK Energy Pvt. Ltd.,

/vs./ State of Karnataka and Others in

W.P.No.9174/2022 and connected matters. It

was pointed out that under similar circumstances

where a portion of the earmarked land was divested

and allotted to another entity, and such diversion was

questioned before this Court, this Court held that -24- there is force in the contention of the contesting

respondents that the petitioners whose claims have

not yet become concrete and choate, cannot seek to

stick on to a particular piece of earth, especially when

KREDL has assured that the petitioners can be

accommodated in any other piece of land comprised in

the vast extent already earmarked in favour of the

petitioners. It is submitted that such a contention

raised at the hands of prior allottee was negated while

holding that the petitioners are not justified in raising

a hue and cry as if the heavens have fallen down;

granting relief as claimed by them virtually amounts

to allowing them to hold other competitors in the field

for a ransom. It was held that the petitioners who are

yet to identify any specific area cannot completely

block out the entire extent of the earmarked land that

admeasures thousands of acres. 12. During the course of the arguments, this

Court had called upon the learned Additional Advocate

General and the learned counsel for KREDL to furnish

certain factual information pertaining to the 1st

petitioner, since M/s.Vish Wind claimed to have

proceeded diligently to identify the most suited patch

of lands to establish the Wind turbines, lay the

gridlines and commence the process of electricity

generation. On factual verification, learned counsel

for KREDL has informed this Court that other than 1st

petitioner, only one another allottee had sought for

extension of time to fulfill the time lines. It was

submitted that the onset of COVID-19 and the

inconvenience suffered by the citizens of this country

on account of the travel restrictions and lockdown

imposed by the Government KREDL did not in any

manner put any undue pressure on the allottees, since

sufficient time was available to the allottees to meet -26- the timeline and no such request for extension of time

came from the majority of the allottees, except the 1st

petitioner and one another allottee. 13. The counter contention of the respondent

State and KREDL against the 1st petitioner is that the

said allottee is not in a position to establish the

project and generate electricity and on the other hand

it is trying to take advantage of the vast extent of

land allocated and is seeking to transfer its rights and

enrich itself at the cost of the State. It is submitted

that KREDL has given due consideration to the Official

Memoranda issued by the Government of India during

the COVID-19 period and the lockdown ordered by the

State Government in two blocks, the first one for a

period of five months and the second for a period of

two and a half months. However, the 1st petitioner

has done nothing worthwhile in the matter of

generating electricity and serve the purpose for which -27- the contract was awarded to it. On the other hand,

the 1st petitioner sought for transfer of 1.6 MW on

13.03.2021 and again sought transfer of 2.1 MW on

27.02.2023 in favour of petitioner No.2 herein. No

sooner the transfer was permitted on the first

occasion, the transferee sought for enhancement from

1.6 MW to 100 MW. In the case of the 2nd petitioner

herein, it was pointed out that along with the transfer

application, it has sought enhancement from 2.1 MW

to 96.6 MW and 98.7 MW. 14. Learned Additional Advocate General

submitted that even prior to the co-ordinate bench of

this court passing orders in the case of SRK Energy

(supra), the State Government had contemplated

revision of the RE policy, having regard to several

deficiencies found in the earlier policy, including the

fact that there was no need to earmark vast extents of

lands to the allottees, since the experts had opined -28- that it was sufficient to allocate 4 acres of land for

erecting each WTG. The learned AAG submitted that

such observations have been made by the Co-ordinate

bench in the case of SRK Energy (supra) doubting the

need for allocation of such vast acres of land,

indiscriminately. However, orders were passed by the

co-ordinate bench on 21.09.2022, while the new RE

policy 2022-2027 was notified on 30.04.2022. As

opined by the experts, in the new RE policy, care was

taken to ensure that along with the application the

project proponent shall give details of each WTG

coordinates along with the survey number of the land

required for implementation of the project. The

learned AAG submitted that the new RE policy was

formulated having regard to the deficiencies found in

the old policy and the new RE policy is made

applicable to all the allottees in whose favour GOs

were issued earlier in terms of the old policy and there -29- is no intention of the State or KREDL to prejudice a

particular allottee. It is submitted that there has been

no grievance aired at the hands of the any other

allottee with regard to implementation of the new RE

policy. 15. It is the contention of the learned Senior

Counsel for the contesting respondents that the

second petitioner-M/s Vaayu Renewable Energy (Mevasa)

Private Limited has no locus standi to file the writ petition,

since the application filed by the 1st petitioner seeking

transfer of a portion of its rights in favour of the second

petitioner has been rejected at the hands of the

respondent-KREDL. It is submitted that the 1st petitioner

does not have the wherewithal to generate renewable

energy, which fact is evident as it has not been able to do

any visible progress, but it has been treating the contract /

allotment as a real estate business. It is submitted that

the 1st petitioner has transferred a portion of its rights in

the month of March 2021 following which, the transferee -30- sought for enhancement from 1.6 MW to 100 MW. It is

obvious that the 1st petitioner has no qualms in giving up

portions of land earmarked for it, in favour of its

transferee. On the other hand, it seeks to raise objections

if a portion of the lands are allocated to any other entity.

Learned Senior Counsel submits that the 1st petitioner has

fallen in line accepting the provisions of the new RE policy

2022-2027 in respect of the other portion of the project in

Gadag District. The learned Senior Counsel would therefore

submit that the 1st petitioner should not be permitted to

blow hot and cold in accepting the new RE policy in one

part of the contract and opposing it in the other part. 16. The learned Senior Counsel would further

submit that although transfer was sought by the 1st

petitioner in favor of the 2nd petitioner, but no Government

Order is issued in favour of the 2nd petitioner,

nevertheless, a condition has been imposed in the

Government Order issued in favor of the contesting

respondents depriving it the freedom to procure the -31- land for the combined 300 MW projects, thus

defeating the very purpose of the Government Order.

It is submitted that the 1st petitioner has not been

able to furnish any material regarding the extent of

lands within the earmarked area procured either by

way of sale or by agreement, which is the basic need

for commencing the project. Most importantly, it is

submitted that even in terms of the amended timeline

as provided in Clause 9(v), the first stage

commencing from zero date (date of allotment), 24

months are provided as stage-I for data collection and

submitting the DPR and seeking enhancement, if any.

It is therefore submitted that the application for

transfer and enhancement coming on 27.02.2023, is

beyond the period of 24 months and therefore, the

application for transfer made by the petitioners is

rightly rejected. The learned Senior Counsel would

therefore submit that having regard to the admitted -32- position that the period provided in the timeline, even

as per the old RE policy for seeking enhancement

having lapsed after 24 months, the respondent KREDL

could not have imposed a condition as is done at

Clause (7) of its Government Order, depriving the

contesting respondents, the liberty to procure lands in

the earmarked area. 17. Insofar as, the contention of the learned

Senior Counsel appearing for the 1st petitioner that

since the interim orders of this Court were violated

and a Government Order was issued in favour of the

contesting respondents, is concerned, the AAG,

learned Counsel for KREDL and learned Senior

Counsel appearing for the contesting respondents

have submitted that there is no violation of the court

order. It is submitted that M/s. FP Sun Spark/ FPEL

Trizoners filed an application on 10.01.2023 seeking

grant of project and approval of Government Order. -33- The application was processed and KREDL placed the

application before the State Level Allotment

Committee and approval was granted by the

Committee and its recommendation was placed before

the State Government much before any interim orders

were passed by this Court. It is submitted that in

terms of the recommendation made by the Allotment

Committee, formally the Government Order was

issued on 24.03.2023 and it would be inacceptable to

contend that the Government Order was passed in

violation of the interim orders passed by this Court. 18. Heard the learned Senior Counsel

Sri.S.S.Naganand for the petitioners, learned Addl.

Advocate General Sri.Ruben Jacob for the respondent-

State, learned Counsel Sri.Prashanth Kumar for

KREDL and learned Senior Counsel Sri.Gurudas S

Kannur, for the contesting respondents, and perused

the petition papers. 19. At the outset, what comes to the mind of

this Court, having regard to the flawed policy of the

State, is the emphasis laid by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the matter of public policies regarding the

distribution of State largesse in the case of Akhil

Bharatiya Upbhokta Congress Vs. State of M.P. ,

(2011) 5 SCC 29, wherein it was held that State and

its instrumentalities cannot give largesse to any

person according to the sweet will and whims of the

political entity and/or officers of the State. Every

action/decision of the State and/or its agencies/

instrumentalities to give largesse or confirm benefit

must be founded on a sound, transparent, discernible,

and well-defined policy, which shall be made known to

the public by publication in the official gazette and

such policy must be implemented by adopting a non-

discriminatory and non-arbitrary method. As brought

to the notice of this Court, earlier too a co-ordinate -35- Bench of this Court had an occasion to deal with a

similar situation where vast extent of land of 6500

acres were earmarked for a project proponent in

terms of the RE policy 2009-2014 and when a small

extent of land measuring about 66 acres were sought

to be divested, such project proponent sought to

challenge the same before this Court. The co-ordinate

Bench expressed its anguish that even when the

earmarked area were not utilized by the project

proponent, it sought to raise a hue and cry on

divestment of 1% of such lands. It was also observed

that the Court is not sure if the petitioners were

justified in securing an absolute interim order of stay

at the hands of this Court. The co-ordinate Bench

held that the petitioners prayer for issuance a writ of

mandamus has been structured on the basis of a

Government Order which by itself does not create any

choate interest in any particular piece of land. -36- Petitioners who were yet to indentify any specific area

cannot completely block out the entire extent of

earmarked land that admeasures thousands of acres.

It was therefore directed that it is high time that the

Government and KREDL ponder over such problems

and take appropriate measures so that huge projects

of the kind are not imperiled by avoidable litigations

as the ones on hand. Otherwise, what would be at

stake is, nothing but the public interest. 20. In the considered opinion of this Court, so

much has been said by the co-ordinate Bench in its

order dated 21.09.2022 and the all important mischief

found in the old RE policy 2009-2014 has not been

addressed by the Government in the new policy.

Admittedly, the State Government intended to

establish a dynamic renewable sector with emphasis

on different forms of generation- wind, mini-hydro,

biomass, cogeneration and solar energy. It was felt -37- that there is a need to have a clear policy frame work

to provide and sustain efforts in that directions. It

was therefore felt that there is a need for a new

renewable energy policy in the State. It was found

that there is a need to encourage private

entrepreneurs to identify and develop small capacity

projects in wind, mini-hydro, biomass, cogeneration

and solar energy. Emphasis was laid on generating

green energy, reduce harmful effects of global

warming and ozone layer depletion. Some key

measures were proposed to address the constraints

faced by persons and entities which had the

wherewithal to generate such green energy but faced

difficulty in the matter of purchasing lands and

obtaining permission from the Deputy Commissioner

of the Districts or other modes of purchase. Having

these things in mind, the RE policy was formulated. It

was noticed by the co-ordinate Bench that the policy -38- sought to earmark vast extents of land to a particular

allottee. It is noticeable that even in terms of the

policy, what was sought to be earmarked were private

patta lands and unidentified public lands. Therefore,

the project proponents knew that no discrete right

would vest in the allottee, even if such lands were

earmarked for their benefit. The requirement of the

policy was that after the Government Order was

issued, the allottee was required to procure the

requisite lands either by way of absolute purchase or

on lease. Nevertheless, the allottees have sought to

take advantage of the earmarking of such vast lands

and raised objections when a small portion of such

lands were sought to be allotted to another entity. 21. In the statement of objections filed at the

hands of the respondent-State and KREDL it has been

stated that the allottees have sought to create a

monopoly over the geographical area, to the -39- determent of the State. It has been contended that

the policy did not in any manner stipulate that the

geographically area was allotted exclusively in favour

of any party. The idea was to create conditions

condusive to private/ public/ community participation

and investment in renewable energy power projects.

It is contended that if an area is reserved solely for a

specific developer then, the said objective of the

policy would stand defeated, as it takes away the right

of other developer from developing the project in the

same area, which is not the purport of the policy. It

has also been contended that the allottee may not

have the capacity to install the project in the

geographical location and may only partially install the

capacity. Under such circumstances, no allottee can

claim exclusivity over the earmarked area. 22. Having said all this, this Court fails to

understand as to why the policy provided for transfer -40- of rights. During the course of the proceedings, this

court had called upon the learned AAG as well as the

learned Counsel for the KREDL to point out from the

policy document as to whether there is a provision

made for the applicant who was granted the

Government Order to transfer its rights in favour of

another entity. It was also required to point out that

if there is no such express provision, then why the

application for transfer of rights were being

entertained. In compliance of the same, the

respondent-KREDL had filed a memo dated

16.01.2024 only pointing out that in Clause 25 of the

RE policy 2009-2014 the State Government had

reserved its authority to issue connected Government

Order and Government Order for transfer of capacity.

This court fails to understand as to why such transfers

were permitted, which would become a tool in the

hands of such allottees who didn't have the -41- wherewithal to implement the project. If the intention

of the State was to allot such projects to entities

which had the capacity and wherewithal to implement

the projects, then where was the need to allow

transfer of the rights? Only such allottees who were

not in a position to implement the project would seek

transfer of their rights, and at a premium of course. 23. Having regard to the earlier experiences

where an allottee was granted Government Order, say

to an extent of 16 MW, it would seek transfer of 1 or 2

MW to another entity. As soon as such transfer is

permitted, the transferee would immediately seek

enhancement for about 100 MW. As noticed

hereinabove, the original allottee is more than willing

to share the earmarked land with such transferee, but

it would raise objections if similar lands are to be

allotted to any other entity. Nevertheless, this Court

is of the considered opinion that the new RE policy -42- 2022-2027 failed to address the mischief area. The

new RE policy should have done away with the

provision for transfer. The State should have retained

the power to allot the rights instead of allowing the

allottees to seek transfer of such rights. This is the

reason why this Court is constrained to hold that the

RE policy of the State is flawed. 24. Insofar as the contention of the learned

Senior Counsel for the petitioners regarding the

promissory estoppel, this court should point out from

the decision cited by the learned Senior Counsel in the

case of Transmission Corporation of Andhra

Pradesh Ltd., and another Vs. Sai Renewable

Power Pvt. Ltd., and Others (2011) 11 SCC 34,

where it was held that the doctrine of promissory

estoppel is not really based on principle of estoppels,

but is a doctrine evolved by equity in order to prevent

injustice. There is no reason why it should be given -43- only a limited application. It was held that even if it is

assumed that there was a kind of unequivocal promise

or representation given by the respondents, the

review therein took place only after the period

specified under the guidelines. In the present case

too, since the application for transfer and subsequent

enhancement at the hands of the petitioners came

long after the stipulated period, the application is

rightly to be rejected. This Court does not see any

injustice being done to the petitioners. 25. Further, having regard to the decision

rendered by the co-ordinate bench in the case of SRK

Energy (supra), this Court is of the considered

opinion that since the first petitioner filed an

application after lapse of 24 months in terms of the

time line stipulated in the old RE policy 2009-2014

and the corrigendum dated 18.07.2011 and with the

lenience shown, having regard to the OMs issued by -44- the Government of India on account of COVID 19, and

since the first petitioner allottee failed to submit the

DPR and seek enhancement within the stipulated time,

the petitioners are not entitled for the relief sought in

their petitions. This Court is also of the considered

opinion that the issuance of Government Orders in

favor of the first petitioner did not give it any

monopolistic rights over the earmarked area. It is

given to understand that the area earmarked to the

1st petitioner for 8MW is around 64,000 acres and in

terms of the New RE Policy 2022-27, at the rate of 4

acres per WTG, only a few hundred acres may be

allotted to the 1st petitioner. Similarly, if about 300

MW is the capacity allotted to the contesting

respondents, they may identify about 1200 acres of

land. It still leaves more than 55,000 to 60,000 acres

to the 1st petitioner, depending on how much of it has

been shared with its own transferees. It is also -45- doubtful as to whether the 1st petitioner has procured

even a few hundred acres till date. In that view of the

matter, the issuance of Government Order in favour of

the contesting respondents cannot be faulted.

However, stipulation of condition No.7 in the

Government Order issued in favour of the contesting

respondents-M/s. FP Sun Spark/FPEL Trizoners cannot

be sustained. 26. Consequently, this Court proceeds to pass

the following: Ordered accordingly. Pending I.As., if any, stand disposed off. Sd/- JUDGE

DL/KLY
CT: JL