Madan B. Lokur, J 1. Rapacious and rampant exploitation of our natural resources is the

 hallmark of our iron ore mining sector - coupled with a total lack of concern

 for the environment and the health and well-being of the denizens in the

 vicinity of the mines. The sole motive of mining lease holders seems to be Signature Not Verified to make profits (no matter how) and the attitude seems to be that if the rule Digitally signed by SANJAY KUMAR Date: 2018.02.07 10:59:26 IST Reason: of law is required to be put on the backburner, so be it. Unfortunately, the S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 1 of 101 State is unable to firmly stop violations of the law and other illegalities,

 perhaps with a view to maximize revenue, but without appreciating the long

 term impact of this indifference. Another excuse generally put forth by the

 State is that of development, conveniently forgetting that development must

 be sustainable and equitable development and not otherwise. 2. Effective implementation and in some instances circumvention of the

 mining and environment related laws is a tragedy in itself. Laxity and sheer

 apathy to the rule of law gives mining lease holders a field day, being the

 primary beneficiaries, with the State being left with some crumbs in the form

 of royalty. For the State to generate adequate revenue through the mining

 sector and yet have sustainable and equitable development, the

 implementation machinery needs a tremendous amount of strengthening

 while the law enforcement machinery needs strict vigilance. Unless the two

 marry, we will continue to be mute witnesses to the plunder of our natural

 resources and left wondering how to retrieve an irretrievable situation. 3. The Government of India appears to have received information of

 large-scale illegal mining of iron ore and manganese ore in different States

 in contravention of the provisions of the Mines and Minerals (Development

 and Regulation) Act, 1957 (the MMDR Act ), the Forest (Conservation) Act,

 1980 , the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and other rules and guidelines S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 2 of 101 issued on the subject from time to time. 4. Acting on this information, the Government of India appointed Justice

 M.B. Shah a former judge of this Court as a commission of inquiry under Section 3 of the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 by a notification dated

 22nd November, 2010. The terms of reference of the Commission for the

 State of Goa were as follows: 3. The Commission shall also recommend remedial measures to
 prevent such mining, trade, transportation and export done illegally
 or without lawful authority.” 5. Justice Shah visited Goa and after calling for and receiving

 information from the concerned authorities as well as the mining lease

 holders, he submitted a report on 15th March, 2012 and another on 25th April,

 2012 to the Ministry of Mines in the Government of India. The reports were

 tabled in Parliament on 7th September, 2012 along with an Action Taken

 Report and as a result, the Government of Goa passed an order dated 10th

 September, 2012 suspending all mining operations in the State with effect

 from 11th September, 2012. The Ministry of Environment and Forests

 (MoEF) of the Government of India acted similarly and kept in abeyance the

 environmental clearances granted to 139 mines (actually 137 mines – there

 is some duplication) in the State of Goa by an order dated 14th September,

 2012. 6. Subsequent to the reports given by Justice Shah, a writ petition was

 filed by Goa Foundation in this Court being WP (C) No. 435 of 2012. The

 writ petition was a public interest litigation praying, inter alia, for directions

 to the Union of India and the State of Goa to take steps to terminate the

 mining leases where mining was carried out in violation of various statutes. S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 4 of 101 7. Similarly, several mining lease holders preferred writ petitions in the

 Bombay High Court for a declaration that the reports given by Justice Shah

 are illegal and also for quashing the orders dated 10th September, 2012 and

 14th September, 2012 whereby mining operations were suspended and

 environmental clearances were kept in abeyance. The writ petitions filed in

 the High Court were transferred to this Court for hearing along with WP (C)

 No. 435 of 2012. 8. This Court heard all these matters and rendered its decision in Goa

 Foundation v. Union of India on 21st April 2014.1 Among other

 conclusions arrived at, it was held by the Court that all the iron ore and

 manganese ore leases had expired on 22nd November, 2007. Consequently,

 any mining operation carried out by the mining lease holders after that date

 was illegal. It was also held that all the mining lease holders had enjoyed a

 first deemed renewal of the mining lease and for a second renewal an

 express order was required to be passed in view of and in terms of Section

 8(3) of the MMDR Act. For a second renewal of the mining lease, it was

 held that the State Government must apply its mind and record reasons for

 renewal being in the interest of mineral development and the necessity to 1 (2014) 6 SCC 590 S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 5 of 101 renew the mining lease. Any decision taken by the State Government should

 also be in conformity with the constitutional provisions. The decision taken

 by the State of Goa to grant a mining lease in a particular manner or to a

 particular party could be examined by way of judicial review. It was also

 held that the orders dated 10th September, 2012 and 14th September, 2012 are

 not liable to be quashed and that they would continue till decisions are taken

 to grant fresh leases and fresh environmental clearances for mining projects.

 Goa Mineral Policy 2013 9. During the pendency of the proceedings before the Court, the State of

 Goa announced the draft Goa Mineral Policy on 21st August, 2012. After

 suggestions etc. were received, the Mineral Policy was finalized and

 gazetted on 28th September, 2013. 10. A few salient features of the Mineral Policy may be mentioned. It is

 stated in the Preamble to the Mineral Policy: “The Goan economy is heavily

 dependent on the iron ore industry insofar as the major share of the regional

 income from the mineral industry and its allied activities like transport and

 trade is concerned.”

 “However, during the period from 2006-07 to 2011-12, due to huge
 spurt in demand of low grade ore in international market followed by
 illegalities and irregularities in the previous regulatory regime, the
 State has witnessed the peak of chaotic and unregulated mining
 without any concern for fragile ecology and environment of the State S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 6 of 101 or for the general well being of an average Goan. It has resulted in
 massive export of unaccounted ore from unidentified sources like
 dumps and tailings. The reckless exploitation without any concern
 for sustainability that the State has witnessed in last five years has
 serious implications. Minerals are a finite and non-renewable natural
 resource and must be exploited wisely in the larger interest of the
 State. It is high time that the new Government that has received an
 unprecedented mandate from the people of Goa should take note that
 dependence on mining presents extreme externalities and the State
 has to tread cautiously promoting a sustainable extraction
 regime to facilitate systematic, scientific and planned utilization
 of mineral resources and to streamline mineral based development
 of the State, keeping in view, protection of environment, health and
 safety of the people in and around the mining areas rather than race
 to bottom.” [Emphasis supplied by us]. 11. Notwithstanding this serious indictment of the pre-existing „policy‟

 for mining natural resources in Goa, the Mineral Policy did not address itself

 to the allocation or distribution of the natural resources in any of its 20

 paragraphs and many sub-paragraphs. The topics dealt with in the Mineral

 Policy include objectives and parameters, sustainable mining and mineral

 conservation, mineral administration, regulation of mines and minerals,

 pollution and its social impact, and policy highlights. Some of the other

 topics dealt with in the Mineral Policy include capping, based on carrying

 capacity of public roads and to protect inter-generational equity, mines

 safety and rehabilitation of affected people, stakeholder participation

 (including corporate social responsibility), welfare and social responsibilities S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 7 of 101 and establishment of the Goa Minerals Development Fund etc. 12. However, what is of some significance is that paragraphs 1.4.4 and

 1.4.5 of the Mineral Policy state that Goan iron ore is low grade, that is

 having low iron (or Fe) content and that its extraction provides no or

 minimal domestic value addition. Almost all the iron ore extracted in Goa is

 exported and we were informed that only one mining lease holder captively

 consumes Goan extracted iron ore. Paragraphs 1.4.4 and 1.4.5 of the Mineral

 Policy read as follows: Vishwanath Anand Expert Appraisal Committee 14. During the pendency of the writ petition in the Court, the MoEF

 constituted an Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) on 21st March, 2013

 with Shri Vishwanath Anand, former Secretary in the MoEF as the

 Chairman to specifically look into issues related to illegal mining in the

 State of Goa. The terms of reference of the EAC were as follows: case recommendations to the MoEF;2 (b) To evaluate status of compliance with respect to conditions
 stipulated as part of environment clearance; (c) xxx xxx xxx (d) To examine the observations relating to MoEF in Justice Shah
 Commission report on illegal mining of iron and manganese ore in
 the State of Goa and make appropriate recommendations. 15. The EAC gave its report sometime in October 2013 with regard to 137

 mining leases. Very briefly, the EAC found many of the mining lease

 holders had: (i) No approval from the National Board of Wildlife; or (ii)

 Indulged in excess mining; or (iii) Indulged in dump mining; or (iv)

 Intersected groundwater level; or (v) No clearance from the Central Ground 2 Actually 137 project proponents – there is some duplication S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 9 of 101 Water Board to draw ground water; or (vi) No forest clearance. We may

 also note that the EAC also recommended the revocation of environmental

 clearance granted to several mining lease holders for a variety of reasons. 16. The Mineral Policy and the report of the EAC were perhaps placed

 before the Court in the writ petition filed by Goa Foundation and the

 transferred cases, but not dealt with, except for a brief mention of the

 Mineral Policy. 17. All the cases before the Court were heard quite extensively in

 September, October and November 2013. Judgment was reserved on 11 th

 November, 2013 and pronounced on 21st April, 2014. Some of the

 conclusions arrived at by the Court relevant for our discussions have already

 been mentioned above. 18. At this stage, it may be mentioned that on 11th November, 2013 read

 with an order dated 18th November, 20133 this Court constituted an Expert

 Committee “to conduct a macro EIA study on what should be the ceiling of

 annual excavation of iron ore from the State of Goa considering its iron ore

 resources and its carrying capacity keeping in mind the principles of

 sustainable development and intergenerational equity and all other relevant

 factors.” The members of the Expert Committee were: 3 19. The Expert Committee submitted an Interim Report dated 14th March,

 2014 to the Court after considering reports prepared by the Tata Energy

 Research Institute (TERI), New Delhi (1997); TERI and International

 Development Research Centre, Ottawa, Canada (2006); MoEF (2014);

 research papers prepared by the Goa University and the National Institute of

 Oceanography; Indian Institute of Technology (Indian School of Mines),

 Dhanbad (2013); Pollution Control Board, Goa (Annual Report) and other

 literature. It noted large-scale degradation of the environment in Goa due to

 mining operations. A Final Report was also submitted by the Expert

 Committee to the Court on or about 12th April, 2015 - it was obviously not

 available to the Court. Other proceedings in the High Court 20. Quite independent of the cases pending in this Court, writ petitions

 were filed by several mining lease holders in the Bombay High Court

 praying either for consideration of their application for a second renewal of S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 11 of 101 the mining lease or for the grant of a mining lease on second renewal. The

 High Court heard those writ petitions and delivered its judgment on 13th

 August, 2014.4 In the course of its judgment, the High Court referred to the

 Mineral Policy and observed: All the petitioners initially sought directions to the State Government
 to decide their applications for renewal filed in the year 2007.
 However, the petitions which fell in the first two categories were
 subsequently amended and directions were sought against the
 Government to execute second renewal lease deeds.” 21. In its decision, the High Court held: (i) The decision of this Court [in

 Goa Foundation] is not an impediment on the State of Goa in considering

 the applications filed by the petitioners before the High Court for a second

 renewal of the mining lease. On the contrary, the decision casts an obligation 4 Lithoferro v. State of Goa, MANU/MH/1292/2014 = 2014 SCC OnLIne Bom 997 S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 12 of 101 on the Government of Goa to consider all the applications for renewal under Section 8(3) of the MMDR Act; (ii) Consideration of the applications should

 be in accordance with the Mineral Policy, the provisions of the MMDR Act and the Rules made thereunder and in accordance with constitutional

 provisions; (iii) The expression „fresh leases‟ occurring in paragraph 67 (82)

 of the decision of this Court [in Goa Foundation] is an affirmation of the

 law that the renewal of a lease is also a fresh grant. For arriving at this

 conclusion, the High Court placed reliance on State of M.P. v. Krishnadas

 Tikaram.5

 The High Court finally held: 22. In view of the above conclusions, the High Court passed the following

 orders: 23. Two petitions for special leave have been filed directed against the

 judgment and order passed by the High Court on 13th August, 2014 being

 SLP (C) No. 32138 of 2015 and SLP (C) Nos. 32699-32727 of 2015 and

 these are also before us. Goa Grant of Mining Leases Policy 2014 24. Keeping in mind the orders and directions passed by this Court and

 the High Court, the State of Goa formulated the Goa Grant of Mining Leases S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 14 of 101 Policy 2014. We were informed by the learned Additional Solicitor General

 that the Grant of Mining Leases Policy was approved by the Council of

 Ministers of the Goa State Cabinet on 1st October, 2014. It was issued on 4th

 November, 2014 and placed on the website of the Directorate of Mines and

 Geology of the Government of Goa on the same day. However, it was

 gazetted on 20th January, 2015 with two paragraphs deleted from the

 document issued on 4th November, 2014. The two deleted paragraphs are

 indicated below. 25. The Grant of Mining Leases Policy makes for some very important

 and interesting reading and includes an impassioned plea for rejecting the

 process of competitive bidding of mining leases for the time being. It also

 contains the statement made by the Chief Minister on the floor of the Goa

 State Legislative Assembly. While the Grant of Mining Leases Policy is a

 large document, it is necessary to read relevant extracts from it since it

 indicates the factors that went into taking the policy decision and also to

 appreciate if there was any violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. The

 relevant extracts read as under: Each of the aforesaid modes has its own merits and de-merits….

 While the State Government was in the process of deliberating on all
 these issues at various levels, the judgment and order of the Hon‟ble
 High Court in Writ Petition filed by certain lease holders came to be S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 16 of 101 delivered on 13th August, 2014 whereby the Hon‟ble High Court has
 directed the execution of the Lease Deeds under Section 8(3) of the
 MMRD Act in favour of the lease holders who have already paid the
 stamp duty pursuant to Orders of the State Government in
 accordance with the Goa Mineral Policy, 2013, placed before the
 Hon‟ble Supreme Court and subject to the conditions…..

 This judgment and order of the Hon’ble High Court virtually
 leaves no choice to the State Government, thereby to completely
 abandon the process of competitive bedding [bidding] for
 earning the best revenue to the State Government. While this
 was the position taken by the State Government in the Goa
 Mineral Policy, 2013, and the Hon‟ble High Court has interpreted
 the Order of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Writ Petition (Civil)
 No.435/2012, the State Government in view of Hon’ble High
 Court order, has for the present ruled out the process of going
 for competitive bidding. The State Government is considering
 actively, within its Constitutional powers and functions, to come out
 with regulatory and controlling measures and levy and collect
 appropriate returns having regard to the fact that the soil comprising
 the land belongs to the State…. The State Government has also
 commenced the inquiry and investigation into the violations of
 matters under Rule 37 and 38 of the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960
 as directed by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court…. As is seen from the aforesaid, the Judgment and order of the Hon‟ble
 High Court is an intervening circumstance inasmuch as it directs the
 execution of Lease Deeds in 28 cases and consideration of the
 Application under Section 8(3) by the State Government in the other
 cases…. In the considered Opinion of the State Government, it would be
 futile to challenge the Judgment of the Hon‟ble High Court before
 the Hon‟ble Apex Court as that would once again delay the
 commencement of the Mining Operations. As a matter of fact, a
 substantial portion of the State‟s Revenue comes from the Mining
 Sector. The State has been virtually starved of funds for undertaking
 many activities including Infra-structural Projects; and on account of
 the stopping of the Mining Operation, the State had to walk a tight-
 rope as there has been no Revenue coming from one of the major
 source of Revenue…. S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 17 of 101 Having regard to the aforesaid, the State Government thought it
 proper to act in accordance with the Directions of the Hon‟ble
 Supreme Court by balancing the equities, needs; as also to sub-serve
 the Public Interest and by having sustainable development by
 protecting the Ecological and all other factors. Policy Framework.–– The State Government has been considering
 and deliberating the entire matter, and thought it proper having
 regard to the facts that: The State Government after having considered the matter from every
 possible angle, has decided to exercise its Power under Section 8(3)
 of the Mines and Mineral Regulations and Development Act, 1957,
 and to consider each of the cases on their own merits and subject
 to compliance with the Conditions which may be laid down by the
 State Government including for strict Pollution Control measures,
 and thereafter take a decision on the renewal in terms of Section 8(3) of the MMRD Act, 1957, complying fully with the Procedure laid
 down therein. S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 18 of 101 Though the State Government has in principle decided to follow the
 route of the renewal of Lease under Section 8(3) of the MMRD Act,
 it shall be subject to the following:- 26. Around this time, and pursuant to the Budget Speech given by the

 Hon‟ble Minister of Finance of the Government of India on 10th July, 2014 it

 appears that steps were being taken by the concerned Ministry in the

 Government of India to amend the MMDR Act .7 In fact a draft Mines and

 Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 2014 was prepared on or about

 16th November, 2014 and uploaded on the website of the Ministry of Mines

 on 17th November, 2014. This information was placed before us from the

 response given by the Hon‟ble Minister of Mines to Unstarred Question No.

 2485 to be answered in the Lok Sabha on 8th December, 2014. The question

 was: http://www.goadmg.gov.in/Uploads/288.pdf 7 122. “It is my Government’s intention to encourage investment in mining sector and promote sustainable mining
practices to adequately meet the requirements of industry without sacrificing environmental concerns. The
current impasse in mining sector, including, iron ore mining, will be resolved expeditiously. Changes, if necessary,
in the MMDR Act, 1957 would be introduced to facilitate this.” *Emphasis supplied by us+. S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 20 of 101 And the answer was: The last date for receipt of the comments/suggestions is 10th
 December 2014. Based on the comments/suggestions received the
 draft Bill will be finalized and taken forward for introduction in the
 Parliament. The Bill is designed to put in place mechanisms for: (i) Improved
 transparency in the allocation of mineral resources; (ii) Obtaining for
 the government its fair share of the value of such resources; (iii)
 Attracting private investment and the latest technology; and (iv)
 Eliminating delay in administration, so as to enable expeditious and
 optimum development of the mineral resources of the country. 27. What was the nature of the proposed amendments? As far as we are

 concerned, the introduction of Section 10B in the MMDR Act (relating to

 competitive bidding) is significant and this reads: 28. Immediately after 4th November, 2014 (the date on which the Grant of

 Mining Leases Policy was uploaded on the website of the Government of

 Goa) the State Government commenced granting a second renewal of the

 mining leases from 5th November, 2014 onwards and that process was

 completed on 12th January, 2015. The following table gives the dates of

 second renewal of 88 mining leases granted by the State Government on or

 before 12th January, 2015: 29. The date of 12th January, 2015 is significant since on that date the

 President promulgated the Mines and Minerals (Development and

 Regulation) Amendment Ordinance, 2015 (which was later enacted by

 Parliament) whereby the grant of mining leases for notified minerals was

 through competitive bidding or the auction process. It is important to

 mention here that the approval of the Ordinance by the Cabinet of the

 Government of India became public knowledge on 5th January, 20158 and it

 is within a week from that date that the Government of Goa granted a second

 renewal to 25 mining leases and to make matters worse, a second renewal

 was granted to 31 mining leases on 12th January, 2015 the day the Ordinance

 came into force making a total of 56 renewals of mining leases.

 Environmental clearance and orders dated 20th March, 2015 30. Following the renewal of 88 mining leases, the State of Goa requested

 the MoEF by letters dated 7th January, 2015 and 5th February, 2015 to lift the

 abeyance order of 14th September, 2012 on the environmental clearances.

 Consequently, the MoEF passed three orders on 20th March, 2015 (the actual

 sequence of the orders is not very clear). http://www.businesstoday.in/current/economy-politics/narendra-modi-cabinet-approves-ordinance-for-mines-
auction/story/214253.html
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/Cabinet-approves-ordinance-for-mines-
auction/articleshow/45765290.cms
http://www.financialexpress.com/economy/reforms-cabinet-approves-ordinance-for-mines-auction/26342/
http://www.livemint.com/Politics/VDXphnUmPYGbN4lmzEBslK/Govt-passes-executive-order-to-auction-
minerals.html S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 23 of 101 31. The first order of 20th March, 2015 was in the form of a letter

 addressed to the Principal Secretary, Environment, Government of Goa and

 it recorded that MoEF had considered all the 139 cases in which the

 abeyance order has been passed and had taken into account the request of the

 State Government, the recommendation of the EAC and the directions of

 this Court. It was noted that the EAC had observed that there were

 violations of the following nature: (i) No clearance from the National Board

 of Wildlife and non-compliance of orders of this Court on the subject; (ii)

 Excess production; (iii) Dump mining; (iv) Intersecting ground water table

 and drawal of ground water without permission of the Central Ground Water

 Board; (v) No forest clearance obtained where required; (vi) Encroachment

 and false information/concealment of fact. It was stated that the MoEF had

 decided to refer the cases to the appropriate authorities (including the State

 Government) for taking action on the violations. Accordingly, a request was

 made to examine the report of the EAC and take appropriate action against

 the concerned lessees. 32. The second order passed on 20th March, 2015 was an Office

 Memorandum to the effect that if a project proponent has a valid and

 subsisting environmental clearance for a mining project under the

 Environment Impact Assessment Notification of 27th January, 1994 (EIA S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 24 of 101 1994) or Environment Impact Assessment Notification of 14th September,

 2006 (EIA 2006), it will not be required to obtain a fresh environmental

 clearance at the time of renewal of the mining lease. This was subject to the

 maximum period of validity of 30 years for the environmental clearance for

 a mining lease. 33. The third order passed on 20th March, 2015 related to lifting the

 abeyance order dated 14th September, 2012 on the environmental clearance

 of the mining leases for iron ore and manganese ore. The cases of all 139

 mining leases in which the abeyance order was passed were considered and

 the abeyance order lifted in respect of 72 cases. The details in this regard

 are given in the table below: Abeyance order lifted on 20th March, 2015 for 72 mines out of 139 34. The third order of 20th March, 2015 also placed certain additional

 specific conditions while lifting the abeyance order. These additional

 conditions were: Questions for consideration 35. Broadly speaking, on the basis of the submissions and documents

 placed before us, the questions raised by the Goa Foundation, the State of

 Goa, the Union of India and the mining lease holders are three-fold: Whether fresh mining leases were required to be granted? 36. The controversy in this regard has arisen in view of what is stated in

 paragraph 82 of the decision in Goa Foundation. It was stated as follows: S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 27 of 101 37. The issue that arose for discussion before us was the meaning and

 intention of the Court in the context of grant of „fresh leases‟ for mining

 projects. Did the Court literally mean that a fresh mining lease was required

 to be granted or was a second renewal sufficient compliance? 38. As the above quoted paragraph indicates, the Court was aware and

 conscious of the fact that the mining leases had expired on 22nd November,

 2007 and the mining operations thereafter carried out by the mining lease

 holders was illegal. For this reason, the Court held that the suspension order

 passed by the State of Goa on 10th September, 2012 and the abeyance order

 passed by the MoEF on 14th September, 2012 did not require any

 interference. S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 28 of 101 39. Since the mining operations carried out after 22nd November, 2007

 were illegal, the Court, in subsequent paragraphs of the judgment noted (as a

 follow up) that an order was passed on 5th October, 2012 suspending

 transportation of iron ore and manganese ore from those leases identified by

 the Justice Shah Commission.9 Thereafter on 11th November, 2013 it was

 directed that an inventory be made of the excavated mineral ores and the

 inventoried mineral ores be sold by e-auction under the supervision of a

 Monitoring Committee.10 40. Further, it was held by the Court on 21st April, 2014 that from the e-

 auction sale of the mineral ores, the mining lease holders would be entitled

 to the average cost (not the actual cost) of extraction, the workers would be

 entitled to 50% wages and allowances on the principle of laid-off

 compensation and the Marmagao Port Trust would be entitled to 50% of the

 storage charges. Out of the balance amount, 10% would be appropriated to

 the Goan Iron Ore Permanent Fund for the purpose of sustainable

 development and intergenerational equity and the remaining amount would

 be appropriated by the State who is the owner of the mineral ores illegally

 excavated by the mining lease holders and sold by e-auction.

9 th
 Goa Foundation v. Union of India, WP (C) 435 of 2012 – order dated 5 October, 2012 10 Goa Foundation v. Union of India , (2014) 6 SCC 738 S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 29 of 101 With this in mind, the Court declared in paragraph 87.5 of the Report: The applicant prayed for a direction to restrain the authorities from e-

 auctioning the iron ore mined by it prior to 22nd November, 2007 and that S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 31 of 101 the mined ore should be released to the applicant with the right to dispose of

 the same. A Bench of three learned judges (other than those that decided

 Goa Foundation) noted that: “The submissions advanced on behalf of the

 applicant were premised merely on the assertion, that the mineral ore which

 the applicant was claiming a right over, had been legitimately mined before

 22.11.2007, and therefore, the applicant had an absolute and legitimate

 ownership over the same. We may note, that the above position was

 emphasized, stressed and persistently reiterated to make the stand absolutely

 crystal clear.” The learned judges considered the submissions and held by an

 order dated 14th October, 2014 that the direction in Goa Foundation was

 clear and categorical that the iron ore vested in the State Government and

 therefore the application deserved dismissal. In other words, the mining

 lease holders deserved no latitude for the illegal mining and all issues

 needed to be dealt with strictly. 45. There is additional material to support the view that the Court had

 intended the State of Goa to grant fresh mining leases rather than grant a

 second renewal. 46. From a reading of the decision rendered by the Bombay High Court in

 Lithoferro (subject matter of SLP (C) No. 32138 of 2015 and SLP (C) Nos.

 32699-32727 of 2015) it is evident that the State of Goa understood the S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 32 of 101 decision of this Court in Goa Foundation to mean that fresh mining leases

 were required to be granted on the basis of a policy yet to be framed by the

 State of Goa and the issue of second renewals did not survive consideration.

 The contention of the learned Advocate General of the State of Goa in this

 regard is recorded by the High Court in the following words: 47. While considering the submissions of the learned Advocate General

 and learned counsel, the High Court noted that this Court was alive to the S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 33 of 101 fact that the State of Goa had granted in-principle second renewal to 28

 mining leases and had collected renewal fees or stamp duty from 27 mining

 leases (presumably out of the 28 mining leases) as stated in the brief resume

 filed by the State of Goa in this Court. The High Court noted: 48. In other words, notwithstanding the in-principle grant of second

 renewal of 28 mining leases and collection of renewal fees or stamp duty,

 this Court in Goa Foundation consciously required the State of Goa to grant

 fresh leases. What is equally significant is that the State of Goa also

 understood the decision of the Court in the same manner and intended to act

 on that basis. 49. Unfortunately, the State of Goa was overtaken by events in that the

 High Court delivered its judgment in Lithoferro on 13th August, 2014 and

 while doing so, it misunderstood or incorrectly appreciated the decision of

 this Court in Goa Foundation and disagreed with the view of the State of S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 34 of 101 Goa. While this Court had required the State of Goa to grant fresh mining

 leases and the State of Goa was willing to comply with this direction, the

 High Court instead directed it to execute mining leases under Section 8(3) of

 the MMDR Act in respect of those who had paid the renewal fees or stamp

 duty. The High Court also directed the State of Goa to decide their pending

 second renewal applications within a period of three months keeping in mind

 the provisions of Section 8(3) of the MMDR Act (presumably after paying

 the renewal fees or stamp duty in terms of the Government order of 21 st

 February, 2013). The understanding by the High Court of the decision of

 this Court in Goa Foundation is totally incorrect. 50. It appears from the contents of the Grant of Mining Leases Policy that

 in view of the decision of this Court in Goa Foundation the State was

 actively considering a policy for granting fresh mining leases by considering

 several factors. However, the decision and directions of the High Court

 supervened leaving no choice, according to the State, but to completely

 abandon the process of grant of fresh mining leases through the process of

 competitive bidding for earning revenue and justify the abandonment. 51. As per the Grant of Mining Leases Policy, the State of Goa therefore

 had two realistic options before it: (i) To implement the judgment and order

 of this Court in Goa Foundation (as understood by the State of Goa) and S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 35 of 101 grant fresh mining leases in the manner felt appropriate and in accordance

 with law; (ii) To abide by the judgment of the High Court (and its

 understanding of the judgment of this Court in Goa Foundation while

 rejecting its understanding by the State of Goa) and grant second renewal to

 the mining leases in terms of Section 8(3) of the MMDR Act. The State of

 Goa appears to have taken the view that challenging the decision of the High

 Court (and therefore abiding by the decision of this Court) would delay the

 commencement of mining operations. The State took into consideration that

 a substantial portion of its revenue comes from the mining sector and that

 the State had been virtually starved of funds on account of stoppage of

 mining operations. Therefore, the State decided to grant a second renewal to

 the mining leases and not grant fresh leases. This is quite apparent from the

 contents of the Grant of Mining Leases Policy wherein the above facts and

 conclusions have been stated in greater detail. Was this decision correct? 52. Learned counsel for the mining lease holders submitted that the

 renewal of a mining lease is equivalent to or amounts to the grant of a fresh

 lease and therefore when the mining leases were renewed, it amounted to the

 grant of a fresh lease in compliance with the directions of this Court.

 Reliance was placed upon Delhi Development Authority v. Durga Chand S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 36 of 101 Kaushish11 wherein this Court held: 53. Reference was also made to Provash Chandra Dalui v. Biswanath

 Banerjee12 in which it was held in paragraph 14 of the Report that there is a

 distinction between extension of a lease and renewal of a lease. We do not

 find any relevance of this to our discussion. Reference was also made to the

 view expressed in M.C. Mehta v. Union of India13 wherein this Court noted

 that it is settled law that grant of renewal is a fresh grant and must be

 consistent with law. 54. Finally reliance was placed on State of West Bengal v. Calcutta

 Mineral Supply Company Private Limited14 in which decision it was noted

 in paragraph 31 of the Report that the renewal of a lease is a fresh grant. This decision also refers to Gajraj Singh v. State Transport Appellate

 Tribunal15 wherein this Court observed in paragraph 38 of the Report that

 the grant of renewal is a fresh grant though it breathes life into the operation

 of the previous lease or licence granted. (1973) 2 SCC 825 12 1989 Supp (1) SCC 487 13 (2004) 12 SCC 118 14 (2015) 8 SCC 655 15 (1997) 1 SCC 650 S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 37 of 101 55. There is no doubt that the renewal of a lease is virtually the same as

 the grant of a fresh lease but a converse direction to grant a mining lease

 cannot be understood to mean granting a renewal of a mining lease.

 Obviously, the grant of a fresh lease is not the same as the renewal of a lease

 and when the Court in Goa Foundation required the State of Goa to grant a

 fresh lease, it did not require the State to renew the existing (expired) lease.

 The Court could have explicitly declared and directed the State of Goa to

 grant a second renewal of the mining leases rather than to say it in a

 roundabout manner that it should do so by granting a fresh lease equivalent

 to a renewal. We simply cannot accept the submissions made by learned

 counsel for the mining lease holders in this regard. 56. That apart, as we have already noted above, the context and material

 on record disabuse the thought that the Court in Goa Foundation did not

 mandate the grant of fresh mining leases in accordance with law. 57. Learned counsel for the mining lease holders contended that the very

 same learned judges that decided Goa Foundation permitted the State

 Government in Common Cause v. Union of India16 to consider granting a

 second renewal of mining leases under Section 8(3) of the MMDR Act.

 Therefore the requirement in Goa Foundation for the grant of „fresh leases‟ 16 (2014) 14 SCC 155 S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 38 of 101 must be understood in a manner similar to what was directed in Common

 Cause. We are unable to accept this contention. The direction given in

 Common Cause was an interim direction and not a final direction as in Goa

 Foundation. Moreover, the facts in both cases are not at all similar so as to

 warrant a similar order being passed or understood. Finally, the fact that the

 same set of learned judges thought it fit to direct the grant of „fresh leases‟ in

 one set of cases and thought it fit to direct consideration of a „second

 renewal‟ in another set of cases indicates that the learned judges were aware

 of the difference in directions. Therefore when the leaned judges directed the

 grant of „fresh leases‟ in Goa Foundation it was a deliberate and conscious

 decision distinct and different from granting a second renewal of expired

 mining leases. 58. In our opinion, the direction in Goa Foundation is quite clear and

 instead of considering the grant of a second renewal of the mining leases, the

 State of Goa was required to consider the grant of fresh mining leases.

 Therefore the decision of the State of Goa to grant a second renewal of the

 mining leases is erroneous, contrary to the decision in Goa Foundation and

 must be and is quashed. Whether the State of Goa should have auctioned the mining leases? 59. As mentioned in the Grant of Mining Leases Policy there were several S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 39 of 101 options available to the State of Goa. It took the view that all its options

 were foreclosed post the decision of the High Court and it was obliged to

 grant a second renewal of the mining leases. We have already held that this

 was not so and that the decision to grant a second renewal of the mining

 leases was erroneous and fresh leases were required to be granted in

 accordance with the decision in Goa Foundation. In view of our conclusion,

 the discussion on whether the State of Goa should have auctioned the mining

 leases through a process of competitive bidding is now rendered academic.

 However, since detailed submissions were made by learned counsel on both

 sides, including by the learned Additional Solicitor General, we propose to

 express our views on the subject. 60. The discussion on the question of auction being the only method of

 allocation or disposal of natural resources arose due to the view expressed

 by this Court in Centre for Public Interest Litigation v. Union of India.17 In that decision (hereafter referred to as CPIL – although this case is generally

 referred to as the 2G scam case) the Court dealt with the question of

 following a non-discriminatory policy for alienation of natural resources.

 While doing so it was observed that an auction is “perhaps the best method

 for discharging this burden” and concluded by holding that “while 17 (2012) 3 SCC 1 S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 40 of 101 transferring or alienating the natural resources, the State is duty-bound to

 adopt the method of auction by giving wide publicity so that all eligible

 persons can participate in the process.” This led to the belief that the view of

 this Court was that natural resources should be alienated or disposed of only

 by auction and by no other method. The Court held in paragraphs 95 and 96

 of the Report as follows: 61. In Manohar Lal Sharma v. Principal Secretary18 a Bench of 3 judges

 of this Court paraphrased the above passages and observed that the view 18 (2014) 9 SCC 516 S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 41 of 101 expressed in CPIL necessitated a reference by the President of India to this

 Court under Article 143(1) of the Constitution being Special Reference No.

 1 – Natural Resources Allocation.19 62. What was the Advisory Opinion given by this Court in Natural

 Resources Allocation? Among the questions referred for opinion were the

 following: 63. In the Reference, it was submitted before the Constitution Bench that

 paragraphs 94 to 96 in CPIL laid down the ratio vis-à-vis disposal of natural

 resources. It was argued that “these paragraphs lay down, as a proposition of

 law, that all natural resources across all sectors, and in all circumstances are

 to be disposed of by way of public auction, and on the other [hand], it was

 urged that the observations therein were made only qua spectrum.” 64. The submissions made by learned counsel were then discussed and

 thereafter this Court recorded its conclusions between paragraphs 82 and 84

 of Natural Resources Allocation. In paragraph 84, it was held: 19 65. Thereafter, while answering the first question in the Reference, the

 Court considered the issue from various perspectives. It first dealt with the

 issue in the context of Article 14 and Article 39(b) of the Constitution and

 concluded in paragraph 120 of the Report that the disposal of natural

 resources for revenue maximization through auctions is not a constitutional

 mandate. It was held: Economic logic establishes that alienation/allocation of natural
 resources to the highest bidder may not necessarily be the only way
 to subserve the common good, and at times, may run counter to
 public good. Hence, it needs little emphasis that disposal of all
 natural resources through auctions is clearly not a constitutional
 mandate.” [Emphasis supplied by us]. 66. The issue was then considered from the standpoint of legitimate

 deviations from an auction. After adverting to several decisions of this Court 20 Centre for Public Interest Litigation v. Union of India (CPIL case or 2G scam case) S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 43 of 101 where auctions were not the favoured method of allocation of natural

 resources, it was held between paragraphs 129 and 131 of the Report as

 follows: 67. Finally, the issue was considered from the point of view of the

 potential of abuse in allocation of natural resources other than through

 auction and in this context it was held in paragraph 135 of the Report: 68. The conclusion arrived at by the Constitution Bench was then

 recorded between paragraphs 148 and 150 of the Report in the following

 words: 69. It is therefore more than explicit that there is no constitutional

 requirement (let alone a mandate) for allocation of natural resources through

 the auction method (other than spectrum) but at the same time the auction

 process should not be given a go-bye without any justification – the decision

 to give a go-bye is judicially reviewable though the scope of judicial review

 might be rather restricted. The melting pot of allocation of a natural

 resource, a social or welfare purpose and adherence to the requirements of Articles 14 and 39(b) of the Constitution in matters of policy was a great

 leap forward fashioned by the Constitution Bench. Consequently, while S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 46 of 101 there is no mandate, constitutional or otherwise, that natural resource

 allocation must be only by auction, it is certainly “a more preferable

 method”. There are exceptions, such as when the natural resource allocation

 is for a “social or welfare purpose”. On the other hand if the natural resource

 allocation is “for commercial pursuits of profit maximising private

 entrepreneurs” de hors any social or welfare purpose, then judicial review

 would be permissible and Article 14 of the Constitution would be attracted

 and if the executive action is found to be arbitrary, it would be struck down.

 Therefore, when it comes to natural resource allocation, the executive has a

 somewhat limited elbow room. 70. In his concurring opinion, Justice Khehar took the view (in paragraph

 186 of the Report) that: “…when natural resources are made available by the

 State to private persons for commercial exploitation exclusively for their

 individual gains, the State's endeavour must be towards maximisation of

 revenue returns.” [Emphasis supplied by us] The learned judge concluded

 his opinion by agreeing that an auction is one of the price recovery

 mechanisms, but not the only one for allocation of natural resources. “That

 should not be understood to mean that it can never be a valid method for

 disposal of natural resources.” It was further held that natural resources

 cannot be alienated by way of largesse – there must be a reciprocal S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 47 of 101 consideration either in the form of earning revenue or sub-serving the

 common good or both. The learned judge had this to say: I would, therefore, conclude by stating that no part of the natural
 resource can be dissipated as a matter of largesse, charity,
 donation or endowment, for private exploitation. Each bit of
 natural resource expended must bring back a reciprocal
 consideration. The consideration may be in the nature of earning
 revenue or may be to “best subserve the common good”. It may
 well be the amalgam of the two. There cannot be a dissipation of
 material resources free of cost or at a consideration lower than
 their actual worth. One set of citizens cannot prosper at the cost of
 another set of citizens, for that would not be fair or reasonable.”
 [Emphasis supplied by us]. 71. This issue was considered in Goa Foundation as well. The Court

 adverted to Natural Resources Allocation in paragraph 81 of the Report and

 pithily expressed its view that the manner of granting a mining lease is a

 policy decision of the State Government, but the decision can be examined

 by way of judicial review. It was held: S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 48 of 101 72. This Court then exercised its power of judicial review and considered

 the merits of the explanation given by the Central Government for not

 adopting the competitive bidding route for the allocation of coal blocks. The

 various submissions made, the various hurdles faced (including objections of

 the State Governments) as well as the impracticality of opening up the

 allocation of coal blocks to competitive bidding were considered and then it

 was held (after opening the window of Article 14 of the Constitution) in

 paragraph 110 of the Report: 73. More recently in M/s. Ajar Enterprises Private Limited v.

 Satyanarayan Somani22 this Court once again examined the issue of

 distribution of natural resources and held: 74. Till fairly recently, policy matters particularly of economic policy

 were hands-off as far as the courts were concerned.24 But the recent

 decisions of this Court, including by the Constitution Bench in its advisory

 jurisdiction, have partially modified this theory and kept open the window to

 judicially review such a policy if it does not serve the common good as

 understood in Article 39(b) of the Constitution, if it violates Article 14 of the

 Constitution and alienates natural resources for maximizing profits of private

 entrepreneurs while sidelining Article 39(b) of the Constitution. “The

 legislature and the executive are answerable to the Constitution and it is

 there where the judiciary, the guardian of the Constitution, must find the

 contours to the powers of disposal of natural resources, especially Article 14 and Article 39(b) [ of the Constitution].25 75. Notwithstanding this, a Court must exercise restraint and not set

 aside Government policy only because it disagrees with it or because a better

 policy could be framed or simply because it has the power to set aside the

 policy. Policies framed by the State, after due consideration, must be 24 BALCO Employees’ Union (Regd) v. Union of India , (2002) 2 SCC 333 at paragraphs 46 and 47 25 Paragraph 95 of the Natural Resource Allocation decision S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 52 of 101 respected and given enough elbow room and flexibility for implementation.

 Of course, there would be occasions when the implementation of a policy

 has teething problems or some lacuna is discovered at a slightly later stage,

 but that does not mean that policy itself is defective. Therefore, Courts must

 be very cautious and circumspect in diluting or setting aside a policy and

 must do so only if it is constitutionally unavoidable, otherwise good

 governance could be a casualty. 76. The conclusions that could be drawn from all these decisions are: (i) It

 is not obligatory, constitutionally or otherwise, that a natural resource (other

 than spectrum) must be disposed of or alienated or allocated only through an

 auction or through competitive bidding; (ii) Where the distribution,

 allocation, alienation or disposal of a natural resource is to a private party for

 a commercial pursuit of maximizing profits, then an auction is a more

 preferable method of such allotment; (iii) A decision to not auction a natural

 resource is liable to challenge and subject to restricted and limited judicial

 review under Article 14 of the Constitution; (iv) A decision to not auction a

 natural resource and sacrifice maximization of revenues might be justifiable

 if the decision is taken, inter alia, for the social good or the public good or

 the common good; (v) Unless the alienation or disposal of a natural resource S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 53 of 101 is for the common good or a social or welfare purpose, it cannot be

 dissipated in favour of a private entrepreneur virtually free of cost or for a

 consideration not commensurate with its worth without attracting Article 14 and Article 39(b) of the Constitution. Whether the decision of the State of Goa forsaking the auction route is

 arbitrary? 77. Keeping in mind the broad principles identified above, the question

 that arises for our consideration is whether the State of Goa was justified in

 not adopting the auction route for the grant of mining leases and simply

 granting a second renewal. For a better understanding of this issue, it would

 be worthwhile to again refer to the Goa Mineral Policy, the report of the

 EAC, the Grant of Mining Leases Policy and the decision of the Bombay

 High Court, which documents were relied upon by the learned Additional

 Solicitor General. (i) Goa Mineral Policy 78. The Mineral Policy makes it very clear that during the period from

 about 2006 till about 2012 (for about 5 years) extraction of iron ore in Goa

 was nothing but a free-for-all situation. Illegalities and irregularities were

 committed in abundance by all concerned, particularly the mining lease

 holders. The Mineral Policy records that the State witnessed the peak of S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 54 of 101 chaotic and unregulated mining. The thought of protecting and preserving

 the environment, concern for the fragile ecology of Goa was far from the

 thoughts of the stakeholders – even the well-being of the average Goan was

 not taken into consideration by the stakeholders. A reading of the initial

 paragraphs of the Mineral Policy suggests that nothing short of rapacious

 mining was going on in Goa. Who were the beneficiaries of all this

 rapaciousness? Could all this be ignored? 79. The Mineral Policy informs us that the beneficiaries of the

 rapaciousness were not the domestic industry and certainly not the average

 Goan. The reason for this is spelt out in the Mineral Policy itself. Iron ore

 from Goa is not suitable for the Indian industry due to the low Fe content

 and the high silica presence. Therefore, there is no value addition to the

 Indian industry and the iron ore was mined only for export – mainly to

 China and also to Japan. With a port in the vicinity, Goan iron ore was an

 attractive buy for the global market and the spin-offs benefited those in the

 port, transporters and barge owners etc. The primary beneficiary of this was,

 of course, the mining lease holder, a private entity, and the price was paid by

 the average Goan who had to suffer a polluted environment and witness the

 damage to the State‟s ecology. S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 55 of 101 80. If the issues mentioned in the Mineral Policy are objectively

 considered in strict monetary terms, the only conclusion that can be drawn is

 that the extraction of iron ore was for commercial purposes and maximizing

 the revenues of private entrepreneurs and not necessarily the State of Goa.

 The natural resource was exploited by some mining lease holders for making

 profits and nothing else. There were some collateral beneficiaries as well,

 and they too were commercially driven entities such as barge owners, truck

 owners etc. Under these circumstances, the question that arises is whether

 the mining lease holders should have been given a second renewal of the

 mining lease virtually for a song, that is, payment only of royalty, when they

 were driven only by a profit motive or whether the mining leases ought to

 have been auctioned? Unfortunately, the Mineral Policy did not advert to or

 even consider any solution that would break from the past. 81. As far as the environment, the fragile ecology of Goa and the well-

 being of the average Goan and the rule of law is concerned, the Mineral

 Policy categorically states that the State had witnessed, from 2006-07 till

 2011-12 the peak of chaotic and unregulated mining without any concern for

 the fragile ecology and environment of the State or for the general well-

 being of an average Goan. Surely, all this cannot be ignored or brushed

 aside particularly since the exploitation of mineral resources for five years S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 56 of 101 had no element of social or public purpose, no concern for society and no

 regard for the environment and the laws. (ii) Vishwanath Anand Expert Appraisal Committee 82. A reading of the report of the EAC is disturbing and acutely highlights

 the damage to the environment and ecology by the mining lease holders. The

 complete indifference by all concerned is evident from a careful reading of

 the report. We propose to refer to and quote in extenso the „summary of

 observations‟ and the „concluding remarks‟ from the report of the EAC since

 they are self explanatory: V. In respect of 20 cases mine leases were renewed under MMDR Act,
 1957 prior to grant of FCs [Forest Clearance]. VI. In 29 cases, project proponents have furnished wrong information
 about distance from the nearest PAs. VII. Non-compliance of various EC conditions such as excess
 production/unauthorized dump mining/drawal of ground water
 without prior approval of CGWB/encroachment; have also been
 reported in respect of working mines. Concluding Remarks
 A reading of our observations and recommendations would show
 that without exception, every proponent to whom an
 environment clearance was issued has either violated its
 conditions or has furnished information in the application which
 has been distant from the truth. There are basically two types of
 violations; one that cannot be legally condoned and those that can be
 rectified with remedial measures. This is the reason why the
 committee has recommended that all ECs for mines located within
 one km from PAs should be revoked and in cases where untruthful
 information was furnished in the application for EC, such mines
 should not be allowed to reopen. In the case of those mines which
 have been closed for more than five years, their reopening has not
 been recommended without their applying de novo for a fresh
 environmental clearance as micro environmental conditions on the
 ground would have changed during the period they remained closed.
 However, when one looks at the manner in which the directives
 dated 04.08.2006 and 04.12.2006 of the Supreme Court have been
 implemented one cannot help but feel that there is the absence of a
 bridge mechanism within the Ministry to ensure and oversee that
 directives of the Courts are complied with due diligence and
 seriousness. There are two factors which stand out; in some ECs as mentioned in
 this report, the condition was inserted that the project proponent
 should seek approval of the CWLW [Chief Wild Life Warden], in S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 58 of 101 others it was stated that approval of the Competent
 Authority/Standing Committee of the NBWL should be obtained and
 in a third category no condition at all was imposed, even though
 some of these ECs pertain to the same meeting and timelines
 between 2005 and 2007. It is strange that concerned officials in the
 MOEF were not aware that other than the Standing Committee of the
 NBWL no other person was authorised to grant the permission
 envisaged by the order dated 04.12.2006 of the Supreme Court. This
 is not to state that any discrepancy in the EC letter would absolve the
 project proponent from complying with the law of the land. This has
 resulted in creating ambiguity amongst many of the project
 proponents and it was not until 01.01.2009, that the MOEF issued a
 public notice clarifying the position. Considering that some of the project proponents may have been
 misguided by the ambivalence of the MOEF in not clearly
 delineating the legal position, it is suggested that in the case of those
 project proponents who did not conceal facts in their applications but
 did not apply for permission to the Standing Committee of the
 NBWL, their applications may be considered for being placed before
 the Standing Committee of the NBWL. However this can in no way
 be construed as a justification on the part of the project proponents
 for not complying with the requirements of the law. It must be noted
 for example that in those cases where mining has intersected the
 ground water, approval of the CGWB [Central Ground Water Board]
 had not been taken by the project proponents as was required by the
 EC. Similarly, there are cases where mining operations have taken
 place without obtaining a FC. ……. As regards violations of the conditions of the ECs and where
 environmental damage has been caused, the concerned proponents
 should be made accountable and the MOEF should examine as to
 how some monetary damages can be levied through due legal
 process based on the Polluter Must Pay principle, the proceeds of
 which could be used for environmental rehabilitation.
 There are concerns about the carrying capacity of the area with
 regard to its ability to sustain the extent and quantum of mining that
 has taken place there. It is recommended that a carrying capacity
 study should be commissioned for the area, or if another study by a
 nationally recognised institution is coming to fruition the result of S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 59 of 101 that should be acted upon. Such a study should also take into account
 the impact of mining on the hydrology of the region and the extent
 of pollution caused to surface and ground water. This study should
 be compared to the earlier 10 years baseline data to determine the
 impact of mining on the biodiversity and hydrology of the area in the
 last decade. Based on the finding of this, a specific policy for
 mining of iron ore in the region may be developed. Such a policy
 along with a proper control and monitoring mechanism is necessary
 in order to avoid a situation such as the one under question. It would
 hopefully also ensure that mining in this region is carried out in
 accordance with best sectoral practices using appropriately clean
 technologies.” [Emphasis supplied by us]. 83. The report of the EAC reveals that there is not a single environment

 related or mining related law or legal requirement that was not violated by

 one or the other mining lease holder. Quite clearly, the rule of

 environmental law in Goa had gone with the wind. 84. There was one extremely important requirement relating to extraction

 of groundwater – that is clearance from the Central Ground Water Board -

 but even that was ignored. During the course of submissions, we were

 informed that there is plenty of groundwater available in Goa. However,

 what seems to have been overlooked is that with the intersection of

 groundwater levels with mining operations, the groundwater would get

 depleted much faster than expected or the quality of the groundwater would

 deteriorate. It is for this reason that MoEF insisted that clearance for drawal

 of groundwater must be taken from the Central Ground Water Board and S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 60 of 101 care taken in respect of the intersection of groundwater level with mining

 operations (this happened in 46 cases). Unfortunately, no heed was paid to

 these requirements by the State of Goa or any of the mining lease holders

 and not one mining least holder has any clearance (where required) from the

 Central Ground Water Board, or at least none was brought to our notice. (iii) Decision of the Bombay High Court 85. The High Court essentially created two classes of applicants for the

 grant of a mining lease – those in whose favour an in-principle decision had

 been taken for a second renewal of the mining lease and who had paid the

 necessary stamp duty in terms of the Government order of 21 st February,

 2013 and those who had not yet paid the requisite stamp duty. 86. As regards the first category, the High Court directed execution of the

 mining lease in their favour in accordance with the provisions of Section

 8(3) of the MMDR Act. This was on the belief that the applicants had

 applied for the second renewal within the prescribed time period; the Indian

 Bureau of Mines had approved the mining plans of these applicants; the

 Indian Bureau of Mines was subjectively satisfied that the second renewal

 was in the interest of mineral development; and that in view of the principles

 of promissory estoppel these applicants were entitled to a second renewal of S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 61 of 101 their mining lease since they had altered their position to their detriment by

 paying the stamp duty demanded. 87. As regards the second category (those who had not paid the stamp

 duty), the High Court directed the State of Goa to decide their second

 renewal application within a period of three months keeping in mind the

 provisions of Section 8(3) of the MMDR Act (and the requirement to pay the

 stamp duty). 88. The decision of the High Court does not at all discuss the options

 available to the State of Goa, namely, second renewal of the mining leases

 versus auction of a natural resource. In fact it appears that the High Court

 was not at all alive to the possibility of an auction of the mining leases,

 notwithstanding the view canvassed by the learned Advocate General of the

 State of Goa. (iv) Goa Grant of Mining Leases Policy 2014 89. The Grant of Mining Leases Policy announced and issued on 4th

 November, 2014 is perhaps the most important document in the entire

 scheme of things and that is the reason it was read out extensively by the

 learned Additional Solicitor General and that is why we have chosen to

 quote it extensively. 90. A consideration of the contemporaneous facts beginning with the S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 62 of 101 Budget Speech given by the Hon‟ble Minister of Finance of the Government

 of India on 10th July, 2014 makes it clear that an amendment to the MMDR

 Act was to be effected sooner than later. The Grant of Mining Leases Policy

 overlooks that and proceeds on the basis that the judgment of the High Court

 delivered on 13th August, 2014 left the Government of Goa with no choice

 but to abandon the grant of mining leases through competitive bidding, even

 though that might be the most appropriate method of obtaining the best

 revenue for the public good. The Government of Goa had therefore “for the

 present” ruled out the process of going in for competitive bidding keeping

 also in mind that the State was virtually starved of funds and had to balance

 the equities and needs of all, including the labour class, working class and

 other staff, markets in mining localities, public sector, mining lease holders,

 welfare needs of the State, environment and fragile ecology of the State and

 general well-being of the average Goan. 91. The State of Goa was also alive to the fact that many (if not all)

 mining lease holders had violated the terms of the mining lease or some

 statutory obligation. Therefore, it was decided to categorize the offenders as

 follows: 92. The offences ranged, amongst others, from illegal sale of ore, sale of

 royalty challan without ore, encroachment of adjoining areas outside the

 lease, over production in excess of the limit specified in the environmental

 clearance, unscientific mining operations, violations with respect to payment

 of royalty amount, re-use of old royalty challans for defrauding, illegal

 mining activities etc. etc. None of these are „minimal‟ violations. However,

 and this is important, the Grant of Mining Leases Policy made it clear that

 the following shall not be considered for renewal of mining leases: (i) Those

 facing an inquiry initiated pursuant to the orders of this Court in paragraph

 88.2 of Goa Foundation for the violation of Rules 37 and 38 of the Mineral S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 64 of 101 Concession Rules, 1960; (ii) Those indicted by the Justice M.B. Shah

 Commission; and (iii) Those indicted by the Public Accounts Committee.

 The Grant of Mining Leases Policy stated that inquiries are already in

 progress “at various levels and foras” including a Special Investigation

 Team and a team of Chartered Accountants. We dare say that violations

 pointed out by the EAC ought also to have been taken into consideration. 93. Be that as it may, there is no doubt that iron ore mining in Goa was

 solely for commercial purposes – it was extracted primarily for export to

 China and Japan without any value addition to the domestic industry. True

 this brought in considerable foreign exchange – nevertheless iron ore

 extraction gave insignificant value addition (if at all) to Indian industry. The

 only advantage that iron ore extraction gave to the State was in terms of

 royalty, but the larger benefit accrued to the private mining lease holder who

 could obtain a mining lease on renewal virtually free and without any social

 or welfare purpose. In other words, the State sacrificed maximizing revenue

 for no apparent positive reason, virtually surrendering itself to the

 commercial and profit making motives of private entrepreneurs and ignoring

 the interests of Goan society in general. Therefore, in principle, the decision

 of the State of Goa to not auction the grant of mining leases was flawed in

 that it did not serve the common or public or social good but primarily S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 65 of 101 assisted in filling the coffers of private entrepreneurs. We are not inclined to

 go so far as to describe the decision as arbitrary since it is not necessary to

 do so. 94. However, we make it clear that we have dealt with this issue because

 it was canvassed before us. We are not inclined to quash the decision of the

 State of Goa of not going in for competitive bidding for the grant of fresh

 mining leases since it is not necessary in view of our conclusion that fresh

 mining leases were required to be granted by the State of Goa. 95. At this stage we must refer to a submission made by Mr. C.U. Singh

 learned counsel appearing for some of the mining lease holders. He

 submitted that prior to 12th January, 2015 the MMDR Act did not permit the

 auction of mining leases. Therefore, even if the State of Goa was desirous of

 introducing competitive bidding for grant of fresh mining leases it could not

 have done so. He drew our attention to Section 11 of the MMDR Act (as it

 stood prior to its amendment in 2015) which provided a preferential right for

 obtaining a prospecting license or mining lease to the holder of a

 reconnaissance permit or prospecting license. He submitted, placing reliance

 on Sandur Manganese and Iron Ores Limited v. State of Karnataka26 that

 since the MMDR Act is a complete code in itself, the method or procedure 26 (2010) 13 SCC 1 S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 66 of 101 for grant of a lease cannot travel outside the confines of the statute and the

 Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 framed thereunder. Reference was made to

 paragraphs 40 to 43 of the judgment: 96. The controversy in Sandur Manganese related to the grant of mining

 leases contrary to the provisions of Section 11 of the MMDR Act in that a

 non-statutory criterion was taken into consideration de hors Section 11 of

 the MMDR Act for evaluating the applications and seeking approval of the

 Central Government for granting a mining lease. This was held to be

 impermissible and it may be so. In any event, paragraph 44 of the Report

 makes it clear that there is a distinction between the requirements of Section

 11(3) of the MMDR Act and Section 8(3) of the MMDR Act. Sandur

 Manganese is not applicable to the facts of the present case. 97. Similarly, reference was made to the Statement of Objects and S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 68 of 101 Reasons for the Bill introduced in 2015 to amend the MMDR Act . It was

 stated therein that “The present legal framework of the MMDR Act, 1957 ,

 does not permit the auctioning of mineral concessions.” 98. This submission need not detain us since we are not required to

 adjudicate whether the State of Goa should have auctioned the mining leases

 or not. The State of Goa decided to renew the mining leases and we are only

 called upon to decide (i) Whether the policy decision not to auction the grant

 of mining leases was arbitrary (we have already held that we are not required

 to express a final opinion on this). We may, however, recall en passant that

 the Goa Grant of Mining Leases Policy proceeded on the basis that the

 auction of mining leases was permissible and that had the sanction of the

 Court in Goa Foundation. It may be added that the MMDR Act did not

 prohibit the auction of mining leases. (ii) Whether the second renewals were

 in accordance with law and the constitutional principles. 99. We may also note that the Constitution Bench in Natural Resources

 Allocation referred to the submission that if auction were the only method of

 allocating natural resources (as it appears from CPIL) then the mandate

 would create a conflict with some statutes including the MMDR Act . The

 Constitution Bench dealt with this submission in paragraph 83 of the Report

 by observing: S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 69 of 101 100. In view of decisions of this Court, including in Natural Resources

 Allocation it is permissible for this Court to judicially review, to a limited

 and restricted extent, the Grant of Mining Leases Policy, among other

 things, if it falls foul of Article 14 read with Article 39(b) of the Constitution

 and if it ignores the common or public or social good but benefits private

 entrepreneurs, particularly when it involves the natural resources, by

 sacrificing the maximization of revenue for the State. 101. In Natural Resources Allocation the Constitution Bench observed

 that “Alienation of natural resources is a policy decision, and the means 32 (2012) 3 SCC 1 S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 70 of 101 adopted for the same are thus, executive prerogatives. However, when such

 a policy decision is not backed by a social or welfare purpose, and precious

 and scarce natural resources are alienated for commercial pursuits of profit

 maximising private entrepreneurs, adoption of means other than those that

 are competitive and maximise revenue may be arbitrary and face the wrath

 of Article 14 of the Constitution.” 102. Similarly in Goa Foundation this Court declared that “It is for the

 State Government to decide as a matter of policy in what manner mining

 leases are to be granted in future but the constitutionality or legality of the

 decision of the State Government can be examined by the Court in exercise

 of its power of judicial review.” 103. Despite the dicta of the Constitution Bench and the declaration made

 by this Court in Goa Foundation we do not propose to judicially review the

 Grant of Mining Leases Policy but to consider on merits whether the grant of

 second renewal to the mining leases was in accordance with the Grant of

 Mining Leases Policy and the law. 104. In our opinion, in renewing the mining leases, the State of Goa

 completely ignored several relevant and important and significant factors

 giving the impression that the renewals were not quite fair or reasonable. 105. For one, the State ignored the fact that every single mining lease S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 71 of 101 holder had committed some illegality or the other in varying degrees. To

 identify these illegalities (although they had already been identified by the

 Justice Shah Commission and by the EAC), a Special Investigation Team

 had been set up as also a team of Chartered Accountants. Instead of waiting

 for a report from any one of these teams, the State acted in violation of the

 Grant of Mining Leases Policy and renewed the mining leases. Why was the

 report from the Special Investigation Team not awaited or called for and

 examined? In the Grant of Mining Leases Policy it was clearly and explicitly

 stated (as mentioned above) as follows: 106. Unfortunately, the undue haste in which the State acted gives the

 impression that it was willing to sacrifice the rule of law for the benefit of

 the mining lease holders and the explanation of satisfying the needs of some

 sections of society for their livelihood (after keeping them in the lurch for

 more than two years) was a mere fig leaf. The real intention of the second

 renewal was to satisfy the avariciousness of the mining lease holders who

 were motivated by profits to be made through the exploitation of natural

 resources. 107. The undue haste also needs to be looked at in the context of the

 statement made in the final paragraph of the Grant of Mining Leases Policy

 to the effect that this Policy is an in-principle decision and would be notified

 after it is vetted for legal requirements “from specific necessities as also

 from financial view points”. In other words, the Grant of Mining Leases

 Policy as published on 4th November, 2014 was not a final policy statement

 but only an intent that would take final shape after due vetting. The Grant of

 Mining Leases Policy was eventually published on 20th January, 2015 but it

 was acted upon even before it was gazetted. 108. A partial explanation for this hurry, if we may venture to suggest, is

 that the State of Goa was aware (like everybody else) on 17th November,

 2014 if not earlier, of the policy of the Government of India to auction the S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 73 of 101 grant of mining leases which policy was made available in the public

 domain on that date and suggestions invited. It is on 17 th November, 2014

 that the draft Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 2014 was published on the website of the Ministry of Mines of the Government of

 India. The policy of the Government of India proposed to introduce Section

 10B by way of an amendment to the MMDR Act and the proposed

 amendment made it very clear that if it were to be accepted, auction of

 mining leases in respect of notified minerals (including iron ore) would

 become a reality if not an obligation. It appears that to circumvent this rather

 uncomfortable policy, the State pressed the accelerator on the renewal of

 mining leases from December 2014 onward to benefit mining lease holders.

 So much so that in respect of 5 mining leases, the State overstepped the law

 and granted a second renewal in early January 2015 to some entities without

 even waiting for any approval or deemed approval of the mining plan from

 the Indian Bureau of Mines or any other authority. 109. This sequence of events acquires further significance when it is

 recalled that an Ordinance to amend the MMDR Act was made known to the

 general public on 5th January, 2015 and promulgated by the President on 12th

 January, 2015 thereby mandating competitive bidding or auction for the

 grant of mining leases. The State of Goa perhaps anticipated this in view of S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 74 of 101 the publication of the draft Mines and Minerals (Development and

 Regulation) Act, 2014 and therefore hurried into the second renewal of

 mining leases (notwithstanding the Grant of Mining Leases Policy) to defeat

 the introduction of the auction process. In fact in the period from 5 th January,

 2015 to 12th January, 2015 the Government of Goa granted a second renewal

 to as many as 56 mining leases and from 17th November, 2014 the State of

 Goa granted a second renewal to as many as 75 mining leases. The sudden

 spurt of renewal of mining leases is beyond comprehension. The judgment

 and order of the High Court in Lithoferro cannot be used as a shield for

 explaining the haste. 110. These facts must also be appreciated in the context that mining

 operations were suspended in Goa with effect from 10th September, 2012

 due to an order passed by the State of Goa. Therefore, mining operations

 having been suspended for more than two years, the State could have

 certainly waited for a few weeks more and taken an informed and reasoned

 decision on granting a second renewal to mining leases – but waiting for a

 few weeks could have led to an uncomfortable situation that would have

 compelled the State of Goa to auction the mining leases, hence the haste. S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 75 of 101 111. This Court held in Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. v. Union of India33 that

 for the purposes of Section 8(3) of the MMDR Act34 the concept of „mineral

 development‟ encompasses the concept of captive mining, an assessment of

 its requirement by different industries as well as the principle of equitable

 distribution (under Article 39(b) of the Constitution). It is not at all clear

 from the records before us that the State had applied its mind to these and

 other factors including the report of Justice Shah, the report of the EAC, the

 absence of any value addition to the domestic industry and the degradation

 of the environment as noted by the Expert Committee appointed by this

 Court in concluding that a second renewal was „in the interests of mineral

 development‟. Mere reliance on the acceptance or deemed acceptance of the

 Indian Bureau of Mines is not enough, as imagined by the State of Goa. The

 matter of „interests of mineral development‟ has to be considered holistically

 and not in an isolationist manner. 33 (1996) 9 SCC 709 34 “8. Periods for which mining leases may be granted or renewed.- (1) The maximum period for which a mining
lease may be granted shall not exceed thirty years: 112. In this context, it is also necessary to point out that the National

 Mineral Policy 2008 provided that: “To maximise gains from the

 comparative advantage which the country enjoys intra se mineral

 development will be prioritised in terms of import substitution, value

 addition and export, in that order.” Admittedly, iron ore is not extracted in

 Goa for import substitution, or value addition for domestic industry, but only

 for the last option, that is, export. Can it reasonably be said that the export

 of iron ore is in the interest of mineral development? We were informed that

 only one of the mining lease holders captively consumes the extracted iron

 ore and it is evident from the Mineral Policy that despite mining operations

 having closed down for some period in other States, iron ore from Goa was

 not used in the domestic steel industry. Therefore, it is not at all clear who,

 other than the mining lease holders making exports, was benefited by

 resumption of mining operations in Goa through a second renewal. 113. The Mineral Policy clearly suggests that for a period of five years

 between 2006 and 2012 the mining lease holders committed various

 illegalities and irregularities in the mining process. This is an indication of

 their exploitative and rapacious attitude having little or no concern for the

 environment, the fragile ecology of Goa or even the health and well-being of

 the average Goan. This irreparable damage was being caused by the mining S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 77 of 101 lease holders without any benefit to the domestic industry. Therefore, while

 the mining lease holders may have contributed virtually nothing to the

 domestic industry, they might have made considerable profits through

 exports and might have also benefited the foreign exchange reserves of the

 country, but the real-time damage to the quality of health and life of the

 average Goan and damage to the environment and ecology of Goa is

 nevertheless incalculable or at least considerable – and export benefits

 cannot be weighed against health or the environment. 114. What is unfortunate about the entire commercial activity of the mining

 lease holders is that there was no social or public purpose attached to the

 mining operations. There was one and only one objective behind the mining

 activity and that was profit maximization. The renewal of the mining leases

 would give considerable profits to the mining lease holders well beyond the

 benefits that could accrue to the State or to the average resident of Goa. It

 was observed by Justice Khehar in Natural Resources Allocation that

 material resources of the country should not be dissipated free of cost or at a

 consideration lower than their actual worth. This was not kept in mind and

 mining leases were renewed for a small payment of stamp duty and royalty.

 It is therefore clear that the considerations that weighed with the State were

 not for the people of Goa but were for the mining lease holders. This S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 78 of 101 certainly cannot be described as being “in the interests of mineral

 development.” 115. With the mining lease holders violating virtually every applicable law

 or legal requirement, it is clear that the rule of law was not their concern.

 The list of violations and their variety was documented by the EAC and it

 makes for some very sad reading. To make matters worse, it was clearly

 mentioned in the Grant of Mining Leases Policy that a Special Investigating

 Team and a team of Chartered Accountants would look into all the

 violations but the State chose not to wait for any of the reports. There is no

 explanation for this. 116. In this background, there is little to suggest that the State considered

 the requirements of Section 8(3) of the MMDR Act in that the interests of

 mineral development was secondary while granting the second renewal of

 mining leases. The entire exercise undertaken by the State was a hasty

 charade, regardless of violations of the law by the mining lease holders,

 without any benefit to the Indian industry and without any concern for the

 health of the average Goan. 117. The undue haste with which the State granted the second renewal of

 mining leases particularly after the amendments proposed to the MMDR Act were placed in the public domain by the Government of India (relating to the S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 79 of 101 auction of mining leases) is a clear indication that the decision of the State

 was not based on relevant material and not necessarily triggered by the

 interests of mineral development. The very large number of renewals

 granted over a comparatively brief period is a clear indication that the State

 did not have „mineral development‟ in mind but had some other non-

 statutory interests while taking its decision to grant a second renewal to the

 mining leases. The haste with which the State took its decision also needs to

 be understood in the background of the fact that mining had been suspended

 by the State in September 2012 that is more than two years prior to the grant

 of second renewals. The urgency suddenly exhibited by the State therefore

 seems to be make-believe and motivated rather than genuine. 118. Facts from the record also disclose some interesting information

 regarding the second renewal of mining leases. The table below indicates

 that except 13 mining leases, all the others were renewed after publication of

 the draft Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 2014 on

 17th November, 2014. The table is given below and is self explanatory: Period Mining leases renewed Between 5-17 November, 2014 13 Between 10 December, 2014 and 2 January, 19 2015 Between 5-12 January, 2015 56 Total 88 On 12 January, 2015 31 S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 80 of 101 119. Of the 13 mining leases renewed in November 2014, it is found that

 according to the State of Goa all of them are Category-I violators (except

 Geetabala M.N. Parulekar who is a Category–II violator). However, it was

 pointed out by learned counsel appearing on behalf of Goa Foundation that

 the report of the Vishwanath Anand EAC indicates that a recommendation

 was made to revoke the environmental clearance in respect of 6 mining

 lease holders; additionally, none of the mining lease holders had approval

 from the National Board for Wildlife (where required); all of them (except 2) had mined in excess of the permissible limit under the environmental

 clearance; all of them had indulged in dump mining; some of them were

 guilty of encroachments; in almost every case the mining activity intersected

 ground water level and none of the mining lease holders had permission for

 ground water withdrawal. These cannot be described as minor violations but

 were actually multiple violations in almost all cases. How could the State

 of Goa and MoEF overlook these recommendations and multiple violations? 120. It may be recalled that the Mines and Minerals (Development and

 Regulation) Amendment Ordinance, 2015 came into force on 12 th January,

 2015 and on that day as many as 31 mining leases were renewed. In respect

 of 5 mining leases renewed in January, 2015 the report from the Indian S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 81 of 101 Bureau of Mines was called for in January, 2015 itself and the mining leases

 were renewed without receipt of the report from the Indian Bureau of Mines

 and before expiry of the mandatory period for submitting the report in terms

 of the second proviso to Rule 24A(3) of the Mineral Concession Rules,

 1960. In other words, without even receipt of any report from the Indian

 Bureau of Mines and even before the expiry of the statutory waiting period,

 the State of Goa renewed some mining leases. This is patently illegal. 121. We were informed by the learned Additional Solicitor General that of

 the 88 mining leases that were renewed, 38 of them are not working for a

 variety of reasons – making their renewal an empty exercise. 122. These facts are mentioned in the context of the undue haste shown by

 the State of Goa in granting a second renewal to the mining leases keeping

 the following dates in mind: 123. It is possible that the State did have some serious governance issues to

 contend with as mentioned in the Grant of Mining Leases Policy, namely,

 since iron ore mining had been suspended for more than two years, the State

 faced a lack of funds resulting in its having difficulty in undertaking

 infrastructure projects and other activities. The State had also to contend

 with the adverse effects faced by a large population that was directly or

 indirectly dependent on the mining sector. Additionally, the transport sector

 was affected as well as barges used for transport through rivers from jetties.

 The stoppage of mining operations therefore affected several categories of

 stakeholders including small business or small commercial ventures and

 workers/labour. The Grant of Mining Leases Policy also noted that there

 was a tremendous loss of foreign exchange of about $8 billion through

 exports and more than Rs. 850 crores towards loans/advances on the mining

 sector for a variety of activities as well as about Rs. 1000 crores towards

 housing, business and other loans. Over all there was a slump in economic

 activity which also had an impact on the education sector etc. 124. The State has projected virtual chaos (which could be an

 exaggeration) but that is why we have left open the issue of arbitrariness of

 the policy decision. Nevertheless the State is bound by the law, however

 uncomfortable it might be in granting a second renewal in terms of Section S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 83 of 101 8(3) of the MMDR Act . Therefore, on an overall consideration of all aspects

 of the case, we are of opinion that the decision of the State of Goa to quickly

 renew the mining leases while ostensibly complying with the requirements

 of Section 8(3) of the MMDR Act and thereby jettisoning the rule of law

 was unjustified. Whether fresh environmental clearances were required to be obtained
 by the mining lease holders? 125. The question whether the mining lease holders required fresh

 environmental clearances arises in the context of paragraph 82 of the

 decision rendered in Goa Foundation quoted above. It must be stated that

 some mining lease holders had environmental clearances under EIA 1994

 while others under EIA 2006. Notwithstanding this, since we have held that

 fresh mining leases were required to be granted, it follows that fresh

 environmental clearance is required to be obtained by those who are granted

 a fresh mining lease. 126. That apart, the materials before the Court while deciding Goa

 Foundation included the report of the Justice Shah Commission, the report

 of the EAC and the report of the Expert Committee constituted by the Court

 by orders dated 11th November, 2013 and 18th November, 2013. On a

 combined reading of the material before it, the Court took a broad view that S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 84 of 101 large-scale mining of iron ore led to several adverse impacts including those

 related to the environment, ecology and health of the people of Goa and that

 these illegalities and irregularities were committed by almost all (if not all)

 mining lease holders as reported by the EAC. The Court also accepted the

 view of the Expert Committee that the ecology of Goa was being degraded

 through indiscriminate mining and placed a cap on the annual excavation of

 iron ore. It was noted that mining by the lessees in Goa after 22nd November,

 2007 was illegal and that mining operations were suspended by the State of

 Goa on 10th September, 2012 and environmental clearances granted to the

 mines were kept in abeyance by the MoEF on 14th September, 2012.

 Considering all this, as well as the law laid down in Goa Foundation to the

 effect that there is no automatic second renewal of a mining lease but that a

 second renewal must be granted in accordance with the provisions of Section

 8(3) of the MMDR Act, the Court used the expression “grant fresh

 environmental clearances for mining projects” in the passage referred to

 above . 127. We have already adverted to the report of the EAC. As far as the

 Expert Committee set up by the Court is concerned, it had furnished an

 Interim Report dated 14th March, 2014 in which it noted large-scale

 degradation of the environment and recommended placing an annual cap S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 85 of 101 between 20 and 27.5 million tonnes on the extraction of iron ore in Goa. The

 Expert Committee noted the following (which makes for some very

 depressing reading): 128. Faced with this material evidence before it, the Court took the view in

 Goa Foundation that fresh environmental clearances must be obtained.

 Unfortunately however, the State of Goa was more concerned with earning

 revenue rather than the health of the people of Goa or enforcing the rule of

 law and therefore gave a complete go-bye to the directions of this Court and

 to the concerns of the citizens of Goa and requested the MoEF to lift the

 abeyance on the environmental clearances. 129. Acting on the request made by the State of Goa by letters dated 7th

 January, 2015 and 5th February, 2015, the MoEF passed three orders on 20th

 March, 2015. We have already adverted to the contents of the orders passed

 on 20th March, 2015. 130. The first order of 20th March, 2015 is essentially a communication

 documenting the variety of illegalities and irregularities committed by the

 mining lease holders and that the Government of India would be referring

 the cases for appropriate action and also requesting the Principal Secretary,

 Environment in the Government of Goa to take necessary action. 131. The second order of 20th March, 2015 is an Office Memorandum to

 the effect that a project proponent will not be required to obtain a fresh

 environmental clearance at the time of renewal of the mining lease. This is

 misleading information and contrary to the decision of this Court in M.C. S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 87 of 101 Mehta v. Union of India35 as well as the decision rendered in Common

 Cause v. Union of India.36 132. It was held in Ambica Quarry Works v. State of Gujarat37 , Rural

 Litigation and Entitlement Kendra v. State of U.P.38 and State of M.P. v.

 Krishnadas Tikaram39 (which decisions were followed in M.C. Mehta) that

 the renewal of a lease, whether under the provisions of the Forest

 (Conservation) Act, 1980 or otherwise cannot be granted without the lease

 holder complying with the necessary statutory requirements particularly

 since the grant of renewal is a fresh grant and must be consistent with law.

 The principle of compliance with statutory provisions at the stage of renewal

 of a lease was re-affirmed in Common Cause in paragraphs 105 and 106 of

 the Report. In paragraph 188(2) of the Report it was categorically held as

 follows: 133. The third order of 20th March, 2015 is extremely cryptic in the matter

 of lifting the abeyance order of 14th September, 2012 on environmental 35 (2004)12 SCC 118 36 (2017) 9 SCC 499 37 (1987) 1 SCC 213 38 1989 Supp (1) SCC 504 39 1995 Supp (1) SCC 587 S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 88 of 101 clearances. While dealing with 35 mining leases for which environmental

 clearance had been granted under EIA 1994 and 37 mining leases for which

 environmental clearance had been granted under EIA 2006, the following is

 stated: 134. As mentioned above and as held in M.C. Mehta and Common Cause,

 the renewal of a lease after 27th January, 1994 would require an

 environmental clearance. Therefore, a mining lease holder having a valid

 environmental clearance obtained under EIA 1994 would still require a fresh

 environmental clearance for renewal of the mining lease in 2014-2015 as the

 case may be. That being so there is no doubt at all that the 35 cases referred

 to in the third order of 20th March, 2015 who had an environmental

 clearance under EIA 1994 did require a fresh environmental clearance at the

 time of renewal of the mining lease. Since they did not have such a fresh

 environmental clearance the renewal of these 35 mining leases is clearly

 bad in law. Moreover, as held in M.C. Mehta and Common Cause the S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 89 of 101 validity of an environmental clearance granted under EIA 1994 is only for

 five years. Therefore all environmental clearances granted under EIA 1994

 had lost their validity before 2015, EIA 1994 having been replaced by EIA

 2006. 135. As regards the 37 mining leases that had obtained environmental

 clearance under EIA 2006, since the validity of the environmental clearance

 is for the estimated project life or a maximum of 30 years in terms of

 paragraph 9 of EIA 2006 therefore no violation can be found on the ground

 of validity for the time period. To this limited extent, no interference is

 necessary at this stage in respect of these 37 mining leases. We make it

 clear, however, that this is subject to our conclusion that fresh mining leases

 were required to be granted by the State of Goa. Consequently, a mining

 lease holder obtaining a fresh mining lease would require a fresh

 environmental clearance in terms of EIA 2006. 136. What is disturbing is that notwithstanding several and various

 violations, the MoEF granted environmental clearance to 72 mining leases.

 It seems to us that the MoEF acted without any application of mind in lifting

 the order placing all the environmental clearances in abeyance. Since the

 entire exercise carried out by the MoEF on 20th March, 2015 was

 mechanical, at the behest of the State of Goa, without due application of S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 90 of 101 mind, without considering the multiple illegalities and irregularities

 committed by the mining lease holders or passing on the buck to the State of

 Goa and without considering relevant material such as the report of the EAC

 and the Expert Committee appointed by this Court, the exercise of lifting the

 abeyance order on 20th March, 2015 by the MoEF must be held void and as

 directed by the Court in Goa Foundation all the mining lease holders must

 obtain fresh environmental clearance for their mining project. 137. We were informed by the learned Additional Solicitor General that

 show cause notices have now been issued to some mining lease holders

 demanding huge amounts - some running into hundreds of crores of rupees

 towards value of ore extracted in excess of the environmental clearance.

 We were handed over some sample show cause notices (about 12) issued in

 September and October 2017 and the figures are quite staggering – the

 demand raised being about Rs. 1500 crores! Similarly, from the Summary

 of Mining Audit Report submitted by the auditors (and handed over to us by

 the learned Additional Solicitor General – for the period July 2016 to

 December 2016) the amount demanded (including interest) by the State of

 Goa from the mining lease holders through show cause notices issued is

 about Rs. 1500 crores! And without making any serious attempt to recover

 such huge amounts, the State of Goa has granted second renewal of mining S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 91 of 101 leases and the MoEF played ball by lifting the abeyance order in respect of

 the environment clearances. The inferences that can be drawn are quite

 obvious. 138. We must emphasise that issues impacting society are required to be

 looked at holistically and not in a disaggregated manner. An overall

 perspective is necessary on such issues including issues that impact on the

 environment and the people of a community or a region or the State. It is

 for this reason that it is necessary to look at them broadly otherwise if that

 broader perspective is lost everyone will be a loser and no one will be a real

 beneficiary. One or two violations here and there may be wished away as

 inconsequential, but multiple violations by several persons can result in

 serious problems. As the novelist and philosopher Ayn Rand had said: We

 can evade reality, but we cannot evade the consequences of evading reality.

 Therefore, there is no doubt that the Mineral Policy, the Grant of Mining

 Leases Policy, the amendment to the MMDR Act , the report of the EAC and

 the report of the Expert Committee must be considered in the larger context

 of constitutionalism, the rule of law, environmental jurisprudence as well as

 the fundamental right of the people of Goa to have clean air and

 protection of the fragile ecology. Governance cannot and should not be

 carried out de hors the interests of the people and some uncomfortable S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 92 of 101 decisions may be inevitable for balancing the equities. 139. Finally, a controversy (wholly unnecessary in our view) was raised

 with regard to the period of validity of the environmental clearance granted

 under EIA 1994. Firstly, in the view that we have taken, the validity period

 of an environmental clearance under EIA 1994 is academic since a fresh

 environmental clearance was necessary at the time of renewal of a lease.

 Secondly, the period of validity of an environmental clearance was

 considered in M.C. Mehta and it was clearly held that it is valid for 5 years

 only. In paragraph 77 of the Report it was observed: 140. It was submitted that all relevant notifications on the subject had not

 been placed before the Court and hence an erroneous conclusion was arrived

 at with respect to EIA 1994. We propose to deal with the notifications

 placed before us. 141. The notification of 27th January, 1994 (EIA 1994) deals with site

 clearance in paragraph 2.II(d). This provides, inter alia, that site clearance

 will be granted for a mining operation by the Central Government and that

 site clearance will be valid for a period of five years for commencing the

 operation or mining. Paragraphs 2.III(a) and 2.III(c) of the notification deal

 with the procedure for obtaining environmental clearance, but do not provide

 for the validity period of the environmental clearance. 142. A notification of 4th May, 1994 refers to the notification of 27th

 January, 1994 and substitutes paragraph 2.III(c) therein and provides that the

 environmental clearance “shall be valid for a period of five years from

 commencement of the construction or operation.” What this provides,

 therefore, is that if environmental clearance is granted on a particular date

 and the mining operation starts on a later date, then the validity of the

 environmental clearance commences from the later date and is valid for five

 years from that date. This was reiterated in the notification of 10 th April, S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 94 of 101 1997. 143. The validity of an environmental clearance is specifically provided for

 in EIA 2006 in paragraph 9 thereof. As far as we are concerned, it provides

 that in respect of mining operations, the environmental clearance would be

 valid for the “project life as estimated by Expert Appraisal Committee or

 State Level Expert Appraisal Committee subject to a maximum of thirty

 years for mining projects….”. 144. For no apparent reason and after EIA 2006, the issue of the validity of

 an environmental clearance granted under EIA 1994 was raked up and a

 notification was issued by the MoEF on 21st August, 2013 in which it was

 noted that the notification of 4th May, 1994 provided that “the clearance

 granted shall be valid for a period of five years from commencement of the

 construction or operation”. Another notification of 21st August, 2013 goes

 on to say that the intent of the Central Government has been and has always

 been that the validity of the environmental clearance is for five years “for”

 commencement of the construction or operation and not that the

 environment clearance is only for five years “from” the commencement of

 construction or operation. Therefore, the Central Government clarified in the

 notification of 21st August, 2013 that the expression “for a period of five

 years” shall mean “for a period of five years for commencement of the S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 95 of 101 construction or operation and not five years from commencement of the

 construction or operation.” We do not see how this controversy really arises

 or its relevance to the present case, but we refer to it since submissions were

 made to explain the distinction between “for” five years and “from” five

 years in respect of the validity of an environmental clearance. 145. It is perhaps sought to be contended that if environmental clearance is

 granted and mining operations commence within the five year period, then

 the environmental clearance under EIA 1994 is valid till the project or the

 mining lease period is over. We cannot see how such an inference can be

 drawn. Moreover, this submission overlooks the decisions in M.C. Mehta

 and Common Cause which accept the view that the validity of an

 environmental clearance granted under EIA 1994 is only five years as also

 the view that a valid environmental clearance is necessary for the renewal of

 a mining lease. No notification of the MoEF can overrule decisions of this

 Court. As far as EIA 2006 is concerned this submission is academic and

 not relevant since paragraph 9 of EIA 2006 provides that the environmental

 clearance would be valid for the estimated project life subject to a maximum

 of 30 years. 146. Learned counsel for the mining lease holders also relied upon a S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 96 of 101 decision of the Delhi High Court in S. N. Mohanty v. Union of India40 to

 contend that notwithstanding a notification issued by MoEF on 4 th April,

 2011 it was not obligatory for a mining lease holder to obtain a fresh

 environmental clearance at the time of renewal of a lease, if the

 environmental clearance was subsisting. In that case, the petitioner had an

 environmental clearance obtained under EIA 2006 on 15th January, 2007 and

 the first renewal of the mining lease was due on 2 nd April, 2012. In that

 context, it was submitted that it was not necessary for the petitioner to obtain

 environmental clearance for renewal of the mining lease. The Delhi High

 Court took the view that: “… if a person has a valid and subsisting EC

 [environmental clearance] at the point of time he seeks a renewal of the

 mining lease, he would still be required to obtain another EC prior to the

 grant of renewal by the respondents. That, in our view, is not the intent and

 purport of the Supreme Court directions in M.C. Mehta.” This question

 does not arise in the context of EIA 1994. 147. One final submission before us was that these cases be referred to a

 Bench of 9 learned judges since the constitutional validity of the Goa,

 Daman & Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition & Declaration of Mining

 Leases) Act, 1987 was under challenge in some cases and the decision in 40 2012 SCC OnLine Del 4000 S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 97 of 101 those cases would perhaps render the present proceedings infructuous. In

 some of these pending cases, this Court had passed an order on 29 th October,

 2002 to await the decision of 9 learned judges in Property Owners’

 Association v. State of Maharashtra.41 We are not at all inclined to accept

 this request and mention it only to reject it. Correctness of the decision of the High Court in Lithoferro 148. As far as the SLPs are concerned (SLP (C) No. 32138 of 2015 and

 SLP (C) Nos. 32699-32727 of 2015) we set aside the judgment and order

 dated 13th August, 2014 of the High Court in view of our conclusion that the

 State of Goa was required to grant fresh licences in terms of the decision of

 this Court in Goa Foundation. The High Court proceeded on the erroneous

 basis that it could direct the State of Goa to grant a second renewal of the

 mining leases notwithstanding the direction in Goa Foundation.

 Conclusions and directions 149. In view of our discussion, we arrive at the following conclusions: The second renewal of the mining leases granted by the State of

 Goa is liable to be set aside and is quashed. 4. The Ministry of Environment and Forest was obliged to grant

 fresh environmental clearances in respect of fresh grant of

 mining leases in accordance with law and the decision of this

 Court in Goa Foundation and not merely lift the abeyance

 order of 14th September, 2012. 5. The decision of the Bombay High Court in Lithoferro v. State

 of Goa (and batch) giving directions different from those given

 by this Court in Goa Foundation is set aside. 6. The mining lease holders who have been granted the second S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 99 of 101 renewal in violation of the decision and directions of this Court

 in Goa Foundation are given time to manage their affairs and

 may continue their mining operations till 15th March, 2018.

 However, they are directed to stop all mining operations with

 effect from 16th March, 2018 until fresh mining leases (not

 fresh renewals or other renewals) are granted and fresh

 environmental clearances are granted. 7. The State of Goa should take all necessary steps to grant fresh

 mining leases in accordance with the provisions of the Mines

 and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 . The

 Ministry of Environment and Forest should also take all

 necessary steps to grant fresh environmental clearances to those

 who are successful in obtaining fresh mining leases. The

 exercise should be completed by the State of Goa and the

 Ministry of Environment and Forest as early as reasonably

 practicable. 8. The State of Goa will take all necessary steps to ensure that the

 Special Investigation Team and the team of Chartered

 Accountants constituted pursuant to the Goa Grant of Mining

 Leases Policy 2014 give their report at the earliest and the State S.L.P. (C) No. 32138 of 2015 etc. Page 100 of 101 of Goa should implement the reports at the earliest, unless there

 are very good reasons for rejecting them. 9. The State of Goa will take all necessary steps to expedite

 recovery of the amounts said to be due from the mining lease

 holders pursuant to the show cause notices issued to them and

 pursuant to other reports available with the State of Goa

 including the report of Special Investigation Team and the team

 of Chartered Accountants. 150. The writ petitions and SLPs are disposed of in accordance with the

 above conclusions and directions.