Vide this judgment, the above mentioned three Crl. Appeal No. 426-DB of 2008 - 2- Crl. Appeal No. 439-DB of 2008
Crl. Appeal No. 1203-DB of 2011

appeals would be disposed of as these have arisen out of the

common incident/judgment. Inspector Gurdarshan Singh sent a ruqa to Police

Station Sangat on 26.8.2005 at 11.10 A.M. stating therein that

he was present on main road bus stand in the revenue limits of

village Doomwali along with other police officials. He had received

a secret information that Mastan Singh alias Mana alias Haji and

Major Singh had formed an international gang for bringing

counterfeit currency, narcotic substances and weapons in bulk

from Pakistan to supply the same to bad elements in northern

India. The said persons would be crossing the border of Bathinda

in Santro Car No. DL-1CH-6713. On the basis of the said ruqa, formal FIR No. 117 dated 26.8.2005 was registered under Section 489-A , 489-B , 489-C of the Indian Penal Code (' IPC ' for short) and 25 of the Arms Act, 1959 and Section 18 , 22 Narcotics and Psychotropic

Substances Act, 1985 ('Act' for short) at Police Station, Sangat

by Assistant Sub Inspector Harbans Singh. Thereafter, Inspector Gurdarshan Singh along with

other police officials held a picket near Nar Singh Colony at some

distance from the main road. At about 12.15 P.M., Santro Car

No. DL-1CH-6713 came from Dabwali side. The said car was

signaled to stop. On inquiry, the driver disclosed his name as

Major Singh whereas the other person, sitting by the side of the

driver, disclosed his name as Mastan Singh. On personal search

of Mastan Singh counterfeit currency notes to the tune of

` 1,00,000/- i.e. 200 notes in denomination of ` 500/- each were

recovered. The said currency notes were put in an envelope and Crl. Appeal No. 426-DB of 2008 - 3- Crl. Appeal No. 439-DB of 2008
Crl. Appeal No. 1203-DB of 2011

the same was sealed with seal bearing impression 'GS'. The

numbers of the currency notes were also noted down and these

were taken in possession vide memo Ex. PW4/A. Sample seal

was separately prepared. On personal search of accused Major Singh,

counterfeit currency notes to the tune of ` 67,000/- i.e. in the

denomination of ` 500/- each were recovered from his shirt

pocket. The currency notes were put in an envelope and was

sealed with sealed bearing impression 'GS'. The numbers of the

counterfeit currency notes were noted down and were taken in

possession vide memo Ex. PW4/B.

 The accused were arrested after disclosing to them

the grounds of arrest. On interrogation, both the accused

disclosed qua involvement of accused Santokh Singh who had

contacted them on mobile phone. They further disclosed that

Santokh Singh was standing at the bus stand. On pointing out

by the accused Major Singh and Mastan Singh, accused Santokh

Singh was apprehended. On personal search of accused Santokh

Singh, one counterfeit currency note of ` 500/- was recovered .

The same was taken in possession vide memo Ex. PW4/G after

making it into a sealed envelope with seal bearing impression

'GS'. Accused Santokh Singh was arrested after disclosing to

him the grounds of arrest. On 03.9.2005, during interrogation, accused suffered

disclosure statements. Accused Mastan Singh stated that he

had kept concealed one packet of one kilogram heroin and

offered to get the same recovered. On the basis of the said

statement, reduced into writing, he got recovered heroin from the Crl. Appeal No. 426-DB of 2008 - 4- Crl. Appeal No. 439-DB of 2008
Crl. Appeal No. 1203-DB of 2011

disclosed place. During interrogation, accused Major Singh suffered a

disclosure statement that he had kept concealed 500 grams of

heroin and offered to get the same recovered. On the basis of the

said statement, reduced into writing, he got recovered half

kilogram heroin from the disclosed place. Accused Santokh Singh also suffered a disclosure

statement during interrogation and offered to get recovered half

kilogram of heroin from the disclosed place. On the basis of the

statement of the said accused, reduced into writing, he got

recovered half kilogram heroin from the disclosed place. Out of the heroin, recovered on the basis of the

disclosure statements suffered by the accused, two samples of 10

grams each were drawn. The samples as well as the remaining

heroin, recovered from each of the accused, were made into

sealed parcels. On 04.9.2005, all the three accused along with the

case property were produced before the Chief Judicial

Magistrate, Bathinda and the following order was passed:- are intact. 10 gm of heroin is taken out of each bulk

 parcel containing bulk heroin. Sample parcels and

 remaining heroin 970 gm. and two parcels of 470 gm.

 each is sealed with seal in this Court bearing

 impression 'GS' 'RM' CJM. Photographs of the parcel

 have been taken by Naib Singh of Mehboob Studio, Crl. Appeal No. 426-DB of 2008 - 5- Crl. Appeal No. 439-DB of 2008
Crl. Appeal No. 1203-DB of 2011

 Court Road, Bathinda. Sample of 10 grams and

 parcel sealed with seal bearing impression 'GS' and

 remaining heroin 970 gm. and two parcels of 470 gm.

 each are allowed to be disposed of under Section 52

 (A) of NDPS Act prescribing the manner for disposal

 of case property as per circular order No. 9 dt

 A.D.G.P. Crime, Punjab, dated 31.5.2001 relating to

 the functions of Drugs Disposal Committee."

 The case property was deposited with Incharge, NDPS

Godown, Bathinda by Inspector Gurdarshan Singh. He retained

three sample parcels bearing seal impression 'GS' and three

sample parcels, drawn out vide court orders, bearing seal

impression 'RM' CJM, in his safe custody in the police station. On 07.9.2005, Inspector Gurdarshan Singh sent

above said six samples to Chemical Examiner, Patiala through

Head Constable Raghvir Singh and he deposited the same on

09.9.2005. On receipt of report of chemical examiner and

completion of other formalities, challan was presented against

the accused. During trial, prosecution examined 06 witnesses in

order to prove its case. After the close of prosecution evidence, appellant

Mastan Singh when examined under Section 313 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure, 1973 (' Cr.P.C .' for short), pleaded as under:- Appellant Major Singh when examined under Section

313 Cr.P.C., pleaded as under:- Appellant Santokh Singh when examined under Section 313 Cr.P.C., pleaded as under:- The appellants examined 07 witnesses in their

defence. The trial court vide judgment/order dated

04.6.2008/06.6.2008 convicted and sentenced the appellants for

commission of offence under Section 22 of the Act and 489-B,

489-C/34 IPC . It has been submitted on behalf of the appellants by

their counsels that prosecution had failed to prove its case. The

appellants had been falsely involved in this case. There was no

report from the Government Press that the currency notes were

fake. The prosecution had failed to establish the ownership of Crl. Appeal No. 426-DB of 2008 - 10- Crl. Appeal No. 439-DB of 2008
Crl. Appeal No. 1203-DB of 2011

the car and how it had come in possession of the appellants. The

appellants had not been apprised of their right before their

search that they could get the search effected in the presence of

a gazetted officer or a Magistrate. Independent witness Bhola

Singh, who was a stock witness of the prosecution, had not been

examined during trial. The investigating officer had failed to

deposit the case property in the malkhana. The recovery of

contraband had been falsely foisted on the appellants as the

same had been effected from an open and accessible place with

no identification mark. No information had been sent to the

superior officers qua receipt of secret information against the

appellants. Head Constable Raghvir Singh, who had taken the

samples for chemical analysis, had retained the same with

himself for two days without any explanation. Only one sample

seal had been prepared at the spot. Learned State counsel, on the other hand, has

submitted that heavy recovery of fake currency had been effected

from the appellants Major Singh and Mastan Singh. On the

basis of their statements, appellant Santokh Singh was

apprehended. During interrogation, all the appellants suffered

disclosure statements and got recovered heavy quantity of

heroin. The appellants were professional criminal and had

stored contraband at different places. After hearing the learned counsels for the appellants

and the learned State counsel and going through the record

available on the file carefully, we are of the opinion that the

instant appeals deserve dismissal. In the present case, Inspector Gurdarshan Singh had Crl. Appeal No. 426-DB of 2008 - 11- Crl. Appeal No. 439-DB of 2008
Crl. Appeal No. 1203-DB of 2011

sent a ruqa on 26.8.2005 at 11.10 A.M. for registration of FIR to

the police station on receipt of secret information that appellants

Mastan Singh and Major Singh were travelling in a car carrying

counterfeit currency notes, narcotic substance and weapons.

Thereafter, a picket was held in Nar Singh Colony, village

Doomwali. At about 12.15 P.M., appellants Mastan Singh and

Major Singh were apprehended while travelling in Santro Car

No. DL-1CH-6713. The car was being driven by appellant Major

Singh and appellant Mastan Singh was sitting on the seat next to

that of the driver. On search, 200 counterfeit currency notes in

the denomination of ` 500/- were recovered from appellant

Mastan Singh and 134 counterfeit currency notes in the

denomination of ` 500/- were recovered from appellant Major

Singh. On their statements, appellant Santokh Singh was

apprehended from the bus stand and from him, one counterfeit

currency note in the denomination of ` 500/- was recovered. PW-2 Sham Sunder Bhatia deposed that on

24.10.2005, while posted as Deputy Manager (Cash) with State

Bank of India, Bathinda, he had checked 335 notes in the

denomination of ` 500/- produced before him by the police of

Police Station Sangat along with an application. On checking the

said notes, he found that they were not genuine and he gave his

report in this regard Ex. PW2/B.

 PW-6 Sub Inspector Ajit Singh deposed that on

24.10.2005, he had approached Chief Manager, State Bank of

India, Bathinda for getting the information qua genuineness of

the currency notes in question. Thus, as per PW-2, the currency notes recovered from Crl. Appeal No. 426-DB of 2008 - 12- Crl. Appeal No. 439-DB of 2008
Crl. Appeal No. 1203-DB of 2011

the appellants were found to be fake. A perusal of the record

reveals that the currency notes were duly sent to the Press for

opinion qua their genuineness. Currency Note Press, Nashik

Road (Maharashtra State) vide report dated 27.9.2006 reported

that the suspected notes were counterfeit notes. The reasons

given were that the main water mark, security thread were

imitated. The thickness of the paper was more than genuine note

paper. Ink shades did not match with the printing colours. The

colour registration was not correct. The numbering was also not

as per genuine note. The said report could have been led in

evidence without examining the concerned officer as per Section

292 Cr.P.C. The prosecution has either deliberately or due to

inadvertence failed to exhibit the report of the printing press on

record though it was a very material document. Since the report

is available on the file, the same can be taken in consideration to

substantiate the testimony of PW-2. Thus, the learned trial court

rightly held that the appellants were found in possession of

heavy fake currency notes for using the same as genuine. During interrogation, on 03.9.2005, the appellants

suffered disclosure statements and got recovered heroin from the

disclosed places. Appellant Major Singh got recovered half

kilogram of heroin from the disclosed place whereas appellant

Mastan Singh got recovered one kilogram of heroin from the

disclosed place. Appellant Santokh Singh got recovered half

kilogram of heroin from the disclosed place. The appellants

along with the recovered heroin were produced before the Chief

Judicial Magistrate on the next day i.e. 04.9.2005. The Chief

Judicial Magistrate drew another sample of 10 grams contraband Crl. Appeal No. 426-DB of 2008 - 13- Crl. Appeal No. 439-DB of 2008
Crl. Appeal No. 1203-DB of 2011

from each parcel of recovered heroin and ordered that the

remaining bulk case property be disposed of as per rules.

Inspector Gurdarshan Singh has deposed that he had deposited

the bulk heroin with Incharge, NDPS Godown, Bathinda and had

kept the sample parcels in his safe custody. On 07.9.2005, he

gave these sample parcels to Head Constable Raghvir Singh for

depositing the same with the Chemical Examiner, Patiala and he

deposited the same on 09.9.2005. In this regard, PW-1 Raghvir

Singh has tendered his affidavit as Ex. PA. Ex. PW-5/L is the report of the chemical laboratory.

A perusal of the same reveals that these samples were received

by it on 09.9.2005 with seals intact. Three samples weighing 10

grams were bearing seal impressions 'GS' whereas three parcels

weighing 10 grams each were sealed with seal bearing

impressions 'RM/CJM. After examining the samples, information

was given by Assistant Chemical Examiner to Punjab

Government, Patiala that the contents of the six samples were

heroin. Thus, the samples which had been drawn by the

Magistrate, were sent for chemical analysis to the laboratory and

it was reported after examination by the said laboratory that the

contents of the said samples were heroin. Since the samples

were received in the laboratory with seals intact, it rules out the

possibility that the same had been tampered with. The fact that

the samples were deposited by PW-1 Raghvir Singh after two

days does not lead to the inference that they had been tampered

with. Ex. PA is the affidavit of PW-1 Head Constable Raghvir

Singh wherein he has deposed that till the parcels remained in

his possession, he did not allow anybody to tamper with the Crl. Appeal No. 426-DB of 2008 - 14- Crl. Appeal No. 439-DB of 2008
Crl. Appeal No. 1203-DB of 2011

same. The police officials were acting in discharge of their

official duties and had no reason to falsely involve the appellants

in this case as they had no ill will or enmity against them. It is

well settled that the statements of the witnesses are not to be

doubted or discarded merely on the basis of their official status.

In case the statements of the witnesses inspire confidence, they

can be relied upon without seeking any independent

corroboration. Since no contraband was recovered from the

appellants at the time of their apprehension, the fact that their

consent for their search as required under Section 50 of the Act

was not taken, loses its significance. In the present case, the

contraband was got recovered by the appellants on the basis of

their disclosure statements on 03.9.2005 though the recovery of

counterfeit currency notes was effected from the appellants on

26.8.2005. Bhola Singh was joined during recovery of heroin on

the basis of disclosure statements suffered by the appellants but

he was not examined as a witness during trial and was given up

as having been won over by the accused on 12.12.2007. The

statement of PW-5 investigating officer qua recovery of heroin on

the basis of disclosure statements suffered by the appellants, is

duly corroborated by PW-3 Assistant Sub Inspector Sukhpal

Singh. The statement of the said witnesses are trustworthy and

inspire confidence. There is no reason to discard their

testimonies qua recovery of heroin from the appellants on the

basis of their disclosure statements. Crl. Appeal No. 439-DB of 2008
Crl. Appeal No. 1203-DB of 2011

 In the present case, the recoveries were effected from

open places which were accessible to all and as such, provisions

of Section 42 of the Act are not applicable to the facts of the

present case. There is also no force in the argument raised by

learned counsels for the appellants that the places from where

the recoveries were alleged to have been effected were not

identifiable. The appellants had kept concealed the contraband

recovered on the basis of their disclosure statements. The said

places of recovery were pointed out by the appellants. The fact

that no mark of identification had been fixed on the place of

recovery fails to advance the case of the appellants. It appears

that the appellants were professional criminals and had kept the

contraband hidden in open places to their exclusive knowledge

and the contraband was got recovered by them on the basis of

their disclosure statements suffered by them during

interrogation. There is also no force in the argument raised by the

learned counsels for the appellants that only one sample seal

had been proved on record and the said fact was fatal to the

prosecution case. PW-5, in his cross examination, admitted that

sample seal relating to recovery of accused Santokh Singh and

Major Singh were not available on the file. This lapse, in itself, is

not fatal to the prosecution case which is otherwise duly proved

on record. The recoveries of counterfeit currency notes as well as

heroin stand duly proved on record by the official witnesses. The

accused were produced before the Magistrate along with the

recovered heroin and samples were again drawn from each

parcel of heroin by the Magistrate to rule out the possibility of Crl. Appeal No. 426-DB of 2008 - 16- Crl. Appeal No. 439-DB of 2008
Crl. Appeal No. 1203-DB of 2011

tampering. In the present case, none of the appellants claimed

ownership qua the car in question nor anybody got the car

released on sapurdari. Vide order dated 06.6.2008, the trial

court ordered that the car be confiscated to the state. In the

facts and circumstances of the present case, the fact that the

investigating agency had failed to collect evidence qua ownership

of the car, is not fatal to the prosecution case as the prosecution

case is duly established on record qua transportation of

counterfeit currency notes by the appellants Major Singh and

Mastan Singh in the said car. DW-1 Surjit Singh deposed that Santokh Singh was

running a tractor repair workshop and on 26.8.2005, he had got

his tractor repaired from him. At that time Balwant Singh, Des

Singh, Jagdish Singh Panch were also present there. Santokh

Singh was taken away by the police at 5.00 P.M. DW-2 Balwant

Singh has corroborated the statement of DW-1. The statements

of the said witness fail to advance the case of appellants as the

said witnesses had not moved any application to higher

authorities qua false involvement of the appellant Santokh Singh

nor have been able to prove any record qua repair of the tractor

by the appellant Santokh Singh on 26.8.2005. It appears that

they have deposed in favour of appellant Santokh Singh being his

co-villagers. DW-3 Thakur Singh deposed that on 26.8.05, he was

travelling in a bus to Dabwali along with Major Singh and Sohan

Lal alias Soni. At 9.00 A.M., Major Singh was apprehended by

the police. DW-4 Sohan Lal alias Soni has corroborated the Crl. Appeal No. 426-DB of 2008 - 17- Crl. Appeal No. 439-DB of 2008
Crl. Appeal No. 1203-DB of 2011

statement of DW-3. However, the statements of the said

witnesses fail to rebut the statements of the prosecution

witnesses as the said witnesses had not approached the higher

authorities qua false involvement of the appellant Major Singh.

It appears that they have deposed in favour of appellant Major

Singh being his co-villagers. DW-5 Darshan Singh is the brother of appellant Major

Singh and has deposed that he had come to know from Thakur

Singh that his brother had been taken away by the police.

However, the said witness also did not move any written

application to any higher police official qua false involvement of

his brother. It appears that he has deposed in favour of

appellant Major Singh being his brother. Thus, the prosecution has been successful in proving

its case and, hence, there is no force in the arguments raised by

the learned counsels for the appellants. The learned trial court

had rightly convicted and sentenced the appellants vide the

impugned judgment/order dated 04.6.2008/06.6.2008. No ground for interference is made out. Accordingly, all the three appeals are dismissed.