The instant three appeals pertain to two assessees,
S/Shri Tarun Kumar Goyal and Arun Kumar Goyal for
AYs.2014-15 & 2016-17. The former assessee's appeals ITA
Nos.456 & 457/Hyd/2020 arise against the CIT(A)-11,
Hyderabad's separate orders, both dated 31-01-2020
(AYs.2014-15 & 2016-17) passed in case Nos.10252 &
10255/2018-19 followed by a latter assessee's appeal ITA
No.458/Hyd/2020 for AY.2016-17 directed against the very
CIT(A)'s order; of even date, passed in case No.10253/2018-19,
involving proceedings u/s.143(3) r.w.s.153 A of the Income Tax
Act, 1961 [in short, 'the Act']; (in all cases), respectively. Heard both the parties. Case files perused. :- 2 -: 2. We proceed appeal-wise for the sake of convenience and
brevity. The former assessee's in appeal ITA No.456/Hyd/2020
challenges correctness of both the lower authorities' action
treating his long term capital gain claim of Rs.73,89,650/- as
bogus alongwith 30% alleged commission charges thereupon
to the tune of Rs.2,21,690/-; respectively. The CIT(A)'s detailed
discussion confirming the Assessing Officer's action to this
effect reads as under: 3. The AO erred in the transactions which are routed through proper
banking channels and in appreciating the fact that assessee traded
the c01nl1wdities through recognized stock exchange: Rajgharana Commodities Trade Pvt. Ltd, registered member of
MCX/NCDEX that it is to submit that the Stock Broker had issued the
contract note in proper form giving settlement number, trade time,
trade number, amount of CIT and other details. The assessee also
received the payment relating to the Commodities Sold from the
broker after deduction of CTT. Once the transaction is routed through
a registered broker in a recognized commodities exchange (MCX/NCD
EX) with due suffering of CTT and which are also duly covered by the
requisite documentation, the genuineness and credibility of the same
cannot be questioned. The assessee had duly shown that transaction
were done through banking channels right from purchase to sale of
commodities and all the transaction have been routed through DMAT
account sold in the MCX/NCDEX as per quoted price as on that date
(Copy of the documents are enclosed vide paper book page no.17-
72,131132). 7.3. Further it would be submitted that the documents relating to
purchase and sale of commodities have neither been controverter nor
disproved by the assessing officer. The A.O. merely on the basis of
information from investigation wing and without any corroborative
evidence nor making any enquiry further for the justification of
additions. The report of Investigation wing could not be sole ground to
implicate assessee and justify additions especially when, nowhere
assessee had been found to be beneficiary of any kind of
accommodation entry in. any inquiry by Investigation Wing or any
such material had been unearthed by department in the course of
search operation. It would be the responsibility of the broker to ensure that the
transaction is properly routed and CTT was paid as per stock
exchange norms. It was also stated that in the secondary market
transactions, no one knows who the buyer is and who the seller of
the commodities is. When the assessee sold his commodities, several
other persons also transacted in these commodities on MCX/NCDEX
at prices similar to the price at which the assessee sold his holding. :- 4 -: • Decision of Hon'ble Calcutta ITAT in the case of Vidhi Malhotra Vs
ITO [2019] 101 taxmann.cont 361 (Delhi - Trib.) where in it was held
that- • Decision of Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in tile, case of CIT vs Carbo
Industrial Holdings Ltd reported in 244 JTR 422 (Cal) wherein it was
held
"The Tribunal allowed the claim on the ground that full details of the
transactions as also the names and addresses of the brokers having
been furnished, the assessee's claim could not be denied on the basis
of mere suspicion regarding genuineness of the transactions," 8. Wrongful disallowance of Long Term Capital Gains and making
addition u/s.68 of Rs.73,89,650/-(Ground 13-14,16,18): Once the transaction is routed through a registered broker in a
recognized stock exchange (BSE) with due suffering of STT and which
are also duly covered by the requisite documentation, the
genuineness and credibility of the same cannot be questioned. The
assessee had duly shown that transaction were done through
banking channels right from purchase to sale of shares and all the
transaction have been routed through DMAT account sold in the
Bombay Stock Exchange as per quoted price as 011 that date (Copy
of the documents are enclosed vide paper book page no.73-128,131- 132). 8.3. Further it would be submitted that the documents relating to
purchase and sale of shares have neither been controverter nor
disproved by the assessing officer. The A.O. merely on the basis of
information from investigation wing and without any corroborative
evidence nor making any enquiry further for the justification of
additions. The report of Investigation wing could not be sale ground to
implicate assessee and justify additions especially when, nowhere
assessee had been found to be beneficiary of any kind of
accommodation entry in any inquiry by Investigation Wing or any
such material had been unearthed by department in the course of
search operation. :- 8 -: • Decision of Hon'ble Calcutta IT AT in the case of Vidhi Malhotra Vs
ITO [2019] 101 taxmann.com 361 (Delhi - Trib.) where in it was held
that- :- 10 -:  Identity
  Creditworthiness and
  Genuineness of transaction. In the present case, AO has made an addition of Rs. 73,89,650/-
towards unexplained investment u/s 68 of the act, even though all
the above mentioned conditions are satisfied. 8.7. We would like to place our reliance on the following case laws ;- • KLR Industries Limited vs DCIT 1480/Hyd/2014, judgment of
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India :- 8.8. Further it is to submit that, when the Assessing Officer has not
brought any material on record to show that the assessee has paid
over and above the purchase consideration as claimed and evident
from the bank account then, in the absence of any evidence it cannot
be held that the assessee has introduced his own unaccounted
money by way of bogus long-term capital gain. 8.9. It is also brought on record for your kind reference that SEBI vide
its order dated 21st September 2017 has revoked the ban on Kailash
Auto Finance Ltd. Para 5 of the said order reads as under And vide para 8 of the order there is direction of revocation. Thus,
SEBI also did not find any prima facie material for manipulation of
price of scrip of Kailash Auto Finance Limited. Further it is to submit
that if A.O. has found that scrip was used for accommodation entry
then he should have independently enquired prima facie that whether
assessee's name was too involved in the buyers of accommodated
entries. It is to submit that once SEBI has held that there was no
adverse material or evidence to show that the scrip was manipulated
and restraint of trade on same has been revoked, it is to observe that
the share prices have been deduced genuinely and shares have been
sold for genuinely quoted price and thus sale proceeds of the same as
accounted in the books of accounts stands explained.
8.10. Further it is to submit that merely on the statement of some
third party who the assessee never knew even and as the statement
of the third party was recorded behind the back of the assessee and
toas never allowed to cross examine nor it was furnished to the
assessee, the same cannot be relied upon and can be used against
the assessee. Even if presuming statements do have adverse
inference against the assessee, they cannot be relied upon and in
support of these view reliance is placed 011 the Hon'ble Supreme
Court Judgement of Andaman Timber Industries in Civil Appeal No.
4228 of 2006. :- 12 -: Ground No.20: 9. Non-Opportunity for Cross Examination of Witness : The back ground of the companies where investigation is made, their
promoters, operators in the shares of the aba e companies are not
only relevant but have to be considered to understand the real nature
of the transactions undertaken by the appellant. The manipulation in
the price of shares of these companies is well established. The series
of transactions in the above scrip which were indulged in to bring
unexplained money into the books of account in a camouflaged way
is very well documented in series of cases. 6.3) The Hon'ble ITAT, Pune Bench in their order in ITA Nos. 1648 to
1652/PUN/2015, dt.04.01.2019 in the case of Rajkumar B. Agarwal
Vs. DCIT dealt with the issue of capital gains on sale of shares of
M s.Prraneta Industries Ltd. held as under: 2005 to 07-07-2005. The entire position which thus emerges is that
PIL is a penny stock company, which fact got established from
enquiries conducted by BSE and SEBI. Not only the DSP shares and
Securities Ltd. and Galaxy Braking Ltd. were fined for manipulating
the prices of shares of PILI even the broker from whom the assessee
allegedly purchased the shares was suspended and debarred from
acting as a broker by SEBI and further the broker to whom such
shares were sold, was also warned by SEBI for manipulating the
prices of different shares during the relevant period. There is doubt
that the assessee completed paper-trail by producing contract notes
for the purchase and sale of shares of PIL. In our considered opinion,
mere furnishing of contract notes etc. and more specifically when
seen in the background of the above noted facts, does not inspire any
confidence and cannot be a ground to delete an addition, which is
otherwise made on the solid bedrock of detailed enquiries. 6.4) At this juncture, it will not be out of place to refer to the judgment
of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in CIT vs. Durga Prasad More (1971) 82
ITR 540 (sq, in which the assessee claimed before the ITO that
 :- 14 -: tax as the income of the assessee of that previous year if the
explanation offered by the assessee about the nature and source
thereof is, in the opinion of the Assessing Officer, not satisfactory. In
deciding the issue against the issue, their Lordships held that: 6.7) considering the fact that the facts and circumstances of the case
are similar. it is held that the Assessing Officer rightly concluded that
the claim of exemption u/s.10(38) to be incorrect and correctly
assessed the income u/s.68 . Further. the manipulations as brought
out above Involves payment of commission also. The addition on
account of commission is also confirmed. The grounds raised are
rejected". 3. Both the lower authorities' case in nutshell is that the
impugned capital gains claimed at assessee's behest are very
much bogus as per the departmental investigation indicating
much a bigger picture pinpointing scrip price(s)' rigging in
collusion with entry operators based in various cities. The
assessee's plea on the other hand as per its detailed paper
book running into 132 pages is based on voluminous evidence
i.e., ledger copies in the books of M/s.Rajgharana
Commodities Trade Pvt. Ltd., for AY.2013-14, contract notes of
sales and purchase copies with the very party similar evidence
with M/s.Hse Securities Limited for AY.2013-14, their ledger
copies followed by transactions done through banking channel
only. There is no rebuttal to all this voluminous evidence
coming from Revenue side during the course of hearing. It
 :- 16 -: However, this is quite different from the factual matrix at hand.
Similarly, the case of Sumati Dayal v. CIT (supra) too turns on its own
specific facts. The above-stated cases, thus, are of no assistance to
the case sought to be canvassed by the Revenue. 13. The learned
ITAT, being the last fact-finding authority, on the basis of the
evidence brought on record, has rightly come to the conclusion that
the lower tax authorities are not able to sustain the addition without
any cogent material on record. We thus find no perversity in the
Impugned Order. 14. In this view of the matter, no question of law,
much less a substantial question of law arises for our consideration". 3.1. We adopt the lordships above detailed reasoning mutatis
mutandis and hold that both the lower authorities have erred
in law and on facts in treating assessee's long term capital
gain as bogus ones in absence of any supportive evidence in
their support; whatsoever. The impugned addition(s) qua both
aspects (supra) are directed to be deleted. This former appeal ITA No.456/Hyd/2020 is accepted. 4. Next comes both assessee's appeals ITA Nos.457 &
458/Hyd/2020 seeking to reverse the lower authorities'
identical action making the alleged un-explained un accounted
cash investment addition of Rs.6.40 Crores each in the nature
of on-money paid to M/s.Western Constructions. The CIT(A)'s
detailed discussion, affirming the Assessing Officer's action to
this effect reads as under: "5.2 I have considered the assessment order, facts of the case and
submissions of the case. The Ground no.4 raised is devoid of merit as
the time limit for issue of notice u/s.143(2) for· the original return filed
has not expired and the assessment stood abated on account of
Search. Since this assessment after the abatement of proceedings in
respect of original return, the contentions raised by the appellant are
not applicable to the facts of the case. Further the following factual
position emerges from the perusal of the order and the submissions of
the assessee. i) During the course of Search the material seized was confronted to
the appellant and the appellant explained the contents of the same. ii) The developer and the appellant (who is buyer) both have accepted
the contents of the material seized during the course of Search. iii) The developer has accepted receipt of such cash arid offered the
same to tax by way of filing the return of income after the Search
proceedings. iv) The appellant was not confused or under pressure as is made out
as a ground for retraction of the statement given under the oath. The
appellant clearly identified the entries gave explanation accepting
certain entries and certain other entries were not accepted. This
clearly shows that there was no such coercion or pressure as alleged.
The retraction of the statement given is not on sound logical basis but
only to evade the tax payable on the amount admitted as income. v) The statement of Mr. Sivarama Raju is only secondary. The basis
of addition is the documents found and the explanation of the
contents of such documents by the appellant and his family members
during the course of Search individually. vi) The legal contentions raised are not applicable as the facts of the
case are completely different as discussed above. This is not a case
where addition is made on the basis of document found and based
on third party statement. Here, the document was confronted to the
appellant during the Search itself, the contents of such papers were
explained by the appellant and the appellant also denied of certain
entries. The basis of addition is not third party statement but the
appellant's own statement explaining the entries in the material
seized which was confronted during the course of Search itself. vii) The basis for retraction as given atpara-2 of the affidavit are that
due to fatigue and sleeplessness I was not in a sound state of mind
....'. The reason above is not bonafide as can be seen from the
detailed statement given during the course of Search. The appellant
was able to identify the entries therein and explained the nature of
 :- 23 -: We now advert to the basic relevant facts. 5. The department had carried out the impugned search
dt.02-11-2016 in these twin assessee's cases namely Sri Tarun
Kumar Goyal and Sri Arun Kumar Goyal/vendees as well as
the vendor M/s.Western Constructions and other parties. The
same culminated in Section 153A proceedings initiated against
them. 6. Coming to the issue of on-money payment to the vendor,
M/s.Western Constructions, it is an admitted fact that the
purchase transaction is regarding commercial space
admeasuring 38,700 sft. (11th floor) of the Western Pearl
Project. The Revenue's case is that the impugned search has
found/seized the incriminating document 'No.A/GSR/02' in
the nature of an 'Excel' sheet. The assessing authority's
assessment order dt.28-12-2018 in pg.3 para 4 states that the
said Excel sheet revealed the assessee's vendor and Shri
Narendra Kumar Goyal's debit and credit entries followed by
registration of the sale deed in former's name only. The
Assessing Officer took note of the former assessee Shri Tarun
Kumar Goyal's statement dt.02-11-2016 u/s.132 of the Act
allegedly referring to a document recovered from Shri
S.Raju (partner of M/s.Western Constructions) during search
that the same sufficiently indicated details of the on-money
payment in issue. :- 24 -: 7. Learned CIT-DR invited our attention to the assessee's
reply in pg.4, Question No.19 that during the course of search
duly admitting his share of 50% on money followed by the
necessary clarification on the relevant transactions. The
Assessing Officer adopted the very course of action for the
latter assessee as well. He further observed that both these
statements had admitted the on-money component in issue.
This followed the assessees' retraction affidavit dt.03-01-2017
that there was no incriminating document found or seized
regarding the impugned cash sum and therefore, they did not
know anything about the incriminating material found/seized
from M/s.Western Constructions partners' premises. And that
Mr.Raju's statement had also not been made available to them.
He thus rejected all these contentions and made the impugned
identical addition on money payment of Rs.6.40 Crores each in
both of their hands as under: explaining the nature of payment of further additional receipts and
consequent proposal for acquiring additional space etc. from buyer
etc. In view-of this, assessee was requested to reconcile the same
with supporting explanation of sources / submissions so as to
consider the same as per provisions of IT Act during assessment
proceedings vide this office letter dated 17.12.2018. In response to
the same, assessees made following submissions. vide their letters
dated 21.12.2018 as submitted by both the assessees Shri Tarun
Kumar Goyal and Shri Arun Kumar Goyal. :- 30 -: 8. Suffice to say, the CIT(A) has rejected assessees' pleas
inter alia that the impugned search had not found or seized
any incriminating material since their alleged admission
(supra) had already retracted even if there were some evidence
against them which formed the basis of addition in the
recipients' than their hands, there was no cash component
involved in the commercial space's purchase, no cross-
examination of Shri Raju had been provided to them and that
the source of the purchase price was the loans obtained from
M/s.HDFC bank than any cash sum, respectively. This leaves
both the assessees aggrieved. 9. Learned authorised representative has filed a detailed
note inter alia reiterating the assessees' stand before the
CIT(A)'s qua the impugned money payment addition that the
 :- 33 -: 10. We have given our thoughtful consideration to rival
arguments. We find no reason to sustain the impugned
identical addition of money payment in cash addition in these
assessees' hands. It is an admitted fact that learned lower
authorities have gone by the alleged loose sheet only allegedly
revealing the impugned payments made out at assessees'
behest over and above the sale price involving M/s.Western
Pearl Project sold by M/s.Western Constructions/vendees.
Learned departmental authorities have treated the latter's
partner's statement and the alleged 'Excel' sheet as the basis
of the impugned additions. Learned CIT-DR also quoted Section 132(4) r.w.s.292C of the Act that such an
incriminating material found/seized during the course of
search carries presumption of correctness as well. He fails to
rebut the clinching legislative expression used in Section 292C of the Act carrying presumption inter alia that the specified
categories of the incriminating material are presumed to be
belonging to 'such persons' and their contents are true, validly
signed and are executed and are treated to be in the
possession; qua the concerned assessee only than in case of
any third person as well. The Revenue's endeavour to this
effect seeking to apply 292C r.w.s.132(4) presumptions fails. :- 34 -: 11. Next comes yet another equally important facet of the
instant issue. The Revenue has cited statement of
M/s.Western Construction's partner (supra) that the same
duly proved that the on-money payments had been made in
cash by these assessees. This argument also fails inter alia for
the reasons that Shri Raju had made it clear during and after
search that he was not aware of the company's business
affairs. And that the alleged document never mentioned these
assessee's names at all as it is not only the Assessing Officer in
the impugned assessment but even in case of the recipient
M/s.Western Construction's assessment order dt.28-12-2018
as well wherein it had been held that the on money amount
was attributable to Shri Narendra Kumar Goyal than these
twin assessees. Ld.CIT-DR was fair enough in informing the
bench that the department has not initiated any action against
Shri Narendra Kumar Goyal. That being the case, the
Revenue's stand of having strictly gone by the contents of the
seized document only to this effect itself is self-contradictory
since Shri Goyal (assessees' father) has nowhere been
examined till date. 12. Shri Moharana's next argument is the assessees'
statement (supra) had duly admitted the impugned on money
payment. We are unable to agree with the instant plea based
on mere admission made post search in view of the CBDT's
 :- 35 -: 13. Lastly comes the crucial issue as to whether the
impugned seized material / 'Excel' sheet (not mentioning the
assessees' names) forms a dumb document or not. We make it
clear that the department has failed to corroborate the
impugned seized document indicating assessee's alleged on
money payment over and above the sale price itself. All it has
done is to rely on their father's name only. It is nowhere clear
as to whether it is an alleged document forming part of the
books of account maintained in the regular course of business
either by the vendor or vendee side. All it contains therefore is
rough notings and jottings only. This tribunal co-ordinate
bench's decision Nishan Constructions Vs. ACIT ITA
No.1502/Ahd/2015; after considering the hon'ble apex court's
landmark decision in Common Cause, Vs. Union of India (2017) 77 taxmann.com 245 ( SC) and CBI Vs. V.C.Shukla (1998) 3 SCC 410 (SC) holds that such loose sheets deserves
to be treated as a dumb documents only since not revealing
full details about the dates containing lack of further
particulars and therefore, ought not to be made basis of an
addition. Similar other judicial precedents ACIT Vs. Layer
Exports P.Ltd. , (2017) [184 TTJ 469] (Mumbai) & ITO Vs.
Kranti Impex Pvt. Ltd., ITA No.1229/Mum/2013, dt.28-02-
2018 (dealing with a seized document seized not either bearing
the taxpayer's name or signature). Shri Neeraj Goyal Vs. ACIT , ITA No.5951/Del/2017, dt.21-03-2018, (Del) (2012) 23 :- 36 -: 14. These assessees' appeals are allowed in above terms. A
copy of this common order be placed in the respective case
files. Order pronounced in the open court on 20 th April, 2021

 Sd/- Sd/- 1.Sri Tarun Kumar Goyal, C/o. P. Murali & Co., Chartered
Accountants, 6-3-655/2/3, 1stFloor, Somajiguda,
Hyderabad. 2.Sri Arun Kumar Goyal, C/o. P. Murali & Co., Chartered
Accountants, 6-3-655/2/3, 1stFloor, Somajiguda,
Hyderabad. 3.The Asst.Commissioner of Income Tax, Central Circle-3(2),
Hyderabad. 4.CIT(Appeals)-11, Hyderabad. 5.Pr.CIT-Central, Hyderabad. 6.D.R. ITAT, Hyderabad. 7.Guard File.