CRM No.6382 of 2020

 Heard. Allowed as prayed for. Document (Annexure P25) is taken on record subject to all

just exceptions. CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) Prayer in this petition is for quashing of FIR No.216 dated

04.06.2019 registered under Sections 120-B , 384 , 385 , 388 , 465 , 468 , 469 , 464 , 467 , 389 , 420 , 506 , 471 , 476 , 511 of the Indian Penal Code,

1860 (in short ' IPC ') at Police Station Udyog Vihar, Gurugram, District

 1 of 18 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2020 01:41:01 ::: CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) 2 Gurugram and all other subsequent proceedings arising therefrom. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has argued that

the petitioner is presently residing in U.S.A. and has filed the present

petition through his power of attorney. It is further submitted that the

petitioner is possessing the qualification of L.L.B. and L.L.M. and is a

practicing Advocate in Delhi and is a member of the Supreme Court

Bar Association. It is argued that as per the allegations in the FIR,

registered at the instance of respondent No.2/complainant, he is

working as a Chief General Manger of Indiabulls Group of Companies

at Gurugram and the company is having good reputation. The

complainant received a phone call in the last week of April, 2019 from

a person who told him that he is a well-wisher of Indiabulls Group of

Companies and he has many internal documents in his possession

which can damage the reputation of his company. The said person

threatened that he will circulate the same in the various department and

can cause huge financial loss in thousand of crores of rupees to his

company. When the complainant enquired about his name and to

disclose his identity, the caller said, for that complainant will have to

meet him. Again on the next day, a similar call was received from

Phone No.9899419447, 9870278925 wherein, the called asked him to

make a call from the WhatsApp or internet application and not to call

on landline. He further threatened that the complainant will face dire

consequences if he fail to meet his demand and upon this, the

complainant requested him to share the information through documents

and e-mails. On 27.05.2019, the senior official of the complainant also

received a call from a person named Vikas Shekhar on WhatsApp in

 2 of 18 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2020 01:41:01 ::: CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) 3 which again the same story was repeated and when the complainant did

not respond, he threatened that they are not taking him seriously. As per

further allegations in the FIR, this happened again and in order to check

the veracity of Vikas Shekhar as to what is his demand, when asked the

caller, he informed him that the complainant should pay Rs.10 crores in

two parts. Rs.5 crores as initial installment where he will show the copy

of the complaint sent to various government department and second

installment of Rs.5 crores after the withdrawal of the complaint. The

FIR further states that believing that Vikas Shekhar and his associates

are a gang of blackmailing and cheaters who by creating false

complaints and distorted reports are making extortion calls to the

complainant, the police was requested to register an FIR against Vikas

Shekhar and his associates and accordingly, the FIR was registered. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has further

argued that thereafter co-accused Vikas Shekhar was arrested and in his

disclosure, he made the following statement:- 3 of 18 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2020 01:41:01 ::: CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) 4 the complaint has been lodged to the government officers
 against the DHFL and these people shall try to contact
 you. After some days, I was called by Dr. Kislay Pandey in
 his office and gave Rs.5.00 lacs to me at last Sunday and
 informed that the compromise has been effected with the
 Officers of DHFL and I got Rs 20.00 lacs for the
 compromise. Thereafter, he moved withdrawal letter
 against the applications given against DHFL and got the
 cases consigned to record room. In order to do all this, he
 used to talk through Whatsapp chat and internet calling.
 The payment which I received, the complete details are
 available in the Mobile Phone lying at my flat in Mayur
 Vihar and I can get the same recovered. Dr. Kislay Pandey
 also used to get illegal work done from me. Few days
 earlier, he gave cash amount to me and got the same
 converted into gold, the details of which are also lying in
 that Mobile phone, which I can get recovered. Similarly,
 after preparing complaint against Indiabulls Finance
 Company, he obtained my signatures on 8-10 papers and
 the applications were given to the senior officers by
 levelling allegations against Indiabulls. Similarly, Dr.
 Kislay Pandey told me by preparing withdrawal letter that
 as the discussion started with Indiabulls company, we will
 send these withdrawal letter to the concerned officers. The
 applications which were prepared against Indiabulls
 company, the same were prepared by Dr. Kislay Pandey
 and his associates. All these withdrawal letters have been
 kept by me in my village Sri Krishan Nagar, Sitamandi,
 Police station Sitamandi, Bihar. As directed by Dr. Kislay
 Pandey, I made Whatsapp internet calling in the
 Indiabulis company and threatened them to pay Rs. 10.00
 crores and also told them that if they do not pay this
 amount then I will lodge complaint against them with the
 government officers. I also told that I am having sufficient

 4 of 18 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2020 01:41:01 ::: CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) 5 material against Indiabull. Despite making several
 internet calls, no reply was given by the officers of
 Indiabulls, the information regarding the same was given
 to Dr. Kislay Panday. I have continuously talked with
 these officers through Whatsapp calling for the last about
 1½ - 2 months. I felt that the company officials shall
 contact me on my phone due to fear as I had given my two
 mobile numbers i.e. 98994-19447 and 98702-78925.
 General I used to switch off my these numbers but I used
 to know on the basis of missed calls that who have made
 call to me but I have not received any call back from
 Indiabulls. I had demanded Rs. 10.00 crores (two
 installments of Rs.5.00 crores) from Indiabulls company
 telephonically. Dr. Kislay had talked to me for the
 preparation of complaint by leveling for misappropriation
 of Rs.500 crores in respect of Pashav Nath Builders and
 Dr. Kislay had been talking through whatsapp message in
 this regard, this record is also lying available in my
 Mobile Phone and I can get it recovered from my village
 as I am residing in rented accommodation and have no
 source of income. I have borrowed money from many
 people and I had to repay the same and wife is also
 pregnant. Keeping in view the expenses regarding the
 same, I was very upset and under tension due to which, I
 have committed offence on the saying of Dr. Kislay
 Pandey. That the signatures of the witnesses have been
 obtained on the disclosure statement and the accused has
 also put his signatures on it. Thereafter, the accused had
 also disclosed that some documents are lying in his car
 bearing registration No.DL-7CN-8981. As per this
 disclosure statement, two booklet of Indiabull company,
 Annual report for the year 2017-18 of the sister concern of
 Indiabulls Real Estate and the annual report of Indiabuls
 Home Loan for the year 2016-17 have been taken out from

 5 of 18 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2020 01:41:01 ::: CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) 6 the seat cover of Maruti Wagan R bearing No. DL-7CN-
 8981 and have been produced and the same have been
 taken into police possession vide separate memo.
 Thereafter, the accused has further disclosed during
 interrogation that some fake documents duly prepared
 pertaining to Indiabulls company and one my Laptop in
 which, I have kept secret information and two Mobile
 Phone through I had talked, have been kept in secret place
 in my House i.e. Village Krishan Nahar, Sitamandi, Police
 Station Sitamandi, Bihar and some documents have been
 kept at House No.874, Jai Amba Apartment, Mayur Vihar
 3, Delhi and I can get it recovered. Apart from the
 aforesaid company, I had also prepared the information
 regarding other few companies so that more money may be
 extorted with the same, which have been kept by me in a
 secret place in my village Sri Krishan Nagar, Sitamandi,
 Police Station Sitamandi, Bhiar and some documents have
 been kept at 874, Jai Amba Apartment, Mayur Vihar 3,
 Delhi and I can get it recovered." Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has also

submitted that the disclosure statement of Vikas Shekhar is not binding

on the petitioner as Vikas Shekhar was a client of Magnum Juris LLP

Limited, a law firm run by the petitioner and the petitioner has filed

certain petitions on behalf of Vikas Shekhar and therefore, nothing has

come against the petitioner. It is further submitted that, thereafter,

another disclosure statement was made by the accused Vikas Shekhar

on 13.06.2019 in which he has stated that the father of the petitioner -

Ram Mani Panday (co-accused, who was also arrested) used to work

with him and prepared the petition and application on the basis of false

and fake documents. These applications were got prepared by Puneet

 6 of 18 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2020 01:41:01 ::: CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) 7 Verma Advocate, Purva Advocate, Anu Priya Advocate, Pallavi

Advocate, besides one person namely Sanjay Mishra, who used to do

the fake work and money transactions. It is further stated in this

disclosure statement that the petitioner - Kislay Panday and his father

Ram Mani Panday used to give him cash amount and financial

assistance and they had three different addresses. The petitioner -

Kislay Panday and his father Ram Mani Panday told him that they are

facing criminal prosecution in four cases registered against them in

Police Station Simapuri, New Delhi. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has, thus, argued

that only on the basis of two disclosure statements of Vikas Shekhar,

the petitioner has been nominated in the FIR and therefore, nothing has

come against him. It is further argued that the petitioner has moved an

application for anticipatory bail before the Court of Sessions at

Gurugram and the same were dismissed and even the second petition

for anticipatory bail was dismissed on 30.07.2019 and thereafter, the

petitioner has traveled abroad apprehending his arrest. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has also

submitted that the police during the investigation has issued a notice

under Section 41(a) of the Code of Criminal Procedure to the sister of

the petitioner to put pressure on him. At that time, the petitioner was in

Dubai and some officials of Indiabulls Group of Companies, visited

him and thereafter, they published a public apology on behalf of the

petitioner which show that the complainant party is exerting pressure

upon the petitioner. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has also argued

 7 of 18 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2020 01:41:01 ::: CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) 8 that even Vikas Shekhar, the co-accused of the petitioner has filed

CRM-M No.43183 of 2019 titled as Vikash Shekhar vs State of

Haryana and others, CRM-M No.41793 of 2019 titled as Vikash

Shekhar vs Union of India and others and CRM-M No.54504 of 2019

titled as Vikash Shekhar vs Union of India and others , praying for

certain directions as he is a whistle blower against the Indiabulls Group

of Companies and its officials and has prayed for issuance of a

directions to various authorities to take action against them. It is worth noticing that though the said petitions were also

listed today and were withdrawn by Vikas Shekhar by passing the

following order on even date:- Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has also

submitted that the aforesaid Vikas Shekhar is still pursuing his

complaint dated 06.05.2019 with the various authorities highlighting

the siphoning off the money by Indiabulls Group of Companies to some

 8 of 18 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2020 01:41:01 ::: CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) 9 other companies. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has also referred

to a PIL titled as Citizens Whistle Blowers Forums vs Union of India in

which Indiabulls Group of Companies and the complainants are

respondents No.7 and 8. In the said petition, it is prayed that the

direction be issued to the respondents therein to conduct an

independent investigation on the complaints given by them. Learned

senior counsel has, however, submitted that the said petition is pending

before the Delhi High Court. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has further

argued that the petitioner is entitled to protection under Section 29 of

the Advocates Act as well as under the Whistle Blowers Protection Act,

2014 as he and Vikas Shekhar are acting towards the larger interest of

the investors of Indiabulls Group of Companies. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has, lastly, argued

that the petitioner may be granted the concession of anticipatory bail

and he may be permitted to come back to India and face the

proceedings, in accordance with law. Since the petition filed by Vikas Shekhar was also listed,

learned counsel for the State, assisted by the Investigating Officer as

well as learned senior counsel for the complainant/respondent No.2,

have also appeared in the present case of their own. Before referring to the arguments of counsel for the State

as well as learned senior counsel for the complainant, it would be

relevant to mention that on a Court query whether the petitioner, his

father Ram Mani Panday (co-accused) or Vikas Shekhar (co-accused)

 9 of 18 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2020 01:41:01 ::: CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) 10 have invested any amount to show their locus standi about the

allegations against the Indiabulls Group of Companies, the answer is in

negative. Counsel for the State, on instructions for the Investigating

Officer, has stated that since the petitioner is not appearing initially,

non-bailable warrants were issued by Illaqa Magistrate and now on

26.02.2020, the trial Court has issued a proclamation to declare him a

proclaimed offender. Learned State counsel has further referred to the order

dated 30.07.2019 declining the application for grant of anticipatory bail

to the petitioner, to submit that a list was provided by the Investigating

Officer before the Additional Sessions Judge regarding the cases in

which the petitioner as well as his father (who was found to be a fake

Lawyer) is pending. For a ready reference, the list of cases registered against

the petitioner - Kislay Panday, is reproduced as under:- Similarly, the father of the petitioner namely Ram Mani

Panday is also facing ten criminal cases and the particulars of the same

are reproduced as follows:- Counsel for the State has further submitted that the

petitioner, instead of surrendering before the Court has run away from

the jurisdiction of the Court and therefore, the proclamation has already

been issued against him. Counsel for the State has further argued that even from the

 11 of 18 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2020 01:41:01 ::: CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) 12 laptop of the father of the petitioner, a copy of the application given by

one lady namely Alka Rani against the former Chief Justice of India,

with regard to her sexual exploitation was also found including a

printout of her affidavit. It is also submitted that not only in the

disclosure statement of co-accused Vikas Shekhar, the name of the

petitioner has surfaced as the main accused, in a ploy of extortion

against the complainant but recoveries in purusance of disclosure are

also effected which shows that the disclosure made by the co-accused

against the petitioner is corroborated by the recoveries. It is further

stated that four other Advocates, who were working with the petitioner

in the firm i.e. M/s Magnum Juris LLP Limited, namely Puneet Verma

Advocate, Purva Advocate, Anu Priya Advocate and Pallavi Advocate,

have also recorded their statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and 164 Cr.P.C . In one of the statement recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C.,

Abhay Yadav has stated that he had engaged the petitioner as an

Advocate regarding a matrimonial dispute with his wife but the

petitioner without his knowledge and by misusing his signatures has

filed a petition before the Hon'ble Supreme Court with his name

against the complainant - Indiabulls Group of Companies whereas he

was never a whistle blower as he stated that his signatures were

obtained in a fraudulent manner. This petition was later on withdrawn

by him. The another statement of Puneet Verma, Advocate under Section 164 Cr.P.C. is recorded in which he has leveled similar

allegations against the petitioner. Counsel for the State has further

submitted that the complainant has given a complete details of

WhatsApp chat with the petitioner from his mobile phone, e-mails and

 12 of 18 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2020 01:41:01 ::: CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) 13 documents and Sections 388 and 389 IPC were also added. Counsel for

the State has, thus, submitted that not only the disclosure statement of

Vikas Shekhar but from the recoveries effected thereafter, which

corroborate the version as well as from the statement of the other

witnesses, it has come that even on previous occasion, in a similar

manner, the accused persons have blackmailed one DHFL Company

and they have received a huge amount in crores of rupees. This fact has

come in the disclosure statement of co-accused Ram Mani Panday, the

father of the petitioner. The complete details of the amount extorted

from DHFL Company is given in the disclosure statement of Ram Mani

Panday. Learned senior counsel for the complainant has

additionally argued that the modus operandi adopted by the petitioner is

to file false complaints against the financial institutions in order to

blackmail them on the basis of the forged and fabricated documents and

for this purpose, the petitioner used to hire clients like Vikas Shekhar

for the purpose of getting their signatures and filing false petitions

before the Court. It is further submitted that not only this, the petitioner

has adopted a unique method of filing similar complaints against the

same companies from different places in the country by hiring the

services of various persons. Learned senior counsel for the complainant

has also submitted that he has the instructions to say that in verbatim

different complaints from different parts of the country are being filed

at the instance of the petitioner against Indiabulls as a part of larger

conspiracy. Learned senior counsel for the complainant has further

 13 of 18 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2020 01:41:01 ::: CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) 14 submitted that even the CWP No.9987 of 2019 filed before the Delhi

High Court in the name of Citizens Whistle Blowers as relied upon by

learned senior counsel for the petitioner was, in fact, in verbatim a copy

of the petition which was filed by the petitioner by posing the aforesaid

Abhay Yadav as a genuine petitioner before the Hon'ble Supreme Court

of India and was later on withdrawn by Abhay Yadav. Learned senior counsel for the complainant has further

argued that since the petitioner is avoiding his arrest and the

investigation qua him is still pending, this petition praying for quashing

of the FIR is not maintainable. Learned senior counsel for the complainant has further

referred to judgments " Munshiram vs State of Rajasthan and

another ", 2018(5) SCC 678 and "Dineshbhai Chandubhai Patel vs

State of Gujarat and others", 2018(3) SCC 104, wherein the Hon'ble

Supreme Court has held that if the case is at the stage of investigation,

the High Court should not entertain the petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. for quashing of the FIR. Learned senior counsel for the complainant has referred to

the judgment " State of Telangana vs Habib Abdullah Jeelani and

others ", 2017(2) SCC 799 wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

held that while deciding the petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C., for

quashing of the FIR, the High Court cannot direct the police, not to

arrest the petitioner as it will amount to converting the proceedings

under Section 482 Cr.P.C. into 438 Cr.P.C . without satisfying its

condition. It is held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that the practicing

 14 of 18 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2020 01:41:01 ::: CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) 15 of filing a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C., initially for quashing of

the FIR and then seeking the relief of enlargement on bail by

surrendering the petitioner before the Magistrate should be stopped. Learned senior counsel for the complainant has further

submitted that where the accused is absconding and warrants are issued

against him, the FIR cannot be quashed where the offence are relating

to extortion, forgery and fabrication of document. Learned senior

counsel for the complainant has also relied upon the judgment

" Parbatbhai Aahir @ Parbatbhai Bhimsinhbhai Karmur and others

vs State of Gujarat and another ", 2017(4) RCR (Criminal) 523,

wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that even in case of

compromise, the FIR cannot be quashed where the allegations are of

serious nature. In reply, learned senior counsel for the petitioner has

argued that since the petitioner was not initially named in the FIR, the

FIR is liable to be quashed and the allegations are primarily against the

co-accused Vikas Shekhar and therefore, the petitioner is entitled to

protection under Section 29 , 30 and 33 of the Advocates Act. After hearing the learned counsel for the parties, I find no

ground to quash the FIR for the following reasons:- Even at the stage when the present petition was

 filed, non-bailable warrants were issued against the

 15 of 18 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2020 01:41:01 ::: CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) 16 petitioner. The anticipatory bail of the petitioner was

 dismissed by the trial Court vide order dated 30.07.2019

 and thereafter, the petitioner traveled abroad and never

 returned back, therefore, in view of the judgment

 Dineshbhai Chandubhai Patel's case ( supra) and

 Munshiram 's case (supra), this petition is not

 maintainable. (b) A perusal of the order dated 30.07.2019 in

 which it is noticed that the petitioner is facing criminal

 prosecution in three cases as well as his father namely

 Ram Mani Panday is also facing trial in ten FIRs, it

 cannot be said that the petitioners have clean

 antecedents. Even in the laptop recovered from the father of the

 petitioner, the police found the details of the complaint

 given by a lady against the former Chief Justice of India

 along with her affidavit which reflect the conduct of the

 accused persons. It has also come during the investigation that in a

 similar fashion the money in crores was taken by them

 from another firm i.e. DHFL, the details of which came

 in the disclosure statement of the father of the petitioner

 namely Ram Mani Panday. (c) The prayer of the petitioner that he may be

 permitted to come to India even after dismissal of his

 anticipatory bail application and join the proceedings

 16 of 18 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2020 01:41:01 ::: CRM-M No.5882 of 2020 (O&M) 17 cannot be permitted in view of State of Telangana's case

 (supra), wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has clearly

 held that on dismissal of the anticipatory bail, no such

 relief can be granted in a petition under Section 482

 Cr.P.C. (d) Since the investigation qua the petitioner is

 still pending, considering the serious allegations against

 the petitioner, which have come during the disclosure of

 his father (co-accused) Ram Mani Panday and (other co-

 accused) Vikas Shekhar, which are further corroborated

 by the recovery effected by the police and various

 documents supplied by the complainant in the shape of

 WhatsApp messages, e-mails, etc. wherein the extortion

 calls were made, in view of the judgment of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in Parbatbhai Aahir @ Parbatbhai

 Bhimsinhbhai Karmur 's case (supra), this petition

 praying for quashing of the FIR is not maintainable, at

 this stage. (e) From the bare perusal of the FIR and the

 report submitted under Section 173 Cr.P.C. against the

 co-accused Vikas Shekhar and Ram Mani Panday, it

 cannot be said that on the face of it, no offence is made

 out against the petitioner, as per the prosecution, he is

 the mastermind of the entire episode of extortion as

 alleged by the complainant. demonstrates that the modus operandi adopted by the

 petitioner and his father Ram Mani Panday like one

 Abhay Yadav was used as a tool to file a petition before

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court against the complainant and

 he later on coming to know that the petitioner has

 misused his signed papers had withdrawn the same as he

 never intended to be a petitioner in the said case.

 Therefore, the argument that the petitioner is entitled to

 protection under the Advocates Act is without force as his

 active involvement is there as per the prosecution. Therefore, looking into the allegations of

 blackmailing and extortion of money from the

 complainant, I do not find that from the bare perusal of

 the FIR it can be quashed as per the guidelines laid

 down in the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

 " State of Haryana vs Bhajan Lal ", 1992 Supp. (1) SCC 335.

 In view of what has been discussed hereinbefore, finding

no merit, the petition fails and is accordingly dismissed.