% 16.09.2021 1. The present bail application has been filed under Section 439 Cr.P.C.
on behalf of the applicant seeking regular bail in FIR No. 28/2021 registered
under Sections 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 419 / 34 / 120B IPC and Section 82 of the
Registration Act, 1908 at Police Station Crime Branch (West District),
Delhi. 2. Mr. Saket Sikri, learned counsel for the applicant, submits that the
applicant is a senior citizen aged 72 years. He further submits that the
applicant was arrested on 08.04.2021 and remains incarcerated till date
except for a period of one week, when considering his medical condition,
 the applicant was released on interim bail. He submits that upon expiry of
his period of release, the applicant duly surrendered before the concerned
jail authorities. Learned counsel further submits that the charge sheet in the
present case having been filed, the applicant is no longer required for
custodial interrogation. 3. On merits, it is submitted that even as per the prosecution case, the
present applicant is neither the main conspirator nor a beneficiary of the
alleged cheated amount. While referring to the charge sheet, it is submitted
that the prosecution has alleged three transactions with respect to the ground
and first floors of the property bearing No.78, Bhera Enclave, Paschim
Vihar, New Delhi-110087 (hereinafter, 'the property in question'), wherein
the applicant is stated to have impersonated himself as one Ramesh Kapoor,
the complainant/owner of the property in question, for execution of three
different sale deeds. The applicant is also alleged to have impersonated
himself as the complainant before two Banks namely, the Union Bank of
India, Pitampura (erstwhile Allahabad Bank) and the Indian Overseas Bank,
Daryaganj for the purpose of opening fake bank accounts so that the loans
obtained in pursuance of aforesaid sale deeds could be siphoned off. He also
submits with respect to the loan transaction with Allahabad Bank (now
Union Bank of India) that the entire loan amount has already been repaid
through Pawan Bindal, Ram Kishan Bindal and Praveen Bindal (hereinafter,
collectively referred to as the Bindals). In connection with the second
transaction stated to have taken place with the Punjab and Maharashtra
Cooperative Bank (hereinafter, 'the PMC Bank'), learned counsel for the
applicant submits that it is co-accused Raj Kumar Soneja, who is alleged to
have impersonated himself as the complainant and caused disbursal of the
 loan amount from Canara Bank into an account in the PMC Bank. In regard
of the third loan transaction with the Indian Overseas Bank, Ansari Road,
Daryaganj, it has been submitted that the total loan amount disbursed was
Rs.2,16,75,000/- and no portion out of the said amount has come to the share
of the applicant. 4. In support of his submissions, learned counsel for the applicant has
placed reliance on the following decisions to urge that the charge sheet
having been filed, the applicant is not going to flee from justice and as per
parameters of bail laid down by the Supreme Court, the gravity of the
offence alone cannot be the only guiding factor:- 5. Mr. Hirein Sharma, learned APP for the State, duly assisted by Mr.
Sunil Dixit, learned counsel for the complainant, has vehemently opposed
the bail application. It is submitted that the present case involves a well-
planned conspiracy, wherein the accused persons defrauded not only the
complainant but also certain Banks and LIC Housing Finance Ltd. It is
further submitted that as part of the aforesaid conspiracy, two fake accounts
 were opened in different Banks in the name of the complainant for the
purpose of availing loans. For the said purpose, the accused persons along
with the present applicant also forged identity documents of the
complainant, i.e., Aadhar card, PAN card and voter ID-card. It is submitted
that though the aforesaid identity documents were in the name of the
complainant, the same contained the photograph of the present applicant. It
is next submitted that at the same time the lease deed of the DDA with
respect to the property in question was also forged. It is further submitted
that insofar as the first transaction is concerned, the amount of Rs.2.35
crores has not been repaid by the accused persons, but by the Bindals, in
whose favour the applicant had executed a forged sale deed of the ground
floor of the property in question. It is submitted that the Bindals had entered
into the agreement without being aware of the conspiracy and to show their
bona fides, repaid the entire loan amount to the Allahabad Bank out of their
own funds. The Bindals are rather themselves a victim of the fraud
committed by the accused persons. It is further submitted that the Canara
Bank had initiated proceedings before the DRT under the provisions of SARFAESI Act, 2002 , in which the complainant, who is a senior citizen
aged 75 years, had to deposit Rs.25 lacs to avoid attachment of the property
in question. It is also submitted that the applicant had withdrawn Rs.5 lacs
cash from the fake bank account and as per the disclosure statement, he was
beneficiary of Rs.7 lacs. It is submitted that in the entire investigation not a
single rupee could be recovered from the accused persons including about 3
crores of the money belonging to PSUs and further investigation in this case
is pending. It is also averred that Section 467 IPC entails punishment for
life. 6. Lastly, it is submitted that on an earlier occasion, this Court,
considering the Medical Status Report dated 26.05.2021 filed by the
Medical Officer In-charge, Central Jail & Dispensary, Central Jail No. 03,
Tihar, New Delhi, permitted the applicant to be treated at MGS Super
Speciality Hospital, Rohtak Road, West Punjabi Bagh, New Delhi. However,
later, on his condition stabilising, the applicant surrendered. It is urged that
while the applicant is stated to be of 72 years of age, the complainant is aged
75 years and is having to run from one forum to another in order to save his
property, which he had saved for his old age. 7. In rebuttal, Mr. Sikri, learned counsel for the applicant, on
instructions, submitted that without prejudice to his rights and contentions,
the applicant is ready and willing to deposit a sum of Rs.7 lacs with the
Court. 8. I have heard the learned counsels for the parties and gone through the
materials placed on record. 9. It has come in the investigation that the property in question
consisting of basement, ground and first floor is owned by the complainant.
As per the charge sheet, the accused persons entered into a conspiracy to
defraud the complainant of his property. For the said purpose, while opening
two fake beneficiary accounts in the name of the complainant with two
different Banks, the applicant impersonated himself as him. As part of the
conspiracy, three different sale transactions were also entered, one for the
first floor and two for the ground floor of the property in question. 10. The first transaction relates to the ground floor of the property in
question for which the applicant got executed a forged sale deed dated
16.07.2018 in the name of the Bindals, impersonating himself as the
 complainant. A beneficiary account was further opened by the present
applicant with the Allahabad Bank (now Union Bank of India), again
impersonating himself as the complainant, and a loan amount of Rs.2.35
crores was availed from LIC Housing Finance Ltd., which was credited in
the aforesaid beneficiary account. From the aforesaid beneficiary account,
the applicant withdrew a cash amount of Rs.5 lacs and transferred the
remaining amount to various dummy firms. Notably, a photograph of the
present applicant was appended to the aforementioned forged sale deed as
well as the account opening form. It is for this transaction that the Bindals,
on coming to know of the fraud committed with the Bank and in order to
show their bona fides, repaid the entire loan amount of Rs.2.35 crores. Thus,
the contention raised earlier by Mr. Sikri, learned counsel for the applicant,
is falsified as it was not the accused persons but the unsuspecting Bindals
who repaid the loan amount. 11. The second transaction relates to first floor of the property in question
for which a forged sale deed dated 08.08.2018 was executed by the present
applicant, impersonating himself as the complainant, in favour of one
Sanjeev Anand. In furtherance of the conspiracy, a beneficiary account was
opened by co-accused Raj Kumar Soneja, impersonating himself as the
complainant, with the PMC Bank and a loan amount of Rs.95.8 lacs was
disbursed by the Canara Bank in connection therewith. It is worthwhile to
note that a photograph of the applicant was appended to the aforesaid forged
sale deed. 12. The third transaction again relates to the ground floor of the property
in question for which the present applicant executed a forged sale deed dated
10.08.2018 in the name of one Sanjay Kumar, while impersonating himself
 as the complainant. A beneficiary account was also opened by the present
applicant with the Indian Overseas Bank, while impersonating as the
complainant and a loan of Rs.2,16,75,000/- was availed from the Punjab
National Bank. The same was credited in the aforesaid beneficiary account.
In furtherance of the conspiracy, the amount was later transferred in the
accounts of different dummy firms. Again, it is noted that a photograph of
the present applicant was appended to the aforementioned forged sale deed
as well as the account opening form. 13. The Supreme Court in Prasanta Kumar Sarkar v. Ashis Chatterjee and
Another reported as (2010) 14 SCC 496, has outlined the following
parameters that are to be kept in mind at the time of consideration of a bail
application:- 14. The aforesaid view has been reiterated in subsequent decisions of
various Courts, some of which are also cited by learned counsel for the
applicant. These include Mahipal v. Rajesh Kumar alias Polia and Another
reported as ( 2020) 2 SCC 118, Ramesh Bhavan Rathod v. Vishanbhai
Hirabhai Makwana (Koli) and Another reported as ( 2021) 6 SCC 230 and
Harjit Singh v. Inderpreet Singh alias Inder and Another reported as 2021
SCC OnLine SC 633, where the aforementioned parameters have been
approved and cited with authority. 15. In the case of P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement reported
as (2020) 13 SCC 791, the Supreme Court has enunciated the importance of
perusing facts and circumstances of the case at hand while deciding an
application for bail. Accordingly, the following observations therefrom bear
mention:- (emphasis added) 16. In view of the settled legal position, as outlined hereinabove, there is
no gainsaying the fact that at the time of consideration of a bail application,
the individual facts of the particular case have to be considered on their own
merit while keeping in mind the aforesaid guiding factors. 17. From the facts narrated in the preceding paragraphs, it is apparent that
the applicant was instrumental in opening two of the aforesaid fake
beneficiary accounts with different Banks while impersonating himself as
the complainant. He also executed three forged sale deeds in the names of
different persons while impersonating as the complainant. He further
withdrew a cash amount of Rs.5 lacs through self-cheque from the aforesaid
beneficiary account in the Allahabad Bank and transferred the remaining
amount in the aforementioned two accounts to the accounts of dummy firms
from where every penny was siphoned off. The accused persons not only
forged a lease deed executed by DDA, but also forged various identity
documents in the name of the complainant and some of these documents
bear the photograph of the present applicant. The total cheated amount
involved in the present case is about Rs. 5.48 crores, which includes the sum
of Rs.2.35 crores repaid by the Bindals. Additionally, the complainant had to
deposit a sum of Rs.25 lacs with the DRT under SARFAESI proceedings in
order to save the property in question. In the present case, the accused
persons have thus entered into a criminal conspiracy to commit systematic
fraud by committing various acts of cheating and forgery resulting in not
 only defrauding the complainant but also the Banks, the LIC Housing
Finance Ltd and the Bindals. The further investigation of the offence is
stated to be pending. 18. The applicant has played a major role in the entire fraud. His
footprints are there in almost every step from opening of fake bank accounts
to execution of sale deeds and transfer of loan amounts credited in said fake
accounts to the fake dummy firms. I find considerable force in the
submissions of learned APP for the State that the applicant's intention and
knowledge of the entire conspiracy, is discernible from his acts. The
allegations are serious in nature. 19. Keeping in view the modus operandi adopted by the accused persons,
the role of the applicant in the same, and the nature and gravity of the
offence, this Court does not find any ground to admit the present applicant
on regular bail. The bail application being devoid of any merits is
accordingly dismissed along with the pending application(s). MANOJ KUMAR OHRI, J

SEPTEMBER 16, 2021
'dc'

 Click here to check corrigendum, if any