(Per: Ms. Kumkum Rani, President): 2. The facts giving rise to the appeal, in brief, are as such that the
complainant is a poor labour in SIDCUL, Haridwar and has a saving bank 1 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 22.10.2024
 142 of 2020 Vs.
 Ms. Preet Kaur

account bearing No. 1074000190351957 in the opposite party - P.N.B. On
dated 19.08.2018, the complainant has withdrawn Rs. 2,000/- from her
aforesaid account through P.N.B. ATM, BHEL and Rs. 77,214/- was left in
her bank account; after that she had not made any transaction from her
account. But from 24.08.2018 to 26.08.2018 Rs. 75,000/- were fraudulently
withdrawn from her bank account through different transactions at ATM
Ghaziabad and complainant has not received any SMS regarding these
transactions. It is further alleged in the complaint that when the complainant
came to know about the said fraudulent withdrawal, she immediately
informed the Banking Tollfree number and lodged a FIR No. 0296/2018 in
Police Station Ranipur, Haridwar. The complainant met with the officials
of the opposite party several times, but all went in vain. On dated
07.04.2019, the complainant sent an application to the Banking
Ombudsman, but no action was taken till date. Due to unfair trade practice
of the opposite party and deficient service on the part of the Bank, the
complainant suffered mental agony and financial loss. By moving the said
complaint, the complainant has sought Rs. 75,000/- including interest. 3. The opposite party had submitted its written statement before the
District Commission alleging that the complainant has filed the complaint
on baseless and wrong facts. The opposite party conceded that the
complainant has a saving bank account with the opposite party - Bank. It
is further alleged that if the aforesaid transaction was done at Ghaziabad,
then the District Commission has no jurisdiction to hear and decide the said
complaint. There is no CCTV footage available on record regarding the
said transaction from the Ghaziabad P.N.B. The said transaction was made
due to the negligence on the part of the complainant for which she is liable
for the same. It is further alleged that this is not the case of card cloning.
Hence, there was no deficiency in service on the part of the Bank. Therefore, the Commission has no right to entertain the complaint and the
same is liable to be dismissed. 4. The District Commission after hearing both the parties and after
taking into consideration the pleadings and evidence available on record,
passed the impugned judgment and order on dated 28.09.2020 wherein it
was directed to the opposite party to pay Rs. 75,000/- with simple interest
at the rate of 6% p.a. towards the amount withdrawn from the complainant's
account. The interest to be levied is from the date of institution of the
complaint, i.e. 05.07.2019 till the date of final payment and further pay an
amount of Rs. 5,000/- towards the costs of litigation. 5. Aggrieved by the impugned judgment and order of the District
Commission, the opposite party has preferred the present appeal as
appellant stating that the District Commission has erred on both facts and
law in arriving at the decision that the appellant has committed deficiency
in service, since the fraudulent transactions from the respondent's account
are not even distantly attributable to the services being provided to the
respondent by the appellant and the same is committed by persons unknown
to the appellant, hence the complaint filed by the respondent is not tenable.
The Commission below has failed to appreciate the fact that the appellant
Bank duly investigated the said matter and reported the outcome to the
Banking Ombudsman through mail dated 08.05.2019 which proves that the
appellant tried its best to redress the grievance of the respondent. The
Commission below ignored the contention of the appellant that the ATM at
Ghaziabad is not under the jurisdictional territory of the appellant, hence
the complaint of the respondent is liable to be dismissed on the ground of
lack of territorial jurisdiction. The Commission below failed to appreciate
that the PNB, Ghaziabad was not a party to the complaint case, thus the 3 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 22.10.2024
 142 of 2020 Vs.
 Ms. Preet Kaur

complaint filed by the respondent suffered from non-joinder of PNB,
Ghaziabad as a necessary party to the said complaint. This erroneous
ignorance of this crucial fact blew the wind against the appellant Bank. The
Commission below has failed to consider the fact that it is possible to
withdraw money via an ATM card only when the card is in possession of
the card-holder and has the ATM pin and hence the responsibility to
preserve the ATM pin lies solely on account holder. There is no deficiency
in service on the part of the appellant, hence the appeal deserves to be
allowed and the impugned judgment and order is liable to be set aside. 6. Learned counsel for the respondent - complainant has stated that the
complainant never shared her ATM card with pin-code to someone else; it
always remained in the custody of the complainant. 7. We have heard learned counsel for both the party and perused the
material available on record. 8. It is an admitted fact that there is a relationship of consumer and
service provider between the appellant and respondent. It is also admitted
that complainant is a poor labour in SIDCUL, Haridwar and she has a
saving bank account bearing No. 1074000190351957 in the appellant
Bank. It is not disputed that the complainant has withdrawn Rs. 2,000/-
from her aforesaid account through P.N.B. ATM, BHEL on dated
19.08.2018. It is also not disputed that from 24.08.2018 to 26.08.2018
Rs. 75,000/- were fraudulently withdrawn from her bank account through
different transactions through ATM Ghaziabad. There is only one issue
that the aforesaid Rs. 75,000/- was fraudulently withdrawn by someone else
due to not having sufficient safety measure in such electronic banking
transaction. 9. We have also perused the guidelines of RBI through the notification
Nos. RBI/2013-14/296 dated 27.09.2013 and RBI/2017-18/15 dated
06.07.2017. In the above guidelines dated 06.07.2017, it is mentioned in
para Nos. 3, 4 & 5. The said act was not specifically denied in the written statement of the
appellant - opposite party. 13. From the record, it is also evident that the fraudulent and illegal
transactions of Rs. 75,000/- were made through PNB ATM at Ghaziabad.
Respondent has clearly averred in the affidavit and evidence that she never
intimated his particulars, CVV value of her ATM card and personal
information to any other person to make the illegal transactions. If the
illegal and fraudulent transactions were made without sharing pin-code
CVV value and password to any other person, even then the transactions
had taken place in any other city, i.e. Ghaziabad, in such circumstances, it
will be deemed that there was no negligence on the part of the respondent - complainant and such transactions took place due to the reason that the
Bank had not provided sufficient, full proof security for the ATM /Credit
card transaction. The appellant Bank has stated in the written statement
that this is not a case of card cloning whereas in the impugned judgment,
the Commission below has high-lighted this point that as per the police
investigation, such fraudulent transactions had taken place due to card 9 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 22.10.2024
 142 of 2020 Vs.
 Ms. Preet Kaur

cloning. The appellant Bank has failed to file any CCTV footage on record
to show that such withdrawals were actually made by the respondent -
complainant by using her ATM card from ATM Ghaziabad. The appellant
Bank has also not filed any concrete and reliable evidence on the factum
that such fraudulent withdrawals were made by such ATM card number
which was already issued to the respondent - complainant and there was
no case of card cloning. 14. Learned counsel for the appellant has referred the following case
laws, which are as follows: 15. In the case of Parveen Kumar Jain vs. HDFC Bank Ltd. (supra),
the Hon'ble National Commission has held that "as per these instructions, 10 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 22.10.2024
 142 of 2020 Vs.
 Ms. Preet Kaur

there will be zero liability of a customer, where the unauthorized
transaction occurs in the events of Contributory fraud/ deficiency on the
part of the bank. The instructions also take care of third party breach where
the deficiency lies neither with the bank nor with the customer but lies
elsewhere in the system. If customer notifies the Bank of such transaction
within three working days, then zero liability lies with the customer." In the above case , the Hon'ble National Commission has set aside
the order so the State Commission as well as District Commission and
allow the complaint with the directions to the respondent - HDFC Bank to
reverse the transactions with respect to the fraudulent transactions which
took place on dated 30.03.2014 for a total amount of Rs. 24,000/-. In case
this amount has already been recovered from the complainant, the Bank is
liable to refund the same alongwith interest / penalty charged on such
amount and such refund shall be payable to the complainant alongwith
interest with litigation charges. 16. In the case of State Bank of India vs. Dr. J.C.S. Kataky (supra),
the Hon'ble National Commission has held that "A plain reading of this
provision is sufficient to establish that once the complaint was made citing
specific incidents of unauthorised withdrawal, it was the duty of the Bank
to have carried out the necessary verification in the matter, rather than
washing their hands off from the whole episode. Evidently, there has been
deficiency in service on the part of the Bank, vis-à-vis, the
consumer/complainant. It is held, therefore, that the consumer fora below
have made a correct appreciation of the facts and circumstances on record
which deciding the complaint in favour of the complainant. Moreover, it
is a settled legal proposition that the powers in the exercise of the revisional
jurisdiction are used only if there is a jurisdictional error or material defect 11 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 22.10.2024
 142 of 2020 Vs.
 Ms. Preet Kaur

in the orders passed by the consumer fora". Therefore, on such discussion,
the Hon'ble National Commission dismissed the revision petition on merit. 17. In the case of Chairman, Punjab National Bank & Anr. vs.
Leader Valves Ltd. (supra), the Hon'ble National Commission has held
that "it is seen that the Complainant, on his part, had been diligent and
dutiful in bringing the unauthorized transfers to the notice of the Bank
without undue delay, he brought the unauthorized transactions to the
Bank's notice the same day, in the evening, on checking his accounts. His
responsibility ended there, and the Bank's responsibility started, it was the
Bank's responsibility to identify the systemic failure, remedy the pecuniary
loss and injury to the Complainant." In the abovesaid case, the Hon'ble National Commission has also
confirmed the order of the State Commission wherein the award was made
in favour of the complainant. 18. In the case of HDFC Bank Limited and another vs. Jesna Jose (supra), the Hon'ble National Commission has held that "The first
fundamental question that arises is whether the Bank is responsible for an
unauthorized transfer occasioned by an act of malfeasance on the part of
functionaries of the Bank or by an act of malfeasance by any other person
(except the Complainant / account-holder). The answer, straightaway, is in
the affirmative. If an account is maintained by the Bank, the Bank itself is
responsible for its safety and security. Any systemic failure, whether by
malfeasance on the part of its functionaries or by any other person (except
the consumer / account-holder), is its responsibility, and not of the
consumer." and dismissed the revision and confirmed the order of the State
Commission as well as the District Commission. 19. So in the light of the above cited case laws, it is proved that there
was no negligence on the part of the respondent - complainant and she had
immediately intimated about the occurrence / illegal transactions made
from her ATM card to the Bank as well as to the police, but nothing was
done by the Bank within stipulated period inspite of several requests of
respondent -complainant. The illegal transactions were made through
ATM Ghaziabad. It is not proved on record that the respondent had shared
the pin-code of her ATM card or its password and personal information to
someone else. 20. The appellant had not filed any such cogent evidence to this effect
that the respondent was negligent and he has shared his confidential
information about his ATM card to someone else, therefore, we find no
negligence or carelessness on the part of the respondent. 21. We are of the considered view that the District Commission has not
committed any error in granting the award alongwith interest and litigation
expenses to the respondent - complainant. Thus, we are of the definite
view that the District Commission has exercised the jurisdiction which was
vested in it and the impugned judgment is perfectly and appropriately
passed by the District Commission concerned. There is no perversity and
infirmity in passing of the impugned judgment. Thus, the impugned
judgment deserves to be affirmed and the appeal is liable to be dismissed. 22. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed. Impugned judgment and
order dated 28.09.2020 passed by the District Commission, Haridwar is
hereby affirmed. No order as to costs of the appeal. 23. A copy of this Order be provided to all the parties free of cost as
mandated by the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 / 2019. The Order be 13 Appeal No. Punjab National Bank 22.10.2024
 142 of 2020 Vs.
 Ms. Preet Kaur

uploaded forthwith on the website of the Commission for the perusal of
the parties. The copy of this Order be sent to the concerned District
Commission for record and necessary information. 24. File be consigned to record room along with a copy of this Order. (Ms. Kumkum Rani)
 President

 (Mr. B.S. Manral)
 Member
Pronounced on: 22.10.2024 14