Pradeep Kumar with intention to malign the reputation and image of the 

complainant sent SMS from his mobile phone No. 9532819417 at the mobile 

number of complainant's wife Shashi Bala 996866651, the wording of the 

said SMS are as quoted under: It is alleged by the complainant that the said SMS has caused mental 

harassment and great imputation to the image and reputation of the 

complainant. Again the respondent wrote a letter to the complainant's 

younger daughter's husband Dr. Amit alleging that his father-in-law, the 

complainant, has procured a fraud army quota certificate which can not be 

procured as per rules. So it has been procured by giving bribe. It is alleged 

that such conduct of the respondent has caused a great imputation and loss to 

the image and reputation of the complainant and his family members. The 

relevant portion of the letter is quoted as under: The complainant has examined two witnesses in support of his 

complaint, himself as CW1 and his wife Smt. Shashi Bala Sharma as CW2. 

Both of them reiterated their version as mentioned above. Photocopy of CC No.55/11 Dhirender Kumar Sharma v. Dr. Pradeep Kumar Page 2 of 5 message is mark A and the letter is mark B. CW1 also proved the copy of 

complaint addressed to SHO as Ex. CW1/A, DCP N/E as Ex.CW1/B, 

Commissioner of Police, Delhi as Ex.CW1/C. He also produced the defence 

discharge certificate, disability certificate, copy of the SMS, copy of the 

letter sent by respondent Dr. Pradeep Kumar and photocopy of publication 

part­2 as Mark CW1/A to CW1/D.

 Arguments were heard and clarification were sought. Record 

perused. It is argued that the gist of SMS and letter clearly shows the 

imputation to the reputation and character of the complainant and his 

daughter. It is argued that complainant is a Brahman by caste and served in 

defence. There is no question to get fraud certificate made. It is argued that 

the accused has been further mailing false, frivolous and vague complaints 

to various authorities about the complainant and his daughter Vinod Kumar 

@ Veenu which is creating doubt over the dignity and respect of the 

complainant. The present complaint has been filed U/s 500 IPC read with section 499 IPC. Section 499 IPC provides 
 "...whoever, by words either spoken or intended to be read, or by signs or by 

visible representations, makes or publishes any imputation concerning any person 

intending to harm, or knowing or having reason to believe that such imputation will harm, 

the reputation of such person, is said, except in the cases hereinafter excepted, to defame 

that person..." CC No.55/11 Dhirender Kumar Sharma v. Dr. Pradeep Kumar Page 3 of 5 The complainant is mainly relying upon the copy of the SMS 

and copy of the letter addressed to one Dr. Amit Chaubey which is Mark 

CW1/B. The complainant has not examined Dr. Amit Chaubey to prove that 

the said letter was ever written by the respondent to Dr. Amit Chaubey and it 

was ever received by Dr. Amit Chaubey. Neither the envelope in which it 

was received by post has been produced by the complainant. Furthermore, 

perusal of the said letter shows that there is no signature of the sender of the 

letter on the said letter mark B. It is also not proved whether the said letter 

is in the handwriting of the alleged respondent Dr. Pradeep Kumar Sharma 

or not. Secondly, the complainant is relying on the copy of SMS. The 

complainant submits that he and his wife are using the same mobile but the 

complainant has not proved any document or has not brought any certificate 

from the service provider to show that the SMS has been received from the 

mobile of the respondent Dr. Pradeep Kumar Sharma in this case. It is also 

not clear that the mobile phone No.9532819417 belongs to Dr. Pradeep 

Kumar Sharma or not. Thus, in these circumstances the said SMS has been 

received from the mobile phone No. 9532819417 is not proved by the CC No.55/11 Dhirender Kumar Sharma v. Dr. Pradeep Kumar Page 4 of 5 complainant. The complainant has not filed any certificate from the service 

provider that the said message was received on the date and time as 

mentioned by the complainant in his complaint. It is already clear from the 

version of the complaint that there are strained relations between him and his 

son­in­law, the respondent. Considering the facts and circumstance and above said 

discussions, the complainant is not able to prove the ingredients of section 

499 and section 500 IPC as to how his reputation has been lowered in the 

estimation of others is also not proved by the complainant. The message has 

been received by the complainant himself in this case so there is no 

publication to any other person other than the complainant. Hence, no case 

is made out against the respondent Dr. Pradeep Kumar Sharma. No fruitful 

purpose would be served by summoning the alleged accused as sufficient 

material to show any kind of defamation is not produced by the complainant. The complaint stands dismissed as not maintainable in want of 
sufficient proof. File be consigned to record room.

Dictated and Announced in open Court (Susheel Bala Dagar)
on this 01st September, 2012 Metropolitan Magistrate/NE­05
 Karkardooma Courts/Delhi CC No.55/11 Dhirender Kumar Sharma v. Dr. Pradeep Kumar Page 5 of 5