Whether an election petition filed to set aside the election

under Section 102(1)(d)(i) of Kerala Panchayat Raj Act can be

treated as an election petition to set aside the election under Section 102(1)(ca) ? Whether without pleading as to how Form

2A furnished under Section 52(1A) of Kerala Panchayat Raj Act

is fake, a petitioner is entitled to adduce evidence to prove that

the details furnished are fake and even if such evidence is

adduced, whether court can set aside the election based on that

evidence without pleading? 2. First respondent filed an election petition before

Munsiff Court, Hosdurg challenging the election of petitioner to

Ward No.XIII of Ballal Gama Panchayat. Petitioner was

declared the elected candidate, on the election conducted on

27.9.2005. First respondent was the only other candidate.

Election petition was filed to set aside the election on the ground Section 102(1) (d) (i) and 102(1) (d) (iii) . The learned Munsiff WPC31409/2006 2 under Ext.P4 order, on the evidence of PWs 1 and 2, RW1 and

Ext.A1 to A3 and Ext.X1 to X3(a) set aside the election under Section 102(1)(d)(i) holding that nomination of the petitioner

was improperly accepted. First respondent was declared the

duly elected candidate. Though petitioner challenged the order

before District Court, Kasargod in C.M.A. 32 of 2006, learned

District Judge on re-appreciation of evidence confirmed Ext.P4

order and dismissed the appeal under Ext.P6 order. It is

challenged in this petition filed under Article 227 of Constitution

of India. 3. Learned senior counsel appearing for petitioner

argued that there was no pleading that Form 2A furnished by

the petitioner was fake. It was pointed out that the challenge

against Form 2A submitted by the petitioner as per the

pleadings in the election petition was that petitioner did not

show properties allegedly owned by her in Ballal Panchayat

area, Kozhikode and other districts and she has not filled up

some other columns. There was no pleading that petitioner was

having any cash or Bank deposit and they were not mentioned in

Form 2A or was suppressed. It was argued that without

pleading and evidence, trial court and the Appellate Court WPC31409/2006 3 relying on the evidence of petitioner as RW1, found that she was

having an account in a Service Co-operative Bank and a deposit

of Rs.100/- and that fact was not disclosed in Form 2A and

therefore Form 2A is not complete and as a result petitioner

should have been disqualified. For that reason it was found that

her nomination paper was improperly accepted and

consequently set aside the election as provided under Section

102 (1)(d)(i) of the Act. As first respondent was the only other

candidate she was declared as the elected candidate. The

learned senior counsel argued that under Section 91(a) of the

Act details of the material fact which is to be relied on to set

aside the election must be pleaded concisely and if the election

is to be set aside on the ground that Form 2A does not contain

the details of Bank deposit it should have been specifically

pleaded and in the absence of pleadings courts below were not

justified in looking into the evidence of RW1 and that too in

cross-examination when even the election petitioner when

examined as PW1 had no such case to set aside the election on

that ground. Reliance was placed on the decision of the Apex

Court in T.H. Musthafa v. M.P. Varghese (1999 (8) SCC 692) and of this Court in P.C. George v. Returning Officer & WPC31409/2006 4 Ors. (1987 (2) KLT 842) and Balan v. Manoharan Master

(1988 (1) KLT 717). It was argued that petitioner was called

upon to defend the election petition to set aside the election

petition on the grounds of improper acceptance of nomination

paper and not on the ground that details furnished in Form 2A

was fake and Form 2A was not challenged on the ground that

petitioner did not disclose any bank deposit and without

necessary pleadings the election cannot be set aside on that

ground. It was argued that if there is any omission in Form 2A

that is not a ground to set aside the election and election could

be set aside only if clause (ca) of 102(1) is attracted and to

attract the said clause, details furnished in Form 2A must be

fake. Reliance was placed on the decision of this court in Joseph v. Kuriakose (2007 (2) KLT 242). 4. The learned counsel appearing for the first

respondent relied on the decision of Apex Court in Shaligram

Shrivastava v. Naresh Singh Patel (2003 (2) SCC 176) and

argued that even when Representation of People Act was not

amended incorporating filing of a statement containing details

similar to the one under Section 52 (1A) of Kerala Panchayat

Raj Act, Apex Court declared that without filing a proforma as WPC31409/2006 5 directed by the Returning Officer nomination cannot be

accepted as the candidate is disqualified. Relying on the

decision of Apex Court in People's Union for Civil Liberties v.

Union of India (2003(4) SCC 399) it was argued that it is to

safeguard the purity of election and the sanctity of the

democratic system Section 52(1A) was introduced and when

Form 2A furnished by the petitioner as provided under Section

52(1A) is not complete and the details of Bank deposit was

suppressed as found by the courts below, petitioner is

disqualified and acceptance of her nomination paper was

improper and on that ground election is liable to be set aside. 5. The election was set aside by the learned Munsiff only

on the ground under Section 102(1)(d)(i) . The order was also

upheld by the learned District Judge on the same ground.

Therefore, in this petition it is not necessary to consider whether

the election is liable to be set aside on any other ground. 6. The election petition was allowed and the election

was set aside on the ground under Section 102(1)(d)(i) for the

sole reason that Form 2A furnished by the petitioner as provided

under sub-section (1A) of Section 52 was defective and hence

acceptance of the nomination paper of the petitioner was WPC31409/2006 6 improper and the nomination paper should have been rejected.

Specific finding of the trial court and the appellate court is that

Form 2A furnished by the petitioner does not disclose any cash

or Bank deposit as admitted by the petitioner at the time of her

evidence as RW1. Learned counsel appearing for first

respondent vehemently argued that when evidence of petitioner

as RW1 establishes that she has an account in Maloth Service

Co-operative Bank and this fact was suppressed in Ext.X2(a)

and X3(a) Form 2A submitted by the petitioner and Form 2A is a

fake one and therefore acceptance of nomination paper with

fake Form 2A is improper and therefore as rightly found by the

courts below, her election is liable to be set aside for improper

acceptance of the nomination paper. The learned counsel also

argued that when there are only two candidates and the

nomination paper of petitioner was improperly accepted which

should have been rejected, only first respondent is the

remaining candidate and therefore without any other evidence

court is justified in declaring first respondent as the elected

candidate and in the circumstances of the case there is no

necessity to prove that by improper acceptance of the

nomination paper, election of the petitioner was materially WPC31409/2006 7 effected. Reliance was placed on the decision of the Apex Court

in Durai Muthuswamy v. N. Nachiappan and others (1973

SC 1419). Reliance was also placed on the decision of the Apex

Court in Shaligram Sreevasthava 's case (supra) where the Apex

Court upheld the rejection of the nomination paper for the

failure of the candidate to appear for scrutiny and also for not

submitting the proforma duly filled up as directed by the

Returning Officer. Relying on a decision of the learned Single

Judge in Arshad v. Nellancheri Mustaffa (2007 (3) KLT 785) it was argued that when petitioner did not fill up the

column regarding the cash and money and did not show the

bank deposit in Form 2A, it is to be taken that details furnished

in Form 2A is a fake. Learned counsel argued that evidence of

RW1 relied on by the courts below can be looked into, when it

is proved that petitioner had Bank deposit and she either

suppressed that fact or failed to disclose the details of the

deposit in Form 2A. It was argued that in the light of the

evidence, courts below rightly set aside the election of the

petitioner and declared first respondent as the elected

candidate. 7. Section 52(1A) was introduced in the parent Act by WPC31409/2006 8 The Kerala Panchayat Raj (Fifth Amendment Act) Act 30 of 2005. Section 102 was also thereby amended introducing clause (ca) in Section 102(1) of the Act. Section 52(1A) reads:- 8. Consequent to that amendment, Rules framed under

the Kerala Panchayat Raj (Conduct of Election) Rules, 1995 was

amended incorporating sub rule 2(a) which reads as follows:- WPC31409/2006 9 9. Rule 52(1 A) of the Act provides for submitting the

details regarding the "educational qualification, criminal cases

in which he is involved at the time of submission of nomination,

property owned by him and other members of his families,

liabilities including arrears due from him to any public sector

undertaking or government or local self government institutions

and whether disqualified for defection under Kerala Local

Authorities (Prohibition of Defection) Act, 1999 . It is to be

submitted in the form and manner as prescribed. Sub rule 2(a)

of Rule 6 of Kerala Panchayat Raj (Conduct of Election) Rules

provide that the details are to be submitted in Form No.2A. 10. Form 2A is the prescribed form as provided under Section 52(1A) . The respective columns are to be filled up and

submitted by the candidate along with his nomination paper. It

is to be born in mind that Section 52(1A) was introduced in the

parent Act on 28.8.2005 just prior to the election. Petitioner

submitted his nomination paper on 5.9.2005. Ext.X3(a), the

Form No. 2A, is dated 5.9.2005. It was also submitted on the

same day. Ext.X3(a) was not complete as petitioner had filled up WPC31409/2006 10 only the columns relating to her ornaments and immovable

property. Realizing the defect, petitioner furnished Ext.X3

Form No.2A on the very next day on 6.9.2005. Therefore,

though there are defects in Ext.X3(a), it is not very relevant in

view of Ext.X3 Form No.2A furnished by the petitioner. In

Ext.X3 Form No.2A, petitioner had filled up all the details

except with regard to the cash in hand. Column regarding cash

was kept blank. In the column regarding details of deposits in

bank and non banking institutions, petitioner recorded them as

Nil. It is based on the evidence of petitioner as RW1. Courts

below found that even though petitioner is having a deposit of

Rs.100/- in Maloth Service Co-operative Bank she did not

declare that deposit and therefore Form No.2A is incorrect and

there is defect in Form No.2A and hence acceptance of that

nomination paper was improper. Trial court also found that the

non mentioning of that deposit is suppression of fact. 11. Section 52(1A) provides for submission of the details

provided therein in the prescribed form. The Act does not

provide that defect in Form No.2A is a ground to set aside the

election. Under clause(ca) of sub-section (1) of Section 102 ,

election could be set aside if the details furnished by the elected WPC31409/2006 11 candidate in Form No.2A were fake. It does not provide that if

the details furnished are not correct the nomination paper is to

be rejected or the election is liable to be set aside. Though Section 35 provides the disqualifications, incorrect filling up of

Form No.2A is not a reason for disqualification. Section 55 of

the Act provides for scrutiny of nominations. Sub section 2 of Section 55 provide the grounds for rejection of the nomination

paper. Under clause (b) of Section 55 if there has been a failure

to comply with any of the provisions of Section 52 and 53 the

nomination paper could be rejected. In spite of introduction of Section 52(1A) in the parent Act, Section 52(1A) was not

incorporated in sub section 2(b) of Section 55 . Hence if

provisions of Section 52(1A) was complied by the candidate by

submitting Form 2A, his nomination paper cannot be rejected. 12. Learned Single Judge in Arshad v. Nellancheri

Mustafa (2007 (3) KLT 785) considered the effect of

furnishing false details in Form No.2A and it was held that if

any candidate fails to furnish any one of the details or furnishes

a detail which is false to his knowledge, he is not qualified for

chosen to fill a seat in a Panchayat in any level. His Lordship

held : WPC31409/2006 12 But in that case also, in the election petition there was no

pleading of violation of the provisions of Section 52(1A) . It was

therefore held that election cannot be set aside on the ground

under Section 102(1)(ca) . The learned Judge, held: 13. The effect of non compliance with the provisions of Section 52(1A) and whether it is a ground to set aside the

election was considered by this Court in Joseph v. Kuriakose (2007 (2) KLT 242). It was held: The only contention was that as first respondent

 failed to comply with the provisions of Section

 52(1A) and so nomination paper should have

 been rejected. There was no case of any other

 violation of Section 52 or 53 except the

 provisions of sub-section(1A) of S.52 . If the

 candidate submitted a nomination paper and

 along with the nomination paper, furnished

 Form 2A with the details contemplated therein,

 Returning Officer is not competent to reject the

 nomination paper. If that be so, it cannot be a

 ground to set aside election under Section 102

 (1)(d)(i) " 14. As stated earlier there is no pleading that details

furnished in Form No.2A submitted by petitioner were fake and WPC31409/2006 16 so the election is to be set aside under Section 102(1)(ca) of the

Act. On the other hand pleading was only that Form No.2A

furnished by the petitioner under sub-section (1A) of Section 52 of the Act contains incorrect or false details. As rightly pointed

out by the learned senior counsel, the challenge against Form

No.2A are pleaded in paragraph 4 and 5 of the election petition.

What was pleaded in paragraph 4 was that petitioner has not

filled up or gave all the information required to be given under

Rule 52(1A) of Kerala Panchayat Raj (Conducting of Elections)

Rules and the Returning Officer improperly accepted the

nomination paper even though in Form 2A the details were not

fully furnished. The pleading was as follows: The specific pleading in paragraph 5 is as follows: What was pleaded was only with regard to the non disclosure of

the properties owned by the petitioner. The case was that

petitioner owns property in Hosdurg Taluk, Ballal Panchayat

area and also in Kozhikode and other districts and she

suppressed the fact of owning properties in different places

deliberately for making an unlawful gain. There is no whisper

anywhere in the election petition that petitioner was having any

cash in hand or Bank deposit and the details of Bank deposits

were suppressed by the petitioner in Form No.2A and therefore WPC31409/2006 19 particulars furnished in Form No.2A are false. Even when first

respondent was examined as PW1, she has no case that

petitioner was having any Bank deposits and that was

suppressed in Ext.X3 Form No.2A or that the details furnished in

Form No.2A were fake. 15. Sub rule 2 of Rule 9 expressly provides that copy of

the details submitted by the candidate under sub rule 2a of Rule

6 shall be published as provided under sub rule 1 of Rule 9 and

in addition copies thereof shall be issued to other candidates and

media free of cost. In such circumstances if the details

furnished are fake or details are suppressed, petitioner has

sufficient opportunity to find out and plead the same in the

election petition. Moreover what was pleaded in the election

petition was that all the defects in Form No.2A were known to

the election petitioner at the time of scrutiny of nomination

paper and the defects were pointed out to the returning officer

but the objection was ignored or rejected and the nomination

paper was improperly accepted. There was no case that any

detail which was not known to the election petitioner came to

her knowledge later. In such circumstances it was incumbent

upon her to plead the suppression of details of bank deposit in WPC31409/2006 20 the Form No.2A furnished by the petitioner if in fact Form No.2A

is challenged on suppression of that fact. Therefore, as rightly

pointed out by the learned senior counsel, first respondent

cannot rely on the evidence of petitioner as RW1, where in

cross-examination she admitted that she has an account in

Maloth Service Co-operative Bank with the minimum deposit of

Rs.100/- which was not being operated. 16. The learned counsel appearing for first respondent

relying on Section 91 of the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act argued

that under clause (a) and (b) of Section 91 makes a distinction

between an election petition challenging the election on corrupt

practice and other grounds. The argument is that in an election

petition the election petitioner has to plead all full particulars of

corrupt practice which he alleges, including as full a statement

as possible of the names of the parties alleged to have

committed such a practice and the date and place of the

commission of each such practice as provided under clause (b)

of sub rule 1 and in other cases there need only be a concise

statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies as

provided under clause (a) of sub rule 1. Relying on Harikirath

Singh v. Amrinder Singh (2005 (13) SCC 511) it was WPC31409/2006 21 argued that there is difference between material facts provided

under clause (a) and full particulars provided under clause (b) of Section 91(1) . The relevant provisions in Section 91 read as

follows: Provided that where the petitioner alleges any

 corrupt practice, the petition shall also be

 accompanied by an affidavit in the prescribed

 form in support of the allegation of such WPC31409/2006 22 corrupt practice and the particulars thereof " 17. When first respondent is challenging the election

under the ground as provided under Section 102(1)(d)(i) of the

Act, on the allegation that the nomination paper of petitioner

was improperly accepted, the material fact necessary to bring it

to the notice of the petitioner is the fact as to how the

nomination paper was improperly accepted. If so the concise

statement mandated under clause (a) of sub rule 1 of Rule 91 is

the factum of suppression of details or furnishing of false details

in Form No.2A. If so the concise statement of material fact

should have been about the furnishing of false details of bank

deposits or non furnishing of details of bank deposits which

tantamount to a suppression as canvassed by the first

respondent. But election petition does not contain a pleading on

this fact at all. Instead allegation was only on the details

furnished on immovable properties. 18. Apex Court considering the necessity of pleading of

material facts in Harikirath Singh 's case (supra) held: 19. Apex Court in Ajayakumar Pocia v. Shyam And

Others (AIR 2004 SC 1941) considered the absence of plea

that elected candidate is a member of scheduled caste, though

the other averments show that he was not a member of the

scheduled caste. Their Lordships held that the other averments

cannot be treated as a concise statement containing requisite

material facts to set aside the election on the ground that he

was elected as a member of scheduled caste, though he was not

a member. 20. In Sushilkumar v. Rakesh Kumar (2003 SCC 673) Apex Court held: 21. What is provided under clause (1)(a) of Section 91 is

a concise statement of the material facts on which petitioner WPC31409/2006 26 relies to set aside the election as sought for in the election

petition filed by him. If the election is sought to be set aside

under ground Section 102(1)(ca) what is to be pleaded by the

petitioner is the material facts based on which he contends that

the details furnished by the elected candidate under sub-section

(1A) of Section 52 were fake. What is to be pleaded is those

specific details so furnished which according to him were fake.

Petitioner should necessarily plead that the details so furnished

should be such and such and what was furnished is different and

so the details were fake. If the election is sought to be set aside

under clause (d)(i) of Section 102(1) , what is to be pleaded is the

material facts on which the nomination paper was improperly

accepted. What is pleaded in paragraph 4 and 5 of the election

petition is not that petitioner was having deposit in any Bank

much less in a Service Co-operative Bank and it was not

furnished in Form 2A and therefore the nomination paper

should not have been accepted. The pleading was only that

petitioner is owning immovable properties in Hosdurg Taluk,

Kozhikode District and other districts and those facts were

suppressed. It cannot be said that the said pleading is a concise

statement of the case that petitioner is having Bank deposit and WPC31409/2006 27 it was suppressed in Form No.2A and therefore Form 2A is a

fake. In such circumstances Courts below were not justified in

setting aside the election of the petitioner to Ward No.XIII of

Ballal Grama Panchayat or declaring first respondent as the

election petitioner based on the evidence of petitioner herself as

RW1 in the absence of pleading. The writ petition is therefore

allowed. Ext.P4 and P6 orders setting the election of the first

respondent are quashed. M. SASIDHARAN NAMBIAR,
 JUDGE

Okb/-