The present challenge is against an order bearing no.16

 dated November 26, 2018 passed by the Sub-Divisional Officer,

 Kakdwip, cancelling the schedule tribes certificate awarded to the

 present writ petitioners. Learned counsel for the petitioners argues on the strength

of a decision reported at AIR 1995 SC 94 ( Kumari Madhuri Patil and

another vs. Addl . Commissioner, Tribal Development and others) that

the procedure to be followed in awarding and cancelling such

certificates was laid down in the said judgment . A detailed

consideration of the customary beliefs and practices as well as the

inhabitants of intractable terran regions of the country who were

kept away from the mainstream of national life and with their

traditional moorings were to be taken into consideration in

ascertaining whether a person belongs to the schedule tribes.

Detailed guidelines were laid down in the said judgment as to how

such certificates should be issued or cancelled and the several

considerations which were to be taken into account before arriving at

a decision as to the social status of the concerned person vis-à-vis

his/her claim to be a member of the tribe or tribal community. It is argued by learned counsel for the petitioner that the

petitioner is a member of the 'Bagti" community, which is a sub-

group under the Bhumij/Munda tribal community and as such the

scheduled tribe certificate was rightly granted in favour of the

petitioners. In support of such contentions, learned counsel further

submits that there are textual authorities which are of the opinion

that the 'Bagti' community, as distinct from the 'Bagdi' community,

is a sub-community under the Munda tribe. Learned counsel further points out that, by a cryptic order,

the scheduled tribe certificate issued to the petitioners was cancelled

by the Sub-Divisional Officer, thereby violating the specific

provisions under Section 8A of the West Bengal Schedule Castes and

Schedule Tribes (Identification) Act, 1994. It is submitted that the

order of cancellation is vitiated on that score as well. Learned

counsel for the petitioners also relies on a judgment reported at

(2007) 12 SCC 796 ( GM, Indian Bank vs. R. Rani and another )

wherein it was held that the judgment of Madhuri Patil (supra) laid

down guidelines or law, which were to be given effect to and were not

merely directory or persuasive in nature. Learned counsel appearing for the State-respondents

submits that a reference ought to be made to the State Scrutiny

Committee under Section 8A of the 1994 Act and the cancellation of

the certificate directly by the Sub-Divisional Officer without seeking a

report from such Committee was apparently illegal. Learned counsel appearing for the private respondent no.9

submits that a detailed enquiry was held and the matter was referred

by previous orders of the Sub-Divisional Officer to the Cultural

Research Institute, Backward Class Welfare Department,

Government of West Bengal, on the basis of the report furnished by

which authority, the scheduled tribe certificate was cancelled. 4 Learned counsel for the private respondent no.9 seeks to

file an affidavit in opposition at this juncture. However, such prayer

is refused in view of the fact that previously the matter had been

fixed today for hearing of the writ petition itself along with stay

application and a direction had been given by a co-ordinate Bench

for filing an affidavit in opposition within two weeks from the date of

such order as long back as on December 17, 2018, which

opportunity cannot be reopened for the private respondent at this

mature juncture, particularly in view of no copy of such affidavit in

opposition having been served on the respondents even till today. Learned counsel for the private respondent seeks to

impress upon this Court that the petitioners themselves made an

application seeking to be classified under the schedule castes

category and as such their scheduled tribe classification ought to go

on that ground alone. Learned counsel for the private respondent cites a

judgment reported at AIR 2008 SC 3266 ( Regional Manager, Central

Bank of India Vs. Madhulika Guruprasad Dahir and others ) for the

proposition that the delay in making reference to the Scrutiny

Committee for verification of the caste certificate, as also the delay on

the part of the Scrutiny Committee in such verification, does not per

se vitiate the order of termination of services of an employee, even

when the certificate is ultimately found to be false. The said 5 judgment was rendered in the context of the employee having

rendered services to the employer for over twenty years and on the

question as to whether it would be equitable to cancel her

appointment, when admittedly in the first instance the employee was

not eligible for such appointment. It was held in the said judgment that the issues were no longer res integra, since the implications of

misuse of the benefits conferred by the Constitution on a particular

section or sections of the citizenry were highlighted by the Supreme

Court in Madhuri Patil (supra). It was said that the admission

wrongly gained or appointment wrongly obtained on the basis of false

social status certificate necessarily has the effect of depriving the

genuine Scheduled Casts or Scheduled Tribes and OBC candidates,

as enjoined in the Constitution, of the benefits conferred on them by

the Constitution. As such, it was held that the appointment

obtained by fraud or misrepresentation should be cancelled even

without waiting for the report of the Scrutiny Committee-in-question. Learned counsel for the private respondent no.9 further

cites an unreported Division Bench judgment of this Court dated

September 22, 2017 in FMA 607-608 of 2010 ( Sri Biswajit Das Vs.

The State of West Bengal and others ) for the proposition that if either

on a complaint by any person or suo motu, the certificate issuing

authority, upon recording a prima facie satisfaction that a certificate

under the 1994 Act had been obtained by any person by furnishing 6 any false information or by misrepresenting any fact or by

suppression of any material information or by producing any

document which is an act of forgery, may start proceedings for

cancellation, impounding or revocation of the certificate, as the case

may be. It was further held in the said judgment that when a person

who is not a member of scheduled caste/tribe obtained a false

certificate with a view to gain undue advantage to which he is/was

not otherwise entitled, that would amount to commission of fraud,

calling for immediate corrective action so as to prevent subversion of

the Constitutional purpose and no leniency can be shown. It was

further held that the prayer, that the matter therein ought to have

been referred to the committee-in-question, need not be allowed in

view of the other point raised in the said case, that the certificate

issuing authority had assigned appropriate reasons for cancellation

of the certificate issued in favour of the appellant. Learned counsel for the State-respondents cites an

unreported judgment of a co-ordinate Bench of this Court dated

March 30, 2015 passed in MAT 2117 of 2014 ( Darvell Investment &

Leasing (I) Pvt. Ltd. and others Vs State of West Bengal and others )

wherein it was held that the State Scrutiny Committee is empowered

to enquire into a complaint of illegal cancellation of caste certificate

by the certificate issuing authority under Section 9(1) of the Act of

1994 and/or to verify the social status of the certificate holder in 7 relation thereto. It was further held in the said judgment that a

conjoint reading of the powers of the Committee enumerated in Section 8A(3) and Section 8A(1) of the 1994 Act would make it clear

that the intention of the legislature was not to restrict the power of

the State Scrutiny Committee merely to verify social status of

persons in whose favour a certificate has been illegally issued under Section 5 . The committee, it was held, is empowered to look into all

contraventions of any provisions of the Act. An illegal cancellation of

a caste certificate issued under Section 5 of the Act to a member of

the SC/ST community without following the procedure laid down in Section 9(1) read with Rule 3 of the State Rules is undoubtedly a

contravention of the provisions of the Act which would be amenable

to the supervisory jurisdiction of the Committee under Section

8A(3)(c)(e) and (i) of the Act. In this context, the relevant sections ought to be referred

to. Section 8A and Section 9 of the 1994 Act read, respectively, as

follows: 9. Power to cancel, impound or revoke certificate.- (1) If the certificate

 issuing authority is satisfied that a certificate under this Act has been

 obtained by any person by furnishing any false information or by

 misrepresenting any fact or by suppressing any material information

 or by producing any document which is an act of forgery, it may

 cancel, impound or revoke such certificate in such manner as may be

 prescribed. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), if the

 Committee is satisfied that a certificate under this ct has been obtained 10 by any person by furnishing any false information or by misrepresenting

 any fact or by suppressing any material information or by producing any

 document which is an act of forgery, it may issue a direction to the

 certificate issuing authority, in such manner as may be prescribed, to

 cancel, impound or evoke such certificate and, on receipt of such

 direction, the certificate issuing authority shall, by order in writing,

 cancel, impound or revoke such certificate. Section 8A (3) envisages that, subject to general or special

order of the State Government, provisions of this Act and the Rules

made thereunder, the Committee shall have certain powers. Such

powers, inter alia, include the verification of the social status of a

person in whose favour a certificate is issued under Section 5 of the

1994 Act, as well as the power of making an enquiry in connection

with the contravention of any provision of the Act, to issue notice to

any person or authority in such manner as may be prescribed and to

call for information from any person or authority for the purpose of

satisfying itself whether there has been any contravention of any

provision of this Act or any rule or order made or direction issued

thereunder. Further powers are given, as quoted above, to the said

Committee under Section 8A . On the other hand, Section 9 empowers the certificate

issuing authority to cancel, impound or revoke the scheduled castes

and scheduled tribes certificate if the authority is satisfied that a

certificate under the Act has been obtained by any person by 11 furnishing any false information or misrepresentation or suppression

of any material information or by producing any document which is

an act of forgery. Sub-Rule 2 of Section 9 categorically provides that,

notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), if the

Committee is satisfied that a certificate under this Act has been

obtained by any person by furnishing false information or by

misrepresenting any fact or by suppressing any material information

or by producing any document which is an act of forgery, it may

issue a direction to the certificate issuing authority, in such manner

as may be prescribed, to cancel, impound or revoke such certificate

and, on receipt of such direction, the certificate issuing authority

shall, by order in writing, cancel, impound or revoke such certificate. Taken in conjunction with the Rules of 1995 framed under

the said Act, it is seen that Rule 5 provides for the cancellation,

impounding or revocation of certificates which, virtually, is similar in

language to Section 9(1) . The procedure for cancellation, impounding

or revocation of certificate, however, is stipulated in Rule 3 of Rules

1995 which is as follows: It is evident that whenever it appears to a certificate issuing

authority, on complaints or suo motu, that a person, in whose favour

a certificate has been issued under the Act, does not belong to such

caste or tribe, the certificate issuing authority shall hold a

preliminary enquiry by itself or by any officer above the rank of

Inspector of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes Welfare Department,

as may be authorised by it in this behalf, and shall prima facie

satisfy itself as to the truth or otherwise of the complaints as

aforesaid, record the reasons of its satisfaction as to the truth or

otherwise of the complaints and , if necessary, start proceedings for

cancellation, impounding or revocation of the certificate, as the case

may be. Sub-rule (2) of Rule 3 provides that where any proceedings

have been started under sub-rule (1), the certificate issuing authority

shall, by written notice, ask the person holding the certificate to

deposit the same, in original, in its office and, when a certificate has

been so deposited, a receipt in favour of the person depositing the

certificate shall be issued. Sub-rule (3) provides that the certificate issuing authority

shall, then, issue a notice to the holder of the certificate to show

cause within fifteen days or within a period of shorter duration, as it 14 may think fit, as to why the certificate issued in his favour shall not

be cancelled. The rest of the provisions also deal with the procedure for

cancellation of such certificate. It is well-settled that the Rules

formulated under the aegis of a statute cannot override the

provisions of the statute itself. As such, a harmonious construction

has to be attributed to Rule 3 of Section 9 of 1994 Act. A cursory perusal of Section 9 itself shows that the limited

power of the certificate issuing authority for cancellation,

impounding or revocation of castes operates where the person

holding the certificate furnished false information or committed an

act of misrepresentation of fact, suppressed any material information

or produced any document which was an act of forgery. While

dealing with such cases and only such cases, a certificate issuing

authority can cancel, impound or revoke such certificate, subject to

the provisions of Rule 3 of the 1995 Rules. The provisions of Sub-

Rule (1) of Rule 3 for holding a preliminary enquiry by the issuing

authority itself or by an officer above the rank of Inspector of the

Scheduled Casts and Tribes Welfare Department cannot be

construed to mean that the said preliminary enquiry would be

sacrosanct. The enquiry held by such an officer or the certificate

issuing authority itself have to be on the same footing as to legal

hierarchy and the report given by such officer above the rank of 15 Inspector cannot be held in any manner to be of higher authority

than that prepared by the certificate issuing authority itself. However, a conjoint reading of Section 9 and Section 8A of

the 1994 Act makes it evident that such enquiry can only pertain to

a case of false information, misrepresentation, suppression or forgery

as per Section 9(1) . That apart, sub-section (3) of Section 8A categorically enumerates the powers vested in the State Scrutiny

Committee in that regard. This Court, accordingly, concurs

substantially with the view expressed by co-ordinate Bench in

Darvell Investment & Leasing (I) Pvt. Ltd. inasmuch as the State

Scrutiny Committee has the authority to look into any irregularity or

illegality committed in performing/functioning any act under the

1994 Act and to make an enquiry with regard to contravention of any

provision of the said Act. However, although the judgments of Madhuri Patil (supra)

and the subsequent cited judgment of the Supreme Court following

the same did lay down guidelines in that regard, those are not

relevant in the present context, since in the present lis, the Sub-

Divisional Officer did not enter into the question as to verification as

regards social status, with regard to the tribe to which the petitioner

belongs, at all. Moreover, since the Sub-Divisional Officer did not

refer the matter at all to the State Scrutiny Committee, but did so to

some other authority not having any power under the statute to 16 come to any finding in that regard, the said enquiry by the body to

which the matter was referred to by the Sub-Divisional Officer, being

the Cultural Research Institute, Backward Classes Welfare

Department, Government of West Bengal, cannot be held on a higher

footing , merely on the basis of which report the Sub-Divisional

Officer could have passed the impugned order. Such an enquiry could at best be of circumstantial value

in deciding the matter, but not that not equivalent to a reference to

the State Scrutiny Committee. This Court, in interpreting the

judgment of Darvell Investment & Leasing (I) Pvt. Ltd., seeks to go one

step further and hold that the powers conferred on the State

Scrutiny Committee, do not amount to the powers of an appellate

authority, since an appeal is a creature of statute and has to be

statutorily provided, this Court has jurisdiction under Article 226 of

the Constitution of India to enter into the merits of the grievances

raised in the present writ petition, since there is no provision in the

1994 Act creating a right of appeal from the cancellation of a

scheduled tribe certificate by the certificate issuing authority. However, the impugned order itself is vitiated on the score

that the criteria stipulated for cancellation of a certificate in Section

9(1) of 1994 Act were not invoked or gone into at all. Although the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure are in no

way applicable to the instant case, since the valuable rights of a 17 person in respect of scheduled tribe certificate already granted in

favour of the person is taken away by a cancellation, it is always

open for any authority to apply the principles governing civil matters

for the purpose of adjudicating such valuable rights. In the present

case, the certificate issuing authority is not merely exercising the

power conferred under the 1994 Act as an administrative authority

but functions as a quasi-judicial authority, since the valuable rights

of a person are being taken away, thereby affecting the livelihood as

well as the right to live of the person concerned. Keeping in mind

such conspectus, the principle as laid down in order VI Rule 4 of the

Code of Civil Procedure ought to be borrowed in the present case and

in the absence of specific particulars as to false information,

misrepresentation, suppression or forgery committed by the present

petitioner, and/or enquiry into such questions, it was de hors the

jurisdiction of the Sub-Divisional Officer to cancel the certificate of

the petitioner, within the purview of Section 9(1) of the 1994 Act. Moreover, it was not merely directory, but mandatory to

refer the matter to the State Scrutiny Committee formed under Section 8A of the Act, in view of conjoint reading of sub-section (2) of Section 9 and sub-section (3) of Section 8A of the said Act. Since it is the prerogative and the power of the State

Scrutiny Committee only to verify the social status of a person in

whose favour a certificate is issued under Section 5 and to call for 18 information, make enquiry and to adopt other modalities in that

regard, it was mandatory for the certificate issuing authority, being

the sub-divisional officer in the present case, to refer the matter to

the State Scrutiny Committed instead of the Welfare Board, to which

it was referred. In such view of the matter, since no appeal is

provided for against the order of the Sub-Divisional Officer in the

statute, this writ petition is entertained by this Court. It is evident from the judgments cited on behalf of the

private respondent that of all those pertained to cases which fall

within the scope of Section 9(1) , being suppression of material

information, forgery or the like, and not a case which is governed by Section 8A(3) which pertains to verification of the social status of a

person in whose favour a certificate is already issued under Section 5. Section 8A(3) and section 9(1) of the 1994 Act have to be read

conjointly to attribute meaning to those sections, since it was the

intention of the legislature that in a case where a certificate has been

issued, the prerogative and authority to verify the social status of the

person and, if necessary, to recommend cancellation of the certificate

as envisaged under Section 9(2) , lies with the State Scrutiny

Committee and the said Committee alone. In such view of the matter, the impugned order was de hors

the law and cannot stand a moment's scrutiny. Accordingly, W.P.

No.24655 (W) of 2018 along with CAN 11173 of 2019 are disposed of 19 by setting aside the impugned order passed by the Sub-Divisional

Officer, Kakdwip, being order no.16 dated November 26, 2018, and

all consequential action, if any, taken thereon. It is made clear that this order will not deter the Sub-

Divisional Officer from rehearing the complaint made by the private

respondent upon reference to the State Scrutiny Committee in

accordance with law and if such reference is made the said

Committee, it would look into the matter also in accordance with law

and come to a finding with regard to the social status of the

petitioner and take necessary consequential steps. There will be no order as to costs. Urgent certified website copies of this order, if applied for,

be given to the parties upon compliance with all requisite formalities. (Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya, J. )