1. Heard Sri Srinath Reddy, who appeared on behalf of

Sri Nageshwar Rao Pujari, learned counsel on record for the

petitioner. Also heard the learned Assistant Public Prosecutor,

who is appearing for the Respondent-State. 2. Seeking the Court to enlarge the petitioner, who is

arrayed as Accused No.4 in Crime No.513 of 2022 of Cyber

Crime Police Station, Cyberabad, on bail, the present

Criminal Petition is filed. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the

petitioner has not committed any offence whatsoever more

particularly the offence punishable under Section 67 of the

Information Technology Act, 2008, and that the

petitioner/Accused No.4 is falsely implicated in this case.

Learned counsel also states that petitioner is in judicial

custody since 17.08.2022 and the petitioner is ready to 2 Dr.CSL,J Crl.P.No.8799 of 2022 cooperate with the investigating agency during the course of

investigation and thus, he may be enlarged on bail. 4. Vehemently opposing the said submission, the learned

Assistant Public Prosecutor contends that it is the petitioner

and his gang, who are responsible for the death of an

innocent person and the petitioner and others under the

guise of disbursement of loans, are harassing the innocent

public and number of persons committed suicide due to the

harassment of loan App recoverers. Learned Assistant Public

Prosecutor also states that investigation is still pending. The

submission of learned Assistant Public Prosecutor is that the

petitioner, who belongs to Odisha State, in case is enlarged on

bail, would flew from the clutches of justice and it would not

be possible to trace him out and to produce him before the

Court concerned during the course of trial. 5. The material collected by the investigating agency as per

the remand case diary reveals that post disturbances at

Galwan of Ladakh area of India-China Border between Indian

Army and China Army, the Chinese were targeting Indians by

committing three types of frauds, firstly, luring the Indian 3 Dr.CSL,J Crl.P.No.8799 of 2022 youth and kids through gaming applications, secondly, the

business and investments frauds and thirdly, cheating and

harassing through instant loan applications. The Chinese

Nationals with the help of few greedy Indian Chartered

Accountants registered finance companies at various places

in India by keeping them as directors and opened company

bank accounts and published the Mobile loan Apps offering

petty to large loans to innocent Indians and while making

repayments, they started charging very high rates of interest.

Further, on installation of the mobile loan application in the

phones, the said App would access all the information like

contact list, photos and videos without the knowledge of the

mobile holder and the accessed data is used to harass those

persons in case they do not repay the loan. Due to the said

harassment, the victims get mentally depressed and develops

suicidal tendency. 6. In the case on hand, the deceased Sudhakar installed

the instant mobile loan Apps, took loan and repaid the same,

but he was harassed. Further as per the deal, Accused No.3

transfers the amount to the bank account of the petitioner

and directs him to purchase USDT and other crypto currency 4 Dr.CSL,J Crl.P.No.8799 of 2022 and later directs him to transfer the same to his Binance

address. Accused No.3 offered commission to the petitioner.

For earning easy cash, the petitioner agreed to the said offer

and associated with Accused No.3. Huge transactions are

narrated in the transactions detail list by which amount was

converted as USDT using P2P method. 7. The aforesaid mentioned details go to show that there

are grave allegations against the petitioner. To what extent,

the petitioner is involved in the alleged acts, as rightly

submitted by learned Assistant Public Prosecutor, has to be

verified through thorough investigation. As of now, this Court

does not find any grounds to honour the request of the

petitioner and to enlarge him on bail. 8. The submission of learned Assistant Public Prosecutor

is that investigation is still pending. The allegations, as

rightly projected, are grave in nature. Therefore, this Court is

of the view that the request of petitioner cannot be honoured

at this stage. 9 Resultantly, the Criminal Petition is dismissed. 5 Dr.CSL,J Crl.P.No.8799 of 2022 10. Miscellaneous petitions, if any, pending shall stand

closed. _________________________________________
 Dr.JUSTICE CHILLAKUR SUMALATHA

Date: 06.10.2022

KL/Rds