1. Heard learned counsel for the applicant and learned

 APP for non-applicant No.1/State. Despite service, none

 appears for the non-applicant No.2. Admit. Heard finally by

 consent. .....2/- Judgment

 9 apl210.21 2 2. By this application, the applicant is seeking quashing

of FIR in connection with Crime No.232/2020 registered for

offences under Sections 306 of the IPC and 39 and 42 of the Maharashtra Money Lending Act, 2014 and consequent

proceeding arising out of the same bearing RCC

No.179/2020. 3. The crime is registered on the basis of a report lodged

by the non-applicant No.2 (the complainant) who is wife of

the deceased on allegation that on 4.10.2020, at about 3:00

pm, she received a chit in the house wherein it is mentioned

that her husband has obtained home loan from the applicant

of Rs.80.00 lacs to Rs.85.00 lacs and he has already paid,

from March 2020 to August 2020, amount Rs.13.00 lacs and,

thereafter, also the applicant is harassing him and, therefore,

he is committing suicide and accordingly, he has committed

suicide by hanging himself. On the basis of the said report,

the police have registered the crime against the applicant. .....3/- Judgment

 9 apl210.21 3 4. Learned counsel for the applicant submitted that by

taking into consideration the entire allegation as it is, by no

stretch of imagination, it can be said that there was

harassment at the hands of the applicant and, therefore, the

deceased has committed suicide. He submitted that to attract

offences under Sections 302 and 306 of the IPC, there has to

be material to show that what type of harassment was at the

hands of the applicant. Mere demanding of money, which

was given as hand loan, cannot be said to be abetment at the

hands of the applicant. He submitted that there is no nexus

between the "abetment" and "suicide" committed by the

deceased. In view of that, the application deserves to be

allowed. 5. Per contra, learned APP for the State has strongly

opposed the said contentions and submitted that taking into

consideration the fact that the deceased has already paid

amount Rs.13.00 lacs out of the hand loan amount and the

applicant was harassing the deceased and there was no

 .....4/- Judgment

 9 apl210.21 4 alternative before him to commit the suicide, it is sufficient to

attract offence under Section 306 of the IPC. 6. After hearing both sides and perusing the entire

investigation papers, it reveals that there was money

transaction between the deceased and the applicant. The

deceased has obtained amount Rs.80.00 lacs to 82.00 lacs as

hand loan from the applicant. It is further alleged that in fact

the deceased has obtained only Rs.40.00 lacs and out of that,

Rs.13.00 lacs he has already paid. Thereafter also, there was

ill-treatment at the hands of the applicant and, therefore, the

deceased has committed suicide. 7. The transaction of hand loan is not disputed by the

complainant. 8. As far as allegation against the applicant is concerned,

suicide note shows that the applicant was troubling the

deceased and, therefore, he has committed suicide. Recital of

the suicide note are reproduced as under: 9 apl210.21 5 "lqlkbZM uksV
eh gsear [kjkCks fyghrks dh eh xqykc nqcs ;kaps dMwu iSls O;ktkus ?ksrys gksrs o
ekxhy 3 o"kkZr toGikl 80 yk[k rs 85 yk[k :i;s O;kt fnys vkf.k
vkrk ekpZ 2020 rs vkWxLV 2020 Ik;Zar lq/nk 13 yk[k :i;s O;kt fnys
ijarq vkrk eh nsow 'kdr ukgh- R;kus O;ktkoj ijr 10000@& :i;s izR;sd
fnol ;k izek.ks O;kt ykor vkgs vkf.k iS';klkBh [kqi =kl nsr vkgs- 9. In the light of the above facts and circumstances,

question remains whether demanding of money from the

deceased, which is given by the applicant, is sufficient to say

that the applicant has abetted him to commit suicide. .....6/- Judgment

 9 apl210.21 6 10. Section 306 (Section 108 of the Bharatiya Nyaya

Sanhita, 2023) of the Indian Penal Code defines abetment of

suicide, which reads thus: 11. Section 107 of the Indian Penal Code ( Section 45 of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023) defines abetment of a

thing, which reads thus: First.--Instigates any person to do that thing; or

 .....7/- Judgment

 9 apl210.21 7 Secondly.--Engages with one or more other
 person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing
 of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes
 place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in
 order to the doing of that thing; or

 Thirdly.--Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal
 omission, the doing of that thing. Explanation 1.--A person who, by willful
 misrepresentation, or by willful concealment of a
 material fact which he is bound to disclose,
 voluntarily causes or procures, or attempts to
 cause or procure, a thing to be done, is said to
 instigate the doing of that thing. Illustration

 A, a public officer, is authorized by a warrant
 from a Court of Justice to apprehend Z, B,
 knowing that fact and also that C is not Z, wilfully
 represents to A that C is Z, and thereby
 intentionally causes A to apprehend C. Here
 abets by instigation the apprehension of C.

 .....8/- Judgment

 9 apl210.21 8 Explanation 2.--Whoever, either prior to or at the
 time of the commission of an act, does anything
 in order to facilitate the commission of that act,
 and thereby facilitates the commission thereof, is
 said to aid the doing of that act. 12. Section 108 of the Indian Penal reads thus: A is guilty of abetting B to commit murder. (b) A instigates B to murder D. B in pursuance of
 the instigation stabs D. D recovers from the
 wound. A is guilty of instigating B to commit
 murder. Explanation 3.-- It is not necessary that the
 person abetted should be capable by law of
 committing an offence, or that he should have the
 same guilty intention or knowledge as that of the
 abettor, or any guilty intention or knowledge.

 Illustrations (a) A, with a guilty intention, abets a child or a
 lunatic to commit an act which would be an
 offence, if committed by a person capable by law
 of committing an offence, and having the same

 .....10/- Judgment

 9 apl210.21 10 intention as A. Here A, whether the act be
 committed or not, is guilty of abetting an offence. (b) A, with the intention of murdering Z,
 instigates B, a child under seven years of age, to
 do an act which causes Z's death. B, in
 consequence of the abetment, does the act in the
 absence of A and thereby causes Z's death. Here,
 though B was not capable by law of committing an
 offence, A is liable to be punished in the same
 manner as if B had been capable by law of
 committing an offence, and had committed
 murder, and he is therefore subject to the
 punishment of death. (c) A instigates B to set fire to a dwelling-house,
 B, in consequence of the unsoundness of his mind,
 being incapable of knowing the nature of the act,
 or that he is doing what is wrong or contrary to
 law, sets fire to the house in consequence of A's
 instigation. B has committed no offence, but A is
 guilty of abetting the offence of setting fire to a
 dwelling-house, and is liable to the punishment,
 provided for that offence. .....11/- Judgment

 9 apl210.21 11 (d) A, intending to cause a theft to be committed,
 instigates B to take property belonging to Z out of
 Z's possession. A induces B to believe that the
 property belongs to A. B takes the property out of
 Z's possession, in good faith, believing it to be A's
 property. B, acting under this misconception, does
 not take dishonestly, and therefore does not
 commit theft. But A is guilty of abetting theft, and
 is liable to the same punishment as if B had
 committed theft. Explanation 4.-- The abetment of an offence
 being an offence, the abetment of such an
 abetment is also as offence. Illustration

 A instigates B to instigate C to murder Z.
 accordingly instigates C to murder Z, and
 commits that offence in consequence of B's
 instigation. B is liable to be punished for his
 offence with the punishment for murder; and, as A
 instigated B to commit the offence, A is also liable
 to the same punishment. .....12/- Judgment

 9 apl210.21 12 Explanation 5.-- It is not necessary to the
 commission of the offence of abetment by
 conspiracy that the abettor should concert the
 offence with the person who commits it. It is
 sufficient if he engages in the conspiracy in
 pursuance of which the offence is committed.

 Illustration

 A concerts with B a plan for poisoning Z. It is
 agreed that A shall administer the poison. B then
 explains the plan to C mentioning that a third
 person is to administer the poison, but without
 mentioning A's name. C agrees to procure the
 poison, and procures and delivers it to B for the
 purpose of its being used in the manner
 explained. A administers the poison; Z dies in
 consequence. Here, though A and C have not
 conspired together, yet C has been engaged in the
 conspiracy in pursuance of which Z has been
 murdered. C has therefore committed the offence
 defined in this section and is liable to the
 punishment for murder." .....13/- Judgment

 9 apl210.21 13 13. Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code talks about

abetment of suicide and states that whoever abets the

commission of suicide of another person, he/she shall be

punished with imprisonment of either description for a term

not exceeding ten years and shall also be liable to fine. The

said Section penalizes abetment of commission of suicide. To

charge someone under this Section, the prosecution must

prove that the accused played a role in the suicide.

Specifically, the accused's actions must align with one of the

three criteria detailed in Section 107 of the Indian Penal

Code. This means the accused either encouraged the

individual to take their life, conspired with others to ensure

the person committed suicide. 14. A question arises as to when is a person said to have

instigated another. The word "instigate" means to goad or

urge forward provoke, incite or encourage to do "an act" 15. It is well settled that in order to amount to abetment,

there must be mens rea. Without knowledge or intention,

there cannot be any abetment. The knowledge and intention

must relate to the act said to be abetted which in this case, is

the act of committing suicide. Therefore, in order to

constitute abetment, there must be direct incitement to do

culpable act. 16. In Ramesh Kumar vs. State of Chattisgarh , reported in AIR

2001 SC 383, this Court has analysed different meanings of

"instigation". The relevant para of the said judgment is reproduced

herein: 17. Thus abetment involves a mental process of instigating a

person or intentionally aiding a person in doing of a thing. Without

a positive act on the part of the accused to instigate or aid in

committing suicide, conviction cannot be sustained. 18. In the case of Sanju @ Sanjay Singh Sengar v. State of M.P. ,

reported in (2002) 5 SCC 371, the Hon'ble Apex Court extensively

dealt with the concept of 'abetment' in the context of the offence

punishable under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code. In that

case, the allegation against the accused/appellant therein was that

he had abetted the commission of suicide of his sister's husband

one Chander Bhushan. The facts reveals that there were

matrimonial disputes between sister of the appellant/accused and

her husband and in connection with the said disputes, the

appellant had allegedly threatened and abused Chander Bhushan. .....16/- Judgment

 9 apl210.21 16 Chander Bhushan committed suicide and the suicide was attributed

by the prosecution to the quarrel that had taken place between the

appellant and the said Chander Bhushan, a day prior. It was alleged

that the appellant had used abusive language against said Chander

Bhushan and had told him "to go and die". The appellant, who had

been chargesheeted for an offence punishable under Section 306 of

the Indian Penal Code, filed a Petition under Section 482 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure, for quashing the proceedings against

him, but his Petition was dismissed by the High Court. While

allowing the appeal, the Hon'ble Apex Court, inter alia, observed as

follows : 19. Thus, a direct influence or an oblique impact with the acts

or utterances of the accused caused or created in the mind of the

 .....17/- Judgment

 9 apl210.21 17 deceased and which draw him to suicide will not be sufficient to

constitute offence of abetment of suicide. A fetal impulse or ill-

fated thoughts of the suicide, however unfortunate and touchy it

may be, cannot fray the fabric of the provision contained in Section

306 of the Indian Penal Code. In order to bring out an offence

under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code specific abetment as

contemplated by Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code on the part

of the accused with an intention to bring about the suicide of the

person concerned as a result of that abetment is required. The

intention of the accused to aid or to instigate or to abet the

deceased to commit suicide is a must for an offence under Section

306 of the Indian Penal Code. 20. Perusal of the suicide note shows that except

mentioning name and the allegation that the deceased was

harassed, but in what manner the deceased was abetted by

the applicant to commit suicide is not mentioned in the said

suicide note. .....18/- Judgment

 9 apl210.21 18 21. Thus, there is no material to show that there was

direct influence or impact on the part of the applicant, which

created in the mind of the deceased to drove him to commit

suicide. 22. Thus, a combined reading of Sections 306, 107, and

and 108 of the IPC shows requirement is a positive act on the

part of the accused to instigate or aid in committing suicide

and in absence of the same, the conviction cannot be

sustained. There has to be a clear intention to commit the

offence under Section 306 of the IPC. 23. In the light of the above said observations and after

considering the investigation material on record, it is difficult

to hold that inference of grave suspicion even can be raised

against the applicant. The material appears to be insufficient

for subjecting the applicant for trial. 24. In view of that, the application deserves to be allowed.

Accordingly, I proceed to pass following order: (2) FIR in connection with Crime No.232/2020 registered for

 offences under Sections 306 of the IPC and 39 and 42 of the Maharashtra Money Lending Act, 2014 and consequent

 proceeding arising out of the same bearing RCC

 No.179/2020. are hereby quashed and set aside to the extent

 of applicant Gulab s/o Yagyanarayan Dubey. Application stands disposed of. (URMILA JOSHI-PHALKE, J.)

 !! BrWankhede !!

Signed by: Mr. B. R. Wankhede
Designation: PS To Honourable Judge ...../-
Date: 13/02/2026 19:00:21