1. This hearing has been done through hybrid mode. 2. The present set of suits and proceedings have been filed before this
 Court, by a large number of trademark and brand owners, seeking reliefs
 against misuse of their marks / names / brands by unauthorized persons, who
 register such marks as part of their domain names. The issues that arise in
 these cases is that the proliferation of these fraudulent domain names has
 resulted in enormous damage and monetary loss running into lakhs of rupees
 to innocent and gullible members of the public, owing, inter alia, to
 inadequate verification of registrants and privacy protect features offered by
 domain name registrars (hereinafter "DNRs"). 3. The matters have been heard from time to time. There are several CS (COMM) 135/2022 & connected matters Page 15 of 43 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:15.09.2022 16:50:14 issues that arise in respect of the mode of registration of domain names,
 verification of domain names, privacy protect features, hosting of websites
 on the fraudulent domain names, payments being received from innocent
 persons etc. Vide order dated 3rd August, 2022, it was directed that in certain
 matters, copies of petitions and any additional information for investigation
 of FIRs, be provided to Ms. Sethi, ld. ASC, and Mr. Lamba, ACP, IFSO,
 Special Cell. A joint meeting was directed between the Delhi Police,
 National Payments Corporation of India (hereinafter "NPCI"), DoT,
 Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (hereinafter "MeitY"),
 Department of Telecommunication (hereinafter "DoT"), National Internet
 Exchange of India (hereinafter "NIXI"), and CERT-in. In addition, DNRs
 were directed to place proposals or affidavits on record, and Mr. Rao, ld.
 Senior Counsel, representing Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and
 Numbers (hereinafter "ICANN"), was to seek further instructions to make
 more comprehensive submissions. Vide order dated 3rd August, 2022, the
 following directions were issued: This should be discussed in the aforementioned
 meeting to be held on 30th August, 2022. ... 34. The report and the outcome of the meeting
 held on 30th August, 2022, along with the
 affidavits by the DNRs, shall be placed on
 record, on or before 31st August, 2022." 4. Pursuant to the above directions, various parties made their
 submissions on 13th September, 2022 and certain issues were dealt with vide
 order dated 13th September, 2022. Vide the said order, in view of the fact
 some urgent steps needed to be taken for ensuring compliance by DNRs, the
 following directions were issued: 14. The above details shall be placed before the
 Court tomorrow. List all these matters for this specific
 purpose tomorrow, i.e., on 14th September, 2022 at 3:00
 pm." 5. Today, further submissions have been made by the Plaintiffs, ld.
 Senior Counsels and counsels representing DNRs, etc. There are various
 aspects on which submissions have been addressed. The same are set out
 below along with further directions. Status Reports on Probe by the Delhi Police into Unlawful Collection of
 Monies 6. Pursuant to the direction given vide previous order dated 3rd August,
 2022, to the Delhi Police, which has constituted a Special Investigation CS (COMM) 135/2022 & connected matters Page 18 of 43 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:15.09.2022 16:50:14 Team (SIT) to inquire into these and similar cases, status reports have been
 filed in the following matters: 16.CS(COMM) 498/2020 Microsoft Corporation & Anr. v. PCPATCHERS Technology Private
 Limited & Ors. 17.CS(COMM) 276/2021 Microsoft Corporation & Anr. v. Tech Heracles OPC Private Limited
 & Ors., 18.CS(COMM) 587/2019 Pfizer Inc. & Ors. v. Beacon
 Pharmaceuticals Limited & Ors . 19.CS(COMM) 732/2019 Montblanc Simplo GMBH v. Montblancindia.com & Ors. 20.CS(COMM) 595/2022 Livspace PTE. Ltd. & Anr. v. Livspace-reviews.com & Ors. 21.CS(COMM) 154/2021 Godrej Properties Ltd. v. Ashok
 Kumar & Anr . 22.CS(COMM) 350/2020 Gujarat Cooperative Milk
 Marketing Federation Ltd. & Anr. v. Amul-Franchies.in & Ors. 23.CS(COMM) 524/2021 Kamdhenu Limited v. Raghunath
 Virdharam Bishnoi & Ors . 24.CS(COMM) 135/2022 Dabur India Limited v. Ashok
 Kumar and Ors . 25.CS(COMM) 228/2021 Bajaj Finance Limited v. Registrant of
 www.bajaj.finserve.org & Ors. 7. Ms. Sethi, ld. ASC, has taken the Court through some status reports
 today. For instance, in CS (COMM) 233/2022, the Delhi Police has filed a
 status report to the effect that 20 complaints were received by NPCI in the
 name of Bajaj Finance Limited. Nine complainants have provided
 documents, and FIRs have also been registered. Following this, certain bank
 accounts have also been frozen. Most of the status reports show that monies
 have been collected illegally by using the brand names, marks and business
 names of the Plaintiffs under the garb of offering distributorships,
 franchisees, employment etc. The said amounts are deposited in bank CS (COMM) 135/2022 & connected matters Page 20 of 43 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:15.09.2022 16:50:14 accounts opened in individual names but represented as belonging to the
 Plaintiffs and are withdrawn almost instantaneously. The magnitude of the
 fraud being committed is still to be unearthed. Investigations are still
 continuing. 8. Submissions are still being heard by the Court as to the action taken
 by the Delhi Police in these matters. 9. It is directed that the investigations already continuing, shall further
 continue in accordance with law and the police shall take all the necessary
 action. By the next date, i.e., 1st December, 2022, further status reports shall
 be placed on record in respect of all the suits being considered in this batch
 and any other relevant information. Status Report by MeitY and Meeting with Stakeholders 10. Mr. Harish V. Shankar, ld. CGSC, has filed a status report on behalf
 of MeitY, as was directed by the Court vide order dated 3rd August, 2022.
 The said report records that meetings were held on 24th and 30th August,
 2022 with various stakeholders. To this end, a batch of questionnaires was
 prepared by MeitY and sent to the stakeholders. It is submitted that MeitY is
 still in the process of receiving all responses and preparing its
 recommendations. 11. The said questionnaires have been compiled, along with some of the
 responses received and placed on record by MeitY. As per the said status
 report, post the order dated 3rd August, 2022, the following developments
 have taken place: 12. Basis the above report, this Court notes that the participants in the
 meeting dated 30th August, 2022, included MEITY, NIXI, DoT, Cert-IN,
 IFSO, Delhi Police, ICANN, NPCI and some DNRs. The status report has
 also annexed the responses received from the Cyber Law and E-Security
 division, MeitY, Digital Economy and Digital Payments Division, ICANN,
 NIXI, NPCI and Delhi Police, DoT, to the questionnaires provided by
 MEITY. The office of the CGPDTM is yet to reply. The said office shall
 also provide its response to MeitY by 30th September, 2022. 13. Insofar as DNRs are concerned, the questionnaires appear to have
 been sent to 25 DNRs, out of which, only two DNRs have responded
 namely, Hiox LLC, and Newfold Digital. 14. Insofar as the remaining DNRs are concerned, some of them are
 represented before this Court today. Any further DNRs who now wish to
 send responses to MeitY, including Hosting Concepts BV, Public Domain
 Registry (PDR), Endurance International, Bigrock, and GoDaddy LLC, as
 also any other DNRs, shall have the opportunity to do so by 30th
 September, 2022. The DNRs may also provide copies of their affidavits,
 filed before this Court, if they wish the same to be considered by MeitY, to
 Mr. Harish V. Shankar, ld. CGSC, so that the same can be passed on to the
 concerned authorities. Additionally, the DNRs who wish to participate in the
 said meetings with MeitY, are permitted to do so. The details of the said
 meetings shall also be obtained from the ld. CGSC Mr. Harish
 Vaidyanathan, if any of the parties wish to give their inputs. 15. Considering the status report filed today and the submissions made, it
 is directed that the deliberations which are currently underway, shall
 continue. All the stakeholders to whom questionnaires have been sent and
 any other stakeholders who wish to give their comments and responses to
 MeitY are permitted to do so by 30th September, 2022. The responses may
 be sent to the officer at the email address provided below: 16. Pursuant to these meetings, MeitY shall file recommendations in
 respect of the aspects contained in paragraph 31 of the order dated 3rd
 August, 2022, as extracted above. Along with the recommendations, the
 questionnaires sent and responses received from all parties shall be compiled
 and placed on record by MeitY in all these connected matters, CS (COMM) 135/2022 & connected matters Page 23 of 43 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:15.09.2022 16:50:14 by 1st December, 2022. Submissions with respect to Mismatch of Payment Details 17. At this stage, ld. Counsels for the Plaintiffs have also brought to the
 notice of the Court that whenever payments for purchase of domain names
 are accepted, there is frequently a mismatch between the name of the
 account holder of the bank account in the bank records, and the name given
 in the billing details at the time of purchase using the same bank account.
 There is currently no verification to check that the name of the account
 holder is the same as the name entered at the time of purchase.
 For e.g., if the bank account is in the name of Mr. XXXX and the billing
 detail is given as M/s. Dabur, the said mismatch is not checked and only the
 account number is verified. 18. Ld. Counsels seek directions as to whether this issue can be resolved
 in some manner, so that the impostors would be unable to mislead people by
 representing themselves as being the owners of the Plaintiffs' brands or
 businesses. 19. Let this issue be considered in the meetings to be held by MeitY with
 the stakeholders. NPCI shall also give its views, so that the same can be
 captured in the recommendations. Submissions of DNRs with respect to Grievance Officers and Grievance
 Redressal Mechanisms 20. Pursuant to the directions passed in paragraphs 31-33 of the previous
 order dated 3rd August, 2022 and in the previous order dated 13th
 September, 2022, various DNRs have made submissions today as to their
 grievance officers and their mechanisms for implementation of Court orders
 in cases of infringing and fraudulent domain names/websites. A. Submissions on behalf of Newfold LLC and its Group Entities 21. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, ld. Senior Counsel, appears on behalf of the
 following six DNRs: 22. With regard to the issue of grievance officers, he submits that as per
 the instructions which he could obtain at short notice, a common grievance
 officer has been appointed by all these five DNRs. The individual who is the
 Grievance Officer is Mr. Prabhat Kamat. The email details of the said
 Grievance Officer, for each entity, are as under: 23. In so far as the grievance redressal mechanism is concerned, Mr.
 Krishnan submits that the Newfold Group is in compliance with Rule 3(2)(a)
 of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media
 Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 (hereinafter "IT Rules 2021"), as whenever any
 complaint is made by any user or victim, the acknowledgment is issued to
 said user/victim, within 24 hours and the complaint is disposed of within 15
 days from the date of its receipt. He further submits that if any order is
 issued by any Court of competent jurisdiction or any order, notice or
 direction is issued by a governmental or competent authority, the same
 would be complied with in terms of the IT Rules 2021. Similarly, if any
 order granting injunction or directions with respect to infringing domain
 names or other orders with respect to infringing domain names are passed by
 this Court or any Court of law, the Grievance Officer would facilitate giving
 effect to such orders and ensure that the same are complied with, upon
 receiving a communication at the email addresses set out above. Mr.
 Krishnan however, submits that considering the time differences and the fact
 that some coordination may be required for such compliance across different
 offices of the DNRs, reasonable time of 48 to 72 hours maybe afforded for
 the purposes of the said compliance. 24. These submissions on behalf of the Newfold Group are recorded and
 the Newfold Group shall be bound by the same, in all matters where
 infringing domain names are involved. If the said Grievance Officer is
 changed in the future, such change shall also be notified by prominently
 publishing it the websites of each of the entities of the Newfold Group. B. Submissions on behalf of GoDaddy LLC 25. Insofar as GoDaddy LLC (hereinafter "GoDaddy") is concerned, Mr. CS (COMM) 135/2022 & connected matters Page 26 of 43 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:15.09.2022 16:50:14 Darpan Wadhwa, ld. Senior Counsel, submits that they are unable to obtain
 instructions as to whether any grievance officer has been appointed in terms
 of Rule 3 of the IT Rules, 2021. It is however submitted that from a perusal
 of the website, there is one grievance officer by the name Mr. Karen
 Gaydos, with the following address and e-mail: 26. It is submitted that the said individual could be functioning as the
 Grievance Officer under the IT Rules, 2021. He seeks further time to seek
 confirmation in this regard. 27. At this stage, ld. Counsels for the Plaintiffs have brought to the
 attention of this Court various problems with compliance of previous
 injunction/suspension orders and orders seeking details of registrants, where
 GoDaddy's current mechanism for reporting grievances has not been
 responsive or failed to comply with Court orders in time. By way of
 illustration, the Court's attention has been drawn to: 3. Additionally, Mr. Mehta, learned Senior
 Counsel appearing on behalf of the Plaintiff, during
 the course of hearing, has handed over a list of domain
 names, in respect of which, he submits that injunction
 orders are already operating and therefore Defendant
 No.2 be directed to disclose directly to the Plaintiff,
 various details of these registrant(s) to enable the CS (COMM) 135/2022 & connected matters Page 28 of 43 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:15.09.2022 16:50:14 Plaintiff to implead them as parties. List has been
 handed over to Mr. Darpan Wadhwa. 4. I find merit in the submissions made by Mr.
 Mehta. Accordingly, Defendant No.2 is directed to
 disclose to the Plaintiff whatever details of the
 registrant(s), as enumerated in the list, are available
 with Defendant No.2, within a period of two weeks
 from today, for the purpose of impleadment alone. " • In this regard, Mr. Wadhwa, ld. Sr. Counsel, submits that the said
 orders do not specifically require GoDaddy to provide details of
 registrants in case of impugned domain names supplied by further
 affidavit by the Plaintiffs. He submits that the directions in respect
 of such domain names were only limited to their suspension.
 • A perusal of the above orders shows that these submissions have
 been recorded clearly in the order dated 18th July, 2022 as well.
 Moreover, GoDaddy was directed to file an affidavit which has still
 not been filed despite almost eight weeks having passed by. (ii) CS(COMM) 95/2021 titled The Himalaya Drug Company & Ors. v.
 Ashok Kumar & Ors. : • It is the Plaintiff's contention that the details of registrants of two of
 the domain names i.e. www.himalayapharmacy.in and
 www.himalayawelness.in., have not been provided till date.
 • At this stage, Mr. Khan, ld. Counsel on behalf of GoDaddy,
 submits that the two domain names which the Plaintiffs claim to not
 have received registrant details for, are not registered by GoDaddy
 in the first place. This has in fact, been pleaded in paragraph 53(c)
 of the plaint. • Ld. Counsel for the Plaintiff to communicate by way of email, to
 counsel for GoDaddy as to whether any compliances are to be made
 or if any further details are to be given. If so, the same shall be
 provided by GoDaddy, within a week, after receipt of the said
 email. (iii) CS(COMM) 475/2022 titled Fashnear Technologies v. Meesho
 Online Shopping Pvt. Ltd. : Counsel for the Plaintiff by the DNR - GoDaddy and
 other Registrars. Upon the details of the registrants of
 these domain names being made available to ld.
 Counsel for the Plaintiff, the same shall be supplied to
 Ms. Sethi and Mr. Lamba, so that they can carry out
 further investigation into the matter. All the concerned
 banks shall further ensure that the bank accounts
 connected to the said three domain names are frozen
 and blocked. 6. The DNRs will also inform the Plaintiff, if the
 said domain names have availed of any other services
 of the DNR such as cloud server, website development
 and hosting services. If so, the details used for making
 any payments such as credit card details, bank
 accounts details and any IP address of such persons
 who have registered the said domain names for
 availing the said services, shall also be provided to ld.
 Counsel for the Plaintiff. After collecting said details,
 the ld. Counsel for the Plaintiff shall forward the same
 to Ms. Sethi and Mr. Lamba. 7. The DNRs shall further ensure that no other
 fake websites/domain names containing the mark/name
 'MEESHO' is registered by them. If the Plaintiff gives
 notice of any other infringing websites, the DNRs shall
 deactivate the said website/domain name, within 48 CS (COMM) 135/2022 & connected matters Page 32 of 43 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:15.09.2022 16:50:14 hours. 8. Ld. Counsel for the Plaintiff shall file an
 affidavit giving the details of such websites after
 submitting the same to the DNR. If any domain
 names, which are brought to the notice of the DNR,
 are not deactivated, an explanation shall be provided
 by the DNR to the Plaintiff as to why the said domain
 names were not deactivated, and the Plaintiff shall be
 at liberty to move an application before the Court in
 this regard." • It is submitted by Mr. Chopra, ld. Counsel for the Plaintiffs, that
 qua the domain names mentioned in the subsequent affidavits filed
 by the Plaintiffs, the details of the registrants have not been
 provided by GoDaddy. In respect of the said domain names, an
 email dated 4th September, 2022, sent on behalf of GoDaddy, has
 been received by the Plaintiff. The said email reads as under: • In response to the Plaintiff's submissions, Mr. Wadhwa, ld. Sr.
 Counsel, submits that the direction does not apply in respect of
 further affidavits which contain additional impugned domain
 names, as filed by the Plaintiffs. He submits that once the orders are
 passed for each of the domain names, the orders can be
 implemented, and such orders have been implemented in the past.
 • A perusal of the order dated 20th July, 2022 clearly shows that the
 impugned domain names had to be suspended/blocked, and the
 details of the registrants had to be provided by the DNRs, to the
 Plaintiffs. Considering that the injunction granted is a dynamic
 injunction, it is clear that if there is any further affidavit is filed for
 suspension of additional DNRs, the said domain names must also
 be deactivated/suspended/locked. If this is not done, the concerned
 DNR has to provide a reason for the same. In any event, the Court
 has seen various domain names in the list of additional impugned
 domain names, qua which are clearly infringing and action is yet to
 be taken by GoDaddy on such domain names. The said impugned
 domain names are as under: • In respect of the above domain names, it is directed that they shall
 be blocked/suspended and locked, and status quo shall be
 maintained qua them, failing which action in accordance with law,
 would be liable to be taken. Further, all details as captured in the
 order dated 20th July, 2022 above, available relating to the
 registrants of these domain names with GoDaddy, shall be provided
 to counsel for the Plaintiff within a week. The same shall also be
 filed before this Court along with an affidavit. (iv) CS(COMM) 524/2022 titled Bombinate Technologies Private
 Limited v. KOO COIN & Ors. : • Thereafter, the Court issued the following directions vide order
 dated 24th August, 2022: • However, ld. Counsel for the Plaintiffs submits that till date, no
 action has been taken by GoDaddy, and in fact the Plaintiffs have
 filed a contempt petition in the said case. (v) CS(COMM) 584/2022 titled Organo Gold Holdings Limited v.
 Origano Gold Private Limited & Ors. : • The email sent by the Plaintiff intimating GoDaddy of the order
 dated 26th August, 2022 along with the impugned domain names as CS (COMM) 135/2022 & connected matters Page 37 of 43 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:15.09.2022 16:50:14 per their application, has also been sent to M/s GoDaddy vide
 emails dated 27th August, 2022, 31st August, 2022, 5th September,
 2022 and 7th September, 2022. Such emails are stated to have been
 sent to various email addresses of GoDaddy, i.e., [email protected] , [email protected] , [email protected] . It is the submission of ld. Counsel
 for the Plaintiffs that till date, the domain name -
 www.origanogold.com (listed in para 12 of their application) and
 the website is still active. • The Court has accessed the said domain name during the course of
 the hearing today and finds that the same is still active. Mr.
 Wadhwa, ld. Senior Counsel, submits that he has no instructions in
 this regard. C. Submissions on behalf of Hosting Concepts B.V. 28. Ms. Kritika, ld. Counsel appearing for Hosting Concepts B.V, submits
 that there is a grievance cell manned by a number of individuals, who
 operate between 4:30 am to 6:00 pm Central European Time. There is also
 an abuse email address provided on the website. However, there is no
 Grievance Officer as of now, as directed under the IT Rules, 2021. Similar
 directions as that passed for GoDaddy today shall be extended to Hosting
 Concepts B.V as well, inasmuch as a Grievance Officer must be appointed
 in consonance with the IT Rules, 2021, by 20th September, 2022. Further,
 the name and contact details of the Grievance Officer shall be prominently
 displayed and accessible on the website of Hosting Concepts B.V.
 D. Submissions on behalf of Google LLC 29. Mr. Aditya Gupta, ld. Counsel appearing for Google LLC, one of the CS (COMM) 135/2022 & connected matters Page 38 of 43 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:15.09.2022 16:50:14 DNRs, submits that insofar as Google is concerned, the details of the
 Grievance Officer are prominently published on the website and are as
 under: Please use the options for reporting content for CS (COMM) 135/2022 & connected matters Page 39 of 43 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:15.09.2022 16:50:14 removal as listed in Section 1 above instead if you are
 not serving any summons or notices in civil
 proceedings. Google LLC
 attn: Paul Nicholas
 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
 Mountain View, CA 94043
 USA
 E-Mail: [email protected] " 30. This stand of Google is taken on record. 31. This Court has been hearing these DNR matters from time to time and
 several orders have been passed directing such DNRs to suspend/block
 infringing domain names and also provide registrant details. Further orders
 seeking inputs by DNRs as to their Grievance Officer and a mechanism to
 promptly ensure compliance with such orders have been passed. 32. However, insofar as GoDaddy is concerned, there is no clarity as to
 their position as on date. Clearly, there is no mechanism for enforcement of
 the Court's orders, as there seems to be no individual, who can be contacted
 through email or phone, for the purpose of giving effect to the orders passed
 by the Court. It is noted that Mr. Wadhwa has sought further time to verify
 the same. 33. As last and final opportunity, this Court permits GoDaddy, to
 appoint/inform the Court of the requisite Grievance Officers, latest by 20th
 September, 2022, in accordance with the IT Rules, 2021, and notify the
 same prominently on their websites, making the details of the Grievance
 Officers easily accessible in India. Upon failing to do so, MeitY and DoT
 are free to proceed against GoDaddy, in accordance with law. If GoDaddy is
 in compliance with the IT Rules, 2021 by 20th September, 2022 and CS (COMM) 135/2022 & connected matters Page 40 of 43 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:15.09.2022 16:50:14 appoints a Grievance Officer, it is permitted to move an application seeking
 modification of today's order. 34. Insofar as those DNRs which have appointed Grievance Officers are
 concerned, including Newfold Group and Google, it is made clear that they
 ought to function in accordance with law including the IT Rules, 2021. In
 such cases, Plaintiffs are permitted to make advance service in cases relating
 to domain names registered with the said DNRs to the Grievance Officers
 through the contact details of the grievance officers. It would then be
 expected in such cases, that the said DNRs would enter appearance or
 facilitate the compliance and give effect to the orders or directions passed by
 Courts. 35. No other DNRs have made any submissions before this Court today.
 MeitY is directed to look into the issue of appointment of Grievance
 Officers by the other DNRs who are parties in these suits. The said list of
 DNRs is as under: 3. Hostinger International Ltd. / [email protected] Hostinger UAB 4. Epik Inc. [email protected] 5. Tucows Inc. [email protected] , [email protected] 6. Wild West Domains LLC [email protected] 7. NameSilo LLC [email protected] 8. HioxSoftwaresPvt. Ltd. [email protected] , [email protected] CS (COMM) 135/2022 & connected matters Page 41 of 43 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:15.09.2022 16:50:14 9. 1&1 IONOS SE [email protected] 10. EPAG DomainServices compliance.epag.de 11. TLD Registrar Solutions Ltd. [email protected] 12. 1API GmbH [email protected] 13. Crazy Domains FZ-LLC [email protected] , [email protected] 14. Appcronix Infotech Private [email protected] Limited 15. Key-Systems GmbH [email protected] 16. Free Drop Zone LLC [email protected] 17. Wix.com Ltd [email protected] 18. DNC Holdings Inc. [email protected] 19. DropCatch.com [email protected] 20. NameBright.com [email protected] 21. DNSPod Inc. [email protected] 22. Dreamscape Networks [email protected] 23. Hostgator [email protected] 24. Milesweb [email protected] 25. NETIM [email protected] 26. NET.4 [email protected] 27. Vebonix [email protected] 28. Unified Layer [email protected] 29. NetAlliance PTY Ltd. [email protected] 30. Instra Corporation [email protected] 31. Internet Domain Service BC [email protected] Corp 32. Shinjiru MSC SDN BHD [email protected] 33. Huge Domains [email protected] CS (COMM) 135/2022 & connected matters Page 42 of 43 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:15.09.2022 16:50:14 34. Open TLD BV (Freenom) [email protected] , [email protected] 35. MarkMonitor.com [email protected] 36. If the said DNRs have not appointed Grievance Officers, one week's
 time shall be given to them for making the appointments in accordance with
 the IT Rules, 2021. If the said compliance is not made by DNRs, MeitY is
 free to proceed in accordance with law against such DNRs who are offering
 their domain name registration, hosting and related services in India, without
 complying with the local laws. A status report be put up by MeitY by the
 next date, on this aspect including the steps taken by MeitY pursuant to the
 directions contained above. 37. List for further submissions in all connected matters, on 1st
 December, 2022. 38. Interim orders, wherever granted, to continue. 39. The original signed copy of this order shall be placed in the lead
 matter being CS(COMM) 135/2022 titled Dabur India vs. Ashok Kumar ,
 and in all other suits, the digitally signed copies shall be placed. 40. These shall be treated as part-heard matters. PRATHIBA M. SINGH, J. SEPTEMBER 14, 2022
 Rahul/dj/dk/ms/ss CS (COMM) 135/2022 & connected matters Page 43 of 43 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:15.09.2022 16:50:14