SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J 1. The instant petition under Section 397 read with Section 482 of
 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereafter ' Cr.P.C .') has been filed
 on behalf of the State assailing the order dated 20.09.2017 passed by
 Additional Sessions Judge-04, Patiala House Courts, New Delhi
 (hereafter „Sessions Court‟) in Cr. Revision 941/2017. 2. Briefly stated, the facts of the present case are that FIR No.
 24/2017 was registered at Police Station IGI Airport, Delhi, against
 the respondent, Anchit Suri, for the commission of offences Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P.941/2017 Page 1 of 12 Digitally Signed By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:24.01.2025 11:28:12 punishable under Sections 420 / 468 / 471 of the Indian Penal Code,
 1860 (hereafter „ IPC ‟), based on a complaint filed by Sh. R.K. Ahir,
 Manager Security, Air India Pvt. Ltd. As per the complainant, the
 respondent had presented an alleged fake United Nations Laissez-
 Passer (hereafter „UN passport‟) to Ms. Magdalena Kropatschek, the
 Airline Liaison Officer (hereafter „ALO‟) of the Austrian Embassy. It
 is alleged that while the respondent was traveling to Frankfurt on a
 valid Indian passport with a valid visa, he had approached the Air
 India counter at IGI Airport and contacted Ms. Kropatschek, seeking
 information about a separate counter for diplomats. Ms. Kropatschek
 had informed him that there was no dedicated counter for diplomats
 and had inquired about his travel plans, asking him to show his
 passport. The respondent had then handed over the alleged UN
 passport to her, along with his valid Indian passport, which had a
 valid Schengen visa as well as valid German, Canadian, and U.S.
 visas. Ms. Kropatschek had begun examining the UN passport,
 during which the respondent had allegedly tried to retrieve the
 document from her, but had failed to do so. Despite this, the
 respondent was issued a boarding pass, as he possessed a valid Indian
 passport with the necessary visas. However, Ms. Kropatschek,
 suspecting the UN passport to be fake, had reported the matter to the
 complainant, Sh. R.K. Ahir, Manager Security, Air India, who had
 subsequently handed over the respondent to the police. During
 interrogation, the respondent had disclosed that he was studying in
 Canada and had obtained the fake UN passport from a friend, Jual
 Minah, who was also studying with him at the University of Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P.941/2017 Page 2 of 12 Digitally Signed By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:24.01.2025 11:28:12 Waterloo, Canada. According to the respondent, the document was
 prepared by his friend "for fun" and handed over to him, and he
 believed it to be genuine. The respondent further claimed that he had
 kept the document in his possession and that, during his time in
 Canada, he had visited a few UN offices to deliver lectures. 3. After completion of investigation, the chargesheet in this case
 was filed for offences under Sections 420 / 468 / 471 of IPC. The
 learned Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate-01, New Delhi,
 Patiala House Court (hereafter „ACMM‟) found it a fit case for
 framing charges against the accused under Sections 420 / 468 / 471 of
 IPC. The relevant extract of order dated 06.09.2017 passed by the
 learned ACMM reads as under: 4. However, in the revision petition preferred by the respondent, Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P.941/2017 Page 3 of 12 Digitally Signed By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:24.01.2025 11:28:12 the learned Sessions Court discharged the accused/respondent herein
 vide impugned order dated 20.09.2017. The relevant portion of the
 order is set out below: 20. In the present case, it is seen that prosecution is unable to
 establish that petitioner has committed any forgery. It is also
 seen that there is sanction by Central Government under the
 provisions of Section 188 of Cr.PC as it was considered that the
 fake UN passport was prepared in Canada. The sanction was
 duly granted by central government but the 10 did not make any
 effort to arrest said Jual Minah who was friend of the petitioner
 alleged to have prepared the said passport whose name cropped
 up in the disclosure statement of petitioner. 10 did not seize any
 printer, laptop or computer from which alleged passport was
 prepared. The disclosure statement of petitioner is not
 inadmissible being hit by Section 25 of Indian Evidence Act.
 There is no witness had sent the UN letter. The Section Officer
 who is recipient of the letter cannot prove the photocopy of this
 letter as per Indian Evidence Act and therefore, the prosecution
 could not bring any admissible evidence against the accused
 (petitioner herein) to show that the document was fake so as to
 raise grave suspicion for framing of charge. 21. Considering the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the
 case applying the relevant law as laid down in the judgments
 discussed above, I am of the considered opinion that there is no
 legally admissible material on record to connect the petitioner
 for his carrying fake UN passport for the purpose of cheating.
 Hence, impugned order dated 06.09.2017 is set aside. Revision
 petition is allowed." 5. The State has, by way of present petition, challenged the
 impugned order before this Court. The learned APP appearing for the
 State argues that the impugned order passed by the learned Sessions
 Court is not sustainable in the eyes of the law, and the same is based
 on imagination, presumption, conjectures and surmises and as such,
 cannot stand the scrutiny of law. It is contended that the learned
 Sessions Court has failed to appreciate that the accused was in
 possession of a fake diplomatic passport with his photograph and
 other particulars, and the accused, while asking for a counter for
 diplomats, had produced a fake diplomatic passport to the ALO. It is Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P.941/2017 Page 6 of 12 Digitally Signed By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:24.01.2025 11:28:12 also stated that the learned Sessions Court failed to appreciate that the
 incident was captured in the CCTV and the footage of the same is a
 part of the record supported by a Certificate under Section 65B of the
 Indian Evidence Act. It is also stated that the learned Sessions Court
 has failed to appreciate the verification report issued by the United
 Nations Special Agency. It is argued that the learned Sessions Court
 has failed to appreciate the better proposition of law that at the stage
 of framing of charge, if two views are possible, the one favouring the
 prosecution should be adopted. Further, at the stage of framing of
 charge, the evidence does not have to be analysed in great detail to
 find out if the accused can be held guilty for the offence, but only a
 prima facie case against the accused has to be seen. It is further stated
 that the learned Sessions Court wrongly set aside the order of the
 learned ACMM. Therefore, it is prayed by the learned APP for the
 State that the impugned order be set aside and the present petition be
 allowed. 6. On the other hand, the learned counsel appearing for the
 respondent has argued that learned Sessions Court has rightly passed
 the impugned order after considering the entire material placed on
 record. The learned counsel has drawn attention of this Court to the
 communication of ALO, Republic of Austria to whom the accused
 had allegedly approached at Air India counter, who had suspected the
 said UN passport shown by the accused to her to be fake. However,
 the said communication does not bear her signatures and the
 Investigating Officer has verified that her statement under Section Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P.941/2017 Page 7 of 12 Digitally Signed By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:24.01.2025 11:28:12 161 of Cr.P.C . has not been recorded. The learned counsel for the
 respondent also argues that the respondent, being a student, had used
 the alleged passport issued by the United Nations merely for fun. He
 further submitted that the respondent was a frequent traveler to
 several countries and had no malafide intention to use the said
 passport, as he already possessed a valid passport and visa.
 Therefore, it is prayed that the present petition be dismissed and the
 impugned order be upheld. 7. This Court has heard arguments addressed on behalf of both
 the parties, and has perused material on record. 8. The allegations against the accused/respondent, in brief, are
 that he had presented an alleged fake UN passport to Ms. Magdalena
 Kropatschek, the ALO of Austrian Embassy, while traveling to
 Frankfurt on a valid Indian passport and visa. When Ms. Kropatschek
 had suspected the document to be fake, the matter was reported to Air
 India Security, and the respondent was handed over to the police.
 During interrogation, the respondent had disclosed that he had
 obtained the fake document from a friend in Canada, who had created
 it "for fun", and claimed that he had believed it to be genuine. 9. The learned counsel for the respondent/accused has argued that
 the respondent had obtained or fabricated this passport for fun, which
 in itself prima facie establishes that he was in possession of the said
 UN passport, which was not genuine. The learned counsel for the
 respondent also argued that the offence lacks seriousness, as no one
 was cheated and the accused had traveled on the basis of a valid Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P.941/2017 Page 8 of 12 Digitally Signed By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:24.01.2025 11:28:12 passport and not the allegedly fabricated passport purportedly issued
 by the United Nations. This Court, however, finds this contention
 devoid of any merit. The admission by the learned counsel that the
 alleged passport, purportedly issued by the United Nations, was
 obtained by the respondent "for fun" clearly prima-facie establishes
 that the respondent was in possession of the said passport which was
 allegedly fake and fabricated. 10. Further, in this Court‟s view, the findings of the learned
 Sessions Court are flawed and untenable, as they are based on an
 erroneous premise. The learned Sessions Court has proceeded on the
 assumption that, even if the respondent was in possession of a fake
 passport purportedly issued by the United Nations, the only possible
 benefit he could have derived was being allowed to sit in the VIP
 lounge and have coffee. Such reasoning trivializes the gravity of the
 offence. Even assuming, for argument‟s sake, that the respondent's
 actions were limited to such a minor benefit, the fact remains that the
 fabrication or possession of a forged document is a serious criminal
 offence. The charge-sheet records that the fake passport was handed
 over to the concerned Officer, posing it to be genuine for her to act
 on it. To dismiss the fabrication and possession of a fake passport as
 an act done merely "for fun" would clearly undermine the seriousness
 of the offence. Forging documents, particularly something as
 significant as a passport, raises critical concerns about national
 security. It cannot be viewed as a frivolous or inconsequential act,
 regardless of the respondent's purported intentions. 11. Criminal jurisprudence operates on the premise that actions
 that compromise public trust in official documents and institutions
 must be dealt with firmly. To decriminalize such conduct by terming
 it playful or harmless intentions, would set a dangerous precedent,
 diluting the deterrent effect of the law. The learned Sessions Court‟s
 findings, therefore, fail to reflect the seriousness of the offence and
 its potential ramifications. 12. The learned counsel for the accused/respondent also contended
 that the witness who had seized the passport and to whom it had been
 handed over by the accused, has not been made party to the case and,
 therefore, the proceedings cannot result in conviction. This argument
 is unmerited, as the learned Magistrate has the discretion to summon
 such witnesses for their deposition at the appropriate stage of the trial
 if it is deemed necessary. 13. On the aspect of standard of proof at the stage of charge, the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Bhawna Bai v. Ghanshyam : (2020) 2
 SCC 217 has observed as under: (Emphasis added) 14. In Manendra Prasad Tiwari v. Amit Kumar Tiwari : 2022
 SCC OnLine SC 1057, the Hon'ble Supreme Court, while explaining
 the well-settled law on exercise of powers under Section 397 and 482 Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P.941/2017 Page 10 of 12 Digitally Signed By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:24.01.2025 11:28:12 Cr.P.C ., had observed as under: (Emphasis added) 15. Based on the material on record, this Court is of the view that
 sufficient grounds exist to frame charges against the accused, as the
 evidence suggests that the accused may have committed the alleged
 offence. However, it must be emphasized that a conviction requires
 the prosecution to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt that the
 accused is guilty of the offence, however, at the stage of framing
 charges, the Court does not delve into the probative value of the
 evidence on record. Nonetheless, it is incumbent upon the Court to
 apply its judicial mind to the available material and ensure that there
 is a plausible basis for concluding that the accused may have
 committed the alleged offence and a strong suspicion is sufficient to
 frame charge. 16. In view of the foregoing discussion, this Court is inclined to
 allow the present petition. The impugned order dated 20.09.2017
 passed by the learned Sessions Court is therefore set aside.
 Consequently, the order dated 06.09.2017 passed by the learned
 ACMM in this case is upheld. 17. Nothing expressed hereinabove shall tantamount to an
 expression of opinion on merits of the case. 18. Let a copy of this judgment be forwarded to the learned
 ACMM, who is directed to proceed with the case as per law. 19. In view of the above, the present revision petition stands
 disposed of. 20. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
 JANUARY 17, 2025/A Signature Not Verified CRL.REV.P.941/2017 Page 12 of 12 Digitally Signed By:AANCHAL TAGGAR Signing Date:24.01.2025 11:28:12