(Delivered on 01/09/2021)
 2 CC/29/2017

Per Smt.S.T.Barne, Hon'ble Presiding Judicial Member. 1. The complainant Vijay Kisan Saraf, Sharad Kaluram Dongre and
Sanjay Kaluram Dongre, have filed this complaint against 1) Dr.Sanjay
Vijay Patane and 2) Vinay Hanumant Yadkikar u/sec. 12 of Consumer
Protection Act, 1986 . It is alleged by the complainants that the opponent
No.1 has initially agreed to purchase row-houses A-1 & A-2 from opponent
No.2, in Swapnapurti project on Gut No. 99, situated at mauje Tisgaon near
Waluj. 2. The complainant No.2 is the owner of the said land Survey No. 99,
on which the said project is undertaken. Complainant No.1&3 are the
power of attorney holders of complainant No.2. The complainant No.2
entered into development agreement with opponent No.2 and as per said
agreement row-houses No. A-1 & A-2 were allotted to the share of
opponent No.2. The opponent No.2 agreed to sell said row-houses No. A-1
& A-2 to opponent No.1 and accepted booking amount from him. When
the construction work was in progress, the opponent No.1 then agreed to
sell the said row-houses No.A-1 & A-2 to complainant No.1 for total
consideration of Rs.32 Lakhs. Out of said amount the opponent No.1 had
already received Rs. 26 Lakhs. The amount of Rs. 6 Lakhs was remained
unpaid from complainant No.1 to opponent No.1. Therefore, it was agreed
by complainants to adjust said amount towards the transaction against
development agreement between complainants and opponent No.2.
Accordingly, the complainant made payment of Rs. 26 Lakhs to opponent
No.1 during 9/11/2011 to 23/2/2012. Both the parties acknowledged the
transaction by executing consent terms on 05/02/2016. Prior to that, the
opponent No.2 also executed consent document on 23.2.2012 Since there
was also charge of Ambajogai Peoples co-operative bank, CIDCO branch
 3 CC/29/2017

Aurangabad on the property to be developed. The opponent No.1 was
supposed to execute the sale deed in favour of complainant No.1 on
obtaining non encumbrance certificate. The complainants issued legal
notice to opponents to clear the claim of Ambajogia People Co-operative
Bank, and to obtain NOC from bank and to execute sale deed. The
complainants have also paid entire consideration as agreed till 23/2/2012,
to opponent No.1. 3. In the meanwhile dispute arose between complainant and opponent
No.2 in respect of development of project. The opponent No.2 filed Spl.
C.S. No. 322/2012 against complainants. It was compromised on
11.7.2013 between complainants and opponent No. 2 with consent terms.
As per said terms and conditions opponents were ready to complete
remaining construction and to take the possession of two row-houses on
and around July 2013, and the complainant came in possession of row-
houses and started construction of remaining work. However, as the
opponent No.2 have not complied their part, the complainants were
constrained to file execution petition. The opponent No.2 again proposed
to modify the consent terms and condition. The opponent No.2 was
supposed to construct the row-houses and deliver the possession. The
opponent No.2 only completed RCC work and complainants have carried
out remaining work including tiles, finishing, sanitary fittings, staircase
railing, compound wall etc. The complainants carried out said work on
their own, out of their own pocket. The said consent terms are dt.
14.3.2014. During pendency of the execution petition the opponent No.2
again executed consent terms on 19.11.2014. The complainants were also
in continuous follow up with opponent No.1, he executed compromised
consent terms on 5.2.2016, and agreed entire transaction and to obtain
NOC from bank within one month. 4 CC/29/2017 4. The bank has also issued NOC with outward No. 12/16/17 dt.
26.4.2016. The opponent No.1 handed over said NOC, and said original
NOC is with complainant. However, the opponent No.1 avoided to execute
sale deed and started demanding Rs. 5 Lakhs from complainant. It is
alleged by the complainants that, they came to know that the opponent
No.2 executed two sale deeds in favour of opponent No.1 dt. 31.1.2017.
The complainant having apprehension that the opponent No.1 may create
interest over the property. In spite of making entire payment, the opponent
failed to execute the sale deed in favour of complainants. Hence, with this
consumer complaint the complainant claimed Rs.26 Lakhs along with
interest at the rate of 15% p.a. from 23.02.2012 till filing complaint
amounting to Rs.20,87,835/- and also claimed Rs. 1 Lakh spent for
obtaining NOC from the bank, Rs.20 Lakhs towards compensation, legal
opinion and Rs.5 Lakhs towards cost of proceeding. During pendency of
complaint for judgment the complainant amended prayer and claimed for
cancellation of sale deed executed by opponent No.2 in favour of opponent
No.1, and sought direction to execute the sale deed by opponents in favour
of complainants. 5. The opponent No.1 failed to file written version in time. Hence, the
complaint is proceeded without written statement by order dated
06.10.2017 against the opponent No.1. However, the opponent No.1 in
spite of said order has submitted his preliminary objection at page No. 251
to 258 of compilation of complaint. That, the transaction between
complainant No.1 Vijay Kisan Saraf and opponent No.1 Dr.Sanjay Patane
cannot be brought within the ambit of consumer Protection Act. It is of
commercial nature . On this ground complaint needs to be dismissed. The
complainants No. 2&3 have no concern with said transaction. The original
transaction was between opponent No.2 builder developer and opponent
No.1. the complainant No.1 was intending to purchase the row-houses No.
 5 CC/29/2017

A-1 & A-2 from Swapnapurti Gut No. 99, Tisgaon. Tq & Dist.Aurangabad.
Only complainant No.1 had approached to opponent No.1 to purchase the
row-houses. Complainant No.2&3 have no concern with it. The opponent
No. 1 agreed to sale the row-houses for consideration of Rs. 32 Lakhs to
complainant No.1 Vijay Saraf. It is also admitted that complainant No.1
has paid Rs. 26 Lakhs to opponent No.1. The amount of Rs. 6 Lakhs
remained unpaid. The opponent No.1 has paid entire amount to opponent
No.2 while purchasing said row-houses from opponent No.2 and there is no
dispute between opponent No.1&2 regarding consideration. 6. The contention of complainants that the amount of Rs. 6 Lakhs was
to be adjusted against other transaction between complainant No.2 and
opponent No.2 is false. 7. It is further contention of opponent No.1 that transaction of sale was
to be completed only on payment of remaining consideration of Rs.6
Lakhs. The alleged consent term dt. 5.2.2016 (page No.150 to 152) are
fabricated. His signature is obtained by fraud on said consent terms. The
document of consent terms dt. 23.2.2012 (page No. 63to66) is executed by
fraud. Therefore, said consent terms cannot be relied upon. The SMS
issued by complainant are sent with intention to harass opponent No.1.
The NOC was obtained by opponent No.1 for the purpose of executing sale
deed between opponent No.1&2. 8. The opponent No.1 is not party to the Spl. Civil Suit No. 322/2012
and to subsequent execution petition between complainant and opponent
No.2. It is denied that the complainant is having possession of disputed
row-houses . the opponent No.1 has no knowledge about compromise
between complainant and opponent No.2 before the Civil Court. 6 CC/29/2017 9. The sale deed executed by opponent No.2 on 31.1.2017 are legal and
valid. If the complainant paid Rs. 6 Lakhs the balance consideration the
opponent No.1 is ready to execute sale deed. Their claim for compensation
of Rs. 471213/- is false. Hence, dnied. The complainants have no
preferential right to purchase the row-houses. 10. The complainants have filed complaint dt. 24.2.2017 to police
Commissioner Aurangabad. It was investigated by economic wing.
However, no offence is registered. The transaction is commercial
transaction. Therefore, the opponent No.1 prayed for dismissal of
complaint and also sought directions against complainant to pay interest at
the rate of 18 % p.a. on Rs. 5 Lakhs from the date of execution of
agreement i.e. from 15.10.2011 till realisations of amount of Rs. 6 Lakhs
and also demanded, Rs. 1 Lakh towards cost of proceeding. 11. The opponent No.2 has filed his reply with preliminary objection at
page No. 219 to 225. It is the contention of opponent No.2 that the
complainants are not consumers. Complainant No.2 was the owner of land
G.No. 99, S.No. 70 situated at Tisgaon Tq. & Dist. Aurangabad. It is
admitted that the complainants and the opponent No.2 entered into
development agreement of aforesaid land in the name and style as
"Swapnapurti Project". The complainants executed irrevocable power of
attorney in favour of opponent No.2. However, there is no document to
show that complainants are the consumers of opponent No.2 under Sec.2(1)(d) of Consumer Protection Act,1986. Admittedly, complainant
and opponent No.2 have executed development agreement with specific
shares allotted to them. They were to generate profits out of said
transactions. This transaction is of commercial nature. Therefore, there is
no substance in the contention of complainants that they purchased the
row-houses for their family members. There is no document to show that
 7 CC/29/2017

complainants paid any consideration to opponent No.2, to draw inference
that complainants are consumer. 12. The opponent No.1 got ownership on 13.2.2017. Prior to that he was
having no right to transfer the property. Therefore, the complainant cannot
claim right on contingent contract, i.e. agreement between complainant and
opponent No.1. The complaint is barred by limitation. Without prejudice
to the earlier contention, it is the contention of opponent No.2 that the
opponent No.2 was calling the complainants for execution of sale deed
since the year 2014. If the complainants wants to rely upon those
documents then he ought to have filed complaint within 2 years. If there is
any transaction between complainants and opponent No.1, the opponent
No.2 has not received any consideration. The opponent No.2 has not
received any amount of Rs. 26 Lakhs as alleged. Therefore, he cannot be
held liable for any payment. 13. Earlier complainant and opponent No.1 were heard finally and
during pendency for judgment some queries of relief were raised and
complainant submitted application for amendment and amended relief
clause. The opponent No.1 filed reply and opponent opposed the
application. This Commission pleased to allow the application subject to
opportunity to the parties of hearing and also gave opportunity to opponent
to amend the pleading. However, on behalf of complainant it is brought to
the notice that the opponent No.1 has not submitted written version. The
learned Advocate for opponent No.1 has submitted detail reply to
amendment application and filed certain citations. It is also brought to the
notice by complainant that the opponent No.1 has also not filed written
version. 8 CC/29/2017 14. In view of aforesaid contention of parties following points arise for
our determination. We have noted them along with findings thereon,
accordingly for the reasons to follow. 15. Most of the facts about transaction between complainant No.1 and
opponents are not disputed except some contentions regarding adjustment
of balance amount of agreement to sale between complaint and opponent
No.1. Complainant No.1 Vijay Saraf is the person who entered into
agreement with opponent No.1 Dr.Patne. The complainant No.2 Sharad
Kaluram Dongre is the owner of property. The complainant No.3 Sanjay is
the son of complainant No.2. Complainant No.1&3 are power of attorney
holders of complainant No.2. The complainant No.2 entered into
agreement with opponent No.2 for development of his property Gut No.99,
situated at Tisgaon, Tq. & Dist. Aurangabad, and they have specified their
shares in the developed property. The row houses No. A1 & A2 were
falling to the share of opponent No.2( builder and developer). The
 9 CC/29/2017

opponent No.2 agreed to sell those row houses to opponent No.1 Dr. Patne
for consideration of Rs. 21 Lakhs(in total), in the year 2008. And Dr. Patne
paid Rs. 15 Lakhs to opponent No.2 from time to time and it was agreed by
opponent No.1 Dr.Patane, to pay remaining amount of Rs. 6 Lakhs to
opponent No.2 at the time of execution of sale deed. On 15.10.2011 the
opponent No.1 Dr.Patne, entered into agreement to sale with complainant
No.1 Vijay Saraf in respect of row houses 1A & 1B, for consideration of
Rs. 32 Lakhs. The complainant No.1 paid Rs. 26 lakhs to the opponent
No.1 Dr.Patne from time to time and it was agreed to pay remaining
amount at the time of execution of sale deed. Those (Bharna Pavatis) are at
P.No.58 to 60 & 61to62). However, the opponent No.2 has raised loan of
Ambajogai Co-operative Bank on said property. Hence, the sale deed
could not be executed till obtaining NOC from said bank. The complainant
was insisting opponent No.1 to obtain NOC from the bank. 16. In the meantime on 23.02.2012 the opponent No.2 developer also
executed consent letter, agreeing the transaction between complaint No.1
and opponent No.1. He agreed to execute sale deed in favour of opponent
No.1 or in the name of the person to whom the opponent No.1 Dr.Patne
will ask him to execute the sale deed (said document dt.23.02.2012 is at
page No.63to66). In consent letter it was agreed between complaint No.1
and opponent No.1 to adjust the amount of Rs. 6 Lakhs, payable by
complainant No.1 to opponent No.2 against the transaction between them.
If it is not happened accordingly, then the complainant No.1 agreed to pay
balance amount of Rs.6 Lakhs to opponent No.1 (As per Bharna Pavti dt.
23.2.2012 page No.61,62) . 17. Thus, it is important to note that, till executing consent letter
dt.23.02.2012. There was no transaction in respect of disputed row-houses
between complainant No.1 and opponent No.2. The opponent No.1 on the
 10 CC/29/2017

basis of his agreement with opponent No.2 to purchase the row-houses had
executed agreement to sale in favour of complainant No.1. The opponent
No.2 by executing consent letter ratified the agreement between
complainant No.1 and opponent No.1 and agreed to execute the sale deed,
in favour of opponent No.1 or to person to whom he will ask for to execute
the sale deed on completing the construction. However, as there was bank
loan raised by the opponent No.2 for construction of row-houses, he was
supposed to obtain NOC from bank and to complete the construction and to
execute sale deed. Therefore, the complainant No.1 stepped into shoes of
opponent No.1. The opponent No.1 has received Rs.26 Lakhs from
complainant and having knowledge of agreement/transaction between
complainant No.1 and opponent No.1, the opponent No.2 executed consent
letter, (page No.63to66) which is signed by all the parties. With this
transactions between complainant and opponents they cover under
definition of consumer and service provider under Consumer Protection
Act . 18. It will not be out of place to mention here that, there was Civil suit
No.322/2012 filed by opponent No.2 against complainants in the Civil
Court. It was compromised between the parties. However, the parties were
required to file execution petition for execution of the consent terms. In
the execution petition the compromise took place between them in respect
of their development agreement. The row houses are also part of the
property of development agreement & part of consent terms, executed in
Civil disputes. However, it is not disputed that opponent No.2 entered into
agreement with opponent No.1 in respect of disputed row-houses No. A/1
& A/2 for total consideration of Rs.21 Lakhs. Hence, these two properties
covered in consumer dispute. As opponent No.1 executed agreement to
sell with complainant No.1 in the year 2011 and subsequently the opponent
No.2 consented for said transaction as mentioned earlier. Hence,
 11 CC/29/2017

documents produced by the parties in respect of their transaction out of
civil disputes can be read in this complaint. 19. The opponent No.1 is claiming that, he has deposited amount of Rs.
6 Lakhs with bank (i.e. Rs.3 Lakhs each against row houses No. 1A and
1B & obtained NOC). Prior to that compromise terms were taken place
between complainants, opponent No.1 and opponent No.2 wherein it is
specifically mentioned that, the amount which was remained unpaid by
opponent No.1 to opponent No.2 is adjusted. The amount of transaction
between the complainants and opponent No.2 is also adjusted. However,
the opponent No.2 executed the sale deed in favour of opponent No.1. 20. In fact, the opponent No.2 by executing consent letter dated
23.2.2012 ratified the transactions between complainant No.1 & opponent
No.1 and as per agreement and agreement between complainant No.1 and
opponent No.1, the opponents were supposed to execute sale deed in favour
of complainant No.1. The fact that the opponent No.1 has received huge
amount of Rs.26 Lakhs from complainant No.1 was also within the
knowledge of opponent No.2. However, the opponents after obtaining
NOC executed the sale deed in favour of opponent No.1 without obeying
the agreements between complainant No.1 and opponents and thereby
committed deficiency in service towards the complainant No.1. 21. The opponent No.1 is not denying that as per agreement between
complainant and himself he received Rs. 26 Lakhs. However, according to
opponent No.1 the amount of Rs.6 Lakhs are yet to be received from
complainant No.1 and if he paid the amount he is ready to execute the sale
deed. 12 CC/29/2017 22. While according to complainants in view of compromise between the
parties the remaining amount was to be adjusted between parties and now
nothing remained to be paid. On the contrary while making payment by
opponent No.1 to Ambajogai bank, the opponent No.1 paid Rs. 5 Lakhs
only and complainant No.1 paid Rs. 1 Lakh. Hence, the complainants are
supposed to get refund of Rs. 1 Lakh from opponent No.1. Thus, according
to complainants in view of compromise between parties nothing remained
to be paid on their part. 23. The complainant No.1 is claiming that, he has produced the
statement of his bank account at page No.367 to show that he has made
payment of Rs.1 Lakh to opponent No.1 by transferring the amount of Rs.1
Lakh by RTGS to his account. Hence, so far as transaction between
complainant No.1 and opponent No.1 is concerned the complainant No.1
made payment of Rs.26,00,000/- by agreement to sale and Bharna Pavties
produced at page Nos. 54to62 and Rs.1 Lakh by RTGS to the account of
opponent No.1. Thus, opponent No.1 has received Rs.27 Lakhs in total. 24. It is alleged by the complainant that, the amount of Rs.6 payable by
opponent No.1 to opponent No.2 against the transaction between them was
supposed to be adjusted against the transaction between complaints and
opponent No.2 as per consent terms in Civil dispute between them.
Therefore, nothing remained to be paid by complainant against the
transaction between complainant No.1 and opponent No.1. According to
complainants, the complainant No.1 entered into agreement with opponent
No.1. As agreed between opponent No.1&2 and with subsequent consent
of opponent No.2 to the transaction between complainant No.1 & opponent
No.1 on obtaining NOC from the bank i.e. by removing encumbrance on
disputed row-houses. The opponents were supposed to execute transaction
in favour of complainant No.1. 13 CC/29/2017 25. Considering the aforesaid developments regarding transactions & the
subsequent compromises took place between the parties and the agreement
between complainant and opponent No.1, and the fact that, with the
compromise between parties they agreed their respective performances. It
is apparent from undisputed facts and evidence adduced by complainant
that to get the construction work completed the complainants remained in
possession of the two disputed row-houses 1A and 1B. The opponent
No.1&2 also agreed, the receipt of huge consideration of Rs.26 Lakhs by
opponent No.1 from complainant No.1 and the amount received by
opponent No.2 from opponent No.1 against the earlier agreement between
opponents. It is also further admitted by opponent No.2 that he received
entire consideration from opponent No.1. The parties also entered into
compromise and the receipt of remaining amount and that the opponents
agreed to enter into sale deed with complainant No.1. 26. So far as the objection that disputed transaction between opponent
No.1 and complainant No.1 for agreement to purchase the row-houses
No.A/1 & A/2 is commercial transaction is concerned, there is no evidence
adduced by opponents to that effect that the complainant have admitted
/agreed to purchase the row-houses from opponent No.1 for commercial
purpose. As per development agreement between complainant No.2 and
opponent No.2, said row houses were allotted to the share of opponent
No.2. And subsequently opponent No.2 agreed to sale two row-houses to
opponent No.1. As the opponent No.1 was in difficulty, he decided to sell
those row houses to complainant No.1. The opponent No.2 also consented
said transaction subsequently by consent letter dated 23.2.2012. The
complainants are claiming that they have agreed to purchase said property
for their family. There is no evidence to show that it is commercial
transaction between complainant No.1 and opponent No.1. 14 CC/29/2017

Moreover, it is a separate transaction from that of development agreement
between complainant No.2 and opponent No.2, hence cannot be treated as
commercial transaction. 27. The opponent No.2 has also raised objection that at the time of
agreement between complainant No.1 and opponent No.1 he was not
having right in the property. Admittedly initially there was agreement to
sale between the complainant No.1 and opponent No.1 and subsequently
the opponent No.2 entered into consent agreement (संमतीप ) and thereby
ratified the agreement between complainant No.1 and opponent No.1.
Besides said consent agreement all the parties arrived at compromise and
adjusted their transactions. However, in spite of it the opponent No.2
executed sale deed in favour of opponent No.1, though it was agreed
between the parties about adjustment of the amount and receipt of
consideration, and in spite of obtaining NOC to the extent of said row
houses on 26/04/2016, the opponents failed to execute the sale deed in
favour of complainant No.1 or as opponent No.1 will ask for to opponent
No.2 and thereby committed deficiency in service. 28. The opponent No.2 has also raised objection, as to limitation to file
complaint before Consumer State Commission. According to him the
complainants were claiming the execution of sale deed since the year 2014.
Therefore, they were supposed to file complaint within 2 years. However,
this complaint is filed in the year 2017 and it is barred by limitation. It
cannot be ignored that agreement between opponent No.1&2 took place in
2008, the subsequent agreement between complainant and opponent No1
took place in the year 2011. The opponent No.2 consented said agreement
in the year 2012 . However, there was encumbrance created by opponent
No.2 for development of property the cause of action was continued.
Thereafter by making payment of Rs. 6 Lakhs against their two row
 15 CC/29/2017

houses, NOC is obtained in the year 2016. Thereupon, the opponent No.2
executed sale deed in favour of opponent No.1 only in the year 2017.
Hence, the cause of action again arose when the opponent No.2 executed
sale deed in favour of opponent No.1 though opponent No.1 had obtained
huge amount from complainant No.1 and opponent No.2 executed the sale
deed in favour of opponent in spite of ratification of agreement between
complainant No.1 and opponent No. The time is also consumed for
obtaining NOC. Hence, there is no substance in the objection raised by
opponent No.2, that the complaint is not filed within limitation. 29. So far as relief claimed is concerned, according to complainant as
specified in para 23, of complaint he has preferential right and claim over
two row-houses on the basis of agreements executed, and the sale deed
executed by opponent No.1 in favour of opponent No.1 is not binding on
him. As the opponents have received entire amount they are liable to
execute the sale deed. He has filed the complaint as opponent failed to
execute the sale deed. Hence, they have prayed to allow the complaint and
claimed Rs. 26 Lakhs with interest at the rate of 15 % from the date
23.2.2012 till filing complaint and with further interest on said amount Rs.
1 Lakh paid in the bank with interest at the rate of 15% from the date of
complaint till realisation, Rs.20,000/- towards deficiency in service, mental
agony and economic loss Rs. 5 Lakhs, 25,000/- throughout legal expenses
and cost. 30. The complainant has claimed initially the refund of consideration
amount along with interest, compensation towards mental agony, expenses
incurred for completing the construction of row-houses from the
opponents. Then by amending the complaint the complainants claimed
cancellation of sale deed executed by opponent No.2 in favour of opponent
 16 CC/29/2017

No.1 and sought direction against the opponents to execute the sale deed of
row-houses No.A/1 & A/2 in their favour. 31. Admittedly, there is agreement between complainant No.1 and
opponent No.1 , to purchase the row house for 32 Lakhs , opponent No.1
received Rs. 26 Lakhs. According to complainants there was incomplete
work which is carried out by complainants and complainants are in
possession of row-houses. The opponent No.1 ratified the agreement
between complainant No.1 and opponent No.1 subsequently in view of
compromise of execution proceeding between complainants and opponent
No.1 and the compromise between complainants and opponents the
remaining amount of Rs. 6 Lakhs is adjusted and nothing remained to be
paid between complainants and opponent No.2 interse or between
complainant No.1 and opponent No.1 and in spite of it complainant No.1
constrained to approach the to the State Consumer Commission. The
opponent No.1 admitted transaction and he is claiming the amount of Rs.
6 Lakhs if paid to him, he would execute the sale deed. 32. Here the complainants are claiming that complainant No.1&3 are the
power attorney holder of complainant No.2, the owner of land on which the
row houses are constructed. The complainant No.1 entered into agreement
with opponent No.1 to purchase said row-houses for Rs.32 Lakhs, the
opponent No.2 by subsequent consent deed agreed to execute sale deed in
favour of opponent No.1 or in the name to whom the opponent No.1 will
ask him to execute the sale deed. However, opponent No.2 has not
completed the construction and also not obtained NOC for longer period
and then the opponent No.2 on getting his dues settled with the help of
opponent No.2 against remaining consideration of transaction between
them executed sale deed in favour of opponent No.1 though there
 17 CC/29/2017

were consent terms between parties and opponent No.1 has received Rs.26
Lakhs from complainant No.1. 33. It is important to note that, now the transaction between opponent
No.1&2 is completed by receiving entire agreed consideration by opponent
No.2 and executing sale deed in favour of opponent No.1. Moreover, the
opponent No.1 also admittedly received huge amount of Rs.26 Lakhs
towards agreement from time to time and Rs.1 Lakh by transfer of amount
on his account from complainant No.1 is proved by admitted facts and
record. It has also come on record that after transfer of Rs.1 Lakh to
opponent No.1 he has deposited Rs.6 Lakhs with Ambejogai Bank and
obtained NOC against the loan raised by opponent No.2 on disputed row-
houses. However, the opponent No.1 has denied receipt of Rs.1 Lakh from
complainant No.1 by RTGS. But from proved facts it is made clear that,
only amount of Rs.5 Lakhs remained unpaid from complainant No.1
against the transaction between complainant No.1 and opponent No.1. 34. According to complainant as per settlement between the parties the
amount of Rs.6 Lakhs is adjusted with opponent No.2. Though it is a part
of settlement between complainants owner and power of attorney holder
and opponent No.2 towards development agreement that cannot be subject
matter of consumer dispute. Hence, on prima facie documents and
admitted facts transaction with no stretch of imagination it can be gathered
that the opponent No.1 has paid Rs.5 Lakhs to Ambejogai Bank and he is
expecting for reimbursement of said amount from complainant No.1 as he
has not received balance consideration the amount of Rs.5 Lakhs towards
his agreement with complainant No.1. Therefore, with this only payment
of Rs.1 Laksh is made by the complainant No.1 to be deducted from unpaid
amount of Rs.6 Lakh. Hence at the most in view of Bharna Pavati dt.
23.2.2017 and consent letter executed on the same date between the parties,
 18 CC/29/2017

directions can be given to execute the sale deed by opponent No.1 in favour
of complainant No.1 by accepting the amount of Rs.5 Lakhs which is
remained unpaid. Further considering the several transactions between the
parties and the fact that, the complainant and opponent No.2 have
intermixed several transactions and adjustment against the civil disputes
between the parties and thereby caused delay to execute the sale deed in
favour of opponent No.1 or complainant No.1. Hence, only relief of
execution of sale deed can be granted in favour of complainant No.1 in
view of agreement between him and opponent No1. No other relief are
granted as prayed by the complainants towards the compensation and
interest on unpaid amount. 35. It cannot be ignored that, in spite of agreement between complainant
No.1 and opponents and consent terms between the parties out of
compromise in civil suit, the opponent No.2 has adjusted his amount.
However, the opponents failed to complete the construction and to execute
the sale deed with clear cut title as agreed between them vide agreement
between complainant No.1 & opponent No.1 and consent letter dated
23.2.2012 executed by opponent No.2 consenting their agreement.
Moreover, even after having knowledge that the opponent No.1 has
received huge amount from complainant No.1 the opponents failed to
execute the sale deed in favour of complainant No.1 and thereby both the
opponents caused deficiency in service towards the complainant No.1.
Therefore, the complainant No.1 be compensated by directing both the
opponents to pay him Rs.25,000/- each. Complainants have also claimed
the expenses incurred for completing construction but no such details are
on record. The complainants have also claimed compensation but it has
come on record that they are in possession of property and enjoying it.
Hence, no other relief granted. 19 CC/29/2017 36. The complainants have also claimed execution of sale deed in favour
of all the three complainants as the complainant No.2 has executed power
of attorney in favour of complainants No.1&3. It is in respect of
development agreement. However, the complainant No.1 entered into
agreement with opponent No.1. Hence, the relief of execution of sale deed
is granted in favour of complainant No.1 only, in view of agreement to sale
and as no other transactions between complainants and opponent No.2
against development agreement is considered here. 37. The opponent No.2 has also raised objection that the transaction is
required evidence with voluminous document and rights to be declared by
Civil Court. This Commission also cannot grant the relief of cancellation of
sale deed as prayed by complainants by amending the complaint. Hence, he
placed reliance upon the reported case Consumer case No. 111/2012
Chilkari Adarsh Vs. M/s ESS ESS VEE constructions decided by Hon'ble
National Commission on 2nd July 2012 and 2) Jagmotor Chhabru & Anr.
Vs. Dlf Universal Ltd,. on 23rd Aug. 2007 by Hon'ble National
Commission. However, both the cases are not applicable to the case in
hand in view of distinguishing fact and circumstances, as most of the fact,
transactions and documents are admitted between the parties. 38. If the consumer compliant is read as a whole, this Commission can
mould and grant the relief of execution of sale deed in favour of
complainant No.1 on the basis of prima facie documents of agreement to
sale between complainant No.1 and opponent No.1 and consent letter
executed by opponent No.2 consenting said agreement between
complainant No.1 & opponent No.1, which covers under the Consumer
Protection Act, 1986 . Thus, for this Commission there is no hurdle in
 20 CC/29/2017

granting following reliefs. In the circumstances following order is passed. ORDER 1. The consumer complaint No.29/2017 is partly allowed. 2. The complainant No.1 shall deposit amount of Rs.5 Lakhs as balance
 consideration with this Commission payable to opponent No.1
 against agreement to sell between complainant No.1 and opponent
 No.1 in respect of disputed row-houses No.A/1 & A/2 in
 Swapnapurti project constructed on gut No.99, of Mauje Tisgaon,
 near Waluj, Tq.& Dist. Aurangabad within one month from this
 order. 3. The opponent No.1 shall execute the sale deed in respect of row-
 houses No.A/1 & A/2 in Swapnapurti project constructed on Gut
 No.99, of Mauje Tisgaon, near Waluj, Tq.& Dist. Aurangabad within
 one month from depositing the amount by complainant. 4. The complainant No.1 shall bear the registration charges including
 stamp duty. 5. The opponent No.1 is at liberty to withdraw the amount of Rs.5
 Lakhs after execution of sale deed in favour of complainant No.1. 6. The opponent No.1&2 each shall pay Rs.25.000/- each to
 complainant No.1 towards mental agony within 30 days from this
 order. If opponents failed to deposit said amount the complainant
 No.1 is entitled to recover the said amount with interest @ 9 % p.a.
 from the date of this order. 7. Parties to bear their own costs.