Anil Mandal @ Anil Kumar Mandal ... Petitioner
 Versus
 The State of Jharkhand ... Opposite Party ------ CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE ANIL KUMAR CHOUDHARY ------ Heard the parties through video conferencing.
 Learned counsel for the petitioner personally undertakes to
 remove the defects as pointed out by the stamp reporter within
 two weeks after the lockdown period is over.
 In view of the personal undertaking of the learned counsel for
 the petitioner, the defects pointed out by the stamp reporter are
 ignored for the present. Apprehending his arrest, the petitioner has moved this Court
 for grant of privilege of anticipatory bail in connection with
 Dhanbad Cyber P.S. Case No.54 of 2020 registered under sections
 419 / 420 / 120B / 34 of the Indian Penal Code and under Section
 66C/D/84B of I.T. Act. The Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the
 allegation against the petitioner is that the petitioner by voice
 phishing and by serial calling to innocent people using fake
 identity fooling them into believe that the call made by him to be
 from a trusted organization and used to ask questions over the
 phone to find out various personal details with regard to bank
 accounts along with co-accused person. It is further submitted that
 the allegations against the petitioner are all false and nothing has
 been recovered from the conscious possession of the petitioner. It
 is next submitted that the petitioner has no criminal antecedent as
 has been mentioned in paragraph no. 11 of the anticipatory bail
 application. It is then submitted that the petitioner is ready and
 willing to furnish sufficient security including cash security and
 undertakes to cooperate with the investigation of the case. Hence,
 it is submitted that the petitioner be given the privilege of
 anticipatory bail. Learned Spl. P.P. opposes the prayer for grant of
 anticipatory bail. Considering the submissions of the counsels and the fact as
 discussed above, I am of the opinion that it is a fit case where the
 above named petitioner be given the privilege of anticipatory bail.
 Hence, in the event of his arrest or surrender within a period of six
 weeks from the date of this order, he shall be released on bail on
 depositing cash security of Rs.15,000/- and on furnishing bail bond
 of Rs. 25,000/- (Rupees Twenty Five Thousand) with two sureties
 of the like amount each to the satisfaction of learned A.S.J.-II-cum-
 Special Judge (Vigilance, Cyber Crime, Electricity Act), Dhanbad,
 in connection with Dhanbad Cyber P.S. Case No.54 of 2020 with
 the condition that the petitioner will cooperate with the
 investigation of the case and appear before the Investigating
 Officer as and when noticed by him and will furnish his mobile
 number and a copy of his Aadhar Card in the court below with the
 undertaking that he will not change his mobile number during the
 pendency of the case subject to the conditions laid down under section 438 (2) Cr. P.C.

 (Anil Kumar Choudhary, J.)
Sonu/Gunjan-