Heard learned counsel for the applicant, learned A.G.A. and perused the record. The bail application under Section 439 Cr.P.C. has been moved by the applicant - Vishes to enlarge him on bail in Case Crime No. 96 of 2022 under Sections 363 , 366 , 376 I.P.C. and 3/4 POCSO Act , Police Station Budhana, District Muzaffar Nagar. It is submitted by the learned counsel for the applicant that the victim, as per her educational certificate, was 17 years and 01 month of age at the time of incident. As per her statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. she was in love with the applicant, she called the applicant in the mid night of 25/26 March 2022, after jumping across the wall, she came out and went along with the applicant. They lived in Delhi. There she is said to have been raped by the applicant. In her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.c. she has not alleged any sexual assault on her by the applicant. As per medical report, no external injury is found on the person of the victim. The applicant is languishing in jail since 02.04.2022, hence, prayer for bail is made. Learned A.G.A. opposed the bail application and submitted that in the statement of victim under Section 161 Cr.P.C. she has specifically stated that she was raped by the applicant. Again, it is submitted that on the date of incident she was 17 years of age and being minor her consent has no significance. From perusal of the record, it is found that as per FIR on the date of incident the victim was 17 years and 01 month of age. In her statement she has stated that she lived with the applicant she went with the applicant on her own volition. In the statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. she has not alleged committal of rape on her. After perusing the record in the light of the submissions made at bar and taking an overall view of all the facts and circumstances of this case, the nature of accusations, severity of punishment in case of conviction, the period of detention already undergone, the unlikelihood of early conclusion of trial without commenting on the merits of the case, this Court is of the view that the applicant may be enlarged on bail. The bail application is allowed. Let the applicant Vishes s/o Dharampal involved in Case Crime No. 96 of 2022 under Sections 363 , 366 , 376 I.P.C. and 3/4 POCSO Act , Police Station Budhana, District Muzaffar Nagar be released on bail on his furnishing personal bonds and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to the following conditions:- In case of breach of any conditions mentioned above, the trial court will be at liberty to cancel the bail of the applicant. Order Date :- 13.12.2022
 
gp