This Petition is filed by the petitioner under Sec.34 of

Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 challenging the
 /3/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

impugned award dated 23/03/2023 passed by the

appellate Arbitral Tribunal in Appeal

No.NSEBEN/0026541/2122/ISC/IGRP/ARB/APPL. 2. The parties are referred as per their original rank

before the arbitral tribunal for the sake of clarity. 3. The brief facts leading to filing of this petition are as

follows; It is the case of the petitioner that it is a registered

stock broker having membership with BSE Limited and

NSE and previously undertaking trade under the name of

ICICI Web Trade Limited which was later merged with ICICI

Brokerage Services Limited and further it changed to ICICI

Securities Limited. Respondent No.1 is a constituent who

has been trading since 2004 and opened 3 in 1 account

including bank and demat account with ICICI bank from

26/10/2015. Thus 3 in 1 account is a joint offering by

ICICI Bank integrates a trading account, bank account and
 /4/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

demat account to provide online trading facility. The

relationship between petitioner and respondent No.1 herein

commenced upon execution of a margin trading account

dated 26/10/2015 and during the span of five years there

was active association between the petitioner and

respondent. In the said agreement terms and conditions

were clearly stipulated. Respondent No.1 being an

educated, literate individual who had several years of

experience in online trading was aware of trading

procedures, rules, risks, terms and conditions, SEBI and

NSC guidelines. Respondent No.2 applied to NSC and BSE

to get registered as an authorised person in December 2014

and he was appointed as an authorised person in January

2015. Respondent No.1 at the time of opening the 3 in 1

account requested for linking her demat account with the

trading account. The said demat account had

Rs.42,00,000/- as on 3/11/2015 and at the time of
 /5/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

opening the said account respondent No.1 was provided

with user ID and password which were used by her for

trading account. She agreed to share the confidential login

in credentials across all forums during her trading.

Respondent No.1 herein gave complete authority to

respondent No.2 to sell and purchase shares on her behalf

and allowed him to make payment from her bank account

by providing necessary authentication. Respondent No.1

and 2 were together agreed to their own professional set up

under the contractual obligations and respondent No.2 sold

and purchased shares on behalf of respondent No.1.

Respondent No.1 alleged that the dispute arose when

respondent No.1 stopped trading in 2020 due to her

personal reasons and in 2021 she adhered that her demat

account did not hold the shares which were displayed in the

portfolio tracker. Thereafter respondent No.1 went to the

office of petitioner to complete KYC formalities for closing
 /6/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

her account and she was informed by the petitioner that

her demat account showed value of Rs.7,000/- only and a

loss of Rs.29.42 lakhs. In this connection respondent No.1

made email communication with this petitioner and she

also raised complaint against respondent No.2. According

to petitioner in respect of this dispute the respondent No.1

herein approached Arbitral Tribunal constituted under

NSEIL and the Arbitrators who are appointed therein

dismissed the claim petition of respondent No.1 on merits.

Respondent No.1 challenged this award before the Appellate

Arbitral Tribunal and the Arbitrators allowed the appeal

and set aside the arbitral award passed on 25/11/2022

and thereby directed this petitioner to pay Rs.12,77,858/-

within 30 days from the date of this award. Aggrieved by

this award passed by the Appellate Arbitral Tribunal the

petitioner herein who was the respondent No.1 filed the
 /7/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

present petition under section 34 of Arbitration and

Conciliation Act seeking set aside of the award. 4. After service of notice respondent No.1 filed her

objections denying the averments of the petition and intra

alia contended that from December 2006 when she opened

the account for online share trading she was doing business

of selling and purchasing shares through respondent No.2

who was the authorised person under this petitioner and

the empty account was opened on 28/09/2015 and it was

the 2nd respondent who was doing all the trading

transactions with the consent of this respondent No.1 and

he used to update her about periodical share holdings by

sending portfolio tracker. According to respondent No.1 she

did not receive any demat account statement to her email

ID by this petitioner and this practice continued for five

years till October 2020 when this respondent No.1 informed
 /8/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

petitioner and respondent No.2 that she will stop margin

trading due to personal reasons and at that time though PT

was showing value of her shares at Rs.61.68 lakhs in

October 2020 but however on checking with respondent

No.1 her demat account showed the value of her portfolio as

Rs.7,000/- only and showed net loss of Rs.29.42.

According to her this was the fraud committed by

respondent No.2 and hence respondent No.1 who is

vicariously liable to make payment to this respondent No.1.

Accordingly she sought for dismissal of the petition. 5. After holding a detailed enquiry and on hearing both

side, the learned sole arbitrator allowed the claim petition

passing award in favour of the claimant/respondent

aggrieved by which the present petition is filed by this

petitioner. /9/
 Com.A.P.89/2023 6. Now the point that arise for my consideration are; 1. Whether, the present petition deserves to
 be allowed and the impugned award dtd: 2. What Order? 7. My findings on the above Points are as under: 8. Point No.1 :- I have carefully gone through both the

award passed by the three Arbitrators on 25/11/2022 and

also the award passed by the Arbitral Appellate Tribunal

dated 23/3/2023. In the present petition the petitioner has

taken following grounds for setting aside the award passed by

the Appellate Arbitral Tribunal. According to petitioner the

said award is liable to be set aside as the Arbitrators have
 /10/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

committed patent illegality by not considering the case of the

petitioner. Apart from this they have also ignored the settled

principle of law and the decisions of IGRP order. Further the

Appellate Tribunal also failed to appreciate that respondent

No.1 and 2 entered into private arrangement by virtue of

which respondent No.1 privately authorised respondent No.2

to undertake the work of trading on her behalf and hence

holding this petitioner liable for payment is illegal. Both

counsels for petitioner and respondent filed the respective

written arguments which are the replica of their pleadings.

On careful perusal of both the awards it is an admitted fact

that this respondent No.1 was doing share trading through

respondent No.2. It is the specific contention of this

respondent No.1 before the Arbitral Tribunal that she opened

her empty account on 28/09/2015 and she stopped trading

in October 2020 and in July 2021 when she verified in the

office of this petitioner her demat account showed the value

of her portfolio at Rs.7,000/- only and loss of Rs.29.42 lakhs
 /11/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

and through an email dated 6/7/2021 she brought this fact

to the notice of this petitioner requesting them to investigate.

Petitioner through an email dated 16/8/2021 stated that

current holdings of respondent No.1 stood at Rs.4,875/- as

per demat statement on 16/8/2021 and the higher value

shown in the PT was due to several entries being updated

manually without mentioning who had edited the entries.

Meanwhile petitioner terminated respondent No.2 for non-

compliance. According to respondent No.1 the manual

entries in the PT constitute misrepresentation of facts with

fraudulent intention of respondent No.2 and therefore she

requested the Arbitration Tribunal to direct this petitioner to

correct all the stocks in the PT to her demat account apart

from other reliefs. If we peruse the findings and conclusions

of the Arbitral Tribunal, the Tribunal gone through the merits

of the case and also heard the arguments of both parties and

raised a question as to whether the claim of the applicant

who is respondent No.1 herein is admissible and whether this
 /12/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

petitioner is responsible for causing loss as alleged by her.

The Tribunal observed that it is not in dispute that the

respondent No.1 is a constituent of this petitioner since 2004

and she opened an online trading account with this petitioner

for purchase of shares and it is also not in dispute that

respondent No.2 was an employee of this petitioner with

whom respondent No.1 interacted from 2013 onwards. It is

also an admitted fact that respondent No.2 became a sub-

broker of this petitioner in 2015. The Tribunal also observed

as per the own admissions of respondent No.1 herein the

contract notes for the trade executed were sent to registered

email ID of respondent No.1 which were duly received by her

and she also admitted that she did not bother to check those

emails. According to petitioner demat account statements

were sent to R1 regularly on monthly basis and at no point of

time R1 raised any dispute during the five years period. The

Tribunal also observed that respondent No.1 had experience

of nine years in trading even prior to opening new trading
 /13/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

account with petitioner in 2015 which was corroborated by

the records and it was also observed that with this experience

respondent No.1 was expected to know that trading members

sends periodical statement of holdings besides contract

notes, SMS, ledger statements, etc., on trade confirmation for

the trades done in her account. The Arbitral Tribunal

observed that ignorance of respondent No.1 with respect to

NSC regulations cannot be justified by any stretch of

imagination as respondent No.1 has accepted receipt of all

communications sent to her registered email ID by this

petitioner. Coming to the question of her claim of non-receipt

of demat accounts the Tribunal observed that the reason

given by respondent No.1 is not convincing as she never

bothered to take up that issue with this petitioner who was a

trading member though she knew that she had not been

receiving them in her registered email ID. The Tribunal also

observed the fact that this respondent No.1 shared her

confidential credentials to login to her trading account by this
 /14/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

respondent No.2 which is also breach of confidentiality clause

which is accepted to be strictly adhered to by the claims for

operation of any account whether it is the bank account or

trading account. It was also observed that alleged fraud was

never reported to competent authority during the period 2015

to 2020 and this respondent No.1 herself committed fault on

both accounts sharing her password and not reporting the

fraud within time. For this reason the Arbitration Tribunal

passed an award on 25/11/2022 rejecting the claim of

respondent No.1 herein who was the claimant before the

Tribunal. 9. On perusal of the award passed by the Appellate

Tribunal while giving findings and conclusions the Tribunal

observed the undisputed facts between the parties and the

Tribunal ventured into the allegations made by this

respondent No.1 against respondent No.2 and observed that

there was a clear disclaimer given on the website of this
 /15/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

petitioner that the PT is editable and the values shown in it

are not the true reflection of the share value. In para 8 of the

award in question the Tribunal held that there is

contradictory negligence on the part of this respondent No.1

in having compromised password and other credentials and

reposed compliance trust on respondent No.2 to carry out

trading in her account and further it also find fault that

respondent No.1 having not verified the contract notes,

demat statements, SMS alerts sent as and when the trade

was carried out periodically. The Tribunal also found fault

with respondent No.1 having not raised alarm with the

petitioner in respect of fraud committed by R2 within

reasonable time and also the fact of termination of R2 by this

petitioner. In letter dated 2/3/2021 petitioner herein has

clearly mentioned that respondent No.2 has violated the

trading rules and not complied with regulatory requirements

and committed violation of the said rules and in the same

letter it was also mentioned that the termination will not
 /16/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

affect the liabilities and obligations and shall be liable for

satisfactory completion of transactions affected prior to

closing date. The Tribunal observed that the contents of this

termination letter finding fault with respondent No.2 having

carried out unauthorised trades in R1's account and

petitioner agreed to the fact that these unauthorised trades

were done by R2 and hence they took administration action

and terminated him and only that can be done as per rules

and regulations of the petitioner. The Tribunal in para 9

observed "To a question on what will happen to losses if any,

suffered by the applicant, the respondent could not give

proper answer. This itself is an admission of the mistake /

unauthorised act committed by the respondent authorised

agent." For this reason the Appellate Arbitral Tribunal set

aside the arbitral award passed by the Arbitrators. On

careful perusal of these two awards though respondent No.1

herein has categorically proved that she shown negligence,

ignorance for a period of five years without checking on the
 /17/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

emails, SMS sent by the petitioner timely updated her trading

transactions on her empty account. Apart from this the

respondent No.1 though having experience in trading for a

long time is expected to know all the rules and regulations

and liability of a sub-broker and her boundaries while

sharing her password and other confidential credentials to do

trading from her account. Further respondent No.1 also not

placed any material before the Appellate Arbitral Tribunal to

show that how petitioner could be made responsible for the

fraud committed by respondent No.2. The documents

produced by the petitioner clearly shows that from 2015 to

2020 this respondent No.1 was silent and she woke up only

when an email was sent by the petitioner and thereafter she

terminated the trading agreement with this petitioner. On

careful perusal of the award in question I hold that it is

against to principle of natural justice and the negligence,

ignorance on the part of respondent No.1 was not considered

as an important credential to decide the dispute and instead
 /18/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

the Tribunal held this petitioner liable to make payment

though respondent No.1 did not produce any documents to

show as to how and on what basis petitioner shall be held

responsible. During the course of arguments counsel for

respondent No.1 has produced following citations: /19/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

 (5) 2024 SCC Online SC 2600 in OPG

 Power Generation Private Limited Vs.

 Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India

 Private Limited and another . 10. Similarly counsel for petitioner also relied on following

citations: /20/
 Com.A.P.89/2023

 (4) (2018) 16 SCC 758 in Lion Engineering

 Consultants Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh

 & others . 11. I have carefully gone through these decisions. In my

opinion the award passed by the Appellate Arbitral Tribunal

since suffers from patent illegality and the award was passed

by not considering the trading rules and regulations, same

needs to be set aside. Accordingly I answer point No.1 in the

"Affirmative". 12. Point No.2:- For the aforesaid reasons, I

proceed to pass the following: