1. Heard learned Counsel for the petitioner and

 learned APP for the State. 2. This application, for grant of anticipatory bail,

 arises out of Rauta PS case no. 218 of 2023, disclosing offences

 punishable under Section 420 and other allied sections of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 66(c) and (d) of the Information

 Technology Act . 3. The prosecution story, as per the First Information

 Report, is that on 16.12.2023 at about 4:45 pm, when the

 informant along with patrolling party reached near Baisa bridge,

 they saw that four persons sitting on two motorcycles were

 talking and upon seeing police party, they started fleeing away

 but upon chase, three of them were apprehended. In presence of
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.67122 of 2024(2) dt.22-10-2024 2/3 independent witnesses, the accused persons were searched and

 equipments of cyber crime were recovered, which were used to

 withdraw money from the account of individuals. It is further

 alleged that accused persons namely Najish and Ashf had

 disclosed the name of the petitioner as the leader of the gang

 and they told that on his direction, they used to withdraw money

 and divide it amongst them. 4. Learned Counsel for the petitioner submits that the

 petitioner is innocent and has falsely been implicated in this

 case on the basis of confessional statement of arrested

 co- accused Najish and Ashf. Learned counsel further submits

 that on the alleged date of occurrence, the petitioner was in

 Bidar (Karnataka) for the purpose of exam of his wife. The

 petitioner is stated to be having one criminal antecedent. 5. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and

 perused the materials on record. The Police apprehended three

 persons with incriminating articles, which appears to be used in

 cyber crime. The apprehended persons have disclosed that on

 the direction of petitioner, they operate an organized gang for

 committing cyber crime. The Police recovered equipments of

 cyber crime from arrested accused persons. It appears that all

 accused persons have formed a gang to defraud the innocent
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.67122 of 2024(2) dt.22-10-2024 3/3 public and the phishing/ cyber fraud is rampant in the area,

 where the attackers try to trick individuals into providing user

 names, password and other details and are indulged in e-mail

 phishing, voice phishing, SMS phishing etc. and the case is still

 under investigation, for which, custodial interrogation of the

 petitioner may be required. Hence, I am not inclined to grant the

 privilege of anticipatory bail to the petitioner. 6. The prayer for anticipatory bail of the petitioner is,

 accordingly, rejected. (Anil Kumar Sinha, J)

rinkee/-