Heard learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Saran Kumar,
learned counsel for the informant and learned A.G.A. and
perused the material placed on record. Applicant-Vish Kumar @ Bhola seeks bail in Case Crime No.
353 of 2009, under Sections 452 and 376 I.P.C., Police
Station Narkhi, District Firozabad. It is contended by learned counsel for the applicant that
according to the medical opinion, the victim was found to be
aged above 17 years and below 18 years and it cannot be
said that any rape was committed on her. Relying upon the
decision of Bibhishan versus State of Maharashta 2008 (3)
Supreme Court Cases (Crl.) 163, he has further submitted
that absence of injury or mark of violence on her body
further demolishes the story of prosecution. He has further
submitted that statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. cannot be accepted on the face of it and
it is very unnatural and against human conduct. He further
submits that entire conduct of the prosecutrix clearly shows
that she was consenting party to the sexual intercourse and
if this is so, the applicant is entitled to be released on bail.
He further submits that applicant, according to the School
Leaving Certificate as well as medical report is aged about
15 years. He has further contended that the applicant is in
jail since 11.8.2009 and trial has not commenced which is
likely to consume some time to conclude and, moreover, he
has got no criminal history to his credit. The bail is, however, opposed by the learned A.G.A. as well
as learned counsel for the informant. It is contended that as
per the school leaving certificate the date of birth of the
victim is 29.8.1994 i.e. she is aged about 15 years and
school leaving certificate will prevail over the medical report,
 thus the applicant does not deserve to be released on bail. The points pertaining to nature of accusation, severity of
punishment, reasonable apprehension of tampering the
witnesses, prima facie, satisfaction regarding proposed
evidence and genuineness of the prosecution case were
duly considered. Considering totality of circumstances of the case, I consider
it a fit case to enlarge the applicants on bail. Without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, let
the applicant-Vish Kumar @ Bhola involved in aforesaid
crime be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond
of Rs. 25,000/- and two sureties each in the like amount to
the satisfaction of the court concerned. Order Date :- 2.2.2010
MN/-