R. BANUMATHI, J. Leave granted. 2. This appeal arises out of the order of the High Court of

 Gujarat dated 03.05.2017 allowing the Criminal Revision No.264 of

 2017 in and by which the High Court has set aside the order dated

 15.11.2014 passed by the Chief Judicial Magistrate at Surat by

 which the Magistrate had taken cognizance of the offences

 punishable under Sections 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 477A and 120-B IPC on the basis of the second supplementary charge sheet

 filed by the police in Criminal Case No.62851/2014 and ordered

 issuance of process to the respondent-accused. 3. Brief factual matrix of the case is that a complaint was filed Signature Not Verified by the Manager of ICICI Bank against M/s R.A. Distributors Pvt. Ltd. Digitally signed by alleging that they hatched a conspiracy and as a part of this
MAHABIR SINGH
Date: 2019.02.05
17:29:51 IST
Reason: 4. Based on the aforesaid complaint, FIR No.16/2014 dated

11.04.2014 was registered against M/s R.A. Distributors Pvt. Ltd &

its Directors, namely Shailesh Rameshbhai Patel and Aniket Ashok

Ambekar under Sections 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 477A and 120B IPC. The complainant, in his complaint had stated that the

accused mentioned in the complaint, had hatched a criminal

conspiracy and in all, deposited 17 bogus and fabricated Bill of 2 Entries and had presented the said forged Bills of Entries before

the ICICI Bank, Surat and thus illegally transferred

Rs.104,60,99,082/- through Hawala to Dubai and Hong Kong to

different companies and had cheated with Government of India.

The said FIR did not contain the name of the respondent herein. 5. During the course of investigation, statement of one

Prafulbhai Mohanbhai Patel was recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C.

on 01.08.2014 and as per the prosecution, the said statement of

Prafulbhai Patel implicates respondent-accused Afroz Mohammed

Hasanfatta and the other accused persons namely Madanlal

Manikchand Jain and Amit @ Bilal Haroon Gilani. Case of the

prosecution is that the aforesaid accused along with others

hatched a criminal conspiracy to cheat the Government of India by

siphoning off huge amounts of money through Hawala. 6. Statement of other witnesses viz. Babubhai Kanjibhai Patel,

partner of S. Babulal Angadiya and Pravinbhai Jethabhai Patel,

Manager of Babulal Angadiya was recorded on 11.08.2014.

Charge sheet was filed under Section 173 Cr.P.C. in Criminal Case

No.47715/2014 on 18.08.2014 against two persons namely Sunil

Agarwal and Ratan Agarwal. In the said charge sheet, the

respondent-accused was referred to as a ‘ suspect’. The

respondent-accused Afroz Hasanfatta was arrested by the police

officers of DCB Police Station, Surat on 20.08.2014 for

investigation in connection with FIR No.16/2014. The first 3 supplementary charge sheet was filed under Section 173(8) Cr.P.C.

in Criminal Case No.55259/2014 against Madanlal Manikchand Jain

on 30.09.2014. According to the appellant, in the said first

supplementary charge-sheet, the respondent-accused was not

added as an accused as the statutory period for filing charge sheet

in the case of respondent-accused had not expired. 7. During the course of further investigation, statement of

witnesses C.A. Surendra Dhareva, Amratbhai Narottamdas Patel

and elder brother of the respondent-accused Jafar Mohammed

Hasanfatta, was recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. As per the

prosecution, the said statement of Jafar Mohammed Hasanfatta,

elder brother of respondent-accused shows that the respondent

has arranged to transfer Rs.3,00,00,000/- into the account of his

brother Jafar Mohammed Hasanfatta through RTGS from Natural

Trading Company, owned by co-accused Madanlal Jain. The

respondent-accused is the sole proprietor of the Nile Industries

Pvt. Ltd. Statement of Samir Jiker Gohil, Manager of the said Nile

Industries Pvt. Ltd. was recorded on 18.10.2014. According to the

prosecution, bank statement of account of respondent-accused in

the Union Bank of India, Nanpura Branch from 31.12.2013 to

25.03.2014 reflects crores of money having been transferred from

Natural Trading Company account to respondent’s Company-Nile

Trading Corporation. Further bank statement of Nile Trading

Corporation also reflects credit of huge amount into its account 4 from Gangeshwar Merchantile Pvt. Ltd. owned by Madanlal Jain.

Based on further investigation, namely statement of witnesses,

bank transactions and copy of Call Details Record between

respondent and Madanlal Jain and other accused, second

supplementary charge sheet was filed arraigning the respondent

as accused No.1 and Amit @ Bilal Haroon Gilani as accused No.2.

Based on the second supplementary charge sheet, cognizance was

taken of the offences under Sections 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 477A and 120B IPC in Criminal Case No.62851/2014 on 15.11.2014

and the Magistrate ordered issuance of summons against the

accused arraigned thereon including the respondent-Afroz

Hasanfatta. 8. The High Court granted bail to the respondent accused in FIR

No.16/2014 vide order dated 05.03.2015. The respondent-accused

filed Criminal Revision Application No.264 of 2017 before the High

Court of Gujarat assailing the order dated 15.11.2014 passed by

the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Surat. The High Court vide order

dated 24.03.2017 condoned the delay of 766 days in filing the

revision. By the impugned order dated 03.05.2017, the learned

Single Judge allowed the criminal revision and set aside the order

of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Surat taking cognizance of the

offences based on the second supplementary charge sheet

No.62851/2014 dated 15.11.2014 and directing issuance of

summons to the respondent-accused under Sections 420 , 465 , 5 467 , 468 , 471 , 477A and 120B IPC. The High Court held that there

is no material either direct or circumstantial to point out any

connection of the respondent-accused with alleged offences of

forgery, cheating, conspiracy etc. The High Court further held that

there was no material to show that the respondent was

fraudulently sending his undisclosed cash income abroad through

Hawala nor any material to show that he was receiving cash from

any person fraudulently and sending the same in foreign exchange

to foreign companies through Hawala to earn any commission.

The High Court held that roping in of the accused with the aid of Section 120B IPC is also not substantiated by any material.

Contentions:- 9. Mr. Pritesh Kapur, learned counsel for the appellant-State

submitted that time and again, it has been laid down that while

issuing summons, the Magistrate is to be satisfied that “there is

sufficient ground for proceeding” and on the basis of the materials

filed along with the second supplementary charge sheet, the

Magistrate took cognizance of the offences and directed issuance

of summons to the respondent and Amit @ Bilal Haroon Gilani and

the same ought not to have been inferred. The learned counsel

further submitted that issuance of summons, being an

interlocutory order, the High Court in exercise of its revisional

jurisdiction ought not to have set aside the order of issuance of

summons. The learned counsel further submitted that the learned 6 Single Judge erred in proceeding under the footing as if it is a

simple case of forgery of the Bills of Entry and did not keep in view

that the present case is a complex economic offence of sending

foreign exchange abroad to foreign companies in Dubai and

Hongkong through “hawala” by setting up a web of companies.

Placing reliance upon number of decisions, the learned counsel for

the appellant-State submitted that at the stage of issuance of the

summons, the Court is not to examine the merits and demerits of

the case and the possible defence are not to be examined. 10. Per contra, Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel for the

respondent submitted that summoning an accused is a very

serious step and there should be strict examination of the

materials on record and the summoning order must reflect the

application of mind by the Magistrate. It was further submitted

that the alleged statement of Praful Patel dated 01.08.2014 relied

upon by the prosecution was rightly held to be in the nature of

hearsay and inadmissible qua the respondent. The learned senior

counsel further submitted that Angadiyas as well as Praful Patel

who is alleged to have transferred the cash by RTGS to the

companies in ICICI Bank would form a vital link in the alleged flow

of money and they have not been shown as accused and the

contention of the State with regard to the statement of Praful Patel

is bereft of any merits. The learned senior counsel further

submitted that absolutely there is no evidence to connect the 7 respondent with the companies in ICICI Bank and other foreign

companies based in Hong Kong and Dubai to whom the foreign

exchange is alleged to have been sent and in the absence of any

material, learned Single Judge rightly held that there was no

sufficient ground in proceeding against the respondent and the

impugned order of the High Court warrants no interference. 11. Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned senior counsel appearing for

the respondent has placed reliance upon number of judgments

and submitted that the Magistrate to take cognizance of an

offence, irrespective of the fact that the cognizance is based upon

a police report or on a complaint. Placing reliance upon Pepsi

Foods Ltd. and Another v. Special Judge Magistrate and

Others (1998) 5 SCC 749, the learned senior counsel submitted

that summoning of an accused in a criminal case is a serious

offence and the order of the Magistrate is bereft of reasons

indicating the application of mind and the impugned order was

rightly quashed by the High Court. 12. We have carefully considered the contentions and perused

the impugned judgment and materials on record, the following

points arise for consideration:- 13. The charge sheet was filed in Criminal Case No.47715/2014

on 18.08.2014 against the accused persons namely Sunil Agrawal

and Ratan Agrawal. In the first charge sheet, the respondent-Afroz

Mohammad Hasanfatta (Afroz Hasanfatta) was referred to as a

suspect. In the second supplementary charge sheet filed on

15.11.2014 in Criminal Case No.62851/2014, the respondent-Afroz

is arraigned as accused No.1 and Amit @ Bilal Haroon Gilani as

accused No.2. In the second supplementary charge sheet,

prosecution relies upon the statement of witnesses as well as on

certain bank transactions as to flow of money into the account of

the respondent-Afroz Hasanfatta and his Company-Nile Trading

Corporation. The order of taking cognizance of the second

supplementary charge sheet and issuance of summons to the

respondent-Afroz Hasanfatta reads as under:- 12. A “summons” is a process issued by a court calling upon a
person to appear before a Magistrate. It is used for the purpose
of notifying an individual of his legal obligation to appear before
the Magistrate as a response to violation of law. In other words,
the summons will announce to the person to whom it is directed
that a legal proceeding has been started against that person
and the date and time on which the person must appear in
court. A person who is summoned is legally bound to appear
before the court on the given date and time. Wilful disobedience
is liable to be punished under Section 174 IPC. It is a ground for
contempt of court. 13. Section 204 of the Code does not mandate the Magistrate to
explicitly state the reasons for issuance of summons. It clearly
states that if in the opinion of a Magistrate taking cognizance of
an offence, there is sufficient ground for proceeding, then the
summons may be issued. This section mandates the Magistrate
to form an opinion as to whether there exists a sufficient ground
for summons to be issued but it is nowhere mentioned in the
section that the explicit narration of the same is mandatory,
meaning thereby that it is not a prerequisite for deciding the
validity of the summons issued.” [underlining added] 11 16. After referring to Bhushan Kumar, Videocon

International Limited and other decisions, in Mehmood Ul

Rehman v. Khazir Mohammad Tunda and others (2015) 12

SCC 420, it was held as under:- 17. The learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent-

accused relied upon various judgments to contend that while

taking cognizance, the court has to record the reasons that prima

facie case is made out and that there are sufficient grounds for

proceeding against the accused for that offence. The learned

senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent-accused

relied upon judgments in the case of Pepsi Foods Ltd. and

Mehmood Ul Rehman to contend that while taking cognizance,

the Court has to record reasons that prima facie case is made out

and that there are sufficient grounds for proceeding against the 12 accused for that offence. On the facts and circumstances of those

cases, this Court held that the order of the Magistrate summoning

the accused must reflect that he has applied his mind to the facts

of the case and the law applicable thereto. However, what needs

to be understood is that those cases relate to issuance of process

taking cognizance of offences based on the complaint. Be it noted

that as per the definition under Section 2(d) Cr.P.C, ‘complaint’

does not include a police report. Those cases do not relate to

taking of cognizance upon a police report under Section 190(1)(b) Cr.P.C. Those cases relate to taking cognizance of offences based

on the complaint. In fact, it was also observed in the case of

Mehmood Ul Rehman that “under Section 190(1)(b) Cr.P.C., the

Magistrate has the advantage of a police report; but under Section

190(1)(a) Cr.P.C., he has only a complaint before him. Hence, the

code specifies that “a complaint of facts which constitutes an

offence”. 18. Section 190(1)(a) Cr.P.C. provides for cognizance of

complaint. Section 190(1)(b) Cr.P.C. deals with taking cognizance

of any offence on the basis of police report under Section 173(2) Cr.P.C. Complaint is defined in Section 2(d) Cr.P.C. which reads as

under:- 19. In a case instituted on a police report, in warrant cases,

under Section 239 Cr.P.C., upon considering the police report and

the documents filed along with it under Section 173 Cr.P.C., the

Magistrate after affording opportunity of hearing to both the

accused and the prosecution, shall discharge the accused, if the

Magistrate considers the charge against the accused to be 14 groundless and record his reasons for so doing. Then comes

Chapter XIX-C – Conclusion of trial - the Magistrate to rendering

final judgment under Section 248 Cr.P.C. considering the various

provisions and pointing out three stages of the case. Observing

that there is no requirement of recording reasons for issuance of

process under Section 204 Cr.P.C., in Raj Kumar Agarwal v.

State of U.P. and another 1999 Cr.LJ 4101, Justice B.K. Rathi, the

learned Single Judge of the Allahabad High Court held as under:- 20. In para (21) of Mehmood Ali Rehman, this Court has made

a fine distinction between taking cognizance based upon charge

sheet filed by the police under Section 190(1)(b) Cr.P.C. and a

private complaint under Section 190(1)(a) Cr.P.C. and held as

under:- 21. In summoning the accused, it is not necessary for the

Magistrate to examine the merits and demerits of the case and

whether the materials collected is adequate for supporting the

conviction. The court is not required to evaluate the evidence and

its merits. The standard to be adopted for summoning the

accused under Section 204 Cr.P.C. is not the same at the time of

framing the charge. For issuance of summons under Section 204 Cr.P.C., the expression used is “there is sufficient ground for

proceeding…..”; whereas for framing the charges, the expression

used in Sections 240 and 246 IPC is “ there is ground for presuming 16 that the accused has committed an offence….. ”. At the stage of

taking cognizance of the offence based upon a police report and

for issuance of summons under Section 204 Cr.P.C., detailed

enquiry regarding the merits and demerits of the case is not

required. The fact that after investigation of the case, the police

has filed charge sheet along with the materials thereon may be

considered as sufficient ground for proceeding for issuance of

summons under Section 204 Cr.P.C. 22. In so far as taking cognizance based on the police report, the

Magistrate has the advantage of the charge sheet, statement of

witnesses and other evidence collected by the police during the

investigation. Investigating Officer/SHO collects the necessary

evidence during the investigation conducted in compliance with

the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code and in accordance

with the rules of investigation. Evidence and materials so collected

are sifted at the level of the Investigating Officer and thereafter,

charge sheet was filed. In appropriate cases, opinion of the Public

Prosecutor is also obtained before filing the charge sheet. The

court thus has the advantage of the police report along with the

materials placed before it by the police. Under Section 190 (1)(b) Cr.P.C., where the Magistrate has taken cognizance of an offence

upon a police report and the Magistrate is satisfied that there is

sufficient ground for proceeding, the Magistrate directs issuance of

process. In case of taking cognizance of an offence based upon 17 the police report, the Magistrate is not required to record reasons

for issuing the process. In cases instituted on a police report, the

Magistrate is only required to pass an order issuing summons to

the accused. Such an order of issuing summons to the accused is

based upon subject to satisfaction of the Magistrate considering

the police report and other documents and satisfying himself that

there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused. In a

case based upon the police report, at the stage of issuing the

summons to the accused, the Magistrate is not required to record

any reason. In case, if the charge sheet is barred by law or where

there is lack of jurisdiction or when the charge sheet is rejected or

not taken on file, then the Magistrate is required to record his

reasons for rejection of the charge sheet and for not taking on file.

In the present case, cognizance of the offence has been taken by

taking into consideration the charge sheet filed by the police for

the offence under Sections 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 477A and 120B IPC, the order for issuance of process without explicitly

recording reasons for its satisfaction for issue of process does not

suffer from any illegality. Whether revision under Section 397(2) Cr.P.C. against order
of issue of process is maintainable:- 23. In the case of Amar Nath and Others v. State of

Haryana and Another (1977) 4 SCC 137, it was held by this

Court that the term “interlocutory order” in Section 397(2) Cr.P.C.

denotes orders of purely interim or temporary nature which do not 18 decide or touch the important rights or liabilities of the parties and

any order which substantially affects the right of the parties

cannot be said to be an ‘interlocutory order’. In K.K. Patel and

Another v. State of Gujarat and Another (2000) 6 SCC 195,

this Court held as under:- 24. The question whether against the order of issuance of

summons under Section 204 Cr.P.C., the aggrieved party can

invoke revisional jurisdiction under Section 397 Cr.P.C. has been

elaborately considered by this Court in Urmila Devi v. Yudhvir

Singh (2013) 15 SCC 624. After referring to various judgments, it

was held as under:- 25. After referring to various judgments, in Urmila Devi, this

Court summarised the conclusion as under:- ……….. 23. Therefore, the position has now come to rest to the effect
 that the revisional jurisdiction under Section 397 CrPC is
 available to the aggrieved party in challenging the order of the
 Magistrate, directing issuance of summons.”
In a catena of judgments, it has been held that the aggrieved

party has the right to challenge the order of Magistrate directing

issuance of summons. 26. The Single Judge has proceeded to examine the case as if it

is a simple case of submission of forged Bills of Entry by observing

that “the instant case is not related to any import or export of

diamonds but relating to submitting forged Bills of Entry for

making remittance….”. In our view, the learned Single Judge was

not right in proceeding under the footing as if the case was a

simple case of presenting forged Bills of Entry. The case of

prosecution is a complex economic offence of sending foreign

exchange to companies based in Dubai and Hong Kong through

Hawala by setting up a web of companies; alleged collection of

cash in rupees from the persons wishing to send money abroad,

transfer of this cash through Angadia firms-couriers S. Babulal

Angadias and others to Prafulbhai Patel who in turn deposited the

cash via RTGS through a chain of companies which ultimately

reached a chain of companies (vide chart infra) operated by 21 accused Madanlal Jain. These companies approached the ICICI

 Bank and other banks and opened Letters of Credit and by

 presenting fake Bills of Entry on the fraudulent misrepresentation

 that these Bills of Entry were genuine and that there had been

 genuine import of diamonds. The ICICI Bank and other banks were

 fraudulently induced to remit this amount in foreign exchange to

 foreign companies (vide chart infra) in Dubai and Hong Kong. The

 offence alleged to have been committed is a complex economic

 offence of sending foreign exchange to Dubai and Hong Kong and

 not a simple case of forged Bills of Entry. The trail of the cash from

 India and remittance of the same in foreign exchange to the

 foreign companies is depicted as under:- (Operated by Accused/Madanlal Jain) (Hong Kong) 22 1. Mabrook Trading FZE 2. Nippon Incorporation Ltd. 3. Cornell Trading (H/K) Ltd. 4. Al Almas FZE Ltd. (Dubai) 1. Mabrook Trading FZE 2. Al Almas FZE Ltd. 3. Al Saba General Trading FZE
 (Operated by 27. In para (15.4), the learned Single Judge observed that “ the
 Accused/Madanlal Jain)

respondent-accused is neither director nor any authorized person

for any of these seven companies, and there is neither any

allegation that any of these companies were formed and

controlled by the respondent-accused, nor that the bank accounts

of any of these companies were managed by the respondent-

accused”. Here again, the learned Single Judge erred in

proceeding under presumptive footing that the entire transaction

is a simple case of presentation of fake Bills of Entry and

fraudulently inducing the ICICI Bank to remit the foreign exchange

to foreign companies for import of diamonds. Though, presenting

forged and fake Bills of Entry would be an important last leg of the

transaction, the respondent-accused is allegedly involved in the

earlier part of collection of money i.e. by collecting money from

remitters and the respondent-accused and his person Amit @ Bilal

Haroon Gilani sending it to Prafulbhai Patel through Angadias who

in turn transferred the money by RTGS to chain of companies

operated by Madanlal Jain in ICICI Bank. Case of prosecution is

that the persons who played any role in this conspiracy to fraud

and cheat the government and banks is equally liable for the

offence and not merely the persons who actually forged the 23 signature or stamp of the Custom Officers in preparing the fake

Bills of Entry. 28. The learned senior counsel for the respondent-accused Mr.

Mukul Rohatgi submitted that Angadias as well as Prafulbhai Patel

would form a vital link in this flow of money and therefore, they

should have been charged. It was submitted that the very fact

that the Angadias and Prafulbhai Patel are not shown as accused in

any of the charge sheet would show that the prosecution case is

concerned only about fake Bills of Entry and not ‘Hawala’ as

alleged or a complex/economic as alleged. 29. Refuting this contention, learned counsel for the appellant

Mr. Pritesh Kapur submitted that the role of Angadias is only a

courier service i.e. carrying the cash and the role of Prafulbhai

Patel is to convert black money in cash into white. It was

submitted that Angadia as well as Prafulbhai Patel were certainly

participating in the tax fraud by facilitating tax evasion but they

may not have been involved in the remittance of the amount in

foreign exchange to the foreign companies. It was submitted that

if and when any evidence of their involvement in the entities

controlled by Madanlal Jain emerged, they would form part of the

larger conspiracy and fraud involved in the present case. 30. Statement of Prafulbhai Patel:- The statement of

Prafulbhai Patel dated 01.08.2014 shows that he received cash of

over Rs.500,00,000,00/- and deposited the same through RTGS 24 which money found its way to the imported companies operated

by Madanlal Jain and then transferred abroad on the specific

instructions to Madanlal Jain and the respondent-accused. The

statement of Prafulbhai Patel reads as under:- 31. The above statement of Prafulbhai Patel prima facie shows

that the respondent-accused participated in the collection of cash

and also acted as a facilitator for the illegal transfer of cash

abroad. After extracting the statement of Prafulbhai Patel, the

learned Single Judge held that the “ statement of Prafulbhai Patel

no way shows the role of the petitioner in any cheating, forgery,

falsification of accounts, conspiracy, making foreign remittance on

the strength of fake Bills of Entry, dealing of the petitioner in cash

with cheque discounters or Angadias to arrange for remittances

against forged Bills of Entry. ” In our view, the learned Single Judge

erred in observing that the statement of Prafulbhai Patel no way

shows role of the respondent-accused. A reading of the statement

of Prafulbhai Patel prima facie shows that the respondent-accused

was collecting cash and sending it to Prafulbhai Patel through

couriers and thereby acted as a conduit for the illegal transfer of

cash abroad. 26 32. The learned Single Judge then proceeded to examine the

evidentiary value of the statement of Prafulbhai Patel and

observed that the statement of Prafulbhai Patel is in the nature of

hearsay and is inadmissible in evidence. The learned Single Judge

observed that the statement of Prafulbhai Patel with reference to

the respondent’s business and accounts is only hearsay and he

never stated that he had directly or indirectly dealt with the

respondent. 33. The learned senior counsel for the respondent submitted that

the statement of Prafulbhai Patel which is in the nature of hearsay

is inadmissible qua the respondent. It was submitted that there

was no contemporaneous exposition which corroborates the

statement of Prafulbhai Patel to make it fall under Section 6 of

Evidence Act so as to make it admissible as ‘res gestae’. It was

submitted that the statement of Prafulbhai Patel being in the

nature of hearsay and in the absence of any material to bring it

under Section 6 of the Indian Evidence Act, there is no basis for

the allegation against the respondent-accused and the learned

Single Judge rightly held that there is no ground for proceeding

against the accused. 34. The learned counsel appearing for the State of Gujarat has

submitted that at the stage of issuance of summons, the court is

not required to examine merits and demerits of the evidence relied

upon by the prosecution and its evidentiary value. It was further 27 submitted that the statement of Prafulbhai Patel was made in the

presence of Madanlal Jain, respondent-Afroz Hasanfatta and his

person Amit @ Bilal Haroon Gilani and therefore, the statement of

Prafulbhai Patel would definitely fall under Explanation II of Section

8 of Indian Evidence Act which would certainly be admissible in

evidence. In support of his contention, learned counsel relied

upon Balram Prasad Agrawal v. State of Bihar and others (1997) 9 SCC 338. 35. Whether the statement of Prafulbhai Patel is in the nature of

hearsay and whether it is supported by ‘contemporaneous

exposition’ and whether it would fall under ‘ res gestae’ and

whether it is admissible or not is to be seen only at the time of

trial. We are not inclined to go into the merits of the contention of

either party as the same is to be raised and answered only at the

time of trial. Observing that before summoning the accused, the

facts stated will have to be accepted as they appear on the very

face of it, in Bhaskar Lal Sharma, it was held as under:- 36. The learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent

submitted that in their statements, Angadias have not stated

anything incriminating against the respondent and in the absence

of any material emerging from the statement of these witnesses,

there is nothing incriminating against the respondent to connect

him with the transactions of remittance of foreign exchange to

foreign companies. There is no merit in the above contention.

The Angadias are yet to be examined in the court. During the time

of trial, at the time of examining of Angadiyas, it is open to the

prosecution to confront them with the relevant materials linking

the respondent with the alleged transactions. 37. For issuance of process against the accused, it has to be

seen only whether there is sufficient ground for proceeding against

the accused. At the stage of issuance of process, the Court is not

required to weigh the evidentiary value of the materials on record.

The Court must apply its mind to the allegations in the charge

sheet and the evidence produced and satisfy itself that there is

sufficient ground to proceed against the accused. The Court is not

to examine the merits and demerits of the case and not to

determine the adequacy of the evidence for holding the accused

guilty. The Court is also not required to embark upon the possible

defences. Likewise, ‘possible defences’ need not be taken into

consideration at the time of issuing process unless there is an ex-

facie defence such as a legal bar or if in law the accused is not 29 liable. [ Vide Nupur Talwar v. Central Bureau of Investigation

and another (2012) 11 SCC 465] 38. The learned Single Judge observed that “there is nothing in

the supplementary charge sheets to even remotely suggest any

role of the petitioner in setting up of any of the foreign companies

who were recipient of the amounts fraudulently sent abroad or any

Indian Entity which fraudulently remitted the amounts out of India

………. or of having received the remitted amount out of India

directly or indirectly. The learned Single Judge was not right in

saying that there was no material that the respondent has played

any role in the conspiracy in making the black money in cash into

white and fraudulently inducing the banks based on fake bills of

entry and remitting the amount in foreign exchange to foreign

banks based in Hong Kong and Dubai. The learned Single Judge

erred in brushing aside the materials produced by the prosecution

which prima-facie indicate the role of the respondent that he used

to collect the money from the remitters and respondent and his

person Amit @ Bilal Haroon Gilani sending it through Angadiya

Firms to Prafulbhai Patel who in turn deposited the same through

RTGS in the accounts of the companies operated by Madan Lal Jain

which money was transferred abroad by foreign exchange (vide

chart supra). We deem it appropriate to refer to some of the

evidence and other materials produced by the prosecution along

with the charge sheet. 39. Jafar Mohammad-brother of the respondent admitted that

Rs.3,00,00,000/- were deposited in his account on the instructions

of the respondent-accused from the company controlled by

accused-Madanlal Jain. On being asked about the entry of

Rs.1,00,00,000/- on 06.01.2014 and Rs.2,00,00,000/- on

31.01.2014 in his current account from the account of M/s Natural

Trading Company (company of accused Madanlal Jain), Jafar

Mohammed stated that in January, 2014 he needed some money

in the share business and therefore, he spoke to the respondent-

Afroz Mohammad Hasanfatta about getting him loan and so, the

amount was credited in his account through RTGS. He stated that

he does not know about the ownership of M/s Natural Trading

Company and also does not know Madanlal Jain. The question

whether Jafar Mohammad, brother of respondent-accused received

money as a genuine loan transaction or whether it was a part of

the commission, could be examined only at the stage of trial when

the parties adduced oral or documentary evidence. 40. That apart, in the statement dated 18.10.2014, Samir Jiker

Godil, Manager of Nile Industries/proprietorship of respondent,

stated that he obtained an unsecured loan of Rs.1,15,00,000/-

from the respondent-Afroz in February, 2014 and the said amount

was credited in the account of his wife with Union Bank of India

from the bank account of Nile Trading Corporation. He stated that

he took the said amount from the respondent to do business in 31 share market. He stated that the said amount was given to him by

crediting the same in the bank account of his wife Foziya Samir

Godil from the bank account of M/s Nile Trading Corporation. He

stated that out of the said amount, he repaid Rs.91,00,000/- by

depositing the same in the bank account of two persons as per say

of respondent from the aforementioned bank account of his wife

through RTGS. He stated that he does not know in whose account

the said amount was deposited. 41. Further, a perusal of bank statement of the respondent for

the period 01.03.2014 to 31.03.2014 shows four transactions

dated 06.03.2014 and 07.03.2014 for a total amount of

Rs.6,30,00,000/- in the account of respondent from M/s Natural

Trading Company. Further, by perusal of the bank statement of

M/s Nile Trading Corporation, the proprietorship concern of

respondent, for the period 01.10.2013 to 30.11.2014 shows

transactions to the tune of approximately Rs.7,00,00,000/- in the

account of the firm from one M/s Gangeshwar Mercantile Private

Limited which is a business concern of accused Madanlal Jain. 42. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel appearing for the

respondent submitted that the two companies namely M/s Natural

Trading Corporation and Gangeshwar Mercantile Pvt. Ltd. who had

remitted an amount of Rs.16,00,00,000/- in the accounts of the

respondent and his brother which amount is stated to be as

‘commission’, have not been arraigned as accused nor its 32 Director/partner Shri Pukhraj Anandmal Mutha has been shown as

accused. This contention does not merit acceptance. Only during

the time of trial, trail of money from the above two companies to

the account of the respondent could be established. 43. The learned counsel for the State submitted that there is a

clear evidence of flow back of Rs.16,00,00,000/- to the account of

respondent as commission from the company controlled by

Madanlal Jain which has not been explained. Insofar as the receipt

of over Rs.16,00,00,000/- “as commission” by the respondent-

accused for his role in the scam, the learned Single Judge

discarded the same on the erroneous ground that “there is no

mens-rea or culpable knowledge on the part of the accused”.

Whether the accused-respondent had mens-rea or not is not to be

established at the stage of issuance of summons. In Bholu Ram

v. State of Punjab and Another (2008) 9 SCC 140, this Court

held that mens rea can only be decided at the time of trial and not

at the stage of issuing summons. 44. Having received a huge amount of Rs.16,00,00,000/-, it is for

the accused to establish his defence plea at the time of trial that

the money is by way of receipt in the normal course of his

business dealings. The bank statement produced by the

prosecution showing the deposit of amount in the account of

respondent-accused and M/s Nile Trading Corporation and receipt

of the amount by the respondent’s brother are the prima facie 33 materials showing that there are sufficient grounds for proceeding

against the accused. The evidence and materials so produced by

the prosecution cannot be brushed aside on the possible defence

which the respondent is taking that such credits are in the regular

course of his business dealings. 45. The learned senior counsel for the respondent contended

that the receipt of over Rs.16,00,00,000/- by the respondent-

accused was “business income from the sale of diamonds”.

Learned counsel for the appellant-State submitted that no such

explanation has ever been offered by the respondent in the

revision petition or before the learned Single Judge and this

argument has been made across the Bar. The correctness of the

defence plea that the money received by the respondent in the

bank account of M/s Nile Trading Corporation (proprietorship of

respondent-accused) and by his brother-Jafar Mohammad is to

show that the said amount has been received in the regular course

of business transaction. The respondent would also have to show

that he has declared this receipt as “business income” in his

income tax return for the relevant year. 46. Additionally, the prosecution also relies upon Call Detail

Records to show that the respondent was in contact with the

accused Madanlal Jain, witness Praful Patel and accused Amit @

Bilal Haroon Gilani during the period when these alleged instances

of hawala took place. 47. The learned Single Judge in the impugned order extensively

extracted statement of the witnesses viz. Jafar Mohammed,

brother of respondent, Samir Jiker Gohil, Manager of Nile Industries

and other witnesses of Angadias Firms, concluded that none of the

statements allege anything incriminating against the respondent.

The learned Single Judge further observed that “neither the

angadiyas nor the cheque discounters who admittedly were

recipients of huge cash payments for further transfer to other

companies, alleged any dealing or transaction with the petitioner,

much less any incriminating transaction”. There was huge flow of

money into the account of the respondent and Nile Trading

Corporation and also to his brother Jafar Mohammed. During trial,

it is for the prosecution to show how these money transactions are

linked to establish that the respondent was collecting money from

remitters and transmitting the same to Prafulbhai Patel through

Angadias. At the stage of issue of process, the court is not

required to go into the merits of the evidence collected and

examine whether they are incriminating the accused or not. 48. The learned Single Judge extracted the statement of

Angadias in extenso and observed that the representatives of S.

Babulal Angadia and P. Umeshchandra whose names are

appearing in the statements of Prafulbhai Patel also did not reveal

any such transaction with the respondent herein. Likewise, the

learned Single Judge also referred to the banking transactions and 35 observed that the bank statements of the respondent and his

brother do not show commission of any offence lodged against the

respondent even on prima facie basis. As discussed earlier, at the

stage of issuance of process, sufficiency of evidence or otherwise

is not to be seen. Meticulous consideration of the statement of

witnesses and other materials produced is unfolded. The above

materials produced by the prosecution ought not to have been

brushed aside by the learned Single Judge to quash the order of

issuance of summons to the respondent-accused. As to whether

these evidence are sufficient to sustain the conviction of the

respondent-accused or whether he has a plausible defence or

explanation is the matter to be considered at the stage of trial.

The learned Single Judge ought not to have weighed the merits of

the case at the initial stage of issuance of summons to the

accused. 49. While hearing revision under Section 397 Cr.P.C., the High

Court does not sit as an appellate court and will not reappreciate

the evidence unless the judgment of the lower court suffers from

perversity. Based on the charge sheet and the materials produced

thereon when the Magistrate satisfied that there are sufficient

grounds for proceeding, the learned Single Judge was not justified

in examining the merits and demerits of the case and substitute its

own view. When the satisfaction of the Magistrate was based on

the charge sheet and the materials placed before him, the 36 satisfaction cannot be said to be erroneous or perverse and the

satisfaction ought not to have been interfered with. 50. As discussed earlier, while taking cognizance of an offence

based upon a police report, it is the satisfaction of the Magistrate

that there is sufficient ground to proceed against the accused. As

discussed earlier, along with the second supplementary charge

sheet, number of materials like statement of witnesses, Bank

statement of the respondent-accused and his company Nile Trading

Corporation and other Bank Statement, Call Detail Records and

other materials were placed. Upon consideration of the second

supplementary charge sheet and the materials placed thereon, the

Magistrate satisfied himself that there is sufficient ground to

proceed against the respondent and issued summons. The learned

Single Judge, in our considered view, erred in interfering with the

order of the Magistrate in exercise of revisional jurisdiction. 51. In our view, the learned Single Judge ought not to have gone

into the merits of the matter when the matter is in nascent stage.

When the prosecution relies upon the materials, strict standard of

proof is not to be applied at the stage of issuance of summons nor

to examine the probable defence which the accused may take. All

that the court is required to do is to satisfy itself as to whether

there are sufficient grounds for proceeding. The learned Single

Judge committed a serious error in going into the merits and 37 demerits of the case and the impugned order is liable to be set

aside. 52. In the result, the impugned order passed by the High Court

of Gujarat in Criminal Revision No.264 of 2017 dated 03.05.2017 is

set aside and this appeal is allowed. The order of the Magistrate

taking cognizance of the second supplementary charge sheet

dated 15.11.2014 in Criminal Case No.62851 of 2014 for the

offences punishable under Sections 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 477A and 120B IPC and issue of process to the respondent-accused shall

stand restored. The respondent-accused is directed to appear

before the trial court on 27.02.2019 and the trial court shall

proceed with the matter in accordance with law. ……………………….J.
 [R. BANUMATHI]

 ...………………………..J.
 [INDIRA BANERJEE]
New Delhi; February 05, 2019 38