1. This is an application for injunction in a defamation action
 brought by the National Stock Exchange ("NSE"), one of the two
 premier Stock Exchanges of this country. The NSE complains that
 

 an article published on 19th June 2015 by Defendants Nos. 2 and 3,
 

 Ms. Sucheta Dalal and Mr. Debashish Basu, on their online news
 and analysis journal or website moneylife.in, is per se defamatory.
 Ms. Dalal is the Managing Editor of Moneylife; Mr. Basu is its

 Executive Editor. Their article accuses the NSE of actively
 permitting, in circumstances that I will describe in somewhat
 greater detail shortly, illicit trading advantages being afforded to a

 select few using high-end technology. Much of what is alleged is
 very technical indeed, but the NSE's case as presented by Dr.
 Tulzapurkar is that the assertions made by Ms. Dalal and Mr. Basu,
 even allowing for the fact that they were based on an anonymous
 letter dated 14th January 2015 addressed to the Securities &
 Exchange Board of India ("SEBI") with a copy to Ms. Dalal, are in

 2 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 themselves reckless and defamatory of the NSE. The article clearly
 alleges illegality and criminality in the actions of the NSE. It goes

 
 further and accuses the NSE of being "like a fortress" and

 
 unwilling to part with any information or to provide any
 clarification. 2. On 14th January 2015 an anonymous letter in hard copy was
 sent to Mr. B.K. Gupta, the Deputy General Manager of the
 Market Regulation Department of SEBI.1 This document was

 
 copied to Ms. Dalal. It is a most technical eight page letter and it
 appears to detail at very considerable length what it describes as the
 
 illegality or impropriety in "high-frequency trades" ("HFT") or
 algorithmic trades ("algo trades") facilitated by NSE's allowing
 
 co-location of its servers. I do not claim to be able to understand
 every single one of the financial and technical details that are set
 out in this anonymous letter, but I think that is of little moment at
 

 this interim stage. On 19th June 2015, several months after the
 

 anonymous letter, appeared the article on moneylife.in of which the
 NSE now complains. 3. This article contained the following statements that the NSE
 says constitute defamation. These are reproduced from paragraphs
 11, 16 and 18 of the plaint. [Emphasis supplied]

 16(i) "For several months, I shared the letter with key
 market-players and investigators to find out more; but
 the NSE operates like a fortress and outsiders had no
 details." (ii) "Nobody we spoke to was surprised to know that
 the system was manipulated and each one speculated
 about the likely beneficiaries; but no proof was
 forthcoming." (iii) "The reason for this is best explained on the
 jacket of Michael Lewis's book Flash Boys. It says" 4 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 inside black boxes in heavily guarded buildings. Even
 the experts entrusted with your money don't know what

 
 is happening and those who do aren't about to tell -
 because they are making a killing." (iv) These high-frequency trades contributed to the
 huge froth of trading volumes on the Exchange. Since
 top management salaries at the NSE are linked to the

 
 turnover and profit generated by the Exchange, there
 may have been a reluctance to upset the applecart. The
 NSE is unique in having had the same senior
 management for the entire 20+ years of its existence." 18(i) "... We expected the whistle-blower's letter to (ii)
 
 trigger, at least, an investigation"... (iv) Soon, SEBI and RBI dutifully responded to the
 finance ministry's direction. The Financial Stability

 Report (FSR) released in June suddenly identified algo
 trading as an area of concern." (v) "Immediately thereafter, the Business Standard
 and other papers reported that SEBI was considering
 steps to slow down the pace of trading through
 measures such as a minimum resting time for orders

 5 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 before execution and rendomising the time priority of
 orders that an Exchange receives." 4. A second article followed on 8th July 2015.2 The combined

 
 effect of this, according to Dr. Tulzapurkar, is that the articles tend
 to lead "the lay reader" to conclude to the detriment of the NSE
 that firstly it is because of the articles that regulators such as the

 
 Reserve Bank of India ("RBI") and SEBI have commenced
 investigations; second, that there are serious wrongdoings on the
 part of the NSE; and third, that the NSE itself is complicit in

 
 permitting these illegal HFTs or algo trades. 5.
 
 Dr Tulzapurkar submits that these allegations are entirely
 false. He points to paragraph 18A of the plaint, one that was added
 
 by an amendment permitted on 24th July 2015, after the suit was
 filed and on the day the Notice of Motion was first moved for ad-
 interim reliefs. 6. To understand that paragraph and what it seeks to portray, I
 think some background to what is being alleged is necessary. The
 case presented by the Defendants in their articles, at least as I

 understand it, is thus. The NSE, as indeed many other bourses,
 both here and abroad, routinely permit what is called co-location.
 Typically, a co-location centre (often called a 'colo') is a data centre

 that rents equipment, space, and bandwidth to retail subscribers.
 This allows for leveraging economies of scale, more advanced
 infrastructure, lower latency (lag times), upgraded system security
 and so on. In the present variant, I understand the complaint in the
 anonymous letter to mean that the NSE permitted, for a significant 2 Plaint, pp. 52 to 54. 6 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 rental, premium co-location access. This is allowed at a very high
 premium to persons or entities engaged in high volume and high

 
 value transactions. It is, in my understanding of it, intended to be

 
 nothing more than a convenience.3 Where the co-location server is
 allowed to be installed at a subscriber's or renter's premises, this is,
 if I might be permitted a parallel, more or less like arranging to have

 
 a dedicated branch of a bank in one's own building if one is on a
 daily basis engaged in a large number of high value banking
 transactions. The system allows the users at these locations quick

 
 and reasonably disruption-free access to the servers. This is useful
 in an age when the trades are no longer done manually but are all
 
 done digitally and online. 7. Algo trades are the product of very high end mathematical
 modelling. These are models devised specifically to anticipate the
 most microscopic changes in markets and to respond to those
 

 changes in a matter of seconds. This is done not through any
 

 human intervention, an aspect that is totally eliminated, but in a
 wholly automated fashion by computer-generated or triggered
 transactions. In high value transactions the number of such

 transactions that can be put through is very considerable indeed. A
 most rudimentary example might be this: an 'algo' is designed to
 detect the most minute changes in stock prices and to respond
 accordingly. In anticipation of a rise in a particular stock's value,

 say, with no manual intervention but by a computer program
 responding to the data input, a series of purchases are triggered
 made at a lower value so that when the markets later reach the
 higher level, a considerable profit is then, equally automatically, 3 Co-location service offerings and details are available on the NSE
 website. 7 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 generated and booked. The same can also operate in reverse to
 minimise a potential loss. Of course, these are utterly basic

 
 examples. I imagine the actual models are far more sophisticated

 
 and complicated, for use in complex scenarios for highly evolved
 financial and security transactions. The point is, however, that
 these trades are automatic and computer-generated, and they

 
 happen at very high speed and in high volumes. 8. The anonymous letter sent to SEBI and Ms. Dalal is a

 
 lengthy dissertation on not only the evolution of online trading at
 the NSE but also the very many pitfalls encountered in the last five
 
 years or so. It points to the initial deployment of relatively low-
 bandwidth leased lines to multicast price streams and this is said to
 
 have been done using a technology by then already deprecated so
 that the information dissemination was sequential, thus allowing
 the person or persons who first received the data to act on it well
 

 before others downstream received the data. In the intial days,
 

 traders were allowed to deploy the NSE's application programming
 interfaces or APIs to write their own programs. The system, so the
 anonymous letter seems to say, was not designed for high traffic

 volumes; and, given the sequential (as opposed to simultaneous)
 dissemination of data (as might be achieved using the User
 Datagram Protocol or UDP, for instance, as other exchanges even
 then did), often meant that the last in line to be connected to the

 data stream was often well behind the person who connected first.
 The NSE then apparently had limited servers with unbalanced
 loads, and this in turn generated what is called a latency (the time
 required for transmission of data packets) for the last user. At the
 time, this gave the first mover (or connector), who accessed a

 8 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 server then least loaded with traffic, the fastest access; those
 downstream had to deal with increasingly burdened servers as more

 
 and more persons connected, with a corresponding increase in

 
 latency. Switching on servers ahead of time allowed some to gain an
 advantage and a priority. To mitigate this, the NSE took steps to
 balance its server loads and to more evenly distribute them. Technically, the letter suggests, this should have been enough. But
 (and this appears to be the nub of it) some started connecting to
 backup real-time servers with nil traffic, even though these were to

 
 be used only in emergencies, thus enabling quicker access to market
 data; and the NSE's co-location services facilitated this early-bird
 
 data or information receipt. 9. It is in this scenario that we have to assess the concern that
 seems to have been expressed by the Defendants in their articles.
 They say that entities permitted co-location access gained a small
 

 and perhaps infinitesimal time advantage in receiving advance
 

 market information. This allowed a select handful to, as the
 Defendants put it, 'front-run' the rest of the market. In other
 words, knowing that a stock was likely to move, say, in a particular

 direction, algo trades would be triggered to take advantage of that
 advance information long before other individual traders lacking the
 advantage of co-location could capitalize or move on that
 information. The result is not as negligible, the Defendants say, as

 might appear. There is, firstly, some question of whether these algo
 trades worked to inject liquidity into the market or whether they
 created distortions in the real underlying value of the stocks in
 question. The point, they seem to suggest, is that the select handful
 got a very considerable advantage simply because they received

 9 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 information even a few seconds or milliseconds ahead of the rest of
 the market. 10. This, the NSE now says, is entirely impossible. Paragraph
 18A of the plaint reads thus: 11. This paragraph forms the centre of NSE's case in
 

 defamation. For, as Dr. Tulzapurkar puts it, if it is just not possible
 that the time lag is sufficient for any person to give any such
 advantage, then there is no question of there being the slightest

 element of truth in what the Defendants alleged. There is also then
 no question that their articles are per se defamatory. To the extent
 that their articles are contradicted by paragraph 18A of the plaint,
 the articles cannot be fair comment and no qualified privilege

 attaches to them. Any such privilege, Dr. Tulzapurkar submits,
 must be "relevant to the occasion". It cannot be absolute and there
 is no absolute privilege that attaches to any such article. 10 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC 12. To begin with, I believe this paragraph is yet another attempt
 at misdirection. Curiously, the anonymous letter seems to presage

 
 or anticipate precisely such a response. The last paragraph on page

 
 4 of the letter4 deals exactly with these fractional time frames and in
 terms alleges that 50 micro-seconds are all it takes to effect the illicit
 trade. The question is also not of a person ensured a particular

 
 position in a port queue; the issue is of certain entities being among
 the early-birds to connect to the server at low-load and low-traffic
 times to ensure minimal latency and fastest data inflow. The

 
 anonymous letter specifically mentions the advantages that
 paragraph 18A tries to deny, possibly in the hope that the judicial
 
 mind can safely be presumed to be ignorant of all matters technical
 and too easily overawed by an outpouring of technical jargon. The
 
 issue is also not about ensuring a prior place but, as the letter says,
 whether it is possible to 'game the system' through a variety of
 means, including continuous server-pinging to test when the server
 

 comes online, to gain even a minute advantage. The issue is also not
 about an absolute advantage, but rather one of degree, i.e., of
 

 gaining an advantage ahead of the rest of the market. Pages 5 and 6
 of the letter deal with an earlier point in time. Pages 6 and 7

 however make a very direct reference to a new evolution in the
 process of 'gaming the system', and that is by connecting to the
 backup servers, ones that had zero load and much improved latency.
 I note that paragraph 18A does not even begin to address the very

 many technical questions pointedly raised in the letter and to which
 Ms. Dalal drew the NSE's attention. Instead, that paragraph
 cherry-picks one isolated facet that possibly relates to an earlier
 point in the history of the NSE's systems automation and presents 4 Motion paperbook, p. 84

 11 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 that as a 'complete' answer. Indeed it is not. And this is telling: for
 at least now, after the suit was filed, the NSE had the undeniable

 
 opportunity to deal with the technical aspects. It has chosen not to

 
 do so, and the reasons that suggest themselves are, in my
 estimation, and I expect in the estimation of any rational-minded
 person who went through this carefully, precisely those that Ms.

 
 Dalal outlined in her articles. It is certainly not insignificant that the
 letter in question outlines a typical instance with figures of how
 these advantages can be obtained. 13. Mr. Tulzapurkar first relies on a very old decision of a Single
 
 Judge of this Court in Mitha Rustomji Murzban v. Nusserwanji
 Nowroji Engineer.5 That was also an action in damages, partly in libel
 
 and partly in slander. It related to an article in a weekly journal in
 Gujarati. Wadia J held that even if there is criticism in the press it
 must be fair and while it may not be necessary to prove malice by
 

 the defendant, the test must be this: whether any reasonable
 

 person, however prejudiced or however strong of opinion, could say
 that the work in question was a fair comment. Even allowing
 latitude for personal opinion and individual prejudice, the test must

 be that of a reasonable, and I would suggest in this particular case, a
 knowledgeable person, in such matters. Mere boldness or strength
 of expression, or even exaggeration does not per se make a comment
 unfair. If a reasonable person would not have been moved to draw

 the conclusions or make the statements that the Defendants have
 made, then the NSE must succeed. This test applies to every
 comment including an imputation as to character, conduct or
 professional behaviour. Newspapers are no exception. They have no 5 AIR 1941 Bom 278

 12 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 special right or privilege in civil law, and I am mindful of the fact
 that while the Defendants have attempted to place this in the

 
 context of a fundamental right to freedom of expression and

 
 Constitutional guarantees, that is not my direct remit in a civil suit,
 though Courts seem to have often juxtaposed the two concerns. If
 the imputation or the conclusion remains unwarranted by the facts,

 
 it cannot be fair comment. The Defendants must show, to claim a
 qualified privilege, that they had some duty public or private, legal,
 moral or social to their intended audience. They must show they

 
 had a duty to convey the information. They must also show that the
 information that they conveyed was published in the context of this
 
 moral, social or other duty, public or private, and that it was
 relevant or pertinent to that duty and not completely alien to it. If
 
 there is no discernible nexus between what is stated and what is
 intended or what is now claimed to have been intended, the action
 must succeed. This is true whether or not the target audience is a
 

 select niche audience or the public at large. Dr. Tulzapurkar also
 refers to a Division Bench decision of the Calcutta High Court in
 

 Tushar Kanti Ghose v Bina Bhowmick6 to much the same effect and
 most importantly saying that fair comment is not the private

 preserve of newspapers but is a right of other citizens and persons
 in the country. 14. In Shree Maheshwar Hydel Power Corporation Ltd. v Chitroopa

 Palit & Anr.,7 a learned Single Judge of this Court 8 was concerned
 with an expression said to be defamatory and contained in a press
 note issued in some newspapers. This related to the Narmada River 6 57 CWN 378 7 2004 Vol. 106(1) Bom.L.R. 186 8 S. Radhakrishnan J, as he then was

 13 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 Valley Project. The relevant statement is set out in paragraph 5 of
 the report. The Court accepted the argument that unlike English

 
 law on the subject, where a mere plea of justification would be

 
 sufficient to dislodge the interim application, in India, the
 defendants must also produce sufficient material supporting their
 contentions and the Court is certainly entitled to scrutinize these. Should substance be found in this material then the plea of
 justification in defence is proper. Much case law was cited in this
 regard before the Court, which held that the article complained of

 
 may be justified in the public interest if it be shown that the
 defendants had taken every reasonable precaution of ascertaining
 
 the truth. The defendants must therefore show on material
 available that a reasonable person could come to the conclusion that
 
 the comments made and complained of were not mala fide. I am not
 here concerned of course with the tone of the comments but only
 with an examination of whether the comments made by the
 

 Defendants before me today can be said to be defematory as Dr.
 Tulzapurkar insists they are. 15. Ms. Dalal and Mr. Basu appeared in person. They have each

 presented their written submissions. I have taken these on record
 and permitted them to read them in Court. They contain much that
 is, perhaps understandably, generalized and not strictly speaking in
 the nature of legal submissions. I will refer to only such portions as

 are necessary for our purposes. 16. The single most important factor that strikes me in this
 particular case, quite apart from the technical aspects of it, is the
 enormous time gap between the receipt of the anonymous letter in

 14 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 January 2015 and the publication of the first article on 19th June
 2015. What is it that Ms. Dalal and Mr. Basu did in that time? Did

 
 they merely sit silent for all those months and come out with the

 
 article without any further acts? The plaint is curiously silent,
 though it could not possibly have been. Ms. Dalal in her note and in
 her Affidavit in Reply points out that after she received the

 
 anonymous letter she did make enquiries with various regulators,
 Stock Exchanges, and traders. She does not provide details of these.
 Dr. Tulzapurkar says that this is the information that ought to have

 
 been disclosed. Maybe so. However, there is other material that Ms.
 Dalal has disclosed but the Plaintiffs have not though, in my view,
 
 they were obliged to do so. This is the fact that on 11th June 2015,
 well before the article appeared, Ms. Dalal emailed the Chairman of
 
 SEBI with a copy to the two persons at the helm of the NSE's
 affairs, Mr. Ravi Narayan and Ms. Chitra Ramakrishan, persons
 who have been in those positions for a very long time indeed and
 

 who can reasonably be supposed to be au courant with the NSE's
 dealings, processes and affairs, seeking their response to the
 

 anonymous letter, with a copy of it. 9 There was no answer. Nothing
 in the nature of what is stated now in paragraph 18A was returned

 to Ms. Dalal. She sent a reminder a few days later on 15th June
 2015.10 This too met with silence. The next day she sent an SMS to
 Mr. Ravi Narayan and Ms. Chitra Ramakrishan asking specifically
 whether the NSE had anything to say on these emails. 11 Again: no

 response. There are, thus, three distinct communications from Ms.
 Dalal to the two persons at the NSE best placed to answer the
 questions she raised. There is not even a whisper of these 9 Motion paperbook, p. 89 10 Motion paperbook, p. 90 11 Motion paperbook, p. 91

 15 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 communications in the plaint. Even today, despite the amendment,
 there is no explanation as to why these two persons chose not to

 
 respond to Ms. Dalal. What is stated in paragraph 18A of the plaint

 
 cannot be new. It was then known to the NSE. If it is indeed a
 complete answer, it ought to have been provided. It was not; and we
 are left to speculate as to why the NSE did not think it necessary to

 
 provide the response when it was sought. 17. If the answer to this is that the NSE is not bound to respond

 
 to any and every person who writes to it, then that is not one that I
 am prepared to accept in this particular case. The reason suggests
 
 itself. It certainly stares one in the face when one considers the
 Affidavit in Reply and Ms. Dalal's undoubted and well documented
 
 track record in financial matters. She is a much-decorated and
 highly regarded journalist in financial sectors with nearly three
 decades of experience in the field. Her work and she have received
 

 recognition and are renowned. She is not, despite the quite petty- minded and churlish statements in the Affidavit in Rejoinder,
 somebody who can be said to be even remotely irresponsible, scare-
 mongering, populist or given to hyperbole. To the contrary. It is to

 her credit that in April 1992, 23 years ago this year, it was she who
 was primarily responsible for exposing what came to be known as
 the Harshad Mehta scam, one that can, I think, safely be said to
 have directly led to the introduction of a series of regulatory

 measures and protective standards that govern, interestingly
 enough, the NSE itself. She has also been a columnist of various
 newspapers and the business editor of leading financial newspapers.
 She is known to have worked closely with at least one former
 chairman of SEBI. All of this is in the public domain. It acquires

 16 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 significance only for this limited purpose: Ms. Dalal's query to Mr.
 Ravi Narayan and Ms. Chitra Ramakrishan was no idle accusation. She had then not gone to press with her article. She took the

 
 trouble firstly to make her own investigations, and then specifically
 to solicit the views of the two persons who manage and run the
 NSE. I do not believe she was duty-bound to do more. She had with

 
 her a damning letter, albeit anonymous, but one that contained a
 welter of detail that could not be denied and that, on my reading of
 it, certainly calls for a response, irrespective of the source. To decry

 
 this as the handiwork of a disgruntled individual or to belittle the
 anonymous author is, I think, in this day and age of the statutory
 
 recognition of what are called 'whistleblowers', to attempt to deny
 the undeniable. To say that there must be material from which a
 
 person may draw a conclusion is only half the story. Very often, as
 in such cases, while silence might not quite be 'consent' as Mr.
 Malcolm for the 1st Defendant would have it, it might certainly be
 

 enough to lead one to a conclusion that the addressees of this letter
 had nothing in fact to say in response at all. The only alternative to
 

 that view is again a point that Ms. Dalal makes in her articles, viz.,
 that the persons in charge at the NSE felt it beneath them to deign

 to respond to what is indubitably a very serious case made
 manifestly in the public interest. The question of paragraph 18A of
 the plaint not having received a reply on affidavit, is, I think,
 somewhat misplaced. That is not the issue. The question is why

 was this so-called answer not provided at a time when the NSE had
 a opportunity to provide it? Had that been done, and had that
 answer not been further investigated or controverted and had the
 present offending article then been published as if there was no
 such answer, the NSE might then have had a case to make. I do not

 17 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 think that it is at all possible for the NSE to try and retrofit answers
 in this fashion. Even assuming that the contents of paragraph 18A

 
 of the plaint are correct, I do not see how Ms. Dalal's articles could

 
 be said to be defamatory on account of an answer that came after
 those articles rather than being given before them when an answer
 was indeed sought. This is putting the cart very firmly before the

 
 horse. What paragraph 18A says is hardly public-domain material.
 What the NSE seems to be saying to Ms. Dalal is something like
 this: "your articles are per se defamatory because they are contrary

 
 to the information we now provide in our plaint but which we did
 not provide before you wrote your articles, though you did seek our
 
 response." There is certainly something of the cum hoc ergo propter
 hoc fallacy in this formulation and possibly even the post hoc fallacy,
 
 for temporal sequencing is integral to causality in defamation
 actions. The Plaintiffs' answer in paragraph 18A of the plaint is
 therefore far too little far too late. 18. I do not think it necessary to examine NSE's past record in
 any great detail. This is not because Dr. Tulzapurkar claims it to be
 entirely irrelevant, though he may be right to some extent, but

 because it is a needless distraction at this stage. What is not,
 however, irrelevant is a point that Mr. Basu makes in his written
 submissions, that even following the report complained of, apart
 from the NSE itself there has been a very considerable amount of

 material in the public domain that indicates that these matters at
 the NSE, i.e., specifically algo or HFT trades are being
 investigated, and this is being done at the highest possible level,
 including the chairman of SEBI. Some of this material is appended

 18 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 to the note and to the Affidavit in Reply filed by Defendants Nos. 2
 and 3.12 19. What of the "duty" that Wadia J alluded to, and what of the
 material that is required to be placed to substantiate justification?
 As a responsible journalist, one who is not some sensationalist

 
 muck-raker, Ms. Dalal certainly had and has a duty to the common
 investor, the everyday trader. That is her social and moral duty. But
 she also has a perhaps more profound ethical duty, and that is to

 
 take all possible steps to ascertain her position before she goes to
 press. Had she not sought the NSE's views, and merely accepted as
 
 gospel what the anonymous communication to her said, matters
 might be very different indeed. But she did abide by that ethical
 
 standard. She did her investigations, and she did first solicit the
 NSE's response. Had there been a response, of the nature now
 suggested, or something in that vein, I imagine she would have
 

 followed this up with further investigations and correspondence
 

 before committing herself. I do not see how it can possibly be open
 to the NSE to accuse her of a lapse in ethical and journalistic
 standards when, despite the opportunity, it chose not to respond. Was Ms. Dalal supposed to imagine and speculate what that
 response might be? I find it exceedingly odd, too, that despite
 having received these communications, the NSE does not even
 mention them in the plaint. It gives instead the impression that Ms.

 Dalal acted immediately and solely on the anonymous letter and
 rushed to print. Nothing could be further from the truth. The
 elision of that correspondence from the plaint is neither irrelevant
 nor minor. Today, once the Affidavits in Reply are in, the plaint 12 Exhibits "J" and "K" to Mr. Basu's compilation. 19 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 seems strangely like a government statistic: what it tells us is merely
 interesting; what it conceals is vital. 20. Are the articles, or any part of them, irrelevant to the
 occasion or out of context? I do not think so in the least. The
 "occasion" and the "context" are, in my understanding of the

 
 expressions, references to the purpose and intent of the articles.
 Absent a timely response (and there was not even a holding reply to
 Ms. Dalal's queries), both occasion and context presented

 
 themselves; and what followed can only be called, I think, fair
 comment precisely for want of that very response that Dr.
 
 Tulzapurkar now extols. Indeed, I would venture to suggest that the
 so-called response in paragraph 18A of the plaint is itself out of
 
 context and now irrelevant to the occasion, which is the present
 suit. In the plaint itself, a very curious picture is attempted to be
 portrayed of the NSE as an organization that is, by its own telling of
 

 it, incapable of any mistake or any wrongdoing. There are
 

 suggestions, for example, that algorithmic trading is regulated by
 circulars, that there are recommendations of technical advisory
 committees, that the financial stability report of the RBI is

 sufficient control over the operations of the NSE and that, there is,
 therefore, never a question that can be raised against the NSE. This
 is the distinct impression that one gets from a reading of the plaint
 and it seems strangely like a claim to the kind of infallibility best left

 to divinities not mortal institutions; and, as our mythology tells us,
 even our divinities have their foibles and failings. The NSE expects
 respect. That is to be earned. It is not to be torn out of the throats
 of public the NSE is meant to serve. The NSE is after all a public
 institution and it is in some sense or the other a custodian if not of

 20 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 public funds then at least of an undeniable public trust. This
 demands, I think, the most complete transparency, accountability

 
 and openness in its actions, dealing and operations. I include in this

 
 its duty to respond in a measured fashion to a question that has
 been placed in a measured fashion. It has no duty to respond to a
 wild or reckless allegation. But when a person, having made some

 
 enquiries, and herself having something of an established track
 record, makes a politely worded and pointed enquiry, not to
 respond to it seems to me either to be an example of the most

 
 egregious hubris and arrogance or, alternatively, an admission that
 there is an element of truth in what was being said. There is no
 
 third alternative. 21. In his written submissions, Mr. Basu makes this telling point: 22. Mr. Basu has also done some quite formidable legal research. The point he makes is this: that there is a material difference when
 the complainant plaintiff is a public persona or figure or institution,
 as the NSE undoubtedly is, as opposed to a private citizen. He
 cites, of course, the classic decision in New York Times Co. v 13 Exhibits "A" and "A-1" to Mr. Basu's compilation. 21 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 Sullivan,14 for its proposition that a public official cannot recover
 damages in a defamation action unless he proves with convincing

 
 clarity that the statement was made with knowledge of its falsity or

 
 with reckless disregard of whether or not it was false. This standard
 has been generally applied to public figures, but I will for the
 present, set this to one side since Sullivan seems to me to be closely

 
 hinged on the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the US
 Constitution. Mr. Basu's reliance on Reynolds v Times Newspapers
 Ltd & Ors.15 may be more appropriate. That seems to me to be a

 
 case closer to our conception of the law in the field, though the law
 it states is somewhat different, as Radhakrishnan J noticed, from
 
 our own standard. I do not think this distinction is material, given
 the facts of this case. The House of Lords in Reynolds inter alia
 
 reviewed the law from other jurisdictions, including ours: it
 referenced the Supreme Court decision in Rajagopal v State of
 Tamil Nadu,16 to much the same effect as Sullivan in relation to
 

 public officials. Now if there is no doubt, and I do not think there
 can be any doubt, that the NSE is very much a public body, then
 

 this standard must apply. In that situation, a demonstration that the
 defendant acted after a reasonable verification of the facts is

 sufficient to dislodge a claim for an injunction and a charge of
 malice. In dismissing the appeal, Nicholls LJ, upholding the
 decision of Bingham LJ of the court below, 17 did not accept that
 there should be a shift in the burden of proof, i.e., that the burden

 should be on the plaintiff for that would turn the law of qualified
 privilege on its head. It is for he who asserts privilege to prove it. 376 US 254 15 [2001] 2 AC 127 : [1999] 4 All ER 609 16 (1994) 6 SCC 632 17 Hope LJ dissenting. 22 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 But where there is a factual demonstration of sufficient steps being
 taken to ascertain the 'other side of the story' and this opportunity,

 
 when presented, has been ignored, no more can be expected if it is

 
 also shown that the article when published was not unreasonable in
 its content, tone and tenor. This decision gave us the 'Reynolds
 defence', one that can be raised where it is established that the

 
 journalist in question had a duty to pubish an allegation even if it
 ultimately turned out to be wrong. The fact that this has now been
 abolished by a subsequent statute in England is I think immaterial to

 
 this discussion.18 Nicholls LJ set out ten criteria against which
 attempts to use the Reynolds defence might be assessed. This list,
 
 reproduced below, was even then said to be not exhaustive and very
 largely fact-dependent: The Defamation Act, 2013

 23 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC 7. Whether comment was sought from the plaintiff.
 He may have information others do not possess or have

 
 not disclosed. An approach to the plaintiff will not
 always be necessary. 8. Whether the article contained the gist of the
 plaintiff's side of the story. 9. The tone of the article. A newspaper can raise

 
 queries or call for an investigation. It need not adopt
 allegations as statements of fact. 10. The circumstances of the publication, including

 
 the timing. It matters little, I think, whether or not this is taken as a lodestar for
 assessment in such cases. What is relevant is that these
 
 observations, a little over a decade and a half ago, seem oddly
 prescient today. Consider items 2, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 9. Each of these
 seems to have an echo in the case before me. That must surely be
 

 enough. Even if we do not adopt the Reynolds defence as an
 absolute standard, the decision nonetheless contains valuable
 

 guides to a judicial assessment in a case such as this. 23. With that, I return to the tests in Wadia J's decision in Mitha
 Rustomji Murzban. What would a reasonable person used to dealing
 in financial markets make of the fact that Ms. Dalal had sent this
 query and this letter to the NSE and sought its responses not once

 but three times and received no response? I believe the response of
 any such person might be substantially along the lines of what the
 Defendants said, though perhaps others may not have put it quite in
 the same fashion. That does not make the article complained of
 defamatory per se. I am unable to understand how it can be possibly

 24 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 said in these situations that the refusal to answer a legitimate query,
 one raised in the public interest where a large body of investors is

 
 concerned can be said to be defamatory. 24. As I said earlier, this is not directly a question of freedom of
 press or free speech. At the same time I do not believe that a

 
 defamation action should be allowed to be used to negate or stifle
 genuine criticism, even pointed criticism or criticism that is harshly
 worded; nor should it be allowed to choke a fair warning to the

 
 public if its interest stands threatened in some way. It is to me a
 matter of very great dismay that the NSE should have attempted
 
 this action at all. Except where it is shown that the article
 complained of is facially defamatory, that is to say, it is prima facie
 
 intended to defame or libel, an injunction will not readily be
 granted. Every criticism is not defamation. Every person criticized
 is not defamed. 25. Defamation law is not to be used to gag, to silence, to
 suppress, to subjugate. Ms. Dalal and Mr. Basu are I think correct
 generally when they say that of all the freedoms guaranteed by Article 19 of the Constitution, the freedom of speech and
 expression is arguably the most volatile, the most sensitive to
 assault, and the most precious. Its restrictions, and defamation law
 is indeed such a restriction, are to be narrowly construed. 19

 Defamation is a very thin red line. It must not be crossed, but it is
 not actionable only because it is approached, however closely. It is
 indeed protected fair comment when questions are raised in the
 public interest after due care is shown to have been taken to elicit a 19 Devidas Ramachandra Tuljapurkar v State of Maharashtra , (2015) 6 SCC
 1; Shreya Singhal v Union of India , 2015 5 SCC 1

 25 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 response. It is no answer at all to then say that no question of
 muzzling free speech arises, or to simply allege that there might

 
 indeed yet be an answer, and it matters not that that answer, or

 
 what passes for it, was not provided when an opportunity presented
 itself, and the fact of that answer being sought is so wholly
 concealed. More and more, in the name of security or reputation,

 
 we are increasingly too eager to surrender this, and its sister,
 freedoms. When we do so we forget: we forget that these freedoms
 are vital to our survival and our existence as a nation, as a people. We forget that these freedoms have not come easily. They have not
 come cheap. They were hard won after years of sacrifice and toil
 
 and struggle. They have not been given. They have been forged. We
 surrender them at our peril. To suggest, as the Plaintiffs do, that
 
 because they are a much-vaunted public body, they are, only for that
 reason, immune from all error and wrongdoing is, I think, a
 grotesque over-simplification. It is fashionable these days to deride
 

 every section of the media as mere papparazzi, chasing the
 salacious and steamy. We forget again. None of the scams and the
 

 leaks of the past two decades would have been possible without
 journalists, editors, newspapers and television news anchors. We

 have grown accustomed to mocking them. We deride their manner,
 describing them as loud, brash, obnoxious, abrasive and
 opinionated. We forget. We forget that but for them the many
 uncomfortable questions that must be asked of those in authority

 and those with the sheer muscle power of money would forever go
 unasked and unanswered. We forget that it is these persons we are
 so wont to mock who are, truly, the watchdogs of our body politic,
 the voice of our collective conscience, the sentinels on our
 ramparts. They may annoy. They may irritate. They certainly

 26 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 distress and cause discomfort. That is not only their job. It is their
 burden. Watchdogs respond to whistles and whistles need

 
 whistleblowers; and between them if they can ask what others have

 
 not dared, if they can, if I may be permitted this, boldly go where
 none have gone before; if they can, as they say, rattle a few cages,
 then that is all to the good. Neither of our principal stock exchanges

 
 are strangers to scandal; no matter what the NSE may think of
 itself, and even if Dr. Tulzapurkar insists that the past is the past
 and irrelevant today, public memory is not that short. The scams

 
 that beleaguered our exchanges in the past, and those that continue
 to occupy the time of this Court have at least in part come to light
 
 because of persons like Ms. Dalal and her fellow travellers. If
 regulatory agencies have been compelled to make changes, and if
 
 our own Supreme Court has felt it necessary to step in with drastic
 orders, it is because every oversight process has either failed or
 been subverted. The Plaintiffs are in error when they describe Ms.
 

 Dalal as some out-of-control lone wolf. The nation may or may not
 want to know; Ms. Dalal does. So do her readers. And, as it
 

 happens, so do I. She is certainly entitled to ask, to question, to
 doubt and to draw legitimate conclusions. 26. Today, all our institutions face the crisis of dwindling public
 confidence. Neither the NSE nor the judiciary are exceptions to
 this. It presents a very real dilemma, for the existence of our

 institutions is posited on that very public confidence and faith and
 its continuance. The challenge is, I think, in finding legitimate
 methods of restoring that public trust, that balance. Hence the cries
 for transparency and accountability everywhere; and I see no reason
 why the NSE should be any exception to this. Quelling dissent and

 27 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 doubt by strong-arming seems to me a decidedly odd way of going
 about restoring that public faith. It is not a move that, from a public

 
 institution, readily commends itself. For public bodies and figures, I

 
 would suggest that the legal standard is set higher to demonstrated
 actual malice and a wanton and reckless embracing of falsehood
 though countered at the first available opportunity. I do not think it

 
 is reasonable to propose a legal standard of utter faultlessness in
 reportage or public comment in relation to such bodies or persons.
 If there is indeed a factual error, can it be said to have been made in

 
 good faith, and in a reasonable belief that it was true? The 'actual
 malice' standard seems to me to suggest that one or both of these
 
 must be shown: intentional falsehood, or a reckless failure to
 attempt the verification that a reasonable person would. In this
 
 case, I do not think that the Plaintiffs have met that standard, or
 demonstrated either intentional falsehood or a failure to attempt a
 verification. The burden of proof in claiming the qualified privilege
 

 that attaches to fair comment can safely be said to have been
 discharged. 27. As a result, there is no prima facie case made here at all, nor is

 there any question of balance of convenience or any sort of
 prejudice being caused to the Plaintiffs if the injunction sought is
 declined. I will not grant the injunction sought. The Notice of
 Motion is dismissed. The previous ad-interim order is vacated. 28. There remains the question of costs. Looking to the material
 that has been published, and the manner in which this action has
 been brought, I have very little doubt in my mind that this is a
 matter that cries out for the award of costs. Not only is this

 28 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 necessary because the NSE is what it says it is, but if it is truly an
 organization or an institution that acts in the public interest then

 
 this must be demonstrated. The suit and the NSE's conduct seem

 
 to me attempts at deflection and evasion. I also believe this entire
 action to be a gross abuse of the process of this Court. The NSE
 seems to have taken it more or less for granted that our Courts are

 
 too easily cowed by self-congratulatory assertions and overblown
 claims of rectitude to even consider refusing their claim. This is an
 approach that must be deprecated, and there is only one way to do

 
 that when dealing with an institution like the NSE. I intend to
 award costs in two parts. I am aware that as a matter of law, the
 
 second of these is one that is normally not done and is perhaps even
 frowned on. There are, however, in my view exceptional
 
 circumstances in which an action that is entirely and deliberately
 mala fide in its intent ought to receive an award of costs, if nothing
 else then at least as a matter of conveying to such a Plaintiff that
 

 Courts do not view these matters lightly. To any protest that an
 award of costs is unjustified because these costs represent 'public
 

 funds', the answer is simply that so do the considerable legal costs
 and court fees incurred by the NSE. Our Courts are not to be

 treated as playgrounds for imagined and imaginary slights for those
 who command considerable resources. 29. There will be an order of costs in the amount of Rs. 1.5 lakhs

 each in favour of Ms. Dalal and Ms. Basu separately. In addition,
 the Plaintiff will pay an amount of Rs. 47 lakhs in punitive and
 exemplary costs payable not to the Defendants but to public causes,
 viz., in equal parts to the Tata Memorial Hospital and the Masina
 Hospital, it being made clear that these amounts are to be used only

 29 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 ::: 904-NMS-1220-15-F4.DOC

 for the free treatment of the indigent. These amounts will be paid
 within a period of two weeks from today. 30. The application for stay is refused. (G. S. PATEL, J.)

 CERTIFICATE
 "Certified to be a true and correct copy of the original signed Judgment/Order." 30 of 30 ::: Uploaded on - 10/09/2015 ::: Downloaded on - 10/09/2015 16:34:02 :::