IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
 KOLKATA BENCH "SMC" KOLKATA

 Before Shri S.S, Godara, Judicial Member ITA No.1918/Kol/2018 Assessment Year:2014-15

 Smt. Sangita Jhunjhunwala, बनाम / Income Tax Officer,
 77/79 Sri Arobinda Road, V/s . Ward-47(2), 3, Govt. These five assessees have filed their respective appeals for assessment year
2014-15 against the Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals)-14-10, Kolkata's separate
order(s) dated 21.06.2018, 29.06.2018 & 12.07.2018 passed in case No(s)
104/CIT(A)/14/Ward-47(2)/2016-17,105/CIT(A)-14/Ward-47(2)/2016-17/171/CIT(A) -14/Ward-48(4)/2016-17, 408/CIT(A)-10/Ward-36(3)/14-15 & 398/CIT(A)-10/Ward-
34(2) 2014-15/2016-17/Kol affirming the Assessing Officer's identical action treating
their Long Term Capital Gains of ₹9,40,715/-, ₹9,37,290/-, ₹9,12,979/-, ₹9,89,150/- &
₹9,15,209/-; respectively to be unexplained cash credit u/s 68; involving proceedings u/s. 143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961; in short 'the Act'. Heard all the assessees as well as the department reiterating their respective
 stands against and in support of the impugned unexplained cash credits
 addition(s). 2. It emerges at the outset that all these assessees have claimed to have derived
LTCG from sale of shares held in M/s Unno Industries Ltd. (after amalgamation) in
the relevant previous year to be exempt u/s 10(38) of the Act. The CIT(A)'s identical
 ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 3

discussion in all these cases affirms Assessing Officer's action treating the same to be
unexplained cash credits u/s 68 of the Act as follows:- The appellant submitted that the resultant LTCG (Long Term Capital Gains) flowing out of
 the impugned transaction was exempt under section 10(38) of the IT Act. The AD observes
 that the appellant does not show substantial trading activity or investment in shares of listed
 companies. The appellant has earned income- under the head other sources' only during the
 relevant year besides impugned long-term capital gains. The AO further notes that in the
 absence of such expertise and experience, the move to acquire the shares of M/s Baviscon
 Vincom Pvt. Ltd.(since merged with M/s Unno Industries Ltd.) was a predetermined move
 which had the sole aim to bring back unaccounted money. He further observes that the
 purchase of shares, made when the company had no proven financial results, was an indicator
 to the events to be occurring in the future. He infers that in spite of being a novice in share
 market and there being no substantial transactions in the earlier years and subsequent years,
 the appellant's decision to purchase the shares, when the financial results of M/s Baviscon
 Vincom Ltd. were not splendid with no chance of any lucrative gains at the stage of purchase
 of its shares, was a predetermined action on the part of the appellant leading to the objective
 to acquire LTCG by way of dubious methods. He further infers that this predetermined action
 with specific intention was one of the circumstantial evidence leading to the conclusion that
 LTCG was not a genuine one. 5.1.1. Considering the financials and fundamentals of the company M/s Unno Industries Ltd.,
 in the context of no significant corporate announcements or any big orders of purchase, the
 AO found the price movements of the scrip M/s Unno Industries Ltd. quite abnormal
 compared to the rise of the index i.e. BSE Sensex during the corresponding period. Add to
 this, the learned AO analysed the information received from the investigation wing of the
 Department. 5.1.2. The AO further analysed the statement of one Shrl Anil Kumar Khemka deposed before
 the Authorised Officer in which the former gave details of the Penny Stocks which were used
 for facilitating pre-arranged bogus LTCG/STCL (Short Term Capital Loss) along with 'jama-
 kharchi' clients. He notes that M/s Unno Industries Ltd. was one such Penny stock which was
 used for such purposes as admitted by the above referred deponent. 5 1.3. Thus, considering all the facts and circumstances, the AO reached the conclusion that
 everything I.e., from purchase of stock to receiving of cheque for its sale was done in a
 systematic and organised manner to give it a real and legal colour by a group of persons
 (being the operators) on receipt of cash from the appellant. He, therefore, on consideration of
 the circumstantial evidences, natural human conduct and preponderance of probabilities
 reached a conclusion that the apparent in this case was not real and that these financial
 transactions were no real but sham ones and the entire edifice was a colourable device used to
 evade tax. In view the fact that the appellant failed to prove the source of the credit, and
 genuineness of the credit of the entire sum received in the garb of alleged capital gains, the
 AO proceeded to add the entire-sum received of rupees 9,40,715 as unexplained cash credit
 under section 68 of the IT Act. 5.1.4. During the appellate proceedings, the appellant submitted written submissions dated
 22.02.2018 and 07.05.2018. The appellant primarily contends that as the purchase of the
 ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 4

 impugned shares have been effected by payment of cheque .through banking transaction and
 as the sales are corroborated by contract notes, the AO was legally not justified in treating the
 transaction as a sham transaction. It is therefore, contended that the impugned LTCG flowing
 out from the transaction should be treated as exempt under section 10(38) of the IT Act.
 Appellant's contentions were carefully considered and submissions were meticulously gone
 through. 5.1.5. I observe that the appellant has submitted copy of a bank statement of SB Account
 Number 072001000011216 in the name of the appellant as the evidence towards alleged
 purchase of the shares of M/s Baviscon Vincom Ltd. The entry reads as follows- 5.1.6. Besides these entries in the bank account, the appellant has submitted share bills from
 M/s FESTINO VINCOM PVT LTD.I observe that the share bill is not sales bill or any
 acknowledgement by the seller. Bill is not numbered and does not mention the actual
 acknowledgement of receipt of the consideration in respect of the Shares sold if any. These
 bills merely mention a communication to the appellant about the cost of the shares. In view of
 this, this communication can in no way conclude that the sales have actually been done from
 the party mentioned in the bill to the appellant. It is also noteworthy that even though the bill
 in respect of M/s FESTINO VINCOM PVT LTD. is dated 07.10.2011, the actual debit of the
 purported sum is on 31.03.2012 and the alleged credit of the shares is on 02.03.2012. The
 share bill does not mention the individual distinctive numbers of share certificates that has
 been sold. It is also noteworthy to mention here that even though the share bill dated
 07.10.2011 mentions about the sale of shares of a private limited company viz. M/s Baviscon
 Vincom Pvt. Ltd., the appellant has ultimately sold the shares of M/s Unno Industries Ltd.
 which was in fact a merged entity in which the shares of M/s Baviscon Vincom Ltd. (a public
 limited company) got amalgamated. The appellant has not been able to produce any proof
 with respect to the folio number or distinctive share certificates evidencing the transfer of the
 shares in physical format through endorsement from the alleged seller,

 5.1. 7. Whether the purchase of shares have been made through a broker 15 also not
 confirmed through production of any broker note or copies thereof. If the transaction of
 purchase has been carried out directly with the party the copy of the transfer deed has also not
 been submitted. Thus, in the absence of any broker note, deed of transfer etc., the appellant
 has not been able to produce any evidence as to the actual purchase of the share. That the sum
 of Rs 50,000 has gone from the appellant's bank account does not in any way prove the
 acquisition of such shares consequent to actual purchase by the appellant or actual delivery of
 the shares on the said date or thereafter in the absence of the acknowledgement by the seller
 of actual receipt of the funds in respect of actual delivery of shares from his demat account or
 folio evidencing receipt of the shares in appellant's name. Moreover, an equivalent amount of
 Rs. 50,000 has been deposited through transfer on the same day in the bank account. Thus, on
 facts, acquisition and holding of shares of M/s Baviscon Vincom Ltd. by the appellant from
 the said date of debit of alleged purchase sum from the bank account remains gravely in
 doubt. The fact that share bills show purchase of shares of a private limited company in
 contrast to the ultimate transfer of public limited company, leads to the unequivocal
 conclusion that the credit of such shares is from a bogus purchase. It is not any actual
 purchase but a mere arrangement for credit of such shares. 5.1.8. The exact acquisition of these shares, the period of holding of the shares by the
 appellant has not been proven by tendering necessary evidences. Thus, the facts that ooze out
 from the evidences submitted are that a debit of Rs 50,000 has been made from the appellant's
 bank account, that appellant has received 40 shares of M/s Baviscon Vincom Ltd and that
 credits of Rs 9,90,378.52 have been made to the appellant's bank account. The fact of credit
 of the shares to the appellant's demat account or in physical form pursuant to a genuine
 ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 5

 purchase, the genuineness of the purchase itself and the duration of holding of such shares in
 appellant's demat account for the period as contended have not been proven. 5.1. 9. I further observe, that the company M/s Baviscon Vincom Ltd. has offered bonus
 shares in the ratio of 79: 1 on the record date 23.03.2012. This is to be contrasted with alleged
 transfer of shares in the appellant's name before that date actually on 02.03.2012 whereas the
 consideration for the alleged purchase was debited from the appellant's bank account on
 31.03.2012. The record date for bonus offering was known to the seller and yet even before
 the receipt of the consideration sum, it parted with the shares knowing very well that
 substantial amount of bonus is to be foregone. This itself leads to the unequivocal conclusion
 that the appellant's contention with respect to the purchase of shares Is not in the domain of
 normal human conduct. It is also significant to mention here that another company viz. M/s
 Pinnacle Vintrade Ltd. also declared bonus issuance on the same record date. That both these
 companies namely M/s Pinnacle Vintrade Ltd. and M/s Baviscon Vincom Ltd applied for
 amalgamation with M/s Unno industries within the next 2 months also points to a well-
 designed planning In providing accommodation to bogus long term capital gain seekers
 through the artifice of creating a private company, converting the same to a public company,
 issuing bonus shares, declaring split of the shares and thereby increasing the share- holding
 and ultimately amalgamating with a listed company which is very thinly traded and having no
 business name its worth: M/s Baviscon- Vincom Ltd. was Incorporated on 29.07.2009 but
 subsequently applied for amalgamation with Mls Unno Industries Ltd. In the year 2012 itself.
 Thus, during the brief period since its incorporation, the appellant allegedly purchased the
 shares of the said unlisted company which had no other purpose but to amalgamate with
 another company with in first few months of its incorporation. The appellant has no past
 history or expertise of share trading and as per the AO, from the case records and returns the
 appellant does not show substantial trading activity. This has not been rebutted with any
 evidence by the appellant during the appellate proceedings. Thus, picking a script of a
 company which is just incorporated a few months back without having knowledge of any
 financials or past record, without any insider information and yet timing to get the advantage
 of a bonus declaration and waiting to watch the company applying for amalgamation with
 another and ultimately selling it with an astronomical profit of an unusual 2,200 percent of its
 purchase price requires an expertise which the appellant is badly lacking. The appellant has
 dabbled with the share transactions occasionally, few and far between, having transacted only
 in a few scripts during the year of the impugned purchases. The appellant has not produced
 any proof of having acquired any shares with similar gains prior to the year of impugned
 purchases. 5.1.10. I further observe the statement made by Shri Anil Kumar Khemka as referred to by the
 AO. The weight of the evidence in the face of unequivocal admission by the concerned
 accommodation provider that the shares of Unno Industries Ltd. has been rigged through in-
 paper-only jama-kharchi companies to provide LTCG/STCL through arranged tradings,
 cannot be brushed aside. Similarly, the astronomical increase in the share price of Unno
 Industries Ltd. without any ostensible reason either by dint of its financials or by dint of the
 future probability of abnormal profitability through orders of purchase or
 agreements/contracts as against the Sensex cannot be lost sight of. The fact of abnormal and
 arranged increase in the share price has actually been corroborated by the statement of Shri
 Anil Kumar Khemka. 5.1.11. UIL (Unno Industries Limited) had filed a Scheme of Arrangement before the Hon'ble
 High Court of Bombay between Unno Industries Limited, Pinnacle Vintrade Limited,
 Basuklnath Realestate Limited and Baviscon Vincom Limited under Section 393 of the
 Companies Act, 1956. The Hon'ble High Court, had vide Order dated July 13, 2012 directed
 that a meeting of the Equity Shareholders of UIL be convened to consider and approve the
 proposed Scheme of Arrangement. Accordingly a meeting of the Equity Shareholders of UIL
 was convenedon Monday, August 13, 2012, and the meeting approved the Scheme of
 ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 6

 Arrangement. It is noteworthy to mention also that as on date 31.03.2011, the net profit after
 tax and earning per share of M/s Unno Industries Ltd. was in the negative and yet the
 appellant continued to hold the shares of the same even when the company M/s Baviscon
 Vincom Ltd. applied for amalgamation with M/s Unno Industries Ltd. within a few months. It
 is also noteworthy to mention that even taking into account the bonus shares received, the net
 purchase value per share to the appellant was almost Rs.16 per share whereas from the table
 mentioned below it can be seen that net worth of one share of M/s Unno Industries Learned.
 Was only Rs.7.87 as on 31.03.2011. And yet, the appellant continued to hold the shares of
 M/s Baviscon Vincom Ltd. till the date of amalgamation and did not sell it. This is beyond the
 natural conduct of any rational shareholder. ( Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. P. Mohanakala )(SC)

 5.1.14. In identical circumstances, the Nagpur bench of the ITAT In the case of Sanjay
 Bimalchand Jain versus the ITO in LT.A. No. 61/Nag/2013 observed as below- ( Vijay Kumar Talwar Vs. CIT )(SC). 5.1.15. It is noteworthy to mention that the above referred decision has since been affirmed by
 the honourable Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court in INCOME TAX APPEAL NO.
 18/2017 in the case of SANJAY BIMAlCHAND JAIN L/H SHANTIDEVI BIMALCHAND
 JAIN ,VERSUS THE PR.COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX-I,NAGPUR & ANOTHER. 5.1.16. On identical circumstances, the Honourable Mumbai Tribunal in the case of Ratnakar
 M. Pujari versus ITO in I .T.A. No.995/Mum/2012 observes as follows- ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 9

 "We have considered the rival contentions and also perused the material available We
 have observed that no scrutiny assessment has been framed for the impugned
 assessment year by the Revenue u/s 143(3) of the Act originally, while based on
 information received from Addl.CIT(Inv.), Unit-v, Mumbai that the assessee is
 indulging in non-genuine and bogus capital gains from transaction of sale and
 purchase of shares of M/s Shiv Om Investment and Consultancy Limited which was
 penny stock company and pre-dated contract notes were issued by the Brokers to
 manipulate and introduce long term capital gains in favour of the assessee which are
 exempt from tax u/s 10(38) of the Act leading to escapement of income from taxation
 / which led to issue of notice dated 07-04-2008 u/s 148 of the Act which is within
 four years from the end of the relevant assessment year, the receipt of afore-stated
 information from Addl. C1T(Inv) in our considered view is fresh and tangible
 material which has live link and nexus with the formation of belief that the income of
 the assessee has escaped assessment, and keeping in view that the original assessment
 was not framed u/s 143(3) of the Act and no opinion was. ever formed by the AD and
 hence there is no change of opinion keeping In view the ratio of decision of Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the case of ACIT v. Rajesh Jhaveri Stock Brokers Private Limited
 (2007) 291 ITR 500(SC), we uphold the re-opening of the assessment u/s 147 / 148 of
 the Act. We have observed that the assessee has made purchases of 4000 shares of
 M/s Shiv Om Investment and Consultancy Limited for Rs.4,080/- on 11th May, 2004
 in the previous year relevant to the assessment year 2005-06. The said shares were
 purchased in off market transactions for which payments were made in cash The said
 purchases have been treated as bogus and sham transactions by the Revenue as it is
 alleged that certain brokers have manipulated and issued pre-dated contract notes
 which even did not have details such as time of contract, trade number , transaction
 details etc and payments were also made in cash by the assessee against such sham
 and bogus purchase with the objective of introducing by manipulating tax free exempt
 long term capital gains u/s 10(38) of the Act leading to escapement of income from
 taxation , and the said findings of the AO with respect to bogus and sham purchases
 have become conclusive and final as the assessee has not challenged the findings of
 the learned AO made in the assessment order dated 24.12.2009 passed by the AO u/s
 143(3) read with Section 147 of the Act in the first appeal filed with learned CIT(A)
 for the assessment year 2005-06 and hence the finding of the AO has attained finality.
 Since the said findings of the AO with respect to purchases of 4000 shares of M/s
 Shiv Om Investment and Consultancy Limited in assessment year 2005-06 have
 become conclusive having attained finality, the sales in consequence thereof the sham
 and bogus purchases cannot be accepted as genuine. The assessee has explained that
 the purchases were backed with contract notes of the brokers and payments were
 made in cash will not be of any help at this stage as the said findings of the AO
 treating the purchase of shares as sham and bogus in the assessment year.200S-06 has
 attained finality, Since, purchases are held to be bogus and sham which has attained
 finality, the sale in consequence thereof whereby payments are received through
 cheque or shares being sold through stock exchange are not of any help to the
 assessee for claiming the exemption as long term capital gains as the allegation of the
 Revenue is that the assessee has in collusion with the Brokers has manipulated and
 camouflaged the entire transactions of sale and purchase of shares in getting issued
 pre-dated contract notes for purchases of shares for which payments were also made
 for these purchase in cash and hence these purchases never existed at that relevant
 time . It is the allegation of the Revenue that the entire sale and purchase of shares
 were manipulated by the assessee in collusion with the brokers in order to earn tax
 free exempt long-term capital gains on sales of shares u/s 10(38) of the Act whereby
 unaccounted cash of the assessee has been introduced in disguise in lieu of sale
 proceeds of shares. Keeping in view facts and circumstances of the case and as per
 our discussions and reasoning as set out above, we find no infirmity in the orders of
 the learned CIT(A) which we uphold and sustain" assessee relied upon the decision of
 ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 10

 the ITAT , Hyderabad in the case of ITO v, Smt Aarti Mittal (2014) 41 taxmann.com
 118(Hyd.-Trib) whereby the Tribunal has arrived at the decision that sale and
 purchase was genuine even though purchase was off-market transaction which was
 routed not through stock exchange but backed by physical delivery of shares which
 was later de-mated and under the circumstances the ITAT held the transactions as
 genuine in nature and the assessee claim was found to be in order, but in the instant
 case there is a conclusive and final finding of fact that purchases of shares were bogus
 and sham as was held by the Revenue in the assessment year 2005-06 which has not
 been dislodged so far as the assessee accepted the said findings which became
 conclusive, thus the facts in the instant case are distinguishable as against the relied
 upon case of the assessee in Smt Aarti Mitta/ (supra) on that ground itself. Similarly,
 contentions of the assessee that the Revenue has accepted the gains on sale of 1500
 shares of M/s Shiv Om Investment and Consultancy Limited in the succeeding
 assessment year 2007-08 as long term capital gains while processing of return u/s
 143(1) of the Act is not of help to the assessee as every assessment year is separate
 assessment year and merely because the Revenue has not selected the case under
 scrutiny by issuing notice u/s 143(2) of the Act and framing detailed scrutiny u/s
 143(3) of the Act instead chose to process the return u/s 143(1) of the Act without
 scrutiny will not entitle the assessee to get the well- reasoned assessment orders and
 appellate orders of the learned CIT( A) dislodged in the absence of the cogent
 material and evidences to demolish the findings of the authorities below. The
 Revenue in the case of the assessee's brother has also declared the purchase and sale
 of shares as bogus but brought to tax, gains arising from sale of shares as short term
 capital gains. This in our considered view, is also not of help as the Revenue in the
 instant case has come to the conclusive finding which attained finality that the
 transactions of purchase of shares are sham and bogus transactions camouflaged with
 an intention to evade taxes . We order accordingly. " 5.1.18. In similar circumstances, the following decisions are also noteworthy to mention- i) Chandan Gutpa vs. CIT - Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court (2015 54
 taxmann.com 10 (P&H)/ (2015) 229 Taxman 173. ii) Balbir Chand Maini vs. CIT - Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court (2011) 12
 taxmann.com 276 iii) Usha Chandresh Shah vs. ITO, ITAT Mumbai 2014-TIOL-1459-ITAT-MUM. ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 11

 5.1.19, It is a well-settled principle of law as declared by Honourable Supreme Court in the
 case of Sumathi Dayal Vs CIT 214 ITR 801 (SC) that the true nature of transaction has to be
 ascertained in the light of surrounding circumstances. It needs to be emphasised that even
 though the standard of proof consisting of proving beyond reasonable doubt has no
 applicability in determination of matters under taxing statutes, yet it is also a well settled
 principle that taxing authorities are entitled to look into the surrounding circumstances to find
 out the reality of the transactions by applying the test of human probabilities. This was also
 the principle laid down by Honourable Supreme Court in the case of CIT versus Durgaprasad
 More 82 ITR 540 (SC) wherein The Hon'ble Court held 'It is true that the apparent must be
 considered to be real until it is shown that there are reasons to believe that the appellant is not
 the real. In a case of the present kind a party who relies on a recital in a deed has to establish
 the truth of these recitals, otherwise it will be very easy to make self-serving statements in
 documents either executed or taken by a party in rely on those recitals. 1f all that an assessee
 who wants to evade tax is to have some recitals made in a document either executed by him or
 executed in his favour then the door will be left wide open to the evade tax. A little probing
 was sufficient in the present case to show that the apparent was not the real. The taxing
 authorities were not required to put on blinkers while looking at the documents produced
 before them. They were entitled to look into the surrounding circumstances to find out the
 reality of the recitals made in those documents." 5.1.20. On going through the case-laws relied upon by the appellant, I observe that all of them
 are distinguishable on facts as the genuineness of the purchase of shares Is not proven in the
 Instant case and the period of holding as stated is not also proven with any verifiable
 evidence. 5.1.21. Thus, from the facts and circumstances of the case and the Catena of case laws
 referred to above, I come to the conclusion that on the basis of documentary evidences,
 circumstantial evidences, human conduct and preponderance of probabilities what appears to
 be apparent in this case is actually not real. I affirm the conclusion reached by the AO in this
 regard that the financial transactions are actually sham and the entire edifice is only a
 colourable device meant to be a smoke screen to defraud the revenue and evade taxes. The
 abnormal profits and consequent long-term capital gains on sale of shares has 'actually not
 arisen from investment in shares In natural or in ordinary way but due to a designed,
 preplanned, arranged trading made through a camouflaged artifice in cahoots with operators. I
 also come to the conclusion that the appellant has failed in giving any evidence to prove' the
 genuineness of the purchase of the alleged shares leading to LTCG which qualify for
 exemption under section 10(38) of the IT Act. As the appellant has failed to' identify the
 source of the credit and its genuineness, the addition made by the AO of the entire receipt
 purportedly to have been received out of sale of shares, under section 68 of the IT Act is
 legally justified and does not call for any interference. Appellant's grounds fail." I further find that brokerage commission also stands disallowed in both the
 lower proceedings in some of the cases. 3. I have given my thoughtful consideration to rival contentions. Identical paper
book(s) comprising of relevant purchase bills of shares, allotments certificates,
contract notes, brokerages details ledger, demat statement etc., stand perused. Mr.
Bhattacherjya vehemently contends during the course of hearing that all these
assessees have acted in collusion with various entry operators for availing the
impugned LTCG entries claimed to be exempt s. 10(38) of the Act. He strongly
 ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 12

supports both the lower authorities' action seriously doubting genuineness of the
impugned capital gains more particularly as analysized in assessment order as per
scrip price movement in stock exchange, profit and loss account, balance-sheet and
business activities. Mr. Bhattacherjya's case is that the impugned LTCG derived from
sale of contract scrip which has not seen any profitable business activity during the
relevant holding period which defies all commercial prudence which has been rightly
treated as non-genuine both in assessment as well as lower appellate proceedings. He
quotes case law of Sumati Dayal vs. CIT (1995) 80 Taxmann. 89/214 ITR 801 (SC)
and CIT vs. Durga Prasad More (1971) 82 ITR 540 (SC) various tribunal decisions as
well as hon'ble high court's judgments adding similar sums to be unexplained cash
credits are also cited in support. 4. I find no merit in either of the Revenue's above stated submissions. It emerges
that this tribunal's co-ordinate bench's decision in Sanjay Mehta vs. ACIT ITA
No.1089/Kol/2018 decided on 28.09.2018 has deleted identical addition of LTCG
treated as unexplained cash credits regarding the very scrip as follows:- "5. We have given our thoughtful consideration to rival contentions. Case file as well as a
 compilation of judicial precedent stand perused. Learned Departmental Representative
 emphasizes time and again that the instant issue of bogus LTCG has rightly been decided
 against the assessee in both assessment as well as lower appellate proceedings raised
 pertaining to artificial manipulation of share prices in both M/s Unno Industries Ltd. & Sharp
 Trading Finance Ltd. We find no force in Revenue's instant argument. This tribunal co-
 ordinate bench's decision in ITA 2394/Kol/2017 Prakash Chand Bhutoria vs. ITO decided on
 27.06.2018 for AY 2014-15 itself upholds such a share prices increase to be genuine qua the
 above former entity as under:- 2013-14 and 2014-15 in respect of long term capital gains are enclosed. Annexure IV. 10. The Equity Shares of M/s Unno Industries Ltd. were submitted for dematerialization on
 01.04.2013 and credited to my Demat A/c No. 1203450000003128 with M/s Ashika Stock
 Broking Ltd. (DP ID No. 12034500) on 12.04.2013 (91000 shares).
 Details of Sale of Share for Long Term Capital Gain financial year 2013-14(A.Y.2014- 15): whose details are as under: Address: Trinity, 7th Floor, 226/1, A.J.C. Bose Road, Kolkata-700020.
 Contact No. 033 22839952. Address: Guiness House, 18, Deshpriya Park Road, Kolkata-700026
 Contact No. 033 30015555. 3. Contract Notes issued regarding sale of equity shares of Unno Industries Ltd. on
 Bombay Stock Exchange by SEBI registered brokers- Ashika Stock Broking Ltd. and
 Guiness Securities ltd. are enclosed. Annexure V. 4. The relevant Demat Account statements of Ashika Stock Broking Ltd. and Guiness
 Securities Ltd. reflecting the debit of shares of Unno Industries Ltd. upon sale are
 enclosed. (entries highlighted). Annexure VI. 5. The Ledger of the brokers of Ashika Stock Broking Ltd. and Guiness Securities Ltd.
 for the financial year 2013-14 are enclosed. Annexure VII. 6. Tamilnad Mercantile Ltd. bank Statement reflecting the receipts of sale consideration
 from the SEBI registered stock brokers (highlighting the said entries) is enclosed.
 Annexure VIII. 7. Out of sale consideration money of Rs. 3151423.00 from Unno Industries Ltd. a sum
 of Rs. 3150000.00 has been invested in equity shares of Glow Diam Designs Pvt. Ltd. All the evidences were attached as annexures as stated above. 6. The Assessing Officer in his order did not refer to any of these evidences. Instead at para 6
 and 7 he concluded held as follows: 7. Thereafter the AO made an addition under 68 of the Act. Aggrieved the assessee carried the
 matter an appeal. The ld. First appellate authority confirmed the action of the AO on the
 ground that, the transaction in question comes within the ambit of 'Suspicious Transaction'
 and therefore, the rules of 'Suspicious Transaction' would apply to the case. He further stated
 ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 15

 that the payments through bank of processing of transaction through stock exchange and other
 such features are only apparent features and that the real feature are the manipulation and
 abnormal price raise and the sudden dip thereafter. Based on surrounding circumstances and
 circumstantial evidence and the order of the Tribunal in the case of " Bhag Chand Chabra
 (HUF) vs. ITO ", in I.T.A. No. 3088& 3107/2007 dated 31.12.2010, the addition made by the
 AO was confirmed. Aggrieved the assessee is in appeal before us. 8. A perusal of the order of the AO demonstrates that this addition was made merely on
 "suspicion" and in a routine and mechanical manner. This is clear from the fact that the AO
 refers to some 'Sharp Trading Compnay as one of the main ,manipulated company and
 whereas the assessee sold scrips in Unno Industries Ltd. The AO refers to various enquiries
 made by "The Directors of Income Tax", Kolkata on project basis and that this resulted into
 unearthing of a huge syndicate of entry operators and share brokers and money lenders
 involved in providing of bogus accommodation entries. The report as the so-called project and
 the evidence collected by the DIT (Inv.), Kolkata etc have not been brought on record. It is
 well settled that any document relied upon by the AO for making an addition has to be
 supplied to the assessee and an opportunity should be provided to the assessee to rebut the
 same. In this case, general statements have been made by the AO and the addition is made
 based on such generalizations. The assessee has not been confronted with any of the evidence
 collected in the investigation done by the DIT(Inv.), Kolkata. Evidence collected from third
 parties cannot be used against the assessee without giving a copy of the same to the assessee
 and thereafter giving him an opportunity to rebut the same. 9. The AO further relies on the shop increase of 31000% of the value of shares over the
 period of 2 years. Though this is highly suspicious, it cannot take the place of evidence. The
 Hon'ble Supreme Court has stated that suspicion however strong cannot be the basis for
 making an addition. The evidence produced by the assessee listed above proves his case and
 the AO could not controvert the same by bringing on record any evidence. The evidence said
 to have been collected by the DIT (INV.), Kolkata and the report is not produced before this
 Bench. 10. I now discuss the case law on the subject. The Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of
 CIT, Kolkata-III vs. Smt. Shreyashi Ganguli reported in [2012] (9) TMI 1113 held as follows: The High Court held that the transactions were at the prevailing price and therefore the
 suspicion of the AO was misplaced and not substantiated. ( ii) CIT V. Lakshmangarh Estate & Trading Co. Limited [2013] 40 taxmann.com 439 (Cal) - In this case the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court held that on the basis of a suspicion howsoever
 strong it is not possible to record any finding of fact. As a matter of fact suspicion can never
 take the place of proof. It was further held that in absence of any evidence on record, it is
 difficult if not impossible, to hold that the transactions of buying or selling of shares were
 colourable transactions or were resorted to with ulterior motive. (iii) CIT V. Shreyashi Ganguli [ITA No. 196 of 2012] (Cal HC) - In this case the Hon'ble
 Calcutta High Court held that the Assessing Officer doubted the transactions since the selling
 broker was subjected to SEBI's action. However the transactions were as per norms and
 suffered STT, brokerage, service tax, and cess. There is no iota of evidence over the
 transactions as it were reflected in demat account. The appeal filed by the revenue was
 dismissed. ( iv) CIT V. Rungta Properties Private Limited [ITA No. 105 of 2016] (Cal HC) - In this
 case the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court affirmed the decision of this tribunal , wherein, the
 tribunal allowed the appeal of the assessee where the AO did not accept the explanation of
 the assessee in respect of his transactions in alleged penny stocks. The Tribunal found that the
 AO disallowed the loss on trading of penny stock on the basis of some information received by
 him. However, it was also found that the AO did not doubt the genuineness of the documents
 submitted by the assessee. The Tribunal held that the AO's conclusions are merely based on
 the information received by him. The appeal filed by the revenue was dismissed. ( v) CIT V. Andaman Timbers Industries Limited [ITA No. 721 of 2008] (Cal HC) - In this
 case the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court affirmed the decision of this Tribunal wherein the loss
 suffered by the Assessee was allowed since the AO failed to bring on record any evidence to
 suggest that the sale of shares by the Assessee were not genuine. ( vi) CIT V. Bhagwati Prasad Agarwal [2009- TMI-34738 (Cal HC) in ITA No. 22 of
 2009 dated 29.4.2009] - In this case the Assessee claimed exemption of income from
 Long Term Capital Gains. However, the AO, based on the information received by
 him from Calcutta Stock Exchange found that the transactions were not recorded
 thereat. He therefore held that the transactions were bogus. The Hon'ble
 Jurisdictional High Court, affirmed the decision of the Tribunal wherein it was found
 that the chain of transactions entered into by the assessee have been proved,
 accounted for, documented and supported by evidence. It was also found that the
 assessee produced the contract notes, details of demat accounts and produced
 documents showing all payments were received by the assessee through banks. On
 these facts, the appeal of the revenue was summarily dismissed by High Court. 8.4. In the light of the documents stated i.e. (I to xiv) in Para 6(supra) we find that there is
 absolutely no adverse material to implicate the assessee to have entered gamut of
 unfounded/unwarranted allegations leveled by the AO against the assessee, which in our
 considered opinion has no legs to stand and therefore has to fall. We take note that the ld. DR
 could not controvert the facts supported with material evidences which are on record and could
 only rely on the orders of the AO/CIT(A). We note that in the absence of material/evidence the
 ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 17

 allegations that the assessee/brokers got involved in price rigging/manipulation of shares must
 therefore also fail. At the cost of repetition, we note that the assessee had furnished all relevant
 evidence in the form of bills, contract notes, demat statement and bank account to prove the
 genuineness of the transactions relevant to the purchase and sale of shares resulting in long
 term capital gain. These evidences were neither found by the AO nor by the ld. CIT(A) to be
 false or fictitious or bogus. The facts of the case and the evidence in support of the evidence
 clearly support the claim of the assessee that the transactions of the assessee were genuine and
 the authorities below was not justified in rejecting the claim of the assessee that income from
 LTCG is exempted u/s 10(38) of the Act. For coming to such a conclusion we rely on the
 decision of the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of M/s. Alipine Investments in ITA
 No.620 of 2008 dated 26th August, 2008 wherein the High Court held as follows : 8.5. We note that the ld. AR cited plethora of the case laws to bolster his claim which are not
 being repeated again since it has already been incorporated in the submissions of the ld. AR
 (supra) and have been duly considered by us to arrive at our conclusion. The ld. DR could not
 bring to our notice any case laws to support the impugned decision of the ld. CIT(A)/AO. In the
 aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, we hold that the ld. CIT(A) was not justified in
 upholding the addition of sale proceeds of the shares as undisclosed income of the assessee u/s
 68 of the Act. We, therefore, direct the AO to delete the addition. 9. In the result the appeal of the assessee is allowed." The "A" bench of the Kolkata Tribunal in the case of ITO vs. Shaleen Khemani in I.T.A. No.
 1945/Kol/2014 dated 18.10.2017 at para 9.1. to 9.4 held as follows: The ld AO doubted the transactions due to the high rise in the stock price but for that,
 the assessee could not be blamed and there was no evidence to prove that the assessee
 or any one on his behalf was manipulating the stock prices. The stock exchange and
 SEBI are the authorities appointed by the Government of India to ensure that there is
 no stock rigging or manipulation. The ld AO has not brought any evidence on record
 to show that these agencies have alleged any stock manipulation against the assessee
 and or the brokers and or the Company. In absence of any evidences it cannot be said
 that merely because the stock price moved sharply, the assessee was to be blamed for
 bogus transactions. It is also to be seen that in this case, the shares were held by the
 Donors from 2003 and sold in 2010 thus there was a holding period of 7 years as per Section 49 of the Act and it cannot be said that the assessee and the Donors were
 making such plans for the last 7 years to rig the stock price to generate bogus capital
 gains that too without any evidences whatsoever. ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 18

 9.2 It is also pertinent to note that the assessee and / or the stock broker M/s P
 Didwania & Co and Toshith Securities P Ltd., both registered share and stock brokers
 with Calcutta Stock Exchange had confirmed the transaction and have issued legally
 valid contract notes under the Law and such contract notes are available in pages 41-
 52 of the Paper Book. We find that the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of Pr
 CIT Vs Rungta Properties Private Limited ITAT No 105 of 2016 dated 8th May 2017 in
 a similar issue dismissed the appeal of the Department by making the following
 observations: We agree with the reasoning of the Tribunal on this point also. We do not find any
 reason to interfere with the impugned order. The suggested questions, in our opinion
 do not raise any substantial question of law. 9.3. We therefore hold that there is absolutely no adverse material to implicate the
 assessee to the entire gamut of unwarranted allegations leveled by the ld AO against
 the assessee, which in our considered opinion, has no legs to stand in the eyes of law.
 We find that the ld DR could not controvert the arguments of the ld AR with contrary
 material evidences on record and merely relied on the orders of the ld AO. We find
 that the allegation that the assessee and / or Brokers getting involved in price rigging
 of SOICL shares fails. It is also a matter of record that the assessee furnished all
 evidences in the form of bills, contract notes, demat statements and the bank accounts
 to prove the genuineness of the transactions relating to purchase and sale of shares
 resulting in LTCG. These evidences were neither found by the ld AO to be false or
 fabricated. The facts of the case and the evidences in support of the assessee's case
 clearly support the claim of the assessee that the transactions of the assessee were
 bona fide and genuine and therefore the ld AO was not justified in rejecting the
 assessee's claim of exemption under section 10(38) of the Act. We also find that the ld
 CITA rightly relied on the decision of the Hon'ble High Court at Calcutta in the case
 of ALPINE INVESTMENTS in ITA No. 620 of 2008 dated 26th August 2008 wherein
 the Hon'ble Court held as follows: 9.4. We also find that the various other case laws of Hon'ble Jurisdictional High
 Court and other case laws also relied upon by the ld AR and findings given thereon
 would apply to the facts of the instant case. The ld DR was not able to furnish any
 contrary cases to this effect. Hence we hold that the ld AO was not justified in
 assessing the sale proceeds of shares of SOICL as undisclosed income of the assessee
 u/s 68 of the Act and therefore we uphold the order of the ld CITA and dismiss the
 appeal of the revenue. Accordingly the grounds raised by the revenue are dismissed." Applying the proposition of law laid down in all the above referred cases, the facts of this
 case, I find force in the submission of the assessee and there are backed by evidence. I also
 find that the revenue has not based its finding on in any evidence. In view of the above
 discussion the addition made u/s 68 of the Act is hereby deleted." 6. Learned Departmental Representative vehemently contends at this stage that the DIT(Inv)
 has carried out a detailed investigation in various entry operators cases. They have been found
 to have rigged such kind scrip's prices rise. There is not even a single material during the
 course of hearing which could suggest the assessee to have engaged in any kind of foul play.
 This tribunal's another co-ordinate bench decision in ITA No.2281/Kol/2017 Navneet
 Agarwal vs. ITO decided on 20.07.2018 has rejected Revenue's all these arguments as
 follows: Cressanda Solutions Ltd." The demat shares are reflected in the transaction statement of
 the period from 1st November 2011 to 31st December, 2013 (A copy of the scheme of
 amalgamation alongwith copy of order of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court and a copy of
 the letter to this effect submitted by "Cressanda Solutions Ltd". to Bombay Stock
 Exchange is placed in the Paper Book at page no 22 to 43.) 6. The assessee sold 50000 shares costing Rs. 500000/- through her broker "SKP Stock
 Broking Pvt. Ltd" which was a SEBI registered broker and earned a Long Term Capital
 Gain of Rs. 2,18,13,072/-. (Copy of the bank statement, brokers contract note together
 with the delivery instructions given to the DP and broker's confirmation is also placed in
 the paper book at page no 44 to 65). 7. Copy of Form No. 10DB issued by the broker, in support of charging of S.T.T. in respect
 of the transactions appearing in the ledger is placed in the paper book at page no. 66. 8. The holding period of the said scrip is more than one year (above 500 days) through in
 order to get the benefit of claim of Long Term Capital Gain the holding period is required
 to be 365 days. 12.The assessing officer as well as the Ld. CIT(A) have rejected these evidences filed by the
 assessee by referring to "Modus Operandi" of persons for earning long term capital gains
 which his exempt from income tax. All these observations are general in nature and are
 applied across the board to all the 60,000 or more assessees who fall in this category. Specific
 evidences produced by the assessee are not controverted by the revenue authorities. No
 evidence collected from third parties is confronted to the assesses. No opportunity of cross-
 examination of persons, on whose statements the revenue relies to make the addition, is
 provided to the assessee. The addition is made based on a report from the investigation wing. 13. The issue for consideration before us is whether, in such cases, the legal evidence
 produced by the assessee has to guide our decision in the matter or the general observations
 based on statements, probabilities, human behavior and discovery of the modus operandi
 adopted in earning alleged bogus LTCG and STCG, that have surfaced during investigations
 should guide the authorities in arriving at a conclusion as to whether the claim in genuine or
 not. An alleged scam might have taken place on LTCG etc. But it has to be established in
 each case, by the party alleging so, that this assessee in question was part of this scam. The
 chain of events and the live link of the assessee's action giving her involvement in the scam
 should be established. The allegation imply that cash was paid by the assessee and in return
 the assessee received LTCG, which is income exempt from income tax, by way of cheque
 through Banking channels. This allegation that cash had changed hands, has to be proved with
 evidence, by the revenue. Evidence gathered by the Director Investigation's office by way of
 statements recorded etc. has to also be brought on recording each case, when such a
 statement, evidence etc. is relied upon by the revenue to make any additions. Opportunity of
 cross examination has to be provided to the assessee, if the AO relies on any statements or
 third party as evidence to make an addition. If any material or evidence is sought to be relied
 ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 21

 upon by the AO, he has to confront the assessee with such material. The claim of the assessee
 cannot be rejected based on mere conjectures unverified by evidence under the pretentious
 garb of preponderance of human probabilities and theory of human behavior by the
 department. 14. It is well settled that evidence collected from third parties cannot be used against an
 assessee unless this evidence is put before him and he is given an opportunity to controvert
 the evidence. In this case, the AO relies only on a report as the basis for the addition. The
 evidence based on which the DDIT report is prepared is not brought on record by the AO nor
 is it put before the assessee. The submission of the assessee that she is just an investor and as
 she received some tips and she chose to invest based on these market tips and had taken a
 calculated risk and had gained in the process and that she is not party to the scam etc., has to
 be controverted by the revenue with evidence. When a person claims that she has done these
 transactions in a bona fide and genuine manner and was benefitted, one cannot reject this
 submission based on surmises and conjectures. As the report of investigation wing suggests,
 there are more than 60,000 beneficiaries of LTCG. Each case has to be assessed based on
 legal principles of legal import laid down by the Courts of law. 15. In our view, just the modus operandi, generalisation, preponderance of human
 probabilities cannot be the only basis for rejecting the claim of the assessee. Unless specific
 evidence is brought on record to controvert the validity and correctness of the documentary
 evidences produced, the same cannot be rejected by the assessee. The Hon'ble Supreme Court
 in the case of Omar Salav Mohamed Sait reported in (1959) 37 ITR 151 (S C) had held that
 no addition can be made on the basis of surmises, suspicion and conjectures. In the case of CIT(Central), Kolkata vs. Daulat Ram Rawatmull reported in 87 ITR 349, the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court held that, the onus to prove that the apparent is not the real is on the party who
 claims it to be so. The burden of proving a transaction to be bogus has to be strictly
 discharged by adducing legal evidences, which would directly prove the fact of bogusness or
 establish circumstance unerringly and reasonably raising an interference to that effect. The
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Umacharan Shah & Bros. Vs. CIT 37 ITR 271 held that
 suspicion however strong, cannot take the place of evidence. In this connection we refer to the
 general view on the topic of conveyance of immovable properties. The rates/sale price are at
 variance with the circle rates fixed by the Registration authorities of the Government in most
 cases and the general impression is that cash would have changed hands. The courts have laid
 down that judicial notice of such notorious facts cannot be taken based on generalisations.
 Courts of law are bound to go by evidence. 16. We find that the assessing officer as well as the Ld. CIT(A) has been guided by the report
 of the investigation wing prepared with respect to bogus capital gains transactions. However,
 we do not find that the assessing officer as well as the Ld. CIT(A), have brought out any part
 of the investigation wing report in which the assessee has been investigated and /or found to
 be a part of any arrangement for the purpose of generating bogus long term capital gains.
 Nothing has been brought on record to show that the persons investigated, including entry
 operators or stock brokers, have named that the assessee was in collusion with them. In
 absence of such finding how is it possible to link their wrong doings with the assessee. In fact,
 the investigation wing is a separate department which has not been assigned assessment work
 and has been delegated the work of only making investigation. The Act has vested widest
 powers on this wing. It is the duty of the investigation wing to conduct proper and detailed
 inquiry in any matter where there is allegation of tax evasion and after making proper inquiry
 and collecting proper evidences the matter should be sent to the assessment wing to assess the
 income as per law. We find no such action executed by investigation wing against the
 assessee. In absence of any finding specifically against the assessee in the investigation wing
 report, the assessee cannot be held to be guilty or linked to the wrong acts of the persons
 investigated. In this case, in our view, the Assessing Officer at best could have considered the
 investigation report as a starting point of investigation. The report only informed the assessing
 ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 22

 officer that some persons may have misused the script for the purpose of collusive
 transaction. The Assessing Officer was duty bound to make inquiry from all concerned parties
 relating to the transaction and then to collect evidences that the transaction entered into by the
 assessee was also a collusive transaction. We, however, find that the Assessing Officer has
 not brought on record any evidence to prove that the transactions entered by the assessee
 which are otherwise supported by proper third party documents are collusive transactions. 17. The Hon'ble Supreme Court way back in the case of Lalchand Bhagat Ambica Ram vs.
 CIT [1959] 37 ITR 288 (SC) held that assessment could not be based on background of
 suspicion and in absence of any evidence to support the same. The Hon'ble Court held: The observations of the Hon'ble Apex Court are equally applicable to the case of the
 assessee. In our view, the assessing officer having failed to bring on record any material to
 prove that the transaction of the assessee was a collusive transaction could not have rejected
 the evidences submitted by the assessee. In fact, in this case nothing has been found against
 the assessee with aid of any direct evidences or material against the assessee despite the
 matter being investigated by various wings of the Income Tax Department hence in our view
 under these circumstances nothing can be implicated against the assessee. 18. We now consider the various propositions of law laid down by the Courts of law. That
 cross-examination is one part of the principles of natural justice has been laid down in the
 following judgments: ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 23 a) Ayaaubkhan Noorkhan Pathan vs. The State of Maharashtra and Ors . b) Andaman Timber Industries vs. Commissioner of C. Ex., Kolkata-II wherein it was held
 that: ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 24

 "4. We have heard Mr. Kavin Gulati, learned senior counsel appearing for the
 Assessee, and Mr. K.Radhakrishnan, learned senior counsel who appeared for the
 Revenue. 5. According to us, not allowing the Assessee to cross-examine the witnesses by the
 Adjudicating Authority though the statements of those witnesses were made the basis
 of the impugned order is a serious flaw which makes the order nullity inasmuch as it
 amounted to violation of principles of natural justice because of which the Assessee
 was adversely affected. It is to be borne in mind that the order of the Commissioner
 was based upon the statements given by the aforesaid two witnesses. Even when the
 Assessee disputed the correctness of the statements and wanted to cross-examine, the
 Adjudicating Authority did not grant this opportunity to the Assessee. It would be
 pertinent to note that in the impugned order passed by the Adjudicating Authority he
 has specifically mentioned that such an opportunity was sought by the Assessee.
 However, no such opportunity was granted and the aforesaid plea is not even dealt
 with by the Adjudicating Authority. As far as the Tribunal is concerned, we find that
 rejection of this plea is totally untenable. The Tribunal has simply stated that cross-
 examination of the said dealers could not have brought out any material which would
 not be in possession of the Appellant themselves to explain as to why their ex-factory
 prices remain static. It was not for the Tribunal to have guess work as to for what
 purposes the Appellant wanted to cross-examine those dealers and what extraction
 the Appellant wanted from them. 6. As mentioned above, the Appellant had contested the truthfulness of the statements
 of these two witnesses and wanted to discredit their testimony for which purpose it
 wanted to avail the opportunity of cross-examination. That apart, the Adjudicating
 Authority simply relied upon the price list as maintained at the depot to determine the
 price for the purpose of levy of excise duty. Whether the goods were, in fact, sold to
 the said dealers/witnesses at the price which is mentioned in the price list itself could
 be the subject matter of cross-examination. Therefore, it was not for the Adjudicating
 Authority to presuppose as to what could be the subject matter of the cross-
 examination and make the remarks as mentioned above. We may also point out that
 on an earlier occasion when the matter came before this Court in Civil Appeal No.
 2216 of 2000, order dated 17-3-2005[2005 (187) E.L.T. A33 (S.C.)] was passed
 remitting the case back to the Tribunal with the directions to decide the appeal on
 merits giving its reasons for accepting or rejecting the submissions. 7. In view the above, we are of the opinion that if the testimony of these two witnesses
 is discredited, there was no material with the Department on the basis of which it
 could justify its action, as the statement of the aforesaid two witnesses was the only
 basis of issuing the show cause notice." 19. On similar facts where the revenue has alleged that the assessee has declared bogus
 LTCG, it was held as follows: b) The JAIPURITAT in the case of VIVEKAGARWAL[ITA No.292/JP/2017]order
 dated 06.04.2018 held as under vide Page 9 Para 3: c) The Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of PREMPAL
 GANDHI[ITA-95-2017(O&M)] dated18.01.2018 at vide Page 3 Para 4 held as
 under: The Court also held the following vide Page 3 Para 5 the following: d) The BENCH "D"OF KOLKATAITAT in the case of GAUTAM PINCHA [ITA
 No.569/Kol/2017]order dated 15.11.2017 held as under vide Page 12 Para 8.1: Further in Page 15 Para 8.5 of the judgment, it held: e) The BENCH "D" OF KOLKATA ITAT in the case of KIRAN KOTHARI HUF [ITA No.
 443/Kol/2017] order dated 15.11.2017 held vide Para 9.3 held as under: g) The BENCH "H" OF MUMBAI ITAT in the case of ARVINDKUMAR JAINHUF[ITA
 No.4682/Mum/2014]order dated 18.09.2017 held as under vide Page 6 Para 8: h)The Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of VIVEK MEHTA [ITA No. 894
 OF2010] order dated 14.11.2011 vide Page 2 Para 3 held as under: j) The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of PCIT vs. Teju Rohit kumar Kapadia order dated
 04.05.2018 upheld the following proposition of law laid down by the Hon'ble Gujrat High
 Court as under: 20. Applying the proposition of law as laid down in the above-mentioned judgments to the
 facts of this case we are bound to consider and rely on the evidence produced by the
 assessee in support of its claim and base our decision on such evidence and not on suspicion
 or preponderance of probabilities. No material was brought on record by the AO to
 controvert the evidence furnished by the assessee. Under these circumstances, we accept the
 evidence filed by the assessee and allow the claim that the income in question is a bona fide
 Long Term Capital Gainarising from the sale of shares and hence exempt from income tax. 21. Under the circumstances and in view of the above discussion, we uphold the contentions
 of the assessee and delete the addition in question." 7. We adopt all this reasoning mutatis mutandis to conclude in this factual backdrop that both
 the lower authorities have erred in treating assessee's LTCG to be bogus. The impugned
 addition(s) of ₹93,19,895/- and ₹4,65,995/1- are deleted." 5. Coming to Revenue's arguments that department had searched / surveyed
various entry operators alleged to have engaged in giving bogus LTCG regarding very
scrip, I put a specific question to Mr.Bhattacherjee as to whether any of the said entry
operators had ever quoted assessee's name or not. The replies is received in negative.
Coupled with this, there is no substance in Revenue's argument that similar
addition(s) stand affirmed in various judicial precedents (supra) for the reason that sec. 68 addition is a factual issue requiring the taxpayer to prove the identity,
genuineness and creditworthiness of the relevant sum credited. I make it clear that all
these assessees have placed sufficient materials on record indicating them to have
derived the impugned LTCG form sale of shares held in M/s Unno Industries Ltd. ITA No.1918-1922/Kol/2018 A.Y 2014-15 Page 29

only. I therefore delete the impugned addition(s) respectively. Brokerage commission
disallowance, if any, thereupon shall automatic stood as a necessary corollary. 6. These assessees' appeals are allowed. 1. आवेदक/Assessee-Smt. Sangita Jhunjhunwala/Shri Sanjeev Jhunjhunwala (HUF)/
 Smt. Nita Jhunjhunwala 77/79, Sri Arobinda Rd, Salika, Howrah-711106/
 Sh. Sanjeev Jhunjhunwala, 61, Ashutosh Mukherjee Lane, Salkia,
 Shri Ashokh Jhunjhunala, 109, Ne.S. Rd. Goyee House, Kolkata-001 2. राज व/Revenue-ITO Wd.(47(2), Govt. Place (W) Kolkata-106/ITO Wd-36(3),
 Poorva,Kolkata-106/ ITO Wd-48(4), 3 Govt. Place (W), Kol-101/
 ITO Wd-34(2), Poorva, Kolkata-7000107 3. संबं'धत आयकर आयु)त / Concerned CIT 4. आयकर आय)
 ु त- अपील / CIT (A) 5. *वभागीय #त#न'ध, आयकर अपील य अ'धकरण कोलकाता / DR, ITAT, Kolkata 6. गाड. फाइल / Guard file. By order/आदे श से,
 /True Copy/
 उप/सहायक पंजीकार
 आयकर अपील य अ'धकरण,
 कोलकाता ।