A government servant commits a sin if he indulges in an act, which affects the security of the State. In fact, any act even of a citizen of this country either open or clandestine of secret information relating to the defence production or similar matters being passed on to the persons inimical to the country is reprehensible. 2.	Doctrine of pleasure embodied in Article 310 (1) of the Constitution of India is a matter of public policy in public interest and for public good. In a Welfare State the task of efficiently implementing the policies of the Government rests with the civil services. As such, public is, therefore, widely interested in the efficiency and integrity of such services. The government servants being paid from the Public Exchequer and are incharge of the public administration for public good, owe a sense of responsibility. The government servants who are inefficient, dishonest, corrupt or have become a security risk should not continue in service and rules made under Article 309 and by Article 311 shall not be allowed to be abused to the detriment of public interest and public good. The aforesaid is a majority view in a Constitution Bench decision of the Apex Court in Union of India v. Tulsi Ram Patel, 1985 (3) SCC 398. 3.	In the above backdrop, applicant by virtue of this OA has impugned Presidential order dated 18.8.1992, whereby invoking Article 310 (1) of the Constitution of India and also Rule 19 (iii) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 in the interest of security of the State, dispensing with holding of enquiry, applicant was dismissed from service. Also assailed is another Presidential order dated 31.3.2006, filed in pursuance of the direction of the High Court of Delhi in its judgment dated 25.1.2006 in WP (C) No.978/1999, where after examining the circumstances of acquittal of applicant in criminal trial, the dismissal has been upheld. 4.	A brief factual matrix transpires that applicant, who was working as Draftsman (L) in Naval Headquarters was implicated in a criminal case FIR No.234/1990, under Sections 3 / 5 / 9 of Official Secrets Act along with nine other persons. During the course of criminal investigation applicant made a confessional disclosure statement on 8.9.1990, whereby it has been admitted that in lieu thereof money he has been passing classified defence documents/designs to Anand Brothers and thereafter to one Mohd. Waris from Pakistan High Commission. As per the instructions for dealing with government servants engaged in subversive activities issued by Department of Personnel and Training (DoP&T) on 1.8.1985 and also the instructions contained in OM dated 26.7.1980 and an amendment carried out, whereby subversive activities include passing of classified information. A note was prepared, detailing the individual conduct and the materials against applicant and other persons who have been found involved in subversive activities, prejudicial to the security of the State, a Committee of Advisors on consideration of the material recommended dismissal under the doctrine of pleasure, enshrined under Article 311 (2) (c) of the Constitution of India and Rule 19 (iii) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965. The aforesaid recommendation has been placed before the Prime Minister and with his consent on attainment of personal satisfaction of the President, the order passed dismissing applicant by holding that it will not be expedient to hold an enquiry was issued. 5.	In the criminal trial against applicant in Sessions case No.14/96 the judgment delivered on 5.7.2001 extended the benefit of doubt to applicant and hence he was acquitted from all the charges. Rests of the accused have been convicted. Applicant preferred an appeal for re-consideration of the material and ultimately filed WP (C) No.978/1999. A decision of the High Court of Delhi dated 25.1.2006 though upheld the dismissal of the applicant, yet the following observations have been made: 6.	In consideration thereof, a Presidential order dated 31.3.2006 upheld the dismissal, which was assailed in RP No.284/2006 by the applicant before the High Court of Delhi, where an order passed on 11.5.2007 with the following observations given liberty to the applicant to seek remedy in accordance with law: 7.	Hence the present OA. 8.	Learned counsel of applicant makes two-fold submissions by placing reliance on a decision of the Apex Court in Bk. Sardari Lal v. Union of India & Others , AIR 1971 SC 1547. It is contended that satisfaction to be arrived at by the President as to non-expediency to hold enquiry has to be a satisfaction arrived at by the President itself and it cannot be delegated to any other authority. Accordingly, by referring to the orders passed by the respondents it is stated that the order, whereby the satisfaction has been arrived at is not by the President but by the conveying authority or by the Prime Minister, which is not a valid compliance and the order passed by the respondents, dismissing the applicant from service is without jurisdiction. Learned counsel has also stated that on acquittal applicant has not been found involved in any activities which are prejudicial and as the only material which the High Powered Committee had considered is confession of the applicant, which was not even considered by the trial court and in its judgment once applicant has been given a clean chit, the very basis of dispensing with the enquiry no more exists and as the decision was based on irrelevant considerations and on a confession, which cannot be relied upon, made before a police officer, it is stated that applicant is liable to be put back in service with all consequences. 9.	Learned counsel has also stated that the direction of the Delhi High Court in Writ Petition obligates the authorities to re-examine the entire case in the light of the findings recorded by the trial court in acquitting the applicant, yet in the review petition (supra) prima facie view taken by the High Court that the judgment of the trial court was not considered in the manner highlighted, which renders the Presidential order passed on 31.3.2006 as nullity in law. 10.	Learned counsel has further stated that the order has been passed without application of mind and contravenes Articles 14 , 16 and 311 of the Constitution of India. Violation of principles of natural justice and deprivation of reasonable opportunity is also one of the grounds raised. 11.	On the other hand, learned counsel of respondents vehemently opposed the contentions and stated that the Apex Court in Union of India and another v. Balbir Singh and another , (1998) 5 SCC 216, placing reliance on a decision of the Apex Court in A.K. Kaul v. Union of India , (1995) 4 SCC 73, in a similar situation where decision to dispense with the enquiry on an act prejudicial to the security of the State, subsequent acquittal has not been found to have made any difference. The aforesaid has no applicability in the present case also. 12.	Shri R.N. Singh states that passing on classified documents of defence to a Pakistani national is prejudicial to the security of the State and after following the due procedure a satisfaction arrived at that it is not expedient to hold an enquiry was based on circumstances and confession of the applicant, which does not suffer from any legal infirmity. 13.	Rejoinder reiterates the pleas taken in the OA. 14.	We have carefully considered the rival contentions of the parties and perused the material on record. 15.	Insofar as the issue of personal satisfaction to be arrived at by the President himself is concerned, a subsequent constitution Bench in Tulsi Ram Patels case (supra) after taking cognizance of Sardari Lals case (supra) ruled as under: 16.	What is discerned is that the satisfaction arrived at on the advice of the Council of Ministers and not being a personal satisfaction shall not constitute any illegality and the act would be within the prerogative and jurisdiction. Moreover, instructions dealing with government servants engaged in subversive activities issued by the DoP&T on 26.7.1980, as amended on 1.5.1985 clearly stipulates that final order stipulates that wherever the Committee of Advisors recommended dismissal under Article 311 (2) (c) of the Constitution of India the recommendation should be submitted to the Prime Minister. As we do not find any fault with the satisfaction arrived at, the contention put-forth by applicant is bereft of merit and is accordingly rejected. 17.	As regards scope of interference in an order passed by the President under the doctrine of pleasure and also under Rule 19 (iii) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, which is akin to Article 311 (2) (c) of the Constitution of India, the decision of the constitution Bench in Tulsi Ram Patel (supra) as to the judicial review is concerned, the law laid down is that an enquiry into the acts, affecting the security of the State, certain matters are not to be made public, including the source of information. In such an event, the interest of security of the State would be prejudicially affected. However, the requirement is that all materials relied upon, on the basis of which the satisfaction of the President is arrived at, have to be produced, including the advice tendered by the Minister to the President. 18. Insofar as review is concerned, the parameters have been laid down by the Apex Court in S.R. Bommai v. Union of India , (1994) 3 SCC 1, by a nine-Judge constitution Bench where judicial review has been directed to be exercised only with the decision-making process. Judicial review must be distinguished from justiciability. The Judiciary has to decide the source, extent, limitations of the power and legitimacy in exercise of the power by an authority. 19.	Though the doctrine of pleasure has been invoked in the instant case, yet as the enquiry has been dispensed with under Rule 19 (iii) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, the Apex Court in A.K. Kaul (supra), in an identical case, placing reliance on S.R. Bommai (supra) laid down certain guidelines with the following observations: 20. It would thus appear that in S.R. Bommai, (1994 (3) SCC 1 : 1994 AIR SCW 2946) (supra) though all the learned Judges have held that the exercise of power under Article 356(1) is subject to judicial review but in the matter of justiciability of the satisfaction of the President, the view of the majority (Pandian, Ahmadi, Verma, Agrawal, Yogeshwar Dayal and Jeevan Reddy,JJ.) is that the principles evolved in Barium Chemicals (AIR 1967 SC 295) (supra) for adjudging the validity of an action based on the subjective satisfaction of the authority created by statute do not, in their entirety, apply to the exercise of a constitutional power under Article 356. On the basis of the judgment of Jeevan Reddy, J., which takes a narrower view than that taken by Sawant, J., it can be said that the view of the majority (Pandian, Kuldip Singh, Sawant, Agrawal and Jeevan Reddy JJ.) is that: 21.	In our considered view, the only exception where interference is permissible in judicial review is when the action is based on malafides or on extraneous or irrelevant grounds. The truth or correctness of the material on substitution of opinion is not the jurisdiction vested in the court. There has to be a legitimacy of the action by the President and Council of Ministers but the Court is not precluded from examining the circumstances on which the satisfaction of the President has been arrived at. 22.	We have seen the records, including the note put up before the Council of Ministers and the Advisory Committee. We have also perused the confessional statement of the applicant and other attending circumstances. Though no cognizance has been made to the criminality of the misconduct committed by the applicant, yet from the circumstances and the confession of the applicant, his indulgence in the activities prejudicial to the security of the State was considered to be a great threat to the country. Therefore, it was decided that it would not be in the interest of the security of the state to produce all the documents required if an enquiry is held and it was desired that his services should be terminated by invoking Article 310 (1) of the Constitution of India readwith Rule 19 (iii) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965. We do not find any malafide on the part of the High Powered Committee and the President, as not only the applicant but also similarly situated others who have been found to have indulged in subversive activities against the State have been meted out a similar treatment. Applicant was neither isolated nor meted out a differential treatment. The exceptions carved out do not exist in the instant case to warrant any interference. The subjective satisfaction arrived at is apt in law. The decision in Balbir Singhs case (supra) fully covers the present issue. 23.	As regards subsequent acquittal of applicant in criminal trial, though in normal circumstances when a government servant is acquitted in a criminal offence, which does not concern the security of the State or involved in espionage activities, the benefit of doubt has been held good for all purposes by the Apex Court in General Manager Uco Bank v. M. Venuranganath , 2007 (14) SCALE 307. Though there is no concept of honourable acquittal under the Criminal Procedure Code , yet an acquittal where some evidence has been found against the accused but not sufficient to hold him guilty in the present scenario where the allegations pertained to espionage, by no stretch of imagination this acquittal could be treated as an obliteration of the offence alleged against applicant or his clean acquittal. Moreover, in the High Court a Single Bench (supra) extensively dealt with the action of the respondents and placing reliance on Balbir Singh (supra) having recorded a finding that the reinstatement of applicant cannot be claimed just because he has been acquitted in the criminal case, a passing reference as to placing reliance on the confessional statement, which was not relied upon in the criminal proceedings, re-examination of the case of applicant vis-`-vis ground of acquittal has been fully complied with by the respondents in their order dated 31.3.2006, where all the circumstances have been considered, yet further recording that the acquittal by the Sessions Court would not deter in any manner the satisfaction arrived at by the President, which was based on sufficient material like confessional statement and circumstantial evidence. The observations made in review is only a liberty given to the applicant and prima facie view as to non-consideration of the judgment in the manner highlighted is not even obiter dicta, it is open for us to examine whether such a consideration has taken place in right perspective or not? From the perusal of the order passed on 31.3.2006, we are satisfied that reexamination has been done on valid consideration and the reasons recorded are apt in law. 24.	No doubt, as per Tulsi Ram Patels case (supra) after the decision has been arrived at to dispense with the enquiry one is not remedy less. The remedy lies by way of departmental appeal but where while dispensing with the enquiry under Article 311 (2) (c) the satisfaction has been arrived at by the President to hold that it will be inexpedient to hold such an enquiry, even right to appeal would not be available. 25.	As regards confessional statement, confession made before a police officer may not be admissible, in criminal proceedings where the Indian Evidence Act of 1872 with all its provisions has strict applicability, yet in the disciplinary proceedings or a decision to dispense with it when a departmental action, which is based on preponderance of probability and once even circumstantial evidence and hear-say evidence are admissible, the confession even made before the police would be admissible, as ruled by the Apex Court in Commissioner of Police v. Narender Singh , 2006 (4) SCALE 161, with the following observations: 25. It is now well-settled that the provisions of the Evidence Act are not applicable in a departmental proceeding. [See Depot Manager, A.P. State Road Transport Corporation v. Mohd. Yousuf Miya and Others (1997) 2 SCC 699; Lalit Popli v. Canara Bank and Others (2003) 3 SCC 583; and N. Rajarathinam v. State of T.N. and Another _ (1996) 10 SCC 371]. 26. In State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Chitra Venkata Rao [(1975) 2 SCC 557], this Court held : It was further held : [See also State of Haryana and Another v. Rattan Singh (1977) 2 SCC 491] 28. The submission of Mr. Krishnamani that there lies a distinction between the provisions of Section 25 and Section 26 of the Evidence Act, in this behalf, may although be correct but the same is not of much significance for the purpose of this case. 29. Section 26 also speaks about confession by an accused while in custody of police. Sections 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act although seek to achieve the same purpose but they operate in somewhat two different fields. Section 25 raises an embargo as regard proof of confession before a police officer. The same need not be in police custody; whereas Section 26 raises a bar as regard admissibility of such confession, if made by an accused in the custody of a police officer although such a confession might have been made before a person who is not a police officer. 29. The policy underlying behind Sections 25 and 26 is to make it a substantive rule of law that confessions whenever and wherever made to the police, or while in the custody of the police to any person whomsoever unless made in the immediate presence of a magistrate, shall be presumed to have been obtained under the circumstances mentioned in Section 24 and, therefore, inadmissible, except so far as is provided by Section 27 of the Act. 30 A confession would mean incriminating statement made to the police suggesting inference of the commission of the crime and it, therefore, is confined to the evidences to be adduced in a court of law. If the provisions of the Evidence Act are not attracted in a departmental proceeding, a fortiori Sections 25 and 26 shall not apply. 26.	Having regard to the above, reliance on confessional statement of applicant by the Committee and its further reliance on the satisfaction arrived at by the President does not suffer from any legal infirmity. 27.	As regards subsequent acquittal, as the earlier action is not based on the criminal case but also other circumstances and factors, which are not found to be irrelevant or vitiated by malafides, the action of the respondents cannot be found fault with in law. 28.	In the result, for the foregoing reasons, OA fails, as bereft of merit and is accordingly dismissed. No costs.