1. Heard. 2 APL.1640-2025..JUDGMENT.odt 2. ADMIT. Heard finally by the consent of learned

Senior Counsel for the Applicant and learned APP for the Non-

applicant/State. 3. The present Application is preferred by the

Applicant for quashing of the First Information Report ("FIR" for

short) in connection with Crime No.338/2007 registered with

Police Station Sitabuldi, District Nagpur for the offence

punishable under Sections 406, 408, 409, 467, 468, 471, 420,

201, 120B, 109 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code

(" IPC " for short), Section 65 of the Information Technology Act,

2000 and Sections 3 and 4 of the Maharashtra Protection of

Interest of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act, 1999

(for short " MPID Act ") and consequent proceeding arising out of

the same bearing Spl. Case No.14/2019. 4. The crime was registered on the basis of a report

lodged by the Complainant Madan Shende, District Special

Auditor (Class-1), Cooperative Societies, Nagpur. As per the

allegations, Samta Sahakari Bank Limited, Branch Bagwaghar,

Dharampeth, Nagpur is a Cooperative Bank. As per the direction

of the Commissioner, Pune, audit inspection was conducted for
 3 APL.1640-2025..JUDGMENT.odt

the period 1997 to 2007 on a particular 10 points. It is revealed

that, the Bank President, Vice President, Board of Directors,

Bank Officers and Bank employees of the said Bank have

committed fraud with collusion with the loan holders by

committing huge type of illegalities, irregularities and by way of

forgery and fabrication of documents and thereby committed

fraud to the tune of Rs. 145,60,57,332/- during the above said

period. It is alleged that, the present Applicant is also involved

in the fraud, fabrication and forgery. As per the audit report, the

Applicant has taken CC Loan of Rs. 10 Lakhs in the name of

Tejaman International Firm by providing incomplete

information and documents to the Bank which was not as per

the provisions of Reserve Bank of India norms. He has

mortgaged Plot Nos. 7, 8 and 9, Nazul Khasra No. 79, Mouza

Jaripatka House No. 123, Ward No.61, which is not owned by

him but it is in the name of the Vinodkumar Jain. Though the

Applicant has executed the equitable mortgage on the basis of

power of attorney of Vinodkumar Jain, the said equitable

mortgage is illegal and contrary to the provisions of law. The

Applicant was having knowledge that he is not able to mortgage

the property which is standing in the name of Vinodkumar Jain,
 4 APL.1640-2025..JUDGMENT.odt

still he has executed the same, which shows the intention of the

present Applicant to deceive and grab the depositors money. As

the crime is committed by the Directors and Chairman of the

Bank by entering into the conspiracy with various loan holders,

and therefore, the offence is also registered under the Special

Act of MPID, which protects the interest of the depositors. As

per the allegation, the Applicant is not a mere borrower of loan

amount but the documentary evidence shows that the intention

of the Applicant was to deceive and grab the depositors money.

On the basis of the said report Police have registered the crime

against the present Applicant. During investigation, the

Investigating Officer has recorded the relevant statements of the

witnesses and after completion of the investigation, the

charge-sheet was submitted against the present Applicant. 5. Heard Mr. Singh, learned Senior Counsel for the

Applicant, who submitted that, the Applicant has already

deposited the entire loan amount and No Dues Certificate is

already issued by the Bank in favour of the present Applicant.

Thus, the dispute between the Bank and the present Applicant is

already settled. The present Applicant is the proprietor of
 5 APL.1640-2025..JUDGMENT.odt

Tejaman International which is a proprietary firm. He applied

for loan of Rs. 10 Lakhs in the form of cash credit limit in the

name of his proprietary firm. The Bank has scrutinized his

application and sanctioned the loan of Rs. 10 Lakhs vide

Resolution after thorough scrutiny of loan application and the

documents. The Applicant has already repaid the entire amount

of loan, and therefore, no offence is made out against the

present Applicant. He submitted that, as far as the fabrication of

the documents is concerned, the allegation is not substantiated

by any documents, and therefore, no prima facie case is made

out against the present Applicant, as far as the offence

punishable under Sections 406 , 408 , 409 , 467 , 468 , 471 of IPC

are concerned. He submitted that, for the constitution of the

offence punishable under Section 420 of IPC, the intention since

inception is required, which is absent in the present case. In

view of that, the Application deserves to be allowed. 6. Per contra, Mr. Jawade, learned APP for the Non-

applicant/State, strongly opposed the said contention and

invited my attention towards the fact that, during investigation

it revealed that the Applicant has obtained the loan and against
 6 APL.1640-2025..JUDGMENT.odt

the said loan he mortgaged a property which is in the name of

V.K. Jain admeasuring 3000 sq.ft., which is out of Hindu

Undivided property. No consent of other coparceners was

obtained. Despite having the knowledge that the said property

cannot be mortgaged with the Bank, the Applicant with an

intention to deceive the Bank has mortgaged the said property.

It further revealed that, M/s Vinsha Investment and Leasing has

mortgaged the said property and the same property was

mortgaged by the Applicant with the Bank on the basis of power

of attorney. Thus, the same property was mortgaged twice for

two different loans. This aspect is sufficient to show the

intention of the present Applicant. 7. He submitted that, the Applicant has committed

illegalities, fraud by not submitting, producing the financial

statements, stock register and other documents to the Bank as

per the loan condition. Thus, the intention of the present

Applicant reveals from the single fact that, the property which

was already mortgaged was again mortgaged by him which is

also not owned by him and of a Hindu Joint Family. The

intention can be gathered from the said circumstances. The loan
 7 APL.1640-2025..JUDGMENT.odt

amount which was sanctioned to the present Applicant is a

public money and depositors are duped due to the said fraud

committed by the present Applicant by entering into the

conspiracy with the Board of Directors and Chairman of the said

Bank. In view of that, the Application deserves to be rejected. 8. Learned Senior Counsel for the Applicant, placed

reliance on the decision of Gian Singh Vs. State of Punjab ,

reported in ( 2012) 10 SCC 303 & Central Bureau of

Investigation, ACB, Mumbai Vs. Narendra Lal Jain & Ors. ,

(2014) 5 SCC 364. The main contention of the learned Senior

Counsel for the Applicant is that, now there is already a

settlement between the Bank and the present Applicant. The

Applicant has already deposited the money and no money is due

from him. In view of that, the Application deserves to be

allowed. 9. In the case of Gian Singh (supra), the learned Apex

Court has considered the aspect of settlement and observed that

the position emerges from the above discussion can be

summarized as under: 11. In the light of the above observations and in the

light of the parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in

the case of State of Harayana & Ors. Vs. Ch. Bhajan Lal & Ors. ,

1992 AIR 604, which reads as under: (2) Where the allegations in the first information report
and other materials, if any, accompanying the FIR do not
disclose a cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by
police officers under Section 156(1) of the Code except
under an order of a Magistrate within the purview of
Section 155(2) of the Code. (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR
or complaint and the evidence collected in support of the
same do not disclose the commission of any offence and
make out a case against the accused. (4) Where, the allegations in the FIR do not constitute a
cognizable offence but constitute only a non-cognizable
offence, no investigation is permitted by a police officer
without an order of a Magistrate as contemplated under
Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are
so absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of which
no prudent person can ever reach a just conclusion that
there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the
accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any of
the provisions of the Code or the concerned Act (under
which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to the institution
and continuance of the proceedings and/or where there is
a specific provision in the Code or the concerned Act,
providing efficacious redress for the grievance of the
aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended
with mala fide and/or where the proceeding is maliciously
instituted with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance
on the accused and with a view to spite him due to private
and personal grudge." 11 APL.1640-2025..JUDGMENT.odt 12. It is to be seen whether merely because the

Applicant has deposited the amount i.e. loan amount he is to be

exonerated from the charges and FIR requires to be quashed.

There is no dispute that Samta Sahakari Bank Limited on

11.03.1993 has issued a letter to the present Applicant that he

has already deposited the amount with interest and nothing is

to be recovered from him. On perusal of the entire investigation

especially the charge-sheet shows that on 14.10.2009 the notice

was issued to the present Applicant for repayment under the

one time settlement. The Clearance Certificate is also issued by

the Bank dated 08.10.2009 and the said Clearance Certificate

shows that the entire amount against the loan is received from

the present Applicant. The FIR came to be lodged on the basis of

the audit conducted by the Complainant and during

investigation it revealed to the Investigating Officer that the

present Applicant has obtained the loan from the Samta

Sahakari Bank Limited in the name of his firm Tejaman

International Firm and the amount of Rs. 36,08,524/- is due.

While obtaining the loan he has given the false documents and

false information to the Bank and the Bank officials and the

Directors have also not verified the same. He has mortgaged the
 12 APL.1640-2025..JUDGMENT.odt

Plot Nos. 7, 8 & 9 of Khasra No. 79 situated at Jaripatka which

is not on his name but it was in the name of Vinodkumar Jain.

The said Vinodkumar Jain is also not the sole owner of the said

property and it is a Hindu Joint Family property. He has also not

given the stock statement which is required to be given by him

when he has obtained the loan. 13. It further revealed during the investigation that, the

plot which was in the name of said Vinodkumar Jain was

already mortgaged for the another loan. Thus, one property was

mortgaged for the two loans. It further revealed that, for the

purpose of his business he has obtained the loan from the Bank

but he has invested the amount which obtained by way of loan

in M/s Vinsha Investment and Leasing. The Bank statement also

shows the same. Thus, the entire investigation papers discloses

that during audit which was conducted on a particular 10

points, it is revealed that the Bank President, Vice President

Board of Directors, Bank officials and Bank employees with

collusion committed huge type of illegalities, irregularities and

were involved in the fraud of Rs. 145,60,57,332/-. The accused

Applicant and other co-accused were involved in committing
 13 APL.1640-2025..JUDGMENT.odt

fraud, fabrication, forgery in total 12 group loans and 15

personal huge loans. The present Applicant has also obtained

the CC Loan of Rs. 10 Lakhs. He has mortgaged the property

which is not on his name but the property which was already

mortgaged. Thus, one property was mortgaged against the two

loan accounts. The Audit Report further discloses that, various

illegalities committed by the present Applicant and the other co-

accused. 14. The present Application is filed merely on the

ground that, there is a settlement between the Bank and now

the amount of Bank is already paid, and therefore, the offence is

not made out against the present Applicant. 15. It is not in dispute that, while exercising the

jurisdiction under Section 482 of Cr.P.C., this Court is under the

obligation to see whether the case of the Applicant covers under

the parameters laid down in catena of decisions. 16. In the case of Central Bureau of Investigation Vs.

Jagjit Singh , (2013) 10 SCC 686 , the Hon'ble Apex Court
 14 APL.1640-2025..JUDGMENT.odt

observed that offences involving bank fraud affect society at

large, observed as follows: "15. The debt which was due to the Bank was recovered by
 the Bank pursuant to an order passed by the Debts
 Recovery Tribunal. Therefore, it cannot be said that there is
 a compromise between the offender and the victim. The
 offences when committed in relation with banking
 activities including offences under Sections 420 / 471 IPC
 have harmful effect on the public and threaten the well-
 being of the society. These offences fall under the category
 of offences involving moral turpitude committed by public
 servants while working in that capacity. Prima facie, one
 may state that the bank is the victim in such cases but, in
 fact, the society in general, including customers of the
 bank is the sufferer. In the present case, there was neither
 an allegation regarding any abuse of process of any court
 nor anything on record to suggest that the offenders were
 entitled to secure the order in the ends of justice." 17. It is observed by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the

above case that, the High Court while exercising jurisdiction

under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. did not consider these vital facts

and quashed the proceedings merely on the basis of alleged one

time settlement. The blanket order quashing the charge-sheet in

its entirety would have the effect of terminating the prosecution

against the Bank Manager as well, against whom prosecution

sanction has been granted. It is held that the Economic offences

against banks are "social wrongs" with "immense societal

impact" that travel far beyond personal or private wrongs. It is
 15 APL.1640-2025..JUDGMENT.odt

emphasized by the Apex Court that quashing such proceedings

involving a special statute like the PC Act would have grave

consequences for society at large. The inherent power of the

High Court to quash proceedings based on a settlement is

distinct from the power of compounding under Section 320 CrPC. While cases with a "predominatingly civil flavour" may be

quashed, those involving heinous crimes, public servants, or

special statutes like the PC Act do not provide a basis for

quashing despite a compromise restored criminal proceedings

against its directors in a loan fraud case involving

approximately 52.5 crore. 18. Here in the present case also, the audit report shows

that the Bank Officers, the Board of Directors and Bank

employees by joining hands with various business entities on

the basis of false information and forged documents, sanctioned

the loan and the said loan amount was not recovered and

thereby committed a fraud of Rs. 145,60,57,332/-. The

involvement as far as the present Applicant is concerned, which

also reveals from the investigation papers that he has also given

a false information, the object for which the loan was obtained
 16 APL.1640-2025..JUDGMENT.odt

was not used for the said purpose. After obtaining the loan, the

information which he was under obligation to supply to the

Bank was not supplied. The property which was already

mortgaged against the different loan accounts, the same

property which was not in his name but it was in the name of

Vinodkumar Jain was mortgaged. The said property was also

not in the sole name of said Vinodkumar Jain but it was a Hindu

Joint Family property and by committing all these illegalities,

the loan was sanctioned to the present Applicant. 19. Admittedly, the loan amount which was sanctioned

out of depositors money, is a public money. Considering the

entire audit report which shows the manner in which the fraud

was committed and the involvement of the present Applicant

reveals, therefore merely because he has deposited the amount

under the one time settlement scheme, is not sufficient to quash

the offence against the present Applicant considering the

liability of the present Applicant to pay the amount. Moreover,

the dispute involved was not between the private parties but it

was between the present Applicant and the prosecution. The

prosecution has been initiated not only under the offences
 17 APL.1640-2025..JUDGMENT.odt

 punishable under Sections 406 , 420 of IPC but under Sections

 467 , 468 and 471 of IPC. Therefore, it is not a fit case to quash

 the proceedings considering the involvement of the present

 Applicant in the alleged offence. In view of that, the Application

 deserves to be rejected. Accordingly, I proceed to pass the

 following order. ORDER

 i. Criminal Application is rejected. 20. Pending application/s, if any, shall stand disposed of

 accordingly. (URMILA JOSHI PHALKE, J.)

 S.D.Bhimte

Signed by: Mr.S.D.Bhimte
Designation: PA To Honourable Judge
Date: 26/02/2026 16:08:14