1. This batch of writ petitions (which are forty-eight in number) urges to

 declare Notification/S.O. 177 dated 15th April 2022 as ultra vires to the

 Constitution. Ancillary relief(s) are also being sought in these petitions.

 These petitions are taken one by one. WP(C) no.3250/2023 Kirmania Model High School Batwina v. UT of J&K and others Mr. Z.A.Shah, Senior Advocate with Mr Asif Feroz Bhat, Advocate for petitioner
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 2. Let me first take up the writ petition, WP(C) no.3250/2023, which is

 titled as Kirmania Model High School Batwina, Ganderbal v. Union

 Territory of J&K and others, in which the following reliefs are prayed

 to be granted: 2.1. Reply has been filed by the respondents. Their preliminary objection is

 about maintainability of the writ petition. According to them, policy

 decision of the Government is not open to challenge in a writ petition.

 As regards facts, it is stated by respondents that J&K School Education

 Act, enacted in the year 2002, provide for derecognition of school(s)

 under Section 16 thereof. J&K School Education Rules were issued in

 the year 2010, so as to implement various provisions of the Act of 2002.

 About impugned S.O. 177 of 2022, it is contended by respondents that

 in exercise of powers conferred by Section 29 of the Act of 2002,

 certain amendments have been made in the Rules of 2010. It is also

 contended that action taken by respondents is within their ambit of the

 Act of 2002 and amendments carried in the Rules of 2010 are not

 illegal. The respondents also contend that the intend of School

 Education Department is only to get the land record/document verified 3 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 by concerned Revenue authorities in order to check that private schools

 are having valid land documents and are legally entitled to run such

 private school and the buildings/lands are free from all legal

 encumbrances. It is also submission of respondents that amendments

 carried in terms of impugned notification is to help in running academic

 sessions of the students in a smooth way and in case of Revenue

 authorities taking over the possession of the State land from illegal

 occupants, the private schools shall not be disturbed and their land

 record shall be verified by recognition/affiliation authorities for the

 larger interest of the students studying in these private school/

 institutions. Besides, such a step will also check corruption and

 mushrooming growth of private schools and ensure transparency in the

 education sector. 2.2. I have heard learned counsel for parties and considered the matter.

2.3. As regards the case in hand, viz. WP(C) no.3250/2023, it is contention

 of petitioner that petitioner-school was initially started in the year 1984.

 It had been in terms of Government Order no.1401-Edu of 1993 dated

 28th July 1993, that recognition was granted to petitioner-school up to

 5th primary. By Government Order no.1444-Edu of 1994 dated 6th

 October 1994, recognition was granted up to 8th class. In 2001,

 recognition/ affiliation to run classes up to 9th and 10th/10+2 stage for a

 period of three years was approved by Sub-Committee of Recognition

 Committee of J&K Board of School Education. This was followed by

 issuance of Government Order no.703-Edu of 2004 dated 26th August

 2004, according sanction to grant of recognition/affiliation up to class

 10th. Further extension to recognition to petitioner-school was granted 4 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 vide Government Order no.846-Edu of 2013 dated 24th October 2013

up to Class 10th. Petitioner would contend that in terms of Order

no.347-Aff of 2017 dated 21st April 2017, issued by J&K Board of

School Education, affiliation was granted to petitioner-school for a

period of five years from October 2016 to October 2021. While

affiliation/upgradation was approved and granted vide Government

Order no.184-Edu of 2017 dated 21st August 2017, petitioner-school

was also granted such affiliation/ recognition inasmuch as petitioner-

school figures at serial no.277 in the said government order. In terms of

Order no.125-DSEK of 2002 dated 1st February 2022, Managing

Committee of petitioner-school was approved. It is also contended by

petitioner that Tehsildar, Wakoora, vide letter dated 6th September 2023

informed J&K BOSE of the fact that 02 Kanals 16 Marlas and 7 ½

Sirsai under Survey no.810, 811 min, 812 is recorded in the name of

petitioner-school through Public Welfare Society Trust, Baghwanpora

and to this extent Mutation no.1844 dated 10th May 2023 has been

effected. Tehsildar Wakoora is also stated to have reported that

petitioner-school was functional on Kahcharie land bearing no.725/1 of

Estate Batwina on 20th May 2022 and at that time, no proprietary land

was recorded in the name of petitioner-school, but, in the year 2023,

Managing Committee of petitioner-school purchased proprietary land

for the school which stands transferred in its name on 10 th May 2023.

Petitioner-school is stated to have started construction of building on a

purchased proprietary land. Reference has also been made by petitioner

to communication dated 25th October 2023 of Naib Tehsildar, who

informed Tehsildar that petitioner-school is located on Mahfooz 5 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 Kahcharie but has been constructed by local villagers of Batwins

 decades ago and affairs of the school are run by Public Welfare Society,

 Baghwanpora and that a resolution was passed by Local Panchayat to

 the effect that Kahcharie land, on which school was established, be let

 out on lease basis to management of petitioner-school. 625 students are

 said to be on the rolls of petitioner-school. Petitioner has also relied

 upon a record-note to show that Deputy Commissioner, Ganderbal,

 held a meeting on 14th September 2023 in which the Committee found

 the case of petitioner-school genuine and, therefore, recommended for

 permission under change of land use after fulfilling conditions laid

 down in NOCs issued by line-departments. 2.4. It may be mentioned in the above backdrop that petitioner-school has

 been started in the year 1984. It has been recognized in the year 1993

 up to 5th primary and up to 8th in 1994. At that relevant point of time,

 the Primary Education Act , Samvat 1986, and J&K Private Educational

 Institutions (Regulation and Control) Act, 1967 and J&K Education

 Act, 1984 were in existence. These three Acts have been repealed by

 coming into being of the J&K School Education Act, 2002 (for short

 "Act of 2002"). Section 2 (f) of Act of 2002 says that "educational

 agency" means any individual, society, trust or body of persons

 registered with the government and permitted to establish, run or

 maintain any private school. Section 2(g) provides that "existing

 school" means any government school or government aided or

 recognized school established before commencing of the Act of 2002

 and continuing as such at the time of such commencement. "Private

 School" is defined under Section 2(l) , which says that it means a school 6 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 established, run or maintained by any educational agency and

 recognized by the Government. Section 2 (n) says a "school" means an

 educational institution primarily meant for imparting education up to

 and including the higher secondary level and includes such institutions

 as are meant for providing instructions and training for teacher and also

 includes lands, buildings, playgrounds, hostels and movable properties

 such as furniture, books, apparatus, map and equipment, owned by and

 used for the activities of the educational institution. Section 3 of the Act

 of 2002 provides that it shall apply to all the schools in J&K. Section 5 of the Act of 2002 envisions establishment of schools by the

 government and permission to any educational agency to establish and

 maintain private schools. Section 11 says that no private school shall

 be established, run or maintained without permission in writing of the

 government of competent authority and that the government shall

 prescribe procedure to be followed for grant of permission to establish,

 run or maintain private schools. 2.5. When we peruse Section 12 of the Act of 2002, it envisages that only

 such private schools as are recognized shall be permitted to function. Section 13 says that no private school shall be managed and run by any

 person other than an educational agency. Section 15 of the Act of 2002

 provides that every private school shall have to seek prior permission

 of competent authority before adding any higher classes and any higher

 classes so added in a school shall require recognition by the

 government. Section 16 provides that the government may derecognize

 any private school if in its opinion functioning of such a school is not

 in accordance with the provisions of the Act and rules made thereunder. 7 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 However, no such order of derecognition shall be passed by the

 Government unless reasonable opportunity is provided to educational

 agency in this regard. 2.6. Section 18 of the Act of 2002 stipulates that any property or asset

 owned, held or acquired by any person for or on behalf of any private

 school, shall be deemed to be property of the educational agency

 notwithstanding that such property stands in the name of any

 individual. Section 29 provides that the government may make rules for

 the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of the Act of 2002

 including the matters which relate to the provisions of compulsory

 education; establishment and maintenance of schools; grant of

 permission to set up private schools; recognition of private schools;

 giving of grant-in-aid to schools; levy and collection of fees in private

 schools; manner in which accounts, registers and records shall be

 maintained and auditing of accounts of private schools; returns,

 statements and reports to be submitted by schools; inspection of

 schools; constitution and functioning of Local Area Education

 Committees; standards of education and courses of study; procedure for

 admission of students in schools; and any other matter which is or may

 be required to be prescribed under the Act. 2.7. It is in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 29 of the Act of

 2002 that the Government of J&K made the J&K School Education

 Rules, 2010 (hereinafter referred to as the "Rules of 2010") and notified

 it vide Notification/SRO 123 dated 18th March 2010. Its Rule 4 gives

 the procedure for registration of the private schools. It makes it known

 that upon receipt of the application for opening a private school, which 8 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 should be accompanied by no objection certificate from the Municipal

 Corporation/Committee, Panchayat, LAWDA or any other local body

 and/or any institution concerned as the case may be; traffic police;

 public works department (from the safety standpoint) and fire and

 emergency service department, the competent authority or any

 official/s authorized by him for the purpose shall within 15 days from

 the date of receipt of the application, refer the matter for spot inspection

 of the said institution or for examination of the project/proposal vis-à-

 vis the norms of infrastructure, equipment, staff and other requirements

 as laid down under Rules 5, 6 and 11 of the Rules of 2010, to an

 inspector to be appointed by him who shall not be below the rank of

 Joint Director in case of an ETT/NIT institution; Principal of a

 Government Higher Secondary School in case of High and Higher

 Secondary Schools; Headmaster of a Government High School in case

 of Elementary Schools (i.e., school running upto 8th); and Master of a

 Government in case of Pre-Primary Institution. The Inspector is

 required to submit the report to competent authority within a period of

 30 days from the date of his appointment. Rules 6 says that private

 schools, seeking permission/ recognition or extension/renewal thereof,

 shall be required to have the requisite infrastructure and facilities

 including physical facilities and teaching and other staff as per the

 details enumerated in Rule 6. 2.8. As can be seen in the case in hand, in terms of impugned S.O. 177 dated

 15th April 2022, certain amendments have been made to the Rules of

 2010. In Rule 4, after Sub-Rule (2A), the Rule (2B) has been added,

 which provides that the application shall be accompanied by no- 9 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 objection certificate regarding land use issued by the Revenue

 Department, Government of J&K; documents relating to possession of

 the land required for building, playground, etc. in case applicant is

 owner or a lease deed with a minimum period of 10 years, in case a

 private school is proposed to be run in a rented land/building; and

 documents as mentioned in clause (i) and (ii) in case of private schools

 already established shall be produced within a period as may be

 prescribed by the Government. In Rule, Sub-Rule (3), after clause (b),

 the clause (c) has been added which provides that a committee as may

 be constituted by the Director, School Education concerned, may

 inspect the land records of all private schools at any time.

2.9. In the case in hand, it is contention of petitioner that petitioner-school

 is protected by the decision delivered by the Supreme Court in Jagpal

 Singh v. State of Punjab and others , (2011) 11 SCC 396, for petitioner-

 school has been allowed by local community to use the land for

 purposes of the school which is under public interest.

2.10. The Supreme Court in Jagpal Singh (supra) has directed all the State

 Governments that they should prepare schemes for eviction of illegal/

 unauthorized occupants of Gram Sabha/Gram Panchayat/ Poramboke/

 Shamilat land and these must be restored to the Gram Sabha/Gram

 Panchayat for common use of villagers of the village and for this

 purpose, the Chief Secretaries of all State Governments/ Union

 Territories of India have been directed to do the needful, taking the help

 of other senior officers of the Government and the scheme should

 provide for speedy eviction of such illegal occupant, after giving him a

 show cause notice and a brief hearing. Long duration of such illegal 10 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 occupation or huge expenditure in making constructions thereon or

 political connections must not be treated as a justification for condoning

 the illegal act or for regularizing the illegal possession. Regularization

 should only be permitted in exceptional cases, e.g., where lease has

 been granted under some Government notification to landless labourers

 or members of Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes, or where there is

 already a school, dispensary or other public utility on the land.

2.11. A question has been put by petitioner "whether amendment carried out

 in the Education Law, making existence of a private unaided school on

 Kahcharie etc. land as illegal, is irrational, arbitrary, or suffers from

 non-application of mind, or is under inclusive". The clear-cut directions of the Supreme Court in Jagpal Singh (supra) deprecate the practice of usage of Kahcharie land for any other

 purpose. Kahcharie land is meant for a particular purpose, that is, for

 common purpose, which cannot be permitted to be deviated. It is true

 that regularization in exceptional cases might have been given but that

 does relate to landless labourers or members of SC/ST or where there

 is already a school, dispensary or other public utility on the land. With respect to the petitioner-school, it cannot be said to be a

 public/government school but a "private school" and, therefore, does

 not come and fall within the ambit of exceptional cases.

2.12. Another question raised by the petitioner is "whether the existence of

 the school infrastructure on Kahcharie land is relevant for the purposes

 of carrying out the educational programme and activities". This question is somehow alike to the above question. A private

 school in any manner cannot be treated and deemed as a government 11 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 school. So, existence of a private school infrastructure on Kahcharie

 land if permitted to operate, run, and continue, will only encourage

 unscrupulous elements to make use/misuse of such instances/examples

 to grab Kahcharie / common land. 2.13. Third question put by the petitioner is "whether educational activity is

 independent of the status of the land on which infrastructure of the

 school exists and, therefore, cannot be made a condition for grant of

 affiliation or recognition". It is worthwhile to mention here that the instant question has

 already been answered while squaring-off above two questions. One cannot close his eyes to the fact that the rampant growth of

 the private schools is an investment, which attracts everyone as it has

 become a lucrative business venture, although those private schools

 produce best of best. So, the conditions being imposed by the

 Governments for establishment, recognition, affiliation etc. cannot be

 termed or labelled as irrational, arbitrary or unreasonable.

2.14. Fourth question raised by the petitioner is "whether the use of the

 Kahcharie/Shamilat Deh/State/Auqaf etc. lands for running the private

 unaided schools, otherwise established by the local village community

 in the interest of the children of the village and of adjoining areas, is in

 public interest". It may be mentioned that all religions say that education is must

 for human being. If an individual wants to do a good for human being,

 let him/her establish a school on his/her proprietary land or on a self-

 acquired land and provide free education. 12 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 It is startling that the land meant for grazing and/or common

 purpose is being utilized by certain individuals for personal/private

 purpose. Such acts should be dealt with iron hands. Another answer to the present question is also that why private

 schools; why not a government schools on Kahcharie/State land.

2.15. Another question made by the petitioner is "whether the recognition

 and affiliation of the private unaided schools for last several decades

 has the effect of the tacit consent of the Government authorizing

 establishment of these schools on Kahcharie etc. land to be lawful and,

 therefore, under no circumstances affiliation and recognition can be

 denied to these schools". Answer to this question is that establishment of private schools

 on Kachcharie/common land ought not to have been permitted

 muchless allowed to continue by the then

 authorities/functionaries/departments and, therefore, such practice

 should be arrested by the Government. Grant of affiliation/recognition to private school or schools,

 running, operating and functioning on Kahcharie land, should be

 stopped by the Government. The State holds landed property in trust and for ultimate benefit

 of its citizens in general; thus, the State/Government is required to save,

 protect and preserve the Kahcharie/State land for the purpose for which

 it is meant for. So, a particular party cannot be permitted to reap special

 benefit from such property at the expense of the interest of the people

 at large. It was expected of respondents that they would have borne this 13 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 salutary principle in mind while bestowing any benefit upon an

individual school. The issue regarding discretionary allotment of plots by the

Government was considered by the Supreme Court in Akhil Bharatiya

Upbhokta Congress v. State of Madhya Pradesh and others , reported

in (2011) 5 SCC 29. The Supreme Court was called upon to consider

allotment of a plot without issuing advertisement or adopting a

procedure consistent with the doctrine of equality so as to enable other

similar organizations/institutions to participate in the process of

allotment. It was opined that the State and/or its agencies/

instrumentalities cannot give largesse to any person according to the

sweet will and whims of the political entities. The transparent method

is to be followed in terms of a well-defined policy. There cannot be any policy muchless a rational policy of allotting

land on the basis of applications made by individuals, bodies,

organizations or institutions de hors an invitation or advertisement by

the State or its agency/ instrumentality. By entertaining applications

made by individuals, organizations or institutions for allotment of land

or for grant of any other type of largesse the State cannot exclude other

eligible persons from lodging competing claim. Any allotment of land

or grant of other form of largesse by the State or its

agencies/instrumentalities by treating the exercise as a private venture

is liable to be treated as arbitrary, discriminatory and an act of

favoritism and/or nepotism violating the soul of the equality clause

embodied in Article 14 of the Constitution. Finally, allotment of plot in 14 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 favour of the allottee was quashed by the Supreme Court. The relevant

paragraphs thereof are advantageous to be reproduced below: 2.16. Another question that has come up in writ petition is "whether

 amendments carried out in the Educational Law are prospective in

 nature and, therefore, have no application to the pre-existing private

 unaided schools". 2.16.1. Answer to this question is that it depends upon aims and objectives of

 every law. At times, some laws have prospective effect; some have

 retrospective effect; and some have retroactive effect.

2.16.2. Making new laws, incorporating amendments to the existing laws and

 repealing the old laws are need of hour. When there had not been

 computers, we could not have thought of Cyber Laws, Information

 Technology Laws. However, when the boom of the computers with the

 internet webbed the whole Globe, the unscrupulous elements

 simultaneously started committing the hacking, spamming, phishing,

 etc. causing financial loss, leakage of data, affecting commoner's

 privacy, so it was thought imperative to legislate Cybersecurity Laws,

 Information Technology Laws etc.

2.16.3. As regards the case in hand, if the petitioner's contention is accepted

 that the amendment has prospective effect, it would amount to opening

 a flood gate and giving freehand to unscrupulous elements to grab

 Kahcharie/State land and show that Kahcharie/common land is in their 16 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 possession since time immemorial. Such a practice and/or notion is

 unacceptable. The Government of J&K should not be loath and inert in

 implementation of the laws. 2.16.4. The concept of prospective effect, retrospective effect, and retroactive

 effect of rules pertains to how the legal provisions or changes in the law

 are applied concerning the events or the actions which occurred before

 or after the law was enacted. Qua prospective effect, a rule or law with

 prospective effect applies only to events or actions occurring after the

 rule or law has come into force. It does not affect any actions or

 situations that occurred before the rule or law was enacted. Most new

 laws are enacted with prospective effect to ensure they do not disturb

 settled expectations or existing rights and obligations. For instance, if a

 new tax law is passed, it will generally apply to financial transactions

 occurring after the date of its enactment. 2.16.5. Concerning retrospective effect, a rule or law with retrospective effect

 applies to events or actions that occurred before the law was enacted.

 This means it affects past events as if the law were in effect at that

 earlier time. In India, retrospective laws are generally not favoured

 because they can disrupt settled legal positions and create uncertainty.

 However, the legislature has the power to enact laws with retrospective

 effect if it explicitly states so. An example might be a law altering tax

 liabilities for past financial years. Courts will often scrutinize such laws

 to ensure they do not violate constitutional principles, such as the right

 to be heard or due process. 2.16.6. In relation to "retroactive effect", term it is sometimes used

 interchangeably with "retrospective effect", but it can also refer to a 17 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 broader application which might impact past, present, and future

 events. It essentially involves applying a legal provision to scenarios

 from before the law was enacted, but with broader consequences. The

 Courts typically interpret retroactive effect to mean any impact on past

 actions. However, the precise scope can vary based on the context and

 wording of the legislation. 2.16.7. In the backdrop of above, the legislative power to make law with

 retrospective effect is well recognized. It is also well settled that though

 the legislature has no power to sit over the Court's judgement or usurp

 the judicial power, but it has subject to competence to make law, power

 to remove the basis which led to the Court's decision. The legislature

 has power to enact laws with retrospective effect but has no power to

 change a judgement of the Court of law either retrospectively or

 prospectively. The Constitution clearly defines the limits of legislative

 power and judicial power. None can encroach upon the field covered

 by the other. The laws made by the legislature have to conform to the

 constitutional provisions. Every sovereign legislature possesses the

 right to make the retrospective legislation. The power to make laws

 includes power to give it retrospective effect. 2.16.8. In Virender Singh Hooda v. State of Haryana , AIR 2005 SC 137, the

 Supreme Court did not accept the contention of the writ petitioners

 therein that vested rights cannot be taken away by retrospective

 legislation. However, it was observed that taking away of such rights

 would be impermissible if there is violation of Articles 14 , 16 or any

 other constitutional provision. 18 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 2.16.9. Retrospective or retroactive law takes away or impairs vested or

 accrued rights acquired under existing laws. A retroactive law takes

 away or impairs vested rights acquired under existing laws, or creates

 a new obligation, imposes a new duty, or attaches a new disability, in

 respect to transactions or considerations already past. It is necessary

 that the legislature should be able to cure inadvertent defects in statutes

 or their administration by making what has been aptly called small

 repairs. Moreover, the individual who claims that vested right has

 arisen from the defect is seeking a windfall since had the legislature's

 or administrator's action had the effect it was intended to and could

 have had, no such right would have arisen. Thus, the interest in

 retroactive curing of such a defect in administration of the Government

 outweighs the individual's interest in benefiting from the defect.

2.16.10. Impugned in the present writ petition and the concomitant petitions is

 S.O. 177, which reads as under: 2. In rule 4, sub rule (3), after clause (b), the following clause shall be
 added, namely: 3. Rule 9 shall be omitted. 19 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 "4. In Rule 12, in sub-rule (1), after the word, "derecognize", the words,
 "de-recognize, and take over its management or both" shall be
 substituted. 5. In rule 12, after sub-rule (1), the following shall be added as sub-rule
 (2); namely:- 2.16.11. Impugned S.O. 177, on its plain reading, shows that Subrule (2B) has

 been added after Subrule (2A) in Rule 4 of the Rules of 2010. It

 provides that application should be accompanied by no objection

 certificate regarding land use issued by Revenue Department. In case a

 private school is proposed to be run in a rented land/building, the

 application should also be accompanied with documents relating to

 possession of the land required for building, playground etc in case the

 applicant is owner or a lease deed with minimum period of ten years.

2.16.12. On its further perusal S.O. 177 provides that the private schools which

 are already established shall produce no objection certificate regarding

 land use issued by the Revenue Department and documents relating to

 the possession of the land required for building, playground etc. in case

 the applicant is owner or a lease deed with minimum period of ten

 years, within the period which may be prescribed by the Government.

2.16.13. During the course of the arguments, one of the learned counsel

 appearing for the petitioners in one of the writ petitions has contended

 that there are various schools against whom the notice/s have not been

 issued and have been got off scot-free by the respondents, although

 such schools are existing on the State/Kahcharie/Shamilat land. This

 contention cannot be a pretext to justify one wrong by another wrong. 20 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 2.16.14. Nonetheless, here the Government is required to follow

 homogeneousness. All the petitioners-schools herein have, almost,

 been given permission by respondent-school/board authorities to

 establish, run and function. Was not it the responsibility of respondent-

 authorities at that relevant point of time to ascertain whether the

 school(s) proposed to be established was/were being built/constructed

 on the land which is not permitted to be used for such purpose.

2.16.15. The cases in hand are not about an individual school, where respondent- authorities had been in inertia and/or having no awareness about

 building/constructing a building and running of a school. They are

 hundreds in number. These schools have been established under the

 nose of government authorities at the helm of affairs; they cannot be

 heard saying that they had no knowledge and/or they were unable to

 stop such schools to come up. Respondent-authorities, at the relevant

 point of time, have had men and machinery; they could have

 instantaneously stopped such schools to come up on State/Kahcharie

 land; they not only permitted them but also gave recognition/affiliation.

2.16.16. If that being the position, the respondents herein are required to apply

 same yardstick to all private schools. 2.16.17. Mr. Mohsin Qadri, learned Sr.AAG, has made a reference to the Order

 dated 15.04.2024, passed by a Bench of this Court in a writ petition,

 WP(C) No.772/2024 titled as Ahmadiyya Public School, Reshinagar v.

 UT of J&K and others, and has stated that in the said writ petition same

 grounds had been taken and same relief had been prayed as is prayed in

 the cases in hand, yet the Writ Court has dismissed the said writ

 petition. 21 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 2.16.18. The aforesaid order referred to by Mr Mohsin Qadri cannot be said to

 be an Euclid's theorem. The Courts should not place reliance on

 decisions without discussing as to how the factual situation fits in with

 the fact situation of the decision on which reliance is placed. The

 observations of the Courts are neither to be read as Euclid's theorems

 nor as provisions of the statute and that too taken out of the context.

 These observations must be read in the context in which they appear to

 have been stated. The judgments of the Courts are not to be construed

 as statutes. To interpret the words, phrases and provisions of a statute,

 it may become necessary for the judges to embark into the lengthy

 discussions but the discussion is meant to explain and not to define. The

 Judges interpret statutes, they do not interpret the judgments. They

 interpret words of the statutes; their words are not to be interpreted as

 statutes. Reference in this regard is made to Bharat Petroleum

 Corporation Ltd. & anr. v. N.R. Vairamani & anr., AIR 2004 SC

 4778; Sarva Shramik Sanghatana (K.V.), Mumbai v. State of

 Maharashtra and others , AIR 2008 SC 946; Government of

 Karnataka & ors v. Gowramma & ors. AIR 2008 SC 863; Deepak

 Bajaj v. State of Maharashtra , AIR 2009 SC 628; and Dangdhuran

 Hydro Power Consortium & anr. v. Chenab Valley Power Projects

 Pvt Ltd & ors. 2017 SLJ 303. 2.17. Seventh question which has been made mention of in the writ petition

 is "whether the respondents by operation of law are estopped from

 denying access to the private unaided schools to the facilities and

 privileges of the Board of School Education and/or release of

 Registration Return (RR) forms". 22 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 If the private schools fulfil the laws, rules and regulations

 governing the running, establishing, maintaining of the private schools,

 they are entitled to the facilities and privileges.

2.18. The eighth question raised by the petitioner is "whether the amendment

 carried out in the Education Act, 2002, Rules of 2010 or any other law

 have the effect of closing down the private unaided schools, which have

 been functional for last several decades on Kahcharie land and, thus,

 are violative of the provisions of Right to Education Act and Article 14 ,

 19 and 21 of the Constitution". First and foremost, the old/repealed laws, rules and regulations

 did not permit any person, or for that matter private schools, to raise

 constructions, superstructures and infrastructures on Kahcharie/

 common land. It is made clear here that even if such laws, rules and

 regulations, usages, orders, directives, permit occupation of Kahcharie

 land for any other purpose except common purpose, such laws,

 regulations, usages, orders and directives are per se in derogation of the

 Constitution of India. Education Act of 2002, Rules of 2010 and impugned S.O. 177

 do not suffer from any infirmity or illegality, as such.

2.19. The nineth question raised by the petitioner is "whether the students,

 who have sought admission in the Private Unaided Schools existing on

 Kahcharie etc. land can be denied the education in such schools, thus,

 violating the right to the choice of the school of the students". This question is irrational. An illegal activity of grabbing

 Kahcharie/State land cannot be given sympathetic colour by using the

 expression "students". If a private school is established on Kahcharie 23 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 land, it is a misdemeanour. It cannot be condoned as it will have

 irretrievable ramifications. The question put by petitioner, if taken in other words, means

 that the Government is not able to provide education to its citizens,

 which is not a fact. If the Government would gear up, it can provide and/or is

 providing free education to its citizens, whether studying in government

 or private schools. Schemes for such purpose can be and/or are being

 formulated by the Government, for, that is not the big matter for the

 Government as it has highly qualified/expertized hands and skill, which

 can help it to come out of such situations. 2.20. As regards tenth question raised by the petitioner in the writ petition, it

 has already been set at rest herein before; besides it has been set at rest

 by the Supreme Court in its judgement dated 11th December 2023,

 passed in Writ Petition (Civil) No.1099 of 2019. 2.21. Again, question eleventh has been discussed and settled herein above.

2.22. Another facet of the matter is that petitioner herein has not thrown

 challenge to the Act of 2002 and the provisions contained therein which

 provide issuance of Rules and Regulations on the auspices of Act of

 2002. 2.23. It is worth to add here that prior to dawn of computer technology, we

 had been using the blackboards and chalks in the classrooms. Now we

 have smart/e-boards and in place of chalks we have stylus/e-pens. Not

 only this, we had been and are even using today the traditional copy and

 pen, but as of now we are in transit from paper to paperless work.

 Earlier it was physical presence in class/offices, now simultaneously it 24 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 is virtual attendance. We had been laying foundation stone for a

 particular work by being physically present on the spot, but now we can

 lay foundation stone by virtual mode. If we have these facilities; there

 are ostensibly unprincipled elements who are bent upon to misuse such

 facilities. To quell such misdemeanours, new laws are very important

 to be legislated and enforced. Conclusion: However, such extension shall not exceed one year from today.

2.25. Disposed of as above. WP(C) no.1275/2022 Al Azhar School of Education and others v. UT of J&K and others Mr. Z.A.Shah, Senior Advocate with Mr Asif Feroz Bhat, Advocate for petitioner
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 3. The present writ petition has been filed by as many as seventeen

 schools. They pray for grant of the following reliefs: JK/ 2022 dated 16.04.2022 and the Circulars no.F(Gen-B)KD/22
 dated 22.04.2022 and F(Gen-B)KD/22 dated 13.05.2022 be
 quashed. (c) By a writ of mandamus, the respondents be directed to accord
 registration/recognition to the petitioner schools as was being done 25 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 before issuance of impugned amendment of the rules, circulars/
 notifications and the schools be allowed to operate and function
 without any demur from the respondents and without interfering in
 their internal autonomy or in their affairs. (d) By a writ of mandamus, the respondents be directed to accord
 regularization of lands as regards the present holdings of the
 petitioner schools in accordance with law. (e) By a writ of mandamus, the Jammu and Kashmir School Board of
 Education be directed to accept the requisite forms relating to the
 registration of the students who are required to or intend to appear
 in the board examinations of such classes of which the Board
 conducts examinations and to complete all formalities in this
 behalf and to declare results of candidates. 3.1. Reply has been filed by respondents. 3.2. In the present case, petitioner - Al Feroz English Medium Public
 School, Kehrote Kulgam, as shown in writ petition, has been
 established on Shamilat Deh/Maqbooza Ahle Islam land situated at
 Kahrote bearing Khasra no.71. Petitioner - Sir Syed Memorial High School, Mahind, Anantnag,
 is being run on Shamilat/Maqbooza Malikaan land in village
 Kushroykalan. As regards petitioner - Public School English Medium, Hakoora,
 Anantnag, is concerned, it has been established on Shamilat Deh/
 Mehfooz Kahcharai land bearing Khasra no.01, situated at village
 Hakoora Badasgam, Anantnag. Petitioner - Shahi Hamdan Public School, Mahandpora,
 Shopian, has been established on Shamilat Deh/Maqbooza Malikaan
 bearing Khasra no.363 situated at village Mohandpora Trenz. Petitioner - Modern Trust of Education Brath Kalan Bomi,
 Baramulla is being run on Shamilat Deh/Maqbooza Kahcharai land. Petitioner - English Medium Public School, Guloora, Langet has
 been established on Shamilat Deh land. Petitioner - Badasgam Public School, Anantnag, has been
 established on Shamilat Deh/Maqbooza Malikaan land bearing Khasra
 no.1742, situated at village Hakoora Badasgam, Anantnag. Petitioner - Sir Syed Memorial Institute Quimu, Kulgam is being
 run in Shamilat Deh land falling under Khasra no.86 situated at Village
 Wani Gund. Insofar as petitioner - Modern Public School Sangas, 26 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 Anantnag, is concerned, it is claimed to have been established in the
year 1993 on Shamilat / Maqbooza Malikan land falling under Khasra
no.698 situated at Shalagam. Petitioner - Modern Public School, Shangas, Anantnag, has been
established in the year 1993 on Shamilat/Maqbooza Malikaan land
falling under Khasra no.698, situated at Village Shalagam. Petitioner - English Medium Public School, Malmapanpora,
Baramulla is claimed to be running since 1992 in Shamilat/Maqbooza
land falling under Khasra no.1260 situated at Malmapanpora. Petitioner school, namely, Islamic Era Public School Krangsoo,
Mattan, Anantnag, is said to have been established in the year 1999 on
Shamilat Deh/ Maqbooza Kahcharai land falling under Khasra no.697,
situated at village Krungsoo Mattan. Another petitioner school - Modern Public School Shalagam,
Anantnag, has been established in Shamilat Maqbooza Malikaan land
falling under Khasra no.698, situated at village Shalagam. One more petitioner school - Morning Star Pub. HS, Karimabad,
Pulwama, is stated to have been established in the year 1995 on
Maqbooza Malikan/Shamilat land bearing Khasra no.1714. Modern Public School Seer Hamdan, Anantnag has been
established on Maqbooza/Kahcharai land falling under Khasra no.870,
situated at Village Seer Hamdan, Anantnag. Gazi Memorial Institute Soaf Shali Kokernag Anantnag has been
established in the year 1992 on Maqbooza/Sakheen land bearing Khasra
no.775, situated Village Soafshall, Kokernag. Hanfia Model Institute, Mohammad Pora Tazipora, Kulgam, is
said to have been established in the year 1966, on Shamilat Deh/
Maqbooza Ahle Islam land, falling under Khasra no.191, situated at
village Tazipora. Shaheen Public School, Ranipora, Anantnag, has been
established in the year 1990 on Maqbooza/Malikaan falling under
Khasra no.304 village Ranipora, Anantnag. 27 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 3.3. In the present writ petition, some schools have been established on
 Shamilat, Maqbooza Malikaan, Maqbooza Ahle Islam, and some on
 Mehfooz Kahcharie land. WP(C) no.1276/2022 Al Feroz English Medium Public School and others v. UT of J&K & others Mr. Z.A.Shah, Senior Advocate with Mr Asif Feroz Bhat, Advocate for petitioner
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 4. In this petition, 17 petitioners-schools prays for grant of following
 reliefs: 4.1. Objections/para wise reply has been filed by respondents.

4.2. In the instant writ petition, some schools have been established on

 Shamilat Deh, Maqbooza Malikaan, Maqbooza Ahle Islam, and some

 on Mehfooz Kahcharie land. WP(C) no.1277/2022 Hamdania Science School and others v. UT of J&K & others Mr. Z.A.Shah, Senior Advocate with Mr Asif Feroz Bhat, Advocate for petitioner
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 28 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters 5. In the instant writ petition, there are twenty-one petitioner-schools who

 have knocked at portals of this Court seeking vouchsafe of the

 following reliefs: JK/ 2022 dated 16.04.2022 and the Circulars no.F(Gen-B)KD/22
 dated 22.04.2022 and F(Gen-B)KD/22 dated 13.05.2022 be
 quashed. (c) By a writ of mandamus, the respondents be directed to accord
 registration/recognition to the petitioner schools as was being done
 before issuance of impugned amendment of the rules, circulars/
 notifications and the schools be allowed to operate and function
 without any demur from the respondents and without interfering in
 their internal autonomy or in their affairs. (d) By a writ of mandamus, the respondents be directed to accord
 regularization of lands as regards the present holdings of the
 petitioner schools in accordance with law. (e) By a writ of mandamus, the Jammu and Kashmir School Board of
 Education be directed to accept the requisite forms relating to the
 registration of the students who are required to or intend to appear
 in the board examinations of such classes of which the Board
 conducts examinations and to complete all formalities in this
 behalf and to declare results of candidates. 5.1. Reply has been filed by respondents. 5.2. In the instant writ petition as well, the details of schools and kind of

 land over which the said school run and function have been enumerated

 in paragraph 07. Some of the schools are running on Maqbooza Khalsa,

 Maqbooza Sarkar, Bashardgani Deh, Shamilat Deh, Maqbooza Yateem

 Trust, Maqbooza Masjid Sharief/Auqaf, SDA land, Maqbooza UHP

 land, Maqbooza Panchayat, Maqbooza Flood Control, Maqbooza Dev.

 Authority, and some are on Kahcharie land. WP(C) no.1282/2022 J&K Private Schools Association and others v. UT of J&K and others Mr. Z.A.Shah, Senior Advocate with Mr Asif Feroz Bhat, Advocate for petitioner.
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 29 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters 6. In the instant writ petition, eighty-five petitioners/schools seek the same

 relief which has been sought in writ petitions, viz. WP(C)

 nos.1276/2023, 1277/2023. Same set of facts and grounds have been

 urged as have been exhorted in aforementioned writ petitions.

6.1. Reply has been filed by respondents. WP(C) no.1399/2022 M/s Mehboob ul Alam Public Middle School v. UT of J&K and others Mr. M.S.Reshi, Advocate for petitioner. Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 7. In the instant writ petition, petitioner-school, which has been

 established in Kahcharai land, prays for grant of following reliefs: III) By issuance of an appropriate writ, order or direction, one in
 the nature of mandamus, directing the respondents to accord
 registration/ recognition to the petitioner school as was being
 done before issuance of the impugned amendment of the rules,
 circular/ notifications. IV) By issuance of an appropriate writ, order or direction, one in
 the nature of mandamus, the respondents 3 and 4 be restrained
 from pressurizing the petitioner to close down the institution
 forthwith and issue discharge certificates to the enrolled
 students but to allow the petitioner school to operate and
 function without any hindrance from the respondents and
 without interfering in the internal autonomy or in their affairs.
 V) By issuance of an appropriate writ, order or direction, one in
 the nature of mandamus, directing the respondents to accord
 regularization of land as regard the present holding of the
 petitioner school in accordance with law. VI) By issuance of an appropriate writ, order or direction, one in
 the nature of mandamus, directing the Board of School
 Education, Kashmir, Srinagar, to accept the requisite forms
 relating to the registration of the students who are required to
 or intend to appear in the Board Examination of such classes
 of which the Board conducts examinations and to complete all
 formalities in this behalf and to declare results of candidates.

7.1. Reply has been filed by respondents. WP(C) no.1447/2022 30 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters Al Noor English Medium Public School Lalpora Lolab v. UT of J&K and others Mr. M.A.Wani, Advocate for petitioner
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 8. In the writ petition on hand, the petitioner - school is running on

 Kahcharai land falling under Survey no.4742. The petitioner prays to

 declare SO 177 dated 15.04.2022, amending Education Rules of 2010,

 as ultra vires to the Constitution and of no legal consequence and quash

 the notification no.F(Gen-AFF)Offline/B-JK/ 2022 dated 16.04.2022

 and the Circulars no.F(Gen-B)KD/22 dated 22.04.2022 and F(Gen-

 B)KD/22 dated 13.05.2022. The petitioner also seeks a direction upon

 respondents to accord registration/recognition to the petitioner school

 as was being done before issuance of impugned amendment of the

 rules, circulars/ notifications and the schools be allowed to operate and

 function without any demur from the respondents and without

 interfering in their internal autonomy or in their affairs.

8.1. Reply/objections have been filed by respondents.

8.2. In the present case as well, petitioner-school is being run on Kahcharai

 land. WP(C) no.1465/2022 Jamiat-us-Sualihaat v. UT of J&K and others Mr. Z. A. Qureshi, Senior Advocate with Ms Rehana, Advocate for petitioner.
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 9. On the edifice of case set up, the petitioner prays to quash

 communication no.DSEK/GS/54/MISC/2834 dated 13th June 2022 to

 the Principal Secretary to Government, School Education Department

 and order passed by Deputy Secretary to Government, School

 Education Department, on the recommendations of Director, School

 Education Kashmir, vide communication no.EDU-BOSE/37/2022-01 31 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 dated 14th Jun 2022, and in consequence thereof, allow petitioner-

 school to continue, manage the school without any interference of any

 kind whatsoever in pursuance of the recognition given to the petitioner-

 school vide annexure to the Government Order no.1706-Edu of 2021

 dated 15th December 2021 upto October 2025. Director, School

 Education, is sought to be directed to accept the requisite forms relating

 to the registration of the students of the petitioner-school who are

 required or intend to appear in the Board Examination of 9th to 12th

 classes of which the J&K State Board of School Education conducts the

 examination and complete all the formalities in this behalf and to

 declare the result of the candidates. Quashment of notification

 no.F(Fen.AFF)/offline/B-JK/2022 dated 16th April 2022 and Circulars

 no.F(Gen-B)KD/22 dated 22.04.2022 and F(Gen-B)KD/22 dated 13th

 May 2022 is also sought. SO 177 dated 15th April 2022 is prayed to be

 declared ultra vires the Constitution. 9.1. Petitioner-school claims that the school is being run in Shamilat land

 which was already in possession of Auqaf. 9.2. Reply has been filed by respondents. WP(C) no.1551/2022 Azad Education and Research Trust and another v. UT of J&K and others Mr. R.A.Jan, Senior Advocate with Mr Ubaid Mir, Advocate for petitioner.
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 10.Declaration of notice dated 9th October 2021 issued by respondent no.6

 under Section 133 and 133 (c) of the Land Revenue Act, as void ab

 initio and non est in law is sought. A prayer for quashing notice dated

 9th October 2021 is also prayed for. A direction upon respondents is

 also sought to be passed to treat impugned action of respondents vide 32 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 impugned notice dated 9th October 2021 as non-est in law. Respondents

 1 to 5 are sought to be desisted, refrained and forbear from giving effect

 and/or acting or proceeding in further of impugned notice dated 9 th

 October 2021 in any manner prejudicial to the constitutionality

 guaranteed rights of petitioner-Trust and the Education Institution

 (School) as well as against the mandate of Section 133-J of the Land

 Revenue Act. Petitioner also prays to direct respondents 1 to 5 treat

 petitioner Trust and Education Institution in the matter of regularization

 of land measuring 17 Kanals approximately similarly and on par with

 Educational Institutions forming in law one class with petitioner Trust

 and thereupon land be regularized on the terms and conditions

 Kahcharie/State land has been regularized in favour of Educational

 Institutions forming in law one class with petitioner Trust and

 Educational Institution. 10.1. As can be seen from perusal of writ petition, petitioner no.2-school has

 been established in the year 2005. It has been in terms of Resolution

 dated 12th July 2022 that Mian Shamas Jalal, one of the Trustees of

 petitioner no.1-Trust, has been authorized to file writ petition on hand.

 Petitioners admit that they are in possession of 17 Kanals of land

 bearing Survey no.1026 min underneath and appurtenant to the

 Educational Institution at Humhama Budgam. 10.2. It is a contention of petitioners that a building was already in existence

 in the land and they were misled to believe that land underneath and

 appurtenant thereto was proprietary land. Petitioners rely on a

 document, viz. Sale Deed dated 3rd October 2005, that according to

 them has been executed by seller in their favour. 33 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 Perusal whereof divulges that seller, namely, Rafi Ahmad Bhat,

 had been owner of land measuring 02 Kanals 03 Marlas under Survey

 no.809, Khata no.390, Khewat no.79 along with a school complex

 constructed on it situated at village Humhama Budgam, which he sold

 to petitioners. 10.3. It is made clear here that petitioners' claim is that they are in possession

 of 17 Kanals, but any layman can see and say that petitioners have by

 virtue of Sale Deed purchased only 02 Kanals 03 Marlas of land.

 However, while perusing Annexure (page 46 & 47), it comes to fore

 that Tehsildar, Budgam, has reported that petitioner-school is in

 possession of Kahcharie land measuring 16 Kanals; with respect

 whereof proprietary land measuring 16 Kanals has been offered by

 petitioner-school. So, it is within the powers and domain of respondents

 to consider the case of petitioner for exchange of proprietary land in

 place of Kahcharie land. WP(C) no.1729/2022 Arshad Memorial Foundation (Trust) v. U.T. of J&K and others Mr M.A.Ganai, Advocate
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 11.In this writ petition as well, same reliefs are being sought and prayed

 for which have been solicited in abovementioned writ petitions, viz.

 quashing SO 177 dated 15th April 2022 as also Notification F(Gen-

 B)KD/22 dated 22.04.2022 and F(Gen-B)KD/22 dated 13th May

 2022, and directing respondents to accord/renew registration/

 recognition to petitioner-school as was done before issuance of

 impugned amendment of the rules, SO 177, circulars and 34 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 petitioner-institute be allowed to operate and function without any

 interference from the respondents and without interfering in the

 internal autonomy of petitioner's school/institute.

11.1. Reply has been filed by respondents. 11.2. Petitioner claims that petitioner-school is built on Abadi Deh land. WP(C) no.2225/2022 Azad Education and Research Trust and another v. UT of J&K and others Mr. R.A.Jan, Senior Advocate with Mr Ubaid Mir, Advocate for petitioner.
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 12.Petitioners-schools pray to declare impugned action of respondent no.2

 dated 30th July 2022 rejecting application of petitioner no.1 for

 extension of already granted recognition/affiliation to petitioner

 institution, illegal to the extent of being non-est in law. They also seek

 quashing of memo dated 30th July 2022 and directing respondents 1, 3

 to 6 to treat impugned action of respondent no.2 rejecting application

 of petitioner for extension of already granted recognition/affiliation to

 petitioner no.2, void ab initio and non est in law. Petitioners also pray

 to direct respondents 1, 3 to 5 to desist refrain and forbear from giving

 effect thereto and/or acting on the basis thereof in any manner

 prejudicial to the rights of guaranteed under Chapter VIII of the

 Regulations 1992 to the petitioner no.2 in the matter of extension of

 already granted recognition/affiliation. Respondent no.2 is also sought

 to be directed to submit the case of petitioner no.2 to

 Recognition/Affiliation Committee for reconsideration in accord with

 mandate of Chapter VIII of the Regulations 1992, for the purposes of

 extension/renewal of already granted recognition/affiliation to 35 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 petitioner no.2 institution. Respondent no.2 is also sought to be directed

 to extent the petitioner in particular petitioner no.2 the treatment in the

 matter of extension/renewal of affiliations similar and on par extended

 to schools forming in law one class with petitioner no.2 institution.

 Petitioners seek to direct respondent no.2 to reconsider the case of

 petitioners and on such reconsideration, the already granted

 recognition/affiliation vide order no.347-Aff of 2017 dated 21st April

 2017 to the Management of petitioner no.2 school and give all the

 benefits/facilities/privileges to petitioner no.2 extendable in law to

 petitioner no.2 school on extension of recognition/affiliation so

 accorded/granted by the Recognition/ Affiliation Committee of the

 respondent no.2. 12.1. Reply has come up from respondents. 12.2. Petitioners herein have already filed a writ petition, being WP(C)

 no.1551/2022. WP(C) no.2710/2022 Islamic Educational Institutional Institute and others v. UT of J&K and
 others Mr. Bhat Fayaz, Advocate for petitioner. Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 13.Petitioners-schools pray to direct respondents to ensure that petitioners

 are being allowed to operate their institutions in accordance with the

 permission granted to them earlier in point of time, with a further

 direction to issue formal NOCs in favour of petitioners notwithstanding

 the status of the land and that respondents may be directed to ensure

 that students are not deprived from appearing in the examinations. A

 direction is sought in the name of respondents to explain as to how SO 36 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 177 dated 15th April 2022 is being made applicable to petitioners or in

 alternative SO 177 may be quashed. 13.1. Reply has been filed by respondents. 13.2. It is admitted position of petitioners that they are running the schools
 on State land. WP(C) no.2947/2022 New Cambridge School v. UT of J&K and others Mr. Tasaduk Hussain Reshi, Advocate for petitioner.
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 14.Writ of certiorari, quashing Order No.64 Gen of 2022 dated 16th

 December 2022 passed by respondent no.3 for tagging of on roll

 students of SSE (Class 10th) of New Cambridge School, Nehama,

 Kulgam, is prayed for by petitioner. Writ of mandamus, commanding

 respondents to grant extension in the period of affiliation for five years

 upto 10th Class w.e.f. Academic Session November 2021 to October

 2026 to the petitioner school, is also sought. Petitioner also prays

 passing of writ of mandamus, commanding respondents to grant access

 to the link for submission of online examination forms for Class 10th

 Annual (Regular) Examination 2023 to the petitioner school.

14.1. Reply has been filed by respondents. 14.2. Insofar as present writ petition is concerned, petitioner-school is

 required to follow and comply rules, regulations, and terms and

 conditions being imposed by the authorities qua running of the school. WP(C) no.151/2023 Alnoor English Medium Public School v. UT of J&K and others Mr. M. A. Wani, Advocate for petitioner. Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 15.Petitioner-school, as is claimed in the writ petition on hand, had been

 established in the year 1998 on State land allotted to his father and 37 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 uncles and thereafter the school was shifted upon Kahcharie land

 comprising Survey no.4742. On the edifice of case set up, petitioner

 prays to direct respondent no.2 to extend provisional registration in

 favour of the school till the issue is resolved, with a further direction to

 respondents to conduct examination of Class 8th which is scheduled to

 be held in March 2023. Petitioner also prays to direct respondent-ZEO

 to countersign the certificates of outgoing students of the school.

15.1. Reply has been filed by the respondents. WP(C) no.540/2023 Hanfia Islamic Educational Institute v. UT of J&K and others Mr. P.S.Ahmad, Advocate for petitioner. Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 16.Petitioner seeks quashment of public notice no.CEO/A/PVT/114161-

 69/23 dated 10th March 2023, in terms of which petitioner-school has

 been virtually closed by impressing upon parents of the wards of the

 school to get their wards admitted in other institutions for new academic

 session - 2023-24 as according to respondent no.3, recognition of

 petitioner-school has expired, and consequent upon the said public

 notice, all the proceedings initiated or likely to be initiated for

 withdrawing the wards from the school be kept in abeyance. Writ of

 prohibition restraining respondents from closing/seizing the petitioner-

 school run and operated by him under the name and style of Hanfia

 Islamic Educational Institute, situated at Salia Panchalpora, Anantnag,

 falling in the Educational Zone Mattan District Anantnag and not to

 deprive petitioner from its ownership and possessory rights, is also

 sought. Petitioner also prays for writ of mandamus commanding

 respondents to process and finalize the renewal recognition case of 38 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 petitioner-school run and operated under the name and style of Hanfia

 Islamic Educational Institute, Salia, Panchalpora, Anantnag, in terms of

 the application of petitioner and documents submitted by him and

 acknowledged by respondents. 16.1. Reply has been filed by respondents, in which they state that as per

 information available in the Directorate, petitioner-school has not

 applied through online mode as details of school are not available on

 its portal. As and when petitioner-school applies for

 recognition/affiliation or extension in the period of

 affiliation/recognition or upgradation, same will be examined and

 decided on its own merits. WP(C) no.671/2023 Khakania Childrens Model High School v. UT of J&K and others Mr. G. Q. Bhat, Advocate with Mr Rizwan Bhat, Advocate for petitioner.
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 17.Petitioner prays to quash public notice no.CEO/A/Pvt./114161-69/23

 dated 10th March 2023, issued by respondent-Chief Education Officer,

 Anantnag, to the extent of petitioner-school, namely, Khakania

 Childrens Model High School, Furrah, whereby parents of wards

 enrolled in petitioner-school have been informed to get their wards

 admitted in nearby Govt./recognized Private institutions from the

 commencement of new academic session (2023-24) to save the

 academic career of enrolled students and mail dated 4th March 2023

 issued by Directorate of School Education, Kashmir, whereby

 application filed by petitioner for renewal/extension of

 affiliation/recognition has been rejected. Petitioner prays to direct

 respondents to consider application submitted by petitioner for 39 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 extension/renewal of period of affiliation and recognition without any

 further delay, with further direction to respondents to regularize the

 land falling under Survey no.237 measuring 02 Kanals 02 Marlas in

 favour of Khakania Childrens Model High School, Furrah, in terms of

 policy dated 16th August 2010. Petitioner also seeks a writ of

 mandamus, commanding respondents to renew/extend the period of

 affiliation/recognition of petitioner-school or maintain status quo on

 spot with respect to the school of petitioner is concerned.

17.1. Reply has been filed by respondents. WP(C) no.696/2023 Hyderia Model High School v. UT of J&K and others Mr. Lone Altaf, Advocate for petitioner. Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 18.Petitioner prays to quash notice no.DIPK-18422/22 dated 16th March

 2023, issued by respondent no.5 to the extent same pertains to

 petitioner-school. Writ of mandamus is also sought to be issued

 directing respondents to extend affiliation/recognition of petitioner-

 school in accordance with law governing the field without any further

 delay and that respondents may also be directed to allow petitioner-

 school to run its classes and give exams along with other schools

 without any prohibition on petitioner-school. 18.1. Reply has been filed by respondents. 18.2. Perusal of impugned notice dated 16th March 2023 reveals that

 petitioner-school has not obtained recognition beyond the expiry of

 previous recognition/affiliation. WP(C) no.1486/2023 Islamia High School, Pampore v. UT of J&K and others Mr. G.Q.Bhat, Advocate with Mr. Rizwan Bhat, Advocate for petitioner. 40 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 19.Petitioner prays to quash notice GGHSS/P/2263 dated 19th May 2023,

 wherein the respondents have directed petitioner-school to submit

 necessary documents and other relevant no objection certificates in

 default that the school of petitioners be closed and the students studying

 therein be shifted to nearest government school and impugned notice

 bearing No.F(GEN-AFF/OFFLINE)B/JD/2022 dated 16th April 2022

 wherein it has been directed to get no objection certificate regarding

 land use from the concerned revenue department. Petitioners also prays

 to direct respondents, by way of writ of mandamus, to consider

 application submitted by petitioner for extension/renewal of period of

 affiliation and recognition without any further delay. Writ of mandamus

 is also prayed for by petitioner to direct respondents to renew/extend

 the period of affiliation/recognition of petitioner-school or maintain

 status quo on spot with respect to the school of petitioner, with a further

 direction upon respondents to allow petitioner to run the school under

 the name and style of Islamia High School on spot without any

 interference. 19.1. Reply has been filed by respondents. WP(C) no.1487/2023 Hamdaniya Mission School Pampore v. UT of J&K and others Mr. G.Q.Bhat, Advocate with Mr. Rizwan Bhat, Advocate for petitioner.
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 20.Quashment of notice GGHSS/P/2263 dated 19th May 2023, wherein the

 respondents have directed the petitioner-school to submit the necessary

 documents and other relevant no objection certificates in default the

 school of petitioners be closed and the students studying therein be 41 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 shifted to the nearest government school as also notice bearing

 No.F(Gen-Aff/Offline)B/JD/2022 dated 16th April 2022 wherein it has

 been directed to get no objection certificate regarding the land use from

 the concerned revenue department. Petitioners also prays to direct the

 respondents, by way of a writ of mandamus, to consider the application

 submitted by the petitioner for extension/renewal of period of

 affiliation and recognition without any further delay, is prayed for. Writ

 of mandamus is also prayed for by petitioner to direct respondents to

 renew/extend the period of affiliation/recognition of petitioner-school

 or maintain status quo on spot with respect to the school of petitioner,

 with a further direction upon respondents to allow petitioner to run the

 school under the name and style of Islamia High School on spot without

 any interference. 20.1. Objections/para wise reply has been filed by respondents. WP(C) no.1491/2023 Al Noor Model School v. UT of J&K and others Mr. Z.A.Shah, Senior Advocate with Mr Asif Feroz Bhat, Advocate for petitioner
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 21.The petitioner prays for grant of the following reliefs: 21.1. Reply has been filed by respondents. 42 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 21.2. In the present case, the petitioner-school is being run since 1998 on a

 proprietary land. The petitioner-school is stated to have been granted

 affiliation as also recognition for running classes up to class 10th.

21.3. Petitioner, as can be grasped from perusal of file, prays for a direction

 to respondents to issue NOC in favour of petitioner-school. WP(C) no.2131/2023 Hanfia Islamia Education Trust and others v. UT of J&K and others Mr. Z.A.Shah, Senior Advocate with Mr Asif Feroz Bhat, Advocate for petitioner
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 22.In the writ petition in hand, the constitutional validity of S.O.177 dated

 15th April 2022 amending Education Rules 2010 followed by

 notifications / circulars, is challenged and declaration thereof as

 violative of Article 41 and 46 of the Constitution of India, is sought.

 Declaration is also sought to the effect that policy of government in

 reclaiming Shamilat land mostly in remote areas of the Union Territory

 of J&K be declared null and void. Petitioners also pray to pass writ of

 mandamus commanding respondents to regularize permissive

 possession of petitioners to the respective portions of land held by them

 in continuous and uninterrupted and long possession allotted to them

 by respective panchayat/village committee and also to issue requisite

 use certificate to the Governing body of petitioner no.2 to 10. A writ of

 mandamus is also sought to command Director, School Education, to

 extend recognition of the schools run by the Trust including petitioners

 2 to 10 run irrespective of the description of the portions of the land

 under and appurtenant to the respective schools, particulars whereof are

 given in Annexure III to the petition. 22.1. Respondents have filed objections/para-wise reply. 43 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters WP(C) no.2266/2023 Iqbal Public High School Vessu and others v. UT of J&K and others Mr. Bhat Fayaz, Advocate for petitioner
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 23.Writ of mandamus commanding respondents to ensure that petitioners

 are being allowed to operate their institution in accordance with the

 permission granted to them earlier in point of time, is sought in this writ

 petition. Petitioners also seek respondents to be directed to issue formal

 NOCs in favour of petitioner-school notwithstanding the status of the

 land, with further direction to respondents not to deprive petitioner-

 institution from recognition/registration on the strength of SO 177

 dated 15th April 2022 which is not applicable to petitioners or in

 alternative SO 177 dated 15th April 2022 be quashed.

23.1. Objections have been filed by respondents. WP(C) no.2689/2023 Iqbal Public High School Vessu and others v. UT of J&K and others Mr. Bhat Fayaz, Advocate for petitioner
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 24.Petitioners seek quashing of S.O. 177 dated 15th April 022 issued by
 respondent no.1. petitioners also pray to pass writ of mandamus
 commanding respondents to ensure that petitioners are being allowed
 to operate their institution in accordance with the permission granted to
 them earlier in point of time. Petitioner also seeks respondents to be
 directed to issue formal NOCs in favour of petitioner-school
 notwithstanding the status of the land, with further direction to
 respondents not to deprive petitioner-institution from recognition/
 registration on the strength of SO 177 dated 15th April 2022 which is
 not applicable to petitioners or in alternative SO 177 dated 15 th April
 2022 be quashed. 24.1. Objections have been filed by respondents.

24.2. Petitioners admit running of the school on State Land, which fact is

 shown in revenue records as well. 44 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters WP(C) no.2714/2023 Salfia Muslim Educational & Research Trust v. UT of J&K & others Mr. Z.A.Shah, Senior Advocate with Mr Asif Feroz Bhat, Advocate for petitioner
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 25.Petitioner-school prays for passing of the following reliefs: (b) That respondents in terms regulation of 1992 are bound to release
 R.R. forms to the petitioner school so as to enable the students of
 9th & 10th Class to seek the registration with the Board of School
 Education. (c) Further, by a writ of mandamus, the respondents be directed to
 release all the facilities to the petitioner school online such as
 Migration Certificate, Renewal of Registration, Countersigning of
 Registration and Certificates etc.

25.1. Objections/para wise reply, the respondents have filed in opposition to

 the writ petition

25.2. In the instant writ petition, it is admitted position of petitioner that the

 school has been established in the year 1989 on land measuring 09

 Kanals 08 Marlas and 40 sqfts recorded as Shamilat Deh Mehfooz

 Kahcharie under Survey no.765 of Estate Baghat Barzulla Tehsil

 Chanapora/ Nattipora, Srinagar. WP(C) no.2779/2023 Rehmania Public School and others v. UT of J&K & others Mr. Jehangir A Ganai, Sr. Advocate with Mr Murfaat Naseem, Adv. for petitioner
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 26.This writ petition is jointly filed by forty schools. Their prayer which

 they seek to be granted on the foundation of the case set up, is that

 respondent Board may be directed to release the registration return

 (RR) Forms to petitioner-schools so as to enable the students of 9th

 and 10th class enrolled in petitioner-schools to seek registration 45 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 with respondent Board, with a further direction to respondents to

 release all the online facilities to the petitioner schools.

26.1. Objections/para wise reply has been filed by respondents.

26.2. According to petitioners, they have already approached this Court with

 afore-numbered writ petitions viz. WP(C) nos. 1275/2022, 1276/2022,

 1277/2022 and 1282/2022. Thus, it is admitted position of petitioners

 that the schools are being run on Shamilat/Kahcharie land. WP(C) no.2846/2023 City School, Anantnag, and others v. UT of J&K & others
 Mr. Z.A.Shah, Sr. Advocate with Mr Asif Feroz Bhat, Adv. for petitioners
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 27.This writ petition is filed by as many as thirteen schools. They entreat

 passing of the following reliefs: 27.1. Objections have been filed by respondents. 46 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 27.2. This writ petition is similar to the one which has been filed by Mr. Z.A.

 Shah, Senior Advocate, that is, WP(C) no.3250/2023.

27.3. The present writ petition shall also be regulated and governed by the

 directions passed in WP(C) no.3250/2023. WP(C) no.2859/2023 Iqbal Islamia Mission High School v. UT of J&K & others Mr. M. Sultan, Advocate for petitioners
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 28.Quashing of S.O. 177 dated 15th April 2022 is sought for by petitioner

 as also Notification no.F(Gen/AFT/offline/B-JK/2022 dated 16th April

 2022 along with circulars issued by respondent Board of School

 Education, Kashmir Division is prayed for by petitioner. Writ of

 mandamus is also sought, commanding respondents to grant affiliation

 to petitioner-school to fulfil all the requisite formalities to appear in

 ensuing examinations. 28.1. Objections have been filed by respondents.
28.2. It is stated by petitioner that petitioner-school is a private unaided
 school, established in the year 1997 and is housed in a three storeyed
 building, which is raised on a proprietary land covered under survey
 no.4873/3550 of Revenue Esteate Kral Sanger, Brane, Nishtat,
 Srinagar, which falls in the ownership of Smt. Raj Kumari D/o Yuvraj
 Karan Singh. According to petitioner, it approached Tehsildar
 concerned for grant of NOC, who failed to issue it although the case of
 petitioner-school is on much higher pedestal because the school is
 raised on a proprietary holding. WP(C) no.2886/2023 M/s Hanfiya Islamiya Model High School, Sehpora, Ganderbal v. UT
 of J&K and others
 Mr. M.S.Reshi, Advocate for petitioner. Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 47 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters 29.In the instant writ petition, petitioner-school, which has been

 established in Kahcharai land, measuring 30 Kanals 11 Marlas falling

 under Khasra no.379 situated at Sehpora, Ganderbal, prays for grant of

 following reliefs: (c) By issuance of an appropriate writ, order or direction, one in the
 nature of mandamus, directing the respondents to accord
 registration/ recognition to the petitioner school as was being done
 before issuance of the impugned amendment of the rules, circular/
 notifications in future as well. (d) By issuance of an appropriate writ, order or direction, one in the
 nature of mandamus, the respondents 3 and 4 be restrained from
 pressurizing the petitioner to close down the institution forthwith
 and issue discharge certificates to the enrolled students but to
 allow the petitioner school to operate and function without any
 hindrance from the respondents and without interfering in the
 internal autonomy or in their affairs. (e) By issuance of an appropriate writ, order or direction, one in the
 nature of mandamus, directing the respondents to accord
 regularization of land as regard the present holding of the
 petitioner school in accordance with law. (f) By issuance of an appropriate writ, order or direction, one in the
 nature of mandamus, directing the Board of School Education,
 Kashmir, Srinagar, to accept the requisite forms relating to the
 registration of the students who are required to or intend to appear
 in the Board Examination of such classes of which the Board
 conducts examinations and to complete all formalities in this
 behalf and to declare results of candidates. 29.1. Reply has been filed by respondents. WP(C) no.2891/2023 M/s Islamiya Hanfiya Model High School, Harran, Ganderbal v. UT of
 J&K and others
 Mr. M.S.Reshi, Advocate for petitioner. Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 30.In the instant writ petition, petitioner-school, which has been

 established in Kahcharai land, measuring 30 Kanals 11 Marlas falling 48 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 under Khasra no.379 situated at Sehpora, Ganderbal, prays for grant of

 following reliefs: c) By issuance of an appropriate writ, order or direction, one in the
 nature of mandamus, directing the respondents to accord
 registration/ recognition to the petitioner school as was being done
 before issuance of the impugned amendment of the rules, circular/
 notifications in future as well. d) By issuance of an appropriate writ, order or direction, one in the
 nature of mandamus, the respondents 3 and 4 be restrained from
 pressurizing the petitioner to close down the institution forthwith
 and issue discharge certificates to the enrolled students but to allow
 the petitioner school to operate and function without any hindrance
 from the respondents and without interfering in the internal
 autonomy or in their affairs. e) By issuance of an appropriate writ, order or direction, one in the
 nature of mandamus, directing the respondents to accord
 regularization of land as regard the present holding of the petitioner
 school in accordance with law. f) By issuance of an appropriate writ, order or direction, one in the
 nature of mandamus, directing the Board of School Education,
 Kashmir, Srinagar, to accept the requisite forms relating to the
 registration of the students who are required to or intend to appear
 in the Board Examination of such classes of which the Board
 conducts examinations and to complete all formalities in this
 behalf and to declare results of candidates. 30.1. Reply has been filed by respondents. WP(C) no.2940/2022 Iqbal Public High School, Vessu, Anantnag v. UT of J&K and others Mr. Bhat Fayaz, Advocate for petitioner. Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 31.Petitioner prays that by writ of mandamus, respondents may be

 commanded to release the Registration Return (RR) Forms to

 petitioner-school in order to enable Class 9th and 10th, to seek

 registration with the Board of School Education subject to Regulations

 of 1992. Petitioner also seeks grant of Writ of mandamus, commanding

 respondents not to create any hindrance in issuance of Registration 49 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 Return (RR) Forms of petitioner-school and ensure that same are

 released in favour of petitioner-school before the cut-off date. Writ of

 mandamus, commanding respondents not to deprive the students of

 petitioner-school from appearing in 9th and 10th class examinations.

31.1. Reply, as usual in other cases, has also been filed by respondents in

 instant matter. 31.2. It is admitted position of petitioners that they are running the schools

 on State land. WP(C) nos.2972/2023; 2974/2023; 2975/2023; 2977/2023; 2978/2023;
2981/2023; 2989/2023; nbd 3110/2023
 Sheikh-ul-Alam Public School Achabal Sopore v. U.T. of J&K & ors
 Mr. Z.A.Shah, Sr. Advocate with Mr Asif Feroz Bhat, Adv. for petitioners
 Mr Mohsin Qadiri, Sr.AAG with Ms. Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 32.In these writ petitions, relief prayed for by petitioners-schools is akin

 to the relief sought in writ petition, viz. WP(C) nos.3250/2023 and

 2846/2023. 32.1. Objections in all these writ petitions have been filed by respondents.

32.2. These writ petitions are similar to the one which has been filed by Mr.

 Z. A. Shah, Senior Advocate, that is, WP(C) no.3250/2023.

32.3. The present writ petitions shall also be regulated and governed by the

 directions passed in WP(C) no.3250/2023. WP(C) no.3148/2023 Educational Trust Kashmir, Alamgiri Bazar v. U.T. of J&K and others
 Mr. M.Y.Bhat, Advocate
 Mr Mohsin Qadri, Sr.AAG with Ms Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 33.Petitioner-school seeks a direction upon respondents to renew

 registration/revalidation of petitioner-school as was being done since

 decades and the school be allowed to operate and function without any

 demur from respondents and without interfering in their internal 50 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 autonomy or in their affairs. Petitioner also prays to direct respondents

 to accord recognition/affiliation to petitioner-school and release the

 Registration Return Forms in favour of petitioner-school, with a further

 direction to respondents to accord regularization of lands as regards

 present holdings of the petitioner-school in accordance with law. J&K

 Board of School Education is sought to be directed to accept the

 requisite forms relating to the registration of the students who are

 required to or intend to appear in the board examinations of such classes

 of which the Board conducts examinations and to complete all

 formalities in this behalf to declare results of candidates.

33.1. Objections/para wise reply has been filed by respondents.

33.2. It is evident from pleadings in petition, that petitioner-school is being

 run on the land which is of the kind of Shamilat Deh and Mehfoozi

 Kahcharai. WP(C) no.3285/2023 Hyderia Model High School, Tulmulla v. U.T. of J&K and others
 Mr. Sheikh Younis, Advocate
 Mr Mohsin Qadri, Sr.AAG with Ms Maha Majeed, assisting counsel. 34.Petitioner-school seeks a direction upon respondents to renew

 registration/revalidation of petitioner-school as was being done since

 decades and the school be allowed to operate and function without any

 demur from respondents and without interfering in their internal

 autonomy or in their affairs. Petitioner also prays to direct respondents

 to accord recognition/affiliation to petitioner-school and release the

 Registration Return Forms in favour of petitioner-school, with a further

 direction to respondents to accord regularization of lands as regards

 present holdings of the petitioner-school in accordance with law. J&K 51 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 Board of School Education is sought to be directed to accept the

 requisite forms relating to the registration of the students who are

 required to or intend to appear in the board examinations of such classes

 of which the Board conducts examinations and to complete all

 formalities in this behalf to declare results of candidates.

34.1. Objections/para wise reply has been filed by respondents.

34.2. It is evident from pleadings in the present writ petition, that petitioner- school is being run on the land which is of the kind of Shamilat Deh
 and Mehfoozi Kahcharai. Conclusion: 35.Almost, all that was required to be discussed, observed, viewed and
 opined has already been done hereinbefore while disposing of the
 aforementioned writ petition, WP(C) no.3250/2023. In that writ
 petition, the petitioner has acquired proprietary land.
35.1. Insofar as the other writ petitions, where the schools are being run on
 Kahcharie/State/Shamilat etc. land are concerned, the petitioners
 therein can either acquire the proprietary land and/or approach the
 respondent-authority (Principal Secretary to Government, Department
 of School Education, U.T. of J&K/J&K Board of School Education)
 with their plea as is made by them in their respective writ petitions for
 consideration which can also include the exchange of proprietary land
 in lieu of Kahcharie/State/Shamilat etc. land, as may be available under
 and in terms of the Land Revenue Act or any other applicable law(s).
 All these requests/applications shall be made by petitioners within four
 weeks from today. Principal Secretary to Government, Department of
 School Education, U.T. of J&K/J&K Board of School Education, on
 receipt of such application(s), shall decide the same either himself/itself
 or by constituting a Committee, comprising of senior officers of the
 School Education Department/J&K Board of School Education,
 Revenue Department or any other department(s) as may be thought
 appropriate by him/it, and get such applications decided within four
 months. While doing so, the petitioner(s) shall also be heard. 52 WP(C) no.3250/2023 with connected matters
 35.2. It is made clear here that in the event any of the writ petitioners makes
 the same proposal as has been made by the petitioner in WP(C)
 no.3250/2023, such a case will be governed and regulated by the
 directions passed hereinabove in WP(C) no.3250/2023. Till then
 petitioner(s) be permitted to run the school(s) provided they are able to
 do so having regard to change of circumstances during pendency of
 instant matter as the students studying in those schools have been
 shifted to other schools. 35.3. With regard to the writ petitions/cases, where Kahcharie/State/Shamilat
 land etc. is not involved, they (writ petitioners therein) can also
 approach Principal Secretary to Government, Department of School
 Education, U.T. of J&K/J&K Board of School Education, with their
 request/plight within four weeks from today. On receipt of such
 application(s), he/it shall either himself/itself decide or get such
 application(s) decided through the Committee, to be constituted by
 him/it, within a period of four months and while doing so, petitioner(s)
 shall also be heard. Till then petitioner(s) be permitted to run the
 school(s) provided they are able to do so having regard to change of
 circumstances during pendency of instant matter as the students
 studying in those schools have been shifted to other schools.
 35.4. Disposed of as above along with connected CM(s).
 35.5. In view of above, the proceedings are dropped and contempt petitions
 are closed. (Tashi Rabstan)
 Chief Justice (Acting)
 SRINAGAR
 08.08.2024
 'Madan Verma-Secy'
 Whether the order is reportable: Yes/No. Madan Lal Verma 2024.08.08 12:34 I attest to the accuracy and 53 integrity of this document WP(C) no.3250/2023
 with connected matters