Represented by: Mr. Amit Gupta, APP for the State
 with Insp. Arun Kumar Chauhan, PS
 Kirti Nagar. CORAM: Learned APP further contends that one of the victims from U.S. has joined
the investigation who has been cheated to the tune of USD 6683.34 by the
petitioner and the co-accused. Considering the gravity of the offence and
that necessary investigation is still required to be carried out to unearth the
deep conspiracy and the magnitude of the offence, no anticipatory bail be
granted to the petitioner. 4. The above-noted FIR was registered after a secret information was
received on 25th March, 2021 in respect of an organized gang of cyber
criminals who were posing themselves to be Amazon Tech supporters
through VOIP calls over phone and engaging in cheating USA based
victims from 5/8, Industrial Area, Kirti Nagar, West Delhi. A raiding team
was constituted which raided the 2nd floor of the premises where several
callers were engaged in receiving the calls from international numbers. Two
persons Taranjot Singh and Krishna Gurung were identified as senior
executives supervising the activities of 13 other tele-callers, who were
attending the calls and were passing on directions to the callers. 5. As per the status report the said 15 accused were arrested and it was
revealed that the offence by the accused was committed in the manner,
beginning with a VICI Dial software generated pre-recorded threatening
robo-call claiming to be from Amazon, being sent to victim and telling the
recipient US resident that suspicious transactions have taken place in their Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:JUSTICE BAIL APPLN. 1644/2021 Page 3 of GUPTA MUKTA 8 Signing Date:04.06.2021 15:43:51 Amazon account and thereafter deceitfully persuading the victims to connect
with them via Remote Access Software for resolving that issue. The
victim's computer/ mobile remote access was connected to the software like
Quick Support, AnyDesk, etc., in the fictitious name of connecting victim to
secure Amazon server. Thereafter the victim was made to purchase e-Gift
cards (X-Box, Gpay etc.) through their Amazon account linked Credit/Debit
cards claiming that to be dummy transaction and part of verification process,
thereby persuading the victim to login into their internet banking for getting
Amazon refund amount resulting in the accused getting the information
regarding victim's banking credentials and making them transfer amount to
temporary Zelle accounts, crypto-currency wallets of the accused. E-mail
was then sent to the victim that they had been successfully granted refund
amount, finally sending the victim to store/supermarket for purchasing gift
pack (Target, Nike, Walmart, Google Play, Best Buy etc.) and conveying the
e-gift card numbers to the accused as part of refund process thereby
exploiting the victim financially and once the victim could not be further
duped the further calls were hung up. Since the accused connected with the
victim through spoofed VOIP numbers, the victim could neither call back
nor were the numbers traced. Thus, the magnitude of cheated amount is
huge, as presently the number of victims is unknown. One of the US
resident victims has joined the investigation and stated that he has been
cheated by the present centre for an amount of USD 6683.34. 6. From the spot 23 computers, Internet distribution switch, Internet
Routers, mobile phones, several pages of hand-written cheating script
booklet about the communication to be made to the victims for cheating,
telecommunication softwares, VOIP (Internet) calling dialers, incriminating Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:JUSTICE BAIL APPLN. 1644/2021 Page 4 of GUPTA MUKTA 8 Signing Date:04.06.2021 15:43:51 data in computers and mobile phones were recovered at the instance of the
15 accused arrested on 26th March, 2021. During the course of investigation
two other accused, namely, Balwan Singh Yadav (technical support & VOIP
software dialer provider) and Surender Pal Singh in whose name rent
agreement for the premises was entered into, were also arrested. According
to the investigation, the entire illegal operation was being carried out at the
instance of the petitioner and one more co-accused who had hired the 17
arrested accused in a pre-planned criminal conspiracy to cheat US victims.
The e-gift cards procured from the US victims deceitfully were converted
into Indian currency in cash by the present petitioner. The Zelle account/
US accounts/ crypto-currency wallets used to receive cheated amount were
also procured and under the control of the present petitioner. The mobile
phone of the petitioner was connected with the e-mail ID which was being
used at the alleged centre to deceive the victims and as per the co-accused
arrested, the petitioner was acting in the capacity of the owner of the centre.
On arrest of the co-accused screen-shots of the chats between the petitioner
and the co-accused were recovered which indicated that the petitioner used
to give instructions to the 15 accused present and working at the centre. 7. Accordng to the State, custodial interrogation of the petitioner is
required to unearth the source from which the petitioner procured the data of
US resident victims, Zelle accounts/ US bank accounts, crypto-currency
wallets (used to receive the cheated amount). The petitioner was the Admin
of the WhatsApp group of the centre, namely, $$SALES$$ which also
contains incriminating details of the cheated amount, crime methodology
and the role of the other co-accused. Since the petitioner could not be
arrested, his non-bailable warrants were sought from the learned Trial Court Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:JUSTICE BAIL APPLN. 1644/2021 Page 5 of GUPTA MUKTA 8 Signing Date:04.06.2021 15:43:51 which were granted on 13th May, 2021. The complete trail of money of the
cheated amount is also required to be identified and unearthed. Considering
the gravity of the offence, learned APP for the State submits that present is
not a case for grant of anticipatory bail as the petitioner is involved in a
serious offence which has ramifications internationally, as citizens of US
were cheated in a fraudulent manner by VOIP call by misleading the
victims, the material evidence in relation to the manner of cheating, the
procurement of data, the violations committed resulting in loss to the
Government exchequer are still to be unearthed. 8. Undoubtedly, the offences alleged against the petitioner are
punishable upto 7 years imprisonment, however the magnitude of offence is
enormous. In Arnesh Kumar (supra) relied upon by learned counsel for the
petitioner, Supreme Court dealt with Section 41 Cr.P.C. and emphasising on Section 41(1)(b) Cr.P.C. it was observed that when a person is accused of an
offence punishable with imprisonment for less than 7 years or which may
extend to 7 years with or without fine, not only has the Police officer to be
satisfied that the accused has committed the said offence, but he is also
required to be satisfied that the arrest of the accused is necessary to prevent
such person from committing any further offence, or for proper investigation
of the offence or to prevent such person from exploiting the evidence of the
offence to disappear or tamper such evidence in any manner or to prevent
such person from making any inducement, threat or promise to any person
acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing
such facts to the Court or the Police Officer, or unless such person is
arrested his presence in the Court whenever required cannot be ensured, and
the Police Officer shall record his reasons in writing while making such Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:JUSTICE BAIL APPLN. 1644/2021 Page 6 of GUPTA MUKTA 8 Signing Date:04.06.2021 15:43:51 arrest. Thus, the law does not mandate a blanket ban on arrest of accused
against whom there is a reasonable suspicion of commission of a cognizable
offence punishable with imprisonment for a term of less than 7 years or
which may extend to 7 years but requires that the Police officer should be
satisfied about the necessity of arrest on the conditions as noted in the sub-
clauses (a) to (e) and should record reasons for the same. Even the High
Powered Committee of this Court constituted under the directions of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court issued direction to scrupulously follow the
directions in the decision in Arnesh Kumar. 9. As noted above, not only is there prima facie material available with
the prosecution to show that the petitioner is involved in the alleged offence
as besides the statement of the co-accused from their WhatsApp chat it is
evident that the petitioner is giving them instructions, the investigation is at
a very preliminary stage when the entire conspiracy and the manner in
which various datas of the victims were collected and the money trail
pursuant to the cheating is required to be unearthed. Further, the losses to
the Government exchequer and the extent of cheating to the number of
victims involved is also required to be unearthed and based on this material
the investigating officer sought the non-bailable warrant of the petitioner
which has already been granted by the learned Trial Court vide its order
dated 13th May, 2021. 10. Learned counsel for the petitioner has vehemently relied on the fact
that the petitioner is working with M/s. Deans Infratech Pvt. Ltd. with its
offices at Delhi and Mumbai and the company is engaged in the road
construction business. Though this fact has been verified form the
Managing Director of the company who stated that the petitioner was Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:JUSTICE BAIL APPLN. 1644/2021 Page 7 of GUPTA MUKTA 8 Signing Date:04.06.2021 15:43:51 appointed in his company on 8th September, 2017 as Business Development
Manager and his work profile was to develop new business opportunities
throughout India without being physically based in any particular office
location, however, the petitioner's employment as Business Development
Manager with M/s. Deans Infratech Pvt. Ltd. does not lead to an inference
that the petitioner is not running a centre from which 15 employees and two
other co-accused have already been arrested. Further, the medical
documents filed by the petitioner have also been verified. However, the
medical report of the petitioner relate back to June 2016 whereafter a
medical prescription dated 23rd May, 2021 and report of the blood test
conducted on 22nd May, 2021 has been placed on record. The prescription
dated 23rd May, 2021 suggests tenderness in L-5 region and X-Ray and MRI
of lumbar spine has been prescribed which reports have not been placed on
record. The other ailments relied upon are relating to the eye, which
prescription date back to the year 2013 and the recent prescription is of 17 th
February, 2020 when two eye-drops were prescribed. Thus, even on the
medical condition this Court finds that there is nothing on record to suggest
that the petitioner is suffering from any co-morbidity which is likely to
affect him due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 11. In view of the discussion above, this Court finds no ground to grant
anticipatory bail to the petitioner. Petition is dismissed. 12. Order be uploaded on the website of this Court.