INDU MALHOTRA, J. 1 This case raises interesting issues with respect to the application of

 the doctrine of separability of an arbitration agreement from the underlying

 substantive contract in which it is embedded; whether an arbitration

 agreement would be non-existent in law, invalid or un-enforceable, if the

 underlying contract was not stamped as per the relevant Stamp Act ; and,

 whether allegations of fraudulent invocation of the bank guarantee furnished

 under the substantive contract, would be an arbitrable dispute. 1 1.1 The Respondent No.1-Indo Unique Flame Ltd. (“Indo Unique”)

 applied for grant of work of beneficiation/washing of coal to the Karnataka

 Power Corporation Ltd. (“KPCL”) in an open tender. KPCL awarded the

 Work Order vide letter of Award No.A1M1B3/Washed Coal/1052 dated

 18.09.2015 to Indo Unique. In pursuance of the Work Order dated 18.09.2015, the Respondent

 No.1 Company furnished Bank Guarantees for Rs.29.29 crores in favour of

 KPCL through its bankers, State Bank of India (“SBI”), the Respondent No.2

 herein. 1.2 Indo Unique, the Respondent No.1 herein, subsequently entered into

 a sub-contract termed as a Work Order dated 28.09.2015 with the Appellant

 Company – M/s. N.N. Global Mercantile Pvt. Ltd. (“Global Mercantile”), for

 the transportation of coal from its washery at Village Punwat, District

 Yavatmal to the stockyard, siding, coal handling and loading into the wagons

 at Pandharpaoni siding, District Chanderpur, Maharashtra. Clause 9 of the Work Order provided for furnishing a security deposit

 which reads as : The Bank Guarantee was extended from time to time, and was last

 extended on 10.11.2017. 1.4 Under the principal contract with KPCL dated 18.09.2015, certain

 disputes and differences arose with Indo Unique, which led to the invocation

 of the Bank Guarantee by KPCL on 06.12.2017. 1.5 Indo Unique, on 07.12.2017, invoked the Bank Guarantee furnished

 by Global Mercantile under the Work Order. It is the invocation of this Guarantee which has led to the present

 proceedings. 1.6 Global Mercantile filed a Civil (Commercial) Suit No.62 of 2017

 against Indo Unique, and its banker SBI, as also the banker of the Appellant

 i.e. the Union Bank of India (Respondent No.3 herein), before the

 Commercial Court, Nagpur praying inter alia for a declaration that Indo

 Unique was not entitled to encash the bank guarantee as the Work Order

 had not been acted upon. It was expressly stated that Indo Unique had not

 allotted any work under the Work Order, nor were any invoices raised, or

 payments made by it. Consequently, there was no loss suffered which would

 justify the invocation of the Bank Guarantee. It was alleged that the

 invocation of the Bank Guarantee was fraudulent, since it was not in terms 3 of the Work Order, being a conditional guarantee linked to the performance

 of work. The Commercial Court vide an ex parte ad interim Order dated

 15.12.2017 directed status-quo to be maintained with respect to the

 enforcement of the Bank Guarantee. 1.7 Indo Unique filed an application under Section 8 of the Arbitration and

 Conciliation Act, 1996 (“ Arbitration Act ”) in Civil (Commercial) Suit No.62 of

 2017, seeking reference of disputes to arbitration. Global Mercantile opposed the application under Section 8 as being

 not maintainable since the Bank Guarantee was a separate and

 independent contract, and did not contain any arbitration clause.

1.8 The Commercial Court vide Order dated 18.01.2018 rejected the

 application under Section 8 , and held that the arbitration clause in the Work

 Order dated 28.09.2015 was not a general arbitration clause, which would

 cover the Bank Guarantee. The Bank Guarantee was an independent

 contract between SBI and Union Bank of India for due performance of the

 contract. The Court noted the contention of Global Mercantile that neither

 of the parties had performed any part of the Work Order dated 28.09.2015,

 and consequently held that the jurisdiction of the Commercial Court was not

 ousted by the arbitration agreement. 1.9 Indo Unique then filed Civil Revision Petition No.9 of 2018 before the

 Bombay High Court challenging the Order passed by the Commercial Court. On an objection being raised on the maintainability of the Civil

 Revision Petition, the High Court vide Order dated 09.07.2020 permitted the 4 withdrawal of the Civil Revision Petition, with liberty to file a petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India. 1.10 Indo Unique filed W.P. No.1801 of 2020 before the Bombay High

 Court to quash and set aside the Order dated 18.01.2018 passed by the

 Commercial Court/District Judge-I, Nagpur in Civil (Commercial) Suit

 No.62/2017. The High Court vide the Impugned Judgment dated 30.09.2020 held

 that it was the admitted position that there was an arbitration agreement

 between the parties, and therefore the application under Section 8 was

 maintainable. With respect to the contention that the invocation of the Bank

 Guarantee was fraudulent, it was held that the allegations of fraud did not

 constitute a criminal offence which would entail recording of voluminous

 evidence. The disputes could be resolved through arbitration, and the filing

 of the Suit before the Commercial Court was not justified. The Commercial

 Court was not justified in restraining the invocation of the bank guarantee in

 the absence of any finding on fraud or special equities. On the issue of the arbitration agreement being unenforceable since

 the Work Order was unstamped, it was held that the plaintiff/ Appellant

 herein, could raise the issue either under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act,

 or before the arbitral tribunal at the appropriate stage. The Writ Petition was

 held to be maintainable, since there is no absolute bar to entertain a Writ

 Petition even if an alternate remedy is available. The Writ Petition was

 allowed vide Judgment and Order dated 30.09.2020, and the Order dated

 18.01.2018 passed by the Commercial Court was set aside. 5 On the request of the counsel for the Appellant, the High Court

 suspended the operation of its Order for a period of one month from

 30.09.2020. 1.11 The Review Petition filed by the Appellant was withdrawn vide Order

 dated 28.10.2020 passed in Review Application (ST) No. 9819 of 2020. On the request by the counsel for the Appellant, the Order of stay was

 continued till 20.11.2020. 1.12 Aggrieved by the judgment of the High Court, Global Mercantile has

 filed the present Special Leave Petition before this Court. 2. The issues which have arisen for our consideration are : We will now deal with each of these issues. 6 3 Validity of an arbitration agreement in an unstamped agreement

3.1 It is well settled in arbitration jurisprudence that an arbitration

 agreement is a distinct and separate agreement, which is independent from

 the substantive commercial contract in which it is embedded. This is based

 on the premise that when parties enter into a commercial contract containing

 an arbitration clause, they are entering into two separate agreements viz. (i)

 the substantive contract which contains the rights and obligations of the

 parties arising from the commercial transaction; and, (ii) the arbitration

 agreement which contains the binding obligation of the parties to resolve

 their disputes through the mode of arbitration. 3.2 The autonomy of the arbitration agreement is based on the twin

 concepts of separability and kompetenz – kompetenz. The doctrines of

 separability and kompetenz – kompetenz though inter-related, are distinct,

 and play an important role in promoting the autonomy of the arbitral process.

3.3 The doctrine of separability of the arbitration agreement connotes that

 the invalidity, ineffectiveness, or termination of the substantive commercial

 contract, would not affect the validity of the arbitration agreement, except if

 the arbitration agreement itself is directly impeached on the ground that the

 arbitration agreement is void ab initio. 3.4 The doctrine of kompetenz – kompetenz implies that the arbitral

 tribunal has the competence to determine and rule on its own jurisdiction,

 including objections with respect to the existence, validity, and scope of the

 arbitration agreement, in the first instance, which is subject to judicial

 scrutiny by the courts at a later stage of the proceedings. Under the 7 Arbitration Act , the challenge before the Court is maintainable only after the

 final award is passed as provided by sub-section (6) of Section 16 . The stage at which the order of the tribunal regarding its jurisdiction

 is amenable to judicial review, varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The

 doctrine of kompetenz – kompetenz has evolved to minimize judicial

 intervention at the pre-reference stage, and reduce unmeritorious

 challenges raised on the issue of jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal.

3.5 The doctrine of separability was expounded in the judgment of

 Heyman v. Darwins Ltd1 by the House of Lords wherein it was held that

 English common law had been evolving towards the recognition of an

 arbitration clause as a separate contract which survives the termination of

 the main contract. Lord Wright in his opinion stated that : “The arbitration clause constitutes a self-contained contract collateral or
 ancillary to the shipbuilding agreement itself.”

3.7 In Harbour Assurance v. Kansa General International Insurance,3

 the Court of Appeal held that if the arbitration clause is not directly

 impeached, an arbitration agreement is capable of surviving the invalidity of

 the contract, so that the arbitrator has the jurisdiction to determine the initial

 validity of the contract. It was opined that: “21. It is part of the very alphabet of arbitration law as explained in Harbour
 Assurance Co v. Kansa General International Insurance, … spelled out in s.
 7 of the Act, that the arbitration agreement is a distinct and separable
 agreement from the underlying or principal contract.”

3.9 Article 16(1) of the Model Law incorporates the doctrine of

 separability : The Court of Appeal in the seminal decision rendered in Fiona Trust

 & Holding Corporation v. Privalov,6 held that the allegation of invalidity of

 the underlying contract, would not preclude the arbitral tribunal from

 determining the said issue in the first instance, even though the alleged

 illegality would render the contract void from inception. In this case, the

 arbitration agreement was contained in a charter party agreement, wherein

 it was alleged that it had been procured through bribery by the owner’s

 agent, and was invalid from its inception. It was held that only if the

 arbitration agreement is itself directly impeached, and rendered void or

 unenforceable on grounds which relate to the arbitration agreement itself,

 and not merely as a consequence of the invalidity of the underlying contract,

5 Cass. Civ. Lere, 7 May 1963 (Dalloz, 1963), 545. 6 [2007] EWCA Civ 20. 10 that the courts may refuse reference to arbitration. To discourage parasitical

 challenges and dilatory tactics in resisting reference to arbitration, the Court

 of Appeal held in paragraph 38 that : 7 [2007] UKHL 40. 11 3.13 The law as it stands in U.K. today is that if the court while entertaining

 a plea to refer the parties to arbitration, is satisfied of the existence of the

 arbitration agreement, it is incumbent to refer the parties to arbitration, even

 if objections to the validity of the substantive contract are raised. Where the

 arbitration agreement is embedded in an underlying contract, the court

 would not entertain the dispute on the issue of jurisdiction until the arbitral

 tribunal has ruled on this issue. Lord Hoffman opined that : those provisions are enforceable apart from the remainder of the
 contract.” Buckeye Check Cashing, Inc. v. Cardegna, 546 US 440, 446
 (2006). ……

 The second line of cases bearing on who decides the validity of an arbitration
 agreement, as the Court explains, involves the Prima Paint rule. See ante, at 71. That rule recognizes two types of validity challenges. One type
 challenges the validity of the arbitration agreement itself, on a ground arising
 from an infirmity in that agreement. The other challenges the validity of the
 arbitration agreement tangentially—via a claim that the entire contract (of
 which the arbitration agreement is but a part) is invalid for some reason.
 See Buckeye, 546 U.S., at 444. Under Prima Paint, a challenge of the first
 type goes to the court; a challenge of the second type goes to the arbitrator.
 See 388 U.S., at 403-404; see also Buckeye, 546 U.S., at 444-445.
 The Prima Paint rule is akin to a pleading standard, whereby a party seeking
 to challenge the validity of an arbitration agreement must expressly say so in
 order to get his dispute into court.”

4 The Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 is based on the

 Model Law. Section 16 gives statutory recognition to the doctrine of

 separability and kompetenz – kompetenz. Section 16 provides : 4.2 This Court in Uttarakhand Purv Sainik Kalyan Nigam Ltd. v. Northern Coal Field Ltd.13, speaking through one of us (Indu Malhotra, J.)

 discussed the application of the doctrine of kompetenz – kompetenz in the

 Indian legislation, and observed : 7.11. The doctrine of “kompetenz-kompetenz”, also referred to as
 “compétence-compétence”, or “compétence de la recognized”, implies that
 the Arbitral Tribunal is empowered and has the competence to rule on its own
 jurisdiction, including determining all jurisdictional issues, and the existence
 or validity of the arbitration agreement. This doctrine is intended to minimise

13 (2020) 2 SCC 455. 15 judicial intervention, so that the arbitral process is not thwarted at the
 threshold, when a preliminary objection is raised by one of the parties. The
 doctrine of kompetenz-kompetenz is, however, subject to the exception i.e.
 when the arbitration agreement itself is impeached as being procured by
 fraud or deception. This exception would also apply to cases where the
 parties in the process of negotiation, may have entered into a draft agreement
 as an antecedent step prior to executing the final contract. The draft
 agreement would be a mere proposal to arbitrate, and not an unequivocal
 acceptance of the terms of the agreement. Section 7 of the Contract Act,
 1872 requires the acceptance of a contract to be absolute and unqualified
 [ Dresser Rand S.A. v. Bindal Agro Chem Ltd. , (2006) 1 SCC 751. See
 also BSNL v. Telephone Cables Ltd., (2010) 5 SCC 213 : (2010) 2 SCC (Civ) 352. Refer to PSA Mumbai Investments Pte. Ltd. v. Jawaharlal Nehru Port
 Trust , (2018) 10 SCC 525 : (2019) 1 SCC (Civ) 1] . If an arbitration agreement
 is not valid or non-existent, the Arbitral Tribunal cannot assume jurisdiction
 to adjudicate upon the disputes. Appointment of an arbitrator may be refused
 if the arbitration agreement is not in writing, or the disputes are beyond the
 scope of the arbitration agreement. Article V(1)(a) of the New York
 Convention states that recognition and enforcement of an award may be
 refused if the arbitration agreement “is not valid under the law to which the
 parties have subjected it or, failing any indication thereon, under the law of
 the country where the award was made”. 7.13. In view of the provisions of Section 16 , and the legislative policy to
 restrict judicial intervention at the pre-reference stage, the issue of limitation
 would require to be decided by the arbitrator. Sub-section (1) of Section 16 provides that the Arbitral Tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, “including
 any objections” with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration
 agreement. Section 16 is as an inclusive provision, which would comprehend
 all preliminary issues touching upon the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal.
 The issue of limitation is a jurisdictional issue, which would be required to be
 decided by the arbitrator under Section 16 , and not the High Court at the pre-
 reference stage under Section 11 of the Act. Once the existence of the
 arbitration agreement is not disputed, all issues, including jurisdictional
 objections are to be decided by the arbitrator.”

4.3 In A. Ayyasamy v. Parmasivam & Ors.,14 Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud,

 J. in his separate opinion observed that : 5. We will now apply the law to the facts of the present case.

5.1 The Appellant-Global Mercantile submitted that the application under Section 8 for reference of disputes to arbitration was not maintainable, since

 as per Section 34 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 the Work Order being

 an unstamped document could not be received in evidence for any purpose,

 or acted upon, unless it is duly stamped. Consequently, the arbitration

 clause in the unstamped agreement also could not be acted upon or

 enforced since the arbitration clause would have no existence in law, unless

 the applicable stamp duty (and penalty, if any) is paid on the Work Order.

 Reliance was placed on paragraph 22 of the judgment in Garware Wall

 Ropes Limited v. Coastal Marine Constructions and Engineering

 Limited,15 wherein it has been held : “.. that an arbitration clause in an

 agreement would not exist when it is not enforceable by law”. It was

 submitted that the High Court while allowing the application under Section

 8 , had enforced a non-existent arbitration clause, which was in violation of Section 34 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 and the law laid down by this Court. It was further contended that since 03.01.2018 to date, the

 Respondent No.1 had not indicated its willingness to pay the stamp duty,

 even though the Appellant had raised this objection. There was no justifiable

 reason to grant any further opportunity to Respondent No.1 to pay the stamp

 duty, and enforce the clause in view of the judgment of this Court in Naina

 Thakkar v. Annapurna Builders.16

15 (2019) 9 SCC 209. 16 (2013) 14 SCC 354. 17 5.2 Indo Unique – the Respondent No.1 submitted that even though the

 Work Order dated 28.09.2015 is an unstamped agreement, it would be

 enforceable after it is duly stamped, for which an opportunity must be given

 to the parties to make up the deficient stamp duty and penalty as may be

 assessed by the Collector. Non-payment of stamp duty would not render the

 agreement unenforceable, but was a curable defect.

5.3 Statutory scheme under the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 . — (a) Section 3 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 is the charging section, which

 specifies the instruments which are chargeable to stamp duty of the amount

 specified in Schedule I of the Act . Section 3 provides: Provided that, in case of such instruments executed on or after the
 4th July 1980, to the date of commencement of the Bombay Stamp
 (Amendment) Act, 1985, an extract of the instrument to be taken from the
 registration record shall be deemed to be the true copy accompanying
 the instrument, presented for registration for the purposes of sub-section
 (1). …“ (d) Section 33 provides: (1) Subject to the provisions of section 32A, every person having by law or
 consent of parties authority to receive evidence, and every person in
 charge of a public office, except an officer of police, or any other officer,
 empowered by law to investigate offences under any law for the time
 being in force, before whom any instrument, chargeable, in his opinion,
 with duty, is produced or comes in the performance of his functions shall,
 if it appears to him that such instrument is not duly stamped, impound the
 same irrespective whether the instrument is or is not valid in law.

 (2) For that purpose every such person shall examine every instrument so
 chargeable and so produced or coming before him in order to ascertain
 whether it is stamped with a stamp of the value and description required
 by the law for the time being in force in the State when such instrument
 was executed or first executed: Section 34 provides: (a) any such instrument shall, subject to all just exceptions, be admitted
 in evidence on payment of— (i) the duty with which the same is chargeable, or in the case of an
 instrument insufficiently stamped, the amount required to make up such duty,
 and (ii) a penalty at the rate of 2 per cent of the deficient portion of the stamp
 duty for every month or part thereof, from the date of execution of such
 instrument: (2) In every other case, a person so impounding the original instrument shall
 prepare an authentic copy of such instrument and where it is a true copy
 or an abstract referred to in section 31 or true copy referred to in section
 33A, he shall send such authentic copy or, the true copy or, as the case
 may be, an abstract to the Collector, for the purpose of taking action on
 the authentic copy or a true copy or, as the case may be, an abstract as
 if it were the original instrument and endorsing thereon a certificate with
 reference to the instrument under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section
 39 or under sub-section (1) of section 41 , as the case may be. On receipt
 of the authentic copy, the true copy or, as the case may be, an abstract
 with the certificate as aforesaid endorsed thereon, the person who has
 impounded the original instrument shall copy on the original instrument
 the certificate endorsed on the authentic copy and shall authenticate
 such certificate; and where it is a true copy or an abstract on which the
 certificate as aforesaid is endorsed, the registering officer who has
 forwarded the true copy or an abstract shall make appropriate entries in
 respect of the instrument of which it was a true copy or an abstract, in the
 relevant register maintained by him and on an application made in this
 behalf issue under his signature a certificate to the effect that the proper
 duty or, as the case may be, the proper duty and penalty (stating the
 amount of each) have been levied in respect of that instrument, and the
 name and residence of the person paying such duty and penalty.”

 Once the duty (and penalty, if any) leviable under Schedule I is paid

 on the instrument, and the instrument is duly endorsed by the Collector, the

 instrument shall be admissible in evidence, and acted upon as provided by Section 41 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act. (i) Section 41 provides : “ 41. Endorsement of instruments on which duty has been paid under section 34 , 39 or 40 –

 (1) When the duty and penalty (if any) leviable in respect of any instrument
 (not being any instrument referred to in sub-section (1) of section 32A),
 have been paid under section 34 , section 39 or section 40 , the person
 admitting such instrument in evidence or the Collector, as the case may
 be, shall certify by endorsement thereon that the proper duty or, as the
 case may be, the proper duty and penalty (stating the amount of each) 22 have been levied in respect thereof, and the name and residence of the
 person paying them. (2) Subject to the provisions of section 53A, every instrument so endorsed
 shall thereupon be admissible in evidence, and may be registered and
 acted upon and authenticated as if it had been duly stamped, and shall
 be delivered on the application in this behalf, to the person who produced
 it or to the person from whose possession it came into the hands of the
 Officer impounding it, or to any other person according to the directions
 of such person: i. the party or person concerned to make the payment of the
 proper duty or the amount required to make up the same,
 together with a penalty under section 34 , or payment of a higher
 duty and penalty than those paid, to itself or to the Collector; and

 ii. any person in whose possession or power such instrument then
 is, to produce the same, and may impound the same when
 produced. (3) When any declaration has been recorded under sub-section (2), the
 Court recording the same shall send a copy thereof to the Collector, and,
 where the instrument to which it relates has been impounded or is
 otherwise in the possession of such Court, shall also send him such
 instrument. 23 (3A) When the duty and penalty leviable in respect of any instrument in
 accordance with, the declaration made under sub -section (3) and
 required to be paid thereunder are paid to the Court or to the Collector,
 then the Court or, as the case may be, the Collector shall certify by
 endorsement thereon that the proper duty and penalty, stating the
 amount of each, have been le-vied in respect of such instrument, and
 the name and residence of the person paying the same.

 (3B) Every instrument so endorsed shall thereupon be delivered, on an
 application in this behalf, to the person from whose possession the
 instrument came in the possession of such Court, or as such person
 may direct, to any other person authorised by him. (4) The Collector may thereupon, notwithstanding anything contained in
 the order admitting such instrument in evidence, or in any certificate
 granted under section 41 , or in section 42 , prosecute any person for any
 offence against the stamp law which the Collector considers him to have
 committed in respect of such instrument: The words “for any purpose” occurring in the Indian Stamp Act was

 interpreted by the Privy Council in Ram Rattan v. Parma Nand,19 wherein

 it was held : Pvt. Ltd.20 considered the issue whether an arbitration agreement in an

 unregistered and unstamped lease deed, which required compulsory

 registration under Sections 17 and 19 of the Registration Act 1908, was valid

 and enforceable, being a part of the said lease deed which was invalid and

 unenforceable. A two-judge bench of this Court considered the following two

 issues : With respect to the first issue, the Court held as follows : 20(2011) 14 SCC 66. Followed in Naina Thakkar v. Annapurna Builders, (2013) 14 SCC 354. 26 13. Similarly, when an instrument or deed of transfer (or a document affecting
 immovable property) contains an arbitration agreement, it is a collateral term
 relating to resolution of disputes, unrelated to the transfer or transaction
 affecting the immovable property. It is as if two documents—one affecting the
 immovable property requiring registration and the other relating to resolution
 of disputes which is not compulsorily registerable—are rolled into a single
 instrument. Therefore, even if a deed of transfer of immovable property is
 challenged as not valid or enforceable, the arbitration agreement would
 remain unaffected for the purpose of resolution of disputes arising with
 reference to the deed of transfer. … 16. An arbitration agreement does not require registration under the Registration Act . Even if it is found as one of the clauses in a contract or
 instrument, it is an independent agreement to refer the disputes to arbitration,
 which is independent of the main contract or instrument. Therefore having
 regard to the proviso to Section 49 of the Registration Act read with Section
 16(1)(a) of the Act, an arbitration agreement in an unregistered but
 compulsorily registerable document can be acted upon and enforced for the
 purpose of dispute resolution by arbitration.”

 With respect to a contract or instrument which is voidable at the

option of a party (as by way of illustration u/S. 19 of the Indian Contract

Act, 1872) in paragraph 15 of the judgment, it was held that the invalidity

which attaches itself to the main agreement, may also attach itself to

the arbitration agreement, if the reasons which make the main

agreement voidable, exist in relation to the making of the arbitration

agreement also. Paragraph 15 reads as follows : Boghara Polyfab22, Master Construction Company v. Union of India23

 etc. held that at the pre-reference stage in an application u/S. 11(6) , the

 Court may determine certain threshold issues, such as whether the claim

 was time-barred, a stale claim, or whether there had been accord and

 satisfaction, which would preclude the necessity of reference to arbitration.

 5.8 Section 11 was amended by the 2016 Amendment Act, which

 inserted clause (6A), which now provides that notwithstanding any

 judgment, decree or order of any Court, the examination would be confined

 only to the existence of an arbitration agreement. The amendment of 2016

 legislatively overruled the position with respect to the jurisdiction u/S. 11 of

 21 (2005) 8 SCC 618. 22 (2009) 1 SCC 267. 23 (2011) 12 SCC 357. 28 the Arbitration Act , and confined the examination only to the existence of

 an arbitration agreement. In Duro Felguera v. Gangavaram Port Ltd.24 it

 was held that the legislative intent was clear that at the pre-reference stage,

 there must be minimal judicial intervention, and the only issue to be decided

 would be the existence of the arbitration agreement, and nothing more. This

 position was affirmed by a three-judge bench in Mayavati Trading Private

 Limited v. Pradyuat Deb Burman.25 5.9 The issue whether an arbitration clause in a document / agreement /

 conveyance which requires compulsorily to be stamped under the relevant Stamp Act , but is not duly stamped, would be enforceable after the insertion

 of clause (6A) in Section 11 , came up for consideration before a two-judge

 bench of this Court in Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. (supra). In Garware Wall Ropes Limited (supra), the Court held as under: by Raveendran, J. in SMS Tea Estates when it comes to an unregistered
agreement or conveyance. However, the Stamp Act, containing no such provision as is contained in Section 49 of the Registration Act, 1908, has been held by the said judgment to apply to the agreement or conveyance as a whole, which would include
the arbitration clause contained therein. It is clear, therefore, that the
introduction of Section 11 (6-A) does not, in any manner, deal with or get over
the basis of the judgment in SMS Tea Estates, which continues to apply even
after the amendment of Section 11 (6-A). … 22. When an arbitration clause is contained “in a contract”, it is significant that
the agreement only becomes a contract if it is enforceable by law. We have
seen how, under the Stamp Act , an agreement does not become a contract,
namely, that it is not enforceable in law, unless it is duly stamped. Therefore,
even a plain reading of Section 11 (6-A), when read with Section 7(2) of the
1996 Act and Section 2(h) of the Contract Act, would make it clear that an
arbitration clause in an agreement would not exist when it is not enforceable
by law. This is also an indicator that SMS Tea Estates has, in no manner,
been touched by the amendment of Section 11 (6-A). … 29. This judgment in Hyundai Engg. case [ United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v.
Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. , (2018) 17 SCC 607 : (2019) 2 SCC
(Civ) 530] is important in that what was specifically under consideration was
an arbitration clause which would get activated only if an insurer admits or
accepts liability. Since on facts it was found that the insurer repudiated the
claim, though an arbitration clause did “exist”, so to speak, in the policy, it
would not exist in law, as was held in that judgment, when one important fact
is introduced, namely, that the insurer has not admitted or accepted liability.
Likewise, in the facts of the present case, it is clear that the arbitration clause
that is contained in the sub-contract would not “exist” as a matter of law until
the sub-contract is duly stamped, as has been held by us above. The
argument that Section 11(6-A) deals with “existence”, as opposed to Section
8, Section 16 and Section 45, which deal with “validity” of an arbitration
agreement is answered by this Court's understanding of the expression
“existence” in Hyundai Engg. case [United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v.
Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd., (2018) 17 SCC 607 : (2019) 2 SCC
(Civ) 530] , as followed by us. …. 37. One reasonable way of harmonising the provisions contained in Sections
33 and 34 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, which is a general statute insofar
as it relates to safeguarding revenue, and Section 11(13) of the 1996 Act,
which applies specifically to speedy resolution of disputes by appointment of
an arbitrator expeditiously, is by declaring that while proceeding with the Section 11 application, the High Court must impound the instrument which
has not borne stamp duty and hand it over to the authority under the Maharashtra Stamp Act , who will then decide issues qua payment of stamp
duty and penalty (if any) as expeditiously as possible, and preferably within
a period of 45 days from the date on which the authority receives the
instrument. As soon as stamp duty and penalty (if any) are paid on the
instrument, any of the parties can bring the instrument to the notice of the
High Court, which will then proceed to expeditiously hear and dispose of the Section 11 application. This will also ensure that once a Section 11 application is allowed and an arbitrator is appointed, the arbitrator can then
proceed to decide the dispute within the time-frame provided by Section 29-
A of the 1996 Act.”
 (emphasis supplied) 30 6 We have carefully perused the provisions of the Maharashtra Stamp

 Act, 1958 and Schedule I appended thereto, which enlists the instruments

 specified in Section 3 , on which stamp duty is chargeable. We find that an

 arbitration agreement is not included in the Schedule as an instrument

 chargeable to Stamp Duty. Item 12 of Schedule I to the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 includes

 an Award passed by an arbitrator to be chargeable for payment of Stamp

 Duty, which reads as follows: Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty 12. AWARD, that is to say, any decision in writing by an
 arbitrator or umpire, not being an award directing a
 partition, on a reference made otherwise than by an
 order of the Court in the course of a suit- (a) where the amount of value of the property to which The same duty as a Bond
 the award relates as set forth in such award does not (No. 15) for such amount.
 exceed Rs. 1,000; Award under the Bombay District Municipal Act, 1873,
 section 81, or the Bombay Hereditary Offices Act, 1874 , section 18 . In Shriram EPC Limited v. Rioglass Solar SA,26 this Court held that

 the payment of Stamp Duty is applicable to awards made in India, but does

 not include a “foreign award” which has not been included in the Schedule

 to the Stamp Act, 1899 . 6.1 The issue which has arisen in the present case is whether the

 arbitration agreement incorporated in the unstamped Work Order dated

26 (2018) 18 SCC 313. 31 28.09.2015, would also be legally unenforceable, till such time that the Work

 Order is subjected to payment of Stamp Duty. Undisputedly, the Work Order

 is chargeable to payment of Stamp Duty under Item No. 63 of the First

 Schedule to the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 . 6.2 In our view, the non-payment or deficiency of Stamp Duty on the Work

 Order does not invalidate the main contract. Section 34 provides that an

 unstamped instrument would not be admissible in evidence, or be acted

 upon, till the requisite stamp duty is paid. This would amount only to a

 deficiency, which can be cured on the payment of the requisite stamp duty.

6.3 The point for consideration is whether the non-payment of Stamp

 Duty on the Work Order, would render the arbitration clause invalid, non-

 existent, or unenforceable in law, till the stamp duty is paid on the

 substantive commercial contract. 6.4 The arbitration agreement contained in the Work Order is

 independent and distinct from the underlying commercial contract. The

 arbitration agreement is an agreement which provides the mode of dispute

 resolution. Section 3 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act does not subject an

 arbitration agreement to payment of Stamp Duty, unlike various other

 agreements enlisted in the Schedule to the Act . This is for the obvious

 reason that an arbitration agreement is an agreement to resolve disputes

 arising out of a commercial agreement, through the mode of arbitration. On

 the basis of the doctrine of separability, the arbitration agreement being a

 separate and distinct agreement from the underlying commercial contract,

 would survive independent of the substantive contract. The arbitration 32 agreement would not be rendered invalid, un-enforceable or non-existent,

 even if the substantive contract is not admissible in evidence, or cannot be

 acted upon on account of non-payment of Stamp Duty. 6.5 A three-Judge Bench of this Court in Hindustan Steel Limited v. M/s. Dilip Construction Company27 held that : 7. The Stamp Act is a fiscal measure enacted to secure revenue for the State
 on certain classes of instruments: It is not enacted to arm a litigant with a
 weapon of technicality to meet the case of his opponent. The stringent
 provisions of the Act are conceived in the interest of the revenue once that
 object is secured according to law, the party staking his claim on the
 instrument will not be defeated on the ground of the initial defect in the

27 (1969) 1 SCC 597. 33 instrument. Viewed in that light the scheme is clear. Section 35 of the Stamp
 Act operates as a bar to an unstamped instrument being admitted in evidence
 or being acted upon; Section 40 provides the procedure for instruments being
 impounded, sub-section (1) of Section 42 provides for certifying that an
 instrument is duly stamped, and sub-section (2) of Section 42 enacts the
 consequences resulting from such certification.”
 (emphasis supplied)

6.6 In our view, there is no legal impediment to the enforceability of the

 arbitration agreement, pending payment of Stamp Duty on the substantive

 contract. The adjudication of the rights and obligations under the Work

 Order or the substantive commercial contract would however not proceed

 before complying with the mandatory provisions of the Stamp Act .

6.7 The Stamp Act is a fiscal enactment for payment of stamp duty to the

 State on certain classes of instruments specified in the Stamp Act . Section

 40 of the Indian Stamp Act,1899 provides the procedure for instruments

 which have been impounded, and sub-section (1) of Section 42 requires the

 instrument to be endorsed after it is duly stamped by the concerned

 Collector. Section 42(2) provides that after the document is duly stamped, it

 shall be admissible in evidence, and may be acted upon.

6.8 In our view, the decision in SMS Tea Estates does not lay down the

 correct position in law on two issues i.e. (i) that an arbitration agreement in

 an unstamped commercial contract cannot be acted upon, or is rendered

 un-enforceable in law; and (ii) that an arbitration agreement would be invalid

 where the contract or instrument is voidable at the option of a party, such as

 u/ S. 19 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. We hold that since the arbitration agreement is an independent

 agreement between the parties, and is not chargeable to payment of stamp

 duty, the non-payment of stamp duty on the commercial contract, would not 34 invalidate the arbitration clause, or render it un-enforceable, since it has an

 independent existence of its own. The view taken by the Court on the issue

 of separability of the arbitration clause on the registration of the substantive

 contract, ought to have been followed even with respect to the Stamp Act .

 The non-payment of stamp duty on the substantive contract would not

 invalidate even the main contract. It is a deficiency which is curable on the

 payment of the requisite Stamp Duty. 6.9 The second issue in SMS Tea Estates that a voidable contract would

 not be arbitrable as it affects the validity of the arbitration agreement, is in

 our view not the correct position in law. The allegations made by a party that

 the substantive contract has been obtained by coercion, fraud, or

 misrepresentation has to be proved by leading evidence on the issue. These

 issues can certainly be adjudicated through arbitration. We overrule the judgment in SMS Tea Estates with respect to the

 aforesaid two issues as not laying down the correct position in law.

6.10 The Garware judgment has followed the judgment in SMS Tea

 Estates. The Counsel for the Appellant has placed reliance on paragraph

 22 of the judgment to contend that the arbitration clause would be non-

 existent in law, and unenforceable, till Stamp Duty is adjudicated and paid

 on the substantive contract. We hold that this finding is erroneous, and does not lay down the

 correct position in law. We have already held that an arbitration agreement

 is distinct and independent from the underlying substantive commercial

 contract. Once the arbitration agreement is held to have an independent 35 existence, it can be acted upon, irrespective of the alleged invalidity of the

 commercial contract. 6.11 We notice that the judgment in Garware Wall Ropes Limited has

 been cited with approval by a co-ordinate bench of this Court in Vidya Drolia

 & Ors. v. Durga Trading Corporation.28 Paragraph 92 of the judgment

 reads thus : subcontract would not “exist” as a matter of law until the sub-contract
 is duly stamped, as has been held by us above. The argument that Section 11(6A) deals with “existence”, as opposed to Section 8 , Section 16 and Section 45 , which deal with “validity” of an arbitration
 agreement is answered by this Court's understanding of the
 expression “existence” in Hyundai Engg. case, as followed by us.”

 Existence and validity are intertwined, and arbitration agreement does not exist
 if it is illegal or does not satisfy mandatory legal requirements. Invalid agreement
 is no agreement.”

6.12 We doubt the correctness of the view taken in paragraph 92 of the

 three-judge bench in Vidya Drolia. We consider it appropriate to refer the

 findings in paras 22 and 29 of Garware Wall Ropes Limited, which has

 been affirmed in paragraph 92 of Vidya Drolia, to a Constitution Bench of

 five judges. 7 The next issue which arises is as to which authority would exercise

 the power of impounding the instrument under Section 33 read with Section

 34 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, in a case where the substantive contract

 contains an arbitration agreement. 7.1 In an arbitration agreement, the disputes may be referred to

 arbitration by three modes. a) The first mode is where the appointment of the arbitrator takes

 place by the parties consensually in accordance with the terms of the

 arbitration agreement, or by a designated arbitral institution, without

 the intervention of the court. In such a case, the arbitrator / tribunal is

 obligated by Section 33 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (or the

 applicable State Act) to impound the instrument, and direct the parties

 to pay the requisite Stamp Duty (and penalty, if any), and obtain an

 endorsement from the concerned Collector. 37 This would be evident from the provisions of Section 34 of the

 Stamp Act which provides that “any person having by law or consent

 of parties authority to receive evidence” is mandated by law to

 impound the instrument, and direct the parties to pay the requisite

 stamp duty. b) The second mode of appointment is where the parties fail to

 make the appointment in accordance with the arbitration agreement,

 and an application is filed under Section 11 before the Court to invoke

 the default power for making the appointment. In such a case, the High Court, or the Supreme Court, as the

 case may be, while exercising jurisdiction under Section 11 , would

 impound the substantive contract which is either unstamped or

 inadequately stamped, and direct the parties to cure the defect before

 the arbitrator / tribunal can adjudicate upon the contract. c) The third mode is when an application is filed under Section 8 before a judicial authority for reference of disputes to arbitration, since

 the subject matter of the contract is covered by an arbitration

 agreement. In such a case, the judicial authority will make the

 reference to arbitration. However, in the meanwhile, the parties would

 be directed to have the substantive contract stamped in accordance

 with the provisions of the relevant Stamp Act , so that the rights and

 obligations emanating from the substantive contract can be

 adjudicated upon. 38 7.2 In the case of an application under Section 9 of the Arbitration Act,

 1996 the situation would be different. If an application for urgent interim

 reliefs is filed under Section 9 before the Court, and it is brought to the

 attention of the Court that the substantive contract is not duly stamped, the

 Court would grant ad-interim relief to safeguard the subject-matter of the

 arbitration. However, the substantive contract would then be impounded,

 and the concerned party be directed to take the necessary steps for

 payment of the requisite stamp duty in accordance with the provisions of the

 relevant Stamp Act , within a time-bound period. It is made clear that the payment of Stamp Duty on the substantive

 contract as assessed by the Collector, would however be subject to the right

 of revision / appeal available under the relevant Stamp Act .

8 Whether the fraudulent invocation of the Bank Guarantee is arbitrable?

 8.1 In the present case, the Appellant-Plaintiff in the Commercial Suit

 inter alia submitted that the Bank Guarantee was furnished to ensure due

 execution of the Work Order dated 28.09.2015. It was submitted on behalf

 of the Appellants that the invocation of the bank guarantee was fraudulent,

 since the agreement had never been acted upon. There was no invoice

 raised or payment received under the Work Order. In the absence of any

 legal liability for payment under the Work Order, the invocation of the bank

 guarantee was fraudulent. 8.2 The High Court held that the allegations of fraud made in this case

 are simple, which do not in the normal course constitute any criminal 39 offence, nor are the allegations so complex in nature which would entail

 extensive evidence being led, hence the disputes could be resolved

 through arbitration. 8.3 Under the Arbitration Act , the earliest decision on the issue of

 arbitrability of allegations of fraud was considered by a two-judge bench in

 N. Radhakrishnan v. Maestro Engineers.29 In this case, the applicant had

 made serious allegations against the respondents of having committed

 malpractices in the account books, and manipulation of finances of the

 partnership firm. An application under Section 8 was filed by the

 respondents for reference of disputes to arbitration. The Court took the view

 that since the issues involved detailed investigation into the allegations and

 production of elaborate evidence, it could not be properly dealt by an

 arbitrator, and ought to be settled by a court of law. This decision relied on

 the judgment in Abdul Kadir v. Madhav Prabhakar,30 which was passed

 under the 1940 Act. The judgment in Abdul Kadir in turn relied upon an

 English judgment rendered in Russel v. Russel,31 wherein it was held that

 a party against whom an allegation of fraud is made, has the right to defend

 himself in a public forum. 8.4 The judgment in N. Radhakrishnan (supra) is based on an outdated

 view of the law propounded in Russel v. Russel , which ante-dates even the

 first English Arbitration Act of 1899. Arbitrability of fraud is no longer an issue

29 (2010) 1 SCC 72. Followed in Ivory Properties & Hotels Pvt. Ltd. v. Nusli Neville Wadia , 2011 (2) Arb LR 479 (Bom);
 See also article by Justice D.R. Dhanuka (Retd.) reported in Journal Section of 2010 (2) Arb LR 13; RRB Energy Ltd. v. Vestas Wind System & Ors. , (2015) 219 DLT 516.
30 AIR 1962 SC 406: [1962] 3 SCR 702. 31 [1880] 14 Ch. D 471. 40 relating to the competence of the arbitrator, or dealing with voluminous

 evidence. Arbitrators are competent to deal with allegations of civil fraud.

 The judgment in Russel is obsolete, which would be evident from the various

 enactments of the English Arbitration Act . Under Section 24(2) of the 1950

 Act, the court could revoke the authority of a tribunal to deal with claims

 involving issues of fraud. This provision was repealed by Section 107(2) of

 the English Arbitration Act, 1996 Act. Russel in his Commentary on

 Arbitration observed that an arbitral tribunal does not have the jurisdiction

 to impose criminal sanctions on a party, its power is limited to the civil

 consequences of fraud.32

8.5 In Bharat Rasiklal Ashra v. Gautam Rasiklal Ashra,33 a two-judge

 bench took a different view by holding that at the pre-reference stage under Section 11 , the court is not required to examine the allegations of fraud and

 forgery. The scope of examination is only the existence of a valid and

 enforceable arbitration agreement as a condition precedent for making a

 reference. The ground that allegations of fraud, forgery and fabrication are

 likely to involve recording of evidence, or involve some delay in disposal,

 were not relevant grounds to be considered at the pre-reference stage.

 8.6 The legislature amended sub-section (1) of Section 8 to provide that

 a judicial authority shall refer the parties to arbitration, ‘unless it finds that

 prima facie no valid agreement exists’. The amended Section 8 reads : arbitration agreement or any person claiming through or under him, so
 applies not later than the date of submitting his first statement on the
 substance of the dispute, then, notwithstanding any judgment, decree or
 order of the Supreme Court or any Court, refer the parties to arbitration unless
 it finds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists.
 (2) …
 (3) … ”

 The issue of arbitrability of fraud was subsequently considered by a

 two-judge bench in A. Ayyasamy v. A. Paramasivam & Ors.34 . The Court

 held that Section 8 mandates reference to arbitration, unless the arbitration

 agreement is found to be invalid. It has been recognised that certain

 categories of disputes which are of public nature, are not capable of

 adjudication and settlement by arbitration, which is a private forum

 constituted by consent of parties. The Court made a distinction between cases where there are

 allegations of serious fraud and fraud simplicitor. Mere allegations of fraud

 simplicitor are not a sufficient ground to decline reference to arbitration.

 Parties may be referred to arbitration where allegations of fraud pertain to

 disputes between parties inter se, and have no implication for third parties.

 The courts may, however, refuse to make a reference to arbitration only in

 those cases where there are very serious allegations of fraud, which make a

 virtual case of criminal offence of fraud, or where allegations of fraud are so

 complicated, that it becomes absolutely essential that such complex issues

 be decided only by the civil courts on appreciation of voluminous evidence.

 This would also include those cases where there are serious allegations of

34 (2016) 10 SCC 386. 42 forgery or fabrication of documents, or where fraud is alleged with respect to

 the arbitration clause itself, or where the fraud alleged is of such a nature

 that it permeates the entire contract, including the agreement to arbitrate.

 The judicial authority must carefully sift the materials for the purpose of

 determining whether the defence is merely a pretext to avoid arbitration. It

 was opined that the Arbitration Act must be interpreted to bring it in

 consonance with the prevailing arbitration jurisprudence in the common law

 world. 8.7 The judgment in Ayyasamy (supra) was followed in Rashid Raza v. Sadaf Akhtar,35 wherein the twin test laid down in para 25 of Ayyasamy

 was followed i.e. : (i) does the plea of fraud permeate the entire contract and

 above all, the agreement of arbitration, rendering it void, or (ii) whether the

 allegations of fraud touch upon the internal affairs of the parties inter se

 having no implication in the public domain. 8.8 In the subsequent decision of Ameet Lalchand Shah & Ors. v. Rishabh Enterprises & Anr.,36 allegations of fraud arising from criminal

 breach of trust and misrepresentation regarding the equipment procured

 and leased for the setting up and operating of a Photovoltaic solar plant

 were made. A civil suit was filed praying for a declaration that all the

 agreements were vitiated by fraud and misrepresentation. An application

 was filed under Section 8 seeking reference of the disputes to arbitration

 under all the four agreements. This Court held that only where the court is

35 (2019) 8 SCC 710. 36 (2018) 15 SCC 678. 43 satisfied that the allegations of fraud are serious and complicated in nature,

 would it be more appropriate for the court to deal with the subject matter of

 the disputes, rather than relegate the parties to arbitration. It is the duty of

 the court to impart a sense of business efficacy to commercial transactions,

 and mere allegations of fraud would not be sufficient to decline reference of

 disputes to arbitration. 8.9 In a recent judgment delivered in Avitel Post Studioz Ltd. & Ors. v. HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius Limited),37 which pertains to an international

 commercial contract, the issue of arbitrability of fraud arose for

 consideration. This Court held that the same set of facts may have civil as

 well criminal consequences. If it is clear that a civil dispute involves

 questions of fraud, misrepresentation, etc. which can be the subject matter

 of a proceeding under Section 17 of the Indian Contract, 1872, and/or the

 tort of deceit, the mere fact that criminal proceedings can or have been

 instituted in respect of the same subject matter, would not lead to the

 conclusion that a dispute which is otherwise arbitrable, ceases to be so. This view has been affirmed by a co-ordinate bench in Deccan Paper

 Mills v. Regency Mahavir38 and Vidya Drolia & Others v. Durga Trading

 Corporation39 . 8.10 In our view, all civil or commercial disputes, either contractual or non- contractual, which can be adjudicated upon by a civil court, in principle, can

37 (2020) SCCOnLine SC 656. 38 (2020) SCCOnLine SC 655. 39 Civil Appeal No.2402 of 2019 decided vide Judgment dated 14.12.2020. 44 be adjudicated and resolved through arbitration, unless it is excluded either

 expressly by statute, or by necessary implication. The Arbitration and

 Conciliation Act, 1996 does not exclude any category of disputes as being

 non arbitrable. Section 2(3) of the Arbitration Act however recognizes that

 certain categories of disputes by law may not be submitted to arbitration.40

 In all jurisdictions, certain categories of disputes are reserved by the

 legislature, as a matter of public policy, to be adjudicated by a court of law,

 since they lie in the realm of public law. 8.11 Traditionally, disputes relating to rights in rem are required to be

 adjudicated by courts and / or statutory tribunals. A right in rem is a right

 exercisable against the world at large. Actions in rem refer to actions which

 create a legal status such as citizenship, divorce, testamentary and probate

 issues, etc. A lis in rem is not arbitrable by a private tribunal constituted by

 the consent of parties. Actions in personam determine the rights and

 interests of parties to the subject matter of the dispute, which are arbitrable. The broad categories of disputes which are considered to be non

 arbitrable are penal offences which are visited with criminal sanction;

 offences pertaining to bribery / corruption; matrimonial disputes relating to

 divorce, judicial separation, restitution of conjugal rights, child custody and

 guardianship matters, which pertain to the status of a person; testamentary

 matters which pertain to disputes relating to the validity of a Will, grant of 40 Section 2(3) . This Part shall not affect any other law for the time being in force by virtue of which certain disputes
may not be submitted to arbitration. 45 probate, letters of administration, succession, which pertain to the status of

 a person, and are adjudicated by civil courts. Certain categories of disputes such as consumer disputes41;

 insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings; oppression and mismanagement,

 or winding up of a company; disputes relating to trusts, trustees and

 beneficiaries of a trust42 are governed by special enactments. This Court in Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc. v. SBI Home Finance

 Ltd.43 has recognized some examples of disputes which are not arbitrable,

 and held that : 42 Vimal Kishor Shah & Others v. Jayesh Dinesh Shah & Others . (2016) 8 SCC 788.
43 (2011) 5 SCC 532. 44 Section 10 . What agreements are contracts.—All agreements are contracts if they are made by the free consent of

parties competent to contract, for a lawful consideration and with a lawful object, and are not hereby expressly declared
to be void. 46 entered into by a minor (without following the procedure prescribed under the Guardian and Wards Act, 1890 ) or a lunatic, which would be with a party

 incompetent to enter into a contract. 8.13 The civil aspect of fraud can be adjudicated by an arbitral tribunal. The civil aspect of fraud is defined by Section 17 of the Indian Contract Act,

 1872 as follows : Voidable agreements are defined by Section 19 of the Contract Act as : Even though Swiss Timing Ltd. was a decision of a designate of the

 Chief Justice under Section 11 of the 1996 Act (prior to the Amendment), and

45 (2014) 6 SCC 677. 48 would have no precedential value in view of the judgment of this Court in State

 of West Bengal v. Associated Contractors,46 the reasoning in Swiss

 Timing Ltd. has been cited with approval by this Court in Avitel Post Studioz

 Ltd. & Ors. v. HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius Limited )47.

8.16 The ground on which fraud was held to be non arbitrable earlier was

 that it would entail voluminous and extensive evidence, and would be too

 complicated to be decided in arbitration. In contemporary arbitration practice,

 arbitral tribunals are required to traverse through volumes of material in

 various kinds of disputes such as oil, natural gas, construction industry, etc.

 The ground that allegations of fraud are not arbitrable is a wholly archaic view,

 which has become obsolete, and deserves to be discarded. However, the

 criminal aspect of fraud, forgery, or fabrication, which would be visited with

 penal consequences and criminal sanctions can be adjudicated only by a court

 of law, since it may result in a conviction, which is in the realm of public law.48

8.17 In the present case, the allegations of fraud with respect to the

 invocation of the Bank Guarantee are arbitrable, since it arises out of

 disputes between parties inter se, and is not in the realm of public law.

9 Maintainability of the Writ Petition

9.1 We are of the view that the Writ Petition filed by the Respondent No.

 1 to challenge the Order dated 18.01.2018 passed by the Special

 Commercial Court / District Judge-I in Commercial Dispute No. 62/2017 was

46 (2015) 1 SCC 32. 47 (2020) SCCOnLine SC 656. 48 Malhotra’s Commentary on the Law of Arbitration, [4th ed., Wolters Kluwer (2020)], p.339, Volume I. 49 not maintainable, since a statutory remedy under the amended Section 37 of

 the Arbitration Act is available. Section 37(1) has been amended by Act 3 of

 201649. Section 37(1)(a) provides for an appeal to be filed against an Order

 refusing to refer the parties to arbitration. Section 37(1)(a) reads as : 49 which came into effect on 23.10.2015. 50 In view of the availability of a statutory remedy, the judgment of the

 High Court passed under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution is liable to

 be set aside on the ground of maintainability. 10 In the present case, since both parties have admitted the existence

 of the arbitration agreement between the parties, as recorded in the

 judgment of the High Court, and even before this Court during oral

 submissions, parties may either appoint a sole arbitrator consensually;

 failing which, an application u/S. 11 for appointment of the arbitrator may be

 made before the High Court. 11 In view of the discussion hereinabove, we hold that : The Stamp Duty assessed by the Collector will, however,

 be subject to the statutory right available to file a revision / appeal

 under the Maharashtra Stamp Act . (iv) With respect to the invocation of the Bank Guarantee, the

 Appellant may seek interim relief u/S. 9 of the Arbitration and

 Conciliation Act, 1996. We extend the stay granted by the High Court for a further

 period of eight weeks. 12 We are of the considered view that the finding in SMS Tea Estates and

 Garware that the non-payment of stamp duty on the commercial contract would

 invalidate even the arbitration agreement, and render it non-existent in law, and

 un-enforceable, is not the correct position in law. In view of the finding in paragraph 92 of the judgment in Vidya Drolia by

 a co-ordinate bench, which has affirmed the judgment in Garware, the

 aforesaid issue is required to be authoritatively settled by a Constitution bench

 of this Court. We consider it appropriate to refer the following issue, to be

 authoritatively settled by a Constitution bench of five judges of this Court :