Through Mr. Ravinder Sharma, Adv. for UOI

 CORAM: 2. According to the detention order, intelligence was received by DRI
that some one answering to the petitioner's description would be alighting
from the Brahmputra Mail scheduled to arrive at Delhi Railway Station on
05.07.2010 at around 6 AM. Apart from the description, information
received also was specific as to the kind of clothes he was wearing. A team

W.P. (CRL) 167/2012 Page 1
 was constituted which included independent witness; they all reached the
Station around 5:50 AM and mounted surveillance around the location. The
allegations further are that at about 8:30 AM the DRI officers spotted a
person wearing white kurta payjama and riding a red motorcycle, parking
near a mazaar. The said person parked his motorcycle and walked towards
the mazaar. He was joined by some one who get off from an auto rickshaw.
The person of the first description was identified as Mohd. Naushad Mian.
He handed over a green coloured polythene packet, brought by him to the
second individual, i.e., the petitioner in this case i.e. Abdul Kalam and both
of them started walking towards the motorcycle. The detention order alleges
that at this stage both of them were interrogated. It was alleged that the
packet contained Fake Indian Currency Notes in the denomination of
Rs.500/- and Rs.1000/- aggregating to Rs.2,95,000/-. The detention order
alleges that Abdul Kalam i.e. the present petitioner recorded his confession
under Section 108 of the Customs Act on the same day i.e. 05.07.2010 in
terms of which he acknowledged to personal knowledge about the contents
of the packet and also confirmed that this was a part of an organized racket.
He apparently named one Amurul Islam as master mind of the entire
operation. The detention order states that on the basis of the statement of the
writ petitioners, further investigation was conducted pursuant to which
summons/notices were issued to the other alleged offenders including
Amirul Islam. The detention order mentions that summons were issued on
08.07.2010 and also later, on 12.8.2010 and 30.8.2010. Apparently, Amirual
Islam did not comply with notice and appeared before the authorities. His
premises were searched and incriminating documents were allegedly seized.
The detention order also alleges that the documents taken into possession

W.P. (CRL) 167/2012 Page 2
 revealed at least one previous incident involving the smuggling of fake
Indian currency notices to the extent of Rs. 4 lakhs. 3. The petition urges that in the entirety of facts having regard to the
settled authorities, the detention order made in this case cannot be sustained.
It is emphasized that the record discloses that all the facts which were
necessary for the detaining authority to base its decision upon, i.e. whether
to make an order or not, were in its possession by August, 2010 and this
included a confessional statement recorded on 05.07.2010. Yet the detaining
authority inordinarily delayed in taking any decision and in fact made the
impugned order on 09.09.2011. Learned counsel relied upon the decision
reported as Rajinder Arora v. Union of India & Ors AIR 2006 SC 1719 and
Ahamed Mohaideen Jabbar v. State of Tamilnadu 1999 (4) SCC 417. 4. Learned counsel next emphasized that record also reveals that the writ
petitioner and the co-accused are facing trial and the case was handed over
to the CBI. It was highlighted during the course of hearing that the petitioner
was enlarged on bail by an order of the competent Court on 08.11.2011. At
that stage CBI was unable to produce sufficient evidence prima facie for the
offence alleged. The material on record included the confessional statement
which prima facie was admissible under Sec. 108 of the Customs Act.
Despite this fact, the Court apparently was of the opinion that there was not
sufficient material to conclude that prima facie the writ petitioner was guilty.
In such circumstances, argued by the learned counsel, there was no
justification for continuing with the detention order which was in violation
of writ petitioner's right under Article 21 of the Constitution. 5. Counsel for the respondent submitted that the mere circumstance that
the writ petitioner was granted bail either before the detention order or even

W.P. (CRL) 167/2012 Page 3
 later is not insufficient ground for the Court to exercise its discretion under Article 226 of the Constitution and quash an order. It was argued that so far
as question on delay is concerned there was in fact no delay and that the
standard for judging whether the order of detention is made after an
inexcusable delay or ordinary delay is not the same as in the case of
approach of detaining authority which is expected to dispose of the detenu's
representation with utmost expedience. It was emphasized that the
provisions of COFEPOSA impose time limits within which representation
have to be dealt with and the question of delay in passing detention order has
to be seen not from a mathematical perspective but whether the facts of the
case disclose that the offender is likely to indulge in the same behaviour. 6. It was argued that the material gathered during the search at Amirul
Islam premises, confirmed what the writ petitioner had confessed to in the
statement recorded on 05.07.2010. This clearly pointed to his indulgence in
the same behaviour and also established that he was a repeat offender.
Therefore, the question of delay should not unduly agitate the Court.
Learned counsel relied upon a decision in Sheetal Manoj Gore v. State of
Maharashtra and Ors reported as 2006 (7) SCC 560 where it was held: "XXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXX

 This Court in several judgments has emphasised the
 promptness with which authority concerned must deal with the
 representation received from the detenu. The right to represent
 and its fair and prompt consideration by the authority
 concerned is a constitutional right guaranteed to a detenu. The
 authorities dealing with such representations must be aware of
 the fact that the detenue is languishing in custody without a
 trial. Their conduct must, therefore, disclose a consciousness of
 the urgency in the matter. The norms and standards laid down

W.P. (CRL) 167/2012 Page 4
 by this Court in the matter of consideration of the
 representation of a detenu, cannot be strictly applied to the
 case of processing of a proposal for detention of a person under
 the Act. No doubt, if there is inordinate delay in issuing the
 order of detention, it may well be argued that the live link
 between the prejudicial activity of the detenu and the purpose
 for which the order of detention is issued is snapped and being
 stale there was no justification for issuance of an order of
 detention. In the facts and circumstances of this case, we are
 satisfied that the details furnished by the detaining authority
 provide sufficient explanation for the time taken in issuing the
 order of detention. XXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXX" 7. The previous discussion would reveal that the order of detention is
based upon the arrest and subsequent confessional statement of the petitioner
recorded by the authorities on 05.07.2010. The detention order cites that an
amount of fake Indian currency note, seized was to the tune of Rs.2,95,000/-.
It is also a matter of record (as pointed out by the detention order as well as
the documents annexed in support thereof) that the materials which led the
detaining authority to arrive at its subjective satisfaction that the petitioner
had to be preventively detained in terms of Section 8 were primarily the
confessional statement and the documents seized from the premises of
alleged Amirul Islam. The documents annexed with the detention order also
reveal that even though Amirul Islam was summoned three times to record
his statement, the authorities were unsuccessful. However, his premises were
searched on 8.7.2010 itself. This Court also notices that investigation into
the criminal proceedings initiated in the aftermath of the petitioner's arrest
on 5.7.2010 were apparently handed over within reasonable time to the CBI.
The detention order ultimately was made on 9.9.2011. An important aspect

W.P. (CRL) 167/2012 Page 5
 which this Court notices, at the outset, is that the between August, 2010 and
September, 2011 no new material was examined or placed on record of the
authorities which could have perhaps been a good justification for the
detaining authority to claim that there was no delay. 8. It is no doubt true that the Supreme Court in its decision in Haradhan
Saha vs. State of West Bengal reported as (1975) 3 SCC 198, has held that
the mere circumstance that a person is liable to be tried in a criminal Court is
no bar on the Government passing a detention order against him. However at
the same time there are decisions like Rekha vs. State of Tamilnadu, 2011 (5)
SCC 244 where it is held that when the detaining authority takes recourse to
preventive detention even when criminal proceedings are on, the Courts
have to take a careful position. In Rekha's case (supra), it was stated that: "XXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXX

 No doubt, it has been held in the Constitution Bench in Haradhan Saha case that even if a person is liable to be tried in
 a criminal court for commission of a criminal offence, or is
 actually being so tried, that does not debar the authorities from
 passing a detention order under a preventive detention law.
 This observation, to be understood correctly, must, however, be
 construed in the background of the constitutional scheme in Article 21 and 22 of the Constitution (which we have already
 explained). Article 22(3)(b) is only an exception to Article 21 and it is not itself a fundamental right. It is Article 21 which is
 central to the whole chapter on fundamental rights in our
 Constitution. The right to liberty means that before sending a
 person to prison a trial must ordinarily be held giving him an
 opportunity of placing his defence through his lawyer. It
 follows that if a person is liable to be tried, or is actually being
 tired, for a criminal offence, but the ordinary criminal law (the
 Penal Code or other penal statutes) will not be able to deal
 with the situation, then, and only then, can the preventive

W.P. (CRL) 167/2012 Page 6
 detention law be taken recourse to. XXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXX" 9. In this case, as noticed earlier, petitioner and his co-accused are facing
trial; the matter is pending with the CBI which had till late 2011 not been
able to sufficient material to implicate the accused apart from the
confessional statement under Sec. 108 . This aspect is important because the
detention order is based entirely on the said confessional statement and the
recoveries made allegedly from the premises of Amirul Islam. 10. Having regard to this aspect and the further circumstance (which was
not denied during the hearing) that the petitioner is enlarged on bail on the
basis of the material made available to the Trial Court and also that the
charge has been framed, this Court is of the opinion that the mere allegation
of his having been associated in the past with some activities is an
insufficient circumstance to justify the detention order. We also notice that
in fact there is no case registered against the writ petitioner in respect of any
similar or any other offence. 11. On the question of delay, the Supreme Court had in its decision in T.
D. Abdul Rahman vs. State of Kerala and Ors AIR 1990 SC 225, stated as
follows: "XXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXX

 The conspectus of the above decisions can be summarized thus: In the present case all the material necessary to issue detention order were
available with the concerned authority as on July-August, 2010 yet the
detention order was in fact made on 9.9.2011. 13. Although the respondents have relied upon the decision for there are
some observations in Sheetal Manoj Gore (supra) suggestive of a different
approach which the Courts ought to adopt while considering the issue of
delay yet we notice that the observations were fact-dependant. In this case,
having noticed all the materials which could have been used by the detaining
authority to make an order under Section 3 / 8 were with it in July-August,

W.P. (CRL) 167/2012 Page 8
 2010 despite which no order was made, we are of the opinion that the order
is untenable on the ground of inordinate delay. 14. In view of the above conclusion, we are of the opinion that the
impugned order of detention dated 9.9.2011 under Sections 3 and 8 ,
COFEPOSA cannot be sustained and is hereby quashed. The writ petitioner
shall be released forthwith unless required in any other case. The writ
petition is allowed in above terms. S. RAVINDRA BHAT
 (JUDGE)

 S.P.GARG
 (JUDGE)
APRIL 09, 2012
'raj'

W.P. (CRL) 167/2012 Page 9