1. Whether Reporters of local papers may be allowed to see the judgment? 2. To be referred to the Reporters or not? 3. Whether the judgment should be reported in the Digest? ... PRESENT: - Mr. S.S. Narula, Advocate, for the appellant. Mr. Gurinderjit Singh, Deputy Advocate
 General, Punjab, for the respondent - State. . . . Jaspal Singh, J 1. The instant appeal has been preferred by Subhash

 Chander @ Bash, feeling dis-satisfied against judgment of

 conviction and order of sentence dated August 29, 2003 passed

 in case FIR No.130 dated May 12, 2000, under Sections 489-B , 489-C , 489-D , 467 , 471 , 420 IPC, registered at Police Station,

 Sadar, Gurdaspur, whereby he has been convicted under Section

 489-C IPC and sentenced to undergo RI for a period of 3 years AVIN KUMAR 2015.03.25 13:56 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document High Court of Punjab & Haryana at Chandigarh Crl. Appeal No.S-1749-SB of 2003 [2] and to pay fine to the tune of ` 500/-, and in default of payment

 of fine, to further undergo RI for a period of one month. 2. Briefly stated, the facts of the case are that on

 May 12, 2000, SI/SHO Varinder Singh alongwith ASI Ravinder

 Singh, HC Kuldip Singh, HC Ajwinder Singh and some other

 police officials was present at T-point of village Ghuralla in

 connection with checking of bad elements and vehicles etc. He

 received a secret information to the effect that a person is

 coming from the side of village Tibri on a scooter bearing

 registration No.PB-08Z-5653 towards Gurdaspur and in case, he

 is subjected to personal search, fake currency notes could be

 recovered from him. After sometime, a person came while

 driving the above referred scooter who was signaled to stop.

 When accosted, he revealed his name as Subhash Chander @

 Bash. His personal search led to recovery of 33 notes of fake

 currency of the denomination of ` 50/- each, from the pocket of

 his trouser besides genuine currency notes of ` 120/- which

 were taken into possession by him vide separate recovery

 memos. He was also subjected to custodial interrogation, during

 which, he disclosed that he used to exchange fake currency

 notes of the denomination of ` 50/- with genuine currency notes

 of the denomination of ` 100/- with general public. He also

 disclosed that he alongwith Deepak Kumar @ Naresh Kumar AVIN KUMAR 2015.03.25 13:56 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document High Court of Punjab & Haryana at Chandigarh Crl. Appeal No.S-1749-SB of 2003 [3] son of Charan Dass, resident of Tilak Nagar, Delhi, also

 purchased a computer for preparing counterfeit currency notes.

 During his interrogation, he also suffered disclosed statement

 and in pursuance thereof, he got recovered 166 currency notes

 of the denomination of ` 500/- each, two identity cards, one

 issued by Jalandhar Police and another issued by Gurdaspur

 Police, and two seals; one issued by SSP Jalandhar and another

 by SSP Gurdaspur. All these articles were taken into possession

 vide recovery memos. Fake currency notes recovered from the

 possession of accused Subhash Chander were also sent to the

 office of Reserve Bank of India, Sector 17, Chandigarh and

 those currency notes were found to be fake and a report in this

 regard was obtained by investigating officer. 3. After completion of police investigation, report

 under Section 173(2) Cr.P.C. was presented in the court of

 jurisdictional magistrate. Since offences complained of were

 exclusively triable by the court of Sessions, case was committed

 under Section 209 Cr.P.C. after having complied with the

 provisions contained under Section 207 Cr.P.C. Subhash

 Chander @ Bash and his co-accused Deepak Kumar @ Naresh

 Kumar were chargesheeted to face trial under Sections 489-B , 489-C , 489-D , 467 , 471 and 420 IPC. Both the accused did not

 plead guilty to the charge and claimed trial. Accordingly, AVIN KUMAR 2015.03.25 13:56 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document High Court of Punjab & Haryana at Chandigarh Crl. Appeal No.S-1749-SB of 2003 [4] prosecution was asked to substantiate the charge framed against

 them. 4. In order to prove the charge, prosecution

 examined PW-1 SI Ravinder Singh; PW-2 HC Gurmit Singh;

 PW-3 MHC Jasbir Singh; PW-4 SHO/SI Varinder Singh; PW-5

 HC Balbir Singh; PW-6 S.K. Jolly, Assistant Maanger, RBI,

 Chandigarh; PW-7 C Avtar Singh; PW-8 Sampooran Singh

 Ghuman, Junior Assistant c/o office of DTO Jalandhar; PW-9 C

 Shamsher Singh. Thereafter, prosecution closed its evidence. 5. When incriminating circumstances appearing in

 prosecution evidence were put to both the accused for eliciting

 their explanation as required under Section 313 Cr.P.C., they

 pleaded their false implication in the instant case, denied all the

 allegations and took up the plea that no such currency notes

 were ever recovered from them and a false case has been foisted

 upon them. Appellant - Subhash Chander took up a specific

 plea that reads as under:- 6. Accused Subhash Chander did like to adduce

 evidence in defence and he examined DW-1 HC Kuldip Singh;

 DW-2 Parkash Singh, STD owner, Kartarpur; and DW-3 HC

 Jaswinder Singh. 7. After analyzing evidence adduced by the

 prosecution as well as accused, and hearing learned counsel for

 the parties, Subhash Chander was held guilty and convicted

 under Section 489-C IPC, whereas, for the alleged commission

 of remaining offences mentioned in the chargesheet, he was

 acquitted. Co-accused of the present appellant, namely, Deepak

 Kumar @ Naresh Kumar was acquitted of all charges. 8. Feeling dis-satisfied, Subhash Chander preferred

 the instant appeal which was admitted for hearing subject to all

 just exceptions. Notice of the appeal was issued. Lower court

 record was requisitioned and received. 9. While assailing the conviction and sentence

 awarded by learned trial court, learned counsel for appellant AVIN KUMAR 2015.03.25 13:56 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document High Court of Punjab & Haryana at Chandigarh Crl. Appeal No.S-1749-SB of 2003 [6] argued that the same are absolutely against the evidence

 available on file and settled canons of law. Infact, prosecution

 has failed to bring home the guilt of appellant - accused even

 under Section 489-C IPC. If, for the sake of arguments, it is

 admitted that the appellant was found in possession of forged,

 fake and counterfeit currency notes, yet in the absence of any

 evidence to show that he knew or had reason to believe that

 notes in his possession were forged and counterfeit and he

 intended to use the same as genuine, he could not be convicted

 for the offence under Section 489-C IPC. To buttress his

 contention, learned counsel has drawn attention of this Court to

 the statement of appellant recorded by learned trial court under Section 313 Cr.P.C. to point out that no evidence has been

 brought on record regarding this aspect of the case and no

 question in this regard has been put to appellant. Therefore, on

 this score alone, conviction is not sustainable and is liable to set

 aside. 10. The next submission made by learned counsel is

 that appellant has been falsely implicated in the instant cae. It is

 an admitted fact that an Identity Card was issued to him by SSP

 Gurdaspur as a police informer but for getting issued a

 permanent number, SHO who is investigating officer in the

 instant case, put-forth a demand of ` 50,000/- as illegal AVIN KUMAR 2015.03.25 13:56 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document High Court of Punjab & Haryana at Chandigarh Crl. Appeal No.S-1749-SB of 2003 [7] gratification, and for that purpose, he also mortgaged his

 property. Subsequently, instant case was foisted upon him

 Moreover, on the basis of evidence of SHO and evidence of

 other prosecution witnesses, co-accused of the appellant has

 already been granted the benefit of doubt, meaning thereby, that

 testimony of the prosecution witnesses including investigating

 officer is neither reliable nor trustworthy. Even no independent

 witness was also associated either at the time the appellant -

 accused was intercepted by police on May 12, 2000 or at

 subsequent stage when he is alleged to have been subjected to

 custodial interrogation, and got recovered fake currency notes in

 pursuance of his disclosure statement. 11. While concluding his arguments, it has been

 argued by learned counsel for the appellant that all these factors

 narrated above coupled with each other shatter the basic version

 of prosecution. As such, appellant is entitled to the benefit of

 doubt. 12. Per contra, learned State counsel has submitted

 that there is no infirmity or illegality in the impugned judgment

 and order of sentence and the same are in consonance with

 evidence available on file and settled canons of law. The

 recovery of forged, fake or counterfeit currency notes from the

 possession of accused stands fully proved and presumption can AVIN KUMAR 2015.03.25 13:56 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document High Court of Punjab & Haryana at Chandigarh Crl. Appeal No.S-1749-SB of 2003 [8] easily be drawn that accused knew that currency notes were

 counterfeit one, and he intended to use the same as genuine. The

 defence plea taken by the appellant before the trial court is

 neither convincing nor proved, especially in the absence of any

 complaint lodged by the appellant that too prior to his

 involvement in the instant case. As far as non-joining of

 independent witness is concerned, effort was made by

 investigating officer to associate independent person from

 public but none was found available. Moreover, official

 witnesses are as good as other and their testimony cannot be

 discarded or disbelieved just on the basis of colour of their

 status. Instant appeal being devoid of merit is liable to be

 dismissed. 13. This Court has given an anxious thought to the

 aforesaid submissions made by learned counsel for parties and

 perused the record meticulously. 14. Appellant - Subhash Chander has been convicted

 and sentenced under Section 489-C IPC which reads as under:- 15. A perusal of the provision extracted above, AVIN KUMAR 2015.03.25 13:56 depicts that mens rea of offence under Section 489-C IPC is I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document High Court of Punjab & Haryana at Chandigarh Crl. Appeal No.S-1749-SB of 2003 [9] "knowing or having reason to believe the currency notes or

 bank notes to be forged or counterfeit", and further, that the fake

 or counterfeit currency notes have been intended to be used as

 genuine or that, it may be used as genuine. So, mere possession

 of such notes is not sufficient to constitute an offence falling

 within the provisions of Section 489-C IPC. 16. A close scrutiny of statement recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C. of appellant discloses that no explanation

 has been sought with regard to the fact that he knew or had

 reason to believe that notes alleged to have been recovered from

 him were fake, forged or counterfeit as well as to the fact that in

 spite of knowledge to this effect, he intended to use the same as

 genuine. To fortify this observation, we can have the reference

 of the pronouncement of Hon'ble Apex Court in case M.

 Mammutti vs. State of Karnataka , AIR 1979 Supreme Court

 1705 as well as judgment of this Court in Gurnam Singh vs.

 State of Union Territory, Chandigarh , 1992(1) RCR (Crl.) 661

 (P&H). 17. In M. Mammutti 's case (supra), Hon'ble Apex

 Court made the following observations:- 18. In Gurnam Singh 's case (supra), after elaborately

 discussing Section 489-C IPC, this Court made the following

 observations:- 19. Similarly, in case Kashmir Singh vs. State of

 Punjab , 2006(2) RCR (Criminal) 477, Full Bench of this Court

 observed as under:- 20. To the similar effect is the observation made by

 Hon'ble Apex Court in case State of Punjab vs. Hari Singh &

 others , 2009(2) RCR (Criminal) 143. 21. As has been discussed above, a glance on the

 statement of appellant recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C.

 would reveal that neither any specific question with regard to

 aforesaid aspects has been framed nor put to the appellant. The

 explanation to be sought under Section 313 Cr.P.C. is not a

 mere formality, rather, absence of non-explanation to be sought

 from the accused - appellant on material aspects appearing in

 the prosecution evidence cast a serious doubt. It can be safely AVIN KUMAR 2015.03.25 13:56 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document High Court of Punjab & Haryana at Chandigarh Crl. Appeal No.S-1749-SB of 2003 [12] concluded that it has resulted into a great prejudice to the

 appellant - accused. 22. Now coming to another aspect of the case. Admittedly, neither the alleged recovered fake or counterfeit

 currency notes were neither converted into parcels nor sealed by

 investigating officer with his seal. In such a situation, possibility

 of tampering with the case property cannot be ruled out. Mere

 production of such loose notes before an officer of RBI or in the

 court during the course of evidence is not sufficient to draw

 presumption against the holder thereof that he intended to use

 the same as genuine or that the said currency notes were

 recovered from the possession of the appellant. 23. In Gurnam Singh 's case (supra), even it was

 observed that when currency notes are of such a nature that

 mere look would not convince anybody that they were

 counterfeit, no presumption could be drawn that the accused

 knew that currency notes were counterfeit one. 24. Not only this, even recovery of currency notes

 was effected, allegedly in pursuance of disclosure statement of

 appellant - accused, from his residential house, but to the utter

 surprise, neither any witness was associated at the time of

 alleged custodial interrogation of appellant - accused nor

 suffering of any disclosure statement nor at the time of recovery AVIN KUMAR 2015.03.25 13:56 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document High Court of Punjab & Haryana at Chandigarh Crl. Appeal No.S-1749-SB of 2003 [13] of fake currency notes from Delhi. SHO Varinder Singh, PW-4,

 has stated that he does not remember if any effort was made to

 associate any person from the public or mohalla. Though

 recovery was stated to be effected from the house of appellant -

 accused yet there is complete go-bye to the mandatory provision

 contained in Section 100(4) Cr.P.C. Even no entry was got

 incorporated in DDR maintained in the Police Station of the

 area in which recovery was effected. The house, from which,

 alleged fake or counterfeit currency notes were recovered, is

 comprised of only one room which was without any lock and

 key, rather, inhabited by the family of appellant which included

 his old mother, wife and four children. Even in the adjoining

 room, his another close relative has been residing. Place of

 recovery was neither a hidden place nor a place which was

 under lock and key possessed by appellant. 25. Thus, taking the case of prosecution from any of

 the angles, it cannot be said that prosecution has been successful

 to make out ingredients which constitute offence under Section

 489-C IPC. Rather, case of the prosecution becomes highly

 doubtful and suspicious in view of discussion made above. As a

 result of the aforementioned discussion, this Court is of the

 considered view that the impugned judgment of conviction and

 order of sentence suffer from material infirmity and illegality AVIN KUMAR 2015.03.25 13:56 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document High Court of Punjab & Haryana at Chandigarh Crl. Appeal No.S-1749-SB of 2003 [14] besides the fact that it is surrounded by material circumstances

 on account of which, false implication of appellant - accused

 cannot be ruled out. Accordingly, conviction and sentence

 imposed upon appellant vide impugned judgment and order is

 set aside by way of acceptance of the instant appeal.

 Resultantly, appellant - accused stands acquitted of the charge.