Present: Mr. Ashwani Talwar, Advocate and
 Mr. Puneet Bali, Advocate
 for the petitioner. Mr. Arvind Mittal, Addl. A.G., Punjab with
 Mr. Navdeep Sukhna, DAG, Punjab
 for respondent Nos.1 to 3 and 7 to 9. Mr. Ajay Kaushik, Advocate
 for respondent No.6. Mr. Vineet Malhotra, Advocate and
 Mr. Jasjeet Singh Bedi, Advocate
 for respondent Nos.4, 10 and 11. Mr. D.D. Sharma, Advocate and
 Mr. Ajay Sagar, Advocate
 for respondent No.5. CORAM:HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE K. KANNAN 1. Whether Reporters of local papers may be allowed to see the
 judgment ? Yes/No 2. To be referred to the Reporters or not ? Yes/No 3. Whether the judgment should be reported in the Digest? Yes/No -.- K. KANNAN J. 1. The petitioner, who is a Non-Resident Indian staying away in

the distant shores of Singapore, seeks for direction that a case C.W.P. No.21058 of 2010 -2- registered against him in FIR No.30 dated 05.02.2010 for alleged

offences under Sections 65 , 66A , 66C , 66D , 66E of Information

Technology Act and Sections 419 , 420 , 408 , 467 , 468 , 469 , 471 and 120-B IPC of the Indian Penal Code at Police Station, Rajpura City, District

Patiala (Annexure P-7), is handed over to the Central Bureau of

Investigation at Delhi through its Director, who is arrayed as 6th

respondent. 2. The facts leading to the complaint against him have come

about under the circumstances, which according to the petitioner, was

in retaliation to the petitioner's several complaints lodged against

respondents No.4, 10 and 11, who were Directors of a company at Delhi

M/s Jay Polychem Limited. The petitioner was himself an employee in

the said company having occupied an executive post after resigning from

Reliance Industries where he was alleged to have worked for 13 ½ years.

He had been sent to Houston, Texas (U.S.A.) on official assignment and

later shifted to Singapore. While at Singapore, the petitioner claimed

that he had come to know of several alleged illegal activities being

committed by the Managing Director of M/s Jay Polychem Ltd. including

"money-laundering, large scale duping of Banks and counterparties and

rating institutions and circular trading of diamonds" (sic). The

petitioner's allegation was that when he had resigned from service on

18.09.2009 and made a claim on 01.10.2009 for payment of the

outstanding dues to him for the services rendered by him, the

respondent refused to acknowledge the petitioner's claim favourably.

The petitioner, therefore, issued a notice again on 09.11.2009 making a

grave imputation of illegal activities of the 4th respondent, which the C.W.P. No.21058 of 2010 -3- petitioner claimed ruffled the feathers of respondent No.4 and to settle

scores with him, various frivolous litigations/complaints were filed

against the petitioner and his family members. 3. The differences that started with petitioner's unsettled claim

for wages snowballed, with both parties trading charges one against the

other. The petitioner escalated his charges against the respondent

Nos.4, 10 and 11 by giving complaints to the Department of Revenue

Intelligence, Government of India, Directorate of Enforcement, Central

Bureau of Investigation and Commercial Affairs Department, Singapore

and these complaints appear to have made them furious. They

retaliated by filing a complaint in FIR No.30 dated 05.02.2010. This

complaint was purported to be on the basis of a statement by one Sh.

Baldev Singh before the Deputy Inspector General of Police, who is

arrayed as 7th respondent. The petitioner would charge that the

complicity of the 7th respondent with the respondents No.4, 10 and 11

could be seen from the fact that the normal procedure of lodging a

complaint was before the Station House Officer in charge of the Police

Station within whose jurisdiction the offence was committed but he had

directly resorted to a complaint to Deputy Inspector General of Police,

who forwarded it to the District Attorney, Prosecution, Patiala. He had

given an opinion that offences under Information Technology Act had

been made out. Since the offences made in the opinion of the District

Attorney, were all bailable, just only to harass the petitioner, additional

Sections of 419 and 420 IPC were added to make the offences non-

bailable. The petitioner complains that the 7th respondent himself has C.W.P. No.21058 of 2010 -4- very close links with respondent Nos.10 and 11, which fact, according to

the petitioner, should be discerned from the fact that at every level,

the 7th respondent took keen interest in the whole investigation

although it was not his duty. The 9th respondent, who was the

Investigating Officer on various occasions was alleged to have

threatened the family members of the petitioner and as the sham of

investigation proceeded, several other Sections were also included

namely 408, 467, 468, 469, 471 and 120-B IPC . Not merely the petitioner

but the whole close members of the petitioner's family namely his

mother, sister and brother-in-law, were sought to be brought within the

net of investigation. 4. The facts as detailed in the complaint are to the effect that

the petitioner along with one Amardeep Singh, Preeti, Charanjit Singh,

Rahul, his sister and brother-in-law have hosted a website by the name

www.jaypolychem.org and various emails were sent to customers,

supplier, trade-counter parties, Banks and other institutions to malign

the image of respondent No.4 and its Directors. The FIR was registered

on 05.02.2010 for the alleged creation of website for dissemination of

defamatory materials against the respondent Nos.4, 10 and 11.

Amardeep, who was employee of the 4th respondent was immediately

taken into custody by the police and when he was not prepared to give

any statement against the petitioner, according to the petitioner, he

was tortured to give statement against him. Yet another person Rahul

Singh had also been taken into custody from Bombay by the Punjab

Police and when he also refused to give favourable statement, he was C.W.P. No.21058 of 2010 -5- alleged to have been tortured by the police. The 4th respondent is also

reported to have filed a Civil Suit in CS No.2223 of 2009 before the Delhi

High Court claiming damages and seeking for a pre-publication restraint

against him from causing any defamatory material to be distributed in

any form. 5. The petitioner refers to yet another incident of a notice said

to have been received from the Officer Incharge, Economic Officence

Wing, District Jalandhar under Section 160 Cr.P.C. claiming that a

complaint had been made with them by Amardeep Singh that the

petitioner had created a fake and false website. The petitioner would

point out that even as per the records relied on by the Investigating

Agencies, the website was created only in November, 2009 and it was

inconceivable as to how there could have been a complaint of creation

of fake website even in April, 2009. A large posse of policemen appears

to have descended from Jalandhar at Kerala at the residence of the

petitioner's mother on the pretext of delivering a notice on 04.12.2009

and had given out threats her that if petitioner did not retract from the

complaints, she would be seriously harmed. The petitioner's sister is a

Pediatrician in a hospital at Ernakulam and brother-in-law is an

Anaesthetist and they have absolutely no connection with the petitioner

in any of his professional activity except that they have merely a

working knowledge of computers that is relevant to their respective

fields. However, they were also harassed as though they had in their

custody some incriminating documents against the petitioner. The

petitioner would point out to how the respondents 4, 10 and 11 are

wreaking vengeance against him in various ways:- 6. All these contentions of the petitioner were to bring home the

point that the respondent Nos.4, 10 and 11 are powerful and connected

to the political big wigs of the State and through their influence, cases

are sought to be brought within the State of Punjab and through the

obliging police officials, the petitioner, the members of his family and

ex-colleagues in the company are being terrorized. There have been also

criminal cases registered against some of the officials of the company,

who were perceived to be intimately connected to the petitioner, some

at Bombay and the immediate members of the family at Kerala. 7. The active contest is entered by the respondents No.4, 10 and

11, who contend that the petitioner, who is not prepared to join the

investigation and stays away in a foreign country shall not be allowed

the luxury of a transfer of investigation from the police machinery at

Punjab to CBI. It is also contended by them that some of the employees

of the 4th respondent's company have travelled to Kerala that show that C.W.P. No.21058 of 2010 -8- tickets had been purchased on the credit cards of the petitioner, for

which proof is also adduced. Pointing out to the fact that there is

nothing unusual about counsel from the AG's office to go to Kerala in a

case where there were doubts of jurisdiction expressed by the High

Court, the counsel for the 4th respondent would also contend the

petitioner had actually filed a petition for anticipatory bail before the

Kerala High Court which was dismissed. There was already an interim

order in a civil suit for injuction passed by the High Court at Delhi, being

convinced of the prima facie case brought by the 4th respondent that

defamatory materials was being disseminated by the petitioner and

therefore, the petitioner could not be heard to say that he was not in

any way connected with the alleged defamatory material put through

the website floated by him to malign the 4th respondent company. 8. The issue whether the investigation must be transferred from

the State police to CBI should be seen in the context of offences

attributed and the nature of investigation that the case would entail. It

can be noticed that we are not examining a situation of the petitioner

lodging a complaint against respondents No.4, 10 and 11 and a grievance

that the complaint by him against the top bosses are being thwarted by

political influence of the 4th respondent. On the other hand, the

contention is that since he had alerted the South Block at Delhi of

serious financial irregularities and money-laundering of the 4th

respondent company, the petitioner and his family members were being

hounded by the respondent-police after registering a FIR at Rajpura. If

the complaint lacks materials and it is being prosecuted out of vendetta C.W.P. No.21058 of 2010 -9- that the company top bosses have against an ex-employee, who had

worked under them, normally, the petitioner ought to have his reliefs

within the four corners of the Criminal Procedure Code itself, such as

seeking for quashing of the complaint or if the investigation had resulted

in a report to the Magistrate and a charge-sheet had been framed, to

apply for a discharge. Again for any harassment alleged to have been

met by the petitioner's family members, there could be appropriate

remedy for wrongful complaints against the persons responsible for

damages. The result would be that an intervention through a writ

petition would become necessary. 9. However, if the various episodes taking place at Delhi,

Rajpura, Mohali, Bombay and Kerala were to be seen as episodes in a

series that springs from a seemingly innocuous complaint lodged in a FIR

for bailable offences, then it is clear that there is an attempt to

terrorize a person, who has upped his ante against his employer, for

whatever reasons. It all starts with an employee walking out of service

and making a demand for arrears of salary and some accrued benefits,

which he claims as legitimately due to him. Not till the petitioner

resigns from the job, do we find any complaint registered against him. A

sure posturing to over-kill could be noticed and attempts to ransack

homes in distant Kerala and involving the brother in law to attempt to

apprehend him as though he is a criminal on the run had done little to

improve the image of the Punjab police. 10. With all this background, would the case require to be

transferred to the CBI? The Hon'ble Supreme Court has cautioned

through several decisions that a transfer of investigation to CBI will not C.W.P. No.21058 of 2010 -10- be done as a matter of course unless the matter is very serious, having

national or international ramifications, or affects large scale public

interest, and to raise the confidence in the investigation. In State of

West Bengal and others Vs. The Committee for Protection of

Demoractic Rights West Bengals and others 2010(3) SCC 571, a

Constitution Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court was dealing with the

power of a Court to order CBI investigation without a concurrence of the

State and by holding such a power existed to investigate a cognizable

offence the Hon'ble Supreme Court cautioned that while passing an

order under Article 32 or 226 of the Constitution "the Courts must bear

in mind certain self-imposed limitations on the exercise of these

Constitutional powers. The very plentitude of the power under the said

Articles requires great caution in its exercise. In so far as the question of

issuing a direction to the CBI to conduct investigation in a case is

concerned, although no inflexible guidelines can be laid down to decide

whether or not such power should be exercised but time and again it has

been reiterated that such an order is not to be passed as a matter of

routine or merely because as party has leveled some allegations against

the local police. This extra-ordinary power must be exercised sparingly,

cautiously and in exceptional situations where it becomes necessary to

provide credibility and instill confidence in investigations or where the

incident may have national and international ramifications or where

such an order may be necessary for doing complete justice and enforcing

the fundamental rights. Otherwise the CBI would be flooded with a large

number of cases and with limited resources, may find it difficult to

properly investigate even serious cases and in the process lose its C.W.P. No.21058 of 2010 -11- credibility and purpose with unsatisfactory investigations." 11. I am convinced that it is not a situation where CBI must be

called to look into the allegations. I have not gone as far as to say that

the matters referred to in the complaint are earth shaking details that

would require an investigation of the premier agency in India. On the

other hand, it just points out that even a seemingly innocuous complaint

of an employee of a company against co-employee or ex-employee could

snowball to higher proportions where the other members of the family

could also be harassed. Strange are the ways of the police. A complaint

of bailable offences escalates to investigation at Delhi, later to Bombay

and still later to Kerala. Serious complaints of money laundering and

shady dealings in diamonds with high connections gather dust in dark

corners of investigation agencies. Maybe, there is no truth in the

complaints but one would expect that a modicum of effort to be

undertaken to investigate and if there exists no truth, punish the

complainant tellingly in accordance with law. Learned counsel for the

petitioner states that he has genuine apprehension that if he comes to

join the investigation, immediately he will be liquidated but he is

prepared to come if there is an assurance of his safety to any other

State. A petitioner cannot give such pre-condition to join an

investigation but if protection is necessary, they can best be assured by

the fact that the case is still under the scanner of the High Court and

anything going amiss, the petitioner will still be entitled to approach

this Court and point out to the dangers, which he faces at the hands of

the police. Having regard to the manner in which the investigation has

gone and how it is brought to the State of Punjab for an act of an C.W.P. No.21058 of 2010 -12- employee operating from Singapore against a company at Delhi, I am of

the view that the investigation must be transferred to the Crime Branch

of the Punjab Police, Chandigarh. It shall also see if the jurisdiction is

properly invoked in Punjab and if necessary, they may themselves

transfer the investigation to the seat of alleged commission of offences.

These observations are not meant to be taken as any form of appraisal

of the merits of the complaint brought through the FIR. 12. The writ petition is disposed of with the above direction by

declining prayer for transfer of investigation to CBI as sought for by the

petitioner but transferring to the Crime Branch of Punjab Police at

Chandigarh. (K. KANNAN)
 JUDGE
August 03, 2011
Pankaj*