1. This is a petition under Section 11(5) of the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act, 1996 ("the 1996 Act"), for appointment of an
 arbitrator to arbitrate on the dispute between the parties. 2. The substance of the dispute is set out in para 7 sub-paras (a) to (q) of para 2 of the petition, which, for the sake of brevity are not
 being reproduced here. The notice invoking arbitration was issued by
 the petitioner to the respondent on 1st August, 2020. The parties
 having failed to arrive at any agreement regarding the arbitrator to
 arbitrate on the disputes, the petitioner has approached this Court
 under Section 11(5) of the 1996 Act. 3. The only objection raised by Mr. Rakesh Saini, learned Counsel
 for the respondent, regarding the reference of the disputes to
 arbitration is that the agreement between the parties is inadequately Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed ARB.P.230/2021 Page 1 of 9 By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI Signing Date:15.08.2021 19:21:13 stamped. He has relied on the judgment of the Supreme Court in N.N.
 Global Mercantile Pvt. Ltd. v. M/s Indo Unique Flame Ltd.1 to
 contend that, till this defect is rectified, the Court cannot refer the
 dispute to arbitration. Mr. Singhal, learned Counsel for the petitioner,
 per contra submits that the arbitration agreement is not insufficiently
 stamped and that, even if it were, this aspect could be decided by the
 learned Arbitrator. 4. In fact, the decision in N.N. Global Mercantile1 defeats the
 submission of Mr. Saini. Paras 6.1 to 6.10 of the decision may be
 reproduced thus: enforceable or non-existent, even if the substantive contract is
 not admissible in evidence, or cannot be acted upon on
 account of non-payment of Stamp Duty. 6.5 A three-Judge Bench of this Court in Hindustan Steel
 Limited v. M/s. Dilip Construction Company 2 held that : (emphasis supplied) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed ARB.P.230/2021 Page 4 of 9 By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI Signing Date:15.08.2021 19:21:13 6.6 In our view, there is no legal impediment to the
 enforceability of the arbitration agreement, pending payment
 of Stamp Duty on the substantive contract. The adjudication
 of the rights and obligations under the Work Order or the
 substantive commercial contract would however not proceed
 before complying with the mandatory provisions of the Stamp
 Act . 6.7 The Stamp Act is a fiscal enactment for payment of
 stamp duty to the State on certain classes of instruments
 specified in the Stamp Act . Section 40 of the Indian Stamp
 Act, 1899 provides the procedure for instruments which have
 been impounded, and sub-section (1) of Section 42 requires
 the instrument to be endorsed after it is duly stamped by the
 concerned Collector. Section 42(2) provides that after the
 document is duly stamped, it shall be admissible in evidence,
 and may be acted upon. 6.8 In our view, the decision in SMS Tea Estates3 does not
 lay down the correct position in law on two issues i.e. (i) that
 an arbitration agreement in an unstamped commercial contract
 cannot be acted upon, or is rendered un-enforceable in law;
 and (ii) that an arbitration agreement would be invalid where
 the contract or instrument is voidable at the option of a party,
 such as u/S. 19 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. We hold that
 since the arbitration agreement is an independent agreement
 between the parties, and is not chargeable to payment of
 stamp duty, the non-payment of stamp duty on the
 commercial contract, would not invalidate the arbitration
 clause, or render it un-enforceable, since it has an independent
 existence of its own. The view taken by the Court on the issue
 of separability of the arbitration clause on the registration of
 the substantive contract, ought to have been followed even
 with respect to the Stamp Act . The non-payment of stamp
 duty on the substantive contract would not invalidate even the
 main contract. It is a deficiency which is curable on the
 payment of the requisite Stamp Duty. 6.9 The second issue in SMS Tea Estates 3 that a voidable
 contract would not be arbitrable as it affects the validity of the
 arbitration agreement, is in our view not the correct position
 in law. The allegations made by a party that the substantive 3 S.M.S. Tea Estates v Chandmari Tea Co. (P) Ltd , (2011) 14 SCC 66 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed ARB.P.230/2021 Page 5 of 9 By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI Signing Date:15.08.2021 19:21:13 contract has been obtained by coercion, fraud, or
 misrepresentation has to be proved by leading evidence on the
 issue. These issues can certainly be adjudicated through
 arbitration. We overrule the judgment in SMS Tea Estates with
 respect to the aforesaid two issues as not laying down the
 correct position in law. 6.10 The Garware judgment 4 has followed the judgment in
 SMS Tea Estates3. The Counsel for the Appellant has placed
 reliance on paragraph 22 of the judgment to contend that the
 arbitration clause would be nonexistent in law, and
 unenforceable, till Stamp Duty is adjudicated and paid on the
 substantive contract. We hold that this finding is erroneous, and does not lay
 down the correct position in law. We have already held that
 an arbitration agreement is distinct and independent from the
 underlying substantive commercial contract. Once the
 arbitration agreement is held to have an independent
 existence, it can be acted upon, irrespective of the alleged
 invalidity of the commercial contract." 5. On this position being brought to his notice, Mr. Saini sought to
 rely on the earlier decision of a Bench of three Hon'ble Judges of the
 Supreme Court in Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn5 . In this
 respect, paras 6.11 and 6.12 of the decision in N.N. Global
 Mercantile1 observe thus: "6.11 We notice that the judgment in Garware Wall Ropes
 Limited4 has been cited with approval by a co-ordinate bench
 of this Court in Vidya Drolia & Ors. v. Durga Trading
 Corporation5 . Paragraph 92 of the judgment reads thus : On jurisprudentially and textualism it is possible to
 differentiate between existence of an arbitration
 agreement and validity of an arbitration agreement.
 Such interpretation can draw support from the plain
 meaning of the word "existence'. However, it is
 equally possible, jurisprudentially and on
 contextualism, to hold that an agreement has no
 existence if it is not enforceable and not binding.
 Existence of an arbitration agreement presupposes a
 valid agreement which would be enforced by the court
 by relegating the parties to arbitration. Legalistic and
 plain meaning interpretation would be contrary to the
 contextual background including the definition clause
 and would result in unpalatable consequences. A
 reasonable and just interpretation of 'existence'
 requires understanding the context, the purpose and the
 relevant legal norms applicable for a binding and
 enforceable arbitration agreement. An agreement
 evidenced in writing has no meaning unless the parties
 can be compelled to adhere and abide by the terms. A
 party cannot sue and claim rights based on an
 unenforceable document. Thus, there are good reasons
 to hold that an arbitration agreement exists only when
 it is valid and legal. A void and unenforceable
 understanding is no agreement to do anything.
 Existence of an arbitration agreement means an
 arbitration agreement that meets and satisfies the
 statutory requirements of both the Arbitration Act and
 the Contract Act and when it is enforceable in law. We
 would proceed to elaborate and give further reasons : Existence and validity are intertwined, and arbitration
 agreement does not exist if it is illegal or does not
 satisfy mandatory legal requirements. Invalid
 agreement is no agreement." 6.12 We doubt the correctness of the view taken in
 paragraph 92 of the three-judge bench in Vidya Drolia5. We
 consider it appropriate to refer the findings in paras 22 and 29
 of Garware Wall Ropes Limited4, which has been affirmed in
 paragraph 92 of Vidya Drolia5, to a Constitution Bench of
 five judges." The question of whether, once a bench of the Supreme Court has
 doubted the correctness of an earlier bench of co-equal strength, and
 referred the issue to a larger bench, Courts lower in hierarchy should
 continue to follow the earlier decision, appears to be debatable. United India Insurance Co. V. Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd , (2018) 17 SCC 607 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed ARB.P.230/2021 Page 8 of 9 By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI Signing Date:15.08.2021 19:21:13 6. In this view of the matter, Mr. Saini agrees to reference of the
 dispute to arbitration. 7. In view of the above, the parties are referred to the Delhi
 International Arbitration Centre (DIAC), which would appoint a
 suitable arbitrator to arbitrate thereon. The arbitration would take
 place under the aegis of the DIAC and would abide by its rules and
 regulations. The arbitrator would be entitled to fees in accordance
 with the schedule of fees maintained by the DIAC or as otherwise
 agreed between the parties and the learned arbitrator. 8. The arbitrator would furnish the requisite disclosure under Section 12(2) of the 1996 Act within a week of entering on reference. 9. All issues of fact and law, including the aspect of non-stamping
 of the agreement between the parties and, if so, the consequences
 thereof on arbitrability of the dispute, are left open for agitation before
 the learned Arbitrator. This Court does not return any definitive
 opinion thereon. 10. This petition stands disposed of in the aforesaid terms. C. HARI SHANKAR, J
 AUGUST 11, 2021/kr Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed ARB.P.230/2021 Page 9 of 9 By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI Signing Date:15.08.2021 19:21:13