Shri Vaibhav Shrivastava, AIG, Cyber Cell, Bhopal is present before
this Court. This is the second repeat bail application under Section 439 of the
Criminal Procedure Code, 1973. His first application was dismissed as
withdrawn vide order dated 08/09/2020 passed in M.Cr.C. No.30743/2020.
The applicant is in jail since 31/07/2020 in connection with Crime No.47/2020
registered at P.S., Cyber Cell, Indore, District Indore, for offence punishable
under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 406 , 409 and 201 of IPC r/w Section
34 of IPC and Section 66(C) and 66(D) of Information Technology Act,
2000. As per prosecution story, a complaint by one-Shailendra Sharma was

received inter alia alleging that in his name a loan has been advanced by the
Union Bank of India, Branch - Vijay Nagar, Scheme No.54, Indore to the tune
of Rupees Five lakh and subsidy amount of Rupees Two Lakh. This fact, he
came to know after he received a message from the bank for payment of
EMI. He was taken aback as no amount of loan advanced and subsidy
released were credited in his account. On further enquiry, he came to know
that Sonu Pawar and Pintu Kajre who had earlier contacted him and assured
f o r advancement of loan had misused his documents and blank forms
whereupon his signature were obtained by co-accused Abhishek Namedev at
the instance of these two persons and obtained the loan and subsidy in his
name and withdrawn the amount to his prejudice. Accordingly, case was
registered against both of them. 2 MCRC-46878-2020
 O n further investigation, it was found that there was an organized
network run by main accused persons; Sonu Pawar and Pintu Kajre. They
used to make false promises to innocent persons for procurement of loan and
thereafter, in active connivance and collusion with Bank officials misused
personal documents including Adhar Cards etc of such persons for opening

bank accounts in their names. On the strength of forged documents, loan was
sanctioned and amount of loan used to be clandestinely transferred in the
name of false service providers to such loanees and thereafter, amount used
to be withdrawn for misappropriation. As such, loan transactions of almost
Rupees 65 lakhs has taken place adopting such modus operndi. Learned counsel for the applicant contends that the applicant is
innocent. Main accused persons; Sonu Pawar and Pintu Kajre have played
with his ignorance as he was not aware of their nefarious goals and indulgence
in such fraudulent activity. The applicant is a typist in the Kiosk Center and
his role is limited to type and scan the application forms and upload the same
on M.P. Online site on the instruction of owner of the Kiosk Center. He was
paid only Rs.500/- for the same and he handed over the said amount to the
owner of the Kisok Center. He only performed his duties as per direction of
the owner of the Kiosk Center. Neither he filled up the application form nor
played any active role in obtaining the Gumashta License. The applicant is a
poor person. He has no criminal antecedents. He is not required for further
custodial investigation. Due to his jail incarceration since 31/07/2020, his
family is on the verge of starvation. Due to prevailing Covid-19 situation, trial
is not likely to conclude early in the near future. Under such circumstances
the prayer for grant of bail may be considered on such terms and conditions
as this Court deems fit and proper. P e r contra, Ms. Kher, learned Deputy Advocate General on
instructions submits that there is sufficient material to demonstrate active
connivance and collusion of the applicant with main-accused persons; Sonu
Pawar and Pintu Kajre in the matter of preparation of application for obtaining
 3 MCRC-46878-2020
Gumashta License. However, she submits that there is no material on record
to connect the applicant with procurement of loan from the Union Bank of
India. In any case since the entire modus operandi adopted by main accused
persons involved in the process of procurement of loan including Gumashta
license from the Municipal Corporation, Indore for facilitation of sanction of
fraudulent loan, the applicant's proximity with loan advanced cannot be ruled
out. That apart, its a scam of more than Rupees Sixty Five Lakh; public
money has been siphoned off in a organized manner clandestinely by accused
persons including the main accused persons; Sonu Pawar and Pintu Kajre,
bank officials and present applicant. That apart, complacency of employees
of Municipal Corporation, Indore also cannot be ruled out. Investigation is in

progress in that behalf. However, Municipal Corporation, Indore so far has
not extended satisfactory co-operation in the matter of the procedure
regulating submission of applications and grant of Gumashta Incense to
loanee. However, efforts are on to ensure a logical conclusion in that behalf.
She also fairly submits that so far none of the employees of Municipal
Corporation, Indore under such circumstances apprehended. Though, two
bank officials who have played active role in procurement of fraudulent loans
including main accused persons; Sonu Pawar and Pintu Kajre are arrested and
are undergoing jail incarceration. However, she fairly submits that investigation in the instant case is
complete and challan has been filed. At this stage, she also submits that the delay caused in conclusion of
the investigation is due to shortage of investigating officers at Cyber Cell,
Indore. There are only four officers engaged in number of investigations, as
there are almost three thousand complaints pending consideration/
investigation. It is further submitted that if this Court deems fit, it may direct
to constitute a dedicated team of officers in the form of STF or otherwise for
expeditious completion of investigation. Respondents shall make all possible
endeavours in that behalf. 4 MCRC-46878-2020
 Looking to the intensity of crime, gravity of offence, involvement of
persons in opening of loan accounts in third party names, clandestine manner
o f advancement of fraudulent loan, disbursement and withdrawal thereof by
other persons, it is desirable to observe that the State Government may
consider constitution of a dedicated team of officers to conduct a
comprehensive fair investigation to reach logical conclusion and to avoid
vulnerability in public domain as huge public fund has been subjected to
misappropriation through the window of nationalized bank. Upon hearing learned counsel for the parties though this Court agrees
with Ms. Kher, learned Deputy Advocate General that its a case of serious
scam where public money has been siphoned off in fictitious names and
innocent persons have been made scapegoat in this process, indeed its a
crime against society at large where clandestinely public funds have been
misappropriated. Hence, all seriousness has to be attached to the investigation
and collection of relevant material for ensuring logical conclusion during trial. In relation to present applicant, investigation is complete and challan
has been filed. The applicant is alleged to have typed and scanned the
application forms and uploaded the same on M.P. Online site. Neither is he
alleged to have processed the license application nor granted the license. Be that as it may, this Court refrains from commenting thereupon as
investigation is in progress in that behalf. The applicant had already suffered
jail incarceration since 31/07/2020, he has no criminal antecedents and he is
no more required for further custodial investigation. Due to Covid-19
pandemic, the possibility of delay in conclusion of trial cannot be ruled out,
under such circumstances, the applicant is though enlarged on bail but
temporarily as he may be required for recording the statements and for other
purposes by the investigating team in future as investigation is still in progress
in respect to others. It is directed that the applicant be released on bail on furnishing
personal bond in the sum of Rs.5,00,000/- (Rupees Five lakh only) with
 5 MCRC-46878-2020
one solvent surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial Court, on
the condition that he shall remain present before the Court concerned during
trial and also comply with the conditions enumerated under Section 437(3) of
Cr.P.C., with following further conditions: List on 15.06.2021 alongwith M.Cr.C. No.45527/2020.
 Learned Panel Lawyer is directed to send an e-copy of this order to all
the concerned including the concerned Station House Officer of the police
station for information and necessary action. 6 MCRC-46878-2020
 Observation on facts are only for the purpose of granting temporarily
 bail. E-certified copy as per rules.