This assessee's appeal for A.Y. 2012-13, arises from order of
the CIT(A)-II, Surat dated 20-01-2016 in appeal no. CAS/II/202/2014-
15, in proceedings under section 143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961;
in short "the Act". I.T.A No. 491/Ahd/2016 A.Y. 2012-13 Page No 2
M/s. Soft Touch Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT 2. The assessee has raised following substantive grounds of
appeal:- 3. In this case, assessee filed return of income on 29th September,
2012 showing income of Rs. 57,94,830/-. Subsequently, the case
was selected under scrutiny and notice u/s. 143(2) of the act was
issued on 7th August, 2013. The assessee company was engaged in
the business of manufacturing of narrow width fabrics. The brief facts
of the case are mentioned grounds of appeal wise as below. First ground of appeal: Disallowance u/s. 14A of the act 4. During the course of assessment proceedings, the assessing
officer has noticed that assessee has shown investment in equity
share of Rs. 2,95,00,000/- as on 31st March, 2012 under the head
short term investment. He also noticed that the assessee has
debited interest expenditure under the finance costs borrowings for
assessment year 2011-12 of Rs. 71,47,575/- and for assessment
year 2012-13 respectively. The assessing officer observed that
asssessee had made direct borrowing on which interest payment
was made during the previous year. Therefore, the assessee was
 I.T.A No. 491/Ahd/2016 A.Y. 2012-13 Page No 3
M/s. Soft Touch Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT asked to furnish the detail of investment made in these two
companies and also asked to explain why not proportionate interest
expenses under section 14A should not be disallowed in this case.
The assessee explained that the assessee company has not earned
any income by way of dividend on the investment made by it. It was
also explained that assessee company had not earned any income
which was not formed part of the total income of the company and
further it had not earned any exempt income. Therefore, it was
submitted berore the assessing officer that the provision of section
14A was not applicable. Assessee has also placed reliance on the
judgment of hon'ble Gujarat High Court in the case of Corrtech
Energy Pvt. Ltd.in stating that as per the ratio of judgments the law
is well settled that in the year if the assessee has not earned any
exempt income or has not claimed any income to be exempted then
the prevision of section 14A was not applicable on the assessee.
The assessing officer has not accepted the explanation of the
assessee. She has applied section 14A(3) along with rule 8D of the
IT Rules, 1961 and determined the total disallowance u/s. 14A of the
act to the amount of Rs. 22,12,957/- as worked out at para 4.5 to 4.7
of the assessment order and added to the total income of the
assessee. 5. Aggrieved against the impugned disallowance made by the
assessing officer, the assessee preferred appeal before the ld.
CIT(A). The ld. CIT(A) has dismissed the ground of appeal of the
asssessee on this issue by observing as under:- I.T.A No. 491/Ahd/2016 A.Y. 2012-13 Page No 4
M/s. Soft Touch Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT "6.1.1 I have considered the assessment order as well as the submissions of the
 appellant. The Grounds of appeal- Ground No, 1 pertains to making an addition
 of Rs. 22,12,957/- in the total income by way of disallowance of expenses,
 invoking provisions of section 14A of the Act. The AO found that the appellant
 has made investments in equity share of Rs. 2,95,00,000/- on 31.03.2012 under
 the head short term investments. These investments were made in two relative
 concerns during the last three years i.e. as 31.03.2010 and 31.03.2012. The
 appellant had shown interest expenses under finance cost borrowings for AY
 2012-13 of Rs. 79,69,711/-. The AO found that the appellant did not provide
 details regarding any expenses being incurred on the exempt income. The AO
 disallowed an amount of Rs. 22.12.957/- under Rule 14A r.w. Rule 8D of the IT
 Rules. The appellant submitted that the entire investment made by the appellant
 was out of non interest bearing funds. The appellant had share capital and
 reserves of Rs. 452.14 lacs as against the investment of Rs. 295 lacs. It was
 contended that the investment in the shares had been made in .private limited
 company shares and the dividend income is not tax free in case of private
 company. 6.1.2 The appellant contended that the investment in share is out of non-interest
 bearing funds in the form of capital and reserves which are in excess of the
 interest free investment made. I find that this contention is based on the overall
 macro analysis of the figures in balance sheet, where it is presumed that all the
 interest free funds available in the balance sheet were used only for making
 these investments in shares, irrespective of the dates of their utilization. This
 presumption cannot hold good where borrowed funds and own funds are mixed.
 In .this situation it cannot be claimed that the interest free investments were out
 of non-interest bearing funds. The appellant has not provided details of the
 source of the investment in shares on a day to day basis before the AO in
 support of its claim that the interest free investments were out of non-interest
 bearing funds. In this regard reference is made to the case of the Dhanuka &
 Sons Vs. CIT 339 ITR 319 (Cal) where in it was held that since the assessee was
 unable to produce material to show the source of acquisition of shares and to
 show that no interest was paid by it then proportionate disallowance out of
 interest expenses was justified, in the course of appellate proceedings, the
 appellant expressed his inability to provide details of the break-up of the mixed
 funds towards investments in shares from the funds available in form of capital
 and reserves as per order sheet entry dated 04/12/2015. Therefore, in the instant
 case where the funds are mixed and no separate linkage has been established
 by the appellant, it is difficult to consider and accept the proposition of the
 appellant. 6.1.3 In the case of Maxopp Investment Ltd. & Others Vs. CIT 247 CTR (Del)
 162, Hon'ble High Court of Delhi has observed that prior to introduction of section
 14A , the law was that if the assessee was having a composite and individual
 business which had elements of both taxable and non-taxable income, the entire
 expenditure was deductible. If business was divisible, the principal of
 apportionment of expenses was applicable and the expenditure apportioned to
 the exempt income or income not exigible to tax was not allowed as deduction.
 While introducing section 14A intention of the legislature was that no deduction
 shall be made in respect of any expenditure incurred by the assessee in relation
 to income which does not form part of the total income under the Act. The basic
 I.T.A No. 491/Ahd/2016 A.Y. 2012-13 Page No 5
M/s. Soft Touch Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT object of section 14A is to disallow the direct and indirect expenditure incurred in
 relation to income which does not form part of the total income. 6.1.4 In the case of Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing'Co. Ltd. Vs. CIT 328-ITR 81
 (Born) the Hon'ble High Court of Bombay has observed that the following
 principles would emerge from section 14A and the decision in CIT v. Walfort
 Share and Stock Brokers P. Ltd. [2010] 326 ITR 1 (SC): 6.1.5 The appellant has submitted that efforts have been made to show that
 there is no nexus between the borrowed funds and investment in shares.
 Therefore, there was no' application of section 14A , This contention is not
 acceptable in view of the decision of the ITAT, Delhi Spl. Bench in the case of Cheminvest Ltd. Vs. ITO 124 TTJ (Del) SB 577 in which it has been held >' that
 disallowance u/s. 14 can be made irrespective of the fact whether any income is
 earned by assessee or not. Expenditure in relation to income is wider in scope
 and provide for disallowance if related to income not forming part of total income.
 6.1.6 The appellant has submitted that the investment was made in shares out of
 commercial expediency. In the case of Maxopp Investment Ltd. 247 CTR (Del), it
 has been held by the Hon'ble High Court that the investment in shares for gaining
 controlling interest is hit by the provisions of section 14A . 6.1.7 Recently, Hon'ble Delhi High Court has in the case of CIT v/s Taikisha
 Engineering India Ltd. after considering the above mentioned decisions vide
 order dated 09-03-2015, has held that disallowance of expenses made u/s 14A of the IT Act on exempt income, is valid if AO is not satisfied with the claim made
 by the assessee. The method for computing such disallowance has been
 prescribed under Rule 8D of the IT Rule. It was also held that if Rule 8D applies,
 assessee's claim that interest is not disallowable on ground of "own funds" is not
 acceptable. 6.1.8 Further, reliance is being placed on the decision of Hon'ble High Court of
 Kerala in the case of The South Indian Bank Ltd. v/s Commissioner of Income
 Tax in IT Appeal No. 189 of 2011 vide order dated 22nd January, 2014, 105 DTR
 (Ker) 299(2014), it was held that provisions of section 14A of the IT Act enables
 the AO to disallow expenditure incurred by the assessee relating to income/which
 does not form part of total income under the IT Act . The sub section (2) to section
 14A of the IT Act was introduced w.e.f. 1st April, 2007 and it provides how the
 disallowance has to be worked out. This procedure-has been prescribed under
 I.T.A No. 491/Ahd/2016 A.Y. 2012-13 Page No 6
M/s. Soft Touch Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT rule 8D as well, wherein sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 14A of the IT Act are
 only of a clarificatory nature and do not amount to the charging provision. 6.1.9 If the appellant has made investment in shares and the appellant is not
 trader in shares then appellant which earns the income from shares is only
 'dividend' and since the 'dividend' is exempt therefore, section 14A is applicable.
 The AO has observed in the course of assessment proceedings that there were
 no interest free funds available with the appellant and the investment in shares
 have been made out of the interest bearing funds. The appellant has
 made/investments on which no income has been brought in the books of account
 of the company and disallowance out of interest expenses has been made in
 view of the provisions of section 14A of the Act. On the perusal of the details, it is
 observed that the appellant had made investment in shares of two companies of
 Rs. 295 lacs while the company had share capital and reserves of Rs. 452.14
 lacs available. 6.1.10 Section 14A was first inserted by the Finance Act, 2001 . However, same
 was inserted with retrospective effect from 1-4-1962. The inserted section reads
 as '14A. Expenditure incurred in relation to income not includible in total income.
 For the purposes of computing the total income under this Chapter, no deduction
 shall be allowed in respect of expenditure incurred by the assesses in relation to
 income which does not form part of the total income under this Act.' The purpose
 for which the section was introduced, and given in the explanatory memorandum
 issued with the Finance Bill, 2001, the most relevant part reads as under:-- hoc additions were being made. Subsequently" another amendment by the Finance Act, 2006 to section 14A enlarged the scope of applicability of
 section'14A. The new sub-sections w.e.f. 1-4-2007 read as under:-- The reasons for the above amendment were explained in explanatory statement
 for the Finance Act, 2006 under Circular No. 14/2006, dated 28-12-2006 in para 11. It.is reproduced hereunder:-'11. Method for allocating expenditure in relation
 to exempt income. I.T.A No. 491/Ahd/2016 A.Y. 2012-13 Page No 7
M/s. Soft Touch Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT 11.1 Section 14A of the Income-tax Act, 1961, provides that for the purposes of
 computing the total income under Chapter-IV of the said Act, no deduction shall
 be allowed in respect of expenditure incurred by the assessee in relation to
 income which does not form part of the total income under the Income-tax Act in
 the existing provisions of section 14A , however, no method of computing the
 expenditure incurred in relation to income which does not form part of the total
 income has been provided for. Consequently, there is considerable dispute
 between the taxpayers and the Department on the method of- determining such
 expenditure. 11.2 In view of the above, a new sub-section (2) has been inserted in section
 14A so as to provide that it would be mandatory for the Assessing Officer to
 determine the amount of expenditure incurred in relation to such income which
 does not form part of the total income in accordance with such method as may
 be prescribed. However, the Assessing Officer shall follow the prescribed method
 if, having regard to the accounts of the assessee, he is not satisfied with the
 correctness of the claim of the assessee in respect of expenditure in relation to
 income which does not form part of the total income. Provisions of subsection
 (2), will also be applicable in relation to a case where an assessee claims that no
 expenditure has been incurred by him in relation to income which does not form
 part of the total income. 11.3 Applicability from assessment year 2007-08 onwards.'
 6.1.12 Subsequently, Rules for determination of disallowance were prescribed
 "vide IT, (5th Amend,) Rules, 2008, w.e.f. 24-3-2008. Further, under Form 3CD, a
 column was also inserted w.e.f. 23-8-2006 vide the Income-tax (Ninth
 Amendment) Rules, 2006 regarding amount of disallowance under section 14A .
 Hence, it is the liability of tax auditor to give appropriate finding in this regard.
 After prescribing formula for determination of disallowance under section 14A the
 scope of liability to disclose relevant facts has also been enlarged. The scope
 and applicability of section w.e.f. 1-4-2007 of section 14A is as under:- made by the AO u/s 14A of the IT Act is confirmed and the grounds of appeal is
 dismissed." 6. We have heard the rival contention and perused the material on
record. We have gone through the submission of the assessee that
the said investment was made by the assessee company out of non-
interest bearing funds comprising share capital & reserves of Rs.
452.14 lacs as against investment of Rs. 295 lacs. The assessee
also submitted that company had made investment in the shares of
private limited company and the dividend income to be earned in
future would not be tax free in case of private company. We have
also perused the judicial pronouncement In the case of CIT v
Corrtech Energy (p) Ltd (2014) 45 taxmann.com. 116 of Hon'ble High
Court of Gujarat held that as per section 14A of income Tax Act 1961
read with rule 8D of the income tax rules 1962 expenditure incurred in
relation to income not includable in income in a case assessee did
not make any claim for exemption of any income from payment of
taxes , in that case disallowance u/s 14A of the act could not be
made. It is crystal clear that the jurisdictional High Court has decided
to attract the provision of section 14A it is required that assessee
should have earned an exempt income, if the assessee has not
earned an exempt income and not claimed so in the return of income
then the provision of section 14A are not applicable. We find that
during the year under consideration the assessee company has not
 I.T.A No. 491/Ahd/2016 A.Y. 2012-13 Page No 9
M/s. Soft Touch Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT earned any exempt income and has not claimed any such exempt
income in the return of income therefore as per our considered
opinion the provision of section 14A are not applicable. In view of the
above mentioned facts and legal findings we find the decision of the
Ld. CIT(A) is not justified, therefore, we allow the appeal of the
assessee on this issue. Disallowance of unsecured loan u/s. 68 of the Act 7. During the course of assessment proceedings, the assessing
officer noticed that the assessee company has received unsecured
loan of Rs.60 lacs from the five parties as mentioned at para 5.1 of
the assessment order. The assessing officer assessing officer had issued notice u/s.
133(6) of the act to prove the identity, genuineness and
creditworthiness of the unsecured loan providers as per provisions u/s. 68 of the act. The assessing officer further mentioned analysis of the
lenders briefly as under :- While considering the scope of Section 68 , the Supreme Court observed as
 follows: 6.2.21. The onus of establishing the nature of a cash credit is on the assessee
 and if he fails to offer a reasonable explanation, the AO may presume that it
 represents an 'income receipt'. So too, the onus of proving that such income
 receipt did not fall under the head 'income from other sources' was on the
 assessee. If the assessee did not place any satisfactory material before the AO
 to enable him to arrive at a contrary conclusion, the AO might presume that the
 cash credit fell under the head 'Income from other sources'. The presumption that
 an unexplained cash credit is an 'income from other sources' are presumptions
 which flow naturally from the circumstances that all facts which can establish the
 nature and source of the cash credit are peculiarly within the knowledge of the
 assessee. It may be that the onus of displacing the presumptions may be heavy
 in some cases and light in others, depending on the facts and circumstances of
 the case. But, the presumptions are there and the burden of rebutting the
 presumptions is on the assessee. Commissioner of Income-tax v. Devi Prasad
 Vishwanath Ptasad J1969 ] 72 ITR 194,196,197 (SC).}" 6.2.23. Section 68 of the Act clearly shows that any sum found credited in the
 books of an assessee maintained for a previous year may be charged to income-
 tax as the income of the assessee of that previous year, if (a ) the assessee
 offers no explanation about the nature and source of such sum, or (b ) the
 explanation offered by him is, in the opinion of Assessing Officer, not satisfactory.
 As a matter of fact, section 68 is a statutory recognition, of what was previously
 established by judicial decisions to the effect that where certain sums of money
 were claimed by the assessee to have been borrowed from certain persons, it
 was for the assessee to prove by cogent and proper evidence that there were
 genuine borrowings as the facts are exclusively within the assessee's knowledge.
 In deciding an issue of this nature, there cannot be one general or universal
 proposition of law which could be the guiding yardstick in the matter. Each case
 has go to be decided on the facts arid circumstances of that case. The
 surrounding-circumstances to be considered must, however, be objective facts,
 evidence adduced before the authorities, presumption of facts based on common
 human experience in life and reasonable conclusions. lr>.' holding a particular
 receipt to be income from undisclosed source, the fate of the assessee cannot be
 decided by the authorities on the basis of surmises, suspicions or probabilities.
 Hon'ble Supreme Court's decision in the case of CIT v. Durga Prasad More [1971] 82 ITR 540 which is as follows--at page 546 of the decision: The first limb is the creation of the shell companies with substantial share capital
 which is balanced with inventories in the form of shares in other shell companies. I.T.A No. 491/Ahd/2016 A.Y. 2012-13 Page No 15
M/s. Soft Touch Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT

 The second limb is the transfer of such shell companies to persons who desire to
 use such substantial share capital companies for converting their unaccounted
 money into accounted funds and use such shell companies to do legitimate
 business. The third limb is when the shell companies after being taken over, the
 assets in the form of inventories are encashed whereby the unaccounted monies
 are laundered and brought into the company for conducting the legitimate
 business. All these three limbs are not done in one assessment year but in
 different assessment years
 6.2.27. The Assessing Officer has brought certain facts on record to highlight that
 the loan received actually represents an accommodation entry. It could be
 proved that the company providing loan exists only on paper, it has no
 employees, the address given is only a postal address and the company does
 not have any physical set up at the given address, the same address is possibly
 being used as postal address for multiple companies indulging in to the same
 activity of providing accommodation entries The appellant was trying to press into
 service only the legal or de-jure identity of a creditor and could not adduce any
 evidence, of the de-faeto existence of the creditor company. The de-jure
 existence is a mere convenient facade of the de-facto existence of the creditor
 company. Such de-jure existence is self serving one, having been obtained
 through application and. other forms and formalities unilateral filed before the
 ROC etc.
 6.2.28. Thus, on overall consideration of facts and circumstances of the case and
 as discussed in detail above, the amounts claimed to be received by the
 appellant do not in any way appear to be genuine loans. They are nothing but
 arranged affairs being pre-ordained series of transactions and tax evasion device
 where money laundering transactions have been camouflaged as loans. Hence
 no credence can be placed on the copies of various documents filed to support;
 such claim of loans and addition of Rs. 60,00,000/- is hereby confirmed and
 grounds of appeal is dismissed." 8. During the course of appellate proceedings before us, ld.
counsel has stated that ld. CIT(A) has erred in confirming the
addition on account of unsecured loan of Rs. 60 lacs u/s. 68 of the
act without considering the supporting detail and information
furnished by the assessee during the course of assessment
proceedings before assessing officer and during the course of
appellate proceedings before ld. CIT(A) . Ld. counsel has also
referred the different pages of paper book submitted during the
course of appellate proceedings showing information regarding
written submission filed before ld. CIT(A) and before assessing
 I.T.A No. 491/Ahd/2016 A.Y. 2012-13 Page No 16
M/s. Soft Touch Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT officer, confirmation of all lending companies, relevant bank
statement of all the lending companies, ledger a/c of lenders, letter
filed by the lenders in respect of notice u/s. 133(6) of the act,
acknowledgement of return of income of lending companies, audit
report along with audited financial statement of all lending companies,
sanction letter obtained from SBI for SLC Credit facilities, minutes of
Board Resolution for unsecured loan, relevant bank statement of the
assesse company, detail of interest payment made during the year
etc. Ld. counsel has also filed copies of judicial pronouncements of
hon'ble high court of Gujarat in the cases of CIT, Rajkot vs. Ayachi
Chandrashekhar Narsangji and in the case of CIT vs. Apex Therm
Packaging P. Ltd. On the other hand the departmental representative
relied on the order of the ld. CIT(A). 9. We have heard both the sides and perused the material on
record. We have noticed that subsequently at the appellate
proceedings the Ld.CIT(A) has raised certain queries briefly
regarding the decision of the Board of Directors of raising loans, how
the assessee came in contact with these four companies, any other
financial transactions these 4 companies having in last 3 preceding/
subsequent assessment years and what was the purpose of the
loans. We have also noticed the explanation and submission made
by the assesseet in response to the queries raised by the Ld.CIT(A)
reproduced as under:- We have noticed that during the course of appellate proceedings the
Ld. CIT(A) has issued directions u/s 250(4) of the Act on 04.12.2015
to the assessing officer to get enquiries conducted from the
investigation Wing Kolkata regarding the existence of the 5
companies on their given addresses. We have noticed that Ld.CIT(A)
stated that the assessing officers reported that the commission u/s
131(1)(d) of the Act was issued to the Investigation Wing Kolkata on
14.12.20-15.and it was informed that the companies were found to
be nonexistent on the given addresses
 In this connection we have also noticed the assessee's
explained submitted to Ld.CIT(A) reproduced as under:- I.T.A No. 491/Ahd/2016 A.Y. 2012-13 Page No 18
M/s. Soft Touch Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT

 "The findings of the department are not correct based on the following facts- 1. All the depositors are corporate entities and are duly registered with the
 registrar of companies. Details with respect to their incorporations were duty
 submitted to the learned AO and also in our earlier submissions made before the
 Ld.CIT(A). 2. The status of all the companies are dully considered as Active Status in the
 records of the Company Master Data obtained from the Ministry of Company
 affairs. Copies of the latest company master data was submitted to the
 Ld.CIT(A). The lenders were maintaining and having operative banking accounts with
 regular dealings in these accounts. Copies of the latest bank accounts of the
 lenders were also furnished to the Ld.CIT(A). and the latest bank statements
 weree reflecting the same address. 4. It wass further submitted that during the course of assessment proceedings
 the learned AO had issued notices under section 133 (6) of the act to conduct
 direct inquiries. The said notices were duly served and were also complied with.
 The copies of such replies were also provided to the Ld.CIT(A). 5. It was further submitted to the Ld.CIt(A) that the notices issued by the
 Income Tax department on the lenders in the matter of other assesses, were also
 duly served upon the lendors on the same addressees. The assessee had also
 furnished Copies of the few such letters to the Ld.CIT(A). 6. It was also submitted by the assessee that in case of one depositor company
 Chanderi Graphics Private Limited the assessment of the said company for A.Y
 2012-13 was made under section 143(3) of the act and the notice under section
 143(2) of the act issued by the department on the same address was duly served
 upon the safd depositor company. Copy of the said notice issued under section
 143(2) of the act was also provided to the Ld.CIT(A). 7. It was further submitted by the assessee to the Ld.CIT(A)that
 cheques/drafts issued and posted by the Income Tax departments for refunds
 to the depositor companies on the same addresses were duly served.The
 assessee had also provided the supporting evidences. 8. The assessee had also informed that the lenders were duly registered with
 the Department of Profession Tax of West Bengal. The said registration had
 been granted by the West Bengal Government on the same address.
 It was also submitted by the assessee that the receipts of the said Shop and
 Establishment renewal fees are also reflecting the same address as room No.
 124A, 53A Surya Sen Street, 1st Floor, Kolkotta, West Bengal." We have also perused the judicial pronouncement in the case of
CIT-2 v.D& H Enterprises(2016) 72 taxmann.com.91(Gujarat High
Court) in which it was held that the solitary reason of not serving of
summons cannot be relied only by ignoring the other relevant
material produced by the assessee. The relevant part of this judicial
 I.T.A No. 491/Ahd/2016 A.Y. 2012-13 Page No 19
M/s. Soft Touch Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT pronouncement in the case of CIT-2 v.D& H Enterprises(2016) 72
taxmann.com.91(Gujarat High Court) is reproduced as under:- We have perused the above judicial pronouncement and after
considering the material on record, we have noticed that assessing
officer and Ld.CIT(A) has not elaborated and described in detail the
 I.T.A No. 491/Ahd/2016 A.Y. 2012-13 Page No 21
M/s. Soft Touch Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT complete facts pertaining to not serving the notices upon these
lenders. The Assessing Officer has not even made reference to any
particular witness in whose presence the process server had tried to
locate the alleged lenders. We have also considered that the
assessing officer and the Ld.CIT(A) had not rebutted the supporting
material and evidences furnished during the course of assessment
proceedings and appellate proceedings as elaborated in this order.
We have further perused the judicial pronouncement in the case of
CIT v Apex Therm Packaging P. Ltd ITA no.1070 of 2013 vide which
the Hon'ble High Court Gujarat held that in case full particulars,
inclusive of the confirmation with the name, address and pan number,
copy of the income tax returns, balance sheet, profit and loss account
and computation of the total income in respect of all the creditors,
lenders were furnished and the loans were received through
cheques, the loan account are duly reflected in the balance sheet
the assessing officer was not justified in making the addition. We
have noticed that in the case of the assessee, the confirmation with
the name, address, copy of ledger account, copy of balance sheet
and profit and loss account, copy of income tax returns and
computation of total income in respect of all the parties were filed
before the assessing officer. We have also perused the judicial
pronouncement in the case of CIT-Rajkot vAyachi Chandrashekhar
Narsangji in which the Hon'ble High Court of Gujarat held that in
case the loan amount has been repaid by the assessee in the
immediate next financial years that indicate that the department has
accepted the repayment of loan without proving into it. We have also
 I.T.A No. 491/Ahd/2016 A.Y. 2012-13 Page No 22
M/s. Soft Touch Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT observed that it was undisputed fact that the assessee had repaid
considerable amount of the loans to the lenders in the next year
along with the interest amount. The assessment records of all the lenders are available with
the income tax department and the assessing officer could have
easily verify the same. We have also noticed that not any lender has
made denial of not extending any loan to the assessee company. We have also noticed that all the transactions have been made
through proper banking channels. The submission made by the
assessee that the net worth of the lending companies were very high,
the identity, creditworthiness, genuineness of the transactions have
not been disproved by the assessing officer with cogent and
concrete supporting evidences. The amounts in question had been
received by way of account payee cheques. Having regard to the fact
that the permanent account numbers and the income tax returns of all
the investors had been furnished by the assessee, the Assessing
Officer could have easily verified the same. We have noticed that all
the transactions of advances received were made through bank only
and the assessing officer should have verified these transactions
with the relevant banks and should have made further inquiries in this
regard, which she has failed to do so. In all the cases the lenders
were filing their returns on regular basis and copies of the returns of
income were produced for verification in support of his case. Not any
evidence had been brought on the record which even remotely
indicated that the money originally belonged to the assessee and it
had returned back to the assessee again. We observed that during
 I.T.A No. 491/Ahd/2016 A.Y. 2012-13 Page No 23
M/s. Soft Touch Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT the assessment proceedings the assessee had furnished the details
of the persons from whom loan had been received stating, name and
the address, PAN, copy of account confirmation, copy of
acknowledgement of ROI, copy of relevant portion of their bank
account and the copies of the audited annuals accounts. Further we
have noticed that the assessing officer had issued notices u/s 133(6) of the act and all the notices were duly complied by the lenders.
Thus, from the facts noted hereinabove, it is evident that the
assessee had produced all relevant details in its possession, namely,
names, permanent account numbers, income tax returns, and bank
statements of all the investors. The lower authorities have made
findings mostly on the basis of assumption based on own analysis
without disproving the supporting and evidences produced by the
assessee as elaborated supra in this order. After considering the
above stated facts and judicial findings as per our considered opinion
the Ld. CIT(A) is not justified in sustaining the addition made by the
assessing officer. 10. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed.