Judgment / Order
 (4 of 19)
 [ CW-15006/2016]

5th May, 2017

 All the above-mentioned writ petitions shall stand decided by

this common order as the issued involved is identical. For

convenience, the facts are being taken from S.B. Civil Writ Petition

No.9827/2016. The prayer in the writ petition is to set aside the impugned

show cause notice dated 09.06.2016 as well as the termination

order dated 10.08.2016 passed by the respondents; with a further

prayer that the experience certificate so issued in their favour be

declared as valid and genuine. In pursuance to the advertisement dated 21.10.2014, the

petitioner applied for the recruitment on the post of Junior Cotton

Purchaser. The petitioner was selected in pursuance to the written

examination followed by an interview. The petitioner joined on the

said post vide appointment letter dated 03.03.2015 on probation

for one year from the date of appointment with a further

stipulation that same was liable to be extended at the discretion of

the appointing authority at any time. Subsequent to the

appointment, the petitioner was made to undergo training

conducted by the respondent Corporation. The petitioner

successfully completed the same and the relevant certificate was

also issued by the respondent department to the said effect.

Suddenly, a show cause notice was issued on 9.6.2016 mentioning

therein that the experience certificate submitted by the petitioner

was false and that he had played fraud upon the Corporation and
 (5 of 19)
 [ CW-15006/2016]

the appointment order is void ab initio. The petitioner submitted

his reply to the show cause notice but the respondent department

after finding the reply as not satisfactory, terminated the services

of the petitioner vide order dated 10.08.2016. While praying for setting aside the impugned order, the

learned counsel for the petitioners submitted that the order of

termination has been passed without holding any enquiry. The

impugned notice and the impugned termination order show that

the same is on the basis of specific allegation declaring that the

petitioner has committed serious misconduct by indulging in

fraudulent means to secure employment in the Corporation.

Hence, the same could not have been passed without holding a

proper enquiry and was one sided enquiry and therefore, not a

proper enquiry under the law. It was contended that no doubt, the

probation period of the petitioner had been extended and the

order of termination was passed before confirmation, however, still

a regular enquiry was necessary as the order, on the face of it, is

stigmatic. Reliance is placed on the judgment rendered by the

Apex Court in the case of Union of India & Ors. Vs. Mahaveer

C. Singhvi :: (2010) 8 SCC 220 to contend that "if finding

against probationer is arrived at behind his back on basis of

enquiry conducted into allegations made against him/her and if

same formed foundation of discharge order, same would be bad

and liable to be set aside". Learned counsel for the petitioner further contended that the

enquiry report was submitted on the basis of an enquiry
 (6 of 19)
 [ CW-15006/2016]

conducted by the Corporation at its own level. The petitioner

requested that the enquiry report be supplied to him in order to

enable him to file his reply. However, the same was not supplied

causing prejudice to the petitioner and therefore, the very enquiry

is vitiated. It is further argued that the certificate submitted by

the petitioner was verified by the Corporation and scrutinised

before he was subjected to interview and that there was no

material on record to show that the experience certificate of the

petitioner was forged or false. The respondent No.3 who issued

the certificate has not denied that the certificate is false or forged.

The respondent No.3 - Saraswat Cotton Company did not refuse

the issuance of experience certificate as it was related for the

period for which the petitioner has worked there and the salary

was paid in cash and just because deductions were not made by

the company during the tenure, it cannot be said that the

experience certificate issued to him was false. Reply has been filed. As per the reply filed by the

respondents, the probation period of the petitioner was extended

after completion of one year's probation vide order dated 9.3.2016

by another six months. The services of the probationer on the

basis of an unsubstantiated experience certificate is liable to be

terminated. No proof that he was working with Saraswat Cotton

Company has either been filed in response to the show cause

notice nor filed along with the writ petition and thus, the stand of

the petitioner justifying the experience certificate does not inspire

any confidence. During vigilance enquiry, it was revealed that
 (7 of 19)
 [ CW-15006/2016]

employer Saraswat Cotton Company, Sri Ganganagar did not

furnish any supporting or cogent material to support the disputed

experience certificate. The petitioner did not even furnish any

cogent evidence like salary register, pay slips, bank account

details, PF deduction details, attendance register copy etc. to

support his experience certificate. It is submitted that since the

petitioner was still continuing on probation, there was no need to

hold regular enquiry under CCA Rules. A show cause notice was

issued to him. In reply to the show cause notice, he did not

furnish any evidence at all. Neither his employer furnished any

proof or was able to support the issuance of experience certificate. Learned counsel for the parties were heard at length.

 As per the advertisement, a candidate was required to have

experience of minimum one year of dealing in any

Agriculture Commodities in reputed

organization/enterprise besides the other academic and

professional qualifications. As per Clause 14 of the said

advertisement, the services of a candidate were liable to be

terminated at any stage, in case any part of the application form

was found to be false or incomplete. Clause 14 of the

advertisement reads as under:- (8 of 19)
 [ CW-15006/2016]

 While filing the application form, the following declaration

was required to be given by each candidate:- As per the enquiry conducted by the respondent-authorities,

the finding recorded against the petitioner Govind Ram in CWP

No.9827/2016 is as under: In this case, the experience certificate did not corroborate

the period of experience filled in the application form. The

argument that the experience certificate was verified from the

employer does not help as the information in the application form

is both incorrect and false. If the certificate is accepted, the

experience comes to less than one year and in the application
 (9 of 19)
 [ CW-15006/2016]

form, the experience is mentioned as more than one year. Further,

no supporting document of pay slip, bank account or attendance

register etc. is placed on record as submitted with reply to show

cause notice. In Civil Writ Petition No. 15006/2016, a show cause notice

was issued on 8.6.2016 and the services of the petitioner were

terminated on 16.09.2016. As per the enquiry conducted by the

respondent-authorities, the finding recorded against the petitioner

Praveen Kumar Jain is as under:- A perusal of the para 11 of the petition - CWP

No.15006/2016 in fact shows admission by the petitioner that the

Ex-employer - respondent No.5 denied that any record of the

services of the petitioner was available with him. In Civil Writ Petition No. 7291/2016, a show cause notice

was issued on 6.5.2016 and the services of the petitioner were

terminated on 7.6.2016. Mr. Kuldeep Mathur, learned counsel for

the petitioner contended that employer of the petitioner Mr. R.S.

Gupta had verified that the petitioner had worked with him. Thus,
 (10 of 19)
 [ CW-15006/2016]

the experience certificate cannot be said to be false. However, in

his case too, as per the enquiry conducted by the respondent-

authorities, the finding recorded against the petitioner Nirdosh

Kumar is as under:- It was therefore submitted by the learned counsel for the

respondents that if the Head Office had the record of a similarly

situated person Shailender Kumar, then the non availability of the

record of the petitioner in the Head Office shows that the

certificate was obtained with connivance of the authority issuing

the certificate. Moreover, no proof of salary etc. has been placed

on record. In Civil Writ Petition No. 14870/2016, a show cause notice

was issued on 8.6.2016 and the services of the petitioner were

terminated on 04.08.2016. In this case, the petitioner went ahead

and submitted his resignation. However, his resignation was

rejected. It is contended that the respondents should have

accepted the resignation instead of passing the order of

termination. As per the enquiry conducted by the respondent-

authorities, the finding recorded against the petitioner Vivek

Kumar is as under:- In the present case, it has already been discussed above

that not an iota of evidence was provided either by the alleged

employer who issued the experience certificate, neither any such

evidence was submitted by the petitioner along with his reply to

the show cause notice and nor any document worth the name has

been placed on record even before this Court along with the writ

petition which gives rise to the conclusion that the petitioners

have actually no cogent evidence at all and therefore, the

suspicion surrounding the experience certificate was converted

into confirmation of the fact that the said experience certificate

was obtained in connivance with the said employer for the purpose

of securing employment with the respondent-Corporation. In these circumstance, where the very appointment is on the

basis of a false information and certificate, this Court is of the

considered view that the petitioner being on probation, is not

entitled to the same right as available to a permanent employee.

This view is supported by the decision of the Supreme Court in Union of India V. M. Bhaskaran :: 1995 Suppl (4) SCC 100

where their Lordships held thus: The judgment rendered by the Division Bench of Bombay

High Court in the case of Chandrashekhar and Ors. Vs. State

of Maharashtra and Ors. :: 2017(1) BomCR577 while holding

that a departmental enquiry would be necessary before passing

order of termination/dismissal only in case of an employee is

confirmed in service, relied on the judgments rendered by the

Apex Court in the case of Union of India V. M. Bhaskaran :: There is no dispute with the law laid down in the case of Union of India & Ors. Vs. Mahaveer C. Singhvi (supra). However,

the same does not help in the facts of the present case. In the

said case, allegation was alleged on account of misconduct

committed during the period of service, while performing his

duties. Herein, the very appointment is based on false certificate

produced by the petitioner and moreover sufficient opportunity to

produce evidence of salary, attendance register, etc. in support of

the work experience was provided to the petitioners but he failed

to do so. (14 of 19)
 [ CW-15006/2016]

 The larger Bench of the Apex Court in the case of R.

Vishwanatha Pillai Vs. State of Kerala and Others :: (2004)

5 SCC 105 upheld the order of termination of the Deputy

Superintendent of Police wherein the Government of Kerala on the

basis of complaint had conducted a preliminary investigation and

found that the appellant did not belong to the SC community but

was appointed as a direct recruit to the post of Deputy

Superintendent of Police against a seat reserved for Scheduled

Caste on the basis of a certificate issued to him to the said effect.

The appellant was issued a notice and after examining the

documents produced by the appellant, the Scrutiny Committee

rejected the appellant's claim. The Central Administrative Tribunal

directed that the services of the petitioner be not terminated

without following the procedure laid down under Article 311 and

also under the Rules. The Kerala High Court reversed the decision

after relying the judgment rendered in the case of Kumari

Madhuri Patil Vs. Addl . Commr., Tribal Develoopment :: 17. The point was again examined by a Full Bench of
the Patna High Court in Rita Mishra Vs. Director,
Primary Education, Bihar . The question posed before
the Full Bench was whether a public servant was
entitled to payment of salary to him for the work done
despite the fact that his letter of appointment was
forged, fraudulent or illegal. The Full Bench held: 18. We agree with the view taken by the Patna High
Court in the aforesaid cases." (16 of 19)
 [ CW-15006/2016]

 In each of the above present writ petitions, the petitioners

had given an undertaking while submitting his application form for

employment that all the statements made in the application were

true, complete and correct and that in case the information was

found to be incorrect or false, his service were liable to be

automatically cancelled whether such information was detected

before or after the interview/selection. Moreover, even as per the

advertisement, the candidature/appointment was liable to be

revoked at any stage of the recruitment process as well as the

recruitment without any reference given to the candidate

concerned in case the information with respect to the eligibility

was found to be false in any manner. In spite of their above stipulation in the advertisement and

declaration as above, the respondents authorities issued a show

cause notice to provide any proof in support of the experience

certificate. As discussed above, not an iota of proof was provided.

So much so, even before this Court, no document or evidence in

support of experience certificate has been placed on record. Thus,

for the sake of argument, even if a regular enquiry is ordered to

be held, it would be a mere formality and futility. In any case, identical writ petition has already been

dismissed by the Division Bench of Bombay High Court in the case

of Shri Gaurav W. Watane Vs. the Cotton Corporation of

India Limited and Ors. (Writ Petition No.3137 of 2016) by

holding as under:- A contradictory order dated 4.1.2017 has been passed by

the Single Bench of High Court of State of Telangana and the

State of Andhra Pradesh in WA No. 240 of 2017 & other connected

matters by holding that the Corporation cannot take the stand

that it is a termination simpliciter, therefore, without conducting a

departmental enquiry into the allegations leveled against the

petitioners, it is not open for the Corporation to terminate their

services by passing the impugned orders. However, the said order has been stayed by the Division

Bench of the High Court of State of Telengana and State of Andhra

Pradesh in WAMP No.509 of 2017 in WA NO.240 of 2017 :: In view of the above discussion, this Court finds no ground

to set aside the impugned orders having been passed after holding
 (19 of 19)
 [ CW-15006/2016]

fact finding enquiry and taking into consideration the reply to the

show cause notice which in the facts and circumstance amounts to

sufficient opportunity. The appointment of the petitioner was

subject to verification of documents and other information

provided in the declaration. The documents being verified as false,

no right accrued to the petitioner to seek continuation in service.

The petitioner could have utilised the opportunity to place some

kind of proof along with its reply to the show cause notice but

failed to do so. Neither has any document of salary/bank

account/attendance register placed before this Court along with

the writ petition. The experience certificate being false renders the

very appointment as bad in the eyes of law. Therefore, the

petitioners being on probation are not entitled to be treated the

same way in the circumstances of the case as others who stand

confirmed. The petitioner being wrongly appointed cannot be said

to be holding a civil post as observed by the Apex Court in the

case of R. Vishwanatha Pillai (supra). Moreover, as noticed above,

similar writ petition has already been dismissed by the Division

Bench of Bombay High Court. The writ petitions are accordingly dismissed being devoid of

merit. (NIRMALJIT KAUR), J. praveen