1. Heard Shri Mundargi, learned Senior Advocate for the

 appellant and Shri Yadav, Learned APP appearing for the

 State. 2. This is a second application for bail by the applicant- Waryam Singh Kartar Singh in this Court. The earlier

 application being Bail Application No. 800 of 2022 was

 rejected on merits by this Court vide order dated

 21/02/2023. Having regard to the gravity of the accusations

 against the applicant, before I proceed to consider this

 application on the grounds now raised, it is expedient to 1/27 Urmila Ingale 905-ba-2362-23.doc

reproduce the earlier order dated 21/02/2023 for ease of

reference and to appreciate the magnitude of this serious

economic offence alleged which reads thus: Unity Small Finance Bank Ltd. opposed the application
 and submitted that the dereliction of the duty on the part
 of the applicant is willful and deliberate. It is urged that 3/27 Urmila Ingale 905-ba-2362-23.doc

 the materials in the charge-sheet clearly indicate the
 complicity of the applicant and that in his capacity as a
 Chairman, the applicant has taken an active part in
 commission of the financial fraud. According to them, this
 is not a case of mere omission in the discharge of his
 functions. 9. Heard learned counsel. The charge-sheet from page
 222 onwards of the paper-book reveals the role of the
 applicant reading thus: 10. The accusations against the applicant are serious. So
 far as the bye-laws are concerned on which much
 emphasis is placed by learned counsel for the applicant,
 provides for the powers and functions of the Chairperson.
 The same reads thus: It needs to be borne in mind that the accusations reveal
 the applicant's complicity in perpetrating the financial
 fraud. The applicant allegedly utilised his position to
 conceal facts thereby painting a rosy picture about the
 financial condition of the bank and in the process, by
 violating the prevalent banking norms and guidelines not
 only actually assisted the main accused, but also utilised
 the banks resources for personal gains. Reliance on the
 bye-laws does not further the case of the applicant. 11. At this juncture, it is pertinent to reproduce the
 communication dated 21/09/2019 addressed by the
 Managing Director (accused no. 3) to the Chief General
 Manager, Reserve Bank of India. It is necessary to
 reproduce the entire letter to appreciate the extraordinary
 influence and control which the accused nos. 1 and 2 had
 on the said PMC Bank. will be sold to the Poddar group and the liquidation
 amount will be used for repayment of dues of our
 bank. 5) The Bank hand issued pay-orders to the court
 for retrieval from NCLT filed by various banks. 6) Bank has made payments to various bank to
 get the additional securities to backup our
 outstanding. 7) Every year during the corse of RBI inspection
 we undergo into a lot of stress due to concealment of
 Information from RBI. It was worrying each of us. We
 6 members of staff, who were fully aware of the
 situation decided to bring it into the notice of highest
 authority in Reserve Bank of India. On 18 th
 September 2019 we tried to get appointment with
 Deputy Governor. Since he was busy we got the
 appointment of Executive Director Dr. Rabi N. Mishra.
 We met the Executive Director and appraised him of
 our position and requested to give some time to save
 the bank. I submit that all the decisions for granting of
 overdrawals to these accounts was as per my
 instructions. The executives has no role in allowing
 overdrawals they were doing it as per my instructions
 as they had lot of faith in me and as a part of the
 system. Even in case of reporting the staff and
 executive had done in good faith. Managing Director." 12. Learned counsel for the applicant was at pains to
 point out that in view of the letter dated 21/09/2019,
 followed by the registration of the FIR dated 30/09/2019
 reveals that it is the Managing Director (accused no. 3) who
 had taken all decisions for granting overdrawals. According
 to him, the executives had no role in allowing the
 overdrawals which they were doing as per his instructions.
 No doubt, from this letter, it appears that the Managing
 Director has taken over upon himself the entire
 responsibilities of sanctioning of these irregular loans in
 favour of HDIL. According to the learned counsel, this
 completely exonerates the applicant. In view of what is
 discussed hereafter, this contention of learned counsel is
 completely devoid of substance. 13. While considering the application for bail by the
 present applicant who is 73 years of age and is now in
 custody for a period of 3 years and 4 months, I seek
 guidance from the decision of the Supreme Court relied
 upon by the learned counsel for the applicant in case of 1 Sanjay Chandra Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation .
 It would be profitable to reproduce paragraphs 39 to 44
 where Their Lordships observed thus : Statement of the witnesses runs to several hundred
 pages and the documents on which reliance is placed
 by the prosecution, is voluminous. The trial may take
 considerable time and it looks to us that the appellants,
 who are in jail, have to remain in jail longer than the
 period of detention, had they been convicted. It is not in
 the interest of justice that accused should be in jail for
 an indefinite period. No doubt, the offence alleged
 against the appellants is a serious one in terms of
 alleged huge loss to the State exchequer, that, by itself,
 should not deter us from enlarging the appellants on
 bail when there is no serious contention of the
 respondent that the accused, if released on bail, would
 interfere with the trial or tamper with evidence. We do
 not see any good reason to detain the accused in 13/27 Urmila Ingale 905-ba-2362-23.doc

 custody, that too, after the completion of the
 investigation and filing of the charge-sheet. 44. This Court, in the case of State of Kerala Vs.
 Raneef [(2011) 1 SCC 784 : (2011) 1 SCC (Cri) 409], has
 stated : (SCC p. 789, para 15)
 "15. In deciding bail applications an important factor
 which should certainly be taken into consideration
 by the court is the delay in concluding the trial.
 Often this takes several years, and if the accused is
 denied bail but is ultimately acquitted, who will
 restore so many years of his life spent in custody? Is Article 21 of the Constitution, which is the most
 basic of all the fundamental rights in our
 Constitution, not violated in such a case? Of course
 this is not the only factor, but it is certainly one of
 the important factors in deciding whether to grant
 bail. In the present case the respondent has already
 spent 66 days in custody (as stated in Para 2 of his
 counter-affidavit), and we see no reason why he
 should be denied bail. A doctor incarcerated for a
 long period may end up like Dr. Manette in Charles
 Dicken's novel A Tale of Two Cities, who forgot his
 profession and even his name in the Bastille." 14. It is pertinent to note that prior to the applicant
 taking over as the Chairman of the PMC Bank, the applicant
 was closely associated with HDIL group. The applicant was
 associated with accused No.1 since 1970. He was a Director
 with HDIL for the period 1999 till 2015. It is material to
 consider the stand of the respondents from the affidavit
 which has been filed by Shri Kishor Parab, Investigating
 Officer, Economic Offence Wing, Banking Unit, Mumbai. The
 relevant portion is reproduced, reading thus: Being Chairman of PMC Bank and custodian of depositor's
 hard earned money the said act of commission by
 accused applicant is very grave and attracts sections of IPC i.e. U/s. 406, 409. The concerned Managers of PMC
 Bank namely accused Suraj Dalvi from Accounts
 Department used to pay cash from Centralized Cash Vault
 of PMC Bank but Mr. Joy Thomas (A-3) and Smt. Manjit
 Kaur Ishwar Singh had instructed them not to make any
 formal entry in the records of account number of
 Centralized Cash Vault i.e. General Ledger Account
 No.001019001000001 & 001019001000002. However
 after May 2017 onwards, these officials were instructed to
 record entries of cash transactions in General Ledger
 Account No.001019001000001 & 001019001000002 and
 they started taking corresponding entries of cash
 payments accordingly. Though Mr. Suraj Dalvi, Mr. Sunil
 Karpe and Mr. Subahsh Gholap were instructed not to
 maintain formal records of cash paid transactions in the
 books, yet they used to maintain a separate book for
 keeping date wise records of cash paid to HDIL and its
 associates, Mr. Rakesh Wadhwan (A-1), Applicant Mr.
 Waryam Singh (A-4) and Mr. Joy Thomas (A-3) for their
 references, which enabled them to keep the records of
 cash paid to these people and cash received back from
 them. They have maintained 3 note books containing
 details of cash paid to HDIL and its associates, Mr. Rakesh
 Wadhwan (A-1), Applicant Mr. Waryam Singh (A-4) and Mr.
 Joy Thomas (A-3) and cash received back from them.
 During course of investigation these three notebooks were 16/27 Urmila Ingale 905-ba-2362-23.doc

 taken into custody under a Panchnama from above Bank
 official. In some instances they have paid cash to these
 people against cheques furnished by them and in some
 instances cash was paid to them without any cheque or
 any other instrument. Total shortfall in cash given to HDIL
 Group of companies, Applicant Waryam Singh (A-4) and
 Managing Director of Joy Thomas (A-3) is
 Rs.10,36,87,500/- which is yet to be recovered from them.
 Forensic Audit of M/s. Grant Thornton has given a detailed
 report on the same in their Forensic Report.
 Contentions and averments made by the applicant
 accused in his above application are hereby denied by
 Respondent as follows :- (emphasis mine) 15. Thus, it is seen that the applicant was closely
 associated with the HDIL group. He was a director of HDIL
 when the bank advanced loans worth crores of rupees to
 HDIL. The applicant became Chairman of the PMC Bank in
 2015. It is further pertinent to note that even after the
 applicant took over as Chairman of the PMC Bank in 2015,
 loans worth crores of rupees were advanced to HDIL. It is
 also alleged that the applicant has been responsible for
 cash withdrawal from the Bank to the tune of Rs.
 4,14,30,000/-. No doubt the same was returned within
 intervals of 3 months. The bye-laws provides that it is for
 the Chairman to supervise the general working of the 18/27 Urmila Ingale 905-ba-2362-23.doc

 Bank. Prima facie, from the accusations and materials on
 record, it could be reasonably seen that the applicant was
 aware of the irregular manner in which the loans were
 being advanced to the HDIL group during his
 Chairmanship. The accusations of financial fraud in the
 present case are serious in nature. The accusations are
 not restricted to section 420 of the IPC, but also extend to
 acts of forgery & falsification of documents & electronic
 records and acts of making alterations or deletions in
 electronic records to cause disappearance of material
 facts of HDIL group companies' credit exposure from RBI
 scanner. 16. The Managing Director (accused no.3) in his
 communication has clearly indicated that these
 irregularities while advancing loans of such a huge
 magnitude was being done and concealment of
 information from board, auditors and regulators was due
 to the fear of reputational loss. There are accusations
 that as many as 21000 fictitious accounts were opened
 only to facilitate smooth flow of the loan transactions in
 favour of the HDIL. Considering the nature of association
 of the present applicant with the accused nos. 1 and 2,
 and the manner in which financial benefits are doled out
 in favour of HDIL to the utter detriment of the depositors
 is nothing but breach of trust the investors reposed of the
 highest order. In my opinion, this is not a fit case to
 exercise discretion in favour of the applicant to grant him
 the facility of bail. The investment of Lakhs of depositors
 was handled in a shocking manner. These are not mere
 acts of omissions by the applicant. The nature of the
 accusations and the gravity of the economic offence
 which has shattered the confidence of the investors and
 robbed them of their hard earned money is such that I am
 dissuaded from exercising discretion in favour of the
 applicant though the applicant is 73 years of age and in
 custody for more than 3 years. No doubt the charge-
 sheet has been filed and the investigation is complete.
 The trial is likely to take a long time to conclude. However,
 the personal liberty of the applicant coupled with his right
 to a speedy trial will have to be balanced with the gravity
 of the accusations, the interest of the society and the
 manner in which the offence is alleged to have been
 committed. The question is how long the applicant should
 be kept incarcerated as an under-trial. It would be open
 for the applicant to apply for bail afresh after a reasonable 19/27 Urmila Ingale 905-ba-2362-23.doc

 period if the trial does not progress. The application
 stands rejected. The interim application stands disposed
 of." (emphasis mine) 16. Learned Senior Advocate for the applicant submitted

that the applicant is not a beneficiary. However, the main

accused benefitted at the cost gullible investors. Allegedly

the applicant has a major role in helping the co-accused

who are the beneficiaries. On merits, therefore, in view of

the aforesaid order, there can be no question of enlarging

the applicant on bail. 17. However, it needs to be considered that in the

aforesaid order dated 21/02/2023, it was indicated that it

would be open for the applicant to apply for bail afresh after

a reasonable period if the trial does not progress. It is more

than 11 months since the passing of the order dated

21/02/2023. I am informed that even charges have not

been framed. In paragraph 6 of the order it is recorded that

the charge-sheet runs into 4,900 pages and there are

additional 50,000 pages which are to be relied upon during

the trial as is the submission of learned Senior Advocate for

the applicant. The number of witnesses to be examined is 20/27 Urmila Ingale 905-ba-2362-23.doc

likely to be around 400. Learned APP submitted that it is

not as if all 400 witnesses will be examined. The number of

witnesses may be much less. Looking at the matter from

any angle, it is obvious that the trial will take a long time to

conclude. One circumstance in favour of the applicant

therefore is that the trial is not likely to conclude any time

soon. The applicant is in pre-trial custody for more than 4

years and 3 months. 18. Now on the age and medical condition of the

applicant, it is submitted by learned Senior Advocate for the

applicant that the applicant is suffering from Slip Disc for

the last 20 years. It is submitted that the applicant's health

condition is deteriorating and he is facing severe pain and

discomfort in his basic and regular activities including

sitting, sleeping in certain position etc. The applicant is also

suffering from Cervical Spondylosis since June 2006. It is

submitted that from February 2017, the applicant is a heart

patient suffering from atrial flutter i.e. a type of heart

rhythm failure in which the heart does not pump enough

blood while it beats fast which may result in vital organs like

heart and brain to fail. According to learned Senior 21/27 Urmila Ingale 905-ba-2362-23.doc

Advocate, there are several ailments the applicant is

experiencing. It is submitted that the applicant suffered a

paralytic stroke in October 2023 on his right side due to

which he is facing pain and numbness on the right side of

his body. The applicant has been advised a CT Scan and

Brain MRI to know the gravity and seriousness of the stroke

but due to long queues, the applicant could not be taken for

MRI Scan since October 2023. Today, learned APP on

instructions submitted that the applicant has been given an

appointment for MRI Brain from Radiology Department of Sir

J.J. Group of Hospital, Mumbai on 10/02/2024. Learned APP

submitted that the applicant is being treated at the prison

hospital and as and when needed, the applicant is taken to

the Sir J.J. Hospital. From the reports which are placed on

record regarding the medical condition of the applicant, it is

also seen that the applicant is facing problem of swelling in

both legs below knee, back pain, joint pain. The applicant is

facing diminished vision and is hard of hearing. The

applicant had a hard fall in the washroom at Taloja Central

Prison which resulted in injury to his hip bone and a fracture

on his hand. The applicant till date has difficulty to sit and 22/27 Urmila Ingale 905-ba-2362-23.doc

walk with ease due to the fall. Looking at the age of the

applicant who is 73 years having spent 4 years and 3

months in custody, in the facts of the present case, I am of

the considered opinion that age and health condition of the

applicant is another circumstance I find favour with. 19. Learned Senior Advocate then submitted that for a

period of 1 week from 08/07/2023 to 15/07/2023, the

applicant was enlarged on temporary bail on the ground of

"Dastar Bandi" ceremony of his grandson. The applicant

had abided by the conditions and surrendered before the

Superintendent of Taloja Jail on 17/07/2023 at 11.00 a.m.

The applicant has not misused this liberty. The applicant

does not appear to be a flight risk. The applicant's passport

is already with the investigating agency. 20. The applicant was arrested on 05/10/2019 and is now

in custody for more than 4 years and 3 months. The trial is

likely to take a long time to conclude. The accusations

against the applicant undoubtedly are serious but in view of

the circumstances enumerated above which are peculiar to

the applicant's case, I am inclined to enlarge the applicant

on bail. Even after a period of 11 months of the rejection of 23/27 Urmila Ingale 905-ba-2362-23.doc

the earlier bail application, there has been no progress in

the trial. The charges are not yet framed. The applicant

cannot be indefinitely incarcerated as and by way of a pre- trial punishment. I am inclined to enlarge the applicant on

bail by imposing stringent conditions. 21. In support of the view I take, let me place reliance on

the decision in 2Manish Sisodia Vs. Central Bureau of

Investigation . Their Lordships in para 26 observed thus: 22. Learned Senior Advocate on instructions of the

applicant's son who is present in the Court voluntarily

makes a statement that the applicant shall not leave

Mumbai/Mumbai Suburban District without permission of the

trial Court. The statement is accepted as an undertaking to

this Court. Hence, the following order. connection with C.R. No.86 of 2019 registered with
 Banking II, E.O.W., Mumbai shall be released on bail
 on his furnishing P.R. Bond of Rs.1,00,000/- with one or
 more local sureties in the like amount. (c) The applicant shall attend the investigating
 officer of the concerned police station once in three
 months on first Monday of the concerned month
 between 11.00 a.m. and 1.00 p.m. commencing from
 March 2024 till the charges are framed. (d) The applicant shall not directly or indirectly make
 any inducement, threat or promise to any person
 acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade
 him from disclosing the facts to Court or any Police
 Officer. The applicant shall not tamper with evidence. (e) On being released on bail, the applicant shall
 furnish his contact number and residential address to
 the investigating officer and shall keep him updated, in
 case there is any change. (f) The applicant shall not leave Mumbai/Mumbai
 Suburban District without permission of the trial Court. (g) The applicant shall attend the trial regularly. The
 applicant shall co-operate with the trial Court and shall 26/27 Urmila Ingale 905-ba-2362-23.doc

 not seek unnecessary adjournments. (h) The applicant's passport to remain with the
 investigating agency. 23. The application is disposed of. (M. S. KARNIK, J.) 27/27 Signed by: Urmila P. Ingale
Designation: PS To Honourable Judge
Date: 03/02/2024 14:43:49