1. Defendant is in appeal aggrieved of judgment and decree passed

by Additional District Judge, Patiala dated 05.05.1994 whereby suit of the

plaintiff has been decreed reversing finding recorded in judgment and

decree passed by Sub-Judge Ist Class, Fatehgarh Sahib. For convenience,

parties hereinafter are referred to by their original position in the suit i.e.

the appellant as defendant and respondent as plaintiff. 2. Plaintiff filed suit seeking decree of declaration to the effect that

he is owner in possession of the suit land as described in the head note of

the plaint and that the judgment and decree dated 29.10.1979 passed by

Court of Sub-Judge, Ist Class, Bassi Pathana obtained by defendant against

him in suit No.309 of 03.10.1979 is null and void and is not binding on his

 1 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 21-09-2024 06:13:51 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:117311

RSA-2504-1994 (O&M)

rights. 3. Plaintiff claimed to be owner in possession of the suit land. It

was pleaded that husband of the defendant Darbara Singh used to appear

in offices on behalf of the plaintiff. About two and a half years back,

Darbara Singh told the plaintiff that he was required to appear before the

revenue authority to make statement to the effect that plaintiff himself was

in cultivating possession of his land. Darbara Singh misrepresented him

that it was necessary to make statement before the Officer in question lest

Government might allot his land to landless farmers. On the pretext of

giving that statement, the plaintiff was made to appear before the Court

resulting in consent decree. He was robbed of his land. Plaintiff further

pleaded that he is in possession of the land in dispute and came to know

that a decree has been passed against him only a day before filing of the

suit when the defendant along with Darbara Singh threatened to dispossess

him. 4. Suit was contested by the defendant. Defendant pleaded that she

was widow of Ranjit Singh son of the plaintiff. Ranjit Singh died about

nine and half years back. After his death, her father-in-law i.e. plaintiff

contracted her second marriage with Darbara Singh who is also related to

plaintiff being son of his brother-in-law. It was denied that the decree is

result of undue influence of Darbara Singh over plaintiff as alleged.

Defendant claimed that after death of his son Ranjit Singh, plaintiff

neglected to maintain defendant. A family dispute arose between the

parties. The same was settled with the intervention of the relatives in the

 2 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 21-09-2024 06:13:51 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:117311

RSA-2504-1994 (O&M)

month of July, 1979. As per the said family settlement, suit land fell to the

share of defendant in lieu of her maintenance. The same was transferred

by plaintiff in favour of defendant, making her absolute owner of the suit

land by way of decree sought to be challenged by present suit. 5. On the basis of the pleadings, Trial Court put the suit to trial on

following issues:- 6. Plaintiff appeared as PW-1 in support of his pleadings.

Defendant examined DW-1 Vidya Parkash, Reader posted in the Court

that passed the decree dated 29.10.1979 and counsel who represented

plaintiff Mohinder Singh in the earlier suit as DW-2. She herself appeared

as DW-4. 7. Trial Court answered issue No.1 against the plaintiff and in

favour of the defendant holding that from the testimony of DW-1 Vidya

Parkash-Reader of the Court, it is clear that the statement of the plaintiff

was recorded by the then Sub-Judge, Ist Class in his own hand. Mohinder

Singh was identified by his counsel who proved the same while appearing

as DW-2. Thus, there is no evidence to support coercion as claimed by the

 3 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 21-09-2024 06:13:51 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:117311

RSA-2504-1994 (O&M)

plaintiff while suffering impugned judgment and decree dated 29.10.1979.

Issue No.2 and 3 were decided in favour of the defendant and against the

plaintiff. Resultantly, the suit filed by the plaintiff was dismissed. 8. In appeal filed by the plaintiff, Lower Appellate Court reversed

the finding on issue No.1 to 3 holding that from the evidence adduced, it is

evident that there was no family settlement between the parties and the

judgment and decree dated 29.10.1979 was result of fraud and

misrepresentation. Reversing the findings of the Trial Court on issues

Nos. 1 to 3, Lower Appellate Court allowed the appeal filed by the

plaintiff. 9. Learned senior counsel appearing for the defendant-appellant

has assailed the judgment passed by Lower Appellate Court asserting that

the Lower Appellate Court wrongly went into the issue with respect to

existence of family settlement. He submits that the issue was whether

plaintiff suffered a valid decree in favour of defendant. Once it was

proved on record that plaintiff himself appeared before the Court in the

earlier lis and suffered a statement leading to passing of decree, there was

no occasion for the Lower Appellate Court to look beyond decree. The

plaintiff appeared before the Court. He suffered statement in favour of the

defendant, thus he by filing this suit cannot be allowed to claim that he

was under undue influence of Darbara Singh. Mr. Mahajan further asserts

that the falsity of the plaintiff-respondent is evident from the fact that he

concealed material fact regarding defendant being related to him. Thus,

whole of the claim filed by the plaintiff being based upon lies and being

 4 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 21-09-2024 06:13:51 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:117311

RSA-2504-1994 (O&M)

untruthful merits rejection. 10. Mr. Jain, learned senior counsel representing the respondent has

taken this Court to the testimony of Vidya Parkash DW-1 who at the

relevant point of time was posted as Reader in the Court of Sub-Judge

Ist Class, Fatehgarh Sahib and statement of Shri SMS Bajwa, Advocate-

DW2 who represented plaintiff in the earlier suit. He submits that from

the joint reading of their statements, it is evident that statement alleged to

have been made by the plaintiff in the earlier suit as a defendant leading to

passing of the decree in dispute was never even read to the plaintiff. He

further has drawn attention of this Court to the testimony of defendant-

Jaspal Kaur-DW4. He agrees that she admitted that there was no dispute

ever between the parties and thus there was no occasion for any settlement

as claimed. Darbara Singh being closely related to plaintiff was looking

after his affairs. Plaintiff, Mohinder Singh had full faith in Darbara Singh

after death of his son Ranjit Singh. Mohinder Singh who lost his young

son was in fragile state of mind. The respondent as well as Darbara Singh

knowing well his condition robbed him of all his land. Thus, it is evident

that the decree was result of fraud and undue influence exercised by

Darbara Singh as well as appellant-defendant on the plaintiff and the same

needs to be quashed. 11. I have heard counsel for the parties and have carefully gone

through the records of the case. 12. On being specifically asked as to who is in the possession of the

suit land, counsel for the respondent has referred to the admission made by

 5 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 21-09-2024 06:13:51 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:117311

RSA-2504-1994 (O&M)

defendant in her testimony admitting plaintiff to be in possession of the

suit land. Mr. Mahajan is not in a position to dispute the said fact. 13. Present suit has been filed challenging the decree dated

29.10.1979 by Mohinder Singh claiming that the same was result of fraud.

Jaspal Kaur claims that the decree was suffered by Mohinder Singh out of

his own free will and is a valid decree. 14. The issue that falls for consideration before this Court is: 15. Reverting to the suit of 1979, this Court finds that in the memo

of parties of the plaint, Jaspal Kaur has been referred to as the wife of

Darbara Singh. Meaning thereby, on the said date, she had already re-

married and ceased to be daughter-in-law of Mohinder Singh. She claims

in the plaint that there is a dispute in the family qua her right of

maintenance, which stands settled by way of family settlement whereby

Mohinder Singh agreed to transfer whole of his land in her favour.

Written statement was filed on behalf of Mohinder Singh admitting all the

pleadings raised in the plaint. In written statement, it was prayed that the

suit be decreed. Statement of Mohinder Singh was recorded on

23.10.1979, wherein Mohinder Singh admitted factum of family settlement

and that it is his daughter-in-law Jaspal Kaur who is in possession of the

land as owner of the same. 16. On the basis of the aforesaid statement made by Mohinder

Singh, suit was decreed on 29.10.1979. 6 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 21-09-2024 06:13:51 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:117311

RSA-2504-1994 (O&M) 17. In the present suit, Mohinder Singh has pleaded that the

impugned decree is a result of fraud and undue influence. The same has

been detailed in plaint. The precise pleadings in the plaint read as under:- 18. Jaspal Kaur in her written statement denied the afore-mentioned

averments and responded as under:- After the death of said Ranjit Singh plaintiff neglected
 to maintain the defendant, so a family dispute took
 place between the parties which resulted into a family
 settlement with the interventions of the relations in the
 Month of July 1979. In the above said family
 settlement suit land fell into the share of the defendant
 in lieu of her maintenance and the same was transferred
 in favour of the defendant by the plaintiff and as such
 the defendant was made and declared to be absolute
 owner of the suit land by the plaintiff and the defendant
 was put into possession of the suit land as its absolute
 owner and a decree to that effect has been passed by
 Sub Judge Ist Class, Bassi on 29-10-1979 in suit
 No.309 dated, 3-10-1979. The plaintiff himself through
 his counsel appeared in the court of Sh, Chanan Singh
 then Sub Judge IInd Class, Bassi Pathana and filed
 written statement admitting the claim of the defendant
 to be correct and the learned Sub Judge recorded the

 9 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 21-09-2024 06:13:51 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:117311

RSA-2504-1994 (O&M)

 statement of the plaintiff on oath to that effect which
 was thumb marked by the plaintiff and was also signed
 by his counsel and the said decree had settled rights of
 parties with respect to the suit land and the plaintiff and
 the Hon'ble Court can not go behind earlier decree. The
 defendant being a daughter-in-law of plaintiff
 constitute a Joint Hindu family with him. In the above said suit the plaintiff came on his own
 in the court compound, engaged his counsel and the
 plaintiff filed the written statement through his counsel
 and made his statement on oath in the Court of Ld. Sub
 Judge IInd Class, Bassi. The story of the plaintiff as alleged in paras 3 to 5
 of the plaint is false, concocted and made up story and
 there is an intelligent brain behind the story." 19. Darbara Singh referred to in the pleadings is none-else, but

husband of defendant Jaspal Kaur. Despite there being specific allegation

against him, he opted not to appear in the witness box to rebut the same.

Undue influence by Darbara Singh has been pleaded by plaintiff. The

expression 'undue influence' has been defined under Section 16 of the

Indian Contract Act which reads as under:- Nothing in the sub-section shall affect the provisions of section 111 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of
 1872)." 20. In Ladli Prasad Jaiswal v. The Karnal Distillery Co. Ltd.,

Karnal & Ors , reported as AIR 1963 Supreme Court 1279, Apex Court

explaining 'undue influence' held as under:- 21. The same was further elaborated by Supreme Court in the case

of Afsar Shaikh & Anr. v. Soleman Bibi & Ors. , reported as AIR 1976

Supreme Court 163, wherein it was held that: Sarju Prasad, (AIR 1924 Privy Council 60)

 12 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 21-09-2024 06:13:51 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:117311

RSA-2504-1994 (O&M)

 expounded three stages for consideration of a case of
 undue influence. It was pointed out that the first thing
 to be considered is, whether the plaintiff or the party
 seeking relief on the ground of undue influence has
 proved that the relations between the parties to each
 other are such that one is in a position to dominate the
 will of the other. Upto this point, 'influence' alone has
 been made out. Once that position is substantiated, the
 second stage has been reached - namely, the issue
 whether the transaction has been induced by undue
 influence. That is to say, it is not sufficient for the
 person seeking the relief to show that the relations of
 the parties have been such that the one naturally relied
 upon the other for advice, and the other was in a
 position to dominate the will of the first in giving it.
 Upon a determination of the issue at the second stage, a
 third point emerges, which is of the onus probandi. If
 the transaction appears to be unconscionable, then the
 burden of proving that it was not induced by undue
 influence is to lie upon the person who was in a
 position to dominate the will of the other. Error is
 almost sure to arise if the order of these propositions be
 changed. The unconscionableness of the bargain is not
 the first thing to be considered. The first thing to be
 considered is the relation of the parties. Were they such
 as to put one in a position to dominate the will of the
 other." 22. Does present case satiate the aforesaid parameters laid down in binding precedents. After the fraud and undue influence was pleaded by

plaintiff in the plaint, he reiterated the same in his testimony. In cross-

examination of Mohinder Singh not even a suggestion was put to him that

 13 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 21-09-2024 06:13:51 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:117311

RSA-2504-1994 (O&M)

he was not taken by Darbara Singh to the Court misrepresenting that he

needs to appear before the revenue authority to save his land. 23. So far as influence of Darbara Singh on Mohinder Singh is

concerned, following admission made by appellant-Jaspal Kaur who

appeared as DW-4 can be safely relied:- 24. Thus Darbara Singh admittedly had influence over Mohinder

Singh at the relevant time. The fact that he married his widowed daugther-

in-law to Darbara Singh also leads to the same inference. Keeping in view

the aforesaid evidence that has come on record, this Court finds that the

Lower Appellate Court rightly appreciated the evidence to come to the

conclusion that Darbara Singh exercised influence over Mohinder Singh. 14 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 21-09-2024 06:13:51 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:117311

RSA-2504-1994 (O&M) 25. Now coming on to statement made by Mohinder Singh, Vidya

Parkash Reader at the relevant point of time in the Court of Sub-Judge, 1st

Class, Fatehgarh Sahib who appeared as DW-1. He in his testimony

claimed that statement was recorded by Presiding Officer in his own hand.

However, he feigned ignorance whether statement of Mohinder Singh was

recorded by the Presiding Officer in his presence or not. Further he also

expressed his ignorance about the fact of the statement having been read

over to Mohinder Singh. Mr. SMS Bajwa, Advocate who represented

Mohinder Singh in the suit of 1979 while appearing as DW-2 in the

present suit claimed that the statement of the defendant was recorded by

the Reader i.e. Vidya Parkash with his hand. He further admitted that the

statement was never read out to Mohinder Singh in his presence. It creates

doubt whether statement of Mohinder Singh was indeed read out to him or

not. Apart from that it creates doubt over finding recorded by Trial Court

that Mohinder Singh was identified by his counsel at the time of making

statement in initial suit. 26. Coming to the validity of claim of defendant regarding family

settlement on the basis of which earlier suit was decreed, while culling out

the principles regarding family settlement, Supreme Court in the case of Kale and others v. Deputy Director of Consolidation and others , reported

as AIR 1976 Supreme Court 807, observed as under:- (2) The said settlement must be voluntary and should
 not be induced by fraud, coercion or undue influence: (6) Even if bona fide disputes, present or possible,
 which may not involve legal claims are settled by a
 bona fide family arrangement which is fair and
 equitable the family arrangement is final and binding
 on the parties to the settlement." 27. In the present case, Jaspal Kaur while appearing as DW-4

admitted that there was no dispute between her and Mohinder Singh with

respect to the property. Once she was re-married to Darbara Singh, the

relationship came to an end. Where was the dispute settled by way of

family settlement. In fact it neither existed nor was anticipated. 28. Thus, family statement propounded by Jaspal Kaur in the initial

suit cannot be said to be bonafide. In the initial suit, Jaspal Kaur has been

mentioned as wife of Darbara Singh. Meaning thereby, on the date suit

was filed, she had already re-married. Thus, there was no reason for

Mohinder Singh to part away his entire property admitting her right of

maintenance when indeed he had no duty to maintain her. It is extremely

difficult to visualize such family settlement where Mohinder Singh would

give everything to Jaspal Kaur in lieu of nothing and without there being

any obligation. Supreme Court in the case of Santosh v. Jagat Ram &

Anr. reported as (2010) 3 SCC 251 while dealing with somewhat similar

situation observed as under:- 29. Taking note of the abuse of process by the parties, in obtaining

consent decrees by fraud, Supreme Court in the case of Smt. Badami

(Deceased) By her L.R. v. Bhali reported as (2012) 11 SCC 574, hold

that:- 21. In the said case it was clearly stated that the courts
 of law are meant for imparting justice between the
 parties and one who comes to the court, must come
 with clean hands. A person whose case is based on
 falsehood has no right to approach the Court. A litigant
 who approaches the court, is bound to produce all the
 documents executed by him which are relevant to the
 litigation. If a vital document is withheld in order to
 gain advantage on the other side he would be guilty of
 playing fraud on court as well as on the opposite party. 22. In Smt. Shrist Dhawan v. M/s. Shaw Brothers,
 1992(1) RCR (Rent) 442 it has been opined that fraud
 and collusion vitiate even the most solemn proceedings
 in any civilised system of jurisprudence. It has been
 defined as an act of trickery or deceit. The aforesaid
 principle has been reiterated in Roshan Deen v. Preeti
 Lal , 2002( 2) S.C.T. 106, Ram Preeti Yadav v. U.P.
 Board of High School and Intermediate Education and other, 2003(4) S.C.T. 318 : 2003( 8) SCC 319 and
 Ram Chandra Singh v. Savitri Devi and others ,
 2003(8) SCC 319. 23. In State of Andra Pradesh and another v. T.
 Suryachandra Rao , AIR 2005 Supreme Court 3110
 after referring to the earlier decision this court observed
 as follows:- 24. Yet in another decision Hamza Haji v. State of
 Kerala & Anr. , AIR 2006 Supreme Court 3028 it has
 been held that no court will allow itself to be used as an
 instrument of fraud and no court, by way of rule of
 evidence and procedure, can allow its eyes to be closed
 to the fact it is being used as an instrument of fraud.
 The basic principle is that a party who secures the
 judgment by taking recourse to fraud should not be
 enabled to enjoy the fruits thereof." 30. In view of the aforesaid facts, this Court finds that the fraud

committed on Mohinder Singh is evident from the record as discussed in

preceding paras. Whole of the allegations of fraud is against Darbara

Singh husband of the defendant. He could not gather courage to enter in

the witness box. All these facts cumulatively prove the case of the

plaintiff in the present case. Thus, no fault can be found with the findings

recorded by Lower Appellate Court. 31. Finding no merit in the present appeal, the same is ordered to be

dismissed. 32. Since the main case has been decided, pending miscellaneous

application, if any, shall also stands disposed off.