Argued by: None for the appellant. Sh. Nitin Thatai, Advocate
for the respondents. PER JUSTICE SHAM SUNDER (RETD.), PRESIDENT 

 

 This appeal is directed against
the order dated 11.01.2013, rendered by the District Consumer Disputes
Redressal Forum-I, U.T., Chandigarh (hereinafter to be called as the District
Forum only) vide which, it dismissed the complaint, filed by the complainant
(now appellant). 2.     
 The facts, in
brief, are that the complainant is a matriculate, working as Foreman. According
to the complainant, he was persuaded by the assurance of the agent of the
Opposite Parties, and on the basis of such assurance, he purchased BSLI Vision
Plan Policy, with a single premium, for which he paid a sum of Rs.25,000/-, as
premium. On receipt of SMS/Call from the Opposite Parties, for payment of the
second installment of premium of the Insurance Policy, he got checked the Policy
document, from his Superior Officer, as the same was in English, which he could
not understand, upon which, it transpired that the said Policy issued by the
Opposite Parties, was for a period of 20 years w.e.f. 21.05.2011, having
maturity date as 21.05.2062, and the premium was to be paid annually. It was
further stated that the complainant was cheated and defrauded by the agent of
the Opposite Parties, by selling such Policy, for which he never asked. It was
further stated that there was no concluded contract between the Parties, and,
as such, the terms and conditions of the Insurance Policy, in question, were not
binding upon the complainant. It was further stated that the complainant
requested the Opposite Parties, many a time, to refund the premium amount, paid by him, but all in vain.
A legal notice was also served upon the Opposite Parties, to redress the
grievance of the complainant, but to no avail. It was further stated that the
aforesaid acts of the Opposite Parties, amounted to deficiency, in rendering
service, as also indulgence into unfair trade practice. When the grievance of
the complainant, was not redressed, left with no alternative, a complaint under Section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (hereinafter to be called as
the Act only), was filed, directing the Opposite Parties, to refund the amount of Rs.25,000/- paid by him,
as premium, alongwith interest @18% P.A.; pay compensation, in the sum of
Rs.25,000/-, for mental agony and physical harassment; and cost of litigation,
to the tune of Rs.22,000/- 3.                   
The Opposite Parties, in their joint written version,
admitted the issuance of the Insurance Policy and payment of one premium in the
sum of Rs.25,000/-, by the complainant. It was denied that the Policy, which
was purchased by the complainant, was a single premium Policy. It was stated
that the complainant was very well aware of all the terms and conditions of the
Insurance Policy, before applying and opting for the same. It was further stated
that when the complainant received the Policy document, and found that the
premium payment plan, was annual and the same was not acceptable to him, it was
required of him, to immediately exercise the option of refund, within 15 days
(free-look- period) after getting the Policy cancelled, but he did not do so. It
was further stated that since the complainant did not pay the further premiums,
after the payment of first premium, the Policy lapsed and he was not entitled
to any refund. It was further stated that neither there was any deficiency, in
rendering service, on the part of the Opposite Parties, nor they indulged into
unfair trade practice. The remaining averments, were denied, being wrong. 4.     
 The Parties
led evidence, in support of their case. 5.     
 After hearing
the Counsel for the Parties, and, on going through the evidence, and record of
the case, the District Forum, dismissed the complaint, as stated above. 6.     
 Feeling
aggrieved, the instant appeal, has been filed by the appellant/complainant. 7.     
 Initially, on
01.03.2013, the Counsel for the appellant put in appearance, in the appeal. Thereafter,
none put in appearance, on behalf of the appellant, whereas, the Counsel for the
respondents, put in appearance. In these
circumstances, on 03.04.2013, when the appeal was fixed for arguments, this
Commission was of the considered opinion, that the same should be decided on
merits, in the absence of the appellant, as envisaged by the Provisions of Rule
8(6) of the Chandigarh Consumer Protection Rules, 1987. 8.     
 We have heard
the Counsel for the respondents, and, have gone through the evidence, and
record of the case, carefully. 9.     
 The appellant,
in the memorandum of appeal, stated that the agent of the respondents/Opposite Parties,
told him that the Policy purchased by him, named as BSLI Vision Plan, was a
single premium Policy, for which he was required to pay a sum of Rs.25,000/-,
once. It was further stated, in the memorandum of appeal that, as such, the
complainant paid a sum of Rs.25,000/-, as premium, towards the Policy, in
question. It was further stated that the agent of the Opposite Parties, cheated
the complainant and played a fraud upon him, which fact came to his knowledge,
when he received SMS/call, from the Opposite Parties, for payment of the second
premium, and got checked the Policy document, from his Superior Officer. It was
further stated that, under these circumstances, the complainant was entitled to
the refund of amount of premium, alongwith compensation. It was further stated,
that the order of the District Forum, in dismissing the complaint, being
illegal, is liable to be set aside. 10.  
 On the other
hand, the Counsel for the respondents/Opposite Parties, submitted that the
proposal form Annexure R-2, was duly filled in, and signed by the complainant,
after understanding the terms and conditions thereof. He further submitted that even the
complainant, in his complaint, admitted that he received the Policy document,
in question, and kept the same, in safe custody, without opening and going
through the same. He further submitted that, from the Policy, it was evident,
that the term thereof was 20 years, commencing from 21.05.2011; the date of
maturity was 21.05.2062; and the premium, in the sum of Rs.25,000/- was to be
paid for 20 years, annually. He further submitted that, in case, the
complainant was not satisfied with the terms and conditions of the Insurance
Policy, when he received the same, he could exercise the option of cancelling
the same, within 15 days (free-look-period), from the date of receipt of the same,
but he failed to do so. He further submitted that, as such, the order of the
District Forum, being legal and valid, is liable to be upheld. 11.  
 The Insurance Policy, in question, is a non-participating
traditional plan, as is evident, from page 72 of the District Forum file. It is
evident from the Policy details at page 12/26 of the District Forum file,
produced by the complainant himself, as also Annexure R-2, copy of the proposal
form, that the premium payment mode is mentioned therein as annual. The payment
term mentioned therein is 20 years. In paragraph number 4 of the complaint, the
complainant himself admitted that he received the Policy document, in question,
and kept the same, in safe custody. Since, the complainant himself was a signatory
to the proposal form, copy whereof is Annexure R-2, wherein, the term of
Policy, term of payment of premium, the term of premium paid mode, and the maturity date of Policy were written,
it did not lie, in his mouth, that he was not aware of the contents of the
same. In case, he was having any grievance, against the terms and conditions of
the Insurance Policy, or the same were not acceptable to him, it was required
of him, to exercise his option, within 15 days, from the date of receipt of the
same, requesting the Opposite Parties for cancellation thereof, but he did not
do so. Admittedly, the complainant did not pay any premium, after the payment
of first annual premium. The Policy, thus, lapsed. The complainant was, thus,
not entitled to the refund of the premium amount, with compensation, as there
was no deficiency, in rendering service, on the part of the Opposite Parties.
The District Forum was also right, in holding so. The findings of the District
Forum, in this regard, being correct are affirmed. 12.  
 No other
point, was urged, by the appellant, in the memorandum of appeal and the Counsel
for the respondents. 13.  
 In view of
the above discussion, it is held that the order passed by the District Forum,
being based on the correct appreciation of evidence, and law, on the point,
does not suffer from any illegality or perversity, warranting the interference
of this Commission. 14.  
 For the
reasons recorded above, the appeal, being devoid of merit, must fail, and the
same is dismissed, with no order as to costs. The order of the District Forum
is upheld. 15.  
 Certified copies of this order, be sent to the parties,
free of charge. 16.  
 The file be
consigned to Record Room, after completion. Pronounced. 05.04.2013 

 

Sd/- [JUSTICE SHAM SUNDER (RETD.)] 

 

PRESIDENT 

 

  

 

Sd/- [NEENA SANDHU] 

 

MEMBER 

 

  

 

  

 

Rg