(Passed on the 1st day of November, 2013)

 The applicants have challenged the order dated

12.6.2013 passed by the learned 16th Additional Sessions

Judge, Bhopal in S.T.No.575/2012, whereby an application

under section 227 of the Cr.P.C. filed by the applicants was

dismissed. 2. The prosecution's case, in short, is that, some of

the complainants have lodged an FIR to IG, Bhopal Range,

Bhopal that the applicants had committed cheating with

them. The applicants with help of one Mahaveer Jain got

their website uploaded with the scheme that if a consumer

deposits a sum of Rs.7,500/- as a charge of membership fee - 2 - M.Cr.C.No.7894 of 2013 then, through the business website of the applicants, he

would get a sum of Rs.1,000/- per month for 11 months.

However, 10% for banking and service charge shall be

deducted from the amount given to the consumers. The

complainants had deposited a huge amount with the

applicants. The complainants intimated that a sum of Rs.45

Lacs was deposited by them by contacting the various

consumers and creating their different IDs on the website

but, nothing was received in by any of the consumers as

promised by the applicants. Initially some SMSs were sent

to the consumers that the amount is deposited in a

particular bank but, no amount was found deposited in

accordance with that SMS. In the month of June, 2011, the

applicants shifted their branch office to another place and

thereafter, no contact took place between the applicants and

the consumers. Therefore, a case of fraud, cheating, forgery

and various offences of Information Technology Act, 2000 (In

short " IT Act ") was registered by the State Cyber Police,

Bhopal. After due investigation, the charge-sheet was filed

before the concerned Magistrate, who committed the case to

the Courts of Sessions and ultimately it was transferred to

the learned 16th Additional Sessions Judge, Bhopal. 3. The applicants have moved an application under

section 227 of the Cr.P.C. with the request that they may be - 3 - M.Cr.C.No.7894 of 2013 discharged from the charges appended against them in the

charge-sheet. 4. The learned Additional Sessions Judge after

considering the submissions made by the applicants and

prosecution, passed a detailed order whereby the application

under section 227 of the Cr.P.C. filed by the applicants was

dismissed. 5. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties at

length. 6. The learned counsel for the applicants has raised

three main objections in the case. Firstly, it was submitted

that according to section 46 of the IT Act, the matter was to

be adjudicated according to the provisions of Chapter IX of IT

Act and by bypassing the adjudicating officer, no such

complaint could be filed before the Magisterial Court. The

learned counsel for the applicants has submitted in detail

through the reading of various provisions of Chapter IX of

the IT Act and rules made under the Act in the year 2003.

He explained about the scope and manner of holding the

enquiry and the entire procedure by which the matter could

be adjudicated. In this regard, the attention of this Court is

invited to the judgment passed by Hon'ble the Apex Court in

case of "The Rajashthan State Industrial Development

and Investment Corporation Vs. Subhash Sindhi Co- - 4 - M.Cr.C.No.7894 of 2013 operative Housing Society Jaipur and Ors.", [AIR 2013

SC 1226]. It is further submitted that the jurisdiction of

civil Court is barred according to the provisions of section 61 of the IT Act and therefore, such provisions should be

followed strictly. The learned counsel for the applicants has

placed his reliance upon the order passed by the Division

Bench of this Court in case of " Ravindra Nath Tripathi Vs.

Union of India and others ", [(2013) 2 M.P.L.J. 212].

Secondly, it was submitted by the learned counsel for the

applicants that it is alleged in the FIR that the applicants on

behalf of a company made the deals with the consumers and

therefore, prosecution could not be initiated without making

that company to be a party in the case. In this regard, the

learned counsel for the applicants has placed his reliance

upon the judgment passed by Hon'ble the Apex Court in case

of "Aneeta Hada Vs. M/s Godfather Travels and Tours

Pvt. Ltd.", [AIR 2012 SC 2795]. Thirdly, it was submitted

that the complainants made a direct complaint to IG Police,

which is not according to the procedure of the Cr.P.C . The

applicants could not be connected with the crime in the

present matter and therefore, it is submitted that the

impugned order may be set aside and the applicants may be

discharged from each and every offence shown in the charge-

sheet. - 5 - M.Cr.C.No.7894 of 2013 7. The learned G.A. for the State has submitted that

the applicants uploaded a website with help of Mahaveer

Jain and not only committed various offences under the IT

Act but, also committed an offence of cheating and forgery as

mentioned in sections 420 and 468 of IPC. Therefore, they

could not be discharged. He opposed the objections taken by

the learned counsel for the applicants and prayed that the

order passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge may

be confirmed. 8. After considering the submissions made by the

learned counsel for the parties and looking at the various

questions and disputes, it would be proper that each

question be considered separately. The first question raised

by the learned counsel for the applicants is that the

prosecution was lodged by bypassing the adjudicating

officer. If the provisions of section 61 of the IT Act are

perused then, the jurisdiction of civil Court was barred.

Hence, various provisions have been made to resolve the civil

dispute between the parties under the IT Act and therefore,

according to the provisions of section 46 of the IT Act, power

to adjudicate was prescribed and the procedure was also

given in the rules accordingly. If the provisions of section 46

(1) of the IT Act are perused, which are reproduced as

under:- [(1A) The adjudicating officer appointed under sub-
 section (1) shall exercise jurisdiction to adjudicate
 matters in which the claim for injury or damager
 does not exceed rupees five crore: 9. In the present case, charge-sheet is also filed for

offence under section 468 of IPC and according to the M.P.

amendment in the Cr.P.C ., the offence under section 468 of

IPC is triable by the Court of Sessions. Otherwise, if a case

would have been triable by the Court of JMFC, still the

criminal proceeding could be initiated without following the

provisions of Chapter IX of the IT Act . There is no bar on

criminal proceedings directed by the party itself or by some

investigating officer. According to the provisions of section

78 of the IT Act, it is mentioned that if investigation is done

then, it should be done by a police officer not below the rank

of Inspector and therefore, if investigation is initiated by the

police then, after due investigation, a charge-sheet is

required to be filed before the Court which can take

cognizance in the case. Under such circumstances, filing of

the charge-sheet in the present case has no illegality as

shown by the learned counsel for the applicants. The

judgment passed by Hon'ble the Apex Court in case of - 8 - M.Cr.C.No.7894 of 2013 R.S.I.D.I. Corporation (supra) is relied to the adjudication of

the matter and therefore, the law laid in that case is not at

all applicable in the present case. The learned counsel for

the applicants has also placed his reliance upon the order

passed by the Division Bench of this Court in case of Ravindranath Tripathi (supra). If law laid in the case is

directly applied then, certainly the jurisdiction of the

criminal Court is not excluded and when investigation and

prosecution is provided in the Chapter XI of the IT Act then,

it cannot be said that the jurisdiction of the criminal Court

was excluded. 10. The second contention raised by the learned

counsel for the applicants is that the company is the

necessary party in the present case. In this regard, the

explanation appended in the provisions of section 85 of the

IT Act may be read, which is as under:- By which it would be clear that a company includes any

body, corporate or a firm or other association of individuals.

For this purpose, the applicants were required to produce - 9 - M.Cr.C.No.7894 of 2013 the Certificate of Registration of the company or firm before

the trial Court. The learned Additional Sessions Judge has

rightly held that no such certificate is produced by the

applicants and therefore, prima facie, it shall be presumed

that the applicants worked as an association of individuals

with a particular name but, it was not a registered company.

The law laid by Hon'ble the Apex Court in case of Aneeta

Hada (supra) may be made applicable, if it is proved that the

applicants were working for a company duly constituted

under the Company Act . If no company or the partnership

firm was registered then, certainly, it would be apparent that

the applicants were not working for any company but, they

were working as "Association of Individuals". Since an

Association of Individuals is not a jurist person therefore, it

could not be added as an accused in the case. The learned

Additional Sessions Judge has rightly rejected the contention

raised by the applicants that the company should be added

as an accused in the case. 11. In this regard, the judgment passed by Hon'ble the

Apex Court in case of Aneeta Hada (supra) makes it clear

that some portion of the judgment passed by Hon'ble the

Apex Court in case of "Shivratan Agrawal and another

Vs. State of M.P.", [AIR 1984 SC 1824] was overruled but,

law laid in Shivratan Agrawal's case (supra) was followed - 10 - M.Cr.C.No.7894 of 2013 since the year 1984 that there is no need to make the

company as an accused and if it is decided in the year 2012

that the company is a necessary party then, an opportunity

may be given to the prosecution to make the company a

party if it is permitted by the limitation of the time to take

cognizance in the case. In the present case, offence under section 468 of IPC is also appended against the applicants

for which no limitation is prescribed to take cognizance and

therefore, if it is found that the applicants were working for

any company then, that company or firm may be added as

an accused at any stage. If prosecution applies for such an

addition and initiates a case and if the company is not added

as an accused then, the charge-sheet cannot be thrown in

the case. The company can be added as an accused in the

present case, if it is proved that the applicants were working

for a particular company, which is a jurist person. 12. Under such circumstances, where the applicants

could not prove that they were working for a company duly

registered under the Company Act , they cannot get any

advantage of the law laid in case of Aneeta Hada (supra)

passed by Hon'ble the Apex Court. 13. Thirdly, it is objected that the complainants made

a complaint directly to the IG, Police. I don't believe that

such objection can be raised according to the provisions of - 11 - M.Cr.C.No.7894 of 2013 the Cr.P.C . Ultimately, the case was registered by the CID

Branch of the Police at Bhopal, which is dealing with cyber

crime. Looking at the gravity of offence, where a huge

amount was alleged to be usurped by the applicants and

their associates and looking at the nature of the case, it was

not possible for an SHO of a particular Police station to

understand the case and therefore, if a complaint is made to

the higher officer of the police and on his direction, if the

case was registered then, certainly the FIR may be

considered as an FIR lastly given to the SHO of concerned

Police station and therefore, if a complaint is given to the

higher officers of the police and on their direction it is

registered then, it cannot be said that the complainants or

the higher officers of the police flouted the provisions of the Cr.P.C . or that there is any illegality committed in

registration of the crime. Under such circumstances, no

advantage is received by the applicants if case is registered

on the directions given by the IG, Police, Range Bhopal.

Under such circumstances, objections raised by the learned

counsel for the applicants are not sufficient to quash the

proceedings of the trial Court and to discharge the

applicants. 14. Before concluding the present order, it is to be

mentioned that the provisions of section 227 of the Cr.P.C. is - 12 - M.Cr.C.No.7894 of 2013 prescribed for the procedure of framing of the charges and if

it is found that no charge can be framed then, the learned

Additional Sessions Judge can discharge the accused for a

particular charge or from all the charges. Under such

circumstances, it is a due procedure which should be

adopted by the learned Additional Sessions Judge in the

sessions trial. No separate application under section 227 of

the Cr.P.C. should be entertained at a preliminary stage. If

the learned Additional Sessions Judge finds while

considering the application under section 227 of the Cr.P.C.

that the application is not acceptable then, can he discharge

the applicants for a particular charge shown in the charge-

sheet? Certainly not; because no Court below the High

Court has inherent jurisdiction under section 482 of the

Cr.P.C. and no power of review is given to the Sessions

Court, therefore, if an application under section 227 of the

Cr.P.C. is filed then, it should be considered at the time

when charges are to be framed. Now if any decision in the

present case on the merits of the case is taken, it would be

binding to the trial Court and it would cause a prejudice to

the trial Court when the procedure of framing of the charges

would be initiated before the trial Court. Under such

circumstances, at present, where the trial court has still to

frame charges against the applicants on the basis of the - 13 - M.Cr.C.No.7894 of 2013 factual position then, it would be improper to give a view on

the merits of the case, whereas in a petition under section

482 of the Cr.P.C., if an application under section 227 of the

Cr.P.C. is moved then, the entire factual position is to be

considered by this Court as to whether the charge of any

offence is made out against the applicants or not. Hence, it

is necessary for the trial Court not to decide the application

under section 227 of the Cr.P.C. separately. It should be

decided when the proceedings of framing of charges are

made and memo of charges is prepared. 15. Since the charges are yet to be framed, therefore, I

decline to discuss the matter on merits, so that no prejudice

shall be caused to the trial Court while framing of the

charges. However, it is made clear that while framing of the

charges, objections raised by the applicants in the

application under section 227 of the Cr.P.C. shall not be

considered because they are decided by the present order

and the order is binding to the trial Court. 16. On the basis of the aforesaid discussion, it would

be apparent that the learned Additional Sessions Judge has

rightly rejected the application under section 227 of the

Cr.P.C. filed by the applicants. There is no basis by which

the petition under section 482 of the Cr.P.C. filed by the - 14 - M.Cr.C.No.7894 of 2013 applicants may be accepted. Consequently, it is hereby

dismissed. 17. A copy of the order be sent to the trial Court for

information and compliance. (N.K.GUPTA)
 JUDGE
 1/11/2013
Pushpendra