/420/504/506/34 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3(i)(x) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

 (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The FIR would reveal that the entire allegation of taking

 loan from the informant and commission of abuse and assault when

 the loan amount was demanded back is against co-accused Amresh
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.3195 of 2018 dt.04-12-2018 2/3 Rai. In the bottom of the FIR name of the appellants has been

 added as miscreants. It is evident that the statutory provisions of the SC/ST

 (POA) Act takes no care of, frivolous and fictitious cases lodged with

 malice to take revenge or to harass the adversary while making

 provisions that anticipatory bail applications would not be

 maintainable even under Section 438 Cr.P.C. There is no safeguard

 for the cases wherein no material comes against the accused to

 substantiate allegation of offence under the provisions of the SC/ST

 (POA) Act or where the FIR itself does not disclose the commission

 of offence under the SC/ST (POA) Act, rather discloses a bald

 allegation with some strong motive behind it. There is no provision

 to protect the fellow accused from going to jail where there is no

 evidence to substantiate the allegation. In such circumstances, the Court cannot be oblivious to

 protect such victim from being sent to jail, especially, when the

 Constitution confers power under Articles 226 and 227 of the

 Constitution of India to pass any order to protect the right and to

 secure the ends of justice or to prevent the abuse of process of the

 law. The protective provision is there under Section 482 Cr.P.C. also

 and the same powers can be exercised when exercising appellate

 jurisdiction. Considering the aforesaid facts, let the appellants,
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.3195 of 2018 dt.04-12-2018 3/3 above named, in the event of their arrest or surrender before the

 Court below within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt

 of the order, be released on bail on furnishing bail bonds of

 Rs.20,000/- (Twenty Thousand) each with two sureties of the like

 amount each to the satisfaction of the learned Court-below where

 the case is pending in connection with the aforesaid case, subject to

 the conditions as laid down under Section 438(2) of the Code of

 Criminal Procedure as well as condition that the appellants shall fully

 cooperate with the investigation/trial of the case, failing which the

 court below shall be at liberty to cancel the bail bond of the

 appellants. Accordingly, the impugned order is set aside and the

 appeal is allowed. (Birendra Kumar, J)
 Mkr./-