Heard learned counsel for the appellants and learned counsel for the

respondent. >. Learned counsel for the appellants has also filed written notes of

arguments and in reply a further written note of arguments has been filed by

learned counsel for the respondent. The respondent, as an account holder in
 

the State Bank of India (SBI), suffered a loss of Rs. 18,35 lakh through 20
internet transactions and the money was transferred to 20 accounts, all with
the SBI. The account holder/complainant filed Petition No. 1 of 2013 before
the leamed A.O./Secretary to Government, Information Technology,
Electronics and Communications Department, Government of Andhra
Pradesh. After hearing the parties in detail and taking into consideration the
defence of the Bank, which is the appellants herein, and all the relevant
documents, learned A.O. by the impugned order dated 12,3.2014 has
allowed claim of the complainant who is respondent herein and directed SBI
to pay the entire amount of Rs. 18.35 lakh with interest from the date of loss
ie. 13.5.2012 till the date of payment along with the costs of Rs. 39,750.00.
The rate of interest is 18% per annum. Admittedly, nothing has been paid

by SBI so far. 3. Learned counsel for the appellants has referred to paragraphs 60-70 of .
the impugned order and to relevant documents referred therein including the
terms and conditions on which the facility of Internet Banking is provided
by SBL He emphasizes that admittedly the complainant had answered a
phishing mail sent by fraudster and had disclosed its internet User ID and

Password. According to learned counsel, since Password was one of the
 

Lid

security measures and it was compromised by the complainant, the Bank
should not have been saddled with the liability to compensate the loss and in
any case not the entire loss because the complainant had contributed to the

loss by its own negligence. 4, In reply, learned counsel for the complainant/respondent has relied
upon provisions under sections 43 and 43A of Information Technology
Act,2000 to highlight that the Bank, as a body corporate having sensitive
personal data relating to its customers, had to implement and maintain
reasonable security practices and procedures. He referred to discussions
made in paragraph-72 of the impugned order in which the Guidelines of
Information Security, Electronic Banking, Technology Risk Management
and Cyber Frauds issued by the Reserve Bank of India(RBD on 29.4.2011
(Exhibit P-8) have heen discussed. The discussion highlights that the Bank
ig required to implement at least two factor authentications through User
ID/Password combination and second factor like a digital signature or
OTP/Dynamic Access Code through various modes like SMS over mobile
phone or hardware token. Even additional security measures such as alerts
through, telephone, SMS, e-mail etc. have heen advised for transactions for

above pre set values. A cooling period for beneficiary addition and SMS and
 

e-mail alerts when internet beneficiaries are added, has also been indicated
in the Guidelines. After discussing the features and facts of the case in the
background of provisions in the RBI Guidelines, from paragraphs-77 till 83
different features and issues have been discussed and decided, all the
findings being against SBI. In paragrapgh-84, it has been concluded that the
features like OTP/SMS/e-mail were not provided to the cornplainant. It has
further been discussed that as per Exhibit P-16, the complainant had
provided to the Bank all the necessary informations in the prescribed format

including its e-mail ID and telephone number. 5 The defence of SBI has been reiterated in this Tribunal that the
complainant had not opted for OTP/SMS alert by registering its mobile no.
has rightly not been accepted by the A.O. It was the statutory duty of SBI
to put in place all the reasonable and effective security measures. It could
not be left at the option of account holders and more so when the particulars
had already been sought as per format and furnished in 2010 when request

was made for Online Corporate Internet Banking. 6. Had the Bank shown that it had complied with the RBI Guidelines and

provided additional security measures and even then the money was
 

fraudulently withdrawn due to negligence of the complainant, question of
reconsidering the order of A.O. on the basis of contributory negligence could
have arisen. However, since the SBI has failed to discharge its statutory
burden of providing reasonable security measures, it has it has rightly been
directed to pay the entire loss suffered by the complainant. The findings of

the A.O. do not require any interference and they are accordingly confirmed. 7. The only issue which requires reconsideration is the issue of rate of
interest. Even in March 2014 when the impugned order was passed, 18%
per annum was clearly on the higher side. Money could have been borrowed
even at that time at a lesser rate of interest, say 12% per annum although the
rate of interest has subsequently come down further. Hence, at this juncture,
itis deemed just and proper to allow interest for the entire period as directed
by the A.O. but only @ 12% per annum. With this modification in the

impugned order of the learned A.O. the Appeal is disposed of. 8. The appellants must pay the amount awarded along with interest at the
rate indicated above within two months from today, failing which the rate of

interest shall revert back to 18% per annum as directed by the learned A.O.
 

9, The cost of the present proceeding before this Tribunal is estimated at
Rs.50,000.00 and the same shall also be payable to the respondent within the
time indicated above. If the payments are not made within two months, the
complainant/respondent shall approach the A.O. and seek execution of the
judgement and order passed in its favour. Such application, if filed, shall be

disposed of expeditiously and in accordance with law. 10. The appeal is disposed of in the aforesaid terms. 90.0 88 jee wee HE

(S.K. C Sinan) _

Chairperson

'SC/