JUDGMENT

2004(3) SCR 373

The Judgment of the Court was delivered by

SRIKRISHNA, J. This appeal is directed against the judgment of the Division
Bench of the Bombay High Court granting a decree for the relief of
possession of the suit property together with a direction for inquiry into
mesne profits, by reversing the judgment of the single Judge who had
dismissed the original suit. Facts

Two brothers, Shivchandrai and Ramvallabh, purchased a plot of land
measuring 1063 sq. metres at Malviya Road, Ville Parle, Bombay in the year
1928. Haribux was the third brother, whose son was Nand Kishore and who in
turn had a son by name Shashikant. The family tree of the contending parties is as under : On 3.8.1970, both Shivchandrai and Mahavirprasad sent a reminder to the BMC
to send a final statement of account to enable them to make the necessary
payment of taxes and requested that the property not be auctioned in the
meantime. On 4.8.1970, the auction sale, which was scheduled to be held,
was adjourned sine die on the ground that there was no bidder and a new
date of auction was fixed as 26.11.1970. On 19.10.1970, the BMC replied to letters dated 3.8.1970 of Shivchandrai
and Mahavirprasad reiterating the old dues under the warrant of attachment
as well as the new taxes due, without specifying any amount of costs or
giving the final statement of account as demanded by them in their letters.
By this letter, the BMC threatened to sell the property in exercise of its
power under section 206 of the BMC Act. On 26.11.1970, Shivchandrai and Mahavirprasad paid a lumpsum amount of Rs.
3500 towards the dues. Although the balance of taxes due under the earlier
warrant of attachment was only Rs. 1922.65 (Rs. 5996.29 - 4073.64), an
additional amount of Rs. 1577.35 was paid by them. Hence, the auction sale
fixed was cancelled. Shivchandrai died in Madras on 7.6.1971. On 9.6.1971 the BMC addressed a
letter in the sole name of Shivchandrai (who had already died on 7.6.71)
without addressing any letter to Mahavirprasad or any other person on his
behalf. In this letter the Corporation adjusted the amount of Rs. 7573.64
paid (Rs. 4073.64 + 3500) as against the amount of Rs.5996.29 demanded
under the warrant of attachment. For the first time, the Corporation
specified the costs at Rs.3299.40, an amount of Rs.1722.05 towards costs of
proceedings and further specified that an amount of fresh tax of Rs.3470.08
for the period 1.4.1969 to 31.3.1971 was due, though it did not form part
of the warrant of attachment. In this fashion, the Corporation, for the
first time, worked out the dues of Rs.12765.77 and demanded an amount of
Rs.5192 (Rs. 12765.77 -7573.64) as still due and payable. Since the notice
of the Municipal Corporation dated 9.6.1971 had been addressed in the name
of a dead person, it was returned unserved. On 8.9.1971, the concerned officer of the BMC sent a proposal for sanction
of auction sale of the suit property towards the demanded sum of Rs.5192.13
as total dues. This proposal was forwarded to the Municipal Commissioner,
though at this time no reserve bid was fixed. On 30.9.1971 and 2.10.1971
the concerned officials of the Municipal Corporation were directed by the
Assistant Assessor and Collector to give notice of the auction sale by
pasting Notices on the suit premises in the presence of two independent
witnesses, preferably tenants. The Municipal Corporation claims to have
pasted such notices without the presence of any independent witness as
directed. On 5.10.1971, Mahavirprasad learned about the auction sale and wrote to the
Municipal Corporation that as Shivchandrai had died on 7.6.1971, the demand
notice should be addressed to all the co-owners of the property and in the
meantime the auction sale should not be held. This letter was received by
the Superintendent 'K' Ward, S.D. Madiwala, and the Assessment Department
of the Municipal Corporation on 6.10.1971 and 7.10.1971 respectively. On 12.7.1972, Bajranglal, Mahavirprasad and others received a telegram from
Satyavati (the plaintiff) for immediate handing over of possession of the
suit property to her alleging that she had become sole owner of the
property at the auction sale held by the Municipal Corporation on
7.10.1971. On 15.7.1972, Mahavirprasad sent a legal notice to the Municipal
Corporation and to Satyavati denying that she had become sole owner of the
property in question. On 15.7.1972, Suit No. 118/73 was filed by Satyavati for delivery of the
possession of property. The parties to the suit were as under:- The present appeal is only at the instance of the sole-appellant
Bajranglal, who was Defendant No.8 in the original suit filed by the
Respondent No. 8 (original plaintiff). The decree made by the High Court
qua other respondents (original defendants) has attained finality since
defendants 1-4, 6 and 7 in that suit did not challenge the judgment dated
2/5.4.93 made by the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court and the
consequent decree. The original defendants 1, 2 and 7 did not participate
in the proceedings before the High Court and the suit was contested only by
defendant no.5 Shyamsunder and defendant no.8 Bajaranglal (the present
appellant). Respondents contend that inasmuch as the appeal filed by
Shyamsunder, original defendant no.5, being C.A. No.7490/93 was dismissed
by this Court on 15th January, 2001 for non prosecution, the judgment of
the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court operates as res-judicata. It is
urged that the judgment and decree has become final as against Bajaranglal
and all other defendants in the original suit. Even otherwise, it is urged
that the present appeal must be dismissed as otherwise it may give rise to
conflicting decrees. It is not possible to accept that the principle of res-judicata will apply
to bar the appeal. Section 11 of the CPC would bar the Court from trying
any suit or issue in which the matter "directly and substantially in issue" This Court reiterated its view in Karam Singh Sobti (supra) and held that
even if it be assumed that R was negligent, on that ground he could not be
deprived of his legal right to prosecute the appeal and to claim relief
under Order XLI Rule 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure , if the circumstances
of the case warrant it. The decree of the Trial Court proceeded on a ground
common to M and R. In the appeal filed by R, he was denying liability for
the claim of the plaintiffs in its entirety. Thus, it was held that this
was essentially a case in which the Court's jurisdiction under Order XLI,
Rule 4, Code of Civil Procedure could be exercised. This view was reiterated by this Court in Mahabir Prasad v. Jage Ram and
Ors. , [1971] 1 SCC 265. It was a case in which the plaintiff Mahabir
Prasad, his mother and his wife obtained a decree against the defendant
Jage Ram and two others for a certain amount. Their application for
execution was dismissed by executing court. Mahabir Prasad alone preferred
an appeal to the High Court and impleaded his mother Gunwanti Devi, and his
wife Saroj Devi as party-respondents. Saroj Devi died and the legal
representatives were not brought on record within the period of limitation
and her name was struck off from the array of respondents. The High Court
dismissed the appeal on the ground that it abated in its entirety. Mahabir
Prasad appealed to this Court. Allowing the appeal it was held by this
Court : (vide para 4)

" Order XLI Rule 4 Code of Civil Procedure , invests the Appellate Court with
power to reverse or vary the decree in favour of all the plaintiffs or
.defendants even though they had not joined in the appeal if the decree
proceeds upon a ground common to all the plaintiffs or defendants". This Court in Mahabir Prasad (supra) distinguished the judgment in
Rameshwar Prasad, [1964] 1 SCR 549 as a ease in which all the plaintiffs
whose suits had been dismissed had filed an appeal and thereafter one of
them being dead and his heirs were not brought on record. While in the case
before this Court, there was an order against all the decree holders but
all of them had not appealed. The previous judgment in Ratanlal Shah
(supra) was followed approvingly. Commenting on the judgment in Ratanlal
Shah (supra) in the light of Order XLI Rule 4 of the CPC , this Court
observed: (vide para 6)

"Competence of the Appellate Court to pass a decree appropriate to the
nature of the dispute in an appeal filed by one of several persons against
whom a decree is made on a ground which is common to him and others is not
lost merely because of the person who was jointly interested in the claim
has been made a party-respondent and on his death his heirs have not been
brought on the record. Power of the Appellate Court under Order XLI, Rule
4, to vary or modify the decree of a Subordinate Court arises when one of
the persons out of many against whom a decree or an order had been made on
a ground which was common to him and others has appealed. That power may be
exercised when other persons who were parties to the proceeding before the
Subordinate Court and against whom a decree proceeded on a ground which was
common to the appellant and to those other persons are either not impleaded
as parties to the appeal or are impleaded as respondents." The same principle was reiterated in Govindan v. Subramaniam , [2000] 9 SCC
510, where it was held that Order XLI Rule 4 of the CPC would apply in such
a case. In Harihar Prasad Singh and Ors. v. Balmiki Prasad Singh and Ors. , [1975] 1
SCC 212, a similar contention was urged. After analysing Ratanlal (supra),
Karam Singh (supra) and Mahabir Prasad (supra), and distinguishing the
judgments in State of Punjab v. Nathu Ram, [1962] 2 SCR 636, and Rameshwar
Prasad v. Shyam Biharilal, [1964] 3 SCR 549, it was held that normally
Order XLI Rule 41 would apply to a situation like the one before us. This principle has also been reiterated in the recent Judgment in Banarsi
and Ors. v. Ramphal, [2003] 9 SCC 606, which holds that Order XLI Rule 4
and Rule 33 are to be read together. This Court observed (vide para 15)

"Rule 4 seeks to achieve one of the several objects sought to be achieved
by Rule 33, that is, avoiding a situation of conflicting decrees coming
into existence in the same suit. The abovesaid provisions confer power of
the widest amplitude on the appellate court so as to do complete justice
between the parties and such power is unfettered by consideration of facts
like what is the subject-matter of the appeal, who has filed the appeal and
whether the appeal is being dismissed, allowed or disposed of by modifying
the judgment appealed against. While dismissing an appeal and though
confirming the impugned decree, the appellate court may still direct
passing of such decree or making of such order which ought to have been
passed or made by the court below in accordance with the findings of fact
and law arrived at by the court below and which it would have done had it
been conscious of the error committed by it and noticed by the appellate
court. While allowing the appeal or otherwise interfering with the decree
or order appealed against, the appellate court may pass or make such
further or other, decree or order, as the case would require being done,
consistently with the findings arrived at by the appellate court. The
object sought to be achieved by conferment of such power on the appellate
court is to avoid inconsistency, inequity, inequality in reliefs granted to
similarly placed parties and unworkable decree or order coming into
existence. The overriding consideration is achieving the ends of justice.
Wider the power, higher the need for caution and care while exercising the
power. Usually the power under Rule 33 is exercised when the portion of the
decree appealed against or the portion of the decree held liable to be set
aside or interfered by the appellate court is so inseparably connected with
the portion not appealed against or left untouched that for the reason of
the latter portion being left untouched either injustice would result or
inconsistent decrees would follow. The power is subject to at lest three
limitations: firstly, the power cannot be exercised to the prejudice or
disadvantage of a person not a party before the court; secondly, a claim
given up or lost cannot be revived; and thirdly, such part of the decree
which essentially ought to have been appealed against or objected to by a
party and which that party has permitted to achieve a finality cannot be
reversed to the advantage of such party. A case where there are two reliefs
prayed for and one is refused while the other one is granted and the former
is not inseparably connected with or necessarily depending on the other, in
an appeal against the latter, the former cannot be granted in favour of the
respondent by the appellate court exercising power under Rule 33 of Order 41." This judgment considers the observations made in Pannalal v. State of
Bombay, [1964] 1 SCR 980, Harihar Prasad Singh (supra) and Nirmala Bala
Ghose and Anr. v. Balai Chand Ghose and Ors., [1965] 3 SCR 550, and holds
that Order XLI Rule 4 of the CPC would take care of a situation as the one
before us. In Chandramohan Ramchandra Patil v. Bapu Koyappa Patil (dead) through LRS.
and Ors., [2003] 3 SCC 552, a suit for partition was filed in which the
right of partition was recognised and upheld by the Court. In the opinion
of the Court, the fact that one of the plaintiffs had appealed, and not
all, did not render the appellate court powerless for it could invoke the
provisions of Order XLI Rule 4 read with Order XLI Rule 33 of the CPC . It
was held that the object of Order XLI Rule 4 is to enable one of the
parties to a suit to obtain relief in appeal when the decree appealed from
proceeds on a ground common to him and others. The Court in such an appeal
may vary the decree in favour of all the parties who are in the same
interest as the appellant. The Court observed (vide paras 14, 15): In K. Muthuswami Gounder v. N. Palaniappa Gounder , [1998] 7 SCC 327,
dealing with the powers of the appellate court under Order XLI Rule 33 of
the CPC , this Court observed (vide para 12): In Pannalal v. State of Bombay and Ors. , [1964] 1 SCR 980, this Court said
(vide page 987): The respondents however, strongly rely on certain observations made in the
judgment of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Badri Narayan Singh v.
Kamdeo Prasad Singh and Anr. , [1962] 3 SCR 759, and contended that the
observations made in Narhari 's case (supra) had been distinguished by the
Constitution Bench. The case before the Constitution Bench was one where
the Election Tribunal, on the petition of the first respondent, had set
aside the election of the appellant on certain grounds. The Election
Tribunal, however, did not entertain the first respondent's prayer to
declare him as duly elected. Both the appellant and the first respondent
being aggrieved went up in appeal to the High Court. Appellant's Appeal No.
7 was against the order setting aside his election, while first
respondent's Appeal No. 8 was against not declaring him elected. Both were
disposed of by the common judgment by the High Court which dismissed Appeal
No.7 but allowed respondent's Appeal No.8 and declared him to be duly
elected. A preliminary objection was taken on behalf of the first
respondent that the appeal was incompetent as barred by the principle of
res judicata as the appellant did not appeal against the order of the High
Court in his own Appeal No.7, the dismissal of which by the High Court
confirmed the order of the Election Tribunal setting aside the election of
the appellant. Hence, it was contended that the appellant could not
question the correctness of the finding that he held an office of profit
which was the basis of the dismissal of Appeal No.7. The Constitution Bench
of this Court was of the view that two appeals arose out of one proceeding,
the subject matter of each appeal being different. While the subject matter
of Appeal No.7 related to his election being good or bad, the subject
matter of Appeal No.8 had no relation to the validity or otherwise of the
election of the appellant, but was related to the further action to be
taken in case the election of the appellant was bad on the ground that he
holds an office of profit. It was in this situation that the judgment in Narhari (supra) was distinguished by the Constitution Bench, which pointed
out that the observations in Narhari (supra) did not apply to cases which
are governed by the general principle of res judicata which rests on the
principle that a judgment is conclusive regarding the points decided
between the same parties and that the parties should not be vexed twice
over in the same case. In our view, the judgment of the Constitution Bench
has no application to the facts before us. The effort of the respondent to rely on Shivdhan Singh (supra) in support
of the objection is also in vain for the observations in Shivdhan Singh
have been considered and distinguished in Managing Director v. K.
Ramachandra Naidu and Anr. , [1994] 6 SCC 339. Reliance by the respondents on Nirmala Bala Ghose, [1965] 3 SCR 550 is also
of little use. A three Judge bench of this Court considered the
applicability and the ambit of Order XLI Rule 33, CPC in such a situation,
and observed: In our view, in Nirmala Bala Ghose (supra) this Court has not made any
observations contrary to what had been laid down earlier. We do not think that the judgment in Premier Tyres Limited v. Kerala Stale
Road Transport Corporation , [1993] Supp. 2 SCC 146, cited by the
Respondents has any relevance for it is entirely distinguishable on facts.
It was a case where two suits were tried together and decided by a common
judgment, each of them being partly decreed. One of the parties did not
appeal against dismissal of part of his claim, but appealed against the
part decree in the other suit. It was in these circumstances that it was
held that his appeal was barred by res-judicata. In State of Punjab v. Nathu Ram , [1962] 2 SCR 636, this Court considered a
situation of such conflicting decrees and made the following observations
(vide p. 639): The rationale behind the principle was explained by the Court thus (vide p. 641) : In our view, this is the litmus test to decide whether an appeal should be
dismissed for possible conflict of decrees or not. Applying this test, it
appears to us that the appeal before us cannot be dismissed. Shyamsunder is
the 5th respondent before us, who has been served, but has chosen to remain
absent. The fact that Shyamsunder's own appeal failed for non-compliance
with the office objections cannot have the consequence of defeating the
appeal of the present appellant Bajaranglal. Order XLI Rule 4 read with
Rule 33 invests this Court with sufficient power to entertain the appeal of
Bajranglal before us and to make any appropriate order thereupon consonant
with justice, equity and good conscience. In the result, we overrule the
preliminary objections and hold that the appeal is maintainable. Merits of the Appeal. The learned Single Judge raised the following issues and answered them as
under: Remarks

In the negative

In the negative

In the negative. Plaintiff has not proved her title," and the title relied
on is invalid in law, and, therefore, a nullity. 4 Whether the Plaintiff has not acquired title In the
affirmative to the suit property for the reasons alleged in their
respective written-statements ? 5 Whether each of the defendants is a tres- In the
negative

passer as alleged in part 4 of the plaint ? 6 Whether the Defendant is the tenant in respect In the
negative of the premises in his occupation as alleged in their respective
written-statements ? 7 Whether the said auction sale was subject to In the
negative the right of the defendants' tenancy and subject to the
defendants' right of possession was and occupation and enjoyment as alleged
in their respective written statements ? Whether the plaintiff is entitled to mesne profits In the negative as
alleged in para 6 of the plaint

Whether the Plaintiff is entitled to any relief In the negative and,
if so, what ? ___________________________________________________________________________
__________________

The Single Judge's finding is that the certificate of sale issued by the
BMC was invalid and the sale was liable to be declared null and void for
contravening the provisions of Section 206 of the BMC Act, 1888 and the
Regulations made thereunder. After examining the evidence before him, the
learned single Judge came to the conclusion that there was clear
contravention of the provisions of the BMC Act and the Regulations dealing
with the auction sale. He also came to the conclusion that the sale had
taken place without any reserved bid, that Janardhan Dhuri had never
disclosed that he was bidding as agent of R-8; the plaintiff never entered
the box, nor did Janardhan Dhuri, to prove that Janardhan Dhuri has bid as
her agent, consequently, R-8 being nowhere in the picture, the certificate
of sale could not have been issued in her name. The Division Bench came to the conclusion that the withdrawal of Suit No.
O. S. 218 / 73 and the rejection of the application moved by Bajranglal for
transposition as plaintiff, which was upheld by the Division Bench, and the
summary dismissal of the special leave petition there against, conclusively
precluded the contention urged by the appellant in this regard. The
Division Bench held, "the result of rejection of application for
transposition is that the cause of action against the corporation and the
auction purchaser came to an end" and based its finding upon the fact that,
on the date when Bajranglal made the application for transposition as
plaintiff (10.9.1985), Bajranglal had lost the right to file a suit for
avoiding the auction sale, as it was barred by time. This led the Division
Bench to hold, "the result of withdrawal of the suit and the rejection of
application for transposition is that the auction sale in favour of
plaintiff had become final and Bajaranglal cannot raise any objection in
the present suit and avoid auction sale." In our view, this reasoning of the Division Bench is erroneous. Although
the period of limitation prescribed in the Limitation Act, 1963 , precludes
a plaintiff bringing a suit which is barred by limitation, as far as any
defence is concerned, there is no such limitation. In reply to the
plaintiffs suit that she had derived title to the suit property by virtue
of the auction sale and the certificate of sale issued by the BMC, it was
perfectly open to the defendants, including Bajranglal, to contend to the
contrary. The burden of proving the facts alleged in the plaint was
squarely upon the plaintiff. After recording evidence on both sides, if the
evidence showed that the auction sale held by the BMC was contrary to the
provisions of the BMC Act and the Regulations made thereunder, the
defendants were entitled to urge upon the learned Single Judge to come to
the conclusion recorded by the learned Single Judge. The respondents, however, contend that the sale proceedings could be
challenged only by way of a substantive suit. Inasmuch as the suit had
become time barred on the date of the application for transposition, there
was no scope for the sale of Hari Niwas to the plaintiff being challenged
by a suit. They urged that the Division Bench is right in characterising
the challenge to the suit by Bajranglal as a 'backdoor method'. It appears to us that the contention of the respondent is misplaced. If the
title claimed by the plaintiff was a nullity and wholly void, there was no
need for any of the defendants including Bajranglal to challenge it by way
of a substantive suit. They could always set up nullity of title as a
defence in any proceeding taken against them based upon such title. If, in
fact, the sale was a nullity, it was non est in the eye of law and all that
defendant had to do was point this out. (See in this connection: Ajudh Raz
and Ors. v. Moti S/o Mussadi, [1991] 3 SCC 136 and the opinion of the Full
Bench of the Bombay High Court in Abdulla Mian v. Government of Bombay,
(1942) 44 Bom LR 577. In Vidyadhar v. Manikrao and Anr., [1999] 3 SCC 573, the plaintiff had
filed a suit on the basis of a sale deed executed by D-2 in his favour and
sought the relief of possession of the property from defendant no. 1 who
was an absolute stranger to the sale deed. The question which arose was
whether defendant no.l, who was in possession, could justify his possession
by urging the nullity of sale transaction between the plaintiff and
defendant no.2. In these circumstances, this Court held (vide para 21): Here, the plaintiffs suit is for ejection of the defendant and for
possession of the suit property. She must succeed or fail on the title that
she establishes. If she cannot succeed in proving her title, the suit must
fail notwithstanding that the defendant in possession may or may not have
title to the property. (See in this connection: Brahma Nand Puri v. Neki
Puri , [1965] 2 SCR 233 at p. 237). Appellant Bajranglal had sufficiently pleaded in his written statement the
defects in the title of the plaintiff and it was, therefore, open for the
learned Single Judge to go into this question and decide if the plaintiff
had good title or not. The Division Bench, therefore, erred in interfering
with the finding of the learned Single Judge on this ground. On the facts,
the learned Single Judge has elaborately discussed the evidence and come to
a finding with which it is difficult to disagree. We are unable to share
the view of the Division Bench that the defects in title pleaded and found
by the learned Single Judge were mere irregularities in conducting the sale
which could not have been challenged collaterally. In our view, the finding
of the learned Single Judge that the plaintiff's title was invalid and non
est for contravention of the provisions of Section 206 of the BMC Act and
the Regulations made thereunder, is fully justified and brooked no
interference in appeal. The Privy Council's observations in Nawab Umjad Ally Khan v. Mohumdee Begum
and Anr., 1868 Sutherland WR Vol. X 25, on which the respondents rely, have
to be understood in the context of the case before it. As a rule, it may be
that an Act of the State can be questioned in a Municipal Court by way of a
duly constituted suit. However, if another person claims a title from a so-
called Act of the State, we see no reason why the defendant cannot plead
the nullity of title. In our view, the principle in Vidyadhar's case
clearly applies to the case on hand. Failure to implead BMC

The respondent then raised a contention that the validity of the title
derived by the plaintiff Satyavati could not have been considered in the
suit without the Bombay Municipal Corporation being impleaded as a
necessary party. In our view, this is an argument of post hoc ergo proptor
hoc. If we accede to argument that the Municipal Corporation was a
necessary party, then by reason of Order I Rule 9 of CPC , the consequence
would be the dismissal of the plaintiff Satyavati's suit for non-joinder of
BMC, which according to her is a necessary party. In fact, the learned
single Judge was desirous of adjudicating the issues fully and completely,
and therefore, proposed to add the BMC as a party to the suit. The
plaintiff as a dominus litis vigorously opposed and successfully persuaded
the learned Single Judge not to add the Corporation as a necessary party.
It was in these circumstances that the suit proceeded without the
Corporation being made a party to the suit. For the plaintiff (R-8) to now
plead before us that the BMC was a necessary party, without whose presence
the adjudication of the issues could not have proceeded, appears to us to
be an argument of desperation. Vidyadhar's case (supra) is a complete
answer to this argument. In any event, the only interest that the
Corporation had in the matter was towards its tax arrears as it was not
interested in the title of the property being transferred to it. In the written statement filed by Bajranglal, he had relied upon and
reiterated all contentions which had been urged by Mahavirprasad in his
suit No.218/73. He had also reiterated and repeated all contentions urged
by Mahavirprasad both in his own suit no.218/73 and in his written
statement in Suit No. 118/73. We are satisfied that the defence raised by
Bajaranglal was quite comprehensive. He had challenged the plaintiff's
title on the basis of the alleged auction sale as a nullity on the grounds
of ultra virus, lack of jurisdiction, non-service of demand notice on all
heirs/co-owners, breach of mandatory provisions of law and also
perpetration of fraud the particulars of which were reiterated and adopted
from the suit of Mahavirprasad no.218/73, as well as Mahavirprasad's
written statement in Suit No.118/73. The reliance placed by the respondent on the judgment in Narhari Mohanty,
AIR (1963) Ors. 186; Chitti Perumal Pillai v. Devasahayam, (1956) TC 181
(FB) and Kishore Singh v. Tej, AIR (1967) MP 120 is misplaced. These were
all cases where a substantive suit was filed for setting aside a revenue
sale for realisation of Government's arrears. In these circumstances, the
view taken was that the Government ought to have been made a party along
with the auction purchaser. In Mohan Wahi v. Commissioner Income-tax, Varanasi , [2001] 4 SCC 362, there
was a recovery certificate issued by the tax officer under the Income-tax
Act, 1961 without the required service of notice of demand on the assessee
as mandated by section 156 of the Act, prior to issue of the recovery
certificate. Setting aside the sale of the property this Court observed
(vide para 21): V.D. Deshpande v. K.D. Kulkarni , AIR (1976) Bom 190, was also a case of a
suit to set aside the auction sale held by the revenue authorities. It was
contended for the defendant that such relief could not be given in the
absence of the State Government which was a necessary party to the suit.
This contention was rejected by the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court
by observing that where the plaintiffs can obtain complete and effective
relief from the Court in respect of the subject matter in dispute against a
party, it is not necessary to join any other party whether it is the
Government or others. As long as no relief was claimed against the State
Government, which the plaintiff was not bound to, the suit was competent.
It was observed (vide para 48) : Bajranglal stated in his written statement, as also in his evidence, that
after receipt of a telegram he had contacted Mahavirprasad and Ramprasad.
While Ramprasad did not say anything, Mahavirprasad had offered to take up
the matter for the purpose of having the sale set aside. Accordingly,
Mahavirprasad filed Suit No.218/73. Since Mahavirprasad had taken the lead,
Bajaranglal was supporting him. He was advised not to file a written
statement in Suit No.218/73, because he accepted whatever Mahavirprasad had
said in examination-in-chief. In Bajaranglal's written statement in the
Suit No.118/ 73, he pleaded that he was adopting whatever had been said by
Mahavirprasad in the Suit No.218/73 filed by him and also in
Mahavirprasad's written statement in Suit No. 118/73 "to the extent of
showing and proving that the plaintiff had no title and interest in respect
of suit property". All this material was correctly analysed by the learned
single Judge who drew justified conclusions therefrom. Unfortunately, the
Division Bench, without proper appreciation, has interfered by misdirecting
itself. Illegality of Sale

The sale certificate has been issued under section 206 of the BMC Act. Sub-
section (6) thereof provides that, after the sale of the immovable property
as aforesaid, the Commissioner shall put the person declared to be the
purchaser in possession and shall grant him a certificate to the effect
that he has purchased the property to which the certificate refers. The
evidence led by the plaintiff merely shows that Janardan Dhuri was the
highest bidder. The records produced by BMC show that Janardan Dhuri was
the highest bidder. If that be so, there is no acceptable explanation as to
how the sale certificate could have been issued in the name of plaintiff
Satyavati for she did not participate in the bid at the auction sale; much
less was she the highest bidder. The Division Bench has made a very curious
finding that "the sale certificate was issued in favour of the plaintiff by
the Corporation and was duly registered". We must say that this finding is
totally without basis. The sale certificate ex-fade shows that it was given
in the name of plaintiff Satyavati and there is no record in the BMC books
that the plaintiff was registered as the highest bidder nor as a purchaser
in the auction sale. Neither the plaintiff Satyavati, Janardan Dhuri, nor
any competent officer of the BMC entered the witness box to explain this
discrepancy as to how the sale certificate was issued in the name of
Satyavati when the highest bidder was Janardan Dhuri, who did not even
claim to have bid as an agent of Satyavati. It is only in the plaint that
the plaintiff for the first time claimed that she had paid the entire price
of the auction sale. This was an averment in the plaint which was not
substantiated by any evidence. Nonetheless, the Division Bench facilely
accepted this averment and held that the sale certificate was issued in
favour of the plaintiff as janardhan Dhuri was the highest bidder and
because he was in the employment of Ramprasad, the certificate of the sale
could be in the name of Satyavati and it conveyed her good title. To say
the least, the reasoning appears to be faulty. We are also unable to accept the reasoning of the Division Bench that
merely because the certificate of sale had been issued in the name of the
plaintiff, it was conclusive of the title of the plaintiff and could not be
impeached and that it was for the defendants to defend their possession. In
the first place, there is no provision in the BMC Act or Regulations for
conclusiveness of the certificate of sale. Secondly, the analogy drawn by
the Division Bench with a court sale is wholly misconceived. Thirdly, even
assuming that such a conclusiveness or presumption of sale is there, it can
only arise if it is shown that the certificate is issued strictly in
accordance with Section 206 and the Regulations, which was not the case
here. In these circumstances, where there is no compliance with the law, we
are unable to appreciate the reasoning of the Division Bench, nor its
conclusion, that the certificate of sale conveyed good title to Satyavati.
We are in agreement with the view expressed by the learned single Judge
that the sale was ab initio void and that the certificate of title was bad
and null and void for complete violation of the provisions of the BMC Act and Regulations made thereunder. In the circumstances of the case, and upon overall evaluation of the
evidence on record, we are satisfied that the conclusions drawn by the
learned single Judge were perfectly justified and in accordance with law.
The Division Bench erred on all counts in interfering with and setting
aside the judgment of the learned single Judge. In the result, we allow this appeal, set aside the judgment of the Division
Bench and affirm the Judgment of the learned single Judge. In the circumstances of the case the 8th respondent shall pay a sum of Rs.
50,000 as costs to the appellant.