P.N. PRAKASH, J. This is a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India seeking a

 mandamus forbearing the respondents from investigating Ref.No.ECIR/CEZO-

 1/PMLA/2015 under the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 (for brevity

 “the PML Act ”) on the premise that the investigation is without jurisdiction. 2 The undisputed facts are as under: xii. Since the case registered by the CBI disclosed a scheduled offence

 under the PML Act , the Enforcement Directorate registered a case in

 1 Manohar Lal Sharma v. Principal Secretary & others - (2014) 9 SCC 516

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 6 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 ECIR/CEZO-1/PMLA/2015 on 07.01.2015 and took up investigation

 of the same under the PML Act . xiii. Be it stated, the ECIR registered by the Enforcement Directorate is

 almost a reproduction of the averments in the CBI's FIR. For the ease

 of reference, the averments in the ECIR are reproduced hereunder: 2 RKM Powergen Pvt. Ltd. vs. The Joint Director, Enforcement Directorate - (2015 WLR 851)

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 8 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 360 MW power plant was commissioned on 27.11.2015 and coal for

 this power plant was being purchased from Coal India and other

 subsidiaries of the Central Government. xvii. The second power plant unit was commissioned on 12.02.2016 and a

 power purchase agreement was signed by RKM Company and Uttar

 Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd. for the supply of 350 MW of power to

 Uttar Pradesh for 25 years. xviii. Thus, RKM Company’s power projects in Chhattisgarh proceeded

 unhindered and at present, they have 4 power generation units there

 and are supplying power to several States, including Tamil Nadu.

 xix. The CBI investigation did not throw up any material which ultimately

 led to the filing of a closure report in RC 219 2014E 0018 on

 27.09.2017 before the jurisdictional Special Court in New Delhi,

 stating that the investigation conducted by them did not disclose

 commission of any offence. However, the Special Court, by order

 dated 27.09.2017, directed the CBI to conduct further investigation to

 find out if any public servant was involved in the matter.

 xx. It is admitted by both sides that the CBI has been taking time from the

 Special Court to complete further investigation. However, the fact

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 9 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 remains that, as on date, no material has surfaced from the CBI

 investigation to show that RKM Company had misrepresented facts for

 getting allocation of the Fatehpur East coal block. In other words,

 neither any irregularity was found in the coal block allotment process

 nor was any proceeds of crime generated via the allocation as the

 allotted land to RKM Company was found to be a reserve forest area

 ruling out any possibility of commercial exploitation.

 xxi. It is not the case of the CBI or the Enforcement Directorate that RKM

 Company had obtained the allotment order through illegal means and

 after so obtaining, they excavated coal and hence, generated proceeds

 of crime, as defined under the PML Act . xxii. While that being so, the Enforcement Directorate did not proceed

 further with their investigation till November 2019, obviously because,

 they were aware that in the absence of any proceeds of crime being

 generated from any criminal activity, they had no role to play.

 However, suddenly from November 2019 onwards, the Enforcement

 Directorate started summoning the officers of RKM Company and also

 the officials of financial institutions who lent money to RKM

 Company, from time to time. Unable to withstand the continued

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 10 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 harassment of the Enforcement Directorate, RKM Company has filed

 the present writ petition for the reliefs stated, supra.

 3 We have heard Mr. B. Kumar, learned Senior Counsel for

 Mr.S.Ramachandran, learned counsel on record for the petitioner/RKM Company

 and Mr. R. Sankaranarayanan, learned Additional Solicitor General for the

 Enforcement Directorate. 4 Mr.R.Sankaranarayanan, learned Additional Solicitor General,

 representing the Enforcement Directorate, raised a preliminary objection that this

 Court has no jurisdiction to entertain this writ petition and the remedy, if any, is

 before the Supreme Court. 5 On merits, Mr. Sankaranarayanan, learned Additional Solicitor General,

 stoutly defended the action of the Enforcement Directorate by contending that

 during investigation by the Enforcement Directorate, they stumbled upon “round

 tripping” transactions between the Indian and the overseas entities. He also

 submitted a flow chart in support of the stand of the Enforcement Directorate. To

 be more precise, we extract the relevant portion from the written submissions of

 the Enforcement Directorate: 6 The learned Additional Solicitor General further submitted that the

 prayer in the writ petition was not maintainable, and that in any event, this Court

 should not interfere at a stage when investigation was still ongoing. 7 In response, Mr. B. Kumar, learned Senior Counsel appearing for RKM

 Company submitted that the allegation of “round tripping” is a smokescreen that

 has been created by the Enforcement Directorate to keep the investigation going,

 knowing full well that the coal block allotment was only on paper and there was

 no generation of any proceeds of crime via any criminal activity. In this

 connection, Mr. B. Kumar invited the attention of this Court to the averments in

 paragraph 12 of the counter affidavit filed by the Enforcement Directorate: 8 Mr. B. Kumar submitted that from the aforesaid passage, it was clear

 that the Enforcement Directorate was aware that they did not have the power to

 proceed further with the investigation relating to the allegation of “round

 tripping”, which is why, the Enforcement Directorate themselves, requested the

 CBI to expand the scope of their investigation and till date, the CBI has not

 thought it fit to do so, because, the CBI was convinced that there was no “round

 tripping” at all. 9 We have considered the rival submissions. 10 The sheet anchor of the Enforcement Directorate’s case is that the writ

 petition under Article 226 of the Constitution is not maintainable. As the issue of

 maintainability was required to be tested at the threshold, we heard the learned

 counsel on either side and vide an order dated 15.02.2021, we concluded that the

 writ petition under Article 226 was maintainable. Our conclusions were as under: 15. Aggrieved by the above order, the petitioner Company
 approached the Supreme Court in SLP (C) Nos.18293 to 18296 of 2015
 (R.K.M. Powergen Private Limited Vs. The Assistant Director, Directorate
 of Enforcement, Chennai etc.). A 3 Judge Bench of the Supreme Court has
 dismissed the said petitions, observing as under: "Heard learned counsel for
 the petitioner. The special leave petition is dismissed. However, the
 petitioner may raise whatever contentions are available in law before the
 High Court." (emphasis supplied) 16. Pursuant to the above, a learned Single Judge of this Court, heard
 the writ petitions viz., W.P.Nos.7854, 10643, 14448 and 15317 of 2015 and
 passed final orders on 26.08.2015, allowing the writ petitions and directed
 defreezing of the bank accounts of the petitioner Company. Even in the said
 order, the learned Single Judge has discussed on the maintainability of the
 writ petition in the High Court and held as under in paragraph 6.1 : 17. Therefore, Mr.B.Kumar contended that in the litigation between
 the same parties, with regard to the same ECIR, when a writ petition has
 been entertained pursuant to the directions of the Supreme Court vide order
 dated 20.07.2015 in SLP (C) Nos.18293 to 18296 of 2015, there could be no
 bar for this Court, to entertain the present writ petition.

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 14 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 “18. We are in agreement with the aforesaid
 submission of Mr.B.Kumar, since the issue as to the very
 maintainability of the writ petition in the High Court went up
 to the Supreme Court and when the Supreme Court, has, by
 order dated 20.07.2015, permitted the petitioner Company to
 raise all contentions before the High Court, we cannot wash
 our hands off and say that the petitioner Company should
 have to go to the Supreme Court. With the above finding of ours, on the question of
 maintainability, we adjourn this case to 07.03.2022.”

 11 Thereafter, we adjourned this case, from time to time, to enable the

 Enforcement Directorate to test the correctness of the aforesaid order. After giving

 sufficient opportunities, we had proceeded to hear the matter finally. 12 Though we have held that the writ petition is maintainable, the question

 is whether this finding must necessarily result in a writ being issued in terms of the

 prayer sought by the petitioner/RKM Company. There is a subtle, yet, vital

 difference between the maintainability of a petition and the refusal to exercise

 jurisdiction on the facts of a given case. In the former case, the Court lacks the

 inherent jurisdiction to entertain a cause before it. In the latter case, the Court

 chooses to decline exercising its jurisdiction as a measure of self-imposed

 restraint. 13 The jurisdiction of this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution is a

 basic feature of the Constitution of India and cannot be taken away even by a

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 15 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 constitutional amendment (See L. Chandra Kumar v Union of India3 ). In that

 view of the matter, it cannot be contended, with any degree of seriousness, that a

 High Court does not possess the inherent jurisdiction to issue a writ in an

 appropriate case. It is also well settled that the High Court can issue a writ of

 mandamus to stop an investigation where it is found that the investigating officer

 was misusing his powers of investigation. We are fortified in holding so in the

 light of the decision of the Supreme Court in S.N. Sharma v Bipen Kumar

 Tiwari4 , wherein it was observed as under: 14 Nevertheless, the existence of jurisdiction is one aspect, and the manner

 of its exercise is quite another. The power of a High Court to issue high

 prerogative writs like a mandamus, certiorari, etc., flows from its plenary power

 under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and is discretionary in nature.

 Therefore, it does not imply that because the High Court is vested with jurisdiction

 3 (1997) 3 SCC 261

 4 (1970) 1 SCC 653

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 16 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 to issue an appropriate writ, it must necessarily follow that a writ must issue in all

 cases. The remedy is discretionary in nature and must be exercised in consonance

 with sound judicial principles. We have proceeded to pen these prefatory

 observations in the light of the submissions made at the bar that a writ petition

 under Article 226 was not maintainable in view of the order of the Supreme Court

 in Manohar Lal Sharma v Union of India5 . 15 We have carefully perused the order dated 25.07.2014 passed by the

 Supreme Court. What is discernable is that the CBI is conducting a Court-

 monitored investigation into the coal block allocations, by issuing various

 directions from time to time. The Court had taken note of the fact that a Special

 Judge had been notified by the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court to try the

 coal block allocation cases. The Court had also appointed a Special Public

 Prosecutor to conduct the prosecutions of the cases filed by the CBI and had

 proceeded to issue the following direction: 16 We also notice that the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate have been

 periodically filing detailed status reports of the various prosecutions conducted by

 them (See the series of orders collectively reported as “Manohar Lal Sharma v

 Union of India (2017) 11 SCC 731)”. Having carefully considered the various

 orders/directions passed by the Supreme Court, we are of the considered opinion

 that judicial propriety and institutional comity require us to refrain from exercising

 our jurisdiction under Article 226 by venturing to interdict the investigation of

 alleged offences under the PML Act, 2002 qua the coal block scam cases

 investigated by the CBI and monitored by the Supreme Court. 17 However, the complaint of Mr. B. Kumar, learned Senior Counsel is that

 the CBI having filed a closure report before the Special Court qua the allegations

 regarding the coal block allocation against RKM company, the Enforcement

 Directorate is now purporting to exercise powers to investigate the so-called

 offences under the FEMA and Customs Act, 1962 which have no connection with

 the allegations in the coal block scam cases. 18 To examine the aforesaid contention, it is first necessary to set out the

 relevant legal provisions. The offence of money-laundering is defined in Section 3 of the PML Act, 2002 as under: 19 The expression “proceeds of crime” is defined in Section 2(u) of the

 PML Act, 2002 as under: 20 On a combined reading of Sections 3 and 2(u) of the PML Act, 2002,

 the following are the ingredients of the offence of money-laundering: 21 The first limb is the case registered by the CBI registered in FIR NoRC

 219 2014E 0018 on 07.08.2014 for the offences under Section 420 IPC and Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, which are, admittedly,

 scheduled offences under the PML Act . 22 The Enforcement Directorate then went about searching for proceeds of

 crime by summoning and interrogating the officers of RKM Company during

 2015. It is not the case of the Enforcement Directorate that the officers of RKM

 Company did not cooperate with them. For over 7 years, the officers of RKM

 Company, including women, were summoned, from time to time, by the

 Enforcement Directorate as could be seen from the summons issued to Dr. Andaal

 Arumugam, Lakshmi Serisha and T.Ramachandran time and again. It is pertinent

 to point out that even the former officials of RKM Company were not spared. A

 perusal of the annexure to the summons issued to Paranjothi, former General

 Manager of RKM Company shows that she has been called upon to produce not

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 20 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 only documents relating to her, but also documents relating to her family members

 as well. For the sake of appreciation, we extract the annexure verbatim: Ltd., Chennai, along with copy of statutory returns, if any filed in this
 regard. 5. Activities connected to the EP contract between M/s. RKM Powergen
 Pvt. Ltd. and M/s.MIPP International Ltd., along with documentary
 evidences, if any. 23 What we have extracted above is only a sample and we find that others

 have also been asked to furnish such personal details. As alluded to above, the

 Enforcement Directorate froze all the bank accounts of RKM Company and

 brought their business to a standstill. Therefore, RKM Company had to rush to

 this Court and get relief, by which time, for over 9 months, they were unable to do

 any business transaction. 24 Coming to the allegation of “round tripping” which was strenuously

 pursued by the learned Additional Solicitor General, it is necessary to briefly

 notice the import of this expression. “Round tripping” can be defined as a practice

 by which funds are transferred from one country to another and transferred back to

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 21 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 the origin country for purposes like black money laundering or to get the benefit

 of tax concession/evasion/avoidance from countries like Mauritius, which enjoy

 low taxes, etc. It is the case of the Enforcement Directorate, as discernable from

 the ECIR, that a 10 rupee share of RKM Company was sold at a premium of

 Rs.240. In this way, it is contended that the Malaysian promoter had paid only

 Rs.1174.92 crore for acquiring 26% equity, whereas, the Indian promoter paid

 Rs.133.75 crore for acquiring 74% of the equity in RKM Company which resulted

 in substantial financial benefit to the RKM Company. 25 In this connection, our attention was invited to the letters dated

 04.07.2008 and 28.09.2012 issued by the Reserve Bank of India to RKM

 Company acknowledging the statutory declarations made by them under the

 Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or issue of security by a Person

 Resident Outside India), Regulations 2000. These communications clearly

 demonstrate that the sale of shares with a face value of Rs.10/- each at a premium

 of Rs.240/- per share was reported to the Reserve Bank of India by submitting the

 statutory declarations. This belies the contention of the Enforcement Directorate

 that RKM Company engaged in a clandestine deal with Mudajaya. On the

 contrary, these facts were fully reported to the Reserve Bank as statutorily

 required under Rule 9 of the 2000 Regulations. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 22 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 26 Faced with this difficulty, the Enforcement Directorate has come up

 with a completely different case in its counter affidavit before this Court. In

 paragraph 10 of its counter affidavit, it is contended as under: 27 It is necessary to point out that the case of the Enforcement Directorate

 in the ECIR is grounded on the twin allegation that RKM Company had obtained

 the allocation of Fatehpur East Coal Block by resorting to misrepresentation of

 facts. However, it is an undisputed fact that there was no mining from the said coal

 block with the result that RKM Company did not derive any benefit from the

 same. The Enforcement Directorate admits to this factual position as is evident

 from paragraph 18 of its counter affidavit wherein it is stated thus: 28 The allegation of round-tripping, even assuming there is one, as alleged

 by the Enforcement Directorate, is a criminal activity, falling within the domain of Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), there is no arrest provision under

 the provisions of FEMA, whereas, threat of arrest looms large in an investigation

 under the PML Act with bail conditions being very stringent. 29 As regards the contention of the Enforcement Directorate that Customs

 Duty was not paid properly for the imports that were made by RKM Company, be

 it noted, this falls within the domain of the Customs authorities under the Customs

 Act . Moreover, these imports of plant and machinery were made by RKM

 Company for commissioning their power plant in Ucchpinda Village in

 Chhattisgarh during 2011 and after the said imports, the power plant itself has

 been commissioned, as stated above. In any event, as on date there is no predicate

 office under the Customs Act, 1962 . The Enforcement Directorate cannot exercise

 its powers of investigation under the PML Act, 2002 to discover the existence of a

 predicate offence which is tantamount to putting the cart before the horse.

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 24 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 30 We are aware of the legal position that the Enforcement Directorate was

 created under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 , which was

 subsequently replaced by the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (for

 brevity “the FEMA”). Chapter VI of the FEMA is titled “Directorate of

 Enforcement”. When the PML Act came into force, the officers of the

 Enforcement Directorate were empowered to conduct investigations under the PML Act too. Thus, an officer of the Directorate of Enforcement could wear two

 hats, one, while investigating a case under the FEMA and the other, while

 investigating a case under the PML Act . However, wearing the hat of an officer

 under the PML Act , an officer of the Enforcement Directorate cannot conduct

 investigation under the FEMA, because, the PML Act has arrest powers, whereas

 the FEMA does not. Thus, under the guise of investigation under the FEMA, the

 Enforcement Directorate cannot keep the sword of arrest under the PML Act hanging over the head of a person. 31 The aforesaid is the raison d’etre for Section 66(2) of the PML Act

 which states that, while investigating a case under the PML Act , if any

 information or material comes to the possession of the Investigating Officer, he

 shall share the information or material in his possession with the agency

 concerned for necessary action. This clearly means that he cannot arrogate to

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 25 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 himself the power of the agency concerned under another statute and conduct

 investigation under that statute. 32 The learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that in the light of

 the recent amendments to Sections 3 and 44 of the PML Act vide Act 23 of 2019,

 notwithstanding the filing of the closure report of the CBI, the present

 investigation under the PML Act can proceed. To buttress this contention, he

 placed reliance on a Division Bench judgment of this Court in Yazhini Realtors

 Pvt. Ltd. v. The Assistant Director6, in which, one of us (PNPJ) was a member.

 The relevant portion of the said judgment reads thus: 33 There is a fallacy in the aforesaid submission, in that, in Yazhini

 Realtors (supra), on facts, there were proceeds of crime and those proceeds were

 projected as untainted property, whereas, in this case, the scenario is entirely

 different. In any event, as we have pointed out earlier in paragraph 16, we are not

 6 Crl.O.P. No.15979 of 2017 decided on 01.02.2021

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 26 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 interdicting the investigation under the PML Act, 2002 insofar as they relate to the

 predicate offences in the FIR registered by the CBI for the coal block cases. 34 Therefore, on the facts and circumstances of the case, we find that the

 Enforcement Directorate cannot exercise its powers of investigation to discover

 the existence of a predicate offence under the FEMA or the Customs Act . In

 plainer terms, the jurisdictional condition for exercising the powers of

 investigation cannot be made the subject matter of investigation. The Enforcement

 Directorate’s powers of investigation are statutory in nature. It must follow that

 the power of investigation must, therefore, be exercised strictly on the terms in

 which it is granted. We notice the sapient observations of the Chief Justice Y.V.

 Chandrachud in State of West Bengal v Swapan Kumar Guha7 which run thus: 35 The following observations of the Supreme Court in Secretary, Minor

 Irrigation & Rural Engg. Services, U.P. v Sahngoo Ram Arya8 are also apt: 36 From 2015 till today, the Enforcement Directorate has been unable to

 pin RKM Company to the ground by collecting evidence showing that they had

 committed an offence under the PML Act . Instead, the Enforcement Directorate

 has been freezing the bank accounts of RKM Company, summoning their officers,

 both present and former, including women, in order to find out if any offence has

 been committed by them under enactments other than the PML Act . A

 Constitutional Court cannot afford to shut its eyes when a citizen is being harassed

 in the name of investigation. 37 We may demonstrate the fallacy in the stand of the Enforcement

 Directorate with the following hypothetical example. Let us assume for a moment

 that during investigation under the PML Act , the officers of the Enforcement

 Directorate search the house of an accused. During the search, they discover a

 dead body buried in the house and suspect the commission of an offence under Section 302 IPC. Can they be permitted to record the statement of the accused qua

 discovery of the body in the house? Such a statement, if it is confessional in

 nature, would become admissible and relevant in the murder trial as it has been

 given to a non-police officer. Hence, their duty is to inform the police about the

 discovery of the dead body and leave it at that. Applying the same analogy to the

 instant case, if the Enforcement Directorate are unable to find materials worth the

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 29 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 salt to show that RKM Company had committed a criminal activity, generated

 proceeds of crime via the said criminal activity and had projected the same as

 untainted money, their role stops there. It does not lie with them to investigate to

 find out about other violations under the FEMA and Customs Act allegedly

 committed by RKM Company. They can very well hand over these aspects to the

 appropriate investigating agency and leave it at that. 38 However, it needs to be stated that the materials collected by the

 Enforcement Directorate, so far, cannot be thrown overboard, because, even if it

 were to be held that evidence was illegally obtained, they are per se not

 inadmissible provided they are relevant. The investigation agency may transfer

 the materials collected by them, under Section 66(2) of the PML Act, to the

 agency concerned for investigation. 39 In view of the above discussion, we hold that in the absence of there

 being any predicate offence under the Customs Act, 1962 , for the present, and the

 fact that the alleged offence under the FEMA, 1999, is not a predicate offence

 under the PML Act, 2002 , it follows that there cannot be any offence of money-

 laundering under Section 3 of the PML Act, 2002 qua these offences.

 Consequently, a writ of mandamus is issued restraining the Enforcement

 Directorate from exercising its powers under the PML Act, 2002 , qua the

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 30 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 investigation of alleged money-laundering in respect of these offences alone. We

 make it abundantly clear that we have not interdicted the investigation pertaining

 to the allegations of money-laundering qua the predicate offences forming the

 subject matter of FIR No.RC 219 2014E 0018 which is being investigated by the

 CBI. These investigations will proceed in terms of the directions/orders of the

 Supreme Court in Manohar Lal Sharma v Union of India9 , unhindered, and

 uninfluenced by any of the observation(s)/direction(s) made in this order. The writ petition is disposed on the aforesaid terms, with no order as to

 costs. Connected W.M.P. is closed. (P.N.P., J.) (A.A.N., J.)
 08.06.2022
 cad

 To

 1 The Assistant Director/Officer on Special Duty
 Directorate of Enforcement
 Government of India, Chennai Zonal Office
 Shastri Bhavan, III Block III & IV Floor
 26, Haddows Road, Chennai 600 006

 2 The Joint Director/Officer on Special Duty
 Directorate of Enforcement
 Government of India, Chennai Zonal Office 9 W.P. (C) No.463 of 2012 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 31 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 Shastri Bhavan, III Block III & IV Floor
 26 Haddows Road, Chennai 600 006

 3 The Public Prosecutor
 Madras High Court
 Chennai 600 104

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 32 of 33 W.P. No.24700 of 2021 P.N. PRAKASH, J. and
 A.A. NAKKIRAN, J. cad W.P. No.24700 of 2021 08.06.2022

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 33 of 33