J U D G M E N T
(With WP (C) Nos. 255, 258 and 353 of 2005) 

ARIJIT PASAYAT J. In the last few years the attack on actions of Governors 
in the matter of installation/dissolution of ministries has 
increased, which itself is a disturbing feature. A Governor has 
been assigned the role of a Constitutional sentinel and a vital 
link between the Union and the State. A Governor has also 
been described as a useful player in the channel of 
communication between the Union and the State in matters of 
mutual interest and responsibility. His oath of office binds 
him to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of India, 
1950 (in short 'the Constitution') and the law, and also to 
devote himself to the service and the well being of the people of 
the State concerned. When allegations are made that he is 
partisan and/or is acting like an agent of a political party, un-
mind of his Constitutional duties, it naturally is a serious 
matter. The cases at hand relate to acts of the Governor of Bihar. Challenge in these writ petitions is to the 
constitutionality, legality and validity of a Notification GSR 
333(E) dated 23.5.2005 of the Union of India in ordering 
dissolution of the Bihar Legislative Assembly. Writ Petition (C) 
No.257 of 2005 has been filed by four persons who were 
elected to the dissolved Legislative Assembly. Petitioner No.1 
Shri Rameshwar Prasad was elected as a candidate of the 
Bhartiya Janta Party (in short 'BJP'). Petitioner No.2 Shri 
Kishore Kumar was elected as an independent candidate. 
Petitioner No.3 Shri Rampravesh Rai was elected as a 
candidate of the Janta Dal United (in short 'JDU') while 
petitioner NO.4 Dr. Anil Kumar was elected as a candidate of 
the Lok Janshakti Party (in short 'LJP'). Writ Petition (C) No.353 of 2005 has been filed by Smt. 
Purnima Yadav who was elected as an independent candidate. 
Writ Petition (C) No.258 of 2005 has been filed by Shri Viplav 
Sharma, an Advocate, styled as a Public Interest litigation. All these writ petitions have been filed under Article 32 of 
the Constitution. In Viplav Sharma's Writ Petition in addition 
to the challenges made by the writ petitioners in other two writ 
petitions, prayer has been made for a direction to the Governor 
of Bihar to administer oath to all the elected members of the 
13th Legislative Assembly of the State of Bihar and make such 
assembly functional, purportedly in terms of Articles 172 and 176 of the Constitution and appoint the Chief Minister and 
Council of Ministers in terms of Article 164(1) of the 
Constitution. Further, consequential prayers have been made 
for a direction to the Election Commission of India (in short 
the 'Election Commission') not to hold fresh elections for the 
constitution of 14th State Legislative Assembly. It has also 
been prayed to direct stay the effect and operation of the 
purported report dated 22.5.2005 of the Governor of Bihar to 
the Union Cabinet inter-alia recommending the dissolution of 
the Assembly and the Presidential Proclamation dated 
7.3.2005 placing the 13th State Legislative Assembly under 
suspended animation and the Presidential Proclamation dated 
23.5.2005. In essence, his stand was that since the State 
Legislative Assembly was yet to be functional there was no 
question of dissolving the same. Certain other prayers have 
been made for laying down the guidelines and directions with 
which we shall deal with in detail later on. It is to be noted 
that by order dated 25.7.2005 it was noted that Mr. Viplav 
Sharma had stated before the Bench hearing the matter that 
he does not press the prayers (i), (ii), (vii) and (viii) in the writ 
petition. The challenges in essence, as culled out from the 
submissions made by the petitioners are essentially as follows: With reference to Tenth Schedule more particularly sub-
paragraphs 2 and 4 it is submitted that dis-qualification had 
been clearly incurred by the members of LJP break away 
group. There was in fact no merger of the so-called break away 
group with JDU. The documents filed by the petitioners amply 
show that there was only a proposal and in fact not any 
merger. Documents on the other hand show that the so called 
resolution was also manipulated. One person had signed for 
several persons and even the signatures differ. If really the 
persons were present in the so called meeting, adopted the 
resolution purported to have been taken, there was no reason 
as to why concerned participants did not sign the resolution 
and somebody else signed it in their favour. This clearly shows 
that on the basis of manipulated documents it was attempted 
to be projected as if Shri Nitish Kumar had a majority. 
Interestingly, Shri Nitish Kumar has not filed any petition and 
only four members have filed the petitions though claim was 
that more than 122 had extended support. Though that by 
itself may not be a ground to throw out the petitions, yet the 
petitions certainly suffer from legal infirmity. As amply proved, 
the petitioners have not approached this Court with clean 
hands and therefore are not entitled to any relief. It is 
submitted that the petitioners in WP (C) No.257 and 353 have 
not questioned the correctness of the President's Notification 
dated 7.3.2005, and interestingly in the so called Public 
Interest Litigation, it has been challenged. After having given 
up challenge to the major portion of the challenges it has not 
been explained by the petitioner in person as to how and in 
which way any of his rights has been affected. If the persons 
affected have not questioned the correctness of the Notification 
dated 7.3.2005 the petitioner in person should not be 
permitted to raise that question. It is the basic requirement of 
a Public Interest Litigation that persons who are affected are 
unable to approach the Court. It is strange that learned 
counsel for the legislators-writ petitioners have accepted the 
Notification dated 7.3.2005 to be valid and in order. The plea 
taken in the so called Public Interest Litigation is to the 
contrary. The factual position in Bommai 's case (supra) was 
different. It related to cases where elected governments were in 
office and the Governors directed dissolution. The position is 
different here. Further it is submitted that the power exercised 
by the Governor is legislative in character and it can only be 
nullified on the ground of ultra-vires. The reports of the 
National Commission To Review the Working Of The 
Constitution and Sarkaria Commission have amply indicated 
the role to be played by the Governors' and sanctity to be 
attached to their report. Even when the parameters of judicial 
review spelt out in the State of Rajasthan and Bommai's cases 
(supra) are kept in view, the impugned report and 
consequential President's Notification do not suffer from any 
infirmity to warrant interference. It is further submitted that 
the Election Commission had notified fresh elections and even 
if for the sake of arguments if any defect is noticed in the 
Governor's report or the consequential President's Notification, 
that cannot be a ground to stall the election already notified. 
People can give their mandate afresh and the plea that large 
sums of money would be spent if the fresh elections are held is 
really no answer to preventing installation of a government 
whose foundation is shaky. It is submitted that the report 
does not even show a trend of any partisan approach vis-a-vis 
any political party by the Governor who was acting 
independently. In fact before the report dated 21.5.2005 on 
which the final decision for the Presidential Proclamation was 
taken a report dated 27.4.2005 was given which clearly 
indicated that no party was in a position to form the 
Government. The Governor has clearly indicated the source 
from which he came to know about the efforts to form the 
Government by illegal means. It is pointed out that the 
decision relied upon by Mr. P.S. Narasimha and Mr. Viplav 
Sharma i.e. Udai Narain Sinha v. State of U.P. and Ors. (AIR 
1987 Allahabad 293) does not really reflect the correct position 
in law and was rendered in the peculiar fact situation. On the 
contrary, the decision of the Kerala High Court in K.K. Aboo v. 
Union of India (AIR 1965 Kerala 229) lays the correct position. 
Stand that because of Articles 172 or 174 of the Constitution 
there is no scope of dissolving the Assembly before it was 
summoned to hold the meeting is not acceptable on the face of Section 73 of the Representation of People Act, 1951 (in short 
the 'RP Act'). It is pointed out that the decision in K.K. Aboo 's 
case (supra) was approved to be laying down the correct law by 
a Constitution Bench of this Court in Special Reference No.1 
of 2002 (2002 (8) SCC 237). The reports of the Governor dated 6.3.2005, 27.4.2005 
and 21.5.2005 need to be reproduced. They read as under: He also met me on 2.3.2005. 7. 	Shri Ram Naresh Ram, Leader of the 
C.P.I. (M.L.-Lib), Legislature Party alongwith 4 
others met me and submitted a letter 
(Annexure V) that they would not support any 
group in the formation of Government. 8.	Shri Ram Vilas Paswan, National 
President of L.J.P. alongwith 15 others met me 
and submitted another letter (Annexure VI). 
They have re-iterated their earlier stand. 9.	The R.J.D. met me on 5.3.2005 in the 
forenoon and they staked claim to form a 
Government indicating the support from the 
following parties: They have further claimed that some of 
the Independent members may support the 
R.J.D. However, it has not been disclosed as to 
the number of Independent M.L.As. from 
whom they expect support nor their names. Even if we assume the entire 
independents totalling 17 to extend support to 
R.J.D. alliance, which has a combined 
strength of 91, the total would be 108, which 
is still short of the minimum requirement of 
122 in a House of 243. 10.	The N.D.A. delegation led by Shri Sushil 
Kumar Modi, M.P., met me in the evening of 
5.3.2005. They have not submitted any further 
letter. However, they stated that apart from 
their pre-election alliance of 92, another 10 
Independents will also support them and they 
further stated that they would be submitting 
letters separately. This has not been received 
so far. Even assuming that they have support 
of 10 Independents, their strength will be only 
102, which is short of the minimum 
requirement of 122. 11.	Six Independents M.L.As. met me on 
5.3.2005 and submitted a letter in which they 
have claimed that they may be called to form a 
Government and they will be able to get 
support of others (Annexure VIII). They have 
not submitted any authorisization letter 
supporting their claim. 12.	I have also consulted the legal experts 
and the case laws particularly the case 
reported in AIR 1994 SC 1918 where the 
Supreme Court in para 365 of the report 
summarized the conclusion. The relevant part 
is para 2, i.e. the recommendation of the 
Sarkaria Commission do merit serious 
consideration at the hands of all concerned. 
Sarkaria Commission in its report has said 
that Governor while going through the process 
of selection should select a leader who in his 
judgment is most likely to command a majority 
in the Assembly. The Book "Constitution of 
India" written by Shri V.N. Shukla (10th 
Edition) while dealing with Articles 75 and 164 of the Constitution of India has dealt with 
this subject wherein it has quoted the manner 
of selection by the Governor, in the following 
words: In Bommai case referred to above in para 153 
S.C. has stated with regard to the position 
where, I quote: 13.	I explored all possibilities and from the 
facts stated above, I am fully satisfied that no 
political party or coalition of parties or groups 
is able to substantiate a claim of majority in 
the Legislative Assembly, and having explored 
the alternatives with all the political parties 
and groups and Independents M.L.As., a 
situation has emerged in which no political 
party or groups appears to be able to form a 
Government commanding a majority in the 
House. Thus, it is a case of complete inability 
of any political party to form a stable 
Government commanding the confidence of the 
majority members. This is a case of failure of 
constitutional machinery. 14.	I, as Governor of Bihar, am not able to 
form a popular Government in Bihar, because 
of the situation created by the election results 
mentioned above. 15.	I, therefore, recommend that the present 
newly Constituent Assembly be kept in 
suspended animation for the present and the 
President of India is requested to take such 
appropriate action/decision, as required. With regards,

	
					 Yours sincerely,

					 (Buta Singh)

Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam,
President of India,
Rashtrapati Bhavan,
New Delhi. D.O. No. 52/GB		Patna, the 27th 
April,2005

Respected Rashtrapati Jee,

	I invite a reference to my D.O. No.33/GB 
dated the 6th March, 2005 through which a 
detailed analysis of the results of the Assembly 
elections were made and a recommendation was 
also made to keep the newly constituted 
Assembly (Constituted vide Election 
Commission's notification No.308/B.R.-
L.A./2005 dated the 4th March, 2005 and 
464/Bihar-LA/2005, dated the 4th March, 2005) 
in a suspended animation and also to issue 
appropriate direction/decision. In the light of the 
same, the President was pleased to issue a 
proclamation under Article 356 of the 
Constitution vide notification No.G.S.R. 162(E), 
dated 7th March, 2005 and the proclamation has 
been approved and assented by the Parliament. 2.	As none of the parties either individually or 
with the then pre-election combination or with 
post-election alliance combination could stake a 
claim to form a popular Government wherein 
they could claim a support of a simple majority of 
122 in a House of 243, I had no alternative but to 
send the above mentioned report with the said 
recommendation. 3.	I am given to understand that serious 
attempts are being made by JD-U and BJP to 
cobble a majority and lay claim to form the 
Government in the State. Contacts in JD-U and 
BJP have informed that 16-17 LJP MLAs have 
been won over by various means and attempt is 
being made to win over others. The JD-U is also 
targeting Congress for creating a split. It is felt in 
JD-U circle that in case LJP does not split then it 
can still form the Government with the support of 
Independent, NCP, BSP and SP MLAs and two 
third of Congress MLAs after it splits from the 
main Congress party. The JD-U and BJP MLAs 
are quite convinced that by the end of this month 
or latest by the first week of May JD-U will be in 
a position to form the Government. The high 
pressure moves of JD-U/BJP is also affecting the 
RJD MLAs who have become restive. According to 
a report there is a lot of pressure by the RJD 
MLAs on Lalu Pd. Yadav to either form the 
Government in Bihar on UPA pattern in the 
Centre, with the support of Congress, LJP and 
others or he should at least ensure the 
continuance of President's rule in the State. 4.	The National Commission To Review The 
Working Of The Constitution has also noticed 
that the reasons for increasing instability of 
elected Governments was attributable to 
unprincipled and opportunistic political 
realignment from time to time. A reasonable 
degree of stability of Government and a strong 
Government is important. It has also been 
noticed that the changing alignment of the 
members of political parties so openly really 
makes a mockery of our democracy. Under the Constitutional Scheme a political 
party goes before the electorate with a particular 
programme and it sets up candidates at the 
election on the basis of such programmes. The 
10th Schedule of the Constitution was introduced 
on the premise that political propriety and 
morality demands that if such persons after the 
elections changes his affiliation, that should be 
discouraged. This is on the basis that the loyalty 
to a party is a norm being based on shared 
beliefs. A divided party is looked on with 
suspicion by the electorate. 5.	Newspaper reports in the recent time and 
other reports gathered through meeting with 
various party functionaries/leaders and also 
intelligence reports received by me, indicate a 
trend to gain over elected representatives of the 
people and various elements within the party and 
also outside the party being approached through 
various allurements like money, caste, posts, etc. 
which is a disturbing feature. This would affect 
the constitutional provisions and safeguards built 
therein. Any such move may also distort the 
verdict of the people as shown by results of the 
recent elections. If these attempts are allowed to 
continue then it would be amounting to 
tampering with constitutional provisions. 6.	Keeping in view the above mentioned 
circumstances the present situation is fast 
approaching a scenario wherein if the trend is not 
arrested immediately, the consequent political 
instability will further give rise to horse trading 
being practised by various political 
parties/groups trying to allure elected MLAs. 
Consequently it may not be possible to contain 
the situation without giving the people another 
opportunity to give their mandate through a fresh 
poll. 7.	I am submitting these facts before the 
Hon'ble President for taking such action as 
deemed appropriate. With regards,

						Yours sincerely,

						(Buta Singh)

Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam,
President of India,
Rashtrapati Bhavan,
New Delhi." D.O. No. 140/PS-GB/BN	Patna, the 21st May, 2005
						
Respected Rashtrapati Jee,
	I invite a reference to my D.O. letter No. 
52/GB dated 27th April 2005 through which I 
had given a detailed account of the attempts 
made by some of the parties notably the JD-U 
and BJP to cobble a majority and lay a claim to 
form a Government in the State. I had informed 
that around 16-17 MLAs belonging to LJP were 
being wooed by various means so that a split 
could be effected in the LJP. Attention was also 
drawn to the fact that the RJD MLAs had also 
become restive in the light of the above moves 
made by the JD-U.

	As you are aware after the Assembly 
Elections in February this year, none of the 
political parties either individually or with the 
then pre-election combination or with post 
election alliance combination could stake a claim 
to form a popular Government since they could 
not claim a support of a simple majority of 122 in 
a House of 243 and hence the President was 
pleased to issue a proclamation under Article 356 of the Constitution vide notification No.  GSR- 
162 (E) dated 7th March 2005 and the Assembly 
was kept in suspended animation. The reports received by me in the recent 
past through the media and also through meeting 
with various political functionaries, as also 
intelligence reports, indicate a trend to win over 
elected representatives of the people. Report has 
also been received of one of the LJP MLA, who is 
General Secretary of the party having resigned 
today and also 17-18 more perhaps are moving 
towards the JD-U clearly indicating that various 
allurements have been offered which is a very 
disturbing and alarming feature. Any move by 
the break away action to align with any other 
party to cobble a majority and stake claim to 
form a Government would positively affect the 
Constitutional provisions and safeguards built 
therein and distort the verdict of the people as 
shown by the results in the recent Elections. If 
these attempts are allowed it would be amounting 
to tampering with Constitutional provisions. Keeping the above mentioned 
circumstances, I am of the considered view that if 
the trend is not arrested immediately, it may not 
be possible to contain the situation. Hence in my 
view a situation has arisen in the State wherein it 
would be desirable in the interest of the State 
that the Assembly presently kept in suspended 
animation is dissolved, so that the 
people/electorate can be provided with one more 
opportunity to seek the mandate of the people at 
an appropriate time to be decided in due course. With regards,

						Yours sincerely	
									
							Sd/- (Buta Singh)
Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam,
President of India,
Rashtrapati Bhavan,
New Delhi. We shall first deal with the question as to the essence of 
the judgment in Bommai 's case (supra). Lot of arguments have been advanced as to the true 
essence of the conclusions arrived at in Bommai 's case (supra) 
and the view expressed as regards the scope of judicial review. In A.K. Kaul and Anr. v. Union of India and Anr. (1995 (4) SCC 73), the position was summed up as follows: If the State of Rajasthan 's case ( supra) and Bommai 's 
case (supra) are read together it is crystal clear that in Bommai 's case, the scope of judicial review as set out in the State of Rajasthan 's case (supra) was elaborated as is clear 
from the summation in A.K. Kaul 's case (supra). 
Lord Greene said in 1948 in the famous Wednesbury 
case (1948 (1) KB 223s) that when a statute gave discretion to 
an administrator to take a decision, the scope of judicial 
review would remain limited. He said that interference was 
not permissible unless one or the other of the following 
conditions was satisfied, namely the order was contrary to law, 
or relevant factors were not considered, or irrelevant factors 
were considered; or the decision was one which no reasonable 
person could have taken. Lord Diplock in Council for Civil 
Services Union v. Minister of Civil Service [(1983) 1 AC 768] 
(called the CCSU case) summarized the principles of judicial 
review of administrative action as based upon one or other of 
the following viz., illegality, procedural irregularity and 
irrationality. He, however, opined that "proportionality" was a 
"future possibility". In Om Kumar and Ors. v. Union of India (2001 (2) SCC 386), this Court observed, inter alia, as follows: or "proportionality" and primary review came 
to be explained in R. v. Secy. of State for the 
Home Deptt. ex p Brind (1991) 1 AC 696. That 
case related to directions given by the Home 
Secretary under the Broadcasting Act, 1981 
requiring BBC and IBA to refrain from 
broadcasting certain matters through persons 
who represented organizations which were 
proscribed under legislation concerning the 
prevention of terrorism. The extent of 
prohibition was linked with the direct 
statement made by the members of the 
organizations. It did not however, for example, 
preclude the broadcasting by such persons 
through the medium of a film, provided there 
was a "voice-over" account, paraphrasing what 
they said. The applicant's claim was based 
directly on the European Convention of 
Human Rights. Lord Bridge noticed that the 
Convention rights were not still expressly 
engrafted into English law but stated that 
freedom of expression was basic to the 
Common law and that, even in the absence of 
the Convention, English Courts could go into 
the question (see p. 748-49). and that the courts were

"not perfectly entitled to start from the 
premise that any restriction of the right 
to freedom of expression requires to be 
justified and nothing less than an 
important public interest will be sufficient 
to justify it". Lord Templeman also said in the above case that the courts could go into the question 
whether a reasonable minister could 
reasonably have concluded that the 
interference with this freedom was justifiable. 
He said that "in terms of the Convention" any 
such interference must be both necessary and 
proportionate (ibid pp. 750-51). In the famous passage, the seeds of the 
principle of primary and secondary review by 
courts were planted in the administrative law 
by Lord Bridge in the Brind case (1991) 1 AC 696. Where Convention rights were in 
question the courts could exercise a right of 
primary review. However, the courts would 
exercise a right of secondary review based only 
on Wednesbury principles in cases not 
affecting the rights under the Convention. 
Adverting to cases where fundamental 
freedoms were not invoked and where 
administrative action was questioned, it was 
said that the courts were then confined only to 
a secondary review while the primary decision 
would be with the administrator. Lord Bridge 
explained the primary and secondary review as 
follows: In Union of India and Anr. vs. G. Ganayutham (1997 [7] 
SCC 463), in paragraph 31 this Court observed as follows: The court would consider whether 
relevant matters had not been taken into 
account or whether irrelevant matters 
had been taken into account or whether 
the action was not bona fide. The court 
would also consider whether the decision 
was absurd or perverse. The court would 
not however go into the correctness of the 
choice made by the administrator 
amongst the various alternatives open to 
him. Nor could the court substitute its 
decision to that of the administrator. This is the Wednesbury (1948 1 KB 223) 
test. (2) The court would not interfere 
with the administrator's decision unless 
it was illegal or suffered from procedural 
impropriety or was irrational  in the 
sense that it was in outrageous defiance 
of logic or moral standards. The 
possibility of other tests, including 
proportionality being brought into 
English administrative law in future is 
not ruled out. These are the CCSU (1985 
AC 374) principles. (3)(a) As per Bugdaycay (1987 AC 514), Brind (1991 (1) AC 696) and Smith 
(1996 (1) All ER 257) as long as the 
Convention is not incorporated into 
English law, the English courts merely 
exercise a secondary judgment to find out 
if the decision-maker could have, on the 
material before him, arrived at the 
primary judgment in the manner he has 
done. (3)(b) If the Convention is 
incorporated in England making available 
the principle of proportionality, then the 
English courts will render primary 
judgment on the validity of the 
administrative action and find out if the 
restriction is disproportionate or 
excessive or is not based upon a fair 
balancing of the fundamental freedom 
and the need for the restriction 
thereupon. (4)(a) The position in our country, in 
administrative law, where no 
fundamental freedoms as aforesaid are 
involved, is that the courts/tribunals will 
only play a secondary role while the 
primary judgment as to reasonableness 
will remain with the executive or 
administrative authority. The secondary 
judgment of the court is to be based on 
Wednesbury and CCSU principles as 
stated by Lord Greene and Lord Diplock 
respectively to find if the executive or 
administrative authority has reasonably 
arrived at his decision as the primary 
authority". The common thread running through in all these 
decisions is that the Court should not interfere with the 
administrator's decision unless it was illogical or suffers from 
procedural impropriety or was shocking to the conscience of 
the Court, in the sense that it was in defiance of logic or 
moral standards. In view of what has been stated in the 
Wednesbury's case (supra) the Court would not go into the 
correctness of the choice made by the administrator open to 
him and the Court should not substitute its decision to that 
of the administrator. The scope of judicial review is limited to 
the deficiency in decision-making process and not the 
decision. According to Wade, Administrative Law (9th Edition) is the 
law relating to the control of powers of the executive authorities. 
To consider why such a law became necessary, we have to 
consider its historical background. Up to the 19th century the functions of the State in 
England were confined to (i) defence of the country from foreign 
invasion, and (ii) maintenance of law and order within the 
country. This vast expansion in the State functions resulted in large 
number of legislations and also for wide delegation of State 
functions by Parliament to executive authorities, so also was 
there a need to create a body of legal principles to control and to 
check misuse of these new powers conferred on the State 
authorities in this new situation in the public interest. Thus, 
emerged Administrative Law. Maitland pointed out in his 
Constitutional History: But in the early 20th century following the tradition of 
Dicey's classic exposition in his: The Law of the Constitution, 
there was a spate of attacks on parliamentary delegation 
culminating in the book New Despotism by the then Chief 
Justice of England, Lord Hewart published in 1929. In 
response, the British Government in 1932 set up a committee 
called the Committee on Ministerial Powers headed by Lord 
Donoughmore, to examine these complaints and criticisms. 
However, the Donoughmore Committee rejected the argument of 
Lord Hewart and accepted the reality that a modern State 
cannot function without delegation of vast powers to the 
executive authorities, though there must be some control on 
them. In R. v. Lancashire CC, ex p Huddleston [1986 (2) All ER 
941 (CA)], it was said about Administrative Law that it 
"has created a new relationship between the 
courts and those who derive their authority 
from the public law, one of partnership based 
on a common aim, namely, the maintenance of 
the highest standards of public 
administration". In Liversidge v. Anderson (1941 (3) All 
E.R. 338 (HL) the case related to the Defence 
(General) Regulations, 1939 which provided: The detenu Liversidge challenged the detention order 
passed against him by the Secretary of State. The majority of 
the House of Lords, except Lord Atkin, held that the Court 
could not interfere because the Secretary of State had 
mentioned in his order that he had reasonable cause to believe 
that Liversidge was a person of hostile origin or association. 
Liversidge was delivered during the Second World War when the 
executive authority had unbridled powers to detain a person 
without even disclosing to the Court on what basis the 
Secretary had reached to his belief. However, subsequently, the 
British courts accepted Lord Atkin's dissenting view that there 
must be some relevant material on the basis of which the 
satisfaction of the Secretary of State could be formed. Also, the 
discretion must be exercised keeping in view the purpose for 
which it was conferred and the object sought to be achieved, 
and must be exercised within the four corners of the statute 
(See: Clariant International Ltd. and Another v. Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (2004(8) SCC 524) 
	Sometimes a power is coupled with a duty. Thus, a 
limited judicial review against administrative action is always 
available to the Courts. Even after elaboration in Bommai 's case 
(supra) the scope for judicial review in respect of Governors' 
action cannot be put on the same pedestal as that of other 
administrative orders. As observed in Para 376 of judgment in Bommai 's case (supra) the scope of judicial review would 
depend upon facts of the given case. There may be cases which 
do not admit of judicial prognosis. The principles which are 
applicable when an administrative action is challenged cannot 
be applied stricto sensu to challenges made in respect of 
proclamation under Article 356. However, in view of what is 
observed explicitly in Bommai 's case (supra), the proclamation 
under Article 356(1) is not legislative in character. 
	A person entrusted with discretion must, so to speak, 
direct himself properly in law. He must call his attention to 
matters which he is bound to consider. He must exclude from 
his consideration matters which are irrelevant to what he has to 
consider. If he does not obey those rules he may truly be said to 
be acting unreasonably. Similarly, there may be something so 
absurd that no sensible person could ever dream that it lay 
within the powers of the authority. It is an unwritten rule of the law, constitutional and 
administrative, that whenever a decision-making function is 
entrusted to the subjective satisfaction of a statutory 
functionary, there is an implicit obligation to apply his mind to 
pertinent and proximate matters only, eschewing the irrelevant 
and the remote. (See: Smt. Shalini Soni and Ors. v. Union of 
India and others 1980 (4) SCC 544). The Wednesbury principle is often misunderstood to mean 
that any administrative decision which is regarded by the Court 
to be unreasonable must be struck down. The correct 
understanding of the Wednesbury principle is that a decision 
will be said to be unreasonable in the Wednesbury sense if (i) it 
is based on wholly irrelevant material or wholly irrelevant 
consideration, (ii) it has ignored a very relevant material which 
it should have taken into consideration, or (iii) it is so absurd 
that no sensible person could ever have reached to it. 
	As observed by Lord Diplock in CCSU's case (supra) a 
decision will be said to suffer from Wednesbury 
unreasonableness if it is "so outrageous in its defiance of logic 
or of accepted moral standards that no sensible person who had 
applied his mind to the question to be decided could have 
arrived at it". A Constitution is a unique legal document. It enshrines a 
special kind of norm and stands at the top of normative 
pyramid. Difficult to amend, it is designed to direct human 
behavior for years to come. It shapes the appearance of the 
State and its aspirations throughout history. It determines the 
State's fundamental political views. It lays the foundation for 
its social values. It determines its commitments and 
orientations. It reflects the events of the past. It lays the 
foundation for the present. It determines how the future will 
look. It is philosophy, politics, society, and law all in one. 
Performance of all these tasks by a Constitution requires a 
balance of its subjective and objective elements, because "it is 
a constitution we are expounding." As Chief Justice Dickson of 
the Supreme Court of Canada noted: The political question doctrine, in particular, remits 
entire areas of public life to Congress and the President, on 
the grounds that the Constitution assigns responsibility for 
these areas to the other branches, or that their resolution will 
involve discretionary, polycentric decisions that lack discrete 
criteria for adjudication and thus are better handled by the 
more democratic branches. By foreclosing judicial review, 
even regarding the minimal rationality of the political 
branches' discretionary choices, the doctrine denies federal 
judges a role in "giving proper meaning to our public value" in 
important substantive fields. (Quoted from an Article in 
Harvard Law Review). Democratic Theory is based on a notion of human 
dignity: as beings worthy of respect because of their very 
nature, adults must enjoy a large degree of autonomy, a status 
principally attainable in the modern world by being able to 
share in the Governance of their community. Because direct 
rule is not feasible for the mass of citizens, most people can 
share in self government only by delegating authority to freely 
chosen representatives. Thus Justice Hugo L. Black 
expressed a critical tenet of democratic theory when he wrote: For democratic theory, what makes governmental 
decisions morally binding is process: the people's freely 
choosing representatives, those representatives' debating and 
enacting policy and later standing for re-election, and 
administrators' enforcing that policy. Democratic theory, 
therefore, tends to embrace both positivism and moral 
relativism. Whereas democratic theory turns to moral relativism, 
constitutionalism turns to moral realism. It presumes that 
"out there" lurk discoverable standards to judge whether 
public policies infringe on human dignity. The legitimacy of a 
policy depends not simply on the authenticity of decision 
makers' credentials but also on substantive criteria. Even 
with the enthusiastic urging of a massive majority whose 
representatives have meticulously observed proper processes, 
government may not trample on fundamental rights. For 
constitutionalists, political morality cannot be weighed on a 
scale in which "opinion is an omnipotence," only against the 
moral criterion of sacred, individual rights. They agree with 
Jafferson: "An elective despotism was not the government we 
fought for......" (From Constitutions, Constitutionalism, and 
Democracy by Walter F. Murphy). Allegation of mala-fides without any supportable basis is 
the last feeble attempt of a losing litigant, otherwise it will 
create a smokescreen on the scope of judicial review. This is a 
pivotal issue around which the fate of this case revolves. As 
was noted in A.K. Kaul 's case (supra) the satisfaction of the 
President is justiciable. It would be open to challenge on the 
ground of mala fides or being based wholly on extraneous or 
irrelevant grounds. The sufficiency or the correctness of the 
factual position indicated in the report is not open to judicial 
review. The truth or correctness of the materials cannot be 
questioned by the Court nor would it go into the adequacy of 
the material and it would also not substitute its opinion for 
that of the President. Interference is called for only when there 
is clear case of abuse of power or what is some times called 
fraud on power. The Court will not lightly presume abuse or 
misuse of power and will make allowance for the fact that the 
decision making authority is the best judge of the situation. If 
the Governor would have formed his opinion for dissolution 
with the sole objective of preventing somebody from staking a 
claim it would clearly be extraneous and irrational. The 
question whether such person would be in a position to form a 
stable government is essentially the subjective opinion of the 
Governor; of course to be based on objective materials. The 
basic issue therefore is did the Governor act on extraneous 
and irrelevant materials for coming to the conclusion that 
there was no possibility of stable government. According to the petitioners, the question whether there 
was any allurement or horse trading (an expression frequently 
used in such cases) or allurement of any kind is not a matter 
which can be considered by the Governor. The scope of 
judicial review of Governor's decision does not and cannot 
stand on the same footing as that of any other administrative 
decision. In almost all legal inquiries intention as 
distinguished from motive is the all important factor and in 
common parlance a malicious act stands equated with an 
intentional act without just cause or excuse. Whereas fairness 
is synonymous with reasonableness bias stand included 
within the attributes and broader purview of the word "malice" 
which in common acceptation implies "spite" or "ill will". Mere 
general statements will not be sufficient for the purpose of 
indication of ill will. There must be cogent evidence available 
on record to come to a conclusion as to whether in fact there 
was bias or mala fide involved which resulted in the 
miscarriage of justice. The tests of real likelihood and 
reasonable suspicion are really inconsistent with each other. 
(See S. Parthasarthi v. State of A.P. (1974 (3) SCC 459). The 
word 'bias' is to denote a departure from the standing of even 
handed justice. (See: Franklin vs. Minister of Town and 
Country Planning (1947 2 All ER 289 (HL). In State of Punjab v. V.K. Khanna and Ors. (2001 (2) 
SCC 330), it was observed as follows: Gough (1993 AC 646) together with the 
Dimes case (Dimes v. Grand Junction 
Canal, (1853) 3 HL Cas 759 : 10 ER 301), 
Pinochet case ((2000) 1 AC 119), Australian 
High Court's decision in the case of J.R.L., 
ex p C.J.L., Re ((1986) 161 CLR 342) as also 
the Federal Court in Ebner, Re ((1999) 161 
ALR 557) and on the decision of the 
Constitutional Court of South Africa in 
President of the Republic of South Africa v. 
South African Rugby Football Union ((1999) 
4 SA 147) stated that it would be rather 
dangerous and futile to attempt to define or 
list the factors which may or may not give 
rise to a real danger of bias. The Court of 
Appeal continued to the effect that 
everything will depend upon facts which 
may include the nature of the issue to be 
decided. It further observed : In Bommai 's case (supra) though all the learned Judges 
held that exercise of power under Article 356(1) of the 
Constitution is subject to judicial review but in the matter of 
justiciability of the satisfaction of the President, the majority 
view was to the effect that the principles evolved in Barium 
Chemicals Ltd. and Anr. v. Company Law Board and Ors. (AIR 
1967 SC 295) for adjudging the validity of an action based on 
the subjective satisfaction of the authority created by the 
Statute do not in their entirety apply to the exercise of 
constitutional power under Article 356 of the Constitution. 
Mala fide intent or biased attitude cannot to be put on a strait-
jacket formula but depend upon facts and circumstances of 
each case and in that perspective judicial precedent would not 
be of much assistance. It is important to note that in Bommai 's case (supra) this Court was concerned with cases of 
dissolution of Assemblies when cabinets were in office. Though 
at first flush, it appears that the factual background in 
Karnataka's case (supra) dealt with in Bommai 's case (supra) 
has lot of similarity with the factual position in hand, yet on a 
deeper analysis the position does not appear to be so. The 
factual position was peculiar. In the instant case, the 
Governor's report reveals that the source of his opinion was 
intelligence reports, media reports and discussions with 
functionaries of various parties. A plea was raised by the 
petitioners that it has not been indicated as to functionaries of 
which party the Governor had discussed with. That cannot be 
a ground to hold the report to be vulnerable. As was noted in Bommai 's case (supra) the sufficiency or correctness of factual 
aspects cannot be dealt with. Therefore, as noted above, the 
only question which needs to be decided is whether the 
conclusions of the Governor that if foul means are adopted to 
cobble the majority it would be against the spirit of democracy. 
Again the question would be if means are foul can the 
Governor ignore it and can it be said that his view is 
extraneous or irrational. In the report dated 27.4.2005 to which reference has 
been made in the report dated 21.5.2005 reference is made to 
allurements like money, caste, posts etc. and this has been 
termed as a disturbing feature. In both the reports, the 
opinion of the Governor is that if these attempts are allowed to 
continue, it would amount to tampering with constitutional 
provisions. Stand of the petitioners is that even if it is accepted 
to be correct, there is no constitutional provision empowering 
the Governor to make the same basis for not allowing a claim 
to be staked. This argument does not appear to be totally 
sound. In Kihoto Hollohan v. Zachillhu and Ors. (1992 Supp (2) 
SCC 651) the menace of defection was noted with concern and 
the validity of the Tenth Schedule was upheld. While 
upholding the validity of the provision this Court in no 
uncertain terms deprecated the change of loyalties to parties 
and the craze for power. The Statement of Objects and 
Reasons appended to the Constitution (52nd Amendment) Act, 
1985 refer to the evil of political defection which has been the 
matter of national concern. It was noted that if it is not 
combated it is likely to undermine the very foundation of our 
democracy and the principles which sustain it. It was noted as 
follows: 27. 	A constitutional document outlines only 
broad and general principles meant to endure 
and be capable of flexible application to 
changing circumstances  a distinction which 
differentiates a statute from a Charter under 
which all statutes are made. Cooley on 
Constitutional Limitations (8th edn. Vol.1, 
p.129) says: Again, in paragraph 41, the position was illuminatingly 
stated by Mr. Justice M.N. Venkatachaliah (as His Lordship 
then was). A right to elect, fundamental though it is to 
democracy is anomalously enough neither a fundamental right 
nor a common law right. It is pure and simple, a statutory 
right. So it is the right to be elected. So is the right to dispute 
an election. Outside of statute, there is no right to elect, no 
right to be elected and no right to dispute an election. 
Statutory creations they are and therefore subject to statutory 
limitation. (See Jyoti Basu and Ors. v. Debi Ghosal and Ors. (1982 (1) SCC 691). Democracy as noted above is the basic feature of the 
Constitution. In paragraphs 44 and 49 of Kihoto 's case (supra) 
it was noted as follows: are constitutional." Therefore, the well recognised position in law is that 
purity in the electorate process and the conduct of the elected 
representative cannot be isolated from the constitutional 
requirements. "Democracy" and "Free and Fair Election" are 
inseparable twins. There is almost an inseverable umbilical 
cord joining them. In a democracy the little man- voter has 
overwhelming importance and cannot be hijacked from the 
course of free and fair elections. His freedom to elect a 
candidate of his choice is the foundation of a free and fair 
election. But after getting elected, if the elected candidate 
deviates from the course of fairness and purity and becomes a 
"Purchasable commodity" he not only betrays the electorate, 
but also pollutes the pure stream of democracy. Can the governor whose constitutional duty is to 
safeguard the purity throw up his hands in abject 
helplessness in such situations? As noted by this Court in People's Union for Civil 
Liberties (PUCL) and Anr. v. Union of India and Anr. (2003 (4) 
SCC 399) a well informed voter is the foundation of democratic 
structure. If that be so, can it be said that the Governor will 
remain mute and silent spectator when the elected 
representatives act in a manner contrary to the expectations of 
the voters who had voted for them. In paragraph 94 of it was 
noted as follows: There is no place for hypocrisy in democracy. The 
Governor's perception about his power may be erroneous, but 
it is certainly not extraneous or irrational. It has been rightly 
contended by learned counsel for the Union of India that apart 
of Governor's role to ensure that the Government is stable, the 
case may not be covered by the Tenth Schedule and it cannot 
be said that by avoiding the Tenth Schedule by illegitimate or 
tainted means a majority if gathered leaves the Governor 
helpless, and a silent onlooker to the tampering of mandate by 
dishonest means. It is not and cannot be said that by 
preventing a claim to be staked the Governor does not act 
irrationally or on extraneous premises. Had the Governor 
acted with the object of preventing anyone from staking a 
claim his action would have been vulnerable. The conduct of 
the Governor may be suspicious and may be so in the present 
case, but if his opinion about the adoption of tainted means is 
supportable by tested materials, certainly it cannot be 
extraneous or irrational. It would all depend upon the facts of 
each case. If the Governor in a particular case without tested 
or unimpeachable material merely makes an observation that 
tainted means are being adopted, the same would attract 
judicial review. But in the instant case there is some material 
on which the Governor has acted. This ultimately is a case of 
subjective satisfaction based on objective materials. On the 
factual background one thing is very clear i.e. no claim was 
staked and on the contrary the materials on record show what 
was being projected. It is also clear from a bare perusal of the 
documents which the petitioners have themselves enclosed to 
the writ petitions that authenticity of the documents is 
suspect. Judicial response to human rights cannot be blunted by 
legal jugglery. (See: Bhupinder Sharma v. State of Himachal 
Pradesh 2003(8) SCC 551). Justice has no favourite other than 
the truth. Reasonableness, rationality, legality as well as 
philosophically provide colour to the meaning of fundamental 
rights. What is morally wrong cannot be politically right. The 
petitioners themselves have founded their claims on 
documents which do not have even shadow of genuineness so 
far as claim of majority is concerned. If the Governor felt that 
what was being done was morally wrong, it cannot be treated 
as politically right. This is his perception. It may be erroneous. 
It may not be specifically spelt out by the Constitution so far 
as his powers are concerned. But it ultimately is a perception. 
Though erroneous it cannot be termed as extraneous or 
irrational. Therefore however suspicious conduct of the 
Governor may be, and even if it is accepted that he had acted 
in hot haste it cannot be a ground to term his action as 
extraneous. A shadow of doubt about bona fides does not lead 
to an inevitable conclusion about mala fides. We may hasten to add that similar perceptions by 
Governors may lead to chaotic conditions. There may be 
human errors. Therefore, the concerned Governor has to act 
carefully with care and caution and can draw his inference 
from tested and unimpeachable material; otherwise not. In B.R. Kapur v. State of Tamil Nadu and Anr. (AIR 2001 
SC 3435) this Court considered the role of the Governor in 
appointing the Chief Minister. It was held that the Governor 
can exercise his discretion and can decline to make the 
appointment when the person chosen by the majority party is 
not qualified to be member of Legislature. It was observed that 
in such a case the Constitution prevails over the will of the 
people. It was further observed that accepting submissions as 
were made in that case that the Governor exercising powers 
under Article 164(1) read with (4) was obliged to appoint as 
Chief Minister whosoever the majority party in the Legislature 
nominated, regardless of whether or not the person nominated 
was qualified to be a member of the legislature under Article 
173 or was disqualified in that behalf under Article 191 ,and 
the only manner in which a Chief Minister who was not 
qualified or who was disqualified could be removed was by a 
vote of no-confidence in the legislature or by the electorate at 
the next elections and that the Governor was so obliged even 
when the person recommended was, to the Governor's 
knowledge, a non-citizen, under age, a lunatic or an 
undischarged insolvent, and the only way in which a non-
citizen, or under age or lunatic or insolvent Chief Minister 
could be removed was by a vote of no-confidence in the 
legislature or at the next election, is to invite disaster. The situation cannot be different when the Chief Minister 
nominated was to head a Ministry which had its foundation on 
taint and the majority is cobbled by unethical means or 
corrupt means. As was observed in B.R. Kapur 's case (supra) 
in such an event the constitutional purity has to be 
maintained and the Constitution has to prevail over the will of 
the people. With these conclusions the writ applications could have 
been disposed of. But, taking note of some of the disturbing 
features highlighted by learned counsel about the suspicious 
and apparently indefensible roles of some Governors, it is 
necessary to deal with some of the relevant aspects. It is relevant to take note of what the Sarkaria Committee 
had said about the role of Governors: State relations. Points of friction between the 
Union and the States began to multiply. 4.1.02	The role of the Governor has come 
in for attack on the ground that some 
Governors have failed to display the qualities 
of impartiality and sagacity expected of them. 
It has been alleged that the Governors have 
not acted with necessary objectivity either in 
the manner of exercise of their discretion or in 
their role as a vital link between the Union and 
the States. Many have traced this mainly to 
the fact that the Governor is appointed by, and 
holds office during the pleasure of, the 
President, (in effect, the Union Council of 
Ministers). The part played by some Governors, 
particularly in recommending President's rule 
and in reserving States Bills for the 
consideration of the President, has evoked 
strong resentment. Frequent removals and 
transfers of Governors before the end of their 
tenure has lowered the prestige of this office. 
Criticism has also been levelled that the Union 
Government utilizes the Governor's for its own 
political ends. Many Governors, looking 
forward to further office under the Union or 
active role in politics after their tenure, came 
to regard themselves as agents of the Union. (Underlined for emphasis) 2.	Historical background: Chelmsford Reforms (1919) ushered in 
responsible Government, albeit in a 
rudimentary form. However, the Governor 
continued to be the pivot of the Provincial 
administration. 4.2.02 The Government of India Act, 1935 introduced provincial autonomy. The Governor 
was now required to act on the advice of 
Ministers responsible to the Legislature. Even 
so, it placed certain special responsibilities on 
the Governor, such as prevention of grave 
menace to the peace or tranquility of the 
Province, safeguarding the legitimate interests 
of minorities and so on. The Governor could 
also act in his discretion in specified matters. 
He functioned under the general 
superintendence and control of the Governor 
General, whenever he acted in his individual 
judgment or discretion. 4.2.03	In 1937 when the Government of 
India Act, 1935 came into force, the Congress 
party commanded a majority in six provincial 
legislatures. They foresaw certain difficulties in 
functioning under the new system which 
expected Ministers to accept, without demur, 
the censure implied, if the Governor exercised 
his individual judgment for the discharge of 
his special responsibilities. The Congress 
Party agreed to assume office in these 
Provinces only after it received an assurance 
from the Viceroy that the Governors would not 
provoke a conflict with the elected 
Government. 4.2.04	Independence inevitably brought 
about a change in the role of the Governor. 
Until the Constitution came into force, the 
provisions of the Government of India Act, 
1935 as adapted by the India (Provisional 
Constitution) Order, 1947 were applicable. 
This Order omitted the expressions 'in his 
discretion', 'acting in his discretion' and 
'exercising his individual judgment', wherever 
they occurred in the Act. Whereas, earlier, 
certain functions were to be exercised by the 
Governor either in his discretion or in his 
individual judgment, the Adaptation Order 
made it incumbent on the Governor to exercise 
these as well as all other functions only on the 
advice of his Council of Ministers. 4.2.05	The framers of the Constitution 
accepted, in principle, the Parliamentary or 
Cabinet system of Government of the British 
model both for the Union and the States. While 
the pattern of the two levels of government 
with demarcated powers remained broadly 
similar to the pre-independence arrangements, 
their roles and inter-relationships were given a 
major reorientation. 4.2.06	The Constituent Assembly discussed 
at length the various provisions relating to the 
Governor. Two important issues were 
considered. The first issue was whether there 
should be an elected Governor. It was 
recognized that the co-existence of an elected 
Governor and a Chief Minister responsible to 
the Legislature might lead to friction and 
consequent weakness in administration. The 
concept of an elected Governor was therefore 
given up in favour of a nominated Governor. 
Explaining in the Constituent Assembly why a 
Governor should be nominated by the 
President and not elected Jawaharlal Nehru 
observed that "an elected Governor would to 
some extent encourage that separatist 
provincial tendency more than otherwise. 
There will be far fewer common links with the 
Centre." 4.2.07	The second issue related to the 
extent of discretionary powers to be allowed to 
the Governor. Following the decision to have a 
nominated Governor, references in the various 
Articles of the Draft Constitution relating to 
the exercise of specified functioned by the 
Governor 'in his discretion' were deleted. The 
only explicit provisions retained were those 
relating to Tribal Areas in Assam where the 
administration was made a Central 
responsibility. The Governor as agent of the 
Central Government during the transitional 
period could act independently of his Council 
of Ministers. Nonetheless, no change was made 
in Draft Article 143 , which referred to the 
discretionary powers of the Governor. This 
provision in Draft Article 143 (now Article 163 ) generated considerable discussion. Replying to 
it, Dr. Ambedkar maintained that vesting the 
Governor with certain discretionary powers 
was not contrary to responsible Government. Xx		xx		xx		xx

4.3.09	The Constitution contains certain 
provisions expressly providing for the Governor 
to Act :- Xx			xx		xx
4.4.01	The three important facets of the 
Governor's role arising out of the 
Constitutional provisions, are:- and 

	(C)	As an agent of the Union 
Government in a few specific areas during 
normal times (e.g. Article 239(2) and in a 
number of areas during abnormal 
situations (e.g. article 356(1) )

4.4.02	There is little controversy about ) 
above. But the manner in which he has 
performed the dull role, as envisaged in (a) and (b) above, has attracted much criticism. The 
burden of the complaints against the 
behaviour of Governors, in general, is that they 
are unable to shed their political inclinations, 
predilections and prejudices while dealing with 
different political parties within the State. As a 
result, sometimes the decisions they take in 
their discretion appear as partisan and 
intended to promote the interests of the ruling 
party in the Union Government, particularly if 
the Governor was earlier in active politics or 
intends to enter politics at the end of his term. 
Such a behaviour, it is said, tends to impair 
the system of Parliamentary democracy, 
detracts from the autonomy of the States, and 
generates strain in Union State relations. In the Report of the "National Commission To Review The 
Working Of The Constitution" the role of the Governor has 
been dealt with in the following words: In selecting a Governor in accordance with the 
above criteria, persons, belonging to the minority 
groups continue to be given a chance as hitherto. 
(para 8.14.3)
	There should be a time-limit-say a period of six 
months within which the Governor should take a 
decision whether to grant assent or to reserve a Bill 
for consideration of the President. If the Bill is 
reserved for consideration of the President, there 
should be a time-limit, say of three months, within 
which the President should take a decision whether 
to accord his assent or to direct the Governor to 
return it to the State Legislature or to seek the 
opinion of the Supreme Court regarding the 
constitutionality of the Act under Article 143. (Para 8.14.4.)

8.14.6	 Suitable amendment should be made in 
the Constitution so that the assent given by the 
President should avail for all purposes of relevant 
articles of the Constitution. 	However, it is 
desirable that when a Bill is sent for the President's 
assent, it would be appropriate to draw the 
attention of the President to all the articles of the 
Constitution, which refer to the need for the assent 
of the President to avoid any doubts in court 
proceedings. 8.14.7	A suitable article should be inserted in 
the Constitution to the effect that an assent given 
by the President to an Act shall not be permitted to 
be argued as to whether it was given for one 
purpose or another. When the President gives his 
assent to the Bill, it shall be deemed to have been 
given for all purposes of the Constitution. 8.14.8	The following proviso may be added to Article 111 of the Constitution: Suitable amendment may also be made in Article 200. Article 356 should not be deleted. But it must 
be used sparingly and only as a remedy of the last 
resort and after exhausting action under other 
articles like 256, 257 and 355. (Paras 8.18 and 8.19.2) 
 
8.16-Use-Misuse of Article 356

" Since the coming into force of the Constitution on 
26th January, 1950, Article 356 and analogous 
provisions have been invoked 111 times. According 
to a Lok Sabha Secretariat study, on 13 occasions 
the analogous provision namely Section 51 of the 
Government of Union Territories Act, 1963 was 
applied to Union Territories of which only 
Pondicherry had a legislative assembly until the 
occasion when it was last applied. In the remaining 
98 instances the Article was applied 10 times 
technically due to the mechanics of the Constitution 
in circumstances like re-organisation of the States, 
delay in completion of the process of elections, for 
revision of proclamation and there being no party 
with clear majority at the end of an election. In the 
remaining 88 instances a close scrutiny of records 
would show that in as many as 54 cases there were 
apparent circumstances to warrant invocation of Article 356. These were instances of large scale 
defections leading to reduction of the ruling party 
into minority, withdrawal of support of coalition 
partners, voluntary resignation by the government 
in view of widespread agitations, large scale 
militancy, judicial disqualification of some members 
of the ruling party causing loss of majority in the 
House and there being no alternate party capable of 
forming a Government. About 13 cases of possible 
misuse are such in which defections and 
dissensions could have been alleged to be result of 
political manoeuvre or cases in which floor tests 
could have finally proved loss of support but were 
not resorted to. In 18 cases common perception is 
that of clear misuse. These involved the dismissal of 
9 State Governments in April 1977 and an equal 
number in February 1980. This analysis shows that 
number of cases of imposition of President's Rule 
out of 111, which could be considered as a mis-use 
for dealing with political problems or considerations 
irrelevant for the purposes in that Article such as 
mal-administration in the State are a little over 20. 
Clearly in many cases including those arising out of 
States Re-organisation it would appear that the 
President's Rule was inevitable. However, in view of 
the fact that Article 356 represents a giant 
instrument of constitutional control of one tier of 
the constitutional structure over the other raises 
strong misapprehensions. 8.17- Sarkaria Commission-	Chapter 6 of the 
Sarkaria Commission Report deals with emergency 
provisions, namely, Articles 352 to 360. The 
Sarkaria Commission has made 12 
recommendations; 11 of which are related to Article 356 while 1 is related to Article 355 of the 
Constitution. Sarkaria Commission also made 
specific recommendations for amendment of the 
Constitution with a view to protecting the States 
from what could be perceived as a politically driven 
interference in self-governance of States. The 
underlined theme of the recommendations is to 
promote a constitutional structure and culture 
that promotes co-operative and sustained growth 
of federal institutions set down by the 
Constitution. 8.19. Need for conventions- Xx		xx			xx		xx		
8.19.5-	In case of political breakdown, the 
Commission recommends that before issuing a 
proclamation under Article 356 the concerned State 
should be given an opportunity to explain its 
position and redress the situation, unless the 
situation is such, that following the above course 
would not be in the interest of security of State, or 
defence of the country, or for other reasons 
necessitating urgent action. 8.20. Situation of Political breakdown

	Xx		xx			xx		xx

8.20.3	The Commission recommends that the 
question whether the Ministry in a State has lost 
the confidence of the Legislative Assembly or not, 
should be decided only on the floor of the Assembly 
and nowhere else. If necessary, the Union 
Government should take the required steps, to 
enable the Legislative Assembly to meet and freely 
transact its business. The Governor should not be 
allowed to dismiss the Ministry, so long as it enjoys 
the confidence of the House. It is only where a Chief 
Minister refuses to resign, after his Ministry is 
defeated on a motion of no-confidence, that the 
Governor can dismiss the State Government. In a 
situation of political breakdown, the Governor 
should explore all possibilities of having a 
Government enjoying majority support in the 
Assembly. If it is not possible for such a 
Government to be installed and if fresh elections 
can be held without avoidable delay, he should ask 
the outgoing Ministry, (if there is one), to continue 
as a caretaker government, provided the Ministry 
was defeated solely on a issue, unconnected with 
any allegations of maladministration or corruption 
and is agreeable to continue. The Governor should 
then dissolve the Legislative Assembly, leaving the 
resolution of the constitutional crisis to the 
electorate. 8.20.4	The problem of political breakdown would 
stand largely resolved if the recommendations made 
in para 4.20.7 in Chapter 4 in regard to the election 
of the leader of the House (Chief Minister) and the 
removal of the Government only by a constructive 
vote of no-confidence are accepted and 
implemented. 8.20.5. Normally President's Rule in a State should 
be proclaimed on the basis of Governor's Report 
under article 356(1). The Governor's report should 
be a "speaking document", containing a precise and 
clear statement of all material facts and grounds, on 
the basis of which the President may satisfy himself, 
as to the existence or otherwise of the situation 
contemplated in Article 356. 8.21. Constitutional Amendments
 

8.21.1- Article 356 has been amended 10 times 
principally by way of amendment of clause 356(4) 
and by substitution/omission of proviso to Article 
356(5). These were basically procedural changes. Article 356 , as amended by Constitution (44th 
Amendment) provides that a resolution with respect 
to the continuance in force of a proclamation for 
any period beyond one year from the date of issue of 
such proclamation shall not be passed by either 
House of Parliament unless two conditions are 
satisfied, viz:- 8.21.2	The fulfillment of these two conditions 
together are a requirement precedent to the 
continuation of the proclamation. It could give rise 
to occasions for amendment of the Constitution 
from time to time merely for the purpose of this 
clause as happened in case of Punjab. Circumstances may arise where even without the 
proclamation of Emergency under Article 352 , it 
may be difficult to hold general elections to the 
State Assembly. In such a situation continuation of 
President's Rule may become necessary. It may, 
therefore, be more practicable to delink the two 
conditions allowing for operation of each condition 
in its own specific circumstances for continuation of 
the President's Rule. This would allow for flexibility 
and save the Constitution from the need to amend it 
from time to time. 8.21.3.	The Commission recommends that in 
clause (5) of Article 356 of the Constitution, in sub-
clause (a) the word "and" occurring at the end 
should be substituted by "or" so that even without 
the State being under a proclamation of Emergency, 
President's rule may be continued if elections 
cannot be held. 8.21.4	Whenever a proclamation under Article 
356 has been issued and approved by the 
Parliament it may become necessary to review the 
continuance in force of the proclamation and to 
restore the democratic processes earlier than the 
expiry of the stipulated period. The Commission are 
of the view that this could be secured by 
incorporating safeguards corresponding, in 
principal, to clauses (7) and (8) of Article 352. The 
Commission, therefore, recommends that clauses 
(6) and (7) under Article 356 may be added on the 
following lines: "(6) Notwithstanding anything 
contained in the foregoing clauses, the President 
shall revoke a proclamation issued under clause (1) 
or a proclamation varying such proclamation if the 
House of the People passes a resolution 
disapproving, or, as the case may be, disapproving 
the continuance in force of, such proclamation. (7) 
Where a notice in writing signed by not less than 
one-tenth of the total number of members of the 
House of the People has been given, of their 
intention to move a resolution for disapproving, or, 
as the case may be, for disapproving the 
continuance in force of, a proclamation issued 
under clause (1) or a proclamation varying such 
proclamation: 8.22- Dissolution of Assembly

8.22.1-	When it is decided to issue a 
proclamation under Article 356(1) , a matter for 
consideration that arises is whether the Legislative 
Assembly should also be dissolved or not. Article 
356 does not explicitly provide for dissolution of the 
Assembly. One opinion is that if till expiry of two 
months from the Presidential Proclamation and on 
the approval received from both Houses of 
Parliament the Legislative Assembly is not 
dissolved, it would give rise to operational 
disharmony. Since the executive power of the Union 
or State is co-extensive with their legislative powers 
respectively, bicameral operations of the legislative 
and executive powers, both of the State Legislature 
and Parliament in List II of VII Schedule, is an 
anathema to the democratic principle and the 
constitutional scheme. However, the majority 
opinion in the Bommai judgment holds that the 
rationale of clause (3) that every proclamation 
issued under Article 356 shall be laid before both 
Houses of Parliament and shall cease to operate at 
the expiry of two months unless before the 
expiration of that period it has been approved by 
resolutions passed by both Houses of Parliament, is 
to provide a salutary check on the executive power 
entrenching parliamentary supremacy over the 
executive. 8.22.2	The Commission having considered these 
two opinions in the background of repeated 
criticism of arbitrary use of Article 356 by the 
executive, is of the view that the check provided 
under clause 3 of Article 356 would be ineffective 
by an irreversible decision before Parliament has 
had an opportunity to consider it. The power of 
dissolution has been inferred by reading sub-clause (a) of clause I of Article 356 along with Article 174 which empowers the Governor to dissolve Legislative 
Assembly. Having regard to the overall 
constitutional scheme it would be necessary to 
secure the exercise of consideration of the 
proclamation by the Parliament before the Assembly 
is dissolved. 8.22.3 The Commission, therefore, recommends 
that Article 356 should be amended to ensure that 
the State Legislative Assembly should not be 
dissolved either by the Governor or the President 
before the Proclamation issued under Article 356(1) 
has been laid before Parliament and it as had an 
opportunity to consider it. It would also be appropriate to take note of very 
enlightening discussions in the Constituent Assembly which 
throw beacon light on the role of Governors, parameters of 
powers exercisable under Articles 174 and 356 of the 
Constitution. Constituent Assembly met on Ist June, 1949 Article 143
(Amendment Nos. 2155 and 2156 were not moved)	
H. V. Kamath (C.P. & Berar: General): Mr. President, Sir, 
I move: If this amendment were accepted by the House, this 
clause of Article 143 would read thus :- Sir, it appears from a reading of this clause that the Government of India Act of 1935 has been copied more or 
less blindly without mature consideration. There is no 
strong or valid reason for giving the Governor more 
authority either in his discretion or otherwise vis-a-vis 
his ministers, than has been given to the President in 
relation to his ministers. If we turn to Article 61 (1) , we 
find it reads as follows :- When you, Sir, raised a very important issue, the other 
day, Dr. Ambedkar clarified this clause by saying that the 
President is bound to accept the advice of his ministers 
in the exercise of all of his functions. But here Article 
143 vests certain discretionary powers in the Governor, 
and to me it seems that even as it was, it was bad 
enough, but now after having amended Article 131 regarding election of the Governor and accepted 
nominated Governors, it would be wrong in principle and 
contrary to the tenets and principles of constitutional 
Government, which you are going to build up in this 
country. It would be wrong I say, to invest a Governor 
with these additional powers, namely, discretionary 
powers. I feel that no departure from the principles of 
constitutional Government should be favoured except for 
reasons of emergency and these discretionary powers 
must be done away with. I hope this amendment of mine 
will commend itself to the House. I move, Sir. 
Prof. K. T. Shah (Bihar: General) : Mr. President, I beg to 
move: So, that the amended Article would read. Sir, this is a logical consequence of the general principle 
of this Draft Constitution, namely, that the Government 
is to be upon the collective responsibility of the entire 
Cabinet to the legislature. At the same time, in the 
Cabinet the Prime Minister or the Chief Minister or by 
whatever title he is described would be the Principal 
Adviser and I would like to fix the responsibility definitely 
by the Constitution on the Chief Minister, the individual 
Ministers not being in the same position. Whatever may 
be the procedure or convention within the Cabinet itself, 
however the decisions of the Cabinet may be taken, so far 
as the Governor is concerned, I take it that the 
responsibility would be of the Chief Minister who will 
advise also about the appointment of his colleagues or 
their removal if it should be necessary. It is but in the 
fitness of things that he should be made directly 
responsible for any advice tendered to the Constitutional 
head of the State, namely, the Governor. As it is, in my 
opinion, a clear corollary from the principles we have so 
far accepted, I hope there would be no objection to this 
amendment. (Amendments Nos. 2159 to 2163 were not moved.) 
Mr. President: There is no other amendment. The Article 
and the amendments are open to discussion. 
Shri T. T. Krishnamachari : Mr. President, I am afraid I 
will have to oppose the amendment moved by my 
honourable Friend Mr. Kamath, only for the reason that 
he has not understood the scope of the clearly and his 
amendment arises out of a misapprehension. 
Sir, it is no doubt true, that certain words from this 
Article may be removed, namely, those which refer to the 
exercise by the Governor of his functions where he has to 
use his discretion irrespective of the advice tendered by 
his Ministers. Actually, I think this is more by way of a 
safeguard, because there are specific provisions in this 
Draft Constitution which occur subsequently where the 
Governor is empowered to act in his discretion 
irrespective of the advice tendered by his Council of 
Ministers. There are two ways of formulating the idea 
underlying it. One is to make a mention of this exception 
in this Article 143 and enumerating the specific power of 
the Governor where he can exercise his discretion in the 
s that occur subsequently, or to leave out any mention of 
this power here and only state is in the appropriate . The 
former method has been followed. Here the general 
proposition is stated that the Governor has normally to 
act on the advice of his Ministers except in so far as the 
exercise of his discretions covered by those in the 
Constitution in which he is specifically empowered to act 
in his discretion. So long as there are Articles occurring 
subsequently in the Constitution where he is asked to act 
in his discretion, which completely cover all cases of 
departure from the normal practice to which I see my 
honourable Friend Mr. Kamath has no objection, I may 
refer to Article 188 , I see no harm in the provision in this 
Article being as it is. It happens that this House decides 
that in all the subsequent Articles, the discretionary 
power should not be there, as it may conceivably do, this 
particular provision will be of no use and will fall into 
desuetude. The point that my honourable Friend is trying 
to make, while he concedes that the discretionary power 
of the Governor can be given under Article 188 , seems to 
be pointless. If it is to be given in Article 188 , there is no 
harm in the mention of it remaining here. No harm can 
arise by specific mention of this exception of Article 143. Therefore, the serious objection that Mr. Kamath finds for 
mention of this exception is pointless. I therefore think 
that the Article had better be passed without any 
amendment. If it is necessary for the House either to limit 
the discretionary power of the Governor or completely do 
away with it, it could be done in the Articles that occur 
subsequently where specific mention is made without 
which this power that is mentioned here cannot at all be 
exercised. That is the point I would like to draw the 
attention of the House to and I think the Article had 
better be passed as it is. Dr. P. S. Deshmukh (C. P. & Berar: General): Mr. 
President, Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari has clarified the 
position with regard to this exception which has been 
added to clause (1) of Article 143. If the Governor is, in 
fact, going to have a discretionary power, then it is 
necessary that this clause which Mr. Kamath seeks to 
omit must remain. Sir, Besides this, I do not know if the Drafting Committee 
has deliberately omitted or they are going to provide it at 
a later stage, and I would like to ask Dr. Ambedkar 
whether it is not necessary to provide for the Governor to 
preside at the meetings of the Council of Ministers. I do 
not find any provision here to this effect. Since this Article 143 is a mere reproduction of section 50 of the 
Government of India Act, 1935, where this provision does 
exist that the Governor in his discretion may preside at 
the meetings of the Council of Minister, I think this 
power is very necessary. Otherwise, the Ministers may 
exclude the Governor from any meetings whatever and 
this power unless specifically provided for, would not be 
available to the Governor. I would like to draw the 
attention of the members of the Drafting Committee to 
this and to see if it is possible either to accept an 
amendment to Article 143 by leaving it over or by making 
this provision in some other part. I think this power of 
the Governor to preside over the meetings of the Cabinet 
is an essential one and ought to be provided for. 
Shri Brajeshwar Prasad: Mr. President, Sir, the Article 
provides-- Sir, I am not a constitutional lawyer but I feel that by the 
Provisions of this Article the Governor is not bound to act 
according to the advice tendered to him by his Council of 
Ministers. It only means that the Ministers have the right 
to tender advice to Governor. The Governor is quite free 
to accept or to reject the advice so tendered. In another 
sphere of administration the Governor can act in the 
exercise of his functions in his discretion. In this sphere 
the Ministry has not got the power to tender any advice. 
Of course it is left open to the Governor to seed the 
advice of the Ministers even in this sphere. 
I feel that we have not taken into account the present 
facts of the situation. We have tried to copy and imitate 
the constitutions of the different countries of the world. 
The necessity of the hour requires that the Governor 
should be vested not only with the power to act in his 
discretion but also with the power to act in his individual 
judgment. I feel that the Governor should be vested with 
the power of special responsibilities which the Governor 
under the British regime were vested in this country. I 
feel that there is a dearth of leadership in the provinces. 
Competent men are not available and there are all kinds 
of things going on in the various provinces. Unless the 
Governor is vested with large powers it will be difficult to 
effect any improvement in the Provincial administration. 
Such a procedure may be undemocratic but such a 
procedure will be perfectly right in the interest of the 
country. I feel there is no creative energy left in the 
middle class intelligentsia of this country. They seem to 
have become bereft of initiative and enterprise. The 
masses who ought to be the rulers of this land are down-
trodden and exploited in all ways. Under these 
circumstances there is no way left open but for the 
Government of India to take the Provincial 
administrations in its own hands. I feel that we are on 
the threshold of a revolution in this country. There will 
be revolution, bloodshed and anarchy in this country. I 
feel that at this juncture it is necessary that all powers 
should remain centralised in the hands of the 
Government of India. In certain provinces the machinery 
of law and order seems to have completely broken down. 
Dacoities, arson, loot, murder and inflationary conditions 
are rampant. I am opposed to this Article, because I am 
convinced that federalism cannot succeed in a country 
which is passing through a transitory period. The 
national economy of America is fully developed. It can 
afford to have a federal form of Government. In a country 
where there is no room for expansion and for economic 
development, there is no necessity for a centralised 
economy. In India when our agriculture, industry, 
minerals etc. are in an incipient stage of development, it 
is necessary that power must be vested in the hands of 
the Government of India. Federalism was in vogue in the 
19th century when the means of communications were 
undeveloped. The technical knowledge and resources at 
the disposal of Governments in ancient times were of a 
very meager character. Today the situation has 
completely changed. Means of communications have 
developed rapidly. Technical knowledge and the 
necessary personnel at the disposal of the Government of 
India are of such a wide character that it can undertake 
to perform all the functions which a modern Government 
is expected to perform. There is another reason why I am 
opposed to this Article. In this country there is no scope 
for federalism. All governments have become more or less 
unitary in character. If we are to escape political 
debacles, economic strangulation and military defeats on 
all fronts, then our leaders and statesmen must learn to 
think in unorthodox terms: otherwise there is no future 
for this country. Pandit Hirday Kunzru: (United Provinces: General): Mr. 
President, I should like to ask Dr. Ambedkar whether it is 
necessary to retain after the words "that the Governor 
will be aided and advised by his Ministers", the words 
"except in regard to certain matter in respect of which he 
is to exercise his discretion". Supposing these words, 
which are reminiscent of the old Government of India Act and the old order, are omitted, what harm will be done? 
The functions of the Ministers legally will be only to aid 
and advice the Governor. The Article in which these 
words occur does not lay down that the Governor shall be 
guided by the advice of his Ministers but it is expected 
that in accordance with the Constitutional practice 
prevailing in all countries where responsible Government 
exists the Governor will in all matters accept the advice of 
his Ministers. This does not however mean that where 
the Statute clearly lays down that action in regard to 
specified matters may be taken by him on his own 
authority this Article 143 will stand in his way. 
My Friend Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari said that as Article 
188 of the Constitution empowered the Governor to 
disregard the advice of his Ministers and to take the 
administration of the province into his own hands, it was 
necessary that these words should be retained, i.e. the, 
discretionary power of the Governor should be retained. If 
however, he assured us, Article 188 was deleted later, the 
wording of Article 143 could be reconsidered. I fully 
understand this position and appreciate it, but I should 
like the words that have been objected to by my Friend 
Mr. Kamath to be deleted. I do not personally think that 
any harm will be done if they are not retained and we can 
then consider not merely Article 188 but also Article 175 on their merits; but in spite of the assurance of Mr. 
Krishnamachari the retention of the words objected to 
does psychologically create the impression that the 
House is being asked by the Drafting Committee to 
commit itself in a way to a principle that it might be 
found undesirable to accept later on. I shall say nothing 
with regard to the merits of Article 188. I have already 
briefly expressed my own views regarding it and shall 
have an opportunity of discussing it fully later when that 
Article is considered by the House. But why should we, to 
being with, use a phraseology that it an unpleasant 
reminder of the old order and that makes us feel that 
though it may be possible later to reverse any decision 
that the House may come to now, it may for all practical 
purposes be regarded as an accomplished fact? I think 
Sir, for these reasons that it will be better to accept the 
amendment of my honourable Friend Mr. Kamath, and 
then to discuss Articles 157 and 188 on their merits. 
I should like to say one word more before I close. If Article 143 is passed in its present form, it may give rise 
to misapprehensions of the kind that my honourable 
Friend Dr, Deshmukh seemed to be labouring under 
when he asked that a provision should be inserted 
entitling the Governor to preside over the meetings of the 
Council of Ministers. The Draft Constitution does not 
provide for this and I think wisely does not provide for 
this. It would be contrary to the traditions of responsible 
government as they have been established in Great 
British and the British Dominions, that the Governor or 
the Governor-General should, as a matter of right, 
preside over the meetings of his cabinet. All that the 
Draft Constitution does is to lay on the Chief Ministers 
the duty of informing the Governor of the decisions come 
to by the Council of Ministers in regard to administrative 
matter and the legislative programme of the government. 
In spite of this, we see that the Article 143 , as it is 
worded, has created a misunderstanding in the mind of a 
member like Dr. Deshmukh who takes pains to follow 
every of the Constitution with care. This is an additional 
reason why the discretionary power of the Governor 
should not be referred to in Article 143. The speech of my 
friend Mr. Krishnamachari does not hold out the hope 
that the suggestion that I have made has any chance of 
being accepted. Nevertheless, I feel it my duty to say that 
the course proposed by Mr. Kamath is better than what 
the Drafting Sub-Committee seem to approve. 
Prof. Shibban Lal Saksena (United Provinces: General): Shri H. V. Kamath: Sir, on a point of clarification, Sir, I 
know why it is that though emergency powers have been 
conferred on the President by the Constitution no less 
than on Governors, perhaps more so, discretionary power 
as such have not been vested in the President but only in 
Governors? Pandit Thakur Das Bhargava (East Punjab: General): Sir, 
I beg to oppose the amendment of Mr. Kamath. Under Article 143 the Governor shall be aided in the exercise of 
his functions by a Council of Ministers. It is clear so far. I 
gave notice of an amendment which appears on the order 
paper as Article 142-A which I have not moved. In the 
amendment I have suggested that the Governor will be 
bound to accept the advice of his ministers on all matters 
except those which are under this Constitution required 
to be exercised by him in his discretion. My submission 
in that it is wrong to say that the Governor shall be a 
dummy or an automaton. As a matter of fact according to 
me the Governor shall exercise very wide powers and very 
significant powers too. If we look at Article 144 it says: So he has the power to appoint his ministers. But when 
the ministers are not in existence who shall advise him in 
the discharge of his functions? When he dismisses his 
ministry then also he will exercise his functions under 
his own discretion. Then again, when the Governor calls upon the leader of a 
party for the choice of ministers, after a previous ministry 
has been dissolved , in that case there will be no ministry 
in existence; and who will be there to advise him? 
Therefore he will be exercising his functions in his 
discretion. It is wrong to assume that the Governor will 
not be charged with any functions which he will exercise 
in his discretion. Articles 175 and 188 are the other 
Articles which give him certain functions which he has to 
exercise in his discretion. Under Article 144 (4) there is a mention of the 
Instrument of Instructions which is given in the Fourth 
Schedule. The last paragraph of it runs thus: My submission is that according to me the Governor 
shall be a guide, philosopher and friend of the Ministry 
as well as the people in general, so that he will exercise 
certain functions some of which will be in the nature of 
unwritten conventions and some will be such as will be 
expressly conferred by this Constitutions. He will be a 
man above party and he will look at the Minister and 
government from a detached standpoint. He will be able 
to influence the ministers and members of the legislature 
in such a manner that the administration will run 
smoothly. In fact to say that a person like him is merely a 
dummy, an automaton or a dignitary without powers is 
perfectly wrong. It is quite right that so far as our 
conception of a constitutional governor goes he will have 
to accept the advice of his ministers in many matters but 
there are many other matters in which the advice will 
neither be available nor will he be bound to accept that 
advice. (underlined for emphasis)
Under Article 147 the Governor has power for calling for 
information and part (c) says: This will be the duty of the 
Chief Minister. This is specifically a matter which is of great importance. 
The Governor is competent to ask the Chief Minister to 
place any matter before the Council of Ministers which 
one minister might have decided. When he calls for 
information he will be acting in the exercise of his 
discretion. He may call for any kind of information. With 
this power he will be able to control and restrain the 
ministry from doing irresponsible acts. In my opinion 
taking the Governor as he is conceived to be under the 
Constitution he will exercise very important functions 
and therefore it is very necessary to retain the words 
relating to his discretion in Article 143. Shri H. V. Pataskar (Bombay: General): Sir, Article 143 is 
perfectly clear. With regard to the amendment of my 
honourable Friend Mr. Kamath various points were 
raised, whether the Governor is to be merely a figure-
head, whether he is to be a constitutional head only or 
whether he is to have discretionary powers. To my mind 
the question should be looked at from and entirely 
different point of view. Article 143 merely relates to the 
functions of the ministers. It does not primarily relate to 
the power and functions of a Governor. It only says: Granting that we stop there, is it likely that any 
complications will arise or that it will interfere with the 
discretionary powers which are proposed to be given to 
the Governor? In my view Article 188 is probably 
necessary and I do not mean to suggest for a moment 
that the Governor's powers to act in an emergency which 
powers are given under Article 188 , should not be there. 
My point is this, whether if this Provision, viz., "except in 
so far as he is by or under this Constitution required to 
exercise his functions or any of them in his discretion", is 
not there, is it going to affect the powers that are going to 
be given to him to act in his discretion under Article 188? I have carefully listened to my honourable Friend and 
respected constitutional lawyer. Mr. Alladi Krishnaswami 
Ayyer, but I was not able to follow why a provision like 
this is necessary. He said that instead later on, while 
considering Article 188 , we might have to say 
"Notwithstanding anything contained in Article 143." In 
the first place to my mind it is not necessary. In the next 
place, even granting that it becomes necessary at a later 
stage to make provision on Article 188 by saying 
"notwithstanding anything contained in Article 143" , it 
looks so obnoxious to keep these words here and they are 
likely to enable certain people to create a sort of 
unnecessary and unwarranted prejudice against certain 
people. Article 143 primarily relates to the functions of 
the ministers. Why is it necessary at this stage to remind 
the ministers of the powers of the Governor and his 
functions, by telling them that they shall not give any aid 
or advice in so far as he, the Governor is required to act 
in his discretion? This is an Article which is intended to 
define the powers and functions of the Chief Minister. At 
that point to suggest this, looks like lacking in courtesy 
and politeness. Therefore I think the question should be 
considered in that way. The question is not whether we 
are going to give discretionary power to the Governors or 
not. The question is not whether he is to be merely a 
figure-head or otherwise. These are question to be 
debated at their proper time and place. When we are 
considering Article 143 which defines the function of the 
Chief minister it looks so awkward and unnecessary to 
say in the same "except in so far as he is by or under 
this Constitution required to exercise his functions or 
any of them in his discretion." Though I entirely agree 
that Article 188 is absolutely necessary I suggest that in 
this Article 143 these words are entirely unnecessary and 
should not be there. Looked at from a practical point of 
view this provision is misplaced and it is not courteous, 
nor polite, nor justified nor relevant. I therefore suggest 
that nothing would be lost by deleting these words. I do 
not know whether my suggestion would be acceptable 
but I think it is worth being considered from a higher 
point of view. Shri Krishna Chandra Sharma (United Provinces: I wish to say word more with regard to Professor Shah's 
amendment that the Minister shall be responsible to the 
Governor. The Minister has a majority in the legislature 
and as such, through the majority, he is responsible to 
the people. If he is responsible to the Governor, as 
distinguished from his responsibility to the Legislature 
and through the legislature to the people of the State, 
then he can be overthrown by the majority in the 
legislature and he cannot maintain his position. He 
cannot hold the office. Therefore it is an impossible 
proposition that a Minister could ever be responsible to 
the Governor as distinguished from his responsibility to 
the people through the majority in the legislature. He 
should therefore be responsible to the Legislature and the 
people and not to the President. That is the only way in 
which under the scheme in the Draft Constitution the 
government of the country can he carried on. (underlined for emphasis)

Shri Rohini Kumar Chaudhari: (Assam: General): I rise to 
speak more in quest of clarification and enlightenment 
than out of any ambition to make a valuable contribution 
to this debate. Sir, one point which largely influenced this House in 
accepting the Article which provided for having 
nominated Governors was that the Honourable Dr. 
Ambedkar was pleased to assure us that the Governor 
would be merely a symbol. I ask the honourable Dr. 
Ambedkar now, whether any person who has the right to 
act in his discretion can be said to be a mere symbol. I 
am told that this provision for nominated governorship 
was made on the model of the British Constitution. I 
would like to ask Dr. Ambedkar if His Majesty the king of 
English acts in his discretions in any matter. I am told--I 
may perhaps be wrong--that His Majesty has no 
discretion even in the matter of the selection of his bride. 
That is always done for him by the Prime Minister of 
England. Sir, I know to my cost and to the cost of my Province 
what 'acting by the Governor in the exercise of his 
discretion' means. It was in the year 1942 that a 
Governor acting in his discretion selected his Ministry 
from a minority party and that minority was ultimately 
converted into a majority. I know also, and the House will 
remember too, that the exercise of his discretion by the 
Governor of the Province of Sindh led to the dismissal of 
one of the popular Ministers-- Mr. Allah Bux. Sir, if in 
spite of this experience of ours we are asked to clothe the 
Governors with the powers to act in the exercise of their 
discretion, I am afraid we are still living in the past which 
we all wanted to forget. We have always thought that it is better to be governed 
by the will of the people than to be governed by the will of 
a single person who nominates the Governor who could 
act in his discretion. If this Governor is given the power 
to act in his discretion there is no power on earth to 
prevent him from doing so. He can be a veritable king 
Stork. Furthermore, as the Article says, whenever the 
Governor thinks that he is acting in his discretion 
nowhere can he be questioned. There may be a dispute 
between the Ministers and the Governor about the 
competence of the former to advise the Governor; the 
Governor's voice would prevail and the voice of the 
Ministers would count for nothing. Should we in this age 
countenance such a state of affairs? Should we take 
more then a minute to dismiss the idea of having a 
Governor acting in the exercise of his discretion? It may 
be said that this matter may be considered hereafter. But 
I feel that when once we agree to this provision, it would 
not take long for us to realise that we have made a 
mistake. Why should that be so? Is there any room for 
doubt in this matter? Is there any room for thinking that 
anyone in this country, not to speak of the members of 
the legislature, will ever countenance the idea of giving 
the power to the Governor nominated by a single person 
to act in the exercise of his discretion? I would submit, 
Sir, if my premise is correct, we should not waste a single 
moment in discarding the provisions which empower the 
Governor to act in his discretion. (underlined for emphasis)
I also find in the last clause of this Article that the 
question as to what advice was given by a Minister 
should not be enquired into in any court. I only want to 
make myself clear on this point. There are two functions 
to be discharged by a Governor. In one case he has to act 
on the advice of the Minister and in the other case he has 
to act in the exercise of his discretion. Will the Ministry 
be competent to advise the Governor in matters where he 
can exercise his discretion? If I remember a right, in 
1937 when there was a controversy over this matter 
whether Ministers would be competent to advise the 
Governor in matters where the Governor could use his 
discretion, it was understood that Ministers would be 
competent to advise the Governor in the exercise of his 
discretion also and if the Governor did not accept their 
advice, the Ministers were at liberty to say what advice 
they gave. I do not know that is the intention at present. 
There may be cases where the Ministers are competent to 
give advice to the Governor but the Governor does not 
accept their advice and does something which is 
unpopular. A Governor who is nominated by the Centre 
can afford to be unpopular in the province where he is 
acting as Governor. He may be nervous about public 
opinion if he serves in his own province but he may not 
care about the public opinion in a province where he is 
only acting. Suppose a Governor, instead of acting on the 
advice of his Minister, acts in a different way. If the 
Minister are criticised for anything the Governor does on 
his own, and the Ministers want to prosecute a party for 
such criticism, would not the Ministers have the right to 
say that they advised the Governor to act in a certain way 
but that the Governor acted in a different way? Why 
should we not allow the Ministers the liberty to prosecute 
a paper, a scurrilous paper, a misinformed paper, which 
indulged in such criticism of the Ministers? Why should 
not the Ministers be allowed to say before a court what 
advice they gave to the Governor? I would say, Sir--and I 
may be excused for saying so-- that the best that can be 
said in favour of this Article is that it is a close imitation 
of a similar provision in the Government of India Act, 
1935 , which many Members of this House said, when is 
was published, that they would not touch even with a 
pair of tongs. (underlined for emphasis)
The Honourable Dr. B. R. Ambedkar : Mr. President, Sir, 
I did not think that it would have been necessary for me 
to speak and take part in this debate after what my 
Friend, Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari, had said on this 
amendment of Mr. Kamath, but as my Friend, Pandit 
Kunzru, pointedly asked me the question and demanded 
a reply, I thought that out of courtesy I should say a few 
words. Sir, the main and the crucial question is, should 
the Governor have discretionary powers? It is that 
question which is the main and the principal question. 
After we come to some decision on this question, the 
other question whether the words used in the last part of 
clause (1) of Article 143 should be retained in that Article 
or should be transferred somewhere else could be 
usefully considered. The first thing, therefore, that I 
propose to do so is to devote myself of this question 
which, as I said, is the crucial question. It has been said 
in the course of the debate that the retention of 
discretionary power in the Governor is contrary to 
responsible government in the provinces. It has also been 
said that the retention of discretionary power in the 
Governor smells of the Government of India Act, 1935 , 
which in the main was undemocratic. Now, speaking for 
myself, I have no doubt in my mind that the retention on 
the vesting the Governor with certain discretionary 
powers is in no sense contrary to or in no sense a 
negation of responsible government. I do not wish to rake 
up the point because on this point I can very well satisfy 
the House by reference to the provisions in the 
Constitution of Canada and the Constitution of Australia. 
I do not think anybody in this House would dispute that 
the Canadian system of government is not a fully 
responsible system of government, nor will anybody in 
this House challenge that the Australian Government is 
not a responsible form of government. Having said that, I 
would like to read section 55 of the Canadian 
Constitution. (underlined for emphasis)

Pandit Hirday Nath Kunzru: May I ask Dr. 
Ambedkar when the British North America Act 
was passed? The Honourable Dr. B. R. Ambedkar : That does not 
matter at all. The date of the Act does not matter. 
Shri H. V. Kamath: Nearly a century ago. The Honourable Dr. B.R. Ambedkar : This is my reply. 
The Canadians and the Australians have not found it 
necessary to delete this provision even at this stage. They 
are quite satisfied that the retention of this provision in 
section 55 of the Canadian Act is fully compatible with 
responsible government. If they had left that this 
provision was not compatible with responsible 
government, they have even today, as Dominions, the 
fullest right to abrogate this provision. They have not 
done so. Therefore in reply to Pandit Kunzru I can very 
well say that the Canadians and the Australians do not 
think such a provision is an infringement of responsible 
government. Shri Lokanath Misra (Orissa : General): On a point of 
order, Sir, are we going to have the status of Canada or 
Australia? Or are, we going to have a Republic 
Constitution? The Honourable Dr. B. R. Ambedkar : I could not follow 
what he said. If, as I hope, the House is satisfied that the 
existence of a provision vesting a certain amount of 
discretion in the Governor is not incompatible or 
inconsistent with responsible government, there can be 
no dispute that the retention of this clause is desirable 
and, in my judgment, necessary. The only question that 
arises is.... Pandit Hirday Nath Kunzru : Well, Dr. Ambedkar has 
missed the point of the criticism altogether. The criticism 
is not that in Article 175 some powers might not be 
given to the Governor, the criticism is against vesting the 
Governor with certain discretionary powers of a general 
nature in the Article under discussion. The Honourable Dr. B. R. Ambedkar: I think he has 
misread the Article. I am sorry I do not have the Draft 
Constitution with me. "Except in so far as he is by or 
under this Constitution," those are the words. If the 
words were "except whenever he thinks that he should 
exercise this power of discretion against the wishes or 
against the advice of the ministers", then I think the 
criticism made by my honourable Friend Pandit Kunzru 
would have been valid. The clause is a very limited 
clause; it says: "except in so far as he is by or under this 
Constitution". Therefore, Article 143 will have to be read 
in conjunction with such other Articles which specifically 
reserve the power to the Governor. It is not a general 
clause giving the Governor power to disregard the advice 
of his ministers in any matter in which he finds he ought 
to disregard. There, I think, lies the fallacy of the 
argument of my honourable Friend, Pandit Kunzru. 
Therefore, as I said, having stated that there is nothing 
incompatible with the retention of the discretionary 
power in the Governor in specified cases with the system 
of responsible Government, the only question that arises 
is, how should we provide for the mention of this 
discretionary power? It seems to me that there are three 
ways by which this could be done. One way is to omit the 
words from Article 143 as my honourable Friend, Pandit 
Kunzru, and others desire and to add to such Articles as 
175, or 188 or such other provisions which the House 
may hereafter introduce, vesting the Governor with the 
discretionary power, saying notwithstanding Article 143 , 
the Governor shall have this or that power. The other way 
would be to say in Article 143 , "that except as provided in 
Articles so and so specifically mentioned-Article 175, 
188, 200 or whatever they are". But the point I am trying 
to submit to the House is that the House cannot escape 
from mentioning in some manner that the Governor shall 
have discretion. Now the matter which seems to find some kind of favour 
with my honourable Friend, Pandit Kunzru and those 
who have spoken in the same way is that the words 
should be omitted from here and should be transferred 
somewhere else or that the specific Articles should be 
mentioned in Article 143. It seems to me that this is a 
mere method of drafting. There is no question of 
substance and no question of principle. I personally 
myself would be quite willing to amend the last portion of 
clause (1) of Article 143 if I knew at this stage what are 
the provisions that this Constituent Assembly proposes 
to make with regard to the vesting of the Governor with 
discretionary power. My difficulty is that we have not as 
yet come either to Articles 175 or 188 nor have we 
exhausted all the possibilities of other provisions being 
made, vesting the Governor with discretionary power. If I 
knew that, I would very readily agree to amend Article 
143 and to mention the specific, but that cannot be done 
now. Therefore, my submission is that no wrong could be 
done if the words as they stand in Article 143 remains as 
they are. They are certainly not inconsistent. 
Shri H. V. Kamath: Is there no material difference 
between Article 61(1) relating to the President vis-a-vis 
his ministers and this ? The Honourable Dr. B. R. Ambedkar : Of course there is 
because we do not want to vest the President with any 
discretionary power. Because the provincial Governments 
are required to work in subordination to the Central 
Government, and therefore, in order to see that they do 
act in subordination to the Central Government the 
Governor will reserve certain things in order to give the 
President the opportunity to see that the rules under 
which the provincial Governments are supposed to act 
according to the Constitution or in subordination to the 
Central Government are observed. Shri H. V. Kamath: Will it not be better to specify certain 
Articles in the Constitution with regard to discretionary 
power, instead of conferring general discretionary powers 
like this? The Honourable Dr. B. R. Ambedkar : I said so, that I 
would very readily do it. I am prepared to introduce 
specific Articles, if I knew what are the Articles which the 
House is going to incorporate in the Constitution 
regarding vesting of the discretionary powers in the 
Governor. Shri H. V. Kamath: Why not hold it over? The Honourable Dr. B. R. Ambedkar : We can revise. This 
House is perfectly competent to revise Article 143. If after 
going through the whole of it, the House feels that the 
better way would be to mention the Articles specifically, it 
can do so. It is purely a logomachy. Shri H. V. Kamath: Why go backwards and forwards? 
Mr. President: The question is: The amendment was negatived. Mr. President: The question is: The amendment was negatived. Mr. President: The question is: The motion was adopted. Article 143 was added to the Constitution.
Constituent Assembly met on 2nd June, 1949 ARTICLE 153 Mr. President: Article 153 is for the consideration of the 
House. With regard to the very first amendment, No. 2321, as we had 
a similar amendment with regard to Article 69 which was 
discussed at great length the other day, does Professor Shah 
wish to move it? Prof. K. T. Shah: If I am in order I would like to move it. But if 
you rule it out, it cannot be moved. Mr. President: It is not a question of ruling it out. If it is 
moved, there will be a repetition of the argument once put 
forward. Prof. K. T. Shah: I agree that this is a similar amendment, but 
not identical. Mr. President: I have not said it is identical. 
Prof. K. T. Shah: All right. I do not move it, Sir. 
Mr. President: Amendment Nos. 2322, 2323, 2324, 2325 and 
2326 are not moved, as they are verbal amendments. 
Prof. K. T. Shah: As my amendment No. 2327 is part of the 
amendment not moved, I do not move it. Mr. President: Then amendments Nos. 2328, 2329 and 2330 
also go. Amendment No. 2331 is not moved. Mr. Mohd. Tahir (Bihar: Muslim): Mr. President, I move: In this clause certain powers have been given to the Governor 
to summon, prorogue or dissolve the Legislative Assembly. 
Now I want that some reasons may be enumerated which 
necessitate the dissolution of a House. I find that to clause (3) 
of Article 153 there is an amendment of Dr. Ambedkar in 
which he wants to omit the clause which runs thus: "(3) the 
functions of the Governor under sub-clause (a) and (c) of 
clause (2) of this Article shall be exercised by him in his 
discretion." I, on the other hand, want that some reasons 
should be given for the dissolution. Nowhere in the 
Constitution are we enumerating the conditions and 
circumstances under which the House can be dissolved. If we 
do not put any condition, there might be difficulties. 
Supposing in some province there is a party in power with 
whose views the some reasons to dissolve the Assembly and 
make arrangements for fresh elections. If such things happen 
there will be no justification for a dissolution of the House. 
Simply because a Governor does not subscribe to the views of 
the majority party the Assembly should not be dissolved. To 
avoid such difficulties I think it is necessary that some 
conditions and circumstances should be enumerated in the 
Constitution under which alone the Governor can dissolve the 
House. There should be no other reason for dissolution of the 
House except mal-administration or instability of the Ministry 
and its unfitness to work. Therefore this matter should be 
considered and we should provide for certain conditions and 
circumstances under which the Governor can dissolve the 
House. (underlined for emphasis)
Mr. President: The next amendment, No. 2333, is not moved. 
Dr. Ambedkar may move amendment No. 2334. 
The Honourable Dr.B.R. Ambedkar: Sir, I move: This clause is apparently inconsistent with the scheme for a 
Constitutional Governor. Mr. President: Amendment No. 2335 is the same as the 
amendment just moved. Amendment No. 2336 is not moved. 
Shri H.V. Kamath: Mr. President, Sir, may I have your leave to 
touch upon the meaning or interpretation of the amendment 
that has just been moved by my learned Friend, Dr. 
Ambedkar? If this amendment is accepted by the House it 
would do away with the discretionary powers given to the 
Governor. There is, however, sub-clause (b). Am I to 
understand that so far as proroguing of the House is 
concerned, the Governor acts in consultation with the Chief 
Minister or the Cabinet and therefore no reference to it is 
necessary in clause (3)? Mr. President: He wants clause (3) to be deleted. 
Shri H.V. Kamath: In clause (3) there is references to sub-
clauses (a) and (c). I put (a) and (b) on a par with each other. 
The Governor can summon the Houses or either House to 
meet at such time and place as he thinks fit. Then I do not 
know why the act of prorogation should be on a different level. 
Mr. President: That is exactly what is not being done now. All 
the three are being put on a par. Shri H. V. Kamath: Then I would like to refer to another 
aspect of this deletion. That is the point which you were good 
enough to raise in this House the other day, that is to say, 
that the President of the Union shall have a Council of 
Ministers to aid and advise him in the exercise of his 
functions. The corresponding Article here is 143: Sir, as you pointed out in connection with an Article relating 
to the President vis-a-vis his Council of Ministers, is there any 
provision in the Constitution which binds the Governor to 
accept or to follow always the advice tendered to him by his 
Council of Ministers? Power is being conferred upon him 
under this Article to dissolve the Legislative Assembly. This is 
a fairly serious matter in all democracies. There have been 
instances in various democracies, even in our own provinces 
sometimes, when a Cabinet seeking to gain time against a 
motion of censure being brought against them, have sought 
the Governor's aid, in getting the Assembly prorogued. This of 
course is not so serious as dissolution of the Legislative 
Assembly. Here the Article blindly says, "subject to the 
provisions of this Article." As regards clause (1) of the Article, I 
am glad that our Parliament and our other Legislatures would 
meet more often and for longer periods. I hope that will be 
considered and will be given effect to at the appropriate time. 
Clause (2) of this Article is important because it deals with the 
dissolution of the Assembly by the Governor of a State and in 
view of the fact that there is no specific provision-of course it 
may be understood and reading between the lines Dr. 
Ambedkar might say that the substance of it is there, but we 
have not yet decided even to do away with the discretionary 
powers of the Governor to accept the advice tendered to him 
by his Council of Ministers, there is a lacuna in the 
Constitution. Notwithstanding this, we are conferring upon 
him the power to dissolve the Legislative Assembly, without 
even mentioning that he should consult or be guided by the 
advice of his Ministers in this regard. I am constrained to say 
that this power which we are conferring upon the Governor 
will be out of tune with the new set-up that we are going to 
create in the country unless we bind the Governor to accept 
the advice tendered to him by his Minister. I hope that this 
Article will be held over and the Drafting Committee will bring 
forward another motion later on revising or altering this Article 
in a suitable manner. Shri Gopal Narain (United Provinces: General): Mr. President, 
Sir, before speaking on this, I wish to lodge a complaint and 
seek redress from you. I am one of those who have attended all 
the meetings of this Assembly and sit from beginning to the 
end, but my patience has been exhausted now. I find that 
there are a few honourable Members of this House who have 
monopolised all the debates, who must speak on every Article, 
on every amendment and every amendment to amendment. I 
know, Sir, that you have your own limitations and you cannot 
stop them under the rules, though I see from your face that 
also feel sometimes bored, but you cannot stop them. I 
suggest to you, Sir, that some time-limit may be imposed upon 
some Members. They should not be allowed to speak for more 
than two or three minutes. So far as this Article is concerned, 
it has already taken fifteen minutes, though there is nothing 
new in it, and it only provides discretionary powers to the 
Governor. Still a Member comes and oppose it. I seek redress 
from you, but if you cannot do this, then you must allow us at 
least to sleep in our seats or do something else than sit in this 
House. Sir, I support this Article. Mr. President: I am afraid I am helpless in this matter. I leave 
it to the good sense of the Members. Shri Brajeshwar Prasad: (Rose to speak). 
Mr. President: Do you wish to speak after this? (Laughter). 
The Honourable Dr. B.R. Ambedkar: I do not think I need 
reply. This matter has been debated quite often. 
Mr. President: Then I will put the amendments to vote. 
The question is: The amendment was negatived. Mr. President: The question is: The amendment was adopted. Mr. President: The question is: The motion was adopted. Article 153 , as amended, was added to the Constitution

Constituent Assembly met on 3rd August, 1949 Article 278. Provisions in case of Failure of Constitutional 
machinery in States. xxx			xxx			xxx			xxx
Pandit Hirday Nath Kunzru (United Provinces: General): Mr. 
President, I am really very glad that the framers of the 
Constitution have at last accepted the view that Article 188 should not find a place in our Constitution. That Article was 
inconsistent with the establishment of responsible 
Government in the provinces and the new position of the 
Governor. It is satisfactory that this has at last been 
recognised and that the Governor is not going to be invested 
with the power that Article 188 proposed to confer on him. It 
is, however, now proposed to achieve the purpose of Article 
188 and the old Article 278 by a revision of Article 278. We 
have today to direct our attention not merely to Articles 278 and 278-A, but also to Article 277-A. This Article lays down 
that it will be the duty of the Union to ensure that the 
government of every State is carried on in accordance with the 
provisions of this Constitution. It does not merely authorise 
the Central Government to protect the State against external 
aggression or internal Commotion; it goes much further and 
casts on it the duty of seeing that the Government of a 
province is carried on in accordance with the provision of this 
Constitution. What exactly do these words mean? This should 
be clearly explained since the power to ensure that the 
provincial constitutions are being worked in a proper way 
makes a considerable addition to the powers that the Central 
Government will enjoy to protect a State against external 
aggression or internal disturbance. I think, Sir, that it will be 
desirable in this connection to consider Articles 275 and 276 , 
for their provisions have vital bearing on the s that have been 
placed before us. Article 275 says that, when the President is 
satisfied that a grave emergency exists threatening the 
security of India or of any part of India, then he may make a 
declaration to that effect. Such a declaration will cease to 
operate at the end of two months, unless before the expiry of 
this period, it has been approved by resolutions passed by 
both Houses of Parliament. If it is so approved, then, the 
declaration of emergency may remain in force indefinitely, that 
is, so long as the Executive desires it to remain in force, or so 
long as Parliament allows it to remain in force. So long as the 
Proclamation operates, under Article 276 , the Central 
Government will be empowered to issue directions to the 
government of any province as regards the manner in which 
its executive authority should be exercised and the Central 
Parliament will be empowered to make laws with regard to any 
matter even though it may not be included in the Union List. It 
will thus have the power of passing laws on subjects included 
in the State List. Further, the Central Legislature will be able 
to confer powers and impose duties on the officers and 
authorities of the Government of India in regard to any matter 
in respect of which it is competent to pass legislation. Now the 
effect of these two Articles is to enable the Central Government 
to intervene when owing to external or internal causes the 
peace and tranquility of India or any part of it is threatened. 
Further, if misgovernment in a province creates so much 
dissatisfaction as to endanger the public peace, the 
Government of India will have sufficient power, under these 
Articles to deal with the situation. What more is needed then 
in order to enable the Central Government to see that the 
government of a province is carried on in a proper manner. It 
is obvious that the framers of the Constitution arc thinking 
not of the peace and tranquility of the country, of the 
maintenance of law and order but of good government in 
provinces. They will intervene not merely to protect provinces 
against external aggression and internal disturbances but also 
to ensure good government within their limits. In other words, 
the Central Government will have the power to intervene to 
protect the electors against themselves. If there is 
mismanagement or inefficiency or corruption in a province, I 
take it that under Articles 277 , 278 and 278-A taken together 
the Central Government will have the power. I do not use the 
word 'President' because he will be guided by the advice of his 
Ministers to take the government of that province into its own 
hands. My honourable Friend, Mr. Santhanam gave some 
instances in order to show how a breakdown might occur in a 
province even when there was no external aggression, no war 
and no internal disturbance. He gave one very unfortunate 
illustration to explain his point. He asked us to suppose that a 
number of factions existed in a province which prevented the 
government of that province from being carried on in 
accordance with the provisions of this Act i.e., I suppose 
efficiently. He placed before us his view that in such a case a 
dissolution of the provincial legislature should take place so 
that it might be found out whether the electors were capable of 
applying a proper remedy to the situation. If, however, in the 
new legislature the old factions-I suppose by factions he meant 
parties-re-appeared, then the Central Government in his 
opinion would be justified in taking over the administration of 
the province. Sir, if there is a multiplicity of parties in any 
province we may not welcome it, but is that fact by itself 
sufficient to warrant the Central Government's Interference in 
provincial administration? There are many parties in some 
countries making ministries unstable. Yet the Governments of 
those countries are carried on without any danger to their 
security or existence. It may be a matter of regret if too many 
parties exist in a province and they are not able to work 
together or arrive at an agreement on important matters in the 
interests of their province; but however regrettable this may 
be, it will not justify in my opinion, the Central Government in 
intervening and making itself jointly with Parliament 
responsible for the government of the province concerned. As I 
have already said, if mismanagement in a province takes place 
to such an extent as to create a grave situation in India or in 
any part of it, then the Central Government will have the right 
to intervene under Articles 275 and 276. Is it right to go 
further than this? We hear serious complaints against the 
governments of many provinces at present, but it has not been 
suggested so far that it will be in the ultimate interests of the 
country and the provinces concerned that the Central 
Government should set aside the provincial governments and 
practically administer the provinces concerned, as if they were 
Centrally administered areas. It may be said, Sir, that the 
provincial governments at present have the right to intervene 
when a municipality or District Board is guilty of gross and 
persistent mal-administration, but a municipality or a District 
Board is too small to be compared for a moment in any respect 
with a province. The very size of a province and the number of 
electors in it place it on a footing of its own. If responsible 
government is to be maintained, then the electors must be 
made to feel that the power to apply the proper remedy when 
misgovernment occurs rests with them. They should know 
that it depends upon them to choose new representatives who 
will be more capable of acting in accordance with their best 
interests. If the Central Government and Parliament are given 
the power that Articles 277 , 278 and 278-A read together 
propose to confer on them, there is a serious danger that 
whenever there is dissatisfaction in a province with its 
government, appeals will be made to the Central Government 
to come to its rescue. The provincial electors will be able to 
throw their responsibility on the shoulders of the Central 
Government. Is it right that such a tendency should be 
encouraged? Responsible Government is the most difficult 
form of government. It requires patience, and it requires the 
courage to take risks. If we have neither the patience nor the 
courage that is needed, our Constitution will virtually be still-
born. I think, therefore, Sir, that the Articles that we are 
discussing are not needed. Articles 275 and 276 give the 
Central Executive and Parliament all the power that can 
reasonably be conferred on them in order to enable them to 
see that law and order do not break down in the country, or 
that misgovernment in any part of India is not carried to such 
lengths as to jeopardise the maintenance of law and order. It is 
not necessary to go any further. The excessive caution that the 
framers of the Constitution seem to be desirous of exercising 
will, in my opinion, be inconsistent with the spirit of the 
Constitution, and be detrimental, gravel detrimental, to the 
growth of a sense of responsibility among the provincial 
electors. Before concluding, Sir, I should like to draw the attention of 
the House to the Government of India Act, 1935 as adopted by 
the India (Provisional Constitution) Order, 1947. Section 93 which formed an important part of this Act as originally 
passed, has been omitted from the Act as adopted in 1947, 
and I suppose it was omitted because it was thought to be 
inconsistent with the new order of things. My honourable 
Friend Mr. Santhanam said that in the Government of India 
Act, 1935 , the Governor who was allowed to act in his 
discretion would not have been responsible to any authority. 
That, I think, is a mistake I may point out that the Governor, 
in respect of all powers that he could exercise in his discretion, 
was subject to the authority of the Governor-General and 
through him and the Secretary of State for India, to the British 
Parliament. The only difference now is that our executive, 
instead of being responsible to an electorate 5,000 miles away, 
will be responsible to the Indian electors. This is an important 
fact that must be clearly recognised, but I do not think that 
the lapse of two years since the adapted Government of India 
Act, 1935 , came into force, warrants the acceptance of the 
Articles now before us. The purpose of section 93 was political. 
Its object was to see that the Constitution was not used in 
such away as to compel the British Government to part with 
more power than it was prepared to give to the people of India. 
No such antagonism between the people and the Government 
of India can exist in future. Whatever differences there may be, 
will arise in regard to administrative or financial or economic 
questions. Suppose a province in respect of economic 
problems, takes a more radical line than the Government of 
India would approve. I think this will be no reason for the 
interference of the Government of India. 
Shri T. T. Krishnamachari (Madras: General): What happens if 
the provincial government deliberately refuses to obey the 
provisions of the Constitution and impedes the Central 
Government taking action under Article 275 and 276? Pandit Hirday Nath Kunzru: No province can do it. It cannot 
because it would be totally illegal. But if such a situation 
arises the Central Government will have sufficient power 
under Articles 275 and 276 to intervene at once. It will have 
adequate power to take any action that it likes. It can ask its 
own officers to take certain duties on themselves and if those 
officers are impeded in the discharge, of their duties, or, if 
force is used against them-to take an extreme case-the Central 
Government will be able to meet such a challenge effectively, 
without our accepting the Articles now before us. I should like 
the House to consider the point raised by my honourable 
Friend Mr. Krishnamachari very carefully. I have thought over 
such a situation in my own mind, over and over again, and 
every time I have come to the conclusion that Articles 275 and 276 will enable the Government of India to meet effectively 
such a manifestation oil recalcitrance, such a rebellious 
attitude as that supposed by Mr. Krishnamachari. In such a 
grave situation, the Government of India will have the power to 
take effective action under Articles 275 and 276. What need is 
there then for the Articles that have been placed before us? 
Sir, one of the speakers said that we should not be legalistic. 
Nobody has discussed the Articles moved by Dr. Ambedkar in 
a legalistic spirit. I certainly have not discussed it in a narrow, 
legal way. I am considering the question from a broad political 
point of view from the point of view of the best interests of the 
country and the realization by provincial electors of the 
important fact that they and they alone are responsible for the 
government of their province. They must understand that it 
rests with them to decide how it should be carried on. 
Sir, even if the framers of the Constitution are not satisfied 
with the arguments that I have put forward and want that the 
Central Government should have more power than that given 
to it by Articles 275 and 276 , I should ask them to pause and 
consider whether there was not a better way of approaching 
this question for the time being. In view of the discussions that 
have taken place in this House and outside, it seems to me 
that there is a respectable body of opinion in favour of not 
making the Constitution rigid, that is, there are many people 
who desire that for some time to come amendments to the 
Constitution should be allowed to be made in the same way as 
those of ordinary laws are. I think that the Prime Minister in a 
speech that he made here some months ago expressed the 
same view. If this idea is accepted by the House, if say for five 
years the Constitution can be amended in the same way as an 
ordinary law, then we shall have sufficient time to see how the 
Provinces develop and how their government is carried on. If 
experience shows that the position is so unfortunate as to 
require that the Central Government should make itself 
responsible not merely for the safety of every Province but also 
for its good government, then you can come forward with every 
justification for an amendment of the Constitution. But I do 
not see that there is any reason why the House should agree 
to the Articles placed before us today by Dr. Ambedkar. 
Sir, I oppose these Articles. Shri L. Krishnaswami Bharathi (Madras: General): Sir, I felt 
impelled by a sense of duty to place a certain point of view 
before the House, or else I would not have come before the 
mike. I feel the need for a brief speech. I accord my 
wholehearted support to the new Articles moved by Dr. 
Ambedkar, but I am not at all convinced of the wisdom of the 
Drafting Committee in deleting Article 188. It is this point of 
view which I want to emphasise. Sir, that Article has a history behind it. There was a full-dress 
debate on it for two days when eminent Premiers participated 
in it. We must understand what Article 188 is for. It is not for 
normal conditions. It is in a state of grave emergency that a 
Governor was, under this Article, invested with some powers. I 
may remind the House of the debate where it was Mr. 
Munshi's amendment which ultimately formed part of Article 188. In moving the amendment Dr. Ambedkar said that no 
useful purpose would be served by allowing the Governor to 
suspend the Constitution and that the President must come 
into the picture even earlier. Article 188 provides for such a 
possibility. It merely says that when the Governor is satisfied 
that there is such a grave menace to peace and tranquility he 
can suspend the Constitution. It is totally wrong to imagine 
that he was given the power to suspend the Constitution for a 
duration of two weeks. Clause (3) provides that it is his duty to 
forthwith communicate his Proclamation to the President and 
the President will become seized of the matter under Article 188. That is an important point which seems lost sight of. The 
Governor has to immediately communicate his Proclamation. 
The Article was necessitated because it was convincingly put 
forward by certain Premiers. There may be a possibility that it 
is not at all possible to contact the President. Do you rule out 
the possibility of a state of inability to contact the Central 
Government? Time is of the essence of the matter. By the time 
you contact and get the permission, many things would have 
happened and the delay would have defeated the very purpose 
before us. The, honourable Mr. Kher said that it is not 
necessary to keep this Article because we have all sorts of 
communications available. In Bombay I know of instances 
where we have not been able to contact the Governor for not 
less than twenty-four hours What is the provision under Article 278? The Governor of Madras says there is a danger to 
peace and tranquility. Assuming for a moment that the 
communications are all right, the President cannot act. He has 
to convene the Cabinet; the members of the Cabinet may not 
be readily available; and by the time he convenes the Cabinet 
and gets their consent the purpose of the Article would be 
defeated. Therefore, it was only with a view to see in such a 
contingency where the Governor finds, that delay will defeat 
the very objective, that Article 188 was provided for. I see no 
reason why the Drafting Committee in their wisdom ruled out 
such a possibility. It is no doubt true that the Article was 
framed two years ago, but since those two years many things 
have happened that show that there is urgent need for the 
man on the spot to decide and act quickly so that a 
catastrophe may be prevented. Today there is an open 
defiance of authority everywhere and that defiance is well-
organised. Before the act, they cut off the telephone wires, as 
they did in the Calcutta Exchange. That is what is happening 
in many parts of the country. Therefore, when there is a coup 
d'etat it is just possible they will cut off communications and 
difficulties may arise. It is only to provide for this possibility 
that the Governor is given these powers. I do not think there 
will be any fool of a Governor who will, if there is time, fail to 
inform the President. I would like to have an explanation as to 
why this fool-proof arrangement has been changed and why 
we have become suspicious that the Governor will act in a 
wrong manner. According to the provision, he has to forthwith 
communicate to the President and the President may say, 
"Well, I am not convinced; cancel it." You must take into 
consideration that the Governor will be responsible, acting 
wisely and in order to save the country from disaster. The 
President comes into the picture directly, because the 
Governor has to communicate the matter forthwith according 
to clause (3) of Article 188. As Mr. President said, it is sheer 
commonsense that the man on the spot should be given the 
powers to deal with the situation, so that it may not 
deteriorate. I am not at all convinced of the wisdom of the 
change. The provision as now proposed is not as fool-proof as 
it ought to be. (underlined for emphasis) 
Besides, I would like to have an explanation as to why the 
Drafting Committee goes out of the way to delete the provision 
which was considered and accepted by the House previously. 
In my view it is improper, because the House had decided it. If 
we appoint a Drafting Committee, we direct them to draft on 
the basis of the decisions taken by us. Is this the way in which 
they should draft? Their duty was to scrutinise the decisions 
already arrived at and then draft on that basis. Therefore, I 
would like to have an explanation ----a convincing 
explanation---as to what happened within these two years 
which has made the members of the Drafting Committee 
delete this wholesome, healthy and useful provision. 
Mr. Naziruddin Ahmad: Mr. President, Sir, I think that the 
amendments moved by Dr. Ambedkar constitute startling and 
revolutionary changes in the Constitution. I submit a radical 
departure has been made from our own decisions. We took 
important decisions in this House as to the principles of the 
Constitution and we adopted certain definite principles and 
Resolutions and the Draft Constitution was prepared in 
accordance with them. Now, everything has to be given up. Not 
only the Draft Constitution has been given up, but the official 
amendments which were submitted by Members of the House 
within the prescribed period which are printed in the official 
blue book have also been given up. During the last recess 
some additional amendments to those amendments were 
printed and circulated. Those have also been given up. I beg to 
point out that all the amendments and amendments to 
amendments which have been moved today are to be found for 
the first time only on the amendment lists for this week which 
have been circulated only within a day or two from today. So 
serious and radical changes should not have been introduced 
at the last minute when there is not sufficient time for slow 
people like us to see what is happening and whether these 
changes really fit in with our original decisions and with other 
parts of the Constitution as a whole. I submit that the Drafting 
Committee has been drifting from our original decisions, from 
the Draft Constitution and from our original amendments. It 
would perhaps be more fitting to call the Drafting Committee 
"the Drifting Committee". I submit that the deletion of Article 
188 is a very important and serious departure from principles 
which the House solemnly accepted before. Some honourable 
Members who usually take the business of the House 
seriously have attempted to support these changes on the 
ground that some emergency powers are highly necessary. I 
agree with them that emergency powers are necessary and I 
also agree that serious forces of disorder are working in a 
systematic manner in the country and drastic powers are 
necessary. But what I fail to appreciate is the attempt to take 
away the normal power of the Governor or the Ruler of a State 
to intervene and pass emergency orders. It is that which is the 
most serious change. In fact, originally the Governor was to be 
elected on adult suffrage of the province, but now we have 
made a serious departure that the Governor is now to be 
appointed by the President. This is the first blow to Provincial 
Autonomy. Again, we have deprived the Upper Houses in the 
States of real powers; not merely have we taken away all 
effective powers from Upper Houses in the Provinces, but also 
made it impossible for them to function properly and 
effectively. We are now going to take away the right of the 
Ministers of a State and the Members of the Legislatures and 
especially the people at large from solving their own problems. 
As soon as we deprive the Governor or a Ruler of his right to 
interfere in grave emergencies, at once we deprive the elected 
representatives and the Ministers from having any say in the 
matter. As soon as the right to initiate emergency measures is 
vested exclusively in the President, from that moment you 
absolve the Ministers and Members of the local legislatures 
entirely from any responsibility. The effect of this would mean 
that their moral strength and moral responsibility will be 
seriously undermined. It is the aspect of the problem to which 
I wish to draw the attention of the House. (underlined for emphasis)
This aspect of the matter, I submit, has not received sufficient 
or adequate consideration in this House. If there is trouble in 
a State, the initial responsibility for quelling it must rest with 
the Ministers. If they fail, then the right to initiate emergency 
measures must lie initially with the Governor or the Ruler. If 
you do not allow this, the result would be that the local 
legislature and the Ministers would have responsibility of 
maintaining law and order without any powers. That would 
easily and inevitably develop a kind of irresponsibility. Any 
outside interference with the right of a State to give and 
ensure their own good Government will not only receive no 
sympathy from the Ministers and the members, but the action 
of the President will be jeered at, tabooed and boycotted by the 
people of the State, the Members of the Legislature and the 
Ministers themselves. xxx				xxx			xxx			xxx
Pandit Thakur Das Bhargava : I think the constitutional 
machinery cannot be regarded ordinarily to have failed unless 
the dissolution powers are exercised by the Governor under section 153 . Xxx				xxx			xxx			xxx
I think we are drifting, perhaps unconsciously, towards a 
dictatorship. Democracy will flourish only in a democratic 
atmosphere and under democratic conditions. Let people 
commit mistakes and learn by experience. Experience is a 
great tutor. The arguments to the contrary which we have 
heard today were the old discarded arguments of the British 
bureaucracy. The British said that they must have overriding 
powers, that we cannot manage our affairs and that they only 
knew how to manage our affairs. They said also that if we 
mismanaged things they will supersede the constitution and 
do what they thought fit. What has been our reply to this? It 
was that "Unless you make us responsible for our acts, we can 
never learn the business of government. If we mismanage the 
great constitutional machinery, we must be made responsible 
for our acts. We must be given the opportunity to remedy the 
defects". This argument of ours is being forgotten. The old 
British argument that they must intervene in petty Provincial 
matters is again being revived and adopted by the very 
opponents of that argument. In fact, very respected Members 
of this House are adopting almost unconsciously the old 
argument of the British Government. I submit that even the 
hated British did not go so far as we do. I submit our reply to 
that will be the same as our respected leaders gave to the 
British Government. I submit, therefore, that too much 
interference by the Centre will create unpleasant reactions in 
the States. If you abolish provincial autonomy altogether that 
would be logical. But to make them responsible while making 
them powerless would be not a proper thing to do. (underlined for emphasis)
Then I come to the proviso to clause (1) of Article 278. It 
safeguards against the rights of the High Court in dealing with 
matters within their special jurisdiction. A Proclamation of 
emergency will not deprive the High Court of its jurisdiction. 
That is the effect of this proviso. But it conveniently forgets the 
existence of the Supreme Court. While it takes care to 
guarantee the rights of the High Courts against the 
Proclamation, the rights of the Supreme Court are not 
guaranteed. I only express the hope that the absence of any 
mention of the Supreme Court in the proviso will not affect the 
powers of that Court. Shri T. T. Krisnamachari: It is not necessary because the 
Central Government is subject to the jurisdiction of the 
Supreme Court under all conditions. (Underlined for emphasis)
Mr. Naziruddin Ahmad: As the honourable Member himself 
has on a previous occasion said, this Constitution would be 
the lawyers' heaven. Speaking from experience, I think that 
this proviso will lead to much legal battle, and lawyers alone 
will be benefited by this. I wish that the interpretation put 
forward by Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari is right, but it is not 
apparent to me. When we come to clause (2) of Article 278 , in 
this clause it is stated that any such proclamation may be 
revoked or varied by a subsequent proclamation. (underlined for emphasis)

Constituent Assembly met on 4th August 1949 
The Constituent Assembly of India met in the Constitution 
Hall, New Delhi, at Nine of the Clock, Mr. President (The 
Honourable Dr. Rajendra Prasad) in the Chair. Articles 188 , 277-A and 278-continued. xxx				xxx			xxx			xxx
Then coming to proposed Article 278-A sub-clause (a) and (b) 
of clause (1) are new. Clause (a) is new and (b) is 
consequential. The new point which has been introduced is 
also revolutionary. Instead of allowing the Provincial 
Legislatures to have their say on the emergency legislation and 
thereby giving the Provincial Assemblies an opportunity to 
assess the guilt or innocence of the Ministers or other person 
or to give a verdict, the responsibility is thrown on the 
Parliament. 'That would again, as I submitted yesterday, go to 
make the Central Government and the Parliament unpopular 
in the State concerned. It may happen that Provincial 
Ministers and others are guilty of mismanagement and 
misgovernment; but if we do not allow the Provincial 
Assemblies to sit in judgment over them, the result would be 
that guilty or innocent persons, lawbreakers and law-abiding 
persons, good or bad people in the State should all be 
combined. The result would be that those for whose misdeeds 
the Emergency Powers would be necessary, would be made so 
many heroes; they would be lionised, and the object of 
teaching them a lesson would be frustrated. The Centre would 
be unpopular on the ground that it is poking its nose 
unnecessarily and mischievously into their domestic affairs. 
Then, Sir, in sub-clause (c) of clause (1) of this Article 278-A, 
the President is expected to authorize and sanction the Budget 
as the head of the Parliament. This would be an encroachment 
on the domestic budget of the Provinces and the States. That 
would be regarded with a great deal of dis-favour. It would 
have been better to allow the Governor or the Ruler to function 
and allow their own budget to be managed in their own way. 
Subventions may be granted but that expenditure should not 
be directly managed by the President. Coming to clause (d) there is an exception in favour of 
Ordinances under Article 102 to the effect that "the President 
may issue Ordinances except when the Houses of Parliament 
are in session". The sub-clause is misplaced in the present 
Article. There is an appropriate place where Ordinances are 
dealt with. Sub-clause (d) should find a place among the group 
of Articles dealing with Ordinances and not here. This is again 
the result of hasty drafting. These are some of the difficulties that have been created. 
It is not here necessary to deal with them in detail. The most 
important consequence of this encroachment on the States 
sphere would be that we would be helping the communist 
techniques. Their technique is that by creating trouble in a 
Province or a State, they would partially paralyse the 
administration and thereby force the Emergency Powers. 
Then, they will try to make those drastic powers unpopular. 
What is more, they will make the guilty Ministers and guilty 
officers heroes. The legislature of the State would, as I have 
submitted, be deprived of the right of discussion. If the 
President takes upon himself the responsibility of emergency 
powers, then his action, I suppose, cannot be discussed in the 
States legislatures. The only way of ventilating Provincial and 
States grievances is to allow the Provinces and the States to 
find out the guilty persons and hold them up to ridicule and 
contempt and that would be entirely lost. This would have the 
effect of bringing all sorts of people good and bad, law-
breaking and law-abiding persons into one congregation. The 
Centre will be unpopular and the guilty States would be 
regarded as so many martyrs and the Centre would be flouted 
and would be forced to use more and more Emergency Powers 
and would be caught in a vicious circle. Then, the States will 
gradually get dissatisfied and they will show centrifugal 
tendencies and this will be reflected in the general elections to 
the House of the People at the Centre. The result would be 
that very soon these very drastic powers calculated to 
strengthen the hands of the Centre will be rather a source of 
weakness in no distant time. (underlined for emphasis)
xxx					xxx				xxx
There is an implication in Article 278 which is something 
like saying, that you must overcome evil by good and meet 
lawlessness with law. The President has no powers to meet 
undemocratic forces in the country except in a cratic manner. 
It is like saying that the forces of evil must be overcome by the 
forces of non-violence and good. Practical statesmen and law-
makers will not accept this proposition easily. Xxx					xxx					xxx
Mr. President: Dr. Ambedkar. The Honourable Dr. B. R. Ambedkar (Bombay : General) : Sir, 
although these Articles have given rise to a debate which has 
lasted for nearly five hours, I do not think that there is 
anything which has emerged from this debate which requires 
me to modify my attitude towards the principles that are 
embodied in these Articles. I will therefore not detain the 
House much longer with a detailed reply of any kind. 
I would first of all like to touch for a minute on the 
amendment suggested by my Friend Mr. Kamath in Article 
277-A. His amendment was that the word "and" should be 
substituted by the word "or". I do not think that that is 
necessary, because the word "and" in the context in which it is 
placed is both conjunctive as well as disjunctive, which can be 
read in both ways, "and" or "or", as the occasion may require. 
I, therefore, do not think that it is necessary for me to accept 
that amendment, although I appreciate his intention in 
making the amendment. The second amendment to which I should like to refer is that 
moved by my Friend Prof. Saksena, in which he has proposed 
that one of the things which the President may do under the 
Proclamation is to dissolve the legislature. I think that is his 
amendment in substance. I entirely agree that that is one of 
the things which should be provided for because the people of 
the province ought to be given an opportunity to set matters 
right-by reference to the legislature. But I find that that is 
already covered by sub-clause (a) of clause (1) of Article 278 , 
because sub-clause (a) proposes that the President may 
assume to himself the powers exercisable by the Governor or 
the ruler. One of the powers which is vested and which is 
exercisable by the Governor is to dissolve the House. 
Consequently, when the President issues a Proclamation and 
assumes these powers under sub-clause (a), that power of 
dissolving the legislature and holding a now election will be 
automatically transferred to the President which powers no 
doubt the President will exercise on the advice of his 
Ministers. Consequently my submission is that the proposition 
enunciated by my Friend Prof. Saksena is already covered by 
sub-clause (a), it is implicit in it and there is therefore no 
necessity for making any express provision of that character. 
Now I come to the remarks made by my Friend Pandit Kunzru. 
The first point, if I remember correctly, which was raised by 
him was that the power to take over the administration when 
the constitutional machinery fails is a new thing, which is not 
to be found in any constitution. I beg to differ from him and I 
would like to draw his attention to the Article contained in 
the American Constitution, where the duty of the United 
States is definitely expressed to be to maintain the Republican 
form of the Constitution. When we say that the Constitution 
must be maintained in accordance with the provisions 
contained in this Constitution we practically mean what the 
American Constitution means, namely that the form of the 
constitution prescribed in this Constitution must be 
maintained. Therefore, so far as that point is concerned we do 
not think that the Drafting Committee has made any 
departure from an established principle. 
The other point of criticism was that Articles 278 and 278-A 
were unnecessary in view of the fact that there are already in 
the Constitution Articles 275 and 276. With all respect I must 
submit that he (Pandit Kunzru) has altogether misunderstood 
the purposes and intentions which underlie Article 275 and 
the present Article 278. His argument was that after all what 
you want is the right to legislate on provincial subjects. That 
right you get by the terms of Article 276 , because under that 
the Centre gets the power, once the Proclamation is issued, to 
legislate on all subjects mentioned in List II. I think that is a 
very limited understanding of the provisions contained either 
in Articles 275 and 276 or in Articles 278 and 278-A. 
I should like first of all to draw the attention of the House to 
the fact that the occasions on which the two sets of Articles 
will come into operation are quite different. Article 275 limits 
the intervention of the Centre to a state of affairs when there is 
war or aggression, internal or external. Article 278 refers to 
the failure of the machinery by reasons other than war or 
aggression. Consequently the operative clauses, as I said, are 
quite different. For instance, when a proclamation of war has 
been issued under Article 275 , you get no authority to 
suspend the provincial constitution. The provincial 
constitution would continue in operation. The legislature will 
continue to function and possess the powers which the 
constitution gives it; the executive will retain its executive 
power and continue to administer the province in accordance 
with the law of the province. All that happens under Article 
276 is that the Centre also gets concurrent power of legislation 
and concurrent power of administration. That is what happens 
under Article 276. But when Article 278 comes into operation, 
the situation would be totally different. There will be no 
legislature in the province, because the legislature would have 
been suspended. There will be practically no executive 
authority in the province unless any is left by the 
proclamation by the President or by Parliament or by the 
Governor. The two situations are quite different. I think it is 
essential that we ought to keep the demarcation which we 
have made by component words of Articles 275 and 278. I 
think mixing the two things up would cause a great deal of 
confusion. Xxx				xxx			xxx			xxx
The Honourable Dr. B.R. Ambedkar:	Only when the 
government is not carried on in consonance with the 
provisions laid down for the constitutional government of the 
provinces, whether there is good government or not in the 
province is for the Centre to determine. I am quite clear on the 
point. Xxx			xxx			xxx			xxx
The Honorable Dr. B.R. Ambedkar: It would take me very long 
now to go into a detailed examination of the whole thing and, 
referring to each say, this is the print which is established in it 
and say, if any government or any legislature of a province 
does not act in accordance with it, that would act as a failure 
of machinery. The expression "failure of machinery" I find has 
been used in the Government of India Act, 1935 . Everybody 
must be quite familiar therefore with its de facto and de jure 
meaning. I do not think any further explanation is necessary. 
	Xxx			xxx			xxx			xxx
The Honourable Dr. B. R. Ambedkar: In regard to the general 
debate which has taken place in which it has been suggested 
that these Articles are liable to be abused, I may say that I do 
not altogether deny that there is a possibility of these Articles 
being abused or employed for political purposes. But that 
objection applies to every part of the Constitution which gives 
power to the Centre to override the Provinces. In fact I share 
the sentiments expressed by my honourable Friend Mr. Gupte 
yesterday that the proper thing we ought to expect is that 
such Articles will never be called into operation and that they 
would remain a dead letter. If at all they are brought into 
operation, I hope the President, who is endowed with these 
powers, will take proper precautions before actually 
suspending the administration of the provinces. I hope the 
first thing he will do would be to issue a mere warning to a 
province that has erred, that things were not happening, in 
the way in which they were intended to happen in the 
Constitution. If that warning fails, the second thing for him to 
do will be to order an election allowing the people of the 
province to settle matters by themselves. It is only when these 
two remedies fail that he would resort to this Article. It is only 
in those circumstances he would resort to this Article. I do not 
think we could then say that these Articles were imported in 
vain or that the President had acted wantonly. 
Shri H. V. Kamath : Is Dr. Ambedkar in a position to assure 
the House that Article 143 will now be suitably amended?
 The Honourable Dr. B. R. Ambedkar : I have said so and I say 
now that when the Drafting Committee meets after the Second 
Reading, it will look into the provisions as a whole and Article 
143 will be suitably amended if necessary. 
Mr. President: I will now put the amendment to vote one after 
another. The question is : The motion was adopted. Article 188 was deleted from the Constitution. 
Mr. President: Then I will take up Article 277-A.
The question is : The amendment was negatived. Mr. President: Now I will put amendment No. 221.
The question is : The amendment was negatived. Mr. President: The question is: The amendment was negatived. Mr. President : The question is : The motion was adopted, 
Mr. President: The question is.: The motion was adopted. Article 277-A was added to the Constitution. 
Mr. President: The question is: The amendment was negatived. Mr. President: The question is: The amendment was negatived. Mr. President : The question is: The amendment was negatived. Mr. President: The question is: 'Provided that the President may if he so 
thinks fit order at any time, during this period 
a dissolution of the State legislature followed 
by a fresh general election, and the 
Proclamation shall cease to have effect from 
the day on which the newly elected legislature 
meets in session'." The amendment was negatived. Mr. President: The question is: The amendment was adopted. Mr. President: The question is: The motion was adopted. Article 278 was added to the Constitution. 
Mr. President: The question is: The motion was adopted. Article 278-A was added to the Constitution. 
	In the Adoption of the Constitution the speech of Dr. B.R. 
Ambedkar on 25.11.1949 contained the following significant 
observations: In another place, he has said: I admit that what Jefferson has said is not 
merely true, but is absolutely true. There can 
be no question about it. Had the Constituent 
Assembly departed from this principle laid 
down by Jefferson it would certainly be liable 
to blame even to condemnation. But I ask, has 
it? Quite the contrary. One has only to 
examine the provisions relating to the 
amendment of the Constitution. The Assembly 
has not only refrained from putting a seal of 
finality and infallibility upon this Constitution 
by denying to the people the right to amend 
the Constitution as in Canada or by making 
the amendment of the Constitution subject to 
the fulfillment of extraordinary terms and 
conditions as in America or Australia, but has 
provided a most facile procedure for amending 
the Constitution. I challenge any of the critics 
of the Constitution to prove that any 
Constituent Assembly anywhere in the world 
has, in the circumstances in which this 
country finds itself, provided such a facile 
procedure for the amendment of the 
Constitution. If those who are dissatisfied with 
the Constitution have only to obtain a two-
thirds majority and if they cannot obtain even 
a two-thirds majority in the Parliament elected 
on adult franchise in their favour, their 
dissatisfaction with the Constitution cannot be 
deemed to be shared by the general public. 
	There is only one point of constitutional 
import to which I propose to make a reference. 
A serious complaint is made on the ground 
that there is too much of centralization and 
that the States have been reduced to 
municipalities. It is clear that this view is not 
only an exaggeration, but is also founded on a 
mis-understanding of what exactly the 
Constitution contrives to do. As to the relation 
between the Centre and the State, it is 
necessary to bear in mind the fundamental 
principle on which it rests. The basic principle 
of federalism is that the legislative and 
executive authority is partitioned between the 
Centre and the States not by any law to be 
made by the Centre but by the Constitution 
itself. That is what the Constitution does. The 
States under our Constitution are in no way 
dependent upon the Centre for their legislative 
or executive authority. The Centre and the 
States are co-equal in this matter. It is difficult 
to see how such a Constitution can be called 
centralism. It may be that the Constitution 
assigns to the Centre a larger field for the 
operation of its legislative and executive 
authority than is to be found in any other 
federal Constitution. It may be that the 
residuary powers are given to the Centre and 
not to the States. But these features do not 
form the essence of federalism. The chief mark 
of federalism, as I said, lies in the partition of 
the legislative and executive authority between 
the Centre and the units by the Constitution. 
This is the principle embodied in our 
Constitution. There can be no mistake about 
it. It is, therefore, wrong to say that the States 
have been placed under the Centre. The Centre 
cannot by its own will alter the boundary of 
that partition. Nor can the judiciary. For as 
has been well said: The first charge of centralization defeating 
federalism must therefore fall. As noted above, the Governor occupies a very important 
and significant post in the democratic set up. When his 
credibility is at stake on the basis of allegations that he was 
not performing his constitutional obligations or functions in 
the correct way, it is a sad reflection on the person chosen to 
be the executive Head of a particular State. A person 
appointed as a Governor should add glory to the post and not 
be a symbolic figure oblivious of the duties and functions 
which he has is expected to carry out. It is interesting to note 
that allegations of favouratism and mala fides are hurled by 
other parties at Governors who belonged or belong to the 
ruling party at the Centre, and if the Governor at any point of 
time was a functionary of the ruling party. The position does 
not change when another party comes to rule at the Centre. It 
appears to be a matter of convenience for different political 
parties to allege mala fides. This unfortunate situation could 
have been and can be avoided by acting on the 
recommendations of the Sarkaria Commission and the 
Committee of the National Commission To Review The Working 
Of The Constitution in the matter of appointment of 
Governors. This does not appear to be convenient for the 
parties because they want to take advantage of the situation at 
a particular time and cry foul when the situation does not 
seem favourable to them. This is a sad reflection on the morals 
of the political parties who do not loose the opportunity of 
politicizing the post of the Governor. Sooner remedial 
measures are taken would be better for the democracy. It is not deficiency in the Constitution which is 
responsible for the situation. It is clearly attributable to the 
people who elect the Governors on considerations other than 
merit. It is a disturbing feature, and if media reports are to be 
believed, Raj Bhawans are increasingly turning into extensions 
of party offices and the Governors are behaving like party 
functionaries of a particular party. This is not healthy for the 
democracy. The key actor in the Centre-State relations is the 
Governor who is a bridge between the Union and the State. 
The founding fathers deliberately avoided election to the office 
of the Governor, as is in vogue in the U.S.A. to insulate the 
office from the linguistic chauvinism. The President has been 
empowered to appoint him as executive head of the State 
under Article 155 in Part VI, Chapter II. The executive power of 
the State is vested in him by Article 154 and exercised by him 
with the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers, the Chief 
Minister as its head. Under Article 159 the Governor shall 
discharge his functions in accordance with the oath to protect 
and defend the Constitution and the law. The office of the 
Governor, therefore, is intended to ensure protection and 
sustenance of the constitutional process of the working of the 
Constitution by the elected executive and given him an 
umpire's role. When a Gandhian economist Member of the 
Constituent Assembly wrote a letter to Gandhiji of his plea for 
abolition of the office of the Governor, Gandhiji wrote to him 
for its retention, thus; the Governor had been given a very 
useful and necessary place in the scheme of the team. He 
would be an arbiter when there was a constitutional dead lock 
in the State and he would be able to play an impartial role. 
There would be administrative mechanism through which the 
constitutional crisis would be resolved in the State. The 
Governor thus should play an important role. In his dual 
undivided capacity as a head of the State he should 
impartially assist the President. As a constitutional head of the 
State Government in times of constitutional crisis he should 
bring about sobriety. The link is apparent when we find that Article 356 would be put into operation normally based on 
Governor's report. He should truthfully and with high degree 
of constitutional responsibility, in terms of oath, inform the 
President that a situation has arisen in which the 
constitutional machinery in the State has failed and the 
Government of State cannot be carried on in accordance with 
the provisions of the Constitution, with necessary detailed 
factual foundation. It is incumbent on each occupant of every high office to 
be constantly aware of the power in the High Office he holds 
that is meant to be exercised in public interest and only for 
public good, and that it is not meant to be used for any 
personal benefit or merely to elevate the personal status of the 
current holder of that office. In Sarkaria Commission's report it was lamented that 
some Governors were not displaying the qualities of 
impartiality and sagacity expected of them. The situation does 
not seem to have improved since then. Reference to Report of the Committee of Governors (1971) 
would also be relevant. Some relevant extracts read as follows: Prof. Wade further observes: The observations of Hood Phillips in his latest book, 
Reform of the Constitution (1970), are relevant: (b) declare that the powers of the 
Legislature of the State shall be exercisable 
by or under the authority of Parliament; (c) make such incidental and 
consequential provisions as appear to the 
President to be necessary or desirable for 
giving effect to the objects of the 
Proclamation, including provisions for 
suspending in whole or in part the 
operation of any provisions of this 
Constitution relating to any body or 
authority in the State: While the Proclamation is in operation, 
Parliament becomes the Legislature for the State, and 
the Council of Ministers at the Centre is answerable 
to Parliament in all matters concerning the 
administration of the State. Any law made pursuant 
to the powers delegated by Parliament by virtue of the 
Proclamation is required to be laid before Parliament 
and is liable to modification by Parliament. Thus, a 
state under President's rule under Article 356 virtually comes under the executive responsibility 
and control of the Union Government. Responsible 
government in the State, during the period of the 
Proclamation, is replaced by responsible government 
at the Centre in respect of matters normally in the 
State's sphere. In discussing Article 356 , attention is inevitably 
drawn to Section 93 of the Government of India Act, 
1935. This section had attained a certain notoriety in 
view of the enormous power that it vested in the 
Governor and the possibility of its misuse, the 
Governor being the agent of the British Government. 
Many of the leading members of the Constituent 
Assembly had occupied important positions as 
Ministers in the Provinces following the inauguration 
of Provincial autonomy and had thus first-hand 
experience of the working of this particular section 
and the possible effect of having in the Constitution a 
provision like Section 93 . There was, therefore, 
considerable discussion, both in the Constituent 
Assembly and in the Committees, on the advisability, 
or necessity, of incorporating the provision in the 
Constitution. Pandit H.N. Kunzru, who had serious 
apprehensions regarding this provision, suggested 
the limiting of the Governor's functions to merely 
making a report to the President, it being left to the 
President to take such action as he considered 
appropriate on the report. Pandit Govind Ballabh 
Pant agreed with Pandit Kunzru in principle. The 
former referred in particular to the administrative 
difficulties that would be created by giving powers to 
the Governor to act on his own initiative over the 
head of his Ministers. The whole question was examined at a meeting 
of the Drafting Committee with Premiers of Provinces 
on July 23, 1949. Pandit Pant again expressed the 
view that the Governor should not come into the 
picture as an authority exercising powers in his 
discretion. Armed with such powers, he would be an 
autocrat and that might lead to friction between him 
and his Ministers. Shri Alladi Krishnaswami Ayyar tried to allay 
apprehensions in the minds of the members of the 
Constituent Assembly about the similarity between Section 93 of the Government of India Act and the 
provision made in Article 356 of the Constitution. He 
said in the Constituent Assembly: In winding up the debate on the emergency 
provisions, Dr. Abmedkar observed: Dr. Ambedkar's hope that this provision would 
be used sparingly, it must be admitted, has not been 
fulfilled. During the twenty-one years of the 
functioning of the Constitution, President's rule has 
been imposed twenty-four times- the imposition of 
President's rule in Kerala on November 1, 1956, was 
a continuation of President's rule in Travancore-
Cochin imposed earlier on March 23, 1956- the State 
of Kerala having been under President's rule five 
times and for the longest period. Out of seventeen 
States (not taking into account PEPSU which later 
merged into Punjab, and excluding Himachal 
Pradesh which became a State only recently), eleven 
have had spells of President's rule. The kind of 
political instability in some of the states that we have 
witnessed and the politics of defection which has so 
much tarnished the political life of this country were 
not perhaps envisaged in any measure at the time 
the Constituent Assembly considered the draft 
Constitution. No Governor would, it can be safely 
asserted, want the State to be brought under 
President's rule except in circumstances which leave 
him with no alternative. The article, as finally adopted, limits the 
functions of the Governor to making a report to the 
President that a situation has arisen in which there 
has been failure of the constitutional machinery. The 
decision whether a Proclamation may be issued 
under Article 356 rests with the President, that is to 
say, the Union Government. Significantly, the 
President can exercise the power "on receipt of a 
report from the Governor or otherwise" if he is 
satisfied that the situation requires the issue of such 
a Proclamation. Some of the circumstances in which President's 
rule may have to be imposed have already been 
discussed. What is important to remember is that 
recourse to Article 356 should be the last resort for a 
Governor to seek. A frequent criticism of the 
Governor in this connection is that he sometimes 
acts at the behest of the Union Government. This 
criticism emanates largely from a lack of appreciation 
of the situations which confront the Governors. 
Imposition of President's rule normally results in the 
President vesting the Governor with executive 
functions which belong to his Council of Ministers 
This is a responsibility which no Governor would 
lightly accept. Under President's rule he functions in 
relation to the administration of the State under the 
superintendence, direction and control of the 
President and concurrently with him by virtue of an 
order of the President. As Head of the State, the Governor has a duty to 
see that the administration of the State does not 
break down due to political instability. He has 
equally to take care that responsible Government in 
the State is not lightly disturbed or superseded. In 
ensuring these, it is not the Governor alone but also 
the political parties which must play a proper role. 
Political parties come to power with a mandate from 
the electorate and they owe primary responsibility to 
the Legislature. The norms of parliamentary 
government are best maintained by them. Before leaving this issue, we would like to state 
that it is not in the event of political instability alone 
that a Governor may report to the President under Article 356. Reference has been made elsewhere in 
this report to occasions where a Governor may have 
to report to the President about any serious internal 
disturbances in the State, or more especially of the 
existence or possibility of a danger of external 
aggression. In such situations also it may become 
necessary for the Governor to report to the President 
for action pursuant to Article 356. It is difficult to lay down any precise guidelines 
in regard to the imposition of President's rule. The 
Governor has to act on each occasion according to 
his best judgment, the guiding principle being, as 
already stated, that the constitutional machinery in 
the State should, as far as possible, be maintained. CONVENTIONS: These influences secure that the conventions of 
Cabinet Government, which are based on binding 
precedent and convenient usage, are observed by 
successive generations of Ministers. The exact 
content of a convention may change or even be 
reversed, but each departure from the previous 
practice is defended by those responsible as not 
violating the older precedents. Objections are only 
silenced when time has proved that the departure 
from precedent has created a new convention, or has 
shown itself to be a bad precedent and, therefore, 
constituted in itself a breach of convention. This exposition of the nature of conventions will 
show that, if they have to be observed and followed, 
the primary responsibility therefor will rest on those 
charged with the responsibility of government. In a 
parliamentary system, this responsibility 
unquestionably belongs to the elected representatives 
of the people who function in the Legislatures. They 
are mostly members of political parties who seek the 
suffrage of the electorate on the basis of promises 
made and programmes announced. The political 
parties, therefore, are concerned in the evolution of 
healthy conventions so that they "retain the 
confidence of the public, and, with it, office and 
power". These words were uttered by Dr. Ambedkar in 
the Constituent Assembly in moving consideration of 
the draft Constitution. It has become the fashion, 
when situations arise which may not be the liking of 
a particular political party, to blame the Constitution. 
The Governors also inevitably get their share of the 
blame either because, it is alleged they take a 
distorted view of the Constitution, or, as is also 
alleged, because the Constitution permits them to 
resort to "unconstitutional" acts. The essential 
structure of our Constitution relating to the 
functioning of the different branches of government is 
sound and capable of meeting all requirements. The 
conventions, or the guide-lines, that we are called 
upon to consider should be viewed in this 
background. Conventions evolve from experience and from 
trial and error. The working of our Constitution 
during the past twenty-one years has exposed not so 
much any weaknesses in our political life. Some of 
the weaknesses will be evident from the discussions 
in the earlier part of this Report. The Governors, 
under our Constitution, do not govern; government is 
the primary concern of the Council of Ministers 
which is responsible to the Legislature and the 
people. Therefore, for a purposeful evolution of 
conventions, the willing co-operation of the political 
parties and their readiness to adhere to such 
conventions are of paramount importance. In recent 
years, it has been a regrettable feature of political life 
in some of the States, with the growing number of 
splinter parties, some of them formed on the basis of 
individual or group alignments and not of well-
defined programmes or policies, that governments are 
formed with a leader- a Chief Minister - who comes 
to that office not as of a right, with the previous 
acquiescence of followers and the deference of his 
colleagues, but as being the most "acceptable" 
candidate for the time. Much of his time and efforts 
are, therefore, inevitably spent in finding expedients 
to keep himself in power and the Cabinet alive". In Special Reference NO.1 of 2002 case (supra) in 
paragraphs 55 and 56 it was observed as follows: Article 172 provides for duration of the State 
Legislatures. The Superintendence, direction and control of 
the elections to Parliament and to the Legislatures of every 
State vest in the Election Commission under Article 324. Article 327 provides that Parliament may make provision with 
respect to all matters relating to, or in connection with, 
elections to the Legislative Assembly of a State and all other 
matters necessary for securing the due constitution of the 
House of the Legislature. Conjoint reading of Article 327 of the 
Constitution and Section 73 of the R.P. Act makes the position 
clear that the Legislative Assembly had been constituted. No 
provision of the Constitution stipulates that the dissolution 
can only be after the first meeting of the Legislature. Once by 
operation of Section 73 of the R.P. Act the House or Assembly 
is deemed to be constituted, there is no bar on its dissolution. 
Coming to the plea that there was no Legislative 
Assembly in existence as contended by Mr. Viplav Sharma, 
appearing in person the same clearly overlooks Section 73 of 
the R.P. Act. There is no provision providing differently in the 
Constitution. There is no challenge to the validity of the Section 73 of the R.P. Act, which is in no way repugnant by 
any provision to the Constitution. That being so, by operation 
of Section 73 of the R.P. Act the Assembly was duly 
constituted. The stand that the Governor was obliged to 
convene the Session for administering oath to the members 
and for formation of a Cabinet thereafter has no relevance and 
is also not backed by any constitutional mandate. There was 
no compulsion on the Governor to convene a session or to 
install a Cabinet unless the pre-requisites in that regard were 
fulfilled. The reports of the Governor clearly indicated that it 
was not possible to convene a session for choosing a Chief 
Minister or for formation of a Cabinet. Even if hypothetically it is held that the dissolution 
notifications are unsustainable, yet restoration of status quo 
ante is not in the present case the proper relief. As noted 
supra, no stake was claimed by any person before the 
Governor. The documents relied upon to show that a majority 
existed lack authenticity and some of them even have the 
stamp of manipulation. The elections as scheduled had 
reached on an advanced stage. Undisputedly, the Election 
Commission had made elaborate arrangements. It would be 
inequitable to put the clock back and direct restoration of 
stats quo ante. In Public Law 2005, some interesting write-ups are there 
which have relevance. They read as follows: In the present case the Conseil d'Etat annulled 
a number of ministerial decisions. It also annulled 
other ones, but only from July 1 onwards, thus giving 
seven weeks to the Minister. The rights of persons who 
had earlier brought an action were explicitly preserved. 
The effects of a third group of annulled decisions were 
declared to be definitive, with the same reservation.
		Several comments are in order on this 
important judgment. The influence of the ECJ's case 
law and of its use of the ex nunc/ex tunc effect is 
evident. The judgment is also an apt illustration of a 
renewal of the conception of the role of administrative 
courts. It no longer stops when judgment is given. 
More and more attention is given to its effects, its 
practical consequences for all, the way it must be 
implemented by the Administration and its 
repercussions on the rights of individuals. Hence the 
attention given to the ways and means to conciliate the 
two basic principles of legality and of legal certainty 
(securite juridique). The latter is more and more seen 
as a pressing social need, to borrow the vocabulary of 
the European Court of Human Rights. A strong 
illustration is the recent case law of the Cour de 
cassation restricting the scope not only of lois de 
validation but also of retroactive "interpretative 
statutes", on the basis of Articles 6(1) and 13 ECHIR: Principles of judicial review which are applicable when an 
administrative action is challenged, cannot be applied stricto 
sensu. (2)	The impugned Notifications do not suffer from any 
constitutional invalidity. Had the Governor tried to stall 
staking of claim regarding majority that would have fallen foul 
of the Constitution and the notifications of dissolution would 
have been invalid. But, the Governor recommended 
dissolution on the ground that the majority projected had its 
foundation on unethical and corrupt means which had been 
and were being adopted to cobble a majority, and such action 
is not constitutional. It may be a wrong perception of the 
Governor. But it is his duty to prevent installation of a Cabinet 
where the majority has been cobbled in the aforesaid manner. 
It may in a given case be an erroneous approach, it may be a 
wrong perception, but it is certainly not irrational or irrelevant 
or extraneous. (3)	A Public Interest Litigation cannot be entertained where 
the stand taken was contrary to the stand taken by those who 
are affected by any action. In such a case the Public Interest 
Litigation is not to be entertained. That is the case here. (4)	Hypothetically even if it is said that the dissolution 
notifications were unconstitutional, the natural consequence 
is not restoration of status quo ante. The Court declaring the 
dissolution notifications to be invalid can assess the ground 
realities and the relevant factors and can mould the reliefs as 
the circumstances warrant. In the present case restoration of 
the status quo ante would not have been the proper relief even 
if the notifications were declared invalid. (5)	The Assembly is constituted in terms of Section 73 of the 
R.P. Act on the conditions indicated therein being fulfilled and 
there is no provision in the Constitution which is in any 
manner contrary or repugnant to the said provision. On the 
contrary, Article 327 of the Constitution is the source of power 
for enactment of Section 73 . (6)	In terms of Article 361 Governor enjoys complete 
immunity. Governor is not answerable to any Court for 
exercise and performance of powers and duties of his office or 
for any act done or purporting to be done by him in the 
exercise of those powers and duties. However, such immunity 
does not take away power of the Court to examine validity of 
the action including on the ground of mala fides. (7)	It has become imperative and necessary that right 
persons are chosen as Governors if the sanctity of the post as 
the Head of the Executive of a State is to be maintained. The writ applications are accordingly dismissed but 
without any order as to costs.