MRS. PADMA PANDEY, MEMBER 

 

  

 

Argued by: Sh. Sandeep Suri, Advocate for the appellant. Ms. Aparna Jain, Advocate for
the respondent. PER JUSTICE SHAM SUNDER (RETD.), PRESIDENT 

 

 This appeal is directed against
the order dated 15.10.2013 rendered by the District Consumer Disputes Redressal
Forum-I, U.T., Chandigarh
(hereinafter to be called as the District Forum only), vide which, it accepted
the complaint, filed by the complainant (now respondent) and directed the
Opposite Party (now appellant), as under:- 2.          
 The
facts, in brief, are that the complainant availed of Credit Card facility, from
the Opposite Party Bank, against Credit Card No.4629 8642 3733 1006. The representative/agent
of the Opposite Party Bank informed the complainant that it (Opposite Party
Bank) shall enhance his credit limit from Rs.1.36 lacs to Rs.2.80 lacs, without
charging anything. It was stated that the said representative/agent of the
Opposite Party, namely Amit, visited the complainant, and filled up a form, and
got it signed from him.  The
complainant was requested to cut the Credit Card, into pieces, and handover the
same, to him (representative/agent of the Opposite Party), as he had to deposit
the same, with it (Opposite Party), with a view to get the new card, in a
weeks time.  The complainant acted accordingly. However, on the next day i.e. 15.12.2011 at
around 8.41 P.M., the complainant received an SMS, on his mobile phone, stating
that a transaction for Rs.29,000/- was done at CROMA. The complainant immediately
contacted the ICICI Bank-24 hours Customer Care Helpline and got his Credit
Card blocked.  The
complainant was also apprised that the Credit Card was used at New Delhi outlet of CROMA. The matter
was reported to the Police, which made investigations, and traced the ID Card
of the person, who fraudulently used the Credit Card of the complainant. The
matter was also brought to the notice of the Opposite Party Bank. However,
the Bank did not take any action, to trace the actual user of the Credit Card,
which proved that its Officials were also in-connivance with the said person. 3.      It was
further stated that the Opposite Party Bank also issued a letter dated
27.12.2011 to the complainant, stating that it had temporarily reversed the
charges, billed to his account, towards the said transaction.  It was further stated that the Bank, issued
another letter dated 02.05.2013, stating therein that it had investigated the
transaction, and came to know that there was a failure, on the part of the
complainant, to exercise due diligence, in handling the Credit Card. It was
further intimated that the outstanding amount, was required to be paid by the
complainant, to avoid accrual of further financial charges. It was further
stated that the aforesaid acts of the Opposite Party, amounted to deficiency,
in rendering service, as also indulgence into unfair trade practice. When the
grievance of the complainant, was not redressed, left with no alternative, a
complaint under Section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (hereinafter to
be called as the Act only), was filed, directing the Opposite Party, to waive
off the amount, in respect whereof he had been duped, through fraudulent
transaction, aforesaid; provide the CCTV footage, in respect of the said
transaction, to aid the Police investigation; pay compensation, to the tune of
Rs.1 lac, for mental agony, and physical harassment; and cost of litigation. 4.     
 The
Opposite Party was duly served. Mr. Sandeep Suri, put in appearance, on behalf of the
Opposite Party on 26.08.2013, as is evident, from the District Forum record,
and filed his memo of appearance, whereafter, the complaint was adjourned to
10.09.2013. On 10.09.2013, reply and evidence were not filed by the Opposite
Party, and the case was adjourned to 24.09.2013 for the said purpose. On
24.09.2013, none put in appearance, on behalf of the Opposite Party, as a
result whereof, it was proceeded against exparte. 5.     
 The complainant
led evidence, in support of his case. 6.     
 The Opposite
Party, however, submitted the written arguments. 7.     
 After hearing
the Counsel for the complainant, on going through the written arguments of the
Opposite Party, and, analyzing the evidence, and record of the case, the District
Forum, accepted the complaint, in the manner, referred to, in the opening para
of the instant order. 8.     
 Feeling
aggrieved, the instant appeal, has been filed by the appellant/Opposite Party. 9.     
 We have heard
the Counsel for the parties, and, have gone through the evidence, and record of
the case, carefully. 10.  
 The Counsel
for the appellant/Opposite Party, submitted that the Opposite Party, never
authorized any of its agents, to contact the complainant, in the instant case,
nor had it ever allowed any agent, to contact the customers, for the purpose of
collecting the Credit Card(s). He
further submitted that it was for the complainant to keep the Credit Card,
issued by the bank, in safe custody, and not to hand-over the same, to an
unauthorized person. He further submitted that since the complainant did not
take proper measures to safeguard the custody of the Credit Card and handed over
the same, to an unauthorized person, if any transaction took place, then the
bank was not liable for the same. He further submitted that the bank also made
its stand clear, in its reply, sent vide letter dated 02.05.2013-Annexure C-9, to
the complainant. He further submitted that, as such, there was neither any
deficiency, in rendering service, on the part of the Opposite Party, nor it
indulged into unfair trade practice. He further submitted that the order of the
District Forum, being illegal and invalid, is liable to be set aside. 11.  
 On the other
hand, the Counsel for the respondent/complainant, submitted that since the agent
of the Opposite Party Bank, with bank stationary (brochure etc.), came to the
complainant, he had no reason to disbelieve him. She further submitted that, it
was, under these circumstances, that the Credit Card was handed over to the
agent of the Opposite Party, and if he misused the same, then the bank was
responsible for the same. She further submitted that the District Forum was
right, in accepting the complaint. 12.  
 Admittedly,
the Credit Card, bearing no. 4629 8642 3733 1006, was
issued by the Opposite Party, in favour of the complainant. The grievance of
the complainant was, to the effect, that he did not withdraw the amount of Rs.29,000/-,
through this Credit Card, from his account, but the agent of the Opposite Party
bank, to whom he handed over the same (Credit Card), on the promise of
enhancing his credit limit, misused the same. It may be stated here, that in
paragraph number 5 of the complaint, the complainant, in clear-cut terms,
stated that the said agent requested him, to cut the Credit Card, into pieces
and handover the same to him, as he had to deposit the same, in the Opposite
Party bank, whereupon a new Credit Card would be issued, in a week`s time. It
was further stated, in paragraph number 5 of the complaint, that accordingly the
complainant gave the Credit Card to the said agent. From paragraph number 5 of
the complaint, it is, thus, evident that the complainant, gave the Credit Card,
by tearing the same, into pieces, to the alleged agent. In case, the
complainant gave the Credit Card, by cutting the same into pieces, as is
evident, from paragraph number 5 of the complaint, to the alleged agent of the
bank, then the question of using the same, by him, did not at all arise. Thus,
the case put up by the complainant, to the effect that he gave the Credit Card,
by cutting the same, into pieces, to the alleged agent of the Opposite Party,
appears to be a concocted one. If the complainant handed over the Credit Card,
to some unauthorized person, and he made a transaction, by withdrawing Rs.29,000/-,
on the basis of the same, then the bank could not be held responsible. Even from
paragraph number 3 of the email, at page 22 of the District Forum file, sent by
the complainant, to the Opposite Party, it is evident that he never applied for
enhancing the Credit Card limit or for new Credit Card. Since the complainant
did not take proper measures to safeguard the Credit Card, the bank could not
be held liable for deficiency, in rendering service. 13.  
 Not only
this, in Annexure C-9, dated 02.05.2013, detailed reply sent by the Opposite
Party, to the complainant, it was stated that the bank was continuously
educating the customers, through media, for being cautious, in handling the Credit
Cards/phishing frauds etc. It was further made clear, in this letter, by the
Opposite Party that it never asked for handing over the Credit Cards, which were
in possession of the customer(s), to any of its alleged agent, or to a third
party. It was further made clear, in this letter that the complainant handed
over the Credit Card to an unauthorized person, without verifying his
credentials and did not exercise due diligence, in ascertaining his identity,
before handing over the same. It was further made clear, in this letter, that he
was responsible for security of the Credit Card, and was required to take all steps,
ensuring that the same (Credit Card) was not misused. As stated above, it was
the duty of the complainant, to take proper measures, to safeguard the custody of
the Credit Card, and not to hand-over the same, to an unauthorized person,
without verifying his credentials and identity. Amit, who came to the
complainant and to whom he allegedly handed over the Credit Card, was not
proved to be the Agent of the Opposite Party, through any cogent evidence. 14.   The Credit Card could
only be used, if the customer inputs his personal four digit identification
number, which is selected by him (customer), and not by the Bank. However, in
the interest of security, the customer is advised to retain his PIN code, in
his memory, so that no one else is privy to this information. The reverse of
the Credit Card has a magnetic strip and white strip for signatures of the Cardholder.
The magnetic strip contains the Cardholders details. This Card can be used to
gain entry into the ATM enclosure, by swiping it, in the access lodge. In other
words, unless a person is in possession of the relevant Credit Card, and knows
the four digit PIN code, the same (Credit Card) cannot be used and
operated. As a matter of further precaution, in case, the PIN code is entered
wrongly, thrice, in succession, the ATM will swallow the Credit Card itself or
cancel it permanently. The complainant was in exclusive knowledge of the four
digit personal identification number of the said Card. Until and unless, the complainant
disclosed the four
digit personal identification number to an unauthorized person, to whom he allegedly
handed over the Credit Card, that person could not operate the same, and
withdraw a sum of Rs.29,000/-. It is, thus, proved from the evidence, on
record, that the complainant by himself handing over the Credit Card, to an
unauthorized person, and disclosing the four digit PIN number, to that person,
was responsible for the transaction, vide which, a sum of Rs.29,000/- was
withdrawn. For the fault of the complainant, therefore, the Opposite Party could
not be held liable. In
State Bank of India Vs.
K.K.Bhalla, Revision Petition No.3182 of 2008 , decided on
7.4.2011, by the Hon'ble National Consumer Disputes Redressal
Commission, New Delhi,
similar principle of law, was laid down. In these circumstances, in our
considered opinion, the District Forum was wrong, in coming to the conclusion,
that the Opposite Party was deficient, in rendering service. 15.   No doubt, in the first instance, when intimation
was given by the complainant, to the Opposite Party, it temporarily reversed
the entry of entire amount of Rs.29,000/-, i.e. the amount, which was withdrawn,
by an unauthorized person, to whom the Credit Card was allegedly handed over by
the complainant. However, later on, when the bank investigated the matter, and came
to the conclusion, that it did not send any agent to the complainant, to
collect the Credit Card and he (complainant), was at fault, for handing over
the said Credit Card, to an unauthorized person, and it (Opposite Party) was
not responsible for such an act, it made a demand of the amount due to it,
against him (complainant), on the basis of such Credit Card. Such temporary
reversal of the entry of the aforesaid amount, in the Credit Card account of
the complainant, did not mean that the bank accepted the contention of the complainant
or its liability. 16.  
 No other
point, was urged, by the Counsel for the parties. 17.  
 In view of
the above discussion, it is held that the order passed by the District Forum,
being not based on the correct appreciation of evidence, and law, on the point,
suffers from illegality and perversity, warranting the interference of this
Commission. 18.  
 For the
reasons recorded above, the appeal is accepted, with no order as to costs. The
order of the District Forum is set aside 19.  
 Certified
copies of this order, be sent to the parties, free of charge. 20.  
 The file be consigned to Record Room,
after completion 

 

Pronounced. January 22, 2014 

 

Sd/- [JUSTICE SHAM SUNDER (RETD.)] 

 

PRESIDENT 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

Sd/- (DEV RAJ) 

 

MEMBER 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

Sd/- (PADMA PANDEY) 

 

 MEMBER 

 

  

 

  

 

Rg