Being transmitted by the Supreme Court, this Habeas Corpus petition is before us for adjudication. Smt. Nuzhat Parween, mother of the detenue Dr. Kafeel Khan has preferred this petition assailing validity of the detention order dated 13th February, 2020 passed by the District Magistrate, Aligarh invoking powers under sub-Section (2) of Section 3 of the National Security Act, 1980. Factual matrix of the case is as follows:- (translated version of the order as filed along with the writ petition)
 
	Suffice to notice that as per release order the accused was to be produced before the Magistrate at 11.00 am on 13th February, 2020 in the event of discrepancy in the particulars given in the release order. Despite the release order dated 10th February, 2020, the accused (present detenue) was neither released nor was produced before the Magistrate, hence the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Aligarh further passed another order dated 13th February, 2020 in following terms:- (translated version of the order as filed along with the writ petition)
 
	As per the petitioner, the order above quoted was presented before the Superintendent of Jail, District Jail, Mathura at about 5.30 pm but was not accepted intentionally and purposefully. The receipt of the order was ultimately shown at 20:20 hours. The order aforesaid was sent to the Superintendent of Jail, District Jail, Mathura by hand through a special messenger Sri Parmeet Kumar. On the same day i.e. 13th February, 2020 the Inspector In-charge, Police Station Civil Line, Aligarh reported to Deputy Inspector General of Police/Senior Superintendent of Police, Aligarh to recommend the District Magistrate, Aligarh for detention of Dr. Kafeel Khan as per provisions of sub-Section (2) of Section 3 of the National Security Act, 1980. The report given by the Inspector In-charge dated 13th February, 2020 reads as under:- (translated version of the order as filed along with the writ petition)
 
	Reports of the same nature were also given by the Circle Officer, Aligarh and Superintendent of Police, Aligarh on 13th February, 2020. The reports so given are verbatim same except some formal distinctions. On 13th February, 2020 itself the Deputy Inspector General of Police/Senior Superintendent of Police, Aligarh made a request to the District Magistrate, Aligarh to pass an order to detain Dr. Kafeel Khan in accordance with National Security Act, 1980 . The recitals of the recommendation made by the Deputy Inspector General of Police/Senior Superintendent of Police/Aligarh to the District Magistrate, Aligarh are also largely in the terms and tune to the recommendations made to him by other police officials. The District Magistrate, Aligarh then invoked the powers under sub-Section (2) of Section 3 of the National Security Act, 1980 and passed the order dated 13th February, 2020 that reads as follows:- (translated version of the order as filed along with the writ petition)
 
	Along with the order of detention the District Magistrate, Aligarh also supplied the grounds of detention, which are as follows:- (translated version of the order as filed along with the writ petition)
 
	As per the counter affidavit filed by the Superintendent of Jail, District Jail, Mathura, the order of detention was served upon Dr. Kafeel Khan on 14th February, 2020 but no date and time of receipt of the detention order is disclosed. The detention order dated 13th February, 2020 came to be approved by the State Government on 24th February, 2020 and a copy of the order of approval was supplied to the detenue on 25th February, 2020. It would also be appropriate to state that as per Superintendent of Jail, District Jail, Mathura the order dated 13th February, 2020 passed by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Aligarh was received in his office on 13th February, 2020 after locking up the jail, therefore, the accused (present detenue) was not released on that day itself. On receiving the order of detention, the detenue submitted representations in four sets addressed to the District Magistrate, Aligarh, the State Government, the State Advisory Board and the Central Government on 20th February, 2020. The State Government rejected the representation on 4th March, 2020 and a copy of order of rejection was supplied to the detenue on 5th March, 2020. The Central Government rejected the representation on 9th March, 2020. An opportunity of hearing was provided to the detenue by the State Advisory Board on 17th March, 2020. The Board then submitted report to the State Government and on 1st April, 2020 the State confirmed the order of detention. By an order dated 6th May, 2020 the State Government invoking powers under sub-Section (1) of Section 12 of the National Security Act, 1980 extended the term of detention for a period of six months from the date of detention i.e. 13th February, 2020. The State Government vide order dated 4th August, 2020 further extended the term of detention for a period of three months from the date the term of six months expires. Being aggrieved by the order of detention, its confirmation by the appropriate government and further extension under the orders dated 6th May, 2020 and 4th August, 2020, instant petition is preferred to have a writ in the nature of Habeas Corpus. The arguments advanced on behalf of the petitioner are:- B. The detention brought into effect under order dated 13th February, 2020 deserves to be declared illegal as the authority making the order of detention did not communicate the grounds for detention sufficient to afford opportunity of making representation against the order. C. The detention of Dr. Kafeel Khan deserves to be revoked as the State of Uttar Pradesh as well as the Central Government failed to decide expeditiously the representation submitted by the detenue. Per contra, learned Additional Advocate General, Sri Manish Goyal assisted by Sri Patanjali Mishra, learned Additional Government Advocate while opposing the petition for writ vehemently urged that the District Magistrate, Aligarh only after taking into consideration all the circumstances and the material made available to him arrived at a definite conclusion pertaining to the need of detaining Dr. Kafeel Khan to prevent him from acting prejudicially to public order. It is asserted that the District Magistrate, Aligarh examined all the events taken place on 12th December, 2019 and subsequent thereto, recorded statisfaction that Dr. Kafeel Khan may cause serious injury to the maintenance of public order in the city of Aligarh and, therefore, the detention is highly desirable. According to learned Additional Advocate General, the subjective satisfaction arrived by the District Magistrate, Aligarh after consideration of the material available is not open to be examined and interfered by this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The arguments advanced by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner have also been seriously contested by learned Additional Advocate General. It is asserted that the police authorities on 13th February, 2020 brought into his notice about valid apprehension for causing injury to the city of Aligarh by Dr. Kafeel Khan and by taking into consideration the same, the order of detention was passed. The order was served upon the detenue at Mathura as soon as possible. A complete note pertaining to grounds of detention was also served upon the detenue. Along with the note, necessary material was also supplied including a compact disk recording the speech delivered by Dr. Kafeel Khan at Bab-e-Syed gate Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh. The contents of the speech clearly indicate that the detenue was intending to harm communal harmony, peace and tranquility and for the purpose he prompted student community to be aggressive. As a consequence to the address made by him to a gathering of about 600 students on 12th February, 2020, nearly 10,000 people gathered at Bab-e-Syed gate Aligarh Muslim Unviersity, Aligarh on 13th February, 2020 and caused violence at high level. The violence erupted was controlled by the police after huge efforts. A criminal case in that regard was also lodged in which Chief Judicial Magistrate, Aligarh directed for release of Dr. Kafeel Khan on bail but the District Magistrate, Aligarh without having any intention to flout the bail order, examined effect and impact the arrival of Dr. Kafeel Khan in the city of Aligarh and; anticipating a serious blow to maintenance of public order, a definite opinion was formed to have an order of detention. So far as the delay in deciding representation is concerned, it is submitted that the representation was given by the detenue on 20th February, 2020 and that was examined at different levels and was ultimately decided on 4th March, 2020. Learned Additional Advocate General states that the month of February had 28 days and after 20th, 21st and 22nd were holidays. The District Magistrate considered the representation and rejected the same on 24th March, 2020. The State Government too considered the representation expeditiously and rejected the same on 4th March, 2020. A copy of the rejection order was served upon the detenue on 5th March, 2020 itself. In rejoinder, Sri Dileep Kumar, learned Senior Counsel assisted by Sri Manoj Kumar, Advocate and Sri N.I. Jafri, learned Senior Counsel assisted by Sri Manish Singh, Advocate while reiterating all the arguments made by him pointed out that the note containing grounds for detention does not satisfy the requirements of Article 22 of the Constitution of India and also the provisions of National Security Act, 1980 as the detaining authority did not look into the complete speech made by Dr. Kafeel Khan and also failed to understand its intent. Some portions from here and there are taken out and are mentioned in the order of detention. An intentional effort was made for not providing complete lecture said to be delivered by Dr. Kafeel Khan on 12th December, 2019 at Bab-e-Syed gate Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh. A compact disk was certainly supplied but no device was made available to play the same. In absence of such performing device, the supply of compact disk is meaningless and that amounts to non-supply of the material. It is further stated that the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Aligarh passed the bail order on 10th February, 2020. In pursuance to the order aforesaid, necessary bail bonds and sureties were furnished on very next day but the accused (present detenue) was not released. A release order then was passed but that too was not accepted intentionally with a view to have an order of detention in the meantime. According to learned counsel, examination of complete facts in seriatum indicates malicious exercise of powers just to curtail liberty and freedom of Dr. Kafeel Khan and the same causes serious injury to the fundamental rights protected under Article 21 and 22 of the Constitution of India. Heard learned counsels, considered the arguments and also perused the record including the original record placed before us by Dr. Anil Kumar Singh, Special Secretary (Home), Government of U.P., Lucknow and Sri Sanjeev Ojha, Deputy Collector, Aligarh. The National Security Act, 1980 that was enacted by Parliament in 31st year of the Republic of India to provide for preventive detention in certain cases and for matters connected therewith. Preventive detention is an exceptional mode to curtail liberty and freedom of a person in exceptionally rare circumstances. Under Article 21 of the Constitution of India along with the right to life, the right to personal liberty is a precious fundamental right. This precious fundamental right must always be protected. Under our constitutional scheme the nation of India is weaved as a democratic republic where social, economic and political justice to every citizen is secured, where liberty of thought, expression, belief, faith are constitutionally protected, where every citizen is at equal status with equal opportunities. The system of governance is to promote fraternity with assurance to maintain the dignity of every individual as well as unity and integrity of the nation. The strong and valuable fabric of our nation is well designed with support of fundamental rights given in Part-III of the Constitution. These rights are golden thread in the fabric, which is further illuminated by extending protection of life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. True it is, the right so given under Article 21 is not absolute but no one can be deprived of his or her personal liberty except on such grounds and in accordance with such procedure as are established by law. Any act that causes injury to the valuable rights given in Part-III of the Constitution would be nothing but an effort to weaken the fabric of our nation, a democratic republic. We are examining the entire issue involved in this petition with the conceptual understanding of the fundamental rights as above. Most of the facts placed before us are admitted by the parties. It is a fact admitted that Dr. Kafeel Khan and Dr. Yogendra Yadav addressed a gathering of 600 students at Bab-e-Syed gate of Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh on 12th December, 2019. They were invited to address the students who were protesting the proposed amendments through the Citizenship Amendment Bill, 2019. The bill was passed by both the houses of the Parliament on 12th December, 2019 and was also assented to by the President of India, on 13th December, 2019. It is also a fact admitted that on 13th December, 2020 a huge crowd of people gathered at Bab-e-Syed gate of Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh to lodge protest against the amendments introduced in the Citizenship Act . As per the respondents, the crowd gathered caused violence and also damaged public property. An inference has been drawn by the respondents that whatever happened on 13th December, 2019 is an outcome of the provocative speech of Dr. Kafeel Khan. Relevant parts of which are referred in the grounds for detention supplied to the detenue. Pertinent to notice here that no proceedings for detention of Dr. Kafeel Khan were initiated for about good two months from the day he addressed the students. At that time the sole action taken was lodging a criminal case against him pertaining to offences under Section 153A of Indian Penal Code. Some offences were subsequently added to it. In the case aforesaid, accused Dr. Kafeel Khan was arrested on 29th January, 2020 i.e. after a lapse of more than 45 days. In that case an application for getting the accused released on bail came to be accepted by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Aligarh on 10th February, 2020. No recommendation even then was made for invoking powers under sub-Section (2) of Section 3 of the National Security Act, 1980. It is only after passing of the release order dated 12th February, 2020 three police officials made a request to the Deputy Inspector General/Senior Superintendent of Police, Aligarh to make a request to the District Magistrate, Aligarh for having an order of detention. The order of detention was served upon Dr. Kafeel Khan along with a note of grounds for detention and the supporting material. As per the grounds of detention, on 12th December, 2019 around 18.30 hours Dr. Kafeel Khan addressed the University students around 600 in number at Bab-e-Syed gate of Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh. In his address, he tried to incite the religious sentiments of the Muslim students present in the meeting and to increase hatred, enmity and disharmony towards the other community. The speech delivered by Dr. Kafeel Khan had adverse effect on the harmony between communities and that disturbed public peace. In his speech, he stated that "Mota Bhai teaches us that we will become Hindu or Muslim but not human by CAA, we will be made second class citizens after that by implementation of NRC they will trouble you by saying your father's documents are not correct you will be made to run around. This is a fight for existence and will will have to fight". The recitals aforesaid were treated as an effort to create disharmony and enmity towards Hindus, Sikhs, Christians and Parsi in the minds of the Muslim students of Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh as the detenue tried to instill a feeling of hatred and enmity in minds of the Muslim students of Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh towards other communities. The above speech, as per the grounds for detention note inspired and instigated students of Aligarh Muslim University to protest against CAA and NRC and that adversely affected public order resulting into a continuous violence. It also developed fear, insecurity and anger amongst the people of sensitive district Aligarh. An apprehension was expressed by the District Magistrate, Aligarh of likelihood of Dr. Kafeel Khan committing such acts. A reading of the grounds of detention certainly creates an impression that a provocative speech was given by the detenue, but a plain reading of that reflects otherwise, hence it would be appropriate to go through that. However, objection of learned Additional Advocate General is the Court must be conscious that the satisfaction of the detaining authority is "subjective in nature" and the Court cannot substitute its opinion over subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority, as such, no interference with an order based on subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority is desirable. He has supported the objections by placing reliance upon following judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court:- We are in absolute agreement with learned Additional Advocate General that it is not open for the courts to substitute their opinion by interfering with "subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority". However, it does not mean that the court cannot look into the material on which detention is based. The expression "subjective satisfaction" means the satisfaction of a reasonable man that can be arrived at on the basis of some material which satisfies a rational man. It does not refer to whim or caprice of the authority concerned. While assessing "subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority" the Court examining a petition seeking a writ of habeas corpus has to look into the record to examine whether the subjective satisfaction is acceptable to a reasonable wisdom and that satisfies rationality of normal thinking and analyzing process. The grounds for detention with supporting material is also required to be looked into to ascertain whether it is sufficient to enable the detenue to make his representation at earliest, of course, this opportunity must be effective and real. In view of above, we have looked into the speech delivered by the detenue. The closure of examining record as suggested would be nothing but a licence to allow the executives to act at their whims or caprice. This would be against the fundamentals of our constitutional values and provisions. Looking to the seriousness of the issue, we consider it appropriate to quote the entire speech of Dr. Kafeel Khan:- In Khudi Ram Das Vs. State of West Bengal & 3 Ors., reported in 1975 (2) SCC 81, a three Judge Bench of the Supreme Court while discussing the nature of satisfaction required to be recorded by the executive authorities before preventively detaining a person and while considering the scope of judicial review of such an action observed as under: So far as this ground is concerned, the courts in the United States have gone much further than the courts in England or in this country. The United States courts are prepared to review administrative findings which are not supported by substantial evidence, that is by "such relevant findings as a reasonable man may accept adequate to support a conclusion". But in England and in India, the courts stop short at merely inquiring whether the grounds on which the authority has reached its subjective satisfaction are such that any reasonable person could possibly arrive at such satisfaction. "If", to use the words of Lord Greene, M.R., in Associated Provincial Picture Houses Ltd. v. Wednesbury Corporation [(1948) 1 KB 223 : (1947) 2 All ER 680] words which have found approval of the House of Lords in Smith v. West Ellor Rural District Council [1956 AC 736 : (1956) 1 All ER 855] and Fawceit Properties Ltd. v. Buckingham County Council [1961 AC 636 : (1960) 3 All ER 503] -- "the authority has come to a conclusion so unreasonable that no reasonable authority could ever have come to it, then the courts can interfere". In such a case, a legitimate inference may fairly be drawn either that the authority "did not honestly form that view or that in forming it, he could not have applied his mind to the relevant facts". Ross v. Papadopollos [(1958) 1 WLR 546 : (1958) 2 All ER 28] . The power of the Court to interfere in such a case is not as an Appellate Authority to override a decision taken by the statutory authority, but as a judicial authority which is concerned, and concerned only, to see whether the statutory authority has contravened the law by acting in excess of the power which the Legislature has confided in it. It is on this ground that the order of preventive detention made by the District Magistrate in Debu Mahto v. State of West Bengal [(1974) 4 SCC 135 : 1974 SCC (Cri) 274] was struck down by this Court. There , in that case , one single solitary act of wagon breaking was relied upon by the District Magistrate for reaching the satisfaction that with a view to preventing the detenu from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of supplies and services to the community, it was necessary to detain him. This Court pointed out subject to certain reservations that it was difficult to see how "one solitary isolated act of wagon breaking committed by the petitioner could possibly persuade any reasonable person to reach the satisfaction that unless the petitioner was detained he would in all probability indulge in further acts of wagon breaking". This Court did not go into the adequacy or sufficiency of the grounds on which the order of detention was based, but merely examined whether on the grounds given to the detenu, any reasonable authority could possibly come to the conclusion to which the District Magistrate did. It is true that this ground in a sense tends to blur the dividing line between subjective satisfaction and objective determination but the dividing line is very much there howsoever faint or delicate it may be, the courts have never failed to recognise it. 11. This discussion is sufficient to show that there is nothing like unfettered discretion immune from judicial reviewability. The truth is that in a Government under law, there can be no such thing as unreviewable discretion. "Law has reached its finest moments", said Justice Douglas, "when it has freed man from the unlimited discretion of some ruler, some ... official, some bureaucrat.... Absolute discretion is a ruthless master. It is more destructive of freedom than any of man's other inventions". United States v.Wunderlick [(1951) 342 US 98] . And this is much more so in a case where personal liberty is involved. That is why the courts have devised various methods of judicial control so that power in the hands of an individual officer or authority is not misused or abused or exercised arbitrarily or without any justifiable grounds." Thus, while recognizing the grounds on which such a subjective satisfaction could be challenged, the Supreme Court definitely recognized the following grounds of challenge:- The above test has largely been consistently applied in cases involving validity of preventive detention. Applying the aforesaid test, even if the satisfaction claimed by the executive is taken to exist in the shape of the grounds of detention, it has to be seen whether the same would survive the aforesaid test laid down by the Supreme Court. Undisputedly, the detention order was first issued on 13.02.2020 and not before. Therefore, as for the subjective satisfaction to arise, it is the facts and circumstances that were existing on that day and/or at that point in time that had to be borne in mind before a valid satisfaction could arise that the detention of the detenue was necessary to maintain "public order" at Aligarh. Testing the action taken against the detenue on the above principle, it appears other things apart, there is a serious lack of objective material on record as may have given rise to a valid subjective satisfaction with the detaining authority to preventively detain the detenue on 13.02.2020. The exact nature of the contents of the lecture delivered by the detenue on 12.12.2019 at the Bab-e-Syed Gate of the AMU (as claimed by the state authorities), even if accepted to be correct, it cannot be overlooked that, that material could not be relevant for the purpose of satisfaction being drawn two months thereafter, inasmuch during that period of two months, undisputedly, the detenue neither visited the city of Aligarh nor he made any further or other speech or lecture connected thereto nor there is any material shown to us that the detenue was about to commit any act in furtherance thereto or was going to deliver any other speech or lecture connected thereto as may have prejudiced the public order. Mere apprehension expressed in the grounds of detention, not founded on any material shown to exist on record, if allowed to stand, would fall foul with the test laid down by the Supreme Court in Khudi Ram Das (supra), inasmuch as, neither there is any objective material giving rise to the subjective satisfaction nor the subjective satisfaction is found to have been reached in a legal and regular manner but on whim and humour. Then, insofar as the occurrences of the dates 13.12.2019 and 15.12.2019 are concerned, in the first place, they were also more than two months prior to the date of issuance of order of preventive detention. By very nature, the order of preventive detention could have been issued to prevent an occurrence but not punitively or merely by way of a consequence of the occurrences that were two months old. Even otherwise, with respect to those occurrences, two separate criminal cases being Case Crime Nos.703 of 2019 and 704 of 2019 were admitted to have been lodged against different individuals. During the course of arguments, it has also been submitted that chargesheets have been submitted in those cases against other persons, excluding the present petitioner. In absence of any other material existing on record, it cannot be said, at this stage, that there was any link between the stage when the lecture was delivered by the detenue on 12.12.2019 and the occurrences dated 13.10.2019 and 15.10.2019. That apart, again there is a complete lack of material on record to link those occurrences i.e. the lecture delivered by the detenue on 12.12.2019, and the violent occurrences of 13.12.2019 and 15.12.2019 referred to in the ground of detention and the formation of the satisfaction to preventively detain the detenue on 13.02.2020. In this regard, it may also be noted that on 12th December, 2019 the Citizenship Amendment Bill was assented to by His Excellency, the President of India. Thus, the contention based on the contents of the lecture delivered by the detenue on 12.12.2019 apart, the State authorities have failed to discharge their bounden burden to establish that the lecture delivered by the appellant on 12.12.2019 had such a deleterious effect on the public order in district-Aligarh as had continued to exist up to 13.02.2020 necessitating preventive detention of the detenue, on that later date. In that regard, it may further be borne in mind that delay in passing of detention orders or in recording subjective satisfaction to preventively detain a person may not be a subject matter of a hard and fast rule, yet the record must itself indicate that there existed a continuing casual link between the satisfaction claimed to have been recorded and the offending act. In Gora Vs State of West Bengal , reported in (1975) 2 SCC 14, it was held: Later, the conspectus of law on the point was considered in T.A. Abdul Rahman Vs. State of Kerala & Ors. , reported in 1989 (4) SCC 741, wherein it was observed as below: