1. Heard the parties. 2. The petitioner apprehends his arrest in connection with

 Medanichowki (Medani Chauki) P.S. Case No. 126 of 2014

 dated 04.12.2014 registered for the offence under Section 420 / 120B of the I.P.C. 3. The prosecution case is that on 13.08.2013 an

 advertisement was published in Dainik Jagran News Paper for

 SMS job and on the basis of newspaper advertisement regarding

 job the informant contacted on mobile phone number mentioned

 in the advertisement. Thereafter, the accused persons demanded

 a sum of Rs. 2,20,000/- in exchange for securing a SMS job for

 the informant. Subsequently the informant deposited the same to

 the account of co-accused persons along with the petitioner by
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.78428 of 2024(2) dt.05-12-2024 2/3 way of various bank transactions but the petitioner did not

 provide job to the informant. It is further stated that the

 informant made numerous calls to the petitioner and other co-

 accused persons but they stopped receiving the calls and

 disconnected the phone. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that petitioner

 has not made any telephone call to the mobile number of the

 informant and the mobile number provided by the informant do

 not belong to the petitioner which clearly shows that the

 petitioner himself became a victim of circumstance and he was

 also cheated by one Sonu Kumar who is the associate of other

 accused persons. He further submits that the petitioner is a

 farmer and he has no knowledge of the banking system and he

 opened the account only for the purpose of agricultural loan and

 he himself became a victim of circumstance and Sonu Kumar

 cheated the petitioner and replaced his ATM Card with fake

 ATM Card. He next submits that charge sheet has not been

 submitted till date. 5. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused

 the materials on record. The petitioner cheated the informant in

 the name of providing job. The Police recovered a large number

 of mobiles, Aadhaar Cards, PAN Cards, Pass Books, ATM
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.78428 of 2024(2) dt.05-12-2024 3/3 Cards, Laptops, Finger Scanner Machine from accused persons

 and the fact that all accused persons appears to have formed a

 gang to defraud the innocent public and the phishing/cyber

 fraud is rampant in the area where the attackers try to trick

 individuals into providing user names, password and other

 details and are indulged in e-mail phishing, voice phishing,

 SMS phishing etc. and the case is still under investigation, for

 which, custodial interrogation of the petitioner may be required

 as well as the fact that in this case the F.I.R. was lodged long

 back in the year 2014 and the petitioner has approached this

 court after ten years in the year 2024 for grant of anticipatory

 bail, I am not inclined to extend the benefit of anticipatory bail

 to the petitioner. The prayer for the same is rejected. (Anil Kumar Sinha, J)
praful/-