R.C. Lahoti, J. L...I...T.......T.......T.......T.......T.......T.......T..J

 Harjeet Singh Sandhu, the respondent in S.L.P.(C)
No.5155/1998 was a captain in the Army. On the night
intervening 27th & 28th March, 1978, the respondent along
with three other officers interrogated one Bhagwan Das, who
was also a defence employee, in connection with an incident
of theft. During the course of interrogation the respondent
and his co-associates used third degree methods in orders to
extract	 a confession as a result whereof Bhagwan Das died.
A General Court martial (GCM, for short) was convened under Section 109 of Army Act, 1950 which tried the respondent and
the other officers.	On 26.12.1978 the GCM	awarded	 the
sentence of forfeiture of three years service for purpose of
promotion and	severe	reprimand to the respondent.	 The
confirming authority formed an opinion that the sentence
passed on the respondent was very lenient and therefore vide
order dated 19.4.1979, in exercise of the powers conferred
by Section 160 of the Army Act sent the case back	 for
revision. On 10.5.1979, the GCM, on revision, enhanced the
punishment inflicted on the respondent to forfeiture of
three years of service for the purpose of promotion and also
for the purpose of pay and pension. On 24.9.1979 the Chief
of the	 Army Staff in exercise of the power conferred by Section	 165 annulled the GCM proceedings on the ground that
the proceedings were unjust.	On 20.12.1979, a show cause
notice	was issued to the respondent under Section 19 of the
Act read with Rule 14 of the Army Rules, 1954	(hereinafter
the Rules, for short) calling upon the respondent to	show
cause why his services should not be terminated. Reply was
filed by the respondent defending himself. On 16.7.1982 a
fresh show cause notice was	 issued	 to the respondent
requiring him	to show cause	 why his service be	 not
terminated under Section 19 read with Rule 14. Both	 the
notices	 dated 20.12.1979 and 16.7.1982 recorded on the part
of the Chief of the Army Staff - (i) a satisfaction that the
respondents retrial by a court martial consequent to	the
annulment of the GCM proceedings was impracticable, and (ii)
formation of opinion that the respondents further retention
in the	 service was undesirable. The latter	notice	also
stated	that the earlier notice was thereby cancelled though
the reason for such cancellation was not mentioned.	 The
respondent filed a reply dated 9.9.1982 in	 defence of
himself. On 2.1.1984 the Chief of the Army Staff passed an
order dismissing the respondent from service.	On 16.2.1984
the respondent filed a civil writ petition before the	High
Court of Allahabad laying challenge	 to the order of
termination. The singular contention raised before the High
Court was that the incident, in which the respondent	 was
involved had taken place in the night intervening 27th &
28th March, 1978 and Court martial proceedings had become
barred	by time on 28th March, 1981 under Section 122 of the
Act whereafter Section 19 of the Act was not available to be
invoked. The	High Court of Allahabad in its impugned
judgment, formed an opinion that the decision of this Court
in Major Radha Krishan Vs. Union of India (1996) 3 SCC 507,
squarely applies to the facts of this case and therefore the
exercise of power under Section 19 read with Rule 14	 was
vitiated. The	 writ petition	 has been allowed and	 the
impugned order	 of termination dated	 2.1.1984 has	been
quashed. In S.L.P.(C) No.3233/2000 the respondent Harminder Kumar
was a Captain in the Army. In the year 1979 the respondent
was found blameworthy for discrepancies in respect of stocks
in Fuel Petroleum Depot, Leh between the period 10.3.1979 to
22.3.1979. Summary of evidence having been recorded, on
5.8.1981 a General Court Martial was ordered to be convened
on 18.8.1981.	 On 14.8.1981 the respondent filed a civil
writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India
in this Court wherein, by an interim order, the proceedings
in the	 court	martial	 were directed	to be	stayed.	 On
26.11.1982 the	 writ petition filed by the respondent	 was
dismissed, consequent	whereupon the interim order of	stay
also stood vacated. On 7.2.1983 the respondent was informed
that General Court Martial against the respondent was fixed
to be	convened on 28.2.1984.	 However, on 28.2.1984	 the
Chief of the Army Staff in exercise of the power conferred
by Section 19 read with Rule 14 issued a notice to	 the
respondent calling upon him to show cause why his services
be not terminated in view of the fact that the court martial
proceedings against the respondent were impracticable	 and
the Chief of the Army Staff was of the opinion that further
retention of the rspondent in the service was not desirable.
Immediately, the respondent filed a writ petition in	 the
High Court of	 Delhi	submitting that	 the general court
martial proceedings having become barred by time against him
on account of	 lapse of three years from the date of	 the
offence, the notice issued to him was without jurisdiction.
Vide order dated 8th September, 1998 the High Court	 has
held, placing	reliance on the decision of this Court in Major Radha Krishan Vs. Union of India (1996) 3 SCC	507,
that once the court	 martial proceedings	have become
time-barred the Chief of the Army Staff could not have	 had
recourse to Section 19 of the Act read with Rule 14 of	 the
Rules.	Consequently, the writ petition has been allowed and
show cause notice dated 8th February, 1984 directed to be
quashed. The Union of India has filed these petitions for special
leave to appeal. Delay condoned in filing SLP(C) No.5155/1998. Leave granted in both the SLPs. We	have heard Shri Altaf Ahmad, the learned Additional
Solicitor General for the appellant and Shri	Prem Prasad
Juneja,	 Ms. Indu Malhotra and Shri A. Mariarputham,
Advocates for the respondents.	The principal plea raised on
behalf	of the	 appellant and forcefully pressed by	 the
learned	 Additional Solicitor General at the time of hearing
was that Major Radha	 Krishans case	was not correctly
decided and therefore needs to be reconsidered by this Court
for two reasons : firstly, because Major Radha Krishans case is a decision rendered by two Judges-Bench which	does
not take notice of the law laid down by this Court in Chief
of Army Staff Vs. Major Dharam Pal Kukrety - (1985) 2	 SCC
412 which is three-Judges Bench decision; and secondly, the
proposition laid down	 therein is too wide a	 proposition
wholly	unsustainable in the light of the express provisions
contained in the Army Act and the Army Rules and	 the
underlying scheme of the Legislation. We	would first set out the facts in brief and the ratio
of the decisions rendered by this Court in the case of Major
Radha Krishan (supra) and Major Dharam Pal Kukrety (supra)
before	dealing with other contentions raised by the learned
counsel	 for the parties because the major part	 of
submissions made by the learned counsel centre around	 the
abovesaid two decisions. To	appreciate the ratio of the abovesaid two cases it
will be necessary to keep in view the provisions contained
in Sections 19 and 122 of the Army Act, 1950 and Rule 14 of
Army Rules, 1954 which are extracted and reproduced
hereunder :- Subject	 to the provisions of this Act and the rules	 and
regulations made thereunder the Central Government	 may
dismiss, or remove from the service, any person subject to
this Act. 122. Period of limitation for trial. - (1) Except as
provided by sub-section (2), no trial by court-martial of
any person subject to this Act for any offence shall be
commenced after the expiration of a period of three years
[and such period shall commence, - Army Rules, 1954

 [14. Termination of service by the Central Government
on account of	 misconduct. - (1) When it is	proposed to
terminate the	service	 of an officer under section 19 on
account	 of misconduct, he shall be given an opportunity to
show cause in the manner specified in sub- rule (2) against
such action - Provided that this sub-rule shall not apply - [(4) When	submitting a case to the Central Government
under the provisions of sub-rule (2) or sub- rule (3),	 the
Chief of the	Army Staff shall make	 his recommendation
whether	 the officers service should be terminated, and	 if
so, whether the officer should be - Other provisions of the Act and the Rules, to the extent
necessary, shall be adverted to as and when required. In Major Radha Krishans case the officer had committed
misconduct and the trial thereof by Court martial had become
time- barred under Section 122 of the Act whereafter, on
10.9.1990, a notice was issued by the Chief of the	Army
Staff to the officer which inter alia stated - and whereas
the COAS is further satisfied that your trial for the above
misconduct is	impracticable having become time- barred by
the time the court of inquiry was finalised and he is of the
opinion	 that	 your further	 retention in	service	 is
undesirable. This Court for the purpose of finding out the
meaning	 of impracticable, the term occurring in sub-rule
(2) of	 Rule 14, referred to dictionary meanings	 of
impracticable,	and inexpedient and then concluded that
impracticability is	 a concept	 different from
impossibility for while the latter is absolute, the former
introduces at all events some degree of reason and involves
some regard for practice. As the provision of limitation
prescribed under the Act prohibited a trial by court martial
being held on	 expiry of the period of limitation such a
provision could not be overridden by invoking Section 19 and
thus achieving	 a purpose by an administrative act which
could not be achieved by holding a trial under a statutory
provision. Once a misconduct was	 rendered legally
impossible and impermissible to be tried on account of	 bar
of limitation	it could not be said that the trial of	 the
officer	 was impracticable and therefore resort could not be
had to sub-Rule (2) of Rule 14. Vide para 10, yet another
reason	assigned by this court is that the satisfaction with
regard	to inexpediency or impracticability of a trial by
Court martial	must be arrived at only on consideration of
the reports of misconduct for the purpose of resorting to
Rule 14. The satisfaction regarding the inexpediency or
impracticability to hold a Court martial must flow from the
nature and the context of the misconduct itself and not from
any other extraneous factor such as that the Court martial
proceedings had become time-barred. This	 contention
advanced on behalf of the officer was, in the view of	 the
court,	indefensible.	Vide paras 11 and 12, this court
held that the misconduct and other attending circumstances
relating thereto have to be the sole basis for obtaining a
satisfaction within the meaning of Rule 14(2) and dispensing
with a trial on a satisfaction de hors the misconduct - like
the bar of limitation - will be wholly alien to rule 14(2). Dharam	Pal Kukretys case was neither placed	before	nor
considered by	the learned judges deciding Major Radha
Krishans case. Major Dharam Pal Kukrety was a permanent	commissioned
officer	 of the Indian Army holding the substantive rank of
Captain and acting rank of Major. He was tried by a general
court martial on four charges referable to certain incidents
which had taken place on November 6 and 7, 1975. On March
13, 1976 the court martial announced its finding (subject to
confirmation) of not	guilty of all the charges. The
confirming authority did not confirm the verdict and by
order dated April 3,	 1976 sent back the	finding	 for
revision. The	 same general court martial re-assembled on
April 14, 1976. Once again the general court martial,
adhering to its original view, announced the finding	that
the respondent was not guilty of all the charges (subject
to confirmation). On May 25, 1976 the confirming authority
refused	 to confirm the finding and promulgated, as required
by Rule 71, the charges against the officer, the findings of
the court martial and the	 non-confirmation thereof.
Thereafter, the Chief of the Army Staff exercising power
under Rule 14 issued a show cause notice dated November 12,
1976 which notice recorded inter alia the satisfaction of
the COAS that a fresh trial by a court martial for the said
offences was inexpedient, as also his opinion that	 the
officers misconduct rendered his further retention in	the
service	 undesirable.	The officer filed a	 civil	writ
petition in the High Court of Allahabad laying challenge to
the validity of the show cause notice. The contention of
the officer was that there was an initial option either to
have the officer tried by a court martial or to take action
against	 him under Rule 14 and the	option	having	been
exercised to try him by a court martial and	the officer
having been acquitted both at the time of the original trial
and on revision, it was not competent for the Chief of	 the
Army Staff to	 have recourse to Rule 14. The contention
found favour with the High Court. The High Court held that
the officer having been in fact tried by a court martial
twice and a verdict of not guilty having been rendered twice
the impugned notice under Rule 14 was without jurisdiction.
In the	 appeal preferred by Chief of the Army Staff before
this Court two contentions were raised on behalf of	 the
officer : firstly, that it could not be said that the trial
of the	 officer by a court martial	was inexpedient or
impracticable as in fact he had been tried	by a court
martial; and secondly, that on a true construction of Rule
14 the Central Government or the Chief of the Army Staff had
an initial option to have the officer tried	by a court
martial	 or to take action against him under Rule 14 and if
the decision to have the officer tried by court martial was
taken then action under Rule 14 was not permissible in case
of finding of acquittal being rendered by the court martial.
Vide para 14,	 this court noticed decisions	rendered by
different High Courts of the country throwing light on	 the
issue before the Court. Allahabad High Court was of	 the
view that in spite of non-confirmation of the finding	 and
sentence passed by the court martial such	finding	 and
sentence did exist though they could not be put into effect
for want of confirmation and therefore a second trial by
court martial would be barred.	 Jammu & Kashmir High Court
was of	 the view that the Legislature could not	have
reasonably intended that an officer convening a general
court martial can go on dissolving such courts martial	 and
reconstituting them ad infinitum until he obtained a verdict
or a finding of his own liking. Such a decision would	 not
only be against public policy and violative of the rule of
double	jeopardy but would also reduce the provisions of the Army Act to a mockery and give an appearance of mala fides.
Having noticed the decisions of High Courts, this Court then
concentrated on the question whether in such a case trial by
a court martial is inexpedient or impracticable? Dictionary
meaning	 of the term inexpedient was relied on.	 The Court
then summed up its conclusion as under :- AIR 1961 SC 751 the Constitution Bench has held, quoting
from Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes, that rules made
under a Statute must	 be treated for all	purposes of
construction or obligation exactly as if they were in	 the
Act and are to be of the same effect as if contained in the
Act, and are to be judicially noticed for all purposes of
construction and obligation; an action taken under the Act
or the rules made thereunder must confirm to the provisions
of the	 Act and the rules which have	conferred upon	 the
appropriate authority	the power to take an action.	 The
Constitution Bench decision has been followed by this court
in State of Tamil Nadu Vs. M/s Hind Stone - AIR 1981 SC 711
holding that a statutory rule, while ever subordinate to the
parent	statute, is, otherwise, to be treated as part of the
statute	 and as effective. [Also see Peerless General
Finance and Investment Co.Ltd.	Vs. Reserve Bank of India -
AIR 1992 SC 1033, para 54.] Section 19 and Rule 14 so read together and analysed,
the following legal situation emerges :- 3.	 Such satisfaction having been arrived at and	such
opinion	 having	 been formed,	as abovesaid,	the officer
proceeded against shall be given an opportunity to	show
cause against	the proposed action which opportunity shall
include the officer being informed together with all reports
adverse	 to him to submit in writing his explanation	 and
defence. Any report on an officers misconduct or portion
thereof	 may be withheld from being disclosed to the officer
concerned if the Chief of the Army Staff is of the opinion
that such disclosure is not in the interest of the security
of the State. 4)	Opportunity to show cause in the manner as abovesaid
need not be given to an officer in the following two cases
:- The	 case of an officer whose service is proposed to be
terminated on the ground of misconduct which has led to his
conviction by a criminal court is to be treated differently.
He need not be given an opportunity to show cause against
the proposed termination. A decision as to termination in
one of the modes provided by sub-rule (4) of Rule 14 can be
taken by the	Central	 Government on its own	 or on	 the
recommendation	of the	 Chief	of the	 Army Staff if he
considers that	 the conduct of the officer leading to	 his
conviction renders his further retention	in service
undesirable in which case his recommendation accompanied by
a certified copy of the judgment of	the criminal court
convicting him shall be submitted to the Central Government
which will take the decision in accordance with sub-rule
(5). The	 learned ASG submitted that the defence services
under the law of the land are treated as a class apart as
can be	 spelled out from the different provisions of	 the Constitution and the	Army Act and other laws. As	 the
defence	 of the country is involved, in the very nature of
the things, a	 cautious approach has to be adopted while
interpreting the several legal provisions, the security of
the State and	 welfare of the nation	being supreme.	 He
submitted that under the scheme of the Legislation there is
no warrant for holding that a decision to take action under Section	 19 read with Rule 14 or to convene a court martial
must be taken only in the first instance and before the time
limited for commencing court martial proceedings comes to an
end. He further submitted that power vesting in the Central
Government and Chief of the Army Staff under Section 19 of
the Act can be exercised whether before or after convening
and holding trial by court martial and even after the expiry
of the limitation prescribed by Section 122 for commencement
of the	 court	martial. On the other	 hand,	the learned
counsel	 appearing for the respondents	 (writ-	 petitioners
before the High Court) submitted that the scheme of the Army
Act and the Rules made thereunder provides for an officer
subject	 to the Army	Act being dealt	 with either by a
criminal court	 or by a court martial or by an	 appropriate
action	under Section 19 of the Act and cannot be subjected
to duality of	 the proceedings, or to one of the three
proceedings after the other one of the three has been set in
motion and accomplished. To be more specific, submitted the
learned counsel, once an officer has been subjected to court
martial proceedings or if such proceedings cannot be held or
have proved to be abortive as having become barred by	time
or impossible	or impermissible then Section 19 cannot be
invoked. In order to test the validity of	 such rival
contentions forcefully advanced before us we would examine
the scheme of the Act and the implications of the relevant
provisions contained therein. Army defends the	country and its	 frontiers. It is
entrusted with	 the task of	protecting against foreign
invasion and preserving the national	 independence.	 The
arduous	 nature of duties, the task they have to perform in
emergent situations and the	unknown	 lands	and unknown
situations wherein they have to function	 demand	 an
exceptionally high standard of behaviour and discipline
compared to their counterparts in civil services. That is
why the military people command the respect of the masses.
Such factors taken together demand the military services
being treated	as a class apart and a different system of
justice	 __ military justice __ being	 devised for them. Article	 33 empowers the Parliament to restrict or abrogate
fundamental rights in their application to the members of
the armed forces so as to ensure the proper discharge of
their duties and the maintenance of discipline among them.
Right to file special leave to appeal before	the Supreme
Court and power of superintendence vesting in the	High
Courts	do not extend over judgment, determination, sentence
or order passed or made by any Court or Tribunal dealing
with armed forces. Members of the defence services	hold
office	during	pleasure of the President under Article	 310 but they are	not entitled to the protection	 offered by Article	 311. The principles of interpretation of statutes
which apply to any other statute	also apply to	 the
legislation dealing with defence services; however,	 the
considerations	of the security of the State and enforcement
of a high degree of discipline additionally intervene	 and
have to be assigned	weightage while dealing with	 any
expression needing to be defined or any provision needing to
be interpreted. Section 19 , with which we are concerned, is to be found
placed	in Chapter IV of the Act entitled Conditions	 of
Service. Chapter VI deals with offences. Sections 34 to 68 , finding place in Chapter VI are very widely worded	 and
embrace	 within	 their	realm	practically every type of
misconduct, its abetment and attempt as well, which	 any
person	subject	 to the Act may commit. Section 69 defines
civil offences, the commission whereof shall be triable by a
court martial. Section 70 defines	civil offences	 not
triable	 by court martial.	 Chapter VII	deals	with
punishments. Therein Section 71 provides as under: (b)	 transportation for life or for any period not	less
than seven years; (c)	 imprisonment,	either rigorous or simple, for	 any
period not exceeding fourteen years; (d) cashiering, in the case of officers; (e) dismissal from the service; (f)	 reduction to the ranks or to a lower rank or grade
or place in the list of their rank, in the case of warrant
officers; and reduction to the ranks or to a lower rank or
grade, in the case of non-commissioned officers: According to Section 74 , before an officer is awarded
any of	 the punishments specified in clauses (a) to (c) of Section	 71 , he shall be sentenced to be cashiered. Other
provisions in this chapter are not relevant for our purpose. Under Section 101 , any person subject to this Act,	 who
is charged with an offence, may be taken into military
custody. Chapter X deals with Courts-Martial. Therein
under Section	121 , any person subject to this	 Act having
been acquitted or convicted of an offence by a court martial
or a criminal court shall not be liable to be tried again
for the same	offence. Section 122 ,	provides period of
limitation for commencement of trial by court martial.	Once
the period prescribed has expired a trial before a court
martial cannot be commenced. Under Section 153 no finding or sentence of a court
martial	 shall be valid unless confirmed as provided by	 the
Act. Section	158 gives power to confirming authority to
mitigate, remit or commute sentences. Section 165 empowers
the Central Government, the Chief of the Army Staff or	 any
prescribed officer to annul the proceedings of any court
martial on the ground that they are illegal or unjust. Misconduct	as a ground for terminating the service by
way of dismissal or removal, is not to be found mentioned in Section	 19 of the Act;	 it is to be read therein by virtue
of Rule 14. Misconduct is not defined either in the Act or
in the Rules.	It is not necessary to make a search for the
meaning, for it would suffice to refer to State of Punjab &
Ors. Vs. Ram Singh, Ex-Constable , (1992) 4 SCC 54 wherein
the term misconduct as used in Punjab Police Manual came
up for the consideration of this court. Having referred to
the meaning of misconduct and misconduct in office as
defined	 in Blacks Law Dictionary and Iyers Law Lexicon,
this court held :- An inquiry into the grave misconduct was made by Court of
Inquiry. The Chief of the Army Staff considered the conduct
of the officer unbecoming of an officer. He also formed an
opinion that trial of the officer by a general court martial
was inexpedient and, therefore, he ordered an administrative
action	to be taken under Rule 14 by removing	the officer
from service.	The order of removal was put in issue on the
ground	that the Army Act contained specific provision, viz. Section	 45 , for punishment for unbecoming conduct and as Section	 19 itself suggests that power being subject to the
provisions of	this Act, Section 19 would be	subject	 to Section	 45 and therefore the Central Government would	have
no power to remove a person from the service in derogation
of the	 provision of Section 45 . The plea was repelled by
this court holding that the power under Section 19 is an
independent power. Though Section 45 provides that on
conviction by	court martial an officer is liable to be
cashiered or to suffer such less punishment as mentioned in
the Act, for removal from service under Section 19 read with
Rule 14, a court martial is not necessary.	 The court
specifically held that the power under Section 19 is an
independent power and the two Sections 19 and 45 of the Act
are, therefore, mutually exclusive. It	is true that some of the punishments	provided by Section 71 as awardable by court martial are not necessarily
punishments, in the sense of the term as ordinarily known to
criminal jurisprudence, but are penalties as known to
service jurisprudence.	The fact remains that such penalties
have been treated as punishments awardable by court martial
under Section 71 of the Army Act, 1950.	 The power conferred
by Section 19 on the Central Government and the power
conferred on court martial by Section 71 are clearly
distinguishable	 from each other. They are not alternatives
to each other	 in the sense that the exercise of	 one
necessarily excludes the exercise of the other.	 The
distinction may be set out in a tabular form:- Is punishment awardable by court
martial.; punishment can be of
dismissal and/or cashiering
(cannot be removal or compulsory
retirement). 2. No enquiry is contemplated
except affording opportunity to
show cause as provided by Rule 14.
Punishment can be awarded only
on a trial being held in accordance
with the provisions of the Act. 3. There is no bar of limitation
provided for exercising the power
Courts martial cannot inflict any
punishment unless trial is
commenced with in the period of
limitation provided by Section 122. 4. Any person subject to Army
Act dismissed or removed from
the service by Central
Government is not previous
convict. Any person subject to Army Act awarded a punishment under Section 71 is a person convicted
by court martial 5. Any person proceeded against
under Section 19 does not suffer
any incarceration. Any person charged with an
offence may be taken into military
custody. 6. Satisfaction and formation of
opinion in Rule 14 may be based
on a single report of misconduct
or more than one or series of
such reports taken together. Punishment can be inflicted only
on the misconduct forming subject
matter of charge. 7. Penalty is guided by formation
of opinion on undesirability of
officer for future retention in the
service. Punishment would be determined
by gravity of proved misconduct
amounting to offence. It	is relevant to note that when an offence is triable
by a criminal court and also by a court martial, each having
jurisdiction in respect of that offence, a discretion is
conferred by Section 125 on the officer commanding to decide
before which court the proceedings shall be instituted.	 The
Parliament has obviously made no such provision in the	 Act
for the exercise of	a choice between proceeding under Section	 19 or convening of a court martial. The element of
such option, coupled	with the factors which would be
determinative of the exercise of option, is provided by Rule
14(2).	When an officer, subject to the Army Act , is alleged
to have committed a misconduct, in view of Section 125 and Section	 19 read with	 Rule 14, the	following situation
emerges. If the alleged misconduct amounts to an offence
including a civil offence, Section 125 , vests discretion in
the officer commanding the Army, Army Corpse	Division or
independent Brigade in which the accused person is serving
or such other officer as may be prescribed, to decide before
which court the proceedings	shall be instituted,	i.e.
before a court martial or a criminal court. If the decision
is to have the delinquent officer tried by a criminal court
and if he is acquitted by the criminal court, then that is
the end of the matter. The	 pronouncement	of judicial
verdict	 would	 thereafter	 exclude any	 independent
disciplinary action being taken against the delinquent
officer	 on the same facts which constituted the misconduct
amounting to an offence for which he was charged before the
criminal court.	 In the event of his being convicted if some
further	 disciplinary action is still proposed to be taken,
then it is the conduct of the officer leading to	 his
conviction (as found by the criminal court) which is capable
of being taken into consideration by the Central Government
or the COAS under sub-rules (3), (4) and (5) of Rule 14 for
the purpose of such action. The facts forming the conduct
of the	 officer leading to his conviction shall alone	form
basis of the formation of opinion as to whether his further
retention in service	is undesirable whereupon he may be
dismissed, removed or compulsorily retired from the service
in the manner prescribed by the said sub-rules.	 But, on the
other hand, if the initial	decision was to have	 the
delinquent officer tried not by a criminal court but by a
court-martial,	then under sub-rule (2) of Rule 14 it is for
the Central Government or the COAS to arrive at a
satisfaction whether the trial of	the officer by a
court-martial is expedient and practicable whereupon	 the
court-martial shall be convened. The Central Government or
the COAS may arrive at a satisfaction that it is inexpedient
or impracticable to have the officer tried by court-martial
then the court-martial may not be convened and additionally,
subject	 to formation of the opinion as to undesirability of
the officer for further retention in the service, the power
under Section 19 read with Rule 14 may be exercised. Such a
decision to act under Section 19 read with Rule 14 may be
taken either before convening the court-martial or	even
after it has	been convened	 and commenced	 subject to
satisfaction as to the trial by a court-martial becoming
inexpedient or	 impracticable	at which stage	the Central
Government or	the COAS may revert back to Section 19 read
with Rule 14.	It is not that a decision as to inexpediency
or impracticability of trial by court martial can be taken
only once and that too at the initial stage only and	once
taken cannot be changed in spite of	 a change in	fact
situation and prevailing circumstances. Section 127 was to be found in the Army Act as
originally enacted which provided that a person convicted or
acquitted by a court martial could be tried	again by a
criminal court	 for the same offence or on the	 same facts
subject to previous sanction of the Central Government.	 The
provision was deleted by Act No.37 of 1992. This deletion
is suggestive of the legislative intent to confer finality
to the	 finding and sentence of court martial	 subject to
their being confirmed and not annulled. Power to confirm
finding and sentence of court martial and the power to annul
the proceedings on the ground of being illegal or unjust,
both provisions read together indicate that the finding and
sentence of court martial if legal and just	have to be
ordinarily confirmed but they may be annulled on the ground
of illegality or unjustness. An obligation is cast on	 the
confirming authority to examine the legality and justness of
the proceedings before confirming them. Questions of
correctness, legality and propriety of the order passed by
any court martial and the regularity of any proceedings to
which the order of court martial relates can be raised by
way of petition under Section 164 . Once the finding and the
sentence, if any, have been confirmed, the court martial
being a special tribunal dispensing military	justice, it
would not be permissible to exercise additionally the power
conferred by Section 19 read with Rule 14 and to inflict a
penalty	 thereunder if the court martial has not chosen to
inflict	 the same by way of punishment under Section 71 . To
permit	such a course would be violative of the principle of
double jeopardy and would also be subversive of the efficacy
of the court martial proceedings, finding and sentence. So
long as a final verdict of guilty or not guilty, pronounced
by court material and confirmed by competent authority so as
to be effective is not available, the power to proceed under Section 19 read with Rule 14(2) exists and remains available
to be exercised. The	 learned counsel for the respondents submitted	that
the term impracticable has been used in Rule 14	in
contradistinction with impossible or impermissible and
therefore if a trial by court martial though practicable but
has been rendered impermissible because of a bar created by
the rule of limitation or rendered impossible because of a
fact situation then resort cannot be had to Section 19 read
with sub- rule (2) of Rule 14 by treating the impossibility
or impermissibility as impracticability.	The learned
counsel	 for the respondents went on to submit that	even Dharam	Pal Kukretys case required reconsideration as	 in
their submission it does not lay down the correct law. It
was urged that to the extent Dharam	Pal Kukretys case
treats	impermissibility as impracticability	 it is	 a
mistaken view. On the other hand, the learned ASG submitted
that Dharam Pal Kukretys case has correctly laid down	the
law and mistake has been committed by this court in deciding Radha Krishans case by over looking Dharam Pal Kukretys case and therefore Radha Krishans case must be held to have
been decided per incuriam. Let us first examine what is the meaning of term impracticable
in sub-rule(2) of Rule 14? In Major Radha Krishans case this court	 has held,
..When	the trial itself was	 legally impossible and
impermissible the question of its being impracticable, in
our view cannot or does not arise. Impracticability is a
concept	 different from impossibility for while the latter
is absolute, the former introduces at all events some degree
of reason and involves some regard for practice. According
to Websters	 Third	 New	 International	 Dictionary
impracticable means not practicable; incapable of being
performed or accomplished by	 the means employed or at
command. Impracticable presupposes that the	action	is
possible but owing to certain practical difficulties	or
other reasons it is incapable of being performed. The same
principle will	 equally apply	 to satisfy the test of
inexpedient as it means not expedient;	disadvantageous in
the circumstances, inadvisable, impolitic. It	must
therefore be held that so long as an offer can be legally
tried by a court-martial the authorities concerned may, on
the ground that such	 a trial is not impracticable or
inexpedient, invoke Rule 14(2). In other words, once	 the
period of limitation of such a trial is over the authorities
cannot take action under Rule 14(2). The	 above passage shows that the learned Judges went by
the dictionary meaning of the term impracticable, placed
the term by	 placing it	in juxta position	with
impossibility and assigned it a narrow meaning. With
respect to the learned judges deciding Major Radha Krishans case, we find	 ourselves not persuaded to assign such a
narrow	meaning to the term. Impracticable is not defined
either	in the Act or in the Rules. In such a situation, to
quote from Principles of Statutory Interpretation (Chief
Justice	 G.P. Singh, Seventh Edition, 1999, pp. 258-259),
when a	 word is not defined in the Act itself, it	 is
permissible to refer to dictionaries to find out the general
sense in which that word is understood in common parlance.
However, in selecting one out of the various meanings of a
word, regard must always be had to the context as it is a
fundamental rule that the meanings of words and expressions
used in an Act must take their colour from the context in
which they appear. Therefore, when the context makes the
meaning	 of a word quite clear, it becomes unnecessary to
search	for and select a particular meaning	out of	 the
diverse	 meanings a word is	 capable of, according to
lexicographers.	 As	stated	 by KRISHNA	 IYER,	 J.
Dictionaries are not dictators of statutory construction
where the benignant mood of a law, and more emphatically,
the definition clause furnish a different denotation.	 In
the words of JEEVAN REDDY, J.:	 A statute cannot always be
construed with the dictionary in one hand and the statute in
the other. Regard must also be had to the scheme, context
and to the legislative history. JUDGE LEARNED HAND
cautioned not to make a fortress out of the dictionary but
to pay	 more attention to the sympathetic and	imaginative
discovery of the purpose or object of the statute as a
guide to its meaning. In	Words and Phrases (Permanent Edition, Vol.20,	page
460- 461) it	is stated that the term impossible may
sometimes be	 synonymous	 with impracticable;
impracticable means not practicable, incapable of being
performed or accomplished by	 the means employed or at
command; impracticable is defined as incapable of being
effected from	 lack of adequate means, impossible of
performance, not feasible; impracticable means impossible
or unreasonably difficult of performance, and is a	much
stronger term	 than expedient. In	Law Lexicon (P.
Ramanatha Iyer, Second Edition, page 889)	one of	 the
meanings assigned to impracticable is not possible or	not
feasible; at	any rate it means something very much more
than not reasonably practicable. In The New Oxford
Dictionary of English (1998, at p.918), impracticable (of a
course of action) is defined to mean impossible in practise
to do or carry out. The same dictionary states the usage
of the term	in these words __ Although	 there	 is
considerable overlap, impracticable and impractical are not
used in exactly the	 same	way. Impracticable means
impossible to carry out and is normally used of a specific
procedure or course of action, . Impractical, on the
other hand, tends to be used in more general senses, often
to mean simply unrealistic or not sensible. We may with advantage refer to certain observations made
by the Constitution Bench (majority view) in Union of India
& Anr.	 Vs. Tulsi Ram Patel, (1985) 3 SCC 398. Article
311(2) ,	 proviso (b) contemplates a government servant being
dismissed or removed or reduced in rank, dispensing with an
enquiry, if it is not reasonably practicable to hold such
enquiry. The Constitution Bench dealt with meaning of	 the
expression reasonably	practicable and the scope of the
provision vide	 para 128 to 138 of	its judgment.	 The
Constitution Bench pertinently noted that the words used are
not reasonably practicable and not not practicable nor
impracticable (as is the term used in sub-rule(2) of Rule
14 of	the Army Rules). Thus, the decision in Tulsi	 Ram
Patels	case may not ipso facto throw light on	 the issue
before	us but	 some of the	 observations made by	 the
Constitution Bench can usefully be referred	to. A	 few
illustrative cases mentioned	by the	Constitution Bench,
wherein	 it may be not reasonably practicable to hold	an
enquiry, are:- The	 Constitution	 Bench	has further	 held	that
disciplinary enquiry is not expected to be dispensed	with
lightly	 or arbitrarily or out of ulterior motive or merely
to avoid the	 holding of an enquiry or because	 the
departments case against the government servant is weak and
must fail. It is not necessary that a situation which makes
the holding of an enquiry not reasonably practicable should
exist before the disciplinary enquiry is initiated against
the government servant;	 such a situation can also come into
existence subsequently	 during	 the course of	an enquiry.
Reasonable practicability of holding an enquiry is a matter
of assessment to be made by the disciplinary authority.	 The
satisfaction of the authority is not immune from judicial
review	on well settled parameters of judicial review of
administrative	decisions. However, if on the	satisfaction
reached	 by the authority two views are possible, the court
will decline to interfere. As	the term used	 in sub-rule (2) of	Rule 14 is
impracticable and not not reasonably practicable, there
is more an element of subjectivity sought to be introduced
by this provision in	 the process of arriving at	 the
satisfaction, obviously because the rule is dealing with the
satisfaction arrived at by the Central Government or	 the
Chief of the	Army Staff, in the matter of	disciplinary
action	on account of misconduct committed by an officer of
Army which decision would have been arrived at by taking
into consideration the then	 prevailing fact situation
warranting such decision after considering the reports on
officers misconduct. The	 learned Additional Solicitor General cited a	 few
examples wherein the trial by court martial may be rendered
impracticable, to wit:- On	the meaning which we	 are placing on the	term
impracticable as occurring in Rule 14(2) we proceed	to
provide	 resolutions to the several problems posed by	 the
illustrations given by the learned ASG.	 According to us: In	illustration (v), the ball will be in the court of
the delinquent officer.	 Once a stay order has been vacated,
in spite of the expiry of limitation for commencement of
court martial proceedings under Section 122 of the Act, the
option to have the delinquent tried by a court martial or to
invoke Section 19 read with Rule 14, depending on the facts
and circumstances of	an individual case, would still be
available to the Central Government or the COAS. In Union
of India & Ors.	 Vs. Major General Madan Lal Yadav (Retd .),
(1996)	4 SCC 127, this court has invoked applicability of
the maxim nullus commodum capere potest de	injuria	 sua
propria	 __ no man can take advantage of his own wrong __ to
hold that the delinquent officer having himself created a
situation withholding	commencement of trial, he would be
estopped from pleading the bar of limitation and the trial
commenced on vacating of the judicial order of restraint on
court	martial	 shall	be a valid trial. The learned
Additional Solicitor General pointed out that although in
the category of cases illustrated by (v) above in case of an
offender who ceases to be subject to the Act, the Parliament
has by Act No.37 of 1992 amended sub-section (2) of Section
123 so as to exclude the time during which the	 institution
of the proceedings in respect of the offence has been stayed
by injunction	or order from	 computing the period of
limitation but a similar provision is not made in respect of
the period of limitation for trial by court martial of	 any
person	subject	 to the Act, as the respondents herein	are.
This deliberate omission by the Parliament to provide	 for
exclusion from calculating period of limitation in Section
122 on the lines of the provision for exclusion in Section
123 lends strength to his submission that in as much as a
person subject to the Act would be amenable to Section 19 of
the Act even after the expiry of the period of limitation
for trial, provision for extension in period of limitation
under Section	122 was unnecessary. If the expiry of	 the
period	of limitation for commencement of court martial	 was
to be	given effect to, the consequence to follow would be
that the person would not be liable to be tried by a court
martial	 and hence would also not be liable to be inflicted
with a	 wide variety	of punishments	awardable by court
martial	 under Section 71 ; nevertheless he would be liable
to be	dismissed or removed from service under Section	 19 ,
though	that action shall be capable of being taken subject
to formation of opinion as to the undesirability of person
for further retention	 in service. We find merit in	 the
submission of the learned ASG. Having thus explained the law and clarified the same by
providing resolutions to the several illustrative problems
posed by the learned ASG for the consideration of this court
(which	are illustrative and not exhaustive), we are of	 the
opinion	 that the expiry of period of limitation under Section	 122 of the Act does not ipso facto take away	 the
exercise of power under Section 19 read with Rule 14.	 The
power is available to be exercised though in the facts	 and
circumstances of an individual case, it may be	 inexpedient
to exercise such power or the exercise of such power	 may
stand vitiated	 if it is shown to have been exercised in a
manner	which may be called colourable exercise of power or
an abuse of power, what at	 times	is also termed in
administrative	 law as fraud	 on power. A	 misconduct
committed a number of years before, which was not promptly
and within the prescribed period of limitation subjected to
trial by court martial, and also by reference to which	 the
power under Section 19 was not promptly exercised may cease
to be	relevant by long lapse of time. A subsequent
misconduct though less serious may aggravate the gravity of
an earlier misconduct and provide need for exercise of power
under Section	19 . That would all depend on the facts	 and
circumstances of an individual case. No hard and fast rule
can be laid down in that behalf. A broad proposition	that
power under Section 19 read with Rule 14 cannot be exercised
solely on the ground of court martial proceedings having not
commenced within the	period of limitation prescribed by Section	 122 of the Act, cannot be accepted. In the scheme
of the Act and the purpose sought to be achieved by Section
19 read with Rule 14, there is no reason to place a narrow
construction on the term impracticable and therefore	on
availability or happening of such events as render trial by
court-martial impermissible or legally impossible or	 not
practicable, the situation would be covered by	 the
expression - the trial by court-martial having become
impracticable. Exercise of power under Section 19 read with Rule 14 is
open to judicial review on well settled parameters of
administrative	 law	governing judicial	 review	 of
administrative	action such as when the exercise of power is
shown to have been vitiated by malafides or is found to be
based wholly on extraneous and/or irrelevant grounds or is
found to be a clear case of colourable exercise of/or abuse
of power or what is sometimes called fraud on power,	i.e.
where the power is exercised for achieving an oblique	end.
The truth or correctness or the adequacy of the material
available before the authority exercising the power cannot
be revalued or weighed by the court while exercising power
of judicial review. Even if some of the material, on which
the action is taken is found to be irrelevant, the court
would still not interfere so long as there is some relevant
material available on which the action can be sustained.
The court would presume the validity of the	exercise of
power but shall not hesitate to interfere if the invalidity
or unconstitutionality	 is clearly demonstrated. If	 two
views are possible, the court shall not interfere by
substituting its own	satisfaction or opinion for	 the
satisfaction or opinion of the authority exercising	 the
power. We	are also of the opinion that Major Radha Krishans case lays down propositions too broad to be acceptable to
the extent it holds that once the period of limitation	 for
trial by court martial is over, the authorities cannot take
action	under Rule 14(2). We also do not agree with	 the
proposition that for the	 purpose of Rule 14(2),
impracticability is a concept different from impossibility
(or impermissibility,	for that matter). The view of	 the
court in that	 case should be treated as confined to	 the
facts and circumstances of that case alone. We agree	with
submission of the learned Additional Solicitor General that
the case of Dharam Pal Kukrety being a Three- Judges Bench
decision of this court, should have been placed before	 the
Two-Judges Bench which heard	 and decided Major Radha
Krishans case. Reverting back to the two cases under appeal before us,
we are of the opinion that the High Court was not right in
allowing the two writ petitions filed by Harjeet Singh
Sandhu	and Harminder	Kumar,	 respectively,	by placing
reliance on the decision of this court in Major Radha
Krishans case and holding that the exercise of power under Section 19 read with Rule 14 by the COAS was vitiated solely
on account of the bar of limitation created by Section	 122 of the Act. Both the judgments of the High Court, which are
under appeal,	are accordingly set aside and the	writ
petitions filed by the two respondents are directed to be
dismissed. However, consistently with the observation made
by this court vide para 18 of Major Dharam Pal Kukretys case, we would like to impress upon the Chief of the	Army
Staff and the Central Government, as the case may be,	that
the incidents leading to action against the two respondents
are referable	to late 70s. By this time a period of	more
than 20 years has elapsed in between.	Before any decision
to initiate disciplinary action against any	of the	 two
respondents is	 taken,	 the conduct and behaviour of	 the
respondents concerned	during the intervening period shall
also be taken into consideration while deciding upon	 the
desirability of proceeding further in the matter at	this
belated	 stage,	 and keeping in view, of course,	 the
requirement of military discipline and the high traditions
of the Indian Army. No order as to the costs.