% 17.08.2020

 This matter is being heard through video-conferencing.
I.A. 6951/2020 & 6952/2020 (for exemption)
 Exemption allowed subject to all just exceptions. Applications are disposed of. I.A. 6953/2020 (by plaintiffs seeking exemption from filing the court fee)
 For the reasons stated in the application, the same is allowed.
 Subject to the applicants / plaintiffs filing the necessary Court fee
within 72 hrs from the date of resumption of regular functioning of the
Court, as mandated in terms of Office Order dated April 04, 2020 issued by
this Court, exemption from filing the requisite court fees is granted. Application is disposed of. I.A. 6954/2020 (by plaintiffs seeking permission to file additional
documents)
 For the reasons stated in the application, the same is allowed. The
applicants / plaintiffs are permitted to file additional documents within 30
days. Application is disposed of. I.A. 6955/2020 (by the plaintiffs seeking permission to serve the
defendant Nos.1 to 23 through electronic mail)

 This application has been filed by the plaintiffs with the following
prayers: Defendant nos. 9 to 23 are being represented today in the Court. The
plaintiffs are exempted from serving the other defendants through electronic
mode. The application stands disposed of. CS(COMM) 324/2020 1. At the outset, Mr. Rajshekhar Rao, learned counsel appearing for
 plaintiffs submits, on his oral request the Court may permit the plaintiffs to
implead the Corporate Office of defendant nos. 9 to 23 Banks. The said
request is allowed. Let amended memo of parties within a week. 2. Issue summons. Mr. Brijesh Kumar Tamber, Adv. accepts notice
defendant nos. 9 to 11 & defendant nos. 19 and 20 and their corporate
offices. Mr. Jitender Mohapatra, learned counsel accepts notice for
defendant nos. 12 to 17 and defendant no.22 and their corporate offices.
Ms. Ekta Khangawal, Adv. accepts notice for defendant no. 18 and its
corporate office. Mr. Rajiv Kapur, Adv. accepts notice for defendant no.21
and Mr. Puneet Bhalla, Adv. accepts notice for defendant no. 23. Written
statement / affidavits be filed within 30 days. Replication / reply affidavits
be filed within 30 days thereafter. 3. Let summons be issued to the other defendants, returnable before
Joint Registrar on December 1, 2020. 4. Summons shall state that the written statement shall be filed by the
defendants within 30 days from the date of receipt of summons. The
defendants shall file their affidavit of admission and denial of documents
filed by the plaintiffs. Replication shall be filed within 30 days of the receipt
of the, written statement / documents. The replication shall be accompanied
by the affidavit of admission denial of documents filed on behalf of the
defendants. 5. If any of the parties wish to seek inspection of any documents, the
same shall be sought and given within the time lines. I.A. 6950/2020 (by plaintiffs under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC ) 6. Notice. Learned counsel as above accepts notice for defendant nos. 9
to 23. Reply / affidavit if any be filed by the defendants before the next date
 of hearing. Let notice on this application be issued to the other defendants
through all modes, including e-mail returnable on November 2, 2020. 7. It is the submission of Mr. Rajshekhar Rao, learned counsel appearing
for the plaintiffs that plaintiff no.1 had established business in relation to
quick service restaurants, offered under the brand "McDonald's", which
started in the United States of America. In 1968, plaintiff No. 1 created the

Golden Arches Logo in yellow colour and adopted and started using
the same with its trade mark "McDonald's". In order to protect its valuable
intellectual property rights globally, plaintiff no.1 had applied and obtained
registrations of its McDonald's family of trade names in over 100 countries
around the world. On July 12, 1994, plaintiff no.1 registered the top-level
domain name www.mcdonalds.com and has an interactive corresponding
website which provides detailed information about its food service and its
various menu offerings. 8. In the year 1993, plaintiff no.1 was given approval by the Govt. of
India to operate a chain of restaurants in India through its wholly owned
subsidiary company McDonalds India Pvt. Ltd., i.e., the plaintiff no.2
herein. The same was incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 with the
Registrar of Companies, Delhi on August 30, 1993. Mr. Rao states that
plaintiff no.1 applied for and obtained registration over its tradename

McDonalds, Golden Arch Logo , Mc, Mac and its operations thereof in
India in the relevant classes. In support of his submission, he has drawn my
attention to Paragraph 25 of the plaint. According to him, even the plaintiff
no.1 got registered its top level domain name www.mcdonalsindia.com on
June 1, 1998, which it maintains for Indian consumers and general public. 9. According to Mr. Rao on June 5, 2019, plaintiff through the officials
of their franchisee came to know that a person namely Mr. Jackie D.
Chatlani claimed that he has been contacted by some persons under the
pretence of providing him a McDonald's Franchise. Thereafter from the
very same day, the franchisees of the plaintiffs started receiving several e-
mails at their official e-mail IDs, messages on LinkedIn profiles, profiles,
calls, couriers at their office addresses, containing signed fake and forged
McDonald's franchise application forms, fake approval letters on the
fabricated letter head of McDonald's. Pursuant thereto, plaintiff no.2 filed a
complaint with the concerned Police Station requesting an investigation into
the fraudulent activities being carried out misusing the tradename of
McDonalds, its GSTIN and registered address of its franchisee and
registration of FIR. 10. According to him, even a supplementary complaint dated August 6,
2019 and October 3, 2019 were filed with the same police station. In fact, a
caution notice was also issued in the leading newspaper. He states, even the
plaintiffs have filed a complaint with the domain Registrar for suspension of
the impugned domain names like mcdonaldfranchises.com. According to
him, on the basis of the complaint after one domain is suspended several
other mirror websites are created by the said persons / defendants to
continue their fraudulent and infringing activities. In fact, in some cases, the
names of websites are very similar to the blocked websites. 11. Mr. Rao also states, despite police complaint no action has been taken
by the concerned Police Station resulting in the plaintiff no.2 file a
complaint under Sections 156 (3) and 200 Cr.P.C. in the Court of learned
Metropolitan Magistrate, Patiala House Courts, New Delhi seeking
 directions for registration of a FIR. He states, similar complaint has been
made to the Principal Commissioner, GST, Delhi. He concedes to the fact
that on the basis of the complaint made by the prospective investor the
Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police has registered an FIR under Section 420 / 468 of the IPC along with Sections 66 , 66 C and 66 D of the Information
Technology Act, 2000 and the investigations are being made. 12. In substance, it is his submission that defendant no. 24 are the
fraudulent people who are misusing the plaintiffs' names, registered
McDonald's family of Trade Marks and Copyright in the artistic work of the

Golden Arches Logo / . They are engaged in registering
misleading domain names incorporating the trade mark McDonald's and
operating fake websites thereupon to invite the general public to apply for
McDonald's Franchise opportunities, collecting monies from them illegally
and fraudulently, without any permission and authorization from the
plaintiffs and their affiliates. However, the whereabouts of these defendants
are not known to the plaintiffs and there is a reasonable apprehension that
there is a big group of Imposters and may include some bank officials and
website developers also, who are involved in these illegal and fraudulent
activities. According to him, it is in this background the present Suit has
been filed impleading the Banks wherein the accounts have been opened by
the defendant no.24 to siphon off the money received from the applicants
under the guise of granting them the franchise. 13. During the course of hearing, Mr. Rao has also drawn my attention to
Pages 157, 158 and 234, which are the customers acknowledgement slip
depicting the deposit of certain amount of monies in the beneficiary name as
 McDonalds India Pvt. India Ltd. 14. Having heard Mr. Rao and learned counsel appearing for defendant
nos. 9 to 23 who are present before this Court today, this Court is of the
view that the plaintiffs have made out a prima facie case in their favour and
the balance of convenience is also in favour of the plaintiffs. Irreparable loss
shall be caused if the interim order as sought for is not granted.
Accordingly, (a) defendants No. 24 by themselves, their directors, partners,
proprietors, agents, servants, representatives, employees and/or any one
claiming under them, directly or indirectly are restrained from infringing
plaintiff No. 1's registered trademarks, including McDonald's and the

Golden Arches Logo and its variations or any other
confusingly and deceptively similar trade mark thereto by offering fake
McDonald's franchise opportunities to the general public. (b) The
defendants No. 24 by themselves, their directors, partners, proprietors,
agents, servants, representatives, employees or any one claiming under
them, directly or indirectly are restrained from in any manner infringing
plaintiff No. 1's Copyright in the artistic work of the Golden Arches Logo

 / by using, publishing, advertising, circulating the same in
any manner, in respect of their services and business. (c) Further,
defendants No. 24 by themselves, their directors, partners, proprietors,
agents, servants, representatives, employees or any one claiming under
them, from in any manner, directly or indirectly are restrained from
misusing the plaintiffs' name, McDonald's FAMILY OF TRADE MARKS,
registered address, GSTIN of the Plaintiffs and their franchisee, domain
 names, websites, business paper, corporate stamps etc. or any other similar
business identification, in relation to their business and services so as to pass
off or enable others to pass off their goods, services and business as that of
the Plaintiffs. (d) The defendant Nos. 9 to 23 are directed to immediately
freeze the bank accounts of the Imposters/Defendants as mentioned in
paragraph 40 of this application. Registry while issuing notice to the defendant nos. 2 to 8 shall call
upon the said defendants to file an affidavit to disclose the complete identity
of the registrants of the domain names as depicted in Para 34 (g) of the
application from their records i.e., their names, address, phone numbers, e-
mail Ids, billing and payment details. Similarly, the defendant nos. 9 to 23
shall incorporate in their reply / affidavits the identity of the account holder
of the bank accounts, KYC documents, identity related documents, bank
statements from the date of opening of the accounts till date. 15. The provisions of Order XXXIX Rule 3 CPC be complied within two
weeks. V. KAMESWAR RAO, J
AUGUST 17, 2020/jg