This is second bail application filed on behalf of the applicant under Section
 483 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 ( Section 439 of Cr.P.C.). 2. The applicant is in custody since 07.08.2024 in connection with Crime
 No.16/2024 registered at P.S.- STF, District Bhopal, (M.P.) for the offence
 punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 468 , 471 , 255 , 260 and 120-B of IPC. 3. Prosecution story, in brief, is that present applicant Anubhav Dubey,
 during his posting in Bandhan Bank as well as Axis Bank got executed forged
 sale-deeds and on the basis of forged sale-deeds, got sanctioned loans from India
 Shelter Bank/Bandhan Bank/Axis Bank. 4. Learned senior counsel for the applicant submits that after
 investigation, charge sheet has been filed. Applicant is in jail since 07.08.2024. In
 the instant case, one Sandeep Choubey is kingpin/mastermind of the whole scam. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:13723

 2 MCRC-7291-2025
 It is also urged that earlier applicant used to work as employee in Bandhan
 Bank/Axis Bank. There is no evidence on record to show that it is applicant, who
 opened fictitious accounts in Bandhan Bank/Axis Bank. It is also urged that the
 persons in whose name fictitious accounts have been opened have not been made
 accused/witness in the case. It is also urged that there is no document to show that
 applicant opened any account in Jana Bank or sanctioned/got sanctioned loan.
 Further, no application form for opening of account by present applicant or that he
 has sanctioned the loan is on record. 5. Learned senior counsel for the applicant after referring to statement of
 Devesh Soni submits that at relevant point of time, Devesh Soni was posted in
 Axis Bank and it was his duty to open the accounts. It is also urged that one
 fictitious account was opened in the name of Aarti Jain in Axis Bank by using ID

 of prosecution witness Devesh Soni. Statement of this Aarti Jain has not been
 recorded. Above account of Aarti Jain has not been opened by present applicant. 6. Learned Senior counsel for the applicant after referring to Ankur's Jain
 statement submits that in Axis Bank, fictitious account was opened in the name of
 Rajul Samdariya but statement of Rajul Samdariya is not on record. There is no
 evidence on record to show that on application form, signature is not of Rajul
 Samdariya. It is not established that it is the present applicant, who opened
 fictitious account in the name of Rajul Samdariya in Axis Bank. It is also urged
 that STF has written letter to India Shelter Housing Finance Limited (India Shelter
 Finance Corporation) but no reply has been received by the STF of aforesaid
 letter. It is also urged that initially, present case was registered on the basis of
 written complaints submitted by one Sumit and in written application, One
 Hinduja Housing Finance Company is mentioned. There is nothing on record to Signature Not Verified Signed by: S HUSHMAT HUSSAIN Signing time: 20-03-2025 14:25:05 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:13723

 3 MCRC-7291-2025
 show that applicant has any connection with aforesaid Hinduja Housing Finance
 Company. Applicant did not get open any account in Madhya Pradesh Gramin
 Bank. In aforesaid written complaint, primarily allegations are against Vikash
 Tiwari and his syndicate that they forged documents etc. and got loans
 sanctioned. 7. Learned senior counsel for the applicant further submits that it is
 correct that present applicant has taken loan of Rs.16,74,000/-from India Shelter
 Housing Finance Limited (India Shelter Finance Corporation) but it is also urged
 that it is the applicant himself, who has been cheated. Further, it is also urged that
 applicant has deposited installment of Rs.5 Lacs, which shows applicant's bona
 fide. If applicant has forged documents and fraudulently got loan sanctioned, then,
 he would not have deposited any installment, leave alone Rs.5,00,000/-. There is
 nothing on record to show that present applicant forged sale-deeds of plot owned
 by Sumit Kale and Nitesh. Relevant forged sale-deed has not been sent for
 examination to handwriting expert. Thus, there is no report of handwriting expert
 on record. As it is not proved that applicant forged sale deed, therefore, applicant
 cannot be charged under Sections 467 and 468 of IPC. In this connection, learned
 senior counsel for the applicant has relied upon Sheila Sebastian Vs. R.Jawaharaj ,
 AIR 2018 SC 2434. After referring to statement of Krishna Vishwakarma, it is
 urged that other persons are also involved in the case. 8. Learned senior counsel for the applicant further submits that so far as
 Jana Bank is concerned, it has been alleged that on the basis of sale deed executed
 by Sajjan, loan has been sanctioned but with respect to above, no document has
 been filed in the case. No amount has been credited into the account of present

 applicant. It is also urged that applicant is ready to deposit remaining amount out
 of Rs.16,74,000/- under protest. It is also urged that in the instant case, no Signature Not Verified Signed by: S HUSHMAT HUSSAIN Signing time: 20-03-2025 14:25:05 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:13723

 4 MCRC-7291-2025
 complaint has been lodged by India Shelter Housing Finance Limited. In the
 instant case, there are no sale-deeds on record. Learned senior counsel for the
 applicant further submits that applicant did not take loan from Jana Bank and
 there are no documents to show that applicant applied for grant of loan. Further,
 documents allegedly recovered from the Jana Bank with respect to loan by
 present applicant have not been sent for examination and till today, no expert
 report is available. It is also urged that investigation, so far as it relates to present
 applicant, is almost over. On above grounds, it has been prayed that the applicant
 be released on bail pending the trial. 9. Learned counsel for the State as well as objector submits that present
 applicant is Manager in Axis Bank and Bandhan Bank. In pursuance of further
 investigation, documents from Jana Bank have been seized and it is evident from
 documents available in the case diary, that the present applicant took loan from
 the property owned by Sumit as well as Rajneesh Gupta. It is also evident that
 applicant had taken loan after preparing forged documents. It is also urged that if
 the applicant was cheated, then, he must have lodged the report but applicant did
 not lodge any report. Therefore, it has been prayed the application filed by the
 applicant be dismissed. 10. Looking to the period of custody as well as stage of investigation, I
 am inclined to release the applicant on bail. Consequently, second bail
 application under Section 483 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023
 for grant of bail filed on behalf of applicant, stands allowed. 11. It is directed that applicant be released on bail on his furnishing a
 personal bond in the sum of Rs.25,000/- (Rupees Twenty Five Thousand
 only) with one solvent surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial
 Court, for his regular appearance before the trial Court during trial with a Signature Not Verified Signed by: S HUSHMAT HUSSAIN Signing time: 20-03-2025 14:25:05 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-JBP:13723

 5 MCRC-7291-2025

 condition that he shall remain present before the concerned Court on all the dates
 fixed by it during trial. He shall abide by all the conditions enumerated under Section 480(3) of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023. 12. This order shall be effective till the end of the trial. However, in case
 of bail jump and breach of any of the conditions of bail, it shall become
 ineffective. 13. Soft copy of this bail order immediately/forthwith be sent to applicants
 through concerned Jail Superintendent. 14. Certified copy as per rules. (ACHAL KUMAR PALIWAL)
 JUDGE

 Hashmi Signature Not Verified Signed by: S HUSHMAT HUSSAIN Signing time: 20-03-2025 14:25:05