SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J. 1. The instant application under Section 439 of the Code of the
 Criminal Procedure, 1973 (' Cr.P.C .') has been filed on behalf of
 applicant seeking grant of regular bail in case FIR bearing no.
 129/2022, registered at Police Station Special Cell, Delhi for the
 offences punishable under Sections 384 / 385 / 420 / 468 / 420 / 471 / 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (' IPC '). 2. The present FIR emerges from a complaint lodged by one
 Rohan Kapoor wherein it was alleged that he had received SMS
 messages for loan for third COVID-19 vaccine dose on his mobile
 phone, and the SMS also had a link for checking eligibility. As soon
 as the complainant had opened the link, one mobile application
 namely Express Loan had got downloaded. When the complainant
 had filled the details of his Aadhaar Card and PAN Card in the
 application after installing it, a sum of Rs.4,200/- had got instantly
 credited in his bank account. However, after four days of
 getting/availing such loan, he had started receiving threatening calls
 from the developers of Express Loan Application. It was further
 stated by the complainant that the developers of Express Loan
 Application had somehow got the access to the contacts stored in his
 mobile phone, and to threaten the complainant, the accused persons
 had started sending morphed images to his contacts. During the
 course of inquiry, the complaint against Express Loan Application
 was checked on the National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal and 46
 more complaints were found to have been registered against the
 alleged mobile application. Accordingly, the present FIR bearing no.
 129/2022 was registered at Police Station Special Cell for the
 offences punishable under Sections 420 / 384 / 385 / 468 / 471 / 120B of
 IPC. 3. Upon investigation, another complainant namely Aditya
 Sharma had reported that a sum of Rs. 25 lakhs had been extorted
 from him in different accounts by the accused persons by morphing
 his images and sending to his relatives. During the course of Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3700/2023 Page 2 of 9 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.12.2023 19:03:52 investigation, bank statement of complainant Aditya Sharma had
 revealed that via a link mentioned in the complaint, transaction
 amount had been received by the present accused/applicant namely
 Vineet Jhavar in his bank accounts. The details of such payments
 with transaction numbers is mentioned in the Status Report filed on
 record. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant/accused argues that the
 applicant has been falsely implicated in the present case and has been
 in judicial custody since 02.10.2022. It is stated that the complaint
 emerges from one Aditya Sharma who had told the police that he had
 transferred some account in the bank account of the applicant on the
 pretext of a loan. In this regard, it is argued that the present
 accused/applicant had no knowledge of the same and is not a
 beneficiary of the defrauded amount. It is further stated that accused
 is an innocent victim who himself was not aware of the transaction
 which were taking place in his bank account. It is argued by the
 learned counsel that the prosecution has neither been able to collect
 any evidence that the present accused/applicant was the beneficiary
 of the money deposited in his bank account, nor they have been able
 to find the trail of money. It is also stated that the accused had given
 his bank account details to one of his friends in good faith and was
 not aware about the transactions of his bank accounts. It is also stated
 that his wife had also left the job who was working in a bank and
 therefore, he at the said time, after his friend had asked him for his
 bank details, he had given his bank details to him. It is further
 contended that the SIM cards which were connected with the bank Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3700/2023 Page 3 of 9 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.12.2023 19:03:52 accounts were also given by the applicant to his friend and, thus, the
 applicant was not aware of any transaction that had taken place in his
 bank account. It is argued that the present applicant has been in
 judicial custody for the last one year for a crime which he has not
 committed and therefore, the present bail application be allowed. 5. Learned APP for the State, on the other hand, argues that there
 is an unexplained transaction of Rs.140 crores (approximately) in the
 bank account of the present applicant/accused, who is the main
 conspirator in the present case. It is further argued that the present
 applicant/accused used to operate a syndicate which used to defraud
 people of their hard earned money. It is stated that numerous
 innocent persons have been cheated of their hard earned money
 through such financial frauds. It is contended that the CDRs in this
 case support the prosecution's case that the co-accused and the
 present accused/applicant were in constant touch with each other. It is
 further stated that this Court had previously also dismissed the bail
 application of the present applicant on 13.02.2023 and there is no
 fresh ground mentioned in the present application, and therefore, bail
 be not granted to him. 6. This Court has heard arguments addressed by the learned
 counsel for applicant as well as learned APP for the State, and has
 perused material available on record. 7. In the present case, it was revealed during the investigation
 that the money which was transferred from the bank account of the
 complainant Aditya Sharma had been received in the bank accounts
 of present accused/applicant. Thereafter, the applicant Vineet Jhavar Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3700/2023 Page 4 of 9 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.12.2023 19:03:52 had left all the addresses which he had used for the opening the bank
 accounts in question. As per prosecution, the applicant was traced
 through rigorous Call Detail Records and IP logs analysis since he
 had also switched off all the mobile phones used for opening the
 bank accounts, and he could eventually get arrested on 01.10.2022. It
 is mentioned in the status report that as per investigation conducted
 in the present case, the analysis of the bank accounts of the applicant
 reveals that the total amount of transactions in the entire case,
 considering the bank account of all the persons who had worked in
 furtherance of their criminal conspiracy, is about Rs. 140 crores. It
 was also discovered that the money from the accounts of applicant
 was immediately transferred to several other bank accounts, the
 details of which also have been mentioned in the Status Report.
 During investigation, it was also revealed that applicant Vineet
 Jhavar was also giving instructions regarding company compliances
 to his Chartered Accountant. 8. A perusal of material on record, prima facie reveals that the
 modus operandi adopted by the present applicant/accused, was as
 follows: 9. A perusal of status report on record also reveals that large
 numbers of complaints have already been reported from across the
 country in which the present accused/applicant has been found
 involved. The account numbers and the transaction details are also
 mentioned in detail in the status report filed by the prosecution which
 have not been denied by the learned counsel for applicant. 10. This Court notes that the modus operandi employed by cyber
 criminals changes and evolves every day. Sensitised to the plight of
 unsuspecting individuals who fall victim to deceptive mobile
 applications, the Courts have the responsibility to address the
 grievances of those who, in their pursuit of technology, end up being
 defrauded of their hard-earned money. The app developers take
 advantage of cyber-illiteracy of the people, who unknowingly give
 access to their contacts and images to a mobile application and its
 developer, which is then misused to extort money from them. The
 personal details of the innocent people are also being taken and
 misused for committing fraud, as in the present case. 11. The case in hand serves as an illustration of how cyber-enabled
 crimes are taking place in the present digital age wherein the accused Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3700/2023 Page 6 of 9 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.12.2023 19:03:52 persons through a click bait link allure people towards installing an
 application commonly known as 'APP' in their mobile phones and
 then based on this allurement, the cyber illiterate common citizens
 download them or click the link totally oblivious to the fraud
 which will stare them in their eyes in a matter of few minutes or
 hours. The bait of getting them short term loans on a click of a
 button and defrauding them of their hard earned money is nowadays
 common and the cyber illiteracy of common citizens is being taken
 advantage of by such accuseds, as prima facie in the present case. 12. Such offences extend well beyond the immediate financial
 losses associated with fraudulent transactions, and it is the economy
 at large which suffers firstly through the immediate loss and
 secondly, it is the loss of the people's trust in the online financial
 transactions. 13. The economic impact is two fold - first, the direct financial
 losses incurred through the fraud of often hard earned money of
 gullible people, and second, the indirect losses resulting from the
 diminished trust of the people in online financial transaction
 platforms which is against the aspirations of an advanced Digital
 Bharat. In essence, these cyber-enabled offences not only breach
 individual trust, but also have far reaching consequences that
 reverberate through the economic landscape of the country. These
 online frauds contribute to eroding the trust of people in the online
 financial transactions and thus, discourage the newcomers into
 entering the digital realm, which negatively impacts the overall
 economy of the country. 14. The Courts, particularly in matters involving cyber-enabled
 crimes, should consider the broader societal impact on the small and
 at times financially weaker investors who invest their hard earned
 money in the hope of gains which holds larger dreams of many. 15. This Court also takes note of the fact that the alleged fraud in
 this case had taken place at the most difficult times for our
 country i.e. COVID-19 pandemic and its citizens during the said
 period were suffering losses, having lost business due to the
 pandemic and were looking for survival in the market and earning for
 themselves. The innocent investors who had deposited Rs. 4,000/- or
 Rs.5,000/- in the hope of obtaining loans for survival may have even
 afforded to deposit this amount with difficulty. The conspiracy in the
 present case must have attracted thousands of investors as the money
 trail till date is of about Rs.140 crores, prima-facie. 16. This Court is also of the opinion that in this case, Rs. 140
 crores were found in the bank account of the present applicant/
 accused and it is not convincing that he did not know about the
 dealings in his account statements, as the customers of the bank
 accounts get regular alerts about the transactions in their accounts.
 Further, as per applicant/accused himself his wife was also working
 in a private bank, and therefore they would have been aware that their
 bank accounts were being used by some other persons, for illegal
 purposes, as according to them the transactions amounting to
 approximately Rs.140 crores found qua their bank account did not
 belong to them. 17. Thus, considering all the facts, circumstances and aspects of
 the case, the conduct of applicant/accused with regard to vacating all
 the addresses used for opening bank accounts, and that he was
 apprehended only after rigorous CDR and IP logs analysis by Special
 Cell since he had already switched off all his mobile phones used for
 opening the bank accounts, this Court is not inclined to grant bail to
 the applicant at this stage, when the trial is yet to commence. 18. Accordingly, the present bail application stands dismissed. 19. It is however clarified that the observations made hereinabove
 shall not be construed as expression of opinion of this Court on the
 merits of the case. 20. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
 DECEMBER 6, 2023/zp Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3700/2023 Page 9 of 9 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.12.2023 19:03:52