1. The acquittal of the respondent ('the accused') of the offence punishable under Section 161 of the Indian Penal Code ('the IPC ' for short) and Section 5(1)(d) and 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act ('the Act' for short) recorded by the learned Special Judge, Mehsana vide judgment and order dated 16.10.1985 rendered in Special Case No. 3 of 1984 is the subject matter of challenge in instant appeal which is filed under Section 378 of the Code of Criminal Procedure ('the Code' for short) by the appellant ?" State of Gujarat. 2. The prosecution case as reflected from the complaint dated 19.12.1983 filed by Nagindas Tulsidas Acharya ('the complainant'), before Police Inspector, ACB, Mehsana and unfolded during trial was as under: 2.11. To prove the charge against the accused, the prosecution has also produced documents like complaint, Ex.37, panchnama Ex.34, letter of section to prosecute the accused, Ex.38, etc., and relied upon the contents thereof. 2.12. After recording of the evidence of the prosecution witnesses was over, the learned Special Judge explained to the accused the circumstances appearing against him in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses and recorded his further statement under Section 313 of the Code. In his further statement he denied the case of the prosecution in toto. Except producing his written statement at Ex.58, he has not led any evidence nor examined any witness to support his defence. 2.13. On appreciation, evaluation, analysis and scrutiny of the evidence on record, the learned Special Judge came to the conclusion that the evidence adduced by the prosecution is unreliable and not trustworthy as there was no reason for the complainant to give the illegal gratification to the accused as he was not responsible for the act of not utilizing the loan amount for the purpose for which it was sanctioned. It was also held that the panchas were selected and therefore they were interested witnesses and hence no reliance can be placed upon their oral testimony. On the aforesaid premises, it was held by the learned Special Judge that the prosecution has failed to prove the charge levelled against the accused beyond reasonable doubt and a doubt was raised on the prosecution case and hence he acquitted the accused of the offence with which he was charged giving rise to this appeal at the instance of the appellant ?" State of Gujarat. 3. Mr. KP Raval, learned APP for the appellant ?" State of Gujarat after taking us through the entire testimonial collections on the record has made the following submissions: 4. On the aforesaid premises, it is submitted by Mr. Raval, learned APP that case against the accused for demand, acceptance, and recovery of illegal gratification is proved and therefore he should be held guilty of the offence with which he was charged. He therefore submitted that the impugned judgment and order of acquittal of the accused deserves to be quashed and set aside by allowing this appeal. He therefore urged to allow this appeal and the accused may be held guilty of the offence with which he was charged and punish him according to law. 5. Per contra, Mr. U.S. Brahmbhatt, learned advocate appointed by this Court to assist the accused under Legal Aid, has vehemently contended that there is no reliable and trustworthy evidence with respect to motive of demand, acceptance and recovery of the bribe from the accused. He has further submitted that the prosecution evidence on record when minutely perused in face of settled principles of anti corruption case laws as to the appreciation of evidence, showed that the prosecution has utterly and miserably failed to prove the case against the accused and, therefore, accused deserved to be acquitted. He does not rest here. According to him, there is no substratum of the prosecution case and it was neither of the function of the accused to give the account or to satisfy the accused with respect to the loan which was sanctioned for purchase of furniture which was not utilized for the purpose for which it was sanctioned as he joined the service after the loan was sanctioned and utilized for some other purpose. Therefore, this basic significant aspect smashes the persecution case and the witnesses examined by the prosecution all are liers and therefore their evidence is required to be totally disregarded being false and fabricated. 6. His submissions can be catelogued as under: He therefore submitted that the appeal lacks merit and deserves to be dismissed. He therefore urged to dismiss the appeal. 6. We have considered the submissions advanced by the learned advocates appearing for the parties, taken into consideration testimonial collections in the nature of ocular evidence as well as documentary evidence and reported decisions of the Supreme Court laying down proposition of law with regard to appreciation of evidence in bribe case. 7. The case against the accused was for demanding and accepting illegal gratification to which he was not entitled to in his capacity as a public servant in discharge of his public duties. The ingredients of charge under Section 161 of the IPC and Section 5(2) of the Act may be briefly stated as follows: 8. When the first two ingredients are proved by the evidence, a rebuttable presumption arises in respect of the third ingredient and in absence of proof of first two facts, the presumption does not arise. On mere recovery of certain money from the person of accused without proof of payment or on behalf of such person to whom official favour was to be shown, the presumption cannot arise (See Sita Ram v. State of Rajasthan . 9. It must also be remembered that Section 161 of IPC does not require that the public servant must, in fact, be in a position to do the official act, favour or service at the time of the demand or receipt of the gratification. To constitute an offence under this section, it is enough if the public servant who accepts the gratification, takes it by inducing a belief or by holding out that he would render assistance to the giver 'with any other public servant' and the giver gives the gratification under that belief. It is further immaterial if the public servant receiving the gratification does not intend to do the official act, favour or forbearance which he holds himself out as capable of doing (See Chaturdas Bhagwandas Patel v. State of Gujarat ). 10. Another important test which must be remembered is that where the recovery of the money coupled with other circumstances leads to the conclusion that the accused received illegal gratification from some person, the Court would certainly be entitled to draw the presumption under Section 4(1) of the Act. Even under Section 114 of the Evidence Act, the Court may presume the existence of any fact which it thinks likely to have happened, regard being had to the common course of natural events, in their relation to the facts of the particular case (See Hazarilal v. The State (Delhi Administration) AIR 1980 SC 973). 11. Where in a trap case, the Judge magnifies every minor detail or omission to falsify or throw even a shadow of doubt on the prosecution evidence, then it would be the very antithesis of a correct judicial approach to the evidence of witnesses in a trap caste Indeed, if such a harsh touchstone is prescribed to prove such a caste, it will be difficult for the prosecution to establish any case at all (See State of Maharashtra v. Narsingrao Gangaram Pimple . 12. Thus, the Court of Special Judge should invariably be aware of the correct judicial approach in a trap caste and see that it does not enter into exercise of magnifying minor details and omissions only with a view to falsify witnesses and throw overboard the prosecution caste. 13. In the back drop of the aforesaid settled principles enunciated by the Supreme Court with regard to appreciation of evidence in a bribe case, we may now advert to the actual evidence on record to find out as to whether the prosecution has established its case against the accused that in his capacity as public servant he demanded and accepted the amount of Rs. 300/- as bribe from the complainant for not inspecting the fair-price shop. 14. In this connection, adverting to the oral testimony of the P.W.1, Nagindas Tulsidas, Ex.18, in his chief examination, inter alia, he has testified as per the averments made in the complaint at Ex.37. He has also testified that at the first instance the accused demanded Rs. 1500/- which was paid by him and accepted by the accused in the presence of Sadatkhan, Tolat of his office. In the examination-in-chief he has also testified as to how the trap was laid and the accused demanded illegal gratification in the presence of panch No. 1 which was given by him and accepted by the accused and on giving signal members of the raiding party assembled there and with the help of Panch No. 1 currency notes were taken out of the pocket of the shirt of the accused and experiment made on the currency notes, on the hands of the accused and on his hands with ultra violet lamp. In his cross-examination he has stated that he has hired a house from a person belonging to Scheduled caste and he is Vaishnav Brahmin by caste. He has admitted that he was not liable to repay the loan amount of Rs. 4,500/- which was sanctioned by the office of District Registrar to the Mandali. He has also testified that managing committee had passed a resolution to the effect that sanctioned loan was not required and therefore the said amount was credited to capital account and therefore the said amount was deposited in the District Cooperative Bank. According to him, office of the District Registrar was insisting that they should redeposit the said amount in the office of the District Registrar as they have not purchased the furniture. He has also testified that in his presence his office was inspected twice by the office of the District Registrar. The auditor of the office of the District Registrar has made a report that they should redeposit the amount of Rs. 4500/- as they have not purchased the furniture. It has also come in the evidence that he has informed the management to redeposit the said amount in the office of the District Registrar. The management informed him not to redeposit the said amount. He has further testified that his surname, is Acharya and another surname is Mehta. His name is Jayantilal Sadhu and his son-in-law is serving as police constable. His brother is also serving in computer section of the police department. He does not know as to whether both panchas are the members of Scheduled Caste. He has, however, admitted that both were serving in Social Welfare Department. 15. On reappreciation, reanalysis, reevaluation and close scrutiny of the evidence of P.W.1, Nagindas Tulsidas, the complainant, according to this court, it was the prosecution case that the accused has demanded Rs. 1500/- at the first instance and it was paid by the complainant and accepted by the accused in the presence of Sadatkhan, Tolat, working in the office of the complainant. However, though the investigating officer has recorded his statement, he was not examined by the prosecution. If the prosecution would have examined Sadatkhan, then the allegation with respect to the first demand of Rs. 1500/- and acceptance by the accused would have got support and the averments made by the complainant in his complaint would have been strengthened. Therefore, so far as the first demand of Rs. 1500/- and acceptance by the accused is concerned, the complainant's evidence does not get corroboration from independent source of evidence. Therefore, it has become doubtful whether Rs. 1500/- was ever demanded and accepted by the accused. It is also not swallow-able that for non-repayment of an amount of Rs. 4500/- one would demand Rs. 1500/- twice and that too when the complainant was not liable to repay the amount of Rs. 4500/- which was sanctioned by the office of the District Registrar, Cooperative Societies to the Mandali and the liability to repay the said amount of Rs. 4500/- was that of the Mandali. It is also reflected from his evidence that the managing committee has passed a resolution to the effect that sanctioned loan was not required and, therefore, the said amount was credited to capital account and hence the said amount was deposited in the District Cooperative Bank. If that be so, then why the complainant has paid Rs. 1500/- to the accused. A man of ordinary prudence would never accept the evidence of the complainant. It has also come in evidence that he has already informed the management to redeposit the said amount in the office of the District Registrar but the management has informed him not to redeposit the said amount. It has also come in evidence that he has identified himself with two surname, one Acharya and another Mehta and his name is Jayantilal Sadhu. Therefore, according to the petitioner, he is of a dubious character. It also impeaches his credibility. The sum and substance of the aforesaid evidence unequivocally suggests that he is not a witness of sterling quality and no reliance can be placed on his oral testimony unless it gets corroboration from another independent witness in that respect. 16. Now adverting to the oral testimony of P.W.2, Balvantbhai Kachrabhai Chauhan, recorded at Ex.33, who is Panch witness No. 1, he has testified that at the relevant time he was serving as C clerk in the office of the Social Welfare Department. He and one Vinubhai both were called by their superior officer Desai in his chamber and he informed both of them to accompany Head Constable. They therefore accompanied the Head Constable to the ACB Office. Both of them were called by Police Inspector Parmar. He ascertained their willingness to act as Panchas. Thereafter on showing their willingness they were introduced to the complainant and the complaint filed by the complainant was read over and explained to them. They also signed on the said complaint. Thereafter usual experiment with anthracene powder on the currency notes produced by the complainant was performed in their presence by Arvindbhai, Head constable. He has more or less stated the same version as stated by the complainant. It would be relevant to refer to the cross-examination of this witness made by the learned advocate of the defence. He has testified that he and another Panch both belong to Scheduled Caste. He has not denied that the complainant does not belong to Scheduled Caste. He has also testified that the surname of the complainant Naginbhai is Acharya and therefore he thought that he is a Brahmin. He also came to know through the complainant that he is a Brahmin. He denied that the currency notes were thrust into the pocket of the accused. On analysis of the evidence of the Panch witness No. 1, it reveals that both panchas belong to same community i.e., scheduled caste and also from the same office i.e., from the office of the Social Welfare Department. 17. On reappreciation, reanalysis, reevaluation and close scrutiny of the evidence on record, it has become doubtful as to whether the complainant belongs to scheduled caste or Brahmin caste. Therefore, the possibility cannot be ruled out that both the panchas are selectee either of the complainant or of the investigating officer. Panch No. 1 has also stated that he was the author of the panchnama as he dictated the panchnama to police constable. 18. On perusal of the oral testimony of Takhatsinh Muljibhai, P.I., A.C.B., Mehsana, Investigating Officer recorded at Ex.36, it is clear that he has not made thorough investigation. In his oral testimony and more particularly in cross-examination made by the learned advocate of the defence, he admitted that he has not inquired as to whether the amount of Rs. 1500 allegedly paid by the complainant to the accused at the first instance i.e., prior to lodging of the complaint was that of the society or of his personal money. He also admitted that he has not recorded the statement of the President, Vice President or any of the member of the Managing Committee and he had also inspected the books of accounts of the Mandali. He has not inquired from the complainant about the balance in the books of accounts of the Mandali. He has verified from the books of accounts of the Mandali that the loan amount of Rs. 4500 was not utilized for the purpose for which it was granted and it was to be repaid by the Mandali. He has not asked the explanation from the complainant why he has not repaid the said amount to the office of the District Registrar. He has unequivocally admitted that on seeing the books of accounts he came to the conclusion that the complainant was not responsible for repaying the amount of Rs. 4500. However, he did not find it proper to take further explanation from the complainant in this regard. So far as selection of Panchas is concerned, in para 3 of the cross-examination he has admitted that there are other government offices adjacent to his office and he could have procured service of the panchas from other office as well. However, he has called two panchas from the office of the Social Welfare Department which is far away from his office than other offices. He has also not inquired about the acquaintance of the complainant with the panchas. He had the knowledge that both the panchas belong to Scheduled Caste. He has also satisfied that the complainant was staying in the Schedule Caste society. So far as the writing of the Panchnama is concerned, he has admitted that he dictated the panchnama and police constable took down the dictation. 19. It may be noted at this stage that there is discrepancy in the evidence of Panch witness and investigating officer with regard to the authorship of the panchnama. As per the evidence of Panch No. 1 he was the author of the panchnama as he dictated the panchnama to police constable whereas as per the evidence of the investigating officer, he was the author of the panchnama and he has dictated the panchnama to police constable. 20. Be it as it may. According to us, from the aforesaid evidence of the panch witness No. 1 as well as the investigating officer the credibility of both of them are doubtful and it impeaches their credibility as they are not telling the correct version in the court. If the Panch witness is not the author of the panchnama then panchnama is merely an ornament without having the probative value and hence the panchnama is not a substantive piece of evidence and no reliance can be placed on it. 21. On reappreciation, reevaluation, reanalysis and close scrutiny of the evidence of the investigating officer, there is no manner of doubt that he has not investigated the case thoroughly. He has unequivocally admitted that on seeing the books of accounts he came to the conclusion that the complainant was not responsible for repaying the amount of Rs. 4500/-. However, he did not find it proper to take further explanation from the complainant in this regard. So far as selection of panchas is concerned, in para 3 of the cross-examination, he has admitted that there are other government offices adjacent to his office and he could have procured service of the panchas from other office as well. However, he has called two panchas from the office of the Social Welfare Department which is far away from his office than other offices. He has also not inquired about the acquaintance of the complainant with the panchas. He had the knowledge that both the panchas belong to Scheduled Caste. In view of the aforesaid evidence, according to us, the investigating officer has failed to discharge his duties before laying the trap with regard to the inter-se relationship between the complainant and the panchas as well as to take further explanation of the complainant as to why the accused has demanded the bribe from him for not repaying the loan amount of Rs. 4500/- which was not his responsibility. 22. In the case of Kishorchandra Mansukhlal Joshi v. State of Gujarat 1985 GLH 103 a Division Bench of this Court has held as under: 23. In the case of Raghbir Singh v. State of Punjab , the Supreme Court has held as under: 24. Applying the principles laid down by the Supreme Court as well as the Division Bench of this Court in the aforesaid decisions to the facts of the present case, when the complainant's evidence does not inspire confidence and panch witnesses are selectee of the investigating officer at the instance of the complainant it raises serious doubt on the prosecution case. Therefore, no reliance can be placed on the oral evidence of Panch No. 1 as well as the investigating officer. 25. At the cost of repetition, be it stated that in the instant case, evidence adduced by the prosecution raises serious doubt as their evidence impeaches their credibility and, therefore, no reliance can be placed upon their oral testimony and the evidence of the complainant does not get corroboration from independent witness i.e., Panch who is a selectee and in selection of the panch investigating officer has also over-acted and, therefore, he also loses his credence. 26. At this stage, it is also appropriate to refer to the written statement tendered by the accused along with his further statement which is produced at Ex.58. The accused has inter alia stated that he is innocent and has not committed any offence. He has been wrongly entrapped by the complainant. He has stated that the District Registrar, Mehsana has issued an order to inquire about the loan amount of Rs. 4500/- granted to the Mandali for purchasing furniture which has been utilized for some other purpose. He therefore inspected the Mandali on 22.3.1983. Thereafter he sent inspection report to the District Registrar, Cooperative Societies wherein he has specifically opined that the loan amount of Rs. 4500 shall be ordered to be paid in the Government Treasury along with interest. He has also sent a copy of the said report to the Mandali also and thereafter he informed the Mandali by letter dated 2.4.1983 to deposit the said amount within a period of four days. Thereafter he also informed the Mandali on 17.5.1983 to deposit the said amount within four days with the District Registrar. Thereafter again he informed the Mandali on 4.10.1983 to deposit the said amount failing which appropriate steps would be taken against the Mandali for committing breach of the conditions as the amount of loan amount was not utilized for the purpose for which it was granted. He has also stated that there was no question of taking any action against the complainant in his individual capacity as it was not his personal liability to repay the loan amount and it was the liability of the Mandali and the complainant has made false version in his complaint that he had accepted Rs. 1500 prior to filing of the complaint. It was also stated by him that on the day of the alleged incident i.e., 19.12.1993 when the trap was laid the complainant has come to his office and met him and told him that he has arranged the amount of loan. However, he does not know how to write the accounts and therefore he brought the books of accounts to his residence and requested him to come to his house. Thereupon he has stated that during evening hours he would come to the house of Hirabhai Parmar, a Sitting MP who is staying in Sarvoday Society, in connection with the information of 20 Point Programme. He therefore went to the house of Hirabhai Parmar during the evening hours where the complainant came and called him to his residence. Therefore, he went to his residence. He has also asserted that the complainant and both the Panchas belong to the same community i.e., Scheduled Caste. Therefore at the instance of the complainant, P.I. called them at his office on 19.12.1983 at 3.30 P.M. and in their presence complaint as well as Panchnama was prepared. He has also stated that the complainant also belongs to scheduled caste and therefore he had very good relations with the two panchas. Therefore they are selectee and not independent panchas. 27. A comparative analysis of the evidence of the prosecution witnesses and the further statement of the accused we are of the opinion that according to us the statement of the accused inspire confidence trustworthy and reliance can be placed upon them. 28. At this stage, it would be advantageous to refer to the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Aher Raja Khima v. State of Saurashtra . In the said decision , the Supreme Court has held that there are two important factors in every criminal trial that weigh heavily in favour of an accused person; one is that the accused is entitled to the benefit of every reasonable doubt and the other, an off-shoot of the same principle, that when an accused person offers a reasonable explanation of his conduct, then, even though he cannot prove his assertions, they should ordinarily be accepted unless the circumstances indicate that they are false. 29. In the case of Rabindra Kumar Dey v. State of Orissa , the Supreme Court has observed as under: 30. In the case of Bharatkumar Jaimanishanker Mehta v. State 1982 (1) GLR 605, a Division Bench of this Court, relying upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in Rabindra Kumar Dey 's case (supra), the relevant portion of which is quoted in para 12, has held as under: 31. Applying the principle laid down by the Supreme Court as well as this Court in the above referred to judgments to the facts of the present case, the explanation and assertions with regard to the conduct of the accused offered by him in his written statement tendered while recording his further statement even though are not proved they should ordinarily be accepted unless the circumstances indicate that they are false. In the instant case, this Court has discussed the explanation offered by the accused by giving a written statement while recording his further statement and according to this Court, the prosecution has failed to prove that the explanation offered by the accused is false. On the contrary, according to this Court, the explanation offered by the accused is in consonance with the prosecution case as the accused has written several letters prior to laying the trap. If the accused was minded to take the bribe then he would not have informed the complainant as well as the Mandali and the District Registrar, Cooperative Societies with regard to non-repayment of the loan amount of Rs. 4500 which was granted to Mandali and which was not utilized for the purpose for which it was sanctioned, till the date on which the trap was laid. 32. On overall appreciation of the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, according to us, following points can be culled out: 33. In view of the discussion made in the foregoing paragraphs, we are of the considered opinion that the prosecution has utterly failed to establish the charge against the accused for demand, acceptance and recovery of the bribe money from the accused as ingredients which were required to be proved by the prosecution for bringing home the charge under section 161 of the IPC and Section 5(1)(d) read with Section 5(2) of the Act have not been proved. On the contrary, defence version is so much in consonance with the evidence adduced by the prosecution which go to establish that a false case is filed against the accused to entrap him in bribe case. 34. The learned Special Judge has committed no illegality or irregularity in coming to the conclusion that the prosecution has failed to prove the charge against the accused. We find ourselves in complete agreement with the said finding, ultimate conclusion and resultant order of acquittal as according to us no other conclusion is possible except the one reached by the learned Special Judge. 35. It is a cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence that in an acquittal appeal if other view is possible then also appellate Court cannot substitute its own view by reversing the acquittal into conviction, unless the findings of the trial Court are perverse, contrary to the material on record, palpably wrong, manifestly erroneous or demonstrably unsustainable. (See Ramesh Babulal Doshi v. State of Gujarat ). In the instant case, the learned APP has not been able to point out to us as to how the findings recorded by the learned Special Judge are perverse, contrary to material on record, palpably wrong, manifestly erroneous or demonstrably unsustainable. 36. In the case of Ram Kumar v. State of Haryana , Supreme Court has held as under: 37. It may be noted that this is an acquittal appeal in which Court would be slow to interfere with the order of acquittal. Infirmities in the prosecution case go to the root of the matter and strike a vital blow on the prosecution case. In such a case, it would not be safe to set aside the order of acquittal, more particularly, when the evidence has not inspired confidence of the learned Special Judge. 38. On overall appreciation of evidence, this Court is satisfied that there is no infirmity in the reasons assigned by the learned Special Judge for acquitting the accused. Suffice it to say that the learned Trial Judge has given cogent and convincing reasons for acquitting the accused and the learned A.P.P. has failed to dislodge the reasons given by the learned Special Judge and convince this Court to take a view contrary to the one taken by the learned Special Judge. 39. Seen in the above context, we do not find any valid reason or justifiable ground to interfere with the impugned judgment and order passed by the learned Special Judge acquitting the accused of the offences with which he was charged. Hence, the appeal lacks merit and deserves to be dismissed. 40. For the foregoing reasons the appeal fails and accordingly it is dismissed. Muddamal to be destroyed in terms of the impugned judgment and order.