VIPIN SANGHI, J. 1. The present second appeal under Section 100 CPC assails the
judgment dated 26.10.2006 passed by the First Appellate Court, i.e. learned
ADJ Delhi Fast Track Court, New Delhi, whereby the first appeal preferred
by the defendant/appellant i.e. RCA No. 22/06/87 under section 96 CPC was
dismissed. The said regular first appeal challenged the judgment and decree
dated 16.02.1987 passed by the trial court, viz. the Sub Judge 1st Class
Delhi, in Suit No. 451/79, decreeing the suit preferred by the plaintiff for
declaration and mandatory injunction against the defendants. 2. The plaintiff/respondent-Mirajuddin initiated the suit on the premise
that the building bearing municipal House Tax no. IX/436(old) 739(New),
situated at Jama Masjid, Delhi (the suit property) was a composite evacuee
property. On 24.09.1960 the Competent Officer advertised the public
auction of the suit property against reserve price of Rs. 45,000/- in exercise
of the powers conferred under the Evacuee Interest (Separation) Act, 1951 .
The plaintiff Mirajuddin gave the highest bid of Rs. 22,000/-, and he paid
10% of the bid amount. Since the bid amount was below ½ of the Reserve
price, the plaintiff was intimated that the matter will be referred to the
Custodian of Evacuee Property for acceptance of his bid, and intimation will
be sent to him 3. There were two defendants in the suit. They were Mohd. Vakil -
defendant No.1 and his wife Fatima Sultan - defendant No.2. The plaintiff
stated that the defendants were related to him. The case of plaintiff was that
in the middle of October, 1960 the defendants came to meet the plaintiff and
his mother and got to know of the above transaction. The defendant No.1
offered to help the plaintiff and stated that he has contacts in the Custodians
office and will prevail upon them to get his bid accepted. In November
1960, defendant No.1 informed the plaintiff and his mother that the
custodian had agreed to accept the bid, and advised the plaintiff to deposit
the balance amount of 19,800/- in cash. Impressed with the efforts of
defendant no 1, the plaintiff's mother asked him to collect and deposit the
balance amount. Accordingly, the mother of the plaintiff handed over the
cash of Rs. 20,000/- to the defendant No.1 for deposit with the custodian. He
informed that he had deposited the said amount. After this, the defendant RSA No.66/2007 Page 2 of 56 No.1, on some pretext or the other, claimed that the sale certificate had not
been issued. He claimed that the finalization will take a little time, as the
office of the Competent Officer had not received the names of the persons in
occupation of the suit property either as tenants or as unauthorized persons.
It was further averred that because of the doubt which arose due to
inordinate delay, plaintiff's mother sent the plaintiff to the office of the
Competent Officer to inquire about the actual status regarding the sale
certificate, where he was told that the issue of sale certificate is being
withheld, as the Custodian of Evacuee Property has not sent the list of
occupants of the suit property. After passing of considerable period of time
when nothing happened, the plaintiff and his mother got suspicious and
requested the defendant no.1 to handover the original receipt of 19,800/-, but
he informed that the same had been deposited with the office of the
Competent Officer. 4. It was further averred in the plaint that the plaintiff and his mother
kept mum regarding the sale matter for years together, as the plaintiff and
his mother were advised by the defendant No.1 not to discuss the matter
with any other person. Defendant No. 1 had put fear in their minds that
other persons may create obstacles in the finalization of the transaction - the
property having been sold for Rs.22,000/-, i.e. far below the reserve price of
Rs. 45,000/-, if the same is disclosed. The plaintiff Mirajudin averred that
defendant No.1 again and again assured him that needful will be done, as
early as possible, and sale certificate will be obtained very shortly. 5. Since defendant no.1 had been lingering on the matter, on the
suggestion of one Sh. Mohd. Yamin, the plaintiff engaged Sh. Uttam Singh, RSA No.66/2007 Page 3 of 56 Advocate to inspect the file. On such inspection the plaintiff came to know
that he had been cheated, as his bid was accepted but no notice of
acceptance was issued to him. It was learnt that defendant no. 2 made an
application to the Competent Officer stating that the plaintiff is a minor and
gave the bid on her behalf, and he was virtually adopted by her, so she may
be substituted as the auction purchaser. The plaintiff stated that he was
neither the son, nor the adopted son of defendant No. 2. It was also learnt
that later on, vide order dated 17.11.1960 the Competent Officer ordered
defendant no. 2 to appear in person and to file an affidavit. He also required
the plaintiff to personally appear, but no notice was issued to the plaintiff
requiring his appearance. Defendant No. 2 filed an affidavit, and the
Competent Officer passed the order dated 28.11.1960, thereby substituting
the defendant no. 2 as the auction purchaser. She deposited the balance
amount on 06.12.1960, and an order was passed to issue the sale certificate.
The sale certificate was issued in favour of defendant No. 2 on 09.12.1960.
The plaintiff moved an application dated 11.10.1971 before the Competent
Officer to cancel the sale certificate issued in the name of defendant No.2
and for issuance of sale certificate in his own name, but the same was
dismissed by the Competent Officer on 03.05.1972. Revision was preferred
vide Revision No.37/72 but the same was also dismissed by the Appellate
Officer on 23.06.1972. Thereafter, the present suit was filed before the civil
court on or about 19.10.1972. 6. The stand of defendants, inter alia, was that the suit is barred under
the provisions of Evacuee Interest (Separation) Act, 1951 and the Civil
Court is not competent to try the suit. It was further claimed that the suit is RSA No.66/2007 Page 4 of 56 barred by limitation, as auction of the suit property took place on
24.09.1960; the Sale Certificate was issued on 09.12.1960, and; the suit had
been filed in October,1972. The defendants also averred that the suit, as
framed, was not maintainable. The plaintiff had no right to seek the relief of
declaration or injunction. The defendants denied that the plaintiff was in
possession of any portion of the suit property. 7. On merits, the defendants averred in their written statement that
defendant No.2 was interested in the purchase of suit property and it was on
her behalf that the plaintiff gave the bids, and the money i.e. 10% of the bid
amount was also provided by Defendant no.2. Defendants denied most of
the pleadings of the plaint and claimed that defendant No.1 did not offer any
help to the plaintiff in the acceptance of the bid, and he did not visit
plaintiff's house in the first week of November, 1960. It was further denied
that any money was given by plaintiff's mother to defendant No.2. It was
denied that the plaintiff paid the balance amount of Rs. 19,800/-. 8. Defendants denied the claim made by the plaintiff Mirajudin that he
had contacted the office of the Competent Officer and he was told that the
issue of sale certificate was being with-held on account of the non-sending
of any list by the Custodian. It was further averred in the written statement
that the Sale Certificate having been issued in December,1960, no question
of the plaintiff being told about the non-issue thereof could arise. 9. Defendants averred in the written statement that Mohd. Yamin is the
maternal uncle of plaintiff, and there have been several cases, civil as well as
criminal, against the Mohd. Yamin and his associates for having tress- passed on, or having forcibly occupied properties of others. Defendant No.2
further claimed that as per Evacuee interest (Separation) Act, plaintiff
cannot challenge the orders of competent officer and revisional/ appellate
officer in a Civil Court. 10. Plaintiff in his replication to the written statement denied the
allegations raised in the written statement, and reaffirmed the pleadings of
the plaint. 11. After completion of pleadings of the parties the trial court framed the
following issues- OPD (ix) Whether the plaintiff is owner of the property in suit? OPP (x) Relief. 12. The parties led their respective evidence. 13. The learned Civil Judge decided all the issues in favour of the plaintiff
and the suit was decreed on 16.02.1987, declaring the plaintiff to be the
absolute owner of the suit property and the defendants were ordered to
deliver the documents of title to the plaintiff. 14. The material findings returned by the Trial Court are the following: 15. Aggrieved by the aforesaid, the defendants preferred a Regular First
Appeal. The first appellate court dismissed the appeal preferred by the
defendants/ appellants and upheld the decree passed by the Ld. Trial court. 16. On 07.03.2007, the following substantial question of law were framed
by the court: 18. Mr. Bhaduri submits that, in any event, the suit for Declaration,
without praying for possession of the remaining property was not
maintainable. Mr. Bhaduri submits that even according to the plaintiff, he
did not have complete possession of the suit property - either actual or
symbolic. 19. Learned counsel submits that the court could not have granted the
relief of declaration of his rights in the suit property in favour of the plaintiff
on account of the embargo contained in Section 34 of the Specific Relief
Act. The plaintiff had failed to seek the relief of possession, which he was
able to, when he filed the suit. Mr. Bhaduri in furtherance of his argument
places reliance on Vinay Krishna V. Keshav Chandra AIR 1993 SC 957; M.K. Rappai V. John 1969(2) SCC 590 and; Muni Lal V. Oriental Fire
and General Insurance Co. Ltd. AIR 1996 SC 642. 20. On the issue-whether the Civil Court had jurisdiction to try the instant
suit, Mr. Bhaduri makes reference to sections 18 and 20 of the Evacuee
Interest (Separation) Act, 1851("Evacuee Act", for short). Sections 18 and
20 of the Evacuee Act, reads as follows- 20. Jurisdiction of Civil Courts barred in certain matters-
 (1) Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, no Civil or
 Revenue Court shall entertain any suit or proceeding in so far
 as it relates to any claim to composite property which the
 competent officer is empowered to by or under this Act to
 decide, and no injunction in respect of any action taken or to be
 taken by the competent officer in respect of the composite
 property shall be granted by any Civil Court or other authority.
 (2) All suits and proceedings pending before a Civil or
 Revenue Court at the commencement of this Act shall, in so far
 as they relate to any claim filed before a competent officer
 under section 7 , be stayed during the pendency of any
 proceedings under this Act. (3) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall prevent any civil or revenue
 court from entertaining any suit or proceeding relating to any
 right in respect of any payment made, or property transferred
 or delivered, to a claimant under the provisions of this Act,
 which any other claimant or other person may be entitled by
 due process of law to enforce against the clamant to whom the
 payment is made or the property is delivered or transferred." 21. The submission of Mr. Bhaduri is that in the present case, a certificate
of sale was issued by and under the orders of the Competent Officer in
favour of the appellant in pursuance of an auction sale conducted under RSA No.66/2007 Page 10 of 56 section 10 of The Evacuee Act. The plaintiffs' application to set aside the
said sale was also dismissed by the Competent Officer, and the Revision was
dismissed by the Appellate Authority. As the said orders are of the
Competent Officer and Appellate Authority, the present suit was clearly
barred under section 18 of the Evacuee Act. The impugned judgment had
wrongly held that the suit was maintainable. Mr. Bhaduri submits that the
power of review does not inhere in the competent authority. 22. In furtherance of this submission Mr. Bhaduri relies upon Riaz
Ahmad & Ors. V. UOI (AIR 1974 Del 151); Amrik Singh V. UOI (1984(36) PLR 446); Mohd. Rehan V. UOI (AIR 1981 All. 256); Major
Chandra Bhan Singh v. Latafat Gllah Khan (AIR 1978 SC(1814); Custodian Evacuee Property v. Jafran Begum (AIR 1968 SC 169); and
Sohan Lal Jain through LRs v. UOI & Anr. 2009 1 AD (Delhi) 102. 23. On the issue of limitation, Mr. Bhaduri submits that, admittedly, the
Competent Officer had issued the sale certificate in favour of defendant no.2
on 9.12.1960. The plaintiff had become a major in the year of 1965 and the
suit was only filed in the year of 1972, which is after 12 years of issuance of
the sale certificate, and after nearly 7 years of the Plaintiff attaining
majority. The claim of plaintiff was that the entire dealings were done by his
mother, and that the plaintiff and his mother had, for 12 years, not gotten to
know that the sale certificate had been issued in favour of defendant no.2.
Admittedly, the defendant no.2 is in possession of the suit property. Yet it
was claimed that the plaintiff came to know about the sale certificate only on
10.11.1969, when the advocate for the plaintiff inspected the file of the
competent officer. Mr.Bhaduri further submits that the falsity of the RSA No.66/2007 Page 11 of 56 plaintiff's case is brought out by the different versions set up by him before
the Competent Officer-when he moved the application on 11.10.1971, and in
the plaint. He has referred to the said documents, the averments made in the
plaint, and the evidence led by the parties in this regard. He submits that the
plaintiff was well aware of all the developments that had taken place before
the Competent Officer contemporaneously, and there are gaping holes in his
story. Mr. Bhaduri submits that this story of the plaintiffs is clearly absurd
and false on the face of it. 24. Mr. Bhaduri further submits that the benefit of Section 17 of the
Limitation Act for extension of limitation in case of fraud would not be
available if the plaintiff could have discovered the alleged fraud by acting
with reasonable diligence. Section 17 of the limitation Act, insofar as it is
relevant, reads as follow: 25. Mr. Bhaduri submits that the plaintiff did not act with reasonable
diligence, as the defendants were openly in occupation of the suit property
and they asserted their rights of ownership openly. In furtherance of this
submission Mr. Bhaduri relies upon Sh. B Das v. R.K Das AIR 1969 Ori.
63, wherein the Court has held that an applicant invoking the aid of section
17 must prove fraud beyond all reasonable doubt. The Court observed as
follows: Order 6, Rule 4 lays down that in all cases in which the party
 pleading relies on fraud, particulars with dates and items, if
 necessary, shall be stated in the pleadings. Order 7, Rule 6
 requires that where a suit is instituted after the expiration of the
 period prescribed by the law of limitation, the plaint shall show
 the ground upon which exemption from such law is claimed.
 The same principle applies to an application. As to the quantum
 of proof, the Judicial Committee in Satish Chandra v. Satis
 Kantha Roy, AIR 1923 PC 73 laid down thus: The same view was taken in Hansaraj Gupta v. Dehra Dun
 Mussoorie Electric Tramway Co. Ltd., AIR 1940 PC 98 and
 Narayan v. Official Assignee, Ragoon, AIR 1941 PC 93. Fraud
 like any other charges of the criminal offence, whether made
 in civil or criminal proceedings, must be established beyond
 reasonable doubt. A finding as to fraud cannot be based on
 suspicion or conjecture. Therefore the opposite party no. 1 must, in the first instance
 establish that the petitioner was guilty of fraud in the matter of
 suppression of the sale- proclamation. (6) If fraud is established, then the onus would shift to the
 petitioner to prove that influence of the fraud has ceased to
 operate, or that opposite party No. 1 could have with
 reasonable diligence discovered the fraud. In Rahimbhoy v.
 C.A. Turner, (1893) 20 Ind App 1 (PC) their lordships of the
 judicial Committee observed thus: This has been consistently followed in all subsequent Indian
 decisions. In Naravan Sahu v. Damodar Das , 16 Cal WN 894
 Sir Lawrence Jenkins made the following observations: The fraud referred to in that case was regarding the fraudulent
 concealment of the sale-proclamation as in this case, and the
 application under Order 21, Rule 90 had been filed invoking
 the aid of Section 18 of the old Act. A full bench of the Calcutta
 High Court in Bisman Chandra v. Promotho Nath , AIR 1922
 Cal 157 (FB), reviewed the entire position and followed the
 aforesaid view. Their lordships held that a person who desired
 to invoke the aid of the Section 18 of the old Act must establish
 that there was fraud. Once that was established, the burden
 would shift to the other side to show that the plaintiff had
 knowledge of the transaction beyond the period of limitation. It
 is emphasized that such knowledge must be clear and definite of
 the facts constituting the particular fraud. It is not sufficient to
 show that the applicant under Order 21, Rule 90 had some
 clues and hints which perhaps vigorously and acutely followed
 up might have led to complete knowledge of fraud. If opposite party No. 1 is successful in establishing that the
 petitioner was guilty of fraud in the in suppressing the sale-
 proclamation, the onus would shift to the petitioner not merely
 to establish that opposite party No. 1 had a vague knowledge or
 opinion of the sale but that he had a full knowledge of all the
 facts resulting in sale. (emphasis supplied) 26. Mr. Bhaduri submits that the plaintiff failed to establish any fraud by
the defendants. He submits that the defendant No. 2 moved a written
application before the Competent Officer to seek substitution of the name of
defendant No. 2 in place of the name of the plaintiff as the auction
purchaser. He submits that it was not the obligation of the defendants to
notify the plaintiff of the said application. In any event, the plaintiff was
well aware of the date already fixed in the proceedings by the Competent
Officer. The plaintiff did not appear on the appointed date, or on any date RSA No.66/2007 Page 15 of 56 thereafter to stake his claim to the property in question. He did not deposit
the balance sale consideration. He did not raise any issue despite the
defendant No. 2 being put in possession of the suit property and started
claiming rights in the property after 12 years of the issuance of the sale
certificate, and 7 years after he attained majority. All these facts clearly
militate against the plaintiffs claim of a fraud by the defendants. 27. Mr. Bhaduri further draws the courts attention to Articles 58 and 113 of the Limitation Act, 1963 which provide a limitation of 3 years to obtain
any declaration or injunction. Articles 58 and 113 of the Limitation Act read
as follows: Schedule 28. Mr. Bhaduri submits that the period of limitation to obtain the relief
of declaration/injunction commenced when the right to sue first accrued. A
perusal of the proceeding-sheet before the competent officer would clearly
show that respondent was present in almost all the hearings when the
proceedings were held. Thus, clearly, the limitation commenced when the
Competent Officer passed the necessary order i.e. in December, 1960. 29. Mr. Bhaduri further submits that on the face of it, in the above facts
the plaintiffs cannot claim that the so called fraud could not be discovered
by them. The suit filed was clearly hit by limitation. He submits that the
impugned judgments have wrongly and erroneously held that the suit is
within time, merely because some frivolous vague and unsubstantiated
allegations of fraud have been made. 30. In response to the submissions made by Mr. Bhaduri, Mr. Srivastava
points out that, admittedly, the bid was made by Mirajuddin-the Plaintiff and
that till 15.11.1960 there was no issue raised about who was the bidder,
though the auction took place on 24.09.1960. 31. Mr. Srivastava draws the Courts attention to, Ex. PW 1/4, which is the
order of the competent Dt. 5.11.60. which reads as follows: 32. He further refers to the order of the Competent Officer Dt. 15.11.60
which is Ex. PW 1/3, and reads as follows: 33. The Defendant No.2- Fatima malafidely and fraudulently made an
application to the competent officer, which is Ex. PW 1/5, and reads as
follow: Prayed accordingly." 34. Mr. Srivastava submits that the plaintiff-Mirajuddin was not the
adopted son of Fatima-Defendant No.2 and this fact has not been established
by her. Mr. Srivastava submits that in Muslim law, there is no concept of
adoption, as claimed by defendant No. 2 in her application Ex.PW1/5. In
this regard, he places reliance on Sunder Shekhar Vs. Shamshad Abdul
Wahib Supariwala and others (2014) 1 AIR Bombay R 181 decided on
20.11.2013 in appeal from order No. 948/13 by the Bombay High Court.
He submits that the mother of a minor child, in any event, is not the guardian
in Muslim law. In this regard, he places reliance on Meethiyan Sidhiqu vs
Muhammed Kunju Pareeth Kutty & Ors (1996) 7 SCC 436. 35. He submits that the defendants did not appear as their witnesses.
Even though defendant No. 2 was alive when the evidence was recorded in RSA No.66/2007 Page 18 of 56 the suit, she has chosen to produce her son and attorney as the primary
witness, who deposed on behalf of the defendants on the strength of his
power of attorney. Mr. Srivastava has also placed reliance on Sardar
Gurbakhsh Singh Vs. Gurdial Singh and another AIR 1927 PC 230
wherein the Privy Council held that an adverse inference could be drawn
against the defendants in view of the failure of defendant No. 2 to appear as
her own witness. She did not appear in support of her defence as she would
not have withstood cross-examination by the plaintiff. Defendant No. 2 died
nearly 12 years after examination of DW5 Md. Zamil-her son and attorney.
On the same lines, he places reliance on the decision of the Bombay High
Court in Martand Vs.Radhabai AIR 1931 Bombay 97. 36. Learned counsel submits that a power of attorney holder is not a
competent witness. In this regard, he places reliance on the judgment of the
Supreme Court in Janki Vashdeo Bhojwani & Anr. Vs. The Indusind Bank
Limited & Others (2005) 2 SCC 217. He also sought to discredit the
testimony of DW5-Md. Zamil-the attorney and son of the defendants, firstly,
on the ground that he was a minor himself when the auction in question took
place; and secondly, he has not explained as to why the auction bid was
made in the name of the plaintiff, if he and his mother i.e. defendant No. 2
were both present when the auction in question took place and the amount of
10% i.e. Rs.2200/- was given by defendant No.2. He has also read and
referred to the testimony of DW4-M.P.Srivastava to submit that he was
completely unreliable. 37. Mr. Shrivastava submits that vide exhibit Ex. DW. 2/P-1, i.e. the
order of the competent officer dated 18.11.1960, the Competent Officer had RSA No.66/2007 Page 19 of 56 ordered both Mirajudddin- plaintiff No.1 and Fatima- Defendant No.2 to
appear personally, or file affidavits in support of the application filed by
Fatima, on or before 22.11.1960. An affidavit was filed by Fatima-
Defendant No.2 as per the order of the competent officer, i.e. PW 1/6.
Wherein she solemnly declared as follows: 38. However, the plaintiff was not noticed in the application of Fatima
Sultan and his affidavit was also not filed. Vide Ex. PW 1/7, dt 28.10.1960
i.e. the order of the Competent Officer allowed the application of Fatima-
Defendant No.2 behind the back of the plaintiff. Relevant portion from the
order is replicated below: 39. Mr. Srivastava draws the attention of the court to the English
translation of the examination-in-chief of Syed Nawab Husain, who was the
reader of the Competent Officer(PW 1), where he stated that no notice was
issued to the plaintiff- Mirajuddin on Fatima's application. Mr. Srivastava
submits that the aforesaid facts present an undeniable case of a fraud being
played upon the plaintiff by the defendants in getting the name of defendant
No. 2 substituted in place of the name of the plaintiff as the auction
purchaser in getting the sale certificate issued by the Competent Officer.
Mr. Srivastava submits that there was no reason for the plaintiff to remain
quite for all these years, if he was actually aware of the fact that the sale
certificate have been issued in favour of plaintiff No. 2. He places reliance
on the impugned judgments of the two courts below and submits that the
findings of fact returned by the courts below being consistent, cannot be
interfered with by this Court, as they are well reasoned. 40. So far as maintainability of the suit is concerned, Mr. Srivastava
submits that the suit was maintainable to seek the relief of declaration and
injunction since the plaintiff was consistently found to be in possession of a
portion of the suit property. He places reliance on the decision of the
Andhra Pradesh High Court in Bijivemula Venkata SubbaReddy
Vs.Jangam Satya Babu 2009(2) ALT 689 in this regard. He further submits
that the suit was not barred under the provisions of the Evacuee Act since Section 20 specifically provides that the jurisdiction of the civil court and
the revenue court is not barred from entertaining any suit or proceeding
relating to any right in respect of any payment made, or property transferred
or delivered, to a claimant under the provisions of the Evacuee Act, which RSA No.66/2007 Page 21 of 56 any other claimant or other person may be entitled by due process of law to
enforce against the claimant to whom the payment is made or the property is
delivered or transferred. He submits that the plaintiff cannot be rendered
remediless in view of the fraud perpetrated upon him by the defendants. 41. On the issue of limitation, Mr. Srivastava submits that the findings
returned by the two courts below are consistent and, therefore, should not be
interfered with by this Court. He submits that it was only upon inspection of
the record of the Competent Officer by the Advocate appointed by the
plaintiff, namely, Shri Uttam Singh, that the correct factual position was
revealed to the plaintiff. The said information was derived only in the year
1969-70 and the suit was filed within the period of limitation, after first
approaching the Competent Officer and then the Appellate Authority in
revision. On the aspect of limitation, Mr. Srivastava has relied upon several
decisions, namely, S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu (Dead) by LRs Vs.
Jagannath (Dead) By L.Rs. (1994) 1 SCC 1; Ved Prakash Vs. Chairman/
Administrator 137( 2007) DLT 84, Sewa International Fashions and Anr.
Vs. Employees Provident Fund and Organizations and others 138(2007)
DLT 185; and Bhagwana Vs. Shadi AIR 1934 Lahore 878. 42. In his rejoinder, Mr. Bhaduri submits points out that it has come in the
evidence that the proceeding sheets of 05.11.1960 and 15.11.1960 of the
Competent Officer were signed in Urdu by the plaintiff-Mirajuddin. On
15.11.1960, the proceedings were adjourned to 06.12.1960. In the
meantime, on the application of defendant No.2, the name of defendant No.2
was substituted as the auction purchaser on 28.11.1960. There is no
explanation furnished by the plaintiff as to why he did not appear before the RSA No.66/2007 Page 22 of 56 Competent Officer on 06.12.1960 if, according to him, he was the real
bidder and auction purchaser and defendant No. 2 had played a fraud by
getting her name substituted. He further submits that there is no explanation
furnished by the plaintiff as to why the plaintiff did not deposit the balance
amount, and also why he had not taken further steps before the Competent
Officer with regard to his bid. 43. In Regular Second Appeal, this Court would not reappreciate
evidence and would normally not interfere with consistent findings of fact
returned by the Trial Court and First Appellate Court. However, a well
recognized exception to this rule is a case where the finding of fact returned
by the Trial Court and the First Appellate Court are not premised on the
evidence brought on record. However, it should not be a case of mere re-
appreciation of the evidence brought on record. If the trial court and the first
appellate court have appreciated the evidence, and arrived at a plausible
view, this Court would not interfere merely because it prefers a different
view or conclusion. Another exception to the rule of non-interference is a
case where the courts below have ignored the evidence brought on record,
and not taken into account their effect on the conclusion drawn. In this
regard, reliance is placed on Hero Vinoth (Minor) Vs. Seshammal (2006) 5
SCC 545 wherein the Supreme Court with regard to Section 100 CPC held
as under: or (iii) the courts have wrongly cast the burden of proof. When
 we refer to "decision based on no evidence", it not only refers
 to cases where there is a total dearth of evidence, but also
 refers to any case, where the evidence, taken as a whole, is not
 reasonably capable of supporting the finding." 44. The aforesaid view has been followed in Sebastiao Luis Fernandes
(Dead) through LRs and Others Vs. K.V.P. Shastri (Dead ) through LRs
and others (2013) 15 SCC 161. 45. So far as the finding with regard to the plaintiffs possession in a
portion of the suit property is concerned, it is seen that the averment of the
plaintiff in para 23 of the amended plaint was that he "is in actual
possession of a portion of the suit building ...". The said averment was
made to justify the paying of fixed Court fee of Rs.19.50 in respect of the
relief of declaration sought by him. Pertinently, he does not specify the
portion of the suit property he claimed to be in possession of. He has not
disclosed as to how, and in what capacity he came to occupy any portion of
the suit property. It was the plaintiffs own case that the suit property had
been auctioned by the Competent Officer under the Evacuee Interest
(Separation) Act, 1951 . It was not his case that prior to the said auction, the
plaintiff or his family were in occupation of any portion of the suit property
in any capacity whatsoever. It was the plaintiffs case that he had been
defrauded by the defendants, who substituted the name of the plaintiff as the RSA No.66/2007 Page 24 of 56 auction purchaser, behind his back, with the name of defendant no.2, and on
that basis got the sale certificate issued way back on 09.12.1960. 46. In his examination in chief, the plaintiff/PW-3 does not state that he is
in possession of any portion of the suit property. In his cross examination,
he states that he is possessed of a room admeasuring 20 sq. ft.
approximately-without specifying which portion of the suit property wherein
the said room is allegedly situated. 47. The two courts below have placed heavy reliance on Ex. X-5 and Ex.
X-6 to return the finding that the plaintiff was in possession of a portion of
the suit property. Ex. X-5 is the suit for permanent injunction filed by
defendant no.2 Smt. Fatima Sultan against Mohd. Sultan as the sole
defendant. Mohd. Sultan was the brother of the plaintiff. In Ex. X-5, there
is no whisper by defendant no.2 that the plaintiff herein, Mirajuddin, was in
possession of any portion of the suit property. The grievance of defendant
no.2 Smt. Fatima Sultan - the plaintiff in that suit, was that the defendant in
the suit-Mohd Sultan was occupying unauthorisedly one room in the suit
property shown in red colour in the site plan, wherein he was running his
business of old motor parts. The grievance of the plaintiff in that suit was
that the defendant Mohd. Sultan was creating nuisance, inter alia, in respect
of the business being run by the husband of the plaintiff, namely, Mohd.
Vakil, who was running a hotel in premises No.735 and also in a portion of
the premises No.739, Jama Masjid, Delhi, which is the suit property. The
defendant in the said suit had filed the written statement Ex. X-6 stating that
the suit property was owned by the plaintiff herein i.e. Mirajuddin. He
claimed that Mirajuddin is in occupation of the property in his own right as RSA No.66/2007 Page 25 of 56 the owner, and was carrying on his business of old motor parts. Pertinently,
the plaintiff herein - Mirajuddin did not jump into fray to claim that he is in
occupation of any portion of the suit property. The defendant in the said suit
Mohd. Sultan also did not claim possession of any portion of the suit
property, nor it was his claim that both the brothers were in joint possession
of the suit property. Even if such a claim had been made, the same possibly
could not have constituted an admission on the part of the plaintiff in the
said suit i.e. Smt. Fatima Sultan, defendant no.2 herein. 48. The said suit was stayed by the learned Sub-Judge, First Class, Delhi
on 06.08.1980 vide Ex. X-4. The two courts below have held the plaintiff to
be in possession of a portion of the suit property on the basis of Ex. X-5 and
X-6. 49. I fail to appreciate as to how the said documents lead to the
conclusion that the plaintiff Mirajuddin was in possession of any portion of
the suit property. Defendant no.2 herein had not averred or admitted that the
plaintiff herein was in possession of any portion of the suit property. The
averment of defendant no.2/ plaintiff in the said suit, was that Mohd. Sultan
was in occupation of a defined portion marked in red colour in the site plan
filed with the suit, wherein he was running his old motor parts business.
Possession of the plaintiff's brother could not be construed as the possession
of the plaintiff. Pertinently, the defendant in the suit claimed in his written
statement (Ex.X6) that the plaintiff herein -Mirajuddin was the owner and in
possession of the property bearing No. IX/436(Old) 739(New), Jama
Masjid, Delhi. Mohd. Sultan did not make said averment only in relation to
the one shop bounded in red in the plaint (Ex.X5), but in relation to the RSA No.66/2007 Page 26 of 56 entire property. This averment of Mohd. Sultan undisputedly was not true
inasmuch, as, it is not even the plaintiff's case in the present suit that he was
in occupation of the entire suit property when he filed the suit. The Trial
Court, in para 6 of its judgment, without discussing the evidence (apart from
referring to Ex. X-4, X-5 and X-6), while returning the finding in favour of
the plaintiff-that he is in possession of a portion of the suit property,
observed "the evidence placed on file clearly shows that the plaintiff is in
possession of part of the premises in suit". It was for the plaintiff to
positively establish his possession in the portion that he claimed to be in
possession of. His evidence is completely silent in this regard. He did not
produce any evidence, such as electricity bills, municipal inspection records,
or any other document, such as, correspondence, which, might have been
undertaken at the said address. The mere failure of defendant No. 2 to
appear as her own witness cannot come to the aid of the plaintiff. The
plaintiff has to stand on his own legs. In my view, the said finding
returned by the two courts below, though consistent, is not supported by any
evidence at all and, therefore, cannot be sustained. 50. Even if one were to proceed on the basis that the plaintiff was, indeed,
in possession of some portion of the suit property when he filed the suit in
question, the failure of the plaintiff to seek the relief of possession in respect
of the remaining portion of the suit property which was not in his
possession, and was in possession of defendant no.2 either directly or
indirectly i.e. through tenants who were attorning to defendant no.2, to my
mind, is fatal and bars the Court from making a declaration of title in favour RSA No.66/2007 Page 27 of 56 of the plaintiff as sought by him. Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act
insofar as it is relevant, reads as follows: [ emphasis supplied ] 51. When the plaintiff filed the suit, he was "able to seek further relief
than a mere declaration of title". He was able to seek the relief of
possession against the defendants, and in particular defendant no.2 Fatima
Sultan, of the suit property (even if it was only partially in her possession).
However, he did not seek the said relief. 52. In Vinay Krishan (supra), the court has held that upon failure of
plaintiff to claim the relief of possession, the discretion of the court to grant
the relief of declaration is barred. The court further held that a mere prayer
in the plaint that such other relief may be granted that the court may deem
fit, is not sufficient to construe it as a prayer to seek the relief of possession RSA No.66/2007 Page 28 of 56 and that there has to be a specific plea for possession. Relevant extract from
this judgment reads as follows; [ Emphasis supplied ] 53. Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act, 1877, as mentioned in the
excerpt above, is the same as section 34 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. 54. In M.K. Rappai (supra) the court held that a suit for a bare
declaration without further relief for possession and other reliefs is not
supportable. A bare declaration of right will be within the mischief of
Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act, 1877 i.e. section 34 of the Specific
Relief Act, 1963. Relevant portions of the judgment reads as follows: [Emphasis supplied] 55. In Muni Lal (supra), the court held that merely asking for
declaration, that the plaintiff is entitled to payment for loss of truck, but not
seeking consequential relief of payment of quantified amount, would be
barred. Relevant extract from this decision reads as follows; [Emphasis supplied] RSA No.66/2007 Page 30 of 56 56. The learned Trial Court returned findings on issues 1 and 2 under a
common discussion. A perusal of the discussion found on issues 1 and 2 in
the judgment of the Trial Court shows that the focus of the learned Sub-
Judge was on the aspect of valuation of the suit and payment of Court fee by
the plaintiff. However, on the aspect of maintainability of the suit, the Trial
Court did not advert to Section 34 of Specific Relief Act at all. All that it
observed was: 57. The First Appellate Court in the impugned judgment specifically
records the submission of the appellant that the suit was barred by Section
34 of the Specific Relief Act, since the plaintiff had merely sought a decree
of declaration when he was able to seek further relief than a mere
declaration of his title, and he had omitted to do so. However, the First
Appellate Court does not deal with the said aspect at all in the body of the
impugned judgment. 58. In view of the aforesaid discussion, the first substantial question of
law is answered in favour of the appellant and against the respondent. 59. Turning to the second substantial question of law with regard to the
jurisdiction of the civil court to try the suit, the plaintiff claims that the civil
court's jurisdiction was barred in view of the provisions contained in
Sections 18 and 20 of the Evacuee Act, which have been extracted
hereinabove. Mr. Bhaduri has placed reliance on several decisions taken
note of hereinabove. 60. Riaz Ahmad (supra) is relied upon to submit that the orders of the
competent authority setting aside the sale, or refusing to set aside a sale
cannot be challenged before the civil court on the ground of the sale being
collusive, or not properly published, or not properly conducted. Relevant
portion of the judgment reads as follows; 61. The decision in Riaz Ahmed (supra) was a decision rendered under
the Administration of Evacuee Property Act . The Court was dealing with
Section 46 of the said Act and it was in that background that the court held
that the jurisdiction of the civil court would be barred. Section 46 of the
Administration of Evacuee Property Act expressly bars the jurisdiction of a
civil court or revenue court from entertaining or adjudicating upon any
question as to whether any property, or any right to or interest in any
property, is, or is not an evacuee property. It also bars the jurisdiction of the
civil court and revenue court to question the legality of any action taken by
the Custodian General or Custodian under the Act and in respect of any
matter which the Custodian General or the Custodian is empowered by or
under the Act to determine. 62. The position is, however, materially different when one examines the
provisions of the Evacuee Act. The Evacuee Act was enacted to make
special provision for the separation of interests of evacuees from those of
other persons in property in which such other persons are also interested,
and for matters connected therein. Under the Evacuee Act, the Competent
Officer appointed under Section 4 of the said Act by the State Government,
has the jurisdiction to decide "any claim relating to any composite property
situated within the limits of local area of his jurisdiction..........". The said
Act provides for the procedure to be followed by him while determining or
separating the evacuee interest in a composite property. A composite
property has been defined to primarily mean, 'any property in which an
interest has been declared to be an evacuee property or is vested in the
Custodian under the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 , and in
which the interest of the evacuee consists undivided share of the property
held by him as a co-sharer or partner of any other person who is not an
evacuee.' The Competent Officer is vested with the jurisdiction to hold an
inquiry into the claim made by any person who is an evacuee and claims
interest in a composite property, and pass an order determining the interest
of the evacuee and the claimant in the property (non-evacuee) in terms of Section 8 of the said Act. Section 10 of the said Act provides the manner in
which the interest of an evacuee would be separated from those of the
claimants/non-evacuees, and one of the modes of separation is by sale of the
property and distribution of the sale proceeds between the Custodian on the
one hand, and the claimant/non-evacuee on the other hand in proportion to
the share of the evacuee and the claimant in the property. It appears that the RSA No.66/2007 Page 33 of 56 property in question-being a composite property, was sold by the Competent
Officer by resort to Section 10(a)(iii) of the Evacuee Act. 63. The dispute raised by the plaintiff in the present suit is not in relation
to an order made by the Competent Officer or the Appellate Officer under
the provisions of the Act. The plaintiff did not challenge any order or
decision made either under Section 8 or under Section 10 of the Evacuee
Property Act. What the plaintiff challenged was the act of the defendants in
seeking substitution of the name of defendant No. 2 as the successful bidder
in place of the name of the plaintiff allegedly behind his back. That being
the position, the bar of jurisdiction contained in Section 18 of the Evacuee
Act, to my mind, did not apply in respect of the orders dated 03.05.1972
passed by the Competent Officer and the order dated 23.06.1972 by the
Appellate Officer. 64. Pertinently, Section 20 of the Evacuee Act, which has been extracted
hereinabove further clarifies the position and leaves no room for doubt with
regard to the maintainability of the present suit. Section 20(1) provides that
no civil or revenue court shall entertain any suit or proceeding insofar as it
relates to any claim to composite property which the Competent Officer is
empowered to by or under the said Act to decide. Section 20(3) , however,
makes it clear that nothing in sub-section (1) of Section 20 shall prevent any
civil or revenue court from entertaining any suit or proceeding relating to
any right in respect of any payment made, or property transferred or
delivered, to a claimant under the provisions of this Act, which any other
claimant or other person may be entitled by due process of law to enforce
against the clamant to whom the payment is made or the property is RSA No.66/2007 Page 34 of 56 delivered or transferred. Thus, the jurisdiction of the civil court or the
revenue court from entertaining any suit or proceeding inter se the claimant
or any other person in relation to any property delivered or transferred by the
Competent Officer is not barred, and the right to file such a suit or
proceeding is specifically preserved. In the present suit, the plaintiff did not
seek to question the decision of the Competent Officer to auction the
composite property. He also did not seek to assail the acceptance of the bid
by the concerned authority submitted by him. What he assailed was that the
substitution of the name of defendant No. 2 in place of his name as the
auction purchaser at the behest of the defendants, allegedly by playing the
fraud upon him and upon the authorities. Thus, I am of the view that the
present suit of the plaintiff was not barred by Sections 18 and 20 or by any
other provision of the Evacuee Act and the Civil Court had the jurisdiction
to try the instant suit. 65. For the same reasons, the other decision relied upon by the appellant
on the aforesaid aspect are of no avail. 66. Amrik Singh (supra) was a civil suit challenging the sale of a house
by auction. The court held that the discretion exercised by the Rehabilitation
authorities cannot be assailed in a civil suit. Relevant portion has been
replicated below. 9. It has already been held above that the matter of transfer
 of house in dispute in favour of Amrik Singh was within the
 exclusive jurisdiction of the Rehabilitation authorities. The
 authorities have exercised the discretion against him. It is
 obvious that the intra vires discretion exercised by the
 Rehabilitation authorities against Amrik Singh cannot be
 assailed in civil Court under section 36 of this Act. 10. The learned counsel for the appellant has argued that the
 Chief Settlement Commissioner had issued an interim direction
 on February 18, 1960, in revision filed by Amrik Singh against
 the revaluation of the house that the sale of the house would be
 void if his revision was accepted. The revision of the appellant
 was accepted. In the meantime, the house was put to auction on
 February 24, 1960. In view of the interim direction the sale by
 auction in favour of Prabati is to be treated as void. This
 contention is also without merit. Prabati was not a party in the
 revision filed by the appellant. The direction issued by the Chief
 Settlement Commissioner was not conveyed to her at any time.
 This apart, the appellant cannot invoke the direction in the face
 of the discretion exercised by the rehabilitation authorities in
 the matter of transfer of house in dispute against him. 11. In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with no
 order as to cost." 67. Thus, it would be seen that Amrik Singh (supra), which was a case
under the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Rules, 1955,
related to the issue of bar of jurisdiction of civil court under Section 36 of
the said Act. The Court held that the matter of transfer of the house in
dispute was within the exclusive jurisdiction of rehabilitation authorities and
that the intra vires discretion exercised by the rehabilitation authorities
could not be assailed in a civil court. The said decision is clearly
distinguishable in view of the aforesaid discussion. 68. Mohd. Rehan (supra) was a suit filed to seek the setting aside of the
sale of a waqf property as an evacuee property, where all the beneficiaries of
the waqf deed had migrated to Pakistan. The property was dealt with by the
government, as it was acquired under the Administration of Evacuee
Property Act . The court held that since the claim was contested by the
Custodian, the claim could not be adjudicated upon by the civil courts.
Relevant extract from this decision reads as follows: 69. Section 46 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act was
invoked by the Court to hold that the jurisdiction of the civil or the revenue
court was barred since the issue raised in the suit related to adjudication of a
question whether the property in question, or any right to or interest therein
is, or is not, evacuee property and to the legality of action taken by the
Custodian General or the Custodian under the said Act. It also related to a
matter which the Custodian General or a Custodian is empowered by or
under the said Act to determine. This decision is also, therefore,
distinguishable and has no application in the facts of the present case. 70. Reliance placed on Major Chandra Bhan (supra) appears to be
completely misplaced as the said decision does not squarely deal with the
issue of bar of jurisdiction of a civil court. 71. For the same reason as given hereinabove, the decision in Custodian
Evacuee Property, Punjab (supra) has no application to the facts of the
present case. The decision in Sohan Lal Jain (supra) is also of no avail to
the appellant for the same reasons. 72. Consequently, the third substantial question of law, as framed
aforesaid, is answered against the appellant and in favour of the respondent. 73. Turning now to the issue of limitation, the courts below have relied
upon Section 17 of the Limitation Act to hold that the suit filed by the
plaintiff was not barred by limitation. The said section, insofar as it is
relevant, has been extracted hereinabove. 74. Consequently, if the evidence brought on record reveals that the
plaintiff had, firstly, not established the fraud and, secondly, had discovered
the so-called fraud, or could, with reasonable diligence, have discovered it
earlier than claimed by him, the suit would fail due to the bar of limitation. 75. The reliefs sought in the suit, namely, for declaration and injunction
prescribe the period of limitation of three years from the time when the right
to sue first accrues - under Article 58 of the Schedule to the Limitation Act (qua the relief of declaration), and under Article 113 of the Schedule to the
Limitation Act (qua relief of injunction). The evidence would, therefore,
need a closer scrutiny to examine whether, firstly, the plaintiff established RSA No.66/2007 Page 39 of 56 the perpetration of a fraud by the defendants upon the plaintiff and,
secondly, whether the cause of action to seek the reliefs as sought by the
plaintiff arose only on or about 10.11.1969 as claimed by the plaintiff in
para 22 of the plaint, or at an earlier point of time. 76. The defendant produced Shri S.B.Lall, Senior Clerk, in the office of
the Regional Settlement Commissioner, Jaiselmer House, New Delhi, as
DW2. He brought the requisite record pertaining to the property in question.
He, inter alia, deposed that the plaintiff-Mirajuddin is not shown as tenant or
occupant in any portion of the suit property. In his cross-examination, he
deposed that the property was put to auction on 24.09.1960 and the reserve
price of the property was fixed at Rs. 45,000/-. The highest bid in auction
for the said property was Rs. 22,000/- and that it was made by the plaintiff.
He deposed that the memo containing the proceedings of the auction bid
purports to bear the signatures of the plaintiff in Urdu. The auction bid was
exhibited as Ex.PW1/1. DW2 further deposed that no letter was issued to
the plaintiff-Mirajuddin regarding acceptance of his bid as his signatures
were obtained on the order passed by the Competent Officer on 05.11.1960
(Ex.PW1/4). Ex.PW1/4 reads as follows: 77. Thus, it would be seen that the plaintiff was put to notice with regard
to acceptance of his bid of Rs. 22,000/-, and he was asked to appear before
the Competent Officer on 15.11.1960. 78. PW1-Syed Nawab Hussain, the Reader of the Competent Officer,
Jamnagar, Delhi, who was summoned by the plaintiff himself, exhibited the
order passed by the Competent Officer on 15.11.1960, in which the
Competent Officer records the presence of, inter alia, the plaintiff-
Mirajuddin. He passed the order, "The A.P. now deposit Rs. 19800/-
balance of sale price within 15 days. Failing which the property will be put
to auction again & E.M. forefieted. (sic). Adj. to 6.12.60." 79. PW1 deposed that the signature of plaintiff-Mirajuddin is found on
the original Ex.PW1/3. Thus, the plaintiff had notice that the bid of Rs.
22,000/- had been accepted and he had been granted 15 days' time to deposit
the same, and upon his failure to do so, his bid would be forfeited. He was
also aware of the fact that the proceedings had been adjourned to 06.12.1960
to await the deposit of the balance amount within 15 days. 80. In the meantime on 17.11.1960 vide Ex.PW1/5, the defendant No. 2
moved an application claiming that she was the real bidder and that
Mirajuddin had made the bid on her behalf who, "has been virtually adopted
by your petitioner." Thus, defendant No. 2 did not claim that the plaintiff RSA No.66/2007 Page 41 of 56 was her 'adopted' son. The word was qualified by says that he was
'virtually' adopted, meaning thereby, that he was de facto a son, or 'like' a
son. The decision relied upon by Mr. Srivastava, therefore, have no
relevance in view of the stand taken by the defendants. 81. On 18.11.1960, the Competent Officer passed an order on the said
application of defendant No. 2 ordering that, 'let the applicant and
Mirajuddin appear personally or file affidavits in support of the application
on 22/11", vide Ex.DW2/P1. 82. Defendant No. 2 filed her affidavit dated 19.11.1960 (Ex.PW1/6)
reiterating her statement made in her application (Ex.PW1/5). On
28.11.1960, the competent officer passed an order accepting the application
of defendant No. 2, vide Ex.PW1/7 which reads as follows: 83. The case of the plaintiff is that he was never put to notice of the
application of defendant No. 2 seeking her substitution as the auction
purchaser. From the record, it appears that he was not put to notice on the
said application despite the order dated 18.11.1960 (Ex.DW2/P1) passed by
the Competent Officer. Thus, it appears that the substitution of the name of
defendant No. 2 as the auction purchaser, indeed, took place behind the back
of the plaintiff. 84. However, the matter does not end her. The order dated 28.11.1960
(Ex.PW1/7) passed by the Competent Officer shows that he put up the case
on 6.12.1960-which was also the date given to the plaintiff-Mirajuddin in his
presence when the Competent Officer passed the order on 15.11.1960(
Ex.PW1/3). It appears that the matter was taken up by the Competent
Officer on 07.12.1960 when he passed the order Ex.PW1/8, which reads as
follows: 85. The plaintiff has not explained as to why he did not appear before the
Competent Officer on 6.12.1960, and if he did appear, what were the
proceedings undertaken by the Competent Officer. He has also not
explained as to why he did not appear before the Competent Officer on the
following date i.e. 07.12.1960. Had the plaintiff appeared before the
Competent Officer on 06.12.1960-the date of which he had prior notice, he
would have learnt of the fact of substitution of his name by the name of
defendant No. 2 as the auction purchaser, and of the following date. His
non-appearance before the Competent Officer on 06.12.1960 cannot be
brushed aside lightly, as the same suggests that he actually did not have any
interest in the auction sale and he was aware of the substitution of the name
of defendant No. 2 as the auction purchaser in his place. Otherwise, there RSA No.66/2007 Page 43 of 56 was no reason for him not to attend the said date fixed by the Competent
Officer, when he had been attending the earlier dates fixed by the Competent
Officer i.e. on the date of the auction i.e.24.09.1960; on 05.11.1960 when
the order Ex.PW1/4 was passed, and; on 15.11.1960 when the order
(Ex.PW1/3) was passed. 86. Neither the plaintiff nor his mother bothered to find out as to what
transpired on 06.12.1960, or the following day, before the Competent
Officer in relation to the auction sale. 87. At this stage itself, I may notice that the plaintiff-Mirajuddin, during
his cross-examination, denied his signatures on Ex.PW1/4 and Ex.PW1/3 by
claiming that he does not sign in Urdu. Both PW1 and DW2 are
independent official witnesses, and there is no reason to disbelieve their
testimony when they state that the plaintiff had signed the said orders passed
by the Competent Officer. Moreover, the order dated 15.11.1960
(Ex.PW1/3) clearly records the presence of the plaintiff. It was in his
presence that he was directed to deposit the balance amount of Rs. 19,800/-
within 15 days, and he was put to notice that if he did not do so, property
shall be put to auction again and the earnest money forfeited. It was in his
presence that the matter was adjourned to 06.12.1960. Thus, he had full
knowledge and notice of the aforesaid facts. In fact, his testimony before
the court that he does not sign in Urdu is falsified by his own earlier solemn
statement recorded before the Competent Officer, wherein he admits that he
knows Hindi, Urdu and English and he is able to write in all these
languages. The said statement is taken note of hereinafter. 88. Now let us examine the case set up by the plaintiff before the
Competent Officer when he moved the application dated 11.10.1971 (mark
'A'). In the said application (which was filed before the court by the
plaintiff himself), he claimed that he had purchased the suit property for Rs.
22,000/-; he had completed the entire payment; no sale certificate had been
issued to the auction purchaser; but it appears your office had issued
sale/certificate to someone else; this constitutes a fraud. The Competent
Officer was requested to cancel the same "issued to a wrong person" and
thereafter it be issued to the applicant-Mirajuddin. He alleged a criminal
conspiracy. The statement of the plaintiff was recorded by the Competent
Officer on 26.10.1971 vide Ex.DW2/P3. In his statement made on solemn
affirmation, he stated that he gave a bid of Rs. 22,000/- for the suit property
in the year 1960 on 24.09.1960. An amount of Rs. 22,000/- was paid at that
time. "Thereafter I paid down the entire cost of the property". He stated
that his mother is alive whose name is Mst. Mohd. Bi. He stated that he had
not been adopted by any lady. On his cross-examination by the court, he,
inter alia, stated, "I do not know any lady by the name of Fatima Sultan
wife of Mohd. Vakil. I know Urdu, Hindi & English. I can read & write
in these languages. The bid of the property in question was accepted by
the Competent Officer in my presence. The entire sale price of Rs.
22,000/- was paid by my mother Mst. Mohd Bi on my behalf." He also
stated, "I signed the bid sheet at the time of auction in Urdu." He also
stated, "I do not possess any document regarding payment of earnest
money or the balance sale price nor any notice of this Court." 89. The statement made by the plaintiff before the Competent Officer on
26.10.1971 (Ex.DW2/P3) is at substantial variance with, and contradicted by
the averments made by him in his plaint, as well as his testimony recorded
as PW3. Even the statement of his mother Mst. Mohd. Bi, taken note of
hereinafter, appears to be contradictory with the case of the plaintiff. 90. When the plaintiff gave his solemn statement before the Competent
Officer on 26.10.1971 vide Ex.DW2/P3 (in pursuance of his application
dated 11.10.1971), he firstly feigned complete ignorance about his
acquaintance with defendant No.2-Fatima Sultan wife of Mohd. Vakil.
However, in the plaint, he has disclosed his relationship with Mohd. Vakil
and Fatima Sultan, his wife. Even his mother Mst. Mohd. Bi, in her solemn
statement, disclosed the said relationship and claimed to have reposed faith
and confidence in Mohd. Vakil on account of the said relationship. In his
statement dated 26.10.1971, the plaintiff states that he paid the entire cost of
the property. He does not claim that any part of the cost of the property was
paid by Mohd. Vakil, or his wife Fatima Sultan on his behalf, or that his
mother Mst. Mohd. Bi had handed over the balance consideration to be
deposited with the Competent Officer to Mohd. Vakil. In fact, he stated
that, "the entire sale price of Rs. 22,000/- was paid by my mother Mst.
Mohd. Bi on my behalf." 91. During his cross-examination as PW3, the plaintiff denies knowledge
of Urdu and the fact that he signs in Urdu. However, in his statement
(Ex.DW2/P3), he states that he knows Urdu, Hindi and English and that he
can read and write in these languages. He also admits in his statement
Ex.DW2/P3 that the bid of the property in question was accepted by the RSA No.66/2007 Page 46 of 56 Competent Officer in his presence. I may observe that the bid was accepted
vide Ex. PW1/4 dated 05.11.1960. He also admits that he signed the bid
sheet at the time of auction in Urdu. 92. The statements of PW1 and DW2 (who are officers from the office of
the Competent Officer and who produced the record) that the plaintiff signed
Ex.PW1/3 and Ex.PW1/4, therefore, stands duly corroborated, because the
statement of PW3 that he did not know or sign in Urdu stands completely
belied. In his statement DW2/P3-that he did not possess any document
regarding payment of earnest money or the balance sale price, nor any notice
of the Court of the Competent Officer, he does not claim that the receipt
issued upon deposit of earnest money had been handed over to defendant
No.1-Mohd. Vakil, as is claimed by him in his plaint and by his mother Mst.
Mohd. Bi while making her solemn statement on commission. He does not
explain as to why he is not possessed of the payment receipt of the earnest
money, or the balance sale consideration which was produced by the
defendants before the Court. 93. I may now take note of the solemn statement of Mst. Mohd. Bi
recorded on commission by Mr. Shail Sethi, Advocate/Local Commissioner
on 10.11.1974 in the suit. In the said statement, the mother of the plaintiff,
inter alia, stated that, "It was told that the bid would be approved by the
Custodian Authority and then the auction will be confirmed." She stated
that, 'Defendant No. 1 is the son of my sister-in-law. I know him by the
name of Mohd. Vakil. He came to our house after a month of the bidding'.
She stated that, Mohd. Vakil claimed to know people in the office of the
Custodian and that he will get the deal finalized expeditiously. She stated RSA No.66/2007 Page 47 of 56 that Mohd. Vakil informed the plaintiff and the witness Mohd. Bi that the
bid of Mirajuddin had been accepted and that the amount be paid for
depositing in the office of the Custodian. She claimed to have paid the
money in cash. She stated that she did not send Mirajuddin with Mohd.
Vakil for depositing the amount as she had full faith in Mohd. Vakil,
although, he asked her to send Mirajuddin with him. She stated that Fatima
Sultan-defendant No.2 is the wife of defendant No.1-Mohd. Vakil. 94. In her cross-examination she, inter alia, stated that plaintiff
Mirajuddin came home to collect the money from her to deposit the earnest
money of Rs. 2200/- and he did not give her the receipt for Rs. 2200/-. She
stated that she asked the plaintiff, when he returned home, about the receipt
of Rs. 2200/- and she was informed that Mohd. Vakil had taken the receipt.
She stated that Mohd. Vakil did not accompany the plaintiff at that time.
She did not inquire about the reason for giving the receipt to Mohd. Vakil.
She stated that the first time Mohd. Vakil came to her house was after a
week of the bid being made. 95. Pertinently, Mst. Mohd. Bi, in the earlier part of her solemn statement,
claimed that defendant No. 1 came to her house after a month of the bidding.
There was a talk about the bid in question with him whereupon he claimed
to know some people in the office of the Custodian and offered help to get
the deal finalized expeditiously. However, in the later part of her statement
under cross-examination, she stated that when the plaintiff returned home
after auction and she asked for the receipt of Rs. 2200/- she was informed
that defendant No.1-Mohd. Vakil had taken the same. She also stated that
Mohd. Vakil - defendant No. 1 had not accompanied the plaintiff at that RSA No.66/2007 Page 48 of 56 time, and she did not ask the reason for giving the receipt to Mohd. Vakil.
Thus, at one place, Mst. Mohd. Bi claimed that defendant No.1 Mohd. Vakil
learnt of the transaction entered into by the plaintiff after about a month of
the bid being made when he came to the residence of the plaintiff and his
mother, while on the other hand, she claimed that Mohd. Vakil had taken the
receipt of the earnest money deposit of Rs. 2200/- soon after the said earnest
money had been deposited and the receipt issued. No reason has been given
for the alleged delivery of the receipt of Rs. 2200/- to Defendant No.1. This
version of the plaintiffs mother Mst. Mohd. Bi is at variance with the
pleading of the plaintiff in his amended plaint, wherein he states; [emphasis supplied ] 96. Apart from the statements of the plaintiff and his mother-Mst. Mohd.
Bi with regard to the involvement of Mohd. Vakil; his engagement for the
purpose of getting the bid accepted; for deposit of the balance consideration,
and; of the fact that she gave the balance amount of Rs. 19800/- to Mohd.
Vakil for deposit by him, there is no other independent or credible evidence
brought on record by the plaintiff. Thus onus to prove all of these aforesaid
facts was on the plaintiff. No doubt, defendant No. 2 did not herself appear
as a witness in support of the defence set up by the defendants. Instead, her
son-the appellant, appeared as a witness. He claimed personal knowledge
and also claimed to hold a power of attorney from her mother/defendant No. RSA No.66/2007 Page 49 of 56 2. A reading of his evidence does not inspire confidence. The same has to
be ignored. 97. However, the plaintiff can take only limited advantage of defendant
No. 2 not appearing as her own witness. The plaintiff, to succeed, has to
prove his own case and stand on his own feet. The onus was on him to prove
fraud alleged by him. However, the plaintiff has failed to establish the
alleged fraud. 98. On examination of the aforesaid evidence which, unfortunately, was
not taken into account either by the trial court or by the first appellate court,
in my view, it cannot be said that the plaintiff has been able to establish the
fraud alleged against the defendants. The conduct and statements of the
plaintiff militate against his claim of the alleged fraud. In fact, the plaintiff's
stands discredited on account of the serious contradictions in his versions.
The first statement of the plaintiff made before the Competent Officer is the
most important one. Before the Competent Officer, he did not claim that he
and his mother had been talked into involving the defendant No. 1 for the
purpose of acceptance of the bid, or deposit of the balance amount of Rs.
19,800/-. In fact, he feigned complete ignorance about the defendants even
though, subsequently in his plaint, the plaintiff, his mother Mst. Mohd. Bi-in
her solemn statement, admitted that the defendants are related to him. In his
first solemn statement, he admits and acknowledges his knowledge of Urdu,
Hindi and English-both written and spoken. However, when he is
confronted during his cross-examination as PW3 with his signatures on the
various proceedings of the Competent Officer, he claims that he does not
write in Urdu. As noticed above, his subsequent statement is belied by his RSA No.66/2007 Page 50 of 56 first statement, wherein he also admits his signature on the bid sheet at the
time of auction in Urdu. Denial by the plaintiff of his signatures on the
proceedings of the Competent Officer cannot be accepted also for the reason
that two independent witnesses who produced the record attributed the
signatures on the proceedings to the plaintiff. 99. The plaintiff has not explained his conduct in not depositing the
balance consideration of Rs. 19800/- himself, or through his mother, and his
not appearing before the Competent Officer on the date fixed for further
proceedings i.e. 06.12.1960. Why did the plaintiff not appear on 06.12.1960
before the Competent Officer if he was the true bidder and not defendant
No.2? Why did he suddenly lose interest in the matter? Why did he not
deposit the amount of Rs. 19800/- within 15 days of the passing of the order
dated 15.11.1960 to save the forfeiture of his bid to secure the suit property
in his own name? Why did he not accompany defendant No. 1 to deposit
the balance amount of Rs. 19800/- when, allegedly defendant No. 1 took the
money from the mother of the plaintiff, despite the fact that he had earlier
been visiting the office of the Competent Officer regularly. These questions
have not been answered by the plaintiff and thus the charge of fraud leveled
against the defendants gets accordingly weakened. Pertinently, when the
application of defendant No. 2 was taken up for consideration by the
Competent Officer, and orders were passed thereon initially, defendant No.
2 was not required by the said order to get notice issued to the plaintiff.
Even if there was an irregularity, the same was on the part of the office of
the Competent Officer, who failed to ensure that notice should be issued to
the plaintiff and to further ensure that he is represented, before the RSA No.66/2007 Page 51 of 56 substitution of the name of the plaintiff as the auction purchaser by the name
of defendant No. 2 is ordered. However, in my view, the said irregularity
cannot be said to be fatal to the substitution of the name of plaintiff by that
of defendant No. 2 as the auction purchaser. This is, because, the Competent
Officer had kept the matter on 06.12.1960 for further proceedings, and the
plaintiff was well aware of the said date. He had to deposit the amount of
Rs. 19800/- before that date. If he was completely oblivious of the
application made by defendant No.2 vide Ex.PW1/5, and the order passed
thereon on 28.09.1960 vide Ex.PW1/7, he would have proceeded to deposit
the amount of Rs. 19800/- in his own name before the Competent Officer.
However, he failed to do so and the reason, therefor appears to be the
substitution of the name of defendant No.2 as the auction purchaser in place
of the name of the plaintiff. If the plaintiff deposited the initial earnest
money deposit of Rs. 2200/-, he has not explained as to why he was not
possessed of the receipt of the said amount and how defendant No. 2 came
to possess the same. The version of the plaintiff with regard to defendant
No. 1 visiting his residence; of defendant No. 1 offering to help the plaintiff
and his mother to get the plaintiff's bid confirmed; and on that pretext taking
the receipt of Rs. 2200/- is completely unsubstantiated. Apart from bald
statements of plaintiff and his mother, there is nothing at all to support the
said version which has been denied by the defendants. In fact, the evidence
led by the plaintiff itself is contradicted in this regard. As already noticed
above, while on the one hand, the plaintiff's mother in her solemn statement
stated that the said receipt for Rs. 2200/- was delivered to defendant No.1
soon after the amount was deposited, on the other hand, the plaintiffs stated RSA No.66/2007 Page 52 of 56 in his plaint that defendant No. 1 learnt of the transaction in the middle of
October, 1960 when he came to the plaintiff's residence. 100. The failure of the trial court as well as the first appellate court to even
take note of the aforesaid relevant aspects, in my view, has resulted in
completely perverse findings being returned that the defendants had played a
fraud upon the plaintiff. The conduct of the plaintiff does not support such a
conclusion, as noticed above. The said finding, therefore, cannot be
sustained and is set aside. 101. Even if the story set up by the plaintiff with regard to the involvement
of Mohd. Vakil towards payment of the balance consideration were to be
accepted, the said amount was deposited in the office of the Competent
Officer on 06.12.1960. The ingredients for invocation of Section 17 of the
Limitation Act are also not present in the present case. Firstly, the plaintiff
did not appear before the Competent Officer on 06.12.1960. Therefore, he
did not exercise reasonable diligence on the said date. The plaintiff claims
that he visited the office of the Competent Officer-though he does not
disclose the date when he did so. He claims that he was informed that the
sale certificate had not been made, whereas the sale certificate had already
been issued in favour of defendant No.2 on 09.12.1960. No reason has been
furnished by the plaintiff as to why the officers in the office of the
Competent Officer would mislead him, or wrongly inform him that the sale
certificate had not been issued-when the same had actually been issued on
09.12.1960 in favour of the defendant No.2. Pertinently, he does not
disclose the name of the officer(s) who had misled him into believing that no
sale certificate had been issued. When officers from the office of the RSA No.66/2007 Page 53 of 56 Competent Officer appeared as witnesses, namely, PW1 and DW4, neither a
suggestion has been given to them that he had been misled by anyone in the
office of the Competent Officer on the basis of a false statement with regard
to non-issuance of the sale certificate, nor he cross-examined the said
witnesses on the said aspect. From his own statement, it is evident that the
plaintiff did visit the office of the Competent Officer to make inquiries with
regard to issuance of sale certificate. Once the bid of the plaintiff had been
accepted in his presence and to his knowledge, vide Ex.PW1/4 on
05.11.1960, there was no reason for the plaintiff or his mother to keep quite
about the whole affair and remains secretive thereabout. Their story that
defendant No. 1 had advised them not to talk about bid to anyone, therefore,
falls to the ground. Unfortunately, all these aspects have been completely
ignored by the two courts below. Since on the face of it, the suit appears to
be barred by limitation, the onus fell on the plaintiff to establish that the
same was not barred by limitation. It is in this background that while
framing the issues, on the issue of limitation, the onus was placed upon the
plaintiff since the issue framed was, 'if the suit is within time? OPP' 102. The plaintiff, by claiming that he learnt of the alleged fraud and the
sale certificate upon inspection of the record through his Advocate in 1969-
70, tried to bring the suit within time. However, there is no explanation as
to why he did not take any legal action after 09.12.1960-when the sale
certificate was issued in favour of defendant No.2. The defendants, and in
particular defendant No.2, were in occupation of the suit property and
exercised their rights as owners in broad daylight. The plaintiff would have
been alerted when the defendants started occupying, and exerting their rights RSA No.66/2007 Page 54 of 56 as owners in respect of the suit property, and would have questioned the
same when it happed from December,1960 onwards. However, the plaintiff
did nothing even at that stage. This also shows that he was aware of the fact
that the true owner was defendant No.2-on account of her being substituted
as the auction purchaser, and on account of the fact that she had deposited
the sale consideration and got the sale certificate issued. The plaintiff was
about 15-16 years old (as stated by him during his statement) when he gave
the bid in September, 1960. Thus, he would have attained the age of
majority in 1962-63. Consequently, the disability attaching to the plaintiff
on account of his minority having ceased, he was bound to bring the action
within three years of his attaining majority. However, he failed to do so. 103. Admittedly, the plaintiff and even her mother Mst. Mohd. Bi did not
take any action for years-on-end, and engaged a lawyer to make inquiries
only in 1969. The plaintiff claimed to have derived knowledge of the so
called fraud on 10.11.1969. This claim of the plaintiff cannot be accepted in
view of the aforesaid discussion. Accordingly, the second substantial
question of law is answered in favour of the appellant and against the
respondent/plaintiff and it is held that the suit was not instituted within
limitation and that it was barred by limitation. 104. In view of the aforesaid discussion, the present appeal is allowed and
the impugned judgment and decree passed by the first appellate court i.e. the
learned Additional District Judge, Delhi, Fast Track Court, New Delhi, in
RCA No.22/06/87 dated 26.10.2006 as well as the judgment and decree
passed by the learned Sub Judge Ist Class, Delhi, in Suit No. 451/79 dated
16.02.1987 are set aside and the suit of the plaintiff is dismissed under RSA No.66/2007 Page 55 of 56 Section 34 of Specific Relief Act as well as on account of the bar of
limitation. The appellant shall be entitled to costs throughout. VIPIN SANGHI, J. JULY 11, 2016 RSA No.66/2007 Page 56 of 56