The instant appeal under Section 15 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1985 (hereinafter as
 the 'Act') is at the instance of Opposite Party Union Bank of India to impeach the Judgment/Final
 Order dated 06.01.2015 passed by the Ld. District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, South 24
 Parganas at Alipre (For short, Ld. DCDRF) in Consumer Complaint No.345 of 2014. The Respondent herein being Complainant initiated the Consumer Complaint under Section 12 of the Act alleging that he has an Account with Union Bank of India being
 No.554402010003659 and also one S. B. Account jointly with his wife being
 No.554402010003660 with the Opposite Party Bank. On 03.12.2013 at about 8 p.m. while the
 Complainant was on road received one SMS confirming debit of Rs.98,000/- from his
individual Account through internet banking operation. After arriving at home he locked the
internet system and found that the said amount was transferred to Account
No.548502010013228. On simultaneous checking of the joint Account he also noticed that a
sum of Rs.49,000/- was also transferred to some other Account. At about 8.30 p.m. on the
same day he called upon Customer Care Cell of the Opposite Party Bank requesting them to
stop the operations of the said transferred Account but on receiving call Customer Care Cell
advised him to lodge FIR with Police. On the next day when he visited to the Bank it was
found that out of Rs.98,000/- Rs.78,000/- had been taken away by the miscreants through ATM
Operation overnight. Entire amount transferred from said joint Account was recovered. The
Complainant has made several demands for Rs.74,900/- and in this regard he lodged complaint
with the Bank's ombudsman but it yielded no result. The Opposite Party by filling a Written Version disputed the allegation of the
Complainant stating that cyber crime occurred in respect of two S.B. Accounts of the
Complainant for which the Complainant informed the Customer Care Cell of Union Bank of
India and instantly, Customer Care cell advised the Complainant to contact the Service Branch
as freezing of the Account cannot be done over phone. It has been stated that the Password
used by the Complainant for internet banking is in the knowledge of the Complainant only.
The matter of fraud, as alleged by the Complainant is under investigation by the Cyber Crime
Section of Kolkata Police and as such, there is no deficiency of service on the part of the
Opposite Party. Considering the respective cases and upon hearing the Ld. Advocates appearing for
the Parties and relying upon the evidence on record the Ld. DCDRF found deficiency of
service on the part of the Opposite Party Bank and directed to refund Rs.74,900/- to the
Complainant within 1(One) month otherwise it will carry an interest at the rate of 9 per cent
per annum on the above amount till compliance, which prompted the Union Bank of India to
prefer this appeal. We have considered the materials on record including Brief Notes of Argument on
behalf of the Parties. Upon hearing the Ld. Advocates for the said Parties and on going through the
materials on record it comes to surface that the Complainant has an individual S.B. Account
 being No. 554402010003659 and also one another Joint Account with his wife being S.B.
Account No.554402010003660 with the Opposite Party Bank. On 03.12.2003 while the
Complainant was outside of his residence he received one SMS confirming debit of
Rs.98,000/- from his individual Account through internet banking operation. On arrival at
home immediately Complainant looked into the internet system and found the said amount was
transferred to Account No.548502010013228. Simultaneously, on checking of the Joint
Account he found that a sum of Rs.49,900/- was also transferred to some other account. The Complainant called upon the Customer Care Cell of the bank at 8-30 p.m.
requesting them to stop operation but the Customer Care Cell advised the Complainant to
lodge F.I.R. with the Police Station and to approach the service branch for freezing of the
accounts. On the following day it was found that out of Rs.98,000/- already Rs.75,000/- had
been taken away by the miscreants through various ATM Operations. In that perspective, the
question has cropped up whether due to deficiency of service on the part of the bank the
Complainant is entitled to Rs.74,900/- as prayed for. In course of advancing arguments Ms. Banani Upadhyay Bhattacharya, Ld.
Advocate appearing for the Appellant Bank has submitted that the Appellant Bank being
Nationalised Bank has introduced internet banking operation and its security measures as per
R.B.I. guideline. She has contended that in accordance with the request of the
Complainant/Respondent, the Customer Care Cell is not authorized to freeze the account and
only in case of Debit Card or Credit Card Customer Care Cell freeze further use of Debit or
Credit Card on receipt of complaint from the holder of such Debit or Credit Card after asking
certain security question to be sure that the person requesting freeze of the Debit/Credit Card is
the actual holder of such card. She has also submitted that no Card Holder can request for
freezing card of any other person and for that purpose the Customer is required to submit a
written request. Further, she has drawn our notice to the observation of Ld. DCDRF that banks
have introduce around the clock customer care cell and this cell works as 'Nidhiram Sardar'
and stands as show piece. Ld. Advocate for the Appellant has also placed a guideline of
Reserve Bank of India dated 20.02.2013 regarding Security and Risk Mitigation Measures for
electron payment transactions. The securing ECS transactions (B) of the said guideline clearly
indicate that bank must put in place the mechanism for velocity check on the number of
transactions effected per day/per beneficiary and any suspicious operations should be subjected
 to alert within the bank and to the customer. It has also been advised that bank may explore
the feasibility of implement new technologies like adaptive authentication, etc. for fraud
detection. Such a guideline was given so that the Security Measures contained in 'B (i) to (ix)
were expected to be put in place by banks by June 30, 2013. The alleged incident had taken place on 03.12.2013. Immediately, after the incident
the Complainant reported the same to the Customer Care Cell. When a serious allegation of
fraud has been made by the Complainant, the Customer Care Cell should immediately reported
the matter to the concerned Branch or could advise the Complainant to immediately approach
the Branch Manager to freeze the account immediately at least for some hours so that the
matter can be verified or investigated. The Ld. DCDRF has observed, - 'It is well known that
the popularized internet banking operation often invites cyber attack and the electronic
operation system is becoming vulnerable to frauds. Realising the incoming danger R.B.I. has
issued instructions to the banks to introduce minimum checks and balances and to implement
new technologies to minimize the impact of cyber attacks so as to arrest the unwanted damages
on customers'. Since the bank did not rise up at the right moment Ld. DCDRF has observed
that the Customer Care Cell works as 'Nidhiram Sardar' and stands like show piece. Ld.
DCDRF has rightly raised its finger towards functioning or creating of such cell which fails to
rise to right occasion. The Appellant/Opposite Party tried to absolve their responsibility on the ground that
hacking from the Account is a cyber crime and they have nothing to do with it. Needless to say, the Complainant being an Account Holder of the Bank is a
'Consumer' and when the Opposite Party Bank has introduced Electronic Payment Transaction
and allured customers to take the advantage of the same it is also the duty on the part of the
bank to see that a customer may not be a victim of such system. In accordance with the
guideline of the Reserve Bank of India had the Appellant Bank would have taken appropriate
steps the alleged fraud could have been averted. Considering the above, we have no hesitation to hold that the Ld. DCDRF was quite
 justified in passing the Order impugned. In other words, the impugned Order being based on
 proper reasoning, we do not find any reason to interfere with the said Order. In the result, appeal fails. However, considering the facts and circumstances, we do
 not make any order as to costs in this appeal. For the reasons aforesaid, the instant appeal is dismissed on contest but without any
Order as to cost. The Judgment/Final Order dated 06.01.2015 passed by the Ld. District Consumer
Disputes Redressal Forum, South 24 Parganas at Alipore in Consumer Complaint No.345 of
2015 is hereby affirmed. The Appellant Branch Manager, Union Bank of India, Tollgunge Karunamoyee
Branch is directed to refund Rs.74,900/- in favour of the Respondent i.e. the Complainant
within 1(One) month from the date in default, the said amount shall carry an interest at the
rate of 12 per cent per annum till its realization.