HON'BLE PRAVEEN KUMAR GIRI, J. HON'BLE SHEKHAR B. SARAF, J. : The present writ petition has been filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India wherein the petitioners have prayed for the issuance of a writ of mandamus directing the Bank of Baroda (hereinafter referred to as 'respondent no.1') and Reserve Bank of India (hereinafter referred to as 'respondent no.3') to restore the illicitly embezzled fund of Rs.38,78,000/- inclusive of penal interest at the rate of 24%. FACTS 2.	The factual matrix of the present writ petition is delineated below: 3.	The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners has made the following submissions: 4.	The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents has rebutted the arguments of petitioner and made following submissions: 5.	I have given my thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the parties and have also perused the relevant records of the case and the affidavits filed on behalf of both the parties. 6.	After perusal of the Debit/Credit details as well as I.P Address details, evidently, the petitioners were not the victims of cyber fraud as the alleged transaction had been done diligently by the petitioners themselves subsequent to logging into the internet banking account on June 19, 2022 and transferring the amount of Rs.30,00,000/- at 19.08.00 and the amount of Rs.7,85,000/- at 19:11:28. The petitioners also generated one time password and also changed the password. The amount that has been alleged to be unauthorisedly transferred was originally transferred to the accounts which were added as a beneficiary by the petitioner no.2. It is the admitted case of the petitioners that they received sms on June 19, 2022 regarding withdrawal of amounts in two denominations of Rs.30,00,000/- and Rs.7,85,000/- at 12.44 pm but abstained from reporting the issue immediately and filed the complaint on cyber crime portal on June 20, 2022 and lodged an F.I.R on June 21, 2022. The delay in reporting the issue to bank instantly about the transaction intimation received via sms and lodging of F.I.R depict that it is an afterthought and a concocted story. 7.	The petitioners take shelter of the RBI Circular dated June 6, 2017 titled "Customer Protection-Limiting Liability of Customers in Unauthorised Electronic Banking Transactions", the relevant part of which is extracted below: Further, if the delay in reporting is beyond seven working days, the customer liability shall be determined as per the bank's Board approved policy. Banks shall provide the details of their policy in regard to customers' liability formulated in pursuance of these directions at the time of opening the accounts. Banks shall also display their approved policy in public domain for wider dissemination. The existing customers must also be individually informed about the bank's policy. ***
 
Burden of Proof 12. The burden of proving customer liability in case of unauthorised electronic banking transactions shall lie on the bank." CONCLUSION 8.	A careful perusal of the aforesaid circular would show that the burden of proving the customer's liability in case of unauthorized electronic banking, lies upon the bank. The petitioners invoked clause 6(ii) but then one has to understand whether the loss occurred due to negligence by the customer. The record shows that the transaction was deliberate and was done by the petitioners themselves. 9.	The burden of proving customer liability lies upon the bank and the bank, in its counter affidavit has placed passbook, documents showing beneficiary addition by petitioner no. 2, I.P. Address details of petitioner no.2, time and debit transfer details from the internet bank account of the petitioner no.2, a document showing password modification by the petitioner no.2 to discharge its burden. 10.	From the perusal of the aforesaid record, it can be discerned that there has been no embezzlement of funds as every transaction was within the knowledge of petitioners, therefore, the defence taken by the petitioners is not fathomable in the eye of law. 11.	As far as the cases referred to by the learned counsel for the petitioners, the Supreme Court while dismissing the order passed by the Division Bench of Gauhati High Court has held that it is the duty of the Bank to employ advanced technology to prevent fraud. Pallabh Bhowmick (Supra) is distinct from the present case as in that case the amount was withdrawn fraudulently and unauthorisedly without being any negligence on the part of account holder who promptly reported to the bank. Therefore, account holder was entitled to zero liabilty under RBI's circular. 12.	The judgment of Bombay High Court in Jaiprakash Kulkarni (Supra) will also not apply to the present case as in that case petitioner did not receive any intimation with regard to the beneficiaries added to his account either through sms or email, therefore it was held that there was no negligence on the part of the petitioner in that case . 13.	In summary, the aforesaid decisions do not help the petitioners in any manner. On the other hand, RBI circular also do not provide shelter to the petitioner for garbing personal transaction as cyber fraud. RBI circular is to cover aspects of customer protection, including the mechanism of creating customer awareness on the risks and responsibilities, and customer liability arising in specific scenarios of unauthorized electronic transactions. The pupose of this circular is to act as a shield for customers from fraudulent transactions and not as a sword in the garb of personal transactions. 14.	In light of the above reasoning, this Court is of the view that neither the RBI circular nor the judgment cited by the petitioners apply to the present case. In fact, there appears to be gross negligence on the part of the petitioners and the case of a third party hacking into their accounts is not conclusively proved. Hence, this Court is of the view that the relief sought by the petitioners cannot be granted. Ergo, the writ petition is dismissed. 17.07.2025
 
Kuldeep
 

 

 
(Shekhar B. Saraf, J.)
 
 
 
 I agree
 

 

 
 (Praveen Kumar Giri, J.)