1. Common issue raised in the present applications and facts are
also common and therefore, both the applications were heard
together and disposed of by this common order. R/CR.MA/19993/2013 JUDGMENT DATED: 07/03/2022 2. The applicants herein, have preferred the present applications
invoking extraordinary jurisdiction of this Court under Section 482 of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, seeking quashment of the FIR being
C.R.No.I-95/2012 registered with Navsari Town Police Station, Dist.
Navsari, for the offences punishable under Sections 418 , 420 , 421 , 423 , 424 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 472 , 474 , 120(b) , 193 , 196 & 197 of the
Indian Penal Code. 3. The legal issue raised in the present applications that, an
advocate cannot be prosecuted for non exhibiting greater
professional care and competence while submitting non-
encumbrance certificate to a bank. 4. Brief facts leading to filing the applications are that, accused
Nos.1 and 2 being owners of shops No.L-12, L-13 and L-16 obtained
loan from Bank of Baroda by creating mortgage on the shops
properties and first charge of Bank of Baroda was created on
19.08.2004. While considering the loan request, the Bank of Baroda
had referred all the documents to panel advocate - accused No.3 for
verification of papers and issuance of Title Clearance Certificate in
favour of accused Nos.1 and 2. The Bank of Baroda after verification
of the original documents including NOC from the society and
considering the Title Clearance Certificate, sanctioned the loan and
accordingly amount had been disbursed. In the year 2006, accused
Nos.1 and 2 after having availed loan facility from Bank of Baroda
and having created the equitable mortgage on three shops,
approached Dena Bank branch, Navsari for loan on the same title
deed of the property, which has already been mortgaged with the
Bank of Baroda. The Dena Bank after considering the documents,
referred the loan papers to the panel advocate - accused No.3 -
Suresh Sule for issuance of Title Clearance Certificate and upon
receiving the certificate, Dena Bank sanctioned the loan. R/CR.MA/19993/2013 JUDGMENT DATED: 07/03/2022

 In the aforesaid facts, respondent No.2 complainant, lodged
an FIR inter alia, stating that, despite the title deeds, pledged with
Bank of Baroda, accused Nos.1 and 2 have hatched conspiracy to
defraud the Dena Bank and being a part of the conspiracy, accused
No.3 to facilitate the accused Nos.1 and 2, issued a Title Clearance
Certificate, so as to enable them to obtain the loan and
intentionally, did not disclose the true facts of the mortgage and
submitted false certificate. So far applicant Satish Sharma is concerned, he has been
arraigned as accused No.4 in the alleged FIR inter alia alleging that,
in the year 2007, accused Nos.1 and 2 being owners of Shop Nos.12
and 13 of Akshar Coop. Housing Soc. Ltd., obtained a loan from
Bank of Baroda by depositing original title deeds and while
sanctioning the loan, bank has referred the documents to the
applicant Satish Sharma for his opinion on the title of the shop
property and accordingly, he issued a Title Clearance Certificate
with respect to shop Nos.L12 and L13 that the properties are free
from all encumbrances. Respondent No.2 is the flat holder of Akshar Coop. Hous. Soc.
Ltd., and being a vigilant person of the society and keeping in mind
the financial interest of the nationalized bank, he thought it fit to
lodge an FIR against the accused Nos.1 & 2, who have obtained the
loan and they are the beneficiaries of transaction as well as two
advocates (accused Nos.3 and 4) alleging that, the applicants herein
were part of conspiracy hatched by the accused Nos.1 and 2 to
obtain the loans from different banks by submitting forged
documents and thereby, they have committed offence of cheating,
criminal breach of trust, forgery for the purpose of cheating with an
intention to cause wrongful loss to the bank. R/CR.MA/19993/2013 JUDGMENT DATED: 07/03/2022 5. This Court has heard Mr. K.B.Anandjiwala, learned Senior
Counsel assisted by Mr. Vishal Anandjiwala, learned counsel, Mr.
Zubin Bharda, learned counsel, Mr. Deep D. Vyas, learned counsel
and Mr. Manan Mehta, ld. APP for the respective parties. 5 (1). Rule. Ld. Counsel appearing for the respective
respondents waive Rule. 6. Mr. K.B.Anandjiwala, learned Senior Counsel and Mr. Zubin
Bharda, learned counsel appearing for the applicants raised the
following contentions :- Complainant is also a practicing lawyer at Navsari town. In the
 year of 2006, respondent No.2 availed a loan from Bank of
 Baroda for purchasing a vehicle and computer, for which he
 did not repay the said loan amount, as a result of which, the
 bank had decided to initiate legal proceedings against the
 respondent No.2 and before initiation of proceedings, legal
 notice through applicant Satish Sharma, who has been
 arraigned as accused No.4 in the FIR, had been served notice
 upon respondent No.2 calling upon him to repay the
 outstanding amount of loan. Thus, therefore, present FIR is
 malaciously instituted with an ulterior motive with wreaking
 vengeance on the accused applicants and with a view to spite
 them due to private and personal grudge, as the applicants
 are neither office bearers of Akshar Coop. Hous. Soc. Ltd,. nor
 any notice served upon the society or its member for the
 alleged due amount of loan obtained by the accused Nos.1
 and 2. So it was submitted that, no cause arises to respondent
 No.2 to lodge the present FIR arraigning the present applicants
 as accused against whom no offence is made out. Hence,
 continuing the proceedings is nothing, but sheer harassment
 to the applicants and an abuse of process of Court. R/CR.MA/19993/2013 JUDGMENT DATED: 07/03/2022 7. In support of the aforesaid contentions, learned Counsels for
the applicants relied upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in the
case of Central Bureau of Investigation, Hyderabad Vs. K.
Narayan Rao , [(2012) 9 SCC 512], to submit that, the criminal
liability arise only when the lawyer had participated in a plan to
defraud the bank. 8. Mr. Deep Vyas, learned counsel for the complainant and
Mr.Manan Mehta, learned APP for the State have vehemently
opposed the applications, submitting that, the applicants are facing
charge of criminal conspiracy alleged to have been hatched by
accused Nos.1 and 2 to defraud the bank and therefore, whether the
applicants were party to the alleged conspiracy or not would be a
matter of evidence and therefore, at this stage, court may not
exercise the inherent powers in favour of the applicants. It was
submitted that, the applicants could not have issued title clearance
certificates so far loan sought for from the Dena Bank branch at
Navsari as the property on which loan was sought was already
mortgaged with Bank of Baroda. In this background facts, at this
stage it cannot be said that, the applicants have not committed
offence and are not liable for prosecution. 9. In view of the facts and circumstances of the present case, the
question which falls for consideration is, whether case is made out
for exercising inherent power vests with this Court under Section
482 of the Code ? 10. So as to appreciate the submissions advanced by the learned
counsel for the respective parties, it is necessary to take into
account the settled law on the inherent powers of the High Court. It
is no more res integra that, exercise of power under Section 482 of
the Cr.P.C, to quash a criminal proceeding is only when an allegation
made in the FIR or the chargesheet do not constitute the ingredients
of the offences alleged. The power of the High Court is an inherent Page 6 of 13 Downloaded on : Sat Dec 24 12:20:20 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/19993/2013 JUDGMENT DATED: 07/03/2022

power to secure the ends of justice or to prevent any abuse of
process of any Court. This is an extraordinary power of the High
Court like Article 226 of the Constitution of India and while
exercising it, the court must careful and cautious before invoking it
to ensure that if this power is not invoked, the litigant would suffer
irreparable loss and injury and it would be manifest injustice and
abuse of process of law. 11. I have very carefully considered the averments of the
complaint. If we read the FIR carefully, it appears that, there is no
dispute about the loan obtained by the accused Nos.1 and 2 from
the different banks, by depositing the title deeds of the shops as
referred in the FIR. The applicants are penal advocates of the Bank
of Baroda and Dena Bank and in their official duty, they issued a
Title Clearance Certificate, opining that, the property is free from
charges and all encumbrances and has clearly marketable title. The
issue arise when the Dena Bank sanctioned the loan by creating
mortgage of the shops properties, upon which Bank of Baroda had
first charge as it had sanctioned the loan on the same property. The
applicants herein were asked by the Bank to issue Title Clearance
Certificate in favour of the applicant Nos.1 and 2. A clause reading
of the FIR would show that, only allegation against the applicants to
the fact that, they suppressed the material facts and issued false
certificates. Except this, there is no allegation against them that, the
applicants were part of the said criminal conspiracy hatched by
accused Nos.1 and 2 and knowingfully well about the earlier
transactions and with financial benefits, they had issued the
certificates. Therefore, prima facie, the ingredients of the conspiracy
as alleged are missing so far role of the applicants are concerned.
The applicants were never part of the alleged loan transactions, nor
accused Nos.1 and 2 have asked the applicants - lawyers to issue
certificate and therefore, there is no material or allegation
connecting the applicants in the alleged conspiracy. R/CR.MA/19993/2013 JUDGMENT DATED: 07/03/2022 12. In the aforesaid facts, so far the applicants are concerned,
their role as conspirators are not established and therefore,
allegations set out in the complaint, do not constitute the offence as referred above . The Apex Court in the case of K. Narayan Rao (supra), held that, the criminal liability of the lawyer arise only when
the lawyer was an active participant in a plan to defraud the bank.
Here in the present case, there is no allegation that, they were
abetted or aided in the alleged conspiracy to defraud the bank and
there was an overtact on their part. It is relevant to mention
paragraphs 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32 of the above cited judgment of
the Apex Court, which reads thus: 30. Therefore, the liability against an opining advocate arises
 only when the lawyer was an active participant in a plan to
 defraud the Bank. In the given case, there is no evidence to
 prove that A6 was abetting or aiding the original
 conspirators. 31. However, it is beyond doubt that a lawyer owes an
 "unremitting loyalty" to the interests of the client and it is
 the lawyer's responsibility to act in a manner that would best
 advance the interest of the client. Merely because his
 opinion may not be acceptable, he cannot be mulcted with
 the criminal prosecution, particularly, in the absence of
 tangible evidence that he associated with other conspirators.
 At the most, he may be liable for gross negligence or
 professional misconduct if it is established by acceptable
 evidence and cannot be charged for the offence
 under Sections 420 and 109 IPC along with other
 conspirators without proper and acceptable link between
 them. It is further made clear that if there is a link or
 evidence to connect him with the other conspirators for
 causing loss to the institution, undoubtedly, the prosecuting Page 9 of 13 Downloaded on : Sat Dec 24 12:20:20 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/19993/2013 JUDGMENT DATED: 07/03/2022

 authorities 2 (2005) 6 SCC 1 3 (1984) 2 SCC 556 are entitled
 to proceed under criminal prosecution. Such tangible
 materials are lacking in the case of the respondent herein. 32. In the light of the above discussion and after analysing
 all the materials, we are satisfied that there is no prima facie
 case for proceeding in respect of the charges alleged insofar
 as respondent herein is concerned. We agree with the
 conclusion of the High Court in quashing the criminal
 proceedings and reject the stand taken by CBI." 13. The principle of law laid down in the case of K. Narayan 's case
was followed with approval by the Supreme Court subsequently in
the matter of Surendra Nath Pandey & Ors. Vs. State of Bihar
and Ors. by observing as under:- 14. Reverting to the facts of the present case in light of the
aforesaid legal propositions, the applicants had issued title Clear
Certificates as sought by the bank concerned and while issuing
certificates, they did not have any connection with the accused
Nos.1 and 2, who have obtained the loan and considering their role,
if the allegations made in the FIR are accepted in their entirety, do
not prima facie constitute any criminal offence. It is to be noted
that, respondent No.2 being defaulter of Bank of Baroda, before
initiation of recovery proceedings against him, he had been served
with a legal notice, issued by the applicant Satish Sharma, who was
the lawyer of the Bank. The Dena Bank has already initiated criminal
proceedings against accused Nos.1 and 2 for the alleged
transactions as referred in the FIR without arraigning the applicants
lawyers who had issued the title clearance certificates. Thus, it is
evident that, both the banks have accepted the Title Clearance
Certificates and there is no any allegation by the bank authorities
that, while issuing the certificates, the lawyers have suppressed the
material facts and submitted false certificates. Even the opinion
sought by the Dena Bank from another lawyer with respect to Page 11 of 13 Downloaded on : Sat Dec 24 12:20:20 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/19993/2013 JUDGMENT DATED: 07/03/2022

alleged transaction clearly establishes that, the documents
submitted for loan purpose are in proper and legal manner and
found to be valid. 15. In view of the foregoing reasons and considering the peculiar
facts and circumstances of the present case, it is necessary to refer
parameters 1, 3 & 7 laid down by the Apex Court in the case of State of Haryana & Ors. Vs. Bhajan Lal [(1992) Suppl. 1 SCC
335] for exercising extraordinary power of quashing the criminal
proceedings, which reads thus:- 16. The present case is squarely covered by the principles laid
down in the case of K. Narayan Rao (supra) and parameters 1, 3 & 7
of Bhajan Lal 's case (supra). 17. In view of the aforesaid discussions, case is made out for
quashing of the FIR and consequential proceedings arising
therefrom and allowing the proceedings to continue would amount
to abuse of process of the Court. Accordingly, both the applications Page 12 of 13 Downloaded on : Sat Dec 24 12:20:20 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/19993/2013 JUDGMENT DATED: 07/03/2022

are allowed and FIR being C.R.No.I-95/2012 registered with Navsari
Town Police Station, Dist. Navsari, for the offences punishable under Sections 418 , 420 , 421 , 423 , 424 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 472 , 474 , 120(b) , 193 , 196 & 197 of the Indian Penal Code and consequential
proceedings arising therefrom are hereby quashed qua the
applicants. Rule is made absolute. Direct service is permitted. Sd/- (ILESH J. VORA,J)

SUCHIT Page 13 of 13 Downloaded on : Sat Dec 24 12:20:20 IST 2022