­ 1. Vide this judgment, I shall dispose of a revision petition

filed on behalf of the revisionist against the order dated 01.09.2012

passed by learned Metropolitan Magistrate, Shahdara, whereby the

complaint of the revisionist/ complainant under section 499 / 500 IPC

was dismissed. 2. Briefly stated, the facts are that the revisionist had filed a

complaint before the learned Metropolitan Magistrate alleging that the

respondent is his son­in­law and revisionist was having strained

relations with the respondent because the respondent was demanding

dowry. Thus, the respondent started maligning the reputation of the

revisionist. In order to defame the revisionist, the respondent sent

letters to the principals of the schools where his daughter had been

studying. The revisionist had a good reputation. The respondent had

also sent defamatory messages from his mobile number 9532819417

to the mobile phone of the revisionist having no. 9968666651 as well

as to his wife. One of the SMS reads as under:­
 ''kya baat hai, Dhirender G ek to fraud army certificate and apke
 bachcho ke caste S.C in MBBS admission ab kya hoga. 3. The respondent again sent a defamatory letter to Dr. Amit Cr. R No.77/12 2/7 Choubey, the husband of Raj Kumari, the younger daughter of the

revisionist. The letter also contained defamatory statement which is as

under:­
 Raj ke pita ne ek fraud army cota certificate banaya jo
 niyamanusar nahi ban sakta toh isne rishwat dekar banwaya hai,
 raj ke pita ne apne bachcho ke admission mein scheduled caste
 ka bhi certificate lagaya hai, matlab double dhokha. 4. Thus, the allegations that the revisionist got fake caste

certificate or fake army quota certificates had caused great imputation

to the reputation of the revisionist in his society, circle, friends and

relatives of the complainant. The revisionist is having two unmarried

children of marriageable age and due to the illegal and unlawful acts

of the respondent, who leveled defamatory allegations against the

revisionist and his family members, it is very difficult for the

revisionist to get his children married. Hence, a complaint was filed

before the learned Metropolitan Magistrate. 5. Vide the order dated 01.09.2012, the complaint was

dismissed by the learned Metropolitan Magistrate. Pursuant thereto,

the present revision petition has been filed. 6. Notice of the revision petition was issued to the

respondent. Despite repeated calls, the respondent failed to appear.

Arguments were advanced on behalf of the revisionist. Cr. R No.77/12 3/7 7. I have heard learned counsel for the revisionist and the

revisionist and have gone through the record as well as the impugned

order carefully. 8. Learned counsel for the revisionist has argued that the

learned Metropolitan Magistrate passed the order on the basis of

surmises and conjectures and she overlooked the fact that the

imputation damaging the reputation of the complainant had been sent

to schools and colleges of the children of the complainant and the

same had been obtained by the complainant under RTI and filed

before the leaned Metropolitan Magistrate. On the basis of those

defamatory letters, the concerned authorities had conducted inquiry

into the defamatory allegation and thus, this lowered the reputation of

the revisionist. It has been further contended that it is a well settled

law that at the stage of issuing of process, the Magistrate was not

required to enter into detailed discussion of the merits of the case or

that whether the allegations, if proved, would ultimately result in

conviction or not and the Magistrate was only required to be satisfied

that prima facie case existed against the accused but the learned

Metropolitan Magistrate did not consider the facts and circumstances

of the case. It is further contended that the trial court did not consider Cr. R No.77/12 4/7 the fact that there was no necessity to get all witness examined at the

stage of presummoning the respondent. 9. I have carefully considered the submissions made on

behalf of the revisionist and have gone through the impugned order as

well as the trial court record very carefully. 10. From the perusal of the impugned order and the trial court

record, it is very much clear that the revisionist had failed to prove the

publication of the alleged defamatory statements. The revisionist had

alleged two defamatory statements. The first was an SMS allegedly

sent to the revisionist on his mobile phone. First of all, I find that

when a message was sent to the revisionist, there can be said to be no

publication and thus, no prima facie case for summoning of accused

for defamation under section 499 / 500 IPC is made out. Further, PW2

had also deposed that similar message was sent on her mobile phone

number. Surprisingly, she had also cited her mobile number as

9968666651 upon which the message was sent to her and deposed that

this was her mobile number. On the other hand, the revisionist had

appeared as a witness and stated this number to be his mobile number

and on the other hand, PW2 his wife had stated that this was her

mobile number. Therefore, if it was the mobile number of the Cr. R No.77/12 5/7 revisionist, then there can be no publication of defamatory statement

and if it was seen by the wife of the revisionist, it cannot be said to be

the fault of the respondent. Thus, it cannot amount to publication of

such a statement to the wife of the revisionist. I also find no fault in

the finding of Ld. trial court that no authentic record of either SMS

being sent from the mobile phone number of respondent to the

revisionist has been produced before the court to satisfy the court that

such a message was sent and thus, even the sending of the message

either to the revisionist or by the respondent was not proved. 11. The second allegation of the revisionist was, that a letter

was sent to Dr. Amit Chobey which contained defamatory statement.

The copy of that letter was produced before the court as Ex. CW­1/A.

However, the complainant had not received this letter and could not

have proved this letter. It is only Dr. Amit Chobey who could have

come before the court and deposed that this letter was received by him

or at least the original of the letter should have been produced before

the court. Therefore, the Ld. trial court rightly reached the conclusion

that this letter has not been proved by the complainant. Therefore, the

trial court had no material before it to summon the respondent as an

accused under section 499 / 500 IPC. I accordingly find that the Cr. R No.77/12 6/7 revision petition is devoid of all merits. The revision petition is

accordingly dismissed. A copy of this order be sent to Ld. Trial Court

alongwith TCR. Revision file be consigned to record room.