BAIL APPLN. 2139/2024 (under Section 438 read with Section 482 of
 the Cr.PC for grant of bail) 1. The present Bail Application under Section 438 read with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (hereinafter referred to as ' Cr.PC , 1973'),
 has been filed on behalf of the petitioner, namely, Mr. Neeraj Dengre @
 Neeraj Gupta seeking grant of bail in the Case arising out of the FIR No.
 520/2023 dated 02.12.2024, under Sections 406 / 420 of the Indian Penal
 Code (hereinafter referred to as ' IPC '), registered at District South East
 Delhi, New Delhi. 2. It is submitted in the Application that the petitioner is a law abiding
 citizen and has been wrongly implicated in the present FIR, which has been
 registered on completely false and fabricated facts, narrated in the
 complaint. 3. It is submitted that according to the complainant, Mr. Umesh Kumar
 Goel, proprietor of Kuru Agro Products, the applicant, Mr. Neeraj Dengre @
 Neeraj Gupta, in conspiracy with other co-accused, namely, Ms. Somya
 Agrawal, Mr. Rakesh Kumar Gupta and Mr. Ram Kumar Goyal, had
 approached the complainant to dishonestly induce the complainant and
 defraud him with a heavy amount of money. The accused portrayed himself
 an Agent (dalal) in the business of masala/spices and similar items, along
 with the other co-accused persons who were also dealing in the same
 products. Purportedly, under the garb of business transaction, he took Orders
 for the supply of various items to the complainant and the accused assured
 that the goods so supplied would be kept in the Sudarshan Cold Storage in
 Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh . However, a false paper trail was created by the
 Agent and the Dealer, which included generation of false Invoices and a
 whole setup was a scam to defraud the complainant. It is claimed that no
 goods were delivered to the complainant nor were they kept in the
 Sudarshan cold storage, Gwalior. It was claimed that a sum of
 Rs.97,85,475/- was paid by the complainant to the accused persons. On the
 complaint, the FIR No. 520/2023 under Sections 120B , 406 , 420 , 504 and 34 IPC, has been registered. 4. The petitioner has explained that he had two decades of experience in
 the spice trade, operating as a commercial agent based in Mumbai. He
 introduced Kuru Agro Products, to several proprietors within the spice
 industry, including Ms. Somya Agrawal, Mr. Rakesh Kumar Gupta and Mr.
 Ram Kumar Goyal, with the sole objective of enabling direct commercial
 dealings of the complainant with these trading firms. The Kuru Agro
 Products and the aforesaid Trading Firms, had direct dealings in which the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN. 2139/2024 Page 2 of 6 By:VIKAS ARORA Signing Date:20.07.2024 12:35:55 accused/applicant had no role to play. Despite this minimal involvement, the
 applicant had co-operated with the investigations and had given the answers
 to the questions in writing vide Reply to the Notice dated 31.03.2024. He
 has always been willing to assist in the investigations process. All the
 Notices under Section 41A and Section 91 of the Cr.PC received by him,
 have been duly complied with. Despite the co-operation and providing of all
 the documents sought by the Police, the complainant visited the residence of
 the applicant and subjected him and his family members to verbal abuse.
 The petitioner has submitted that he has been subjected to harassment by the
 police and there is imminent threat of arrest. 5. Hence, the Anticipatory Bail Application No. 466/2024 was filed in
 the Court of learned ASJ, Saket Courts, wherein, interim protection from
 arrest, was granted vide Order dated 13.03.2024. However, this Anticipatory
 Application was withdrawn by the applicant. 6. The second Anticipatory Bail Application bearing No. 1419/2024
 under Section 438 Cr.PC, was filed in the Court of learned ASJ, Saket,
 wherein the learned ASJ observed about the demonstrable cooperation that
 the petitioner had extended to the Investigating Agency despite which they
 persisted in levelling allegations of Non-Cooperation against the petitioner. 7. It is claimed that the underlying transactions is commercial in nature.
 The registration of FIR is, therefore, disproportionately severe course of
 action. The applicant has been falsely implicated in the present Case. Even if
 the contents of the complaint are admitted, it would only amount to breach
 of contract. The resorting to the criminal proceedings by filing an FIR,
 represents potential exploitation of criminal justice system. It has been used
 to exert undue pressure and gain undue advantage. The relief is essentially Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN. 2139/2024 Page 3 of 6 By:VIKAS ARORA Signing Date:20.07.2024 12:35:55 civil in nature. Hence, a prayer is made for grant of Anticipatory Bail
 Application. 8. Learned APP appearing on behalf of the State, has opposed the Bail
 Application. 9. Written submissions have been filed on behalf of the complainant,
 who has submitted that the applicant has swindled Rs.1.65 cores from the
 complainant by using fake firms, in the name of his wife, Mr. Jyoti and
 brother-in-law and partly, the amounts have been obtained from the Kuru
 Agro Products/the complainant, on the basis of Bills made by Jai Mahakal,
 Aggrawal Enterprises, Jai Durga, Manvi Traders, Rehab Traders, who have
 disclosed to the IO that the goods covered in the Bills, had been supplied to
 Mr. Neeraj and delivered at Sudarshan Cold Storage. The petitioner had
 forged the Request Letter of complainant Company to get goods released
 from Seizure by CGST and thereafter, removed the goods from the
 Sudarshan Cold Storage and sold them in the market and thereafter, invested
 the cash so obtained in the name of his wife, Ms. Jyoti in properties at
 Mumbai/Gwalior. These illegal actions also attract the Section 467 / 468 of
 the IPC. 10. Furthermore, no goods were supplied by Manvi Traders, which were
 then forwarded to Sudarshan Cold Storage. The story of some amount
 having been paid by the complainant to Manvi Traders, is fake and untrue
 and custodial interrogation is required for confronting the applicant/his wife,
 with the owner of Manvi Traders. Thus, the custodial interrogation of the
 petitioner, is required to trace, identify and attach proceeds of crime of
 Rs.1.65 cores. 11. Learned counsel on behalf of the petitioner, has argued that the IO Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN. 2139/2024 Page 4 of 6 By:VIKAS ARORA Signing Date:20.07.2024 12:35:55 had failed to make compliance of Section 41A of Cr.PC. The petitioner has
 relied upon the Case of Arnesh Kumar vs. State of Bihar & Anr., Criminal
 Appeal No.1277/2014, decided on 02.07.2014, MANU/SC/0559/2014,
 wherein it has been observed that Section 41A Cr.PC, is aimed to avoid
 unnecessary arrest or threat of arrest looming large on accused. This
 provision makes it clear that in all cases, where the arrest of a person is not
 required, the Polie is required to issue a Notice directing the accused to
 appear before him at a specified place and time. Law obliges the accused to
 appear before the police and further mandates that if such an accused
 complies with the terms of Notice, he shall not be arrested, unless for
 reasons to be recorded, the police officers is of the opinion that the arrest is
 necessary. 12. In the present Case, the petitioner has duly complied with the Notice
 under Section 41A Cr.PC and the petitioner has joined the investigations. 13. It is further argued that the assertions of the IO that the petitioner has
 not co-operated is based on the inability of the petitioner to answer the
 questions about disclosing the trail where the money allegedly swindled, is
 presently lodged. 14. The reliance has also been placed on the Case of Smt. Bhavani
 Revanna vs. State of Karnataka, Crl.P. No. 5125/2024, decided on
 18.06.2024, wherein the High Court of Karnataka, had observed that merely
 because the complainant does not give the answers in a way as the police
 desires, would not tantamount to non-co-operation by the petitioner. 15. Once, the willingness of the petitioner, to join the ongoing
 investigation, is evident, the police should not arrest the accused. 16. Submissions heard. 17. As per the FIR, the petitioner had approached the complainant
 representing himself to be the Agent in the business of spices. He presented
 to the complainant various orders for purchase of spices, from various
 Trading agents and assured that the supply of spices to the complainant, is
 being kept in Sudarshan cold storage. The complainant believed the
 assurances of the petitioner and eventually got swindled of Rs.97,85,475/-,
 and he subsequently found that there were no goods supplied and stored in
 the cold storage. 18. Admittedly, various Notices for joining the investigation were served
 upon the accused/petitioner, Mr. Neeraj Gupta, who joined the
 investigations, when interim protection was granted to him, in the first
 Anticipatory Bail Application, but sought time to produce the documents.
 Thereafter, he did not co-operate. This led to the withdrawal of the first
 Anticipatory Bail Application on 27.04.2024. Thereafter, despite service of
 Notices, the petitioner has failed to join the investigations. 19. Though the petitioner is insisting that he had been co-operating in
 joining the investigations but the record shows that the petitioner
 subsequently failed to join the investigations. Furthermore, there is also
 allegations of having forged various Invoices, which also require
 interrogation. In the totality of circumstances, no case is made out for grant
 of Anticipatory Bail, which is hereby dismissed. The pending application
 also stands disposed of. (NEENA BANSAL KRISHNA)
 JUDGE
 JULY 08, 2024/RS Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN. 2139/2024 Page 6 of 6 By:VIKAS ARORA Signing Date:20.07.2024 12:35:55