5.09.2014 1. The Appellant challenges the judgment dated 12th December 2009
passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ) in SC No.
21/2006 convicting the Appellant for the offences under Sections 306 and 498A IPC. The Appellant also challenges the order on sentence
dated 21st December 2009 whereby for the offence under Section 306 IPC, the Appellant was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment
(„RI‟) for five years along with a fine of Rs. 5,000 and in default to
undergo simple imprisonment („SI‟) for three months. For the offence
under Section 498A IPC, the Appellant was sentenced to undergo RI CRL.A. No. 155 of 2010 Page 1 of 16 for one year along with a fine of Rs. 5,000 and in default to undergo
SI for three months. 2. On 21st October 2005, a daily dairy (DD) entry No. 24 was received
by the Police Post („PP‟) Madangir, New Delhi under Police Station
(„PS‟) Ambedkar Nagar, New Delhi that a woman had committed
suicide at House No. 273, RPS Colony, Khanpur, New Delhi. On
receiving the said DD entry, Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Virender
Singh (PW-11) along with Constable Brij Bhushan Tyagi (PW-10)
reached the spot and found one woman hanging from the fan
suspended by a chunni on the second floor of the building. A young
girl, 21/2 years old, was found weeping there. Upon inquiry, PW-11
learnt that the name of the deceased was Mamta, wife of Keshav, the
Appellant herein, and the name of the child was Gungun. PW-11 then
informed the Station House Officer (SHO) and the senior officers. The
crime team and the Sub Divisional Magistrate („SDM‟) were called. 3. Mr. Manish Garg (PW-12), who was the SDM of Hauz Khas, New
Delhi on receiving the message from the police, proceeded to the spot.
He prepared the unnatural death report (Ex. PW-12/A) and recorded
the statement of Ms. Kiran (PW-1), mother of the deceased. Her
statement was marked as PW-1/A. In the said statement, PW-1 stated
that Mamta was working at Gandhi T.V. Shop, Madangir, New Delhi
and that the Appellant was also working there. The Appellant was
stated by PW-1 to have telephoned her and informed that her
daughter, Mamta, had run away with someone. Thereafter, the CRL.A. No. 155 of 2010 Page 2 of 16 Appellant took PW-1 to Arya Samaj Ashram at Bhogal, New Delhi.
The pandit there showed them the register which revealed that no
marriage had taken place of any person by the name of Mamta. After
a few days, PW-1 received a call from Mamta informing her that she
was staying with the Appellant who was regularly giving her beatings.
He was also threatening her that he was a policeman and if she
informed her mother about the beatings, she would be killed.
Thereafter, PW-1 learnt that Mamta was living at Pushp Vihar. When
PW-1 went to meet Mamta at Pushp Vihar, she saw a child with her.
Mamta was then brought with the child to her parents' place at
Madangir. Mamta lived there for about eight months. Sometime later,
the Appellant is stated to have met Mamta and begged for forgiveness
and taken her back. After that PW-1 only heard about her daughter
when she was asked to come to PS Ambedkar and was informed about
the death of Mamta by hanging. PW-1 stated that she suspected that it
was not a case of suicide and it was the Appellant who had murdered
her daughter and that he should be punished. 4. The father of Mamta, Umeed Singh (PW-5), also gave a statement
to the SDM (Ex.PW-5/A) in which he stated that Mamta used to tell
him that the Appellant used to demand dowry from her. He also stated
that Mamta told him that the Appellant was already married and had
two children from his first marriage. In his statement, PW-5 stated that
about 21/2 years back, the Appellant had shown him and PW-1, the
marriage certificate of Mamta and Keshav. To verify the said
certificate, PW-1 and PW-5 had gone to Arya Samaj Mandir, Bhogal. They found that no such marriage certificate had been issued. PW-5
further stated that Mamta was living with the Appellant, who used to
constantly beat her and demand dowry. PW-5 stated that he learnt of
the death of Mamta when he returned home on the night of 21 st
October 2005. 5. The postmortem report (Ex.PW-8/A) opined that the death of
Mamta was on account of asphyxia due to antemortem hanging. 6. In her statement to the police during investigation (Ex.PW-11/B),
PW-1 stated that on 31st January 2003, at around 8 pm, the Appellant
had telephoned her and called her to M.K. Electronics. When she
reached there, the Appellant gave her a document and told her that it
was given by her daughter Mamta who had run away with someone.
From the said document, it appeared that Mamta had married one
Rohit Sharma at the Arya Samaj Mandir, Jangpura. Subsequently,
PW-1 gave a complaint at the Madangir PP and thereafter the police
called the Appellant for questioning. Mamta arrived there and told the
Police that she was 20 years old and had gone with the Appellant out
of her own free will. In June 2003, PW-1 and PW-5 learnt that Mamta
had given birth to a baby girl. Mamta conveyed to PW-1 over the
phone that thereafter the Appellant used to get drunk and subject
Mamta to beatings and mental cruelty. PW-1 stated that Mamta was
not being given any money for daily expenditure. PW-1 then brought
Mamta back to her house and she stayed there for about 5-6 months.
The Appellant then persuaded Mamta to come back by threatening CRL.A. No. 155 of 2010 Page 4 of 16 that he would falsely implicate her father in some criminal cases. The
Appellant continued giving threats to PW-1 over telephone. PW-1
finally heard of her daughter only when the police informed her of
Mamta‟s death. 7. The Police arrested the Appellant who was residing in Pushp Vihar.
By an order dated 12th April 2006 of the trial Court, charges were
framed against the Appellant for the offences under Sections 306 and 498-A IPC. 8. The prosecution examined 15 witnesses. In his statement under Section 313 Cr PC, the Appellant admitted that he was, in the year
2002, working at Gandhi T.V. Shop in Madangir and that Mamta was
working at the same shop for about a year. He denied having given
any document/certificate to Mamta‟s parents regarding his marriage
with Mamta at the Arya Samaj Mandir. He stated that "The envelope
was not given by me to the parents of Mamta but it was given by one
Pritpal, who was also working at the shop of Gandhi. I was told the
next day by mother of Mamta that envelope was found containing a
Certificate of Marriage between Rohit Sharma and Mamta issued by
the Arya Samaj Mandir, Jangpura, Bhogal. I was told the facts by the
mother of Mamta. I had not seen them at the shop of Gandhi." The
Appellant denied having any relationship with Mamta. He denied
residing at 273, RPS Colony, Khanpur. When asked whether he had
anything else to say, the Appellant stated as under: 9. The Appellant examined Sub-Inspector Kalu Ram (DW-1), who
brought the copy of DD No. 16 dated 16th February 2003 regarding
Mamta going missing. The entry was marked as DW-1/D1. He also
marked DD No. 13 (DW-1/D2) dated 14th March 2003 at 7:55 pm
which records the statement of PW-1 at PP Madangir stating that
Mamta had returned. DW-1 added that "Both Mamta and Rohit
Sharma had come to the police post and told me that they are major.
The accused present in the court was not the boy Rohit Sharma. On
receiving missing report of Mamta I had visited the TV shop of the
accused- Gandhi Electronics, Madangir. The person who had come
with Mamta in the police post Madangir was a different person." In
his cross-examination by the learned APP, DW-1 stated that both the
DD entries were not in his handwriting and that he had no personal
knowledge of the case registered against the Appellant in FIR No. 669
of 2005. 10. Subhash Chander, Sub-Registrar Births and Deaths, Mandir Marg,
was examined as DW-2. He brought a copy of the birth certificate and
register which showed that at entry No.5129 dated 30 th June 2003, a
female child was shown to have been born with the father‟s name
shown as Rohit and the mother‟s name as Mamta. This document was
marked as exhibit DW-2/A. There was no cross-examination of this
witness by the learned APP. 11. Raj Kumar Wadhwa was examined as DW-3. He spoke about the
fact that he had arranged a loan of Rs. 75,000 for being given to PW-1
at the instance of the Appellant. It had been agreed that PW-1 would
pay interest to him at Rs. 1,000 per month. PW-1 paid him for two
months and thereafter defaulted. In his cross-examination, he stated
that he knew nothing about Mamta or whether she was married to the
Appellant or that she had committed suicide because of harassment by
him. 12. The learned trial Court, on an analysis of the evidence, came to the
following conclusions: 13. This Court has heard the submissions of Mr. Dharmendra
Vashisht, learned counsel for the Appellant and of Ms. Isha Khanna,
learned APP. 14. The first and the foremost question is whether the prosecution had CRL.A. No. 155 of 2010 Page 8 of 16 been able to prove that the Appellant and the deceased Mamta were
married. The prosecution got marked through Kiran (PW-1) the copy
of the marriage certificate given to her by the Appellant as 'Mark A'.
The complaint given by PW-1 regarding her daughter going missing
given to PP Madangir was marked as 'Mark B'. An examination of
Mark A shows that it is the certificate of the marriage of the Appellant
with Renu (PW-6) and is dated 6th September 1996. This was
purportedly signed by the pandit Satya Prakash Shashtri (PW-13).
However, the marriage certificate which PW-1 speaks of was
purportedly of the marriage between Rohit Sharma and Mamta. That
marriage certificate has not been placed on record. Mark A, which is
on the file, was in fact not shown to PW-13 when he was examined.
He was asked about the marriage conducted on „16.3.2002 at Arya
Samaj Mandir‟ and he stated „I did not issue any marriage certificate
regarding the marriage of Rohit Sharma.‟ 15. Ms. Isha Khanna, learned APP, stated that for some reason the
copy of the certificate of marriage of Rohit Sharma with Mamta,
which was in the police file, was not placed on the judicial record.
Perhaps because PW-13 was clear that no such certificate was issued
by him, the police did not place it on the judicial record. Further, it
was in the evidence of both PWs 1 and 5 that when they went to the
Arya Samaj Mandir at Bhogal to verify if such a marriage had taken
place, they were told by PW-13 that there was no record of any such
marriage. 16. The complaint by PW-1 in the first instance about her daughter
going missing was made on 16th February 2003 at PP Madangir. This
was nearly 16 days after her daughter went missing. In the said
complaint, she stated that on 1st February 2003, Mamta had gone to
her grandmother‟s place at Wazirpur, but had not returned. In the said
complaint, she made no mention of the Appellant having come to
them on 31st January 2003 and giving them a copy of a marriage
certificate regarding the marriage of Mamta. In her cross-examination,
she stated that she knew the Appellant from childhood, but claimed
that she did not know whether he was married to PW-6. PW-1 came to
know after the death of her daughter that the Appellant was having
three children from wedlock with PW-6. That the above complaint
was given by PW-1 at PP Madangir, 16 days after her daughter went
missing was confirmed by the DD entry (DW-1/D1) brought by DW- 1. This entry dated 16th February 2003 notes that PW-1 only spoke of
Mamta going to her Nani's place and not returning. The next relevant
DD entry was dated 14th March 2003 (nearly a month after PW-1‟s
initial complaint), with the time 7:55 pm, recording the statement of
PW-1 that Mamta had returned; that she had married Rohit Sharma,
s/o Gopal Sharma, r/o Rajasthan; that she was six months pregnant
and that she wished to go back with her husband out of her free will. It
is significant that in the evidence of DW-1, he stated that both Mamta
and the said Rohit Sharma had come to the PP. However, he was
categorical that "the accused person in the Court was not the boy
Rohit." There was hardly any cross-examination of DW-1 by the
learned APP. His evidence that it was Rohit Sharma who had come CRL.A. No. 155 of 2010 Page 10 of 16 with Mamta to PP Madangir and not the Appellant remained
unchallenged. This part of the evidence has not been discussed by the
learned trial Court at all. 17. Another significant aspect of the identity of Rohit Sharma came
out in the evidence of Mr. Vishnu Dev Gaba (PW-3), the owner of
house No. 273, RPS Colony, Khanpur. He stated that he was the
owner of the entire house, the second floor of which was where
Mamta was residing and where she was found hanging from the
ceiling fan. He stated that the second floor was given on rent to Rohit
Sharma who was residing with his wife and child. He stated that the
said Rohit Sharma was not present in the Court that day. Obviously,
the witness had turned hostile and was permitted to be cross-examined
by the learned APP. In his cross-examination, he claimed that "I have
seen Rohit Sharma once at the house itself. He was of blackish colour
about 30 years and 5 feet 5 inches tall." He then categorically stated
that "It is incorrect to suggest that the house was given on rent to the
accused present in the Court today." 18. The next witness relevant in this context is Lalita Devi (PW-2),
who was working as a maid servant at the house where the deceased
was found hanging. She stated that she did not know the name of the
husband but only knew the name of the child as Gungun. She stated
that "I only saw the wife/lady hanging and since I never saw her
husband, so I cannot say whether the accused present in the court was
her husband or not." In her cross-examination by the learned APP, it CRL.A. No. 155 of 2010 Page 11 of 16 was recorded that "Accused Keshav is shown to the witness but
witness was unable to identify him." 19. As a result, there was no evidence to show that the Appellant and
Mamta were married or that the Appellant was residing with Mamta in
the house where she was found hanging. The evidence of PWs 1 and 5
does not inspire confidence. The police had failed to investigate who
Rohit Sharma was and to conclusively establish that Rohit and Keshav
(the Appellant), were one and the same person. One possibility was
for the prosecution to file an application praying that the Appellant
should give a sample for DNA testing. This was not done for some
reason. With there being no evidence of the marriage between Mamta
and Rohit it was erroneous for the trial Court to have concluded to the
contrary on account of their living as husband and wife to the
knowledge of society or on account of long cohabitation between the
two, both of which have also not been proved. 20. On the other hand, from the evidence of PW-6, it is clear that she
and the Appellant have been married since 1996 and their marriage
certificate is on record. In the Court, the landlord of the house (PW-3),
i.e., 273, RPS Colony, Khanpur was recalled and further examined by
the learned APP. PW-3 stated that Rohit Sharma had been introduced
to his wife by Raj Rani, r/o 19/529, DDA Flats, Madan Giri. He
denied his previous statement to the police. The said Raj Rani was not
produced as a witness. 21. The existence of a valid marriage is a sine qua non for attracting
the offence under Section 498-A IPC. In Shivcharan Lal Verma v.
State of Madhya Pradesh JT 2002 (2) SC 641, a three-Judge Bench
of the Supreme Court set aside the conviction of the Appellant therein
under Section 498-A IPC when it was shown that the marriage of the
accused with the deceased had taken place during the subsistence of
an earlier valid marriage of the husband. The subsequent marriage was
therefore null and void. Subsequently in Reema Aggarwal v. Anupam (2004) 3 SCC 199, a two-judge Bench of the Supreme Court without
noticing the decision in Shivcharan Lal Verma v. State of Madhya
Pradesh (supra), held that a person "who contracts marriage
ostensibly and cohabitates with such woman, in the purported exercise
of his role and status as a „husband' would fall within the expression
„husband‟ under Section 498 A IPC." 22. However, even in terms of the decision in Reema Aggarwal v.
Anupam (supra), there has to be some clear evidence to show that
either there was a marriage between the Appellant and Mamta or that
they did cohabit for a long time as husband and wife. Barring the
unreliable testimonies of PWs 1 and 5, there is no clear evidence to
prove this. 23. The evidence of PWs 1 and 5, as noticed earlier, does not inspire
confidence. They have been making improvements at every stage of
the case. As far as PW-1 is concerned, when she gave a statement to
the PP Madangir on 16th February 2003, she made no mention of the CRL.A. No. 155 of 2010 Page 13 of 16 Appellant having given her and PW-5 a copy of any marriage
certificate on 31st January 2003. In her statement to the SDM, PW-1
did not mention that the Appellant and Mamta were married. She also
made no mention of the fact that on 14th March 2003 at PP Madangir,
Mamta had returned and had gone back with Rohit Sharma out of her
free will and that she was married to the said Rohit Sharma. For the
third time in her statement to the police (Ex. PW-11/B), PW-1 again
made no mention about Mamta having married Rohit Sharma. Her
statement in the Court about the Appellant having married Mamta is
therefore a substantial improvement over her previous statements. 24. As far as PW-5 is concerned, he stated that the marriage certificate
brought by the Appellant to them, showed the marriage of Keshav
with Mamta, whereas, even according to the prosecution, it showed
the marriage of Rohit Sharma with Mamta and in any event, that
certificate was never placed on the judicial record. PW-13 stated that
he never issued any such marriage certificate. PWs 1 and 5 have also
been inconsistent about their statements concerning the demands of
dowry or of cruelty. 25. For the above reasons, this Court is unable to concur with the
finding of the learned trial Court that there was a marriage between
the deceased and the Appellant; that they had been cohabiting as
husband and wife or that they were living as husband and wife.
Consequently, the question of convicting the Appellant for the offence
under Section 498-A IPC does not arise. 26. Turning to the offence under Section 306 IPC, it would have to be
shown that Mamta was subjected to cruelty by the Appellant in
proximity to the date of her death. In Gangula Mohan Reddy v. State
of Andhra Pradesh JT 2010 (1) SC 17, the Supreme Court cautioned
as under: 27. The evidence of the maid servant (PW-2) does not support the
case of the prosecution that there was any incident of harassment or
cruelty towards Mamta by the Appellant. The Appellant has not been
proved to have been residing at 273, RPS Colony, Khanpur, where
Mamta was found hanging. The postmortem report showed no notice
of external injuries (apart from the ligature mark on the neck due to
hanging). The death report of the SDM did not as well. Therefore the
question of Mamta being subject to any physical cruelty is ruled out.
To prove mental cruelty, there has to be some clear and cogent
evidence. It would be unsafe to proceed to draw any inference on the
basis of the evidence of PWs 1 and 5 who are not reliable. In any
event even according to them, after the alleged incidents of cruelty as CRL.A. No. 155 of 2010 Page 15 of 16 told to them by Mamta, she resumed living with her husband, who on
the record was Rohit Sharma and who was not shown to be the same
person as the Appellant. The learned trial Court has observed that the
cruelty resulted as a consequence of the Appellant not disclosing to
Mamta that he was already married. However, that was not the case of
the prosecution. This explains why the said circumstance was not put
to the Appellant under Section 313 Cr PC. In terms of the judgment in Sujit Biswas v. State of Assam 2013 [3] JCC 1887, the failure to put
such a circumstance to the accused would preclude it from being used
against him. As explained in Ramesh Kumar v. State of Chhattisgarh (2001) 9 SCC 618, for the presumption under Section 113A of the EA
to be attracted, "the foundation thereof must exist", which in this case
was to prove that the Appellant was the husband of Mamta. The
prosecution failed to prove the said foundational fact. 28. For the aforementioned reasons, this Court sets aside the
impugned judgment dated 12th December 2009 and the order on
sentence dated 21st December 2009 of the learned trial Court. The
appeal is allowed in the above terms. In terms of Section 437A Cr PC,
the bail bond and the surety bond furnished by the Appellant will
continue for a period of three months. S. MURALIDHAR, J. SEPTEMBER 5, 2014
tp CRL.A. No. 155 of 2010 Page 16 of 16