The learned counsel for the petitioner is directed to

 remove all the defects pointed out by the Stamp Reporter within one

 month. At the outset, learned counsel for the petitioner submits

 that name of the court has wrongly been mentioned in prayer portion

 of the petition. He may be permitted to correct the same by filing

 supplementary affidavit. Let him do so. Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and the State

 through Video Conferencing. Petitioner seeks regular bail in a case registered for the

 offence punishable under Section 392 of the Indian Penal Code,

 As per allegation three accused persons stopped the

 informant when he was running his motorcycle and thereafter

 accused persons looted his motorcycle, mobile phone by putting him

 in fear by showing pistol. Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.20399 of 2022(2) dt.08-07-2022 2/3 The main submissions advanced by the learned counsel

 for the petitioner are that petitioner was not arrested at the spot, he

 was not put on TI Parade after his arrest and name of the petitioner

 came into light in the confessional statement of co-accused Hema

 Kumar before police which has no evidentiary value, he has been

 languishing in jail since 24.8.2021, investigation has been completed

 and one co-accused Pappu Kumar has been granted bail vide order

 passed in Cr. Misc. no. 16930/2022 and petitioner has got no criminal

 history. Learned APP opposes the prayer for bail. Having considered the above submissions, petitioner's

 clean antecedent as mentioned in the order of the learned court below

 and also the fact that investigation has been completed in connection

 with the petitioner and alleged looted motorcycle is stated to have

 been recovered from co-accused Hema Kumar as reflected from the

 order of the learned court below and with the implictity of the

 petitioner in the alleged crime prosecution is mainly relying upon

 statement of the co-accused Hema Kumar, in my view, a lenient

 approach may be taken in respect of the petitioner. Let the petitioner

 be released on bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs.10,000/- (ten

 thousand) with two sureties of the like amount each to the

 satisfaction of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Bhojpur at Ara/

 concerned court in Chandi P.S Case No. 162 of 2021 on the

 following conditions:- The court below will verify the criminal antecedent of the

 petitioner but acceptance of bail bond will not be delayed on account

 of process of verification of the said criminal antecedent. If any

 criminal antecedent of the petitioner is found then the court below

 shall take serious action against him for cancellation of his bail bond. (Shailendra Singh, J)
s.hassan/-