This Writ Petition is filed questioning the action of

the 3rd respondent in directing the 4th respondent, without any

information to the petitioner, to freeze the petitioner's bank

account bearing No. 409001155281 with RBL, Andheri Marol

Branch, IFSC Code RATN0000192 as illegal and arbitrary. 2. Sri T. Pradyumna Kumar Reddy, learned Senior

Counsel appearing on behalf of Sri Vishal Porandla, learned

counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner is a

financial technology company registered under the Companies

Act, 1956 with an aim to compete with traditional financial

methods in the delivery of financial services. It performs the

functions of delivering credit to the underprivileged,

underserved segments of the society through small loans for

serving their various needs. It is submitted that the petitioner is

a lending facility designed to empower various poor and

underprivileged people and operates through its fintech partners

who own and operate platforms through which the loans are

procured by the underprivileged sections of the society. It is

submitted that on 05.03.2022, while trying to make transaction 2 from its RBL Bank Account No. 409001155281 with Andheri

Marol Branch, all of a sudden, the transaction was declined. It

is submitted that on enquiry with the 4th respondent bank, the

petitioner was orally informed that upon instructions of the 3rd

respondent to freeze the bank account, the same was frozen on

05.03.2022 and the account continues to be frozen even as on

the date of filing of the Writ Petition. Learned Senior Counsel

submits that the respondent bank has not given any further

information and it is also informed to the 3rd respondent that

their actions are causing severe business loss and damage to

the petitioner. It is submitted that the 3rd respondent simply

stated that FIR No. 325 of 2022 was registered on the basis of

the complaint given by one R. Jhansirani and they are

conducting investigation and the procedure will go on and he

cut the call abruptly. He submits that the case of the

complainant is that due to some family emergency, she needed

a loan and she searched on Google Play Store where she saw

the cash pocket App and she has submitted all her details along

with her Aadhar card, pan card and selfie photo and that she

has taken a loan of Rs.5,500/- and within five days, she had

paid Rs.10,000/- and in the same way, she had taken multiple

loans from few Apps. She also alleges that in time, she is unable 3 to pay and the petitioner has suggested her to take a loan from

other Apps for which they sent links. A total amount of

Rs. 75,000/- has been transferred to her account from 35 Apps.

She stated that she has repaid Rs.1,73,046/- and the petitioner

company is blackmailing to pay the amount again and sending

morphed photos, videos, Aadhar card, pan card copies to all her

contact lists. It is submitted by the learned Senior Counsel that

all these allegations are made with an intention to cause

disrepute to the petitioner's company and nothing has been

established by the complainant. It is submitted that the de facto

complainant is not a customer to the petitioner company and

the company is no way connected with the said crime. Learned

Senior Counsel submits that the bank has adopted a very

arbitrary approach while freezing the accounts of the petitioner

company without bothering to scrutinize the entries and nature

of transactions. He submits that before exercising the power

under Section 102 Cr.P.C., the police officer has to assess the

need to freeze the bank account and after formation of an

opinion, supported by reasons he can freeze. According to him,

in the instant case, no reasons are stated and with an ulterior

motive, he has bypassed the law and seized the accounts of the

petitioner company. He submits that the action of the 3rd 4 respondent in not informing the magistrate forthwith is also in

gross violation of Section 102(3) Cr.P.C. and the entire action of

the 3rd respondent is liable to be set aside. It is submitted that

before freezing the account, no notice is given to the petitioner.

Hence, the petitioner having no other alternative has come up

before this Court. Learned Senior Counsel submits that Section 102(1) Cr.P.C. gives power to police authorities to freeze / seize if

suspicion arises and the 3rd respondent has seized the account

of the petitioner, however, he has failed to provide any written

reasonable justification for freezing the account. He submits

that the 3rd respondent has failed to comply with the procedure

of seizure / freezing enumerated in Section 102(3) Cr.P.C.

wherein the report needs to be forthwith forwarded to the

Magistrate. He relied on the judgment of this Court in A.P.

Products v. State of Telangana (W.P.No. 13363 and 10565 of

2020) and submits that the Magistrate has to be informed

within reasonable time without any undue delay. He submits

that so far, the report is not submitted. The learned Senior

Counsel also relied on the order passed by this Court in

Meridian Educational Society v. The State of Telangana

(W.P.No. 21106 of 2021) and submits that if there is any 5 violation in following the procedure under Section 102 Cr.P.C.,

freezing of account cannot be legally-sustained. He has also

relied on the judgment of the High Court of Karnataka at

Bengaluru in Writ Petition Nos. 13516-13518 (GM-Police)

wherein the Court has opined that unless and until there is a

strong suspicion against the petitioners therein, the police

would not be justified in freezing the account belonging to the

petitioners. For, such freezing of account adversely affects the

right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution of India but in

order to balance the conflicting interests of the petitioners, with

the interest of the Investigating Agency and the interest of the

complainant, in the interest of justice, Respondents 1 and 2 are

directed to de-freeze the account belonging to the petitioners,

provided the petitioner submits a bond of Rs.20,00,000/- before

the Sessions Judge before whom the present case is pending. 3. Learned Government Pleader for Home Sri Srikanth

Reddy basing on the written instructions, submits that during

the course of investigation into the complaint of the complainant

and other cases, the 3rd respondent has sent notices to Razor

Pay Payment Gateway with a request to furnish the details of all

the loan Apps and also obtained the details of beneficiary

account holders involved in the money transactions in the said 6 cases. It is submitted that during the investigation, the

respondent police came to know that one of the beneficiary with

A/c No. 409001155281 of RBL Bank has been involved in the

said case, as such, notice was sent to the RBL bank and got

freezed the said account. It is submitted that notice was issued

to the petitioner to submit certain information pertaining to the

petitioner company and its activities for the purpose of

investigation and intimation was given to the Hon'ble XII ACMM

Court, Nampally, Hyderabad regarding freezing of the said

account. It is submitted that regularly huge numbers of victims

are approaching the Cyber Crime Police Station, Hyderabad and

so far, more than 50 cases regarding harassment by loan Apps

were registered at Cyber Crime P.S., CCS., DD, Hyderabad and

petitions were also being received and enquired into by them. 4. The grievance of the petitioner is that the

respondent police have freezed the account of the petitioner.

According to the petitioner, there is no substance in the

complaint and in view of the law laid down by the Karnataka

High Court, the petitioner is entitled for defreezing the account.

Further, the procedure was not followed by police and

intimation was not given to Magistrate as contemplated under

the provisions of the Cr.P.C. 5. The first and foremost issue that has to be decided

is about the maintainability of the Writ Petition. The account

has been freezed in connection with a crime and the police

under Section 102(3) Cr.P.C. have to file a report before the

Magistrate. In this case, the police have filed the report before

the Magistrate and there is no irregularity in complying with the

said provision. For seeking interim custody of any of the

properties, the only provision under the Cr.P.C . is Section 451 .

The petitioner has relied on the judgment rendered by the

Karnataka High Court wherein it was held that freezing of

account also affects right to life of the petitioner, as such, he

can maintain a Writ Petition. 6. Though there are no fetters in entertaining a writ

petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, whenever

a person complains of violation of his fundamental right or

statutory right, one of the self imposed restraint is when there is

statutorily engrafted adequate and efficacious alternative

remedy available to such person to redress his grievance the

court do not entertain the writ petition but relegate the party to

avail such remedy before invoking extraordinary jurisdiction of

this Court. Bhimidipati Annapoorna Bhavani v. Land Acquisition Officer, Yeluru Reservoir

Project, Peddapuram, East Godavari District, A.P. and others1, 7. The writ remedy is no doubt an extraordinary

remedy and in every case just because a case is made out on

action / inaction of an authority vested with power, the Writ

Court will not entertain the writ petition and the affected party

has to avail the remedy available under law. In Whirlpool

Corporation v. Registrar of Trade Marks, Mumbai2 , the

Hon'ble Apex Court has observed that under Article 226 of the

Constitution, the High Court having regard to the facts and

circumstances has discretion to entertain or not to entertain a

Writ Petition but the High Court has imposed certain

restrictions one of which is that if an effective alternative

remedy is available, the High court would not normally exercise

the jurisdiction. But the alternative remedy has been

consistently held by this Court not to operate as a bar in at

least three contingencies; namely where the writ petition has

been filed for the enforcement of any of the Fundamental Rights

or where there has been a violation of the principle of natural

justice or where the order or proceedings are wholly without

jurisdiction or the vires of an Act is challenged. 1 2005(3) ALD 233(LB) 2 (1998) 8 SCC 1 9 8. In the light of the law laid down by this Court and

the Apex Court referred to supra, when there is a statutorily-

engrafted adequate and efficacious alternative remedy available

to the person, who complains, to redress his grievance, the

Court do not entertain the writ petition but relegate the party to

avail such remedy before invoking extraordinary jurisdiction of

this Court. In this case, the effective alternative remedy

available to the petitioner is to file an Application under Section

451 Cr.P.C. which is an effective alternative remedy, but not a

Writ Petition invoking Article 226 of the Constitution of India. In

the judgments that are relied on by the petitioner, the

maintainability of the writ petition was neither questioned nor

answered. Hence, those judgments are not applicable to the

facts of this case. 9. Learned Senior Counsel submits that the petitioner

is not arrayed as an accused in the crime and further, without

issuing any notice to the petitioner, the account has been

freezed. At this stage, it is appropriate to look at Section 102 Cr.P.C. which reads as under: The investigating officer basing on the material and

investigation done so far emerging from the transactions done

from the bank account which created suspicion of commission

of offence has exercised the discretion. Further, such discretion

exercised by the officer cannot be found fault with nor this

Court can interfere with the investigation process. Issuance of

prior notice is not contemplated under Section 102 Cr.P.C. and

this issue is no more res integra. Section 451 Cr.P.C. or Section

102 Cr.P.C. do not make any distinction between an accused or

any other person. When the account of a person who is not an

accused is seized, still he has to go before the Court below and

file an Application under Section 451 Cr.PC. 10. In this case, it is alleged that the innocent people

are trapped in the form of software loans and other loans. Police 11 after seizing the account as contemplated under Section 102 Cr.P.C. has intimated the same to the Court as such there is no

procedural illegality. Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India is not maintainable as there is an effective

alternative remedy available under Section 451 Cr.P.C. 11. Hence, the Writ Petition is disposed of directing the

petitioner to avail the appropriate alternative remedy available

to him under law. There shall be no order as to costs. 12. The Miscellaneous Applications, if any shall stand

automatically closed. ----------------------------------- LALITHA KANNEGANTI, J
27th April 2022

ksld 12 13