The revision petitioners are defendants in O.S.No.547 of
2011 on the file of Principal Senior Civil Judge, Chittoor, and the
revision respondent is the sole plaintiff. 2. The suit filed is for the relief of specific performance of
the contract for sale dated 23.10.2010 and in the alternative for
refund of the advance amount of Rs.1,00,000/- with interest from
the sale agreement till date of its recovery with costs of suit and
for such other reliefs. The plaint schedule property consists of
total Ac.1-94 cents of Kondepalle Gram Panchayat, GD Nellore 
Mandal, Chittoor District in S.Nos.62, 70/3A, 70/4, 71, 72/1,
73/7, 73/9, 99 & 106 out of the full extents put together supra.
Along with plaint filed in November 2011 the documents filed are
sale agreement supra, legal notice, reply, rejoinder, reply and
proof of service. The defendants contest is that the suit sale
agreement is a rank forgery and it was never executed and not
signed by the defendants and they received no advance and never
agreed to sell the property or any portion thereof much less to
plaintiff and it is a spur document created by husband of plaintiff
in the name of the plaintiff after knowledge about the registered
sale dated 26.06.2011 executed by the 1st defendant and his wife
in favour of the 2nd defendant-V.Chinchu Naidu for Rs.2,70,000/-
having received consideration pursuant to the sale and put in
possession and because of family differences between the
plaintiffs husband and the 1st defendant in respect of some dry
land, plaintiffs husband created the so called agreement to black
mail the 1st defendant and other contentions. The suit from the
respective pleadings and issues was in the progress of trial. The
plaintiff as PW.1 filed in chief examination and it is coming for
cross examination of PW.1 from 01.09.2016 where chief affidavit
was taken on oath and Exs.A1 to A13 marked and after filing of
chief affidavit a petition for appointment of advocate
commissioner filed and on 01.09.2016 one P.Balasubramanyam, 
advocate is appointed as commissioner to record cross
examination of PW.1 and fee of Rs.600/- payable by both parties.
Subsequently the commissioner neither executed the warrant nor 
returned when the matter was so coming and said advocate 
P.Balasubramanyam warrant is cancelled and another advocate 
G.Saleem is appointed in his place to execute the warrant, which
is also with no progress. It is said commissioner appointment for
cross examination of PW.1 impugned in the revision. 3. The grounds of revision are that the impugned order of
the court below is contrary to law and probabilities of the case
and the approach in appointment of advocate commissioner suo 
motu is unsustainable and is against the settled principles of law
that advocate commissioner cannot be appointed suo motu that 
too where substantial issues have to be decided and from the
contest by the defendants of the said sale agreement dated
23.10.2010 is a rank forgery and not signed and they did not
receive any consideration and never agreed to sell and thereby the
impugned order of the Court appointing advocate commissioner is
liable to be set aside. The learned counsel for the revision
petitioners reiterated the same and the learned counsel for the
respondent supported the impugned order. 4. In the course of hearing several aspects on the scope of
suo motu appointing of advocate commissioner raised as to how 
to accept an affidavit in chief examination if any portion is
inadmissible on the inception of affidavit averments on the
exercise of oath and the security to the documents if at all to give
to the commissioner for purpose of recording evidence etc., by
both parties requesting to pass a detailed order touching all these
aspects to solve the day to day problems in this regard. 5. Heard and perused the material on record and the
impugned order in the grounds of revision and the relevant
provisions and propositions. 6. Before coming to the factual matrix further in answering
the lis, coming to the legal position on the law of evidence and
reception of affidavit in evidence and appointment of advocate
commissioner by Court to take the affidavit on oath in chief
examination and to record cross examination concerned; with
reference to Sections 1 & 3 of Evidence Act, Order 18, Order 16,
Order 19 & Order 26 CPC and Section 30 CPC and similarly other 
provisions including in Section 14 of the Family Courts Act and CrPC on the affidavit evidence and the AP Civil Rules of Practice
and Circular Orders regarding affidavits and reception of evidence
and the scope; Law of Evidence Reception of affidavit in
evidence and appointment of Advocate Commissioner by Court to 
take the affidavit on oath in chief examination and to record
cross-examination: Ameer Trading Corp. vs. SDP Ltd while interpreting Order 18 R 4
and 5 for recording of evidence from the wording of Order-18
Rule-4-in every case-the examination in chief of a witness shall
be on affidavit - held that it does not make any distinction
between appealable and non-appealable cases so far as mode of 
recording evidence is concerned. Such a difference is to be found
only in Rules-5 & 13 of Order-18 CPC . (vii). The literal meaning of the words in every case clearly
indicates that the chief examination of a witness shall be on
affidavit. This wording got its own importance to a reasonable
conclusion that the affidavit by itself is not evidence in chief
examination. It is only when the affidavit filed in Court is taken
by Court as chief examination the statement of facts contained in
the affidavit amounts to evidence in chief examination. (viii). It is also because, though the heading of Order 18
Rule 4 CPC speaks about recording of evidence, out of the 8 sub
rules to the Rule 4, neither in Order 18 Rule 4(1) nor in the
proviso to it there is any mention or whisper of the word evidence
since affidavit by itself is not evidence. The Order 18 Rule 4 Sub-
rules (2), (3), (4-proviso) & (6) CPC have employed the word
evidence. It got its own significance. It is from the close reading
of Order 18 Rule 4 sub-rules 1 to 8 CPC ; it becomes clear that the
affidavit by itself is no evidence even it is filed in Court by party
deponent or by any other deponents as witnesses to support the
respective case of the parties. Once affidavit is filed, the Court has
to receive. (ix). Coming to the interpretation of the word shall in Order
18 Rule 4(1) the Apex Court in the Salem Advocates Bar
Association Case -AIR 2003-SC-189 at paras 17 to 19 observed 
that from the reading of Order 18 and Order 16 together, it is
evident that Order 18 Rule 4(1) applies to a case where a party to
a suit without applying for summoning brings any witness to give
evidence or produce any document, examination in chief of such
witness not to be recorded in Court but shall be in the form of an
affidavit. Whereas a witness is summoned the Court can direct to
file affidavit or can give option to the witness either to file affidavit
or to be present in Court for his examination and the Court can
even record evidence in part and direct Court commissioner to
record in part. (x) Even from the above, an affidavit-for chief examination
filed as per Order 18 Rule 4 CPC , for no express bar though taken
as part of Court record to read as evidence, it shall not have that
sanctity, like a commissioners report for the fact that
commissioner is an officer of the Court and order 26 Rule 10 and
R.8 r/w Or.26-A (by AP. Amendment) says report and evidence 
taken by Commissioner is to be read as evidence. Further it is
not like arbitration proceedings to say that Evidence Act & CPC despite made not applicable specifically by Section 19(1) of the
Act 1996, the Arbitration proceedings can contain recording of
evidence for appreciation and to pass reasoned award. There
infact Section 19(2) & (3) enables the parties to agree to the
procedure to be followed or an Arbitrator can follow his own
appropriate procedure to conduct proceedings. In Order 18 Rule 4
CPC there is no such provision. (xi) Apart from it, the very Order 18 Rule 4 proviso CPC speaks about cross examination of the deponent based on his 
affidavit in chief examination and remarks about demeanor etc.
which are the incidences of evidence covered by the Evidence Act provisions one way or other and as such application of Indian
Evidence Act provisions are necessary in reality, that is also taken
care of to some extent in Order 18 Rule 4(2) CPC . (8). Whether Order 18 Rule 4 is applicable to appealable
cases concerned: appealable cases, the Affidavit can be taken on record by resort to
the provisions of Order 18 Rule 13. In other words, mere
production of affidavit by witness will empower the court to take
such affidavit on record as forming part of the evidence by
recording the memorandum in respect of production of such
affidavit in all cases except in the appealable cases wherein it is
necessary for the court to record evidence of production of
Affidavit in respects of examination in chief by making the
deponent to produce such affidavit as per Rule 5. (b). Thus in all appealable cases though the examination in
chief of a witness is permissible to be produced in the form of
affidavit, such affidavit can not be ordered to form part of
evidence unless the Deponent thereof enters the witness box and
confirms that the contents of the affidavit are as per his say and
the affidavit is under his signature and this statement being
made on oath to be recorded by following the procedure
prescribed under Rule 5. (c). In fact in Ameer Trading Crop. Supra, Rule-19 of
Order 18 CPC was not considered while reading Rules 5, 4 and 13. It appears from the reading of Order 18 Rules-1 to 19 that
Order 18 Rule 4 is to be read with reference to Order 18 Rule 19,
to understand the impact of Order 18 Rules 5 & 13. Order 18
Rule 5 says that in appealable cases, the evidence of each
witness shall be (a) taken down in the Court language (i) in
writing by or in the presence and under the personal direction
and superintendence of the Judge or from dictation of Judge
directly on a typewriter or to record mechanically in Court
language on direction and in the presence of the Judge. Thus in
appealable cases evidence (which phrase includes as per Sections
135 to 139 & 141 Evidence Act, chief, cross and re-examination
and leading questions subject to admissibility), to be recorded by
the Court. (d). Order 18 Rule 13 says in non-appealable cases the
procedure in Rule 4 not necessary. Originally before (2002
Amendment) Order 18 Rule 4 also speaks about recording of 
evidence of a witness present in open Court. The above referred
Order 18 Rules 4, 5 & 13 were previously amended by CPC 1976 
Amendment. (e). Order 18 Rule 4 (1) since amended commences with the
words in every case examination in chief of a witness shall be on
affidavit. This indicates that the word every case reflects the
purpose for which it is enacted unless something is occurring to
interpret for its restricted application to non appealable cases.
Further as per Order 18 Rule 19 Amended by 1999 CPC Amendment ( Sec.27 [iv]) w.e.f.01.7.2002 in force, notwithstanding
anything contained in these Rules 1 to 18 of Order 18 CPC , the
Court may, instead of examining witnesses in open Court, direct
their statements to be recorded on commission under Order 26 
Rule 4A. Thus, the Order 18 Rule 5 virtually became shadow
legislation to the above extent. (Since Order 18 Rule 19 enables
recording of Evidence on commission by giving go-bye to the spirit
of Order 18 Rule 5). (f). Further, after the CPC Amendment Order 26 Rule 4A
CPC reads that - notwithstanding anything contained in the
Rules under Order 26, any Court may issue commission in any 
suit for examination, interrogation or otherwise of a person
resident of the Courts jurisdiction and the evidence so recorded
shall be read in evidence. (g). Order 26 Rules 1 to 4 & 8 speaks of cases in which
Court may issue by order commission to examine witness and to 
read the deposition in evidence and Rules 3 & 5 cover the
examination by commission of a witness within Courts
jurisdiction and of a witness not within India. Order 26 Rules 15
to 18B & 21 are general rules as to expenses, powers of Court,
questions objected to before Court etc. (h) Now by virtue of Order 18 Rule 19 R/w. Rule 4 and
Order 26 Rule 4A, the Order 18 Rule 5 has no overriding effect;
otherwise Order 18 Rule 5 is shadowed by Order 18 Rule 19 R/w. 
Rule 4 & Order 26 Rule 4A, despite Order 18 Rule 4(1) not
commencing with a non obstinate clause, such as not with 
standing any thing contained in Order 18 Rule 5. It is apt to refer
the decision of Dharangadhara Chemical Works Vs. 
Dharangadhara Muncipality that if there is a repugnancy
between the two pieces of legislation dealing with the same
subject matter, to such an extent that both cannot stand together
and operate simultaneously, the later will have the effect of
impliedly repealing the former. From this though it can be said
that Order 18 Rule 4 procedure as per amended CPC is applicable 
even to appealable cases irrespective of what is contained in
Order 18 Rule 5, in view of the judgment of the Apex Court in
Ameer Trading Corp. supra, taking chief examination affidavit in
appealable cases is by examination of the deponent at the witness
box to confirm the contents of the affidavit that it is as per his say
and that it bears his signature. (i) No doubt this decision no where prohibits appointment
of an Advocate commissioner (among the panel of Advocates 
constituted or otherwise as the case maybe) to record cross and
re-examination and even in appealable cases as per Order 18
Rule 19 and Order 26 Rule 4A CPC including for taking as chief
examination by examination of the deponent of the affidavit on
oath by the commissioner to confirm the contents of the affidavit
that it is as per his say and it bears his signature by following the
procedure laid down in Order 18 Rule 5 and 19 r/w. Order 26
CPC . (j) In fact a full bench of this Court in Rita Pandit Vs. Atul
Pandit observed in Paras 9 to 17, on the scope of Order 18 Rules
4 & 5 CPC in answering a reference that the expressions in
Ameer Trading Corporation, dated 18.11.2003 by a two Judge 
Bench and Salem Bar Association-I, dated 25.10.2002 by a three 
Judge Bench referred saying in conflict in this regard of one to
the other, in answering both the expressions are not in conflict
since dealing with two different subjects and for any conflict from
its reading the later judgment is perincuriam for the earlier to
follow and by reconciling the two expressions it was held
particularly at Para 17 that: examination, it is necessary for the witness either to
confirm or differ the contents of the affidavit. After his
confirmation or denial of the contents of affidavit,
whatever recorded is the evidence and if the witness
confirms to the affidavit, the affidavit would become part
of the statement made by the deponent before the Court.
Therefore what is finally taken as evidence by the
Court is not the affidavit, but what is contained in the
affidavit, if confirmed by the dependent (sic.
deponent) when he appears before the Court for cross-
examination. Going by the two judgments of the
Supreme Court Salem Advocate Bar Association 
Tamilnadu v. Union of India ,( supra) and Ameer Trading
Corporation Ltd. v. Shapoorji Data Processing Ltd. (supra)
we hold 
 (1) that in all cases the examination-in-chief has to
be conducted by way of affidavits; (2) that in cases where the witness is not under the
control of the party who wants to examine him as a
witness, recourse can be taken to Order 16, Rule 1 of the
Code of Civil Procedure and after taking recourse to Order
16, Rule 1 of CPC and after he is summoned by the Court,
the witness can be asked either to file an affidavit or can
be examined in the Court itself. 18. The reference is accordingly answered. The
matter be placed before the appropriate Bench. (k). The appointment of an advocate commissioner to record
evidence is not a trial in camera for anybody to place reliance on
the 9 Judge Bench expression of the Apex court in Naresh
Sridhar Meerajkar Vs. State of Maharastra where it mainly
deals with publication of part of the court proceedings and trial
shall be open unless regulated by a statutory provision for
conducting in camera. (l). The spirit of the CPC amendments are evident that since
maximum time is consuming in recording oral evidence by the 
Courts which causes delay in disposal of cases, in order to reduce
such delay, the amended provisions are brought in for reception
of affidavits as evidence in chief examination and to permit chief,
cross and re-examination to be recorded by Commissioner in all
cases. The amended CPC thus empowers the Court or 
Commissioner appointed by a Court as officer of the Court, to
take evidence in all cases in chief examination of any witness by
affidavit (with equal enabling provision to the parties to file
affidavits in lieu of chief examination) and right of cross-
examination of such witness by an opposite party and also for re-
examination and recording of any remarks including in respect of
demeanor by such Commissioner of such witness during such 
examination. (m). Whether evidence can be recorded by Video Conference
concerned, the Apex Court in State of Maharashtra vs. Dr.Praful
B.Desai held that recording of evidence even in a criminal case
by way of video conferencing is permissible. So long as the
accused and/or his pleader is present when the evidence is
recorded by the said way it is recording of evidence in the
presence of the accused as per the requirements of Section 273 CrPC as per the procedure established by law. The term presence
does not mean actual physical presence as it includes even
virtual presence in Court by video and audio linkage between
both ends. Evidence since oral and documentary it can be
produced by way of electronic records including video conference
with in the definition of Section 3 Evidence Act. The Apex Court
laid down certain guidelines and conditions to record the evidence
through Video Conferencing. Similarly in a civil case in Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp vs. NRI Firm Production
Associates (P) Ltd. it was held that hearing suit and
examination of witnesses and recording of evidence by
commissioner contemplated by Order 18 Rule 4 from the words 
Witness in attendance are to be understood as person being
present and it need not be physical presence thus, recording of
evidence through Audio, Video link is permissible complying the
words in attendance. There are guidelines laid down therein for
the precautions to be taken in recording such evidence. (n). This court in Sirangai Shoba @ Shoba Munnuri Vs.
Sirangi Muralidhar Rao held from Para 22 onwards that: Though such a contention is raised in any case, it is to
consider as for sake of contention. People with legal
problems like people with pain, want relief and they want
it as quickly and inexpensively, as possible. This
observation is applicable even in the Indian context where
people come to Courts with legal problems and want relief
in a speedy manner and application of technologies with e-
Courts (video/audio conferencing or internet conferencing)
when helps in achieving said objective of speedy and
efficient justice to the common man. 24. Recording of evidence by video/audio/tele-
conferencing or internet conferencing is thus legally
permissible in both civil and criminal matters and even in
matrimonial matters. 25. In fact to overcome any difficulty of understanding the
existing provisions supra of CrPC , a proviso was inserted
to sub-section (1) to Section 275 of CrPC by Act 5 of 2009
(the Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, 
2008) which reads as follows: 26. From the aforesaid provision, it is to gather including
for civil matters that the evidence of a witness may be
recorded by audio-video electronic means to say even by
internet technology as once same is statutorily permissible
in criminal proceedings, equally and undoubtedly
permissible in all civil matters. 27. The core function of digital video recording
systems is to convert the audio and video signals from
various microphones and cameras into a digital format
and store it as a computer file (the video file). On the
same lines, the system for video recording of Court
proceedings will create a computer file, usually on the
computers hard drive. However, the permanent 
(archieve) file would be created by copying the file
from the hard drive to some other, often external,
medium, usually optical media such as DVDs. Any auto 
decoding and conversion is from binary language to
local language under command. 28. The landmark expression of the Apex Court in 2003 in State of Maharashtra Vs. Dr. Praful B. Desai , on the
scope of its permissibility and person need not physically
present, by considering the scope of Section 273 CrPC,
speaks that in cases where the attendance of a witness
cannot be procured without an amount of delay, expense 
or inconvenience, the Court could consider issuing a
commission to record evidence by way of video
conferencing. Normally a commission would involve
recording of evidence at the place where the witness is.
However, advancement in science and technology has now 
made it possible to record such evidence by way of video
conferencing in the town/city where the Court is. 29. Referring to the chances of witness abusing the trial
Judge during video conferencing, the apex Court in Dr.
Praful B. Desai supra observed in erudition that, as a
matter of prudence, evidence by video-conferencing in
open Court should be accepted only if the witness is in a
Country which has an extradition treaty and under whose
laws contempt of Court and perjury are punishable. 30. The Apex Court in Dr. Praful B. Desai supra then
directed the Mumbai Court to set up a commission and 
take help of VSNL in recording Dr. Greenbergs (Medical
witness) statement through video conferencing in the
presence of the two accused doctors. It also allowed the
two accused to cross- examine the US-based doctor, 
through video conferencing. 31. The Apex Court in Dr. Praful B. Desai supra by
rejecting all arguments and objections about inferior video
quality, disruption of link and other technical problems
and of rights of the accused under Article 21 could not be
subjected to a procedure involving virtual reality, holding
in answer to all the queries that- by now science and
technology has progressed enough to not worry about 
video image/audio interruptions or disruptions and video
conferencing has nothing to do with virtual reality and
gave the example of the telecast of the cricket World Cup
of it could not be said those who watched the World Cup
on television were witnessing virtual reality as they were
not in the stadium where the match was taking place.
This is not virtual reality, it is actual reality. Video
conferencing is an advancement of science and technology 
which permits one to see, hear and talk with someone far
away with the same facility as if he is present before you,
that is, in your presence. Recording of evidence by video
conferencing also satisfies the object of providing, in Section 273 CrPC, that evidence be recorded in the
presence of the accused. 32. In fact, in the recent past in the year,2013, the Apex
Court in Dr.Kumar Saha Vs. Dr.Sukumar Mukherjee in a 
medical negligence case, considered the evidence of the
foreign expert witnesses by internet/video conferencing in
recording of testimonies and cross-examination. 33. It is however depends upon the accuracy of the
proceedings, the appreciation depends. Precautions must 
be taken, both as to the identity of the witnesses and
accuracy of the equipment, used for the purpose. Further,
if it is not under control of Court or Commissioner
appointed as Officer of Court in recording evidence by
internet/video coverage, the other end from where witness
speaks, the result will not be accurate from any lack of
accuracy in evidence. For example, if the witness by
internet/video conference from other end while giving
evidence is tutoring by some other person outside of
coverage spot, it is difficult to find out and such evidence
got no value or lesser value in appreciation, subject to
detection, so also from any audio pre-recorded tutoring to
him with low voice, not traceable from the place of
recording, which are the drawbacks. Such draw backs can 
be curbed and avoided if for the Court internet/video
conference and recording evidence, a separate cloud with
security is developed and adopted through NIC, like the
devices of Dash, Skype etc., instead depending upon such 
social network technological devices. 34. The Apex Court so far as recording of evidence in civil
matters particularly through Advocate-Commissioners 
concerned, suggested way back in the year,2002 by 
interpreting the word mechanical process to include even
audio/video recording. At Para 12 of its expression in
Salem Advocates Bar Association case-I - it was held that
recording evidence in civil cases on commission not only
at hand or typed to dictation, but also and simultaneously
by tape recording/ audio/video recording, so as to obviate
any controversies later between parties while recording
evidence and Or.18 R.4(3) CPC was interpreted for said
conclusion. 35. Further, in its later expression in Salem Advocates Bar
Association case-II - for recording evidence in civil cases
on commission, it was held at para 6, referring to Or.18
R.4(7) CPC of fees is payable by respective parties for
examination of their respective witnesses. 36. Even while recording evidence in civil cases on
commission, Commissioner can and has to observe and 
record the demeanor of witnesses or such other remarks
or objections in the deposition as per order 18 Rule 4(4) & Rule 12 CPC . Further, from the video or internet recording
of evidence and presenting the same in an electronic disk,
the Court also can during arguments by going through the
recorded deposition, note down the demeanor of witness to
the extent required as part of appreciation of evidence. 37. Video recording of proceedings will ensure accuracy of
the record. Further, by preserving (and making available)
matters which are not apparent from the written record,
such as demeanor, voice inflections, body language and
the like, the judges can form a better view of the witness
and that would lead to better appreciation in evidence for
a rationale conclusion. The Judge can also re-examine
later the demeanor of the witness from such video
recording while they give evidence, by replay and can
come to a more accurate conclusion. The Judge can even 
focus on a close-up of the witnesses face in order to better
observe facial expressions. These can be re-run and replay
with ease. The Judge thus can replay for himself if
necessary the recorded proceedings of any hearing from
day one right up to the final arguments, while
appreciating the evidence in deciding the lis. 38. It is needless to say, the marking of any documents by
Commissioner are only for reference sake, since it is the
Court/Tribunal that has to later decide for ultimate
marking, subject to objection if any as per order 18, Rule
4(1) Proviso CPC and Rule 113(7)(g) of Civil Rules of
Practice and circular orders, for short, CRP. The venue for
recording evidence is at the court premises or at the venue
fixed by Court as per the facts of the case or by the
Commissioner with consent of parties, as per Rule
113(6)(b) of CRP. The Commissioner can take any records 
from the Court/Tribunal by filing a memo only on or
before the respective dates of recording evidence and
return immediately after the purpose as it is in original
condition as per Rule 113(8) of CRP. 39. Further in a civil case in Twentieth Century Fox Film
Corp. Vs. NRI Film Production Associates (P) Ltd. - it was
held by the High Court of Karnataka in a matrimonial
matter that, hearing suit and examination of witnesses
and recording of evidence by commissioner are once 
contemplated by Order 18 Rule-4 CPC , the words Witness 
in attendance are to be understood as person being
present and it need not by physical presence. Thus,
recording of evidence through Audio, Video link is
permissible complying with the words, in attendance. It
would be a live communication between the two ends. 
Everything, including the visual would be recorded at both
ends. This would then be available for viewing by the
Court. Also the recording would be at both ends. This also
minimizes and or almost eliminates the possibility of loss
of material recorded. Also if an officer of the Court is
present at the other end i.e. in USA in the same room of
witness, the possibility if his being promoted would be
eliminated. The officer of the Court can also administer
oath. 39(a). There are Safeguards provided therein for the
precautions to be taken in recording such evidence, viz., 1. Before a witness is examined in terms of the Audio-
Video Link, witness is to file an affidavit or an undertaking
duly verified before a notary or a Judge that the person
who is shown as the witness is the same person as who is 
going to depose on the screen. A copy is to be made
available to the other side. (Identification affidavit). 2. The person who examines the witness on the screen is 
also to file an affidavit/undertaking before examining the
witness with a copy to the other side with regard to
identification. 3. The witness has to be examined during working hours
of Indian Courts. Oath is to be administered through the
media. 4. The witness should not plead any inconvenience on
account of time different between India and USA. 5. Before examination of the witness, a set of plaint,
written statement and other documents must be sent to 
the witness so that the witness has acquaintance with the
documents and an acknowledgement is to be filed before 
the Court in this regard. 6. Learned Judge is to record such remarks as is material
regarding the demur of the witness while on the screen. 7. Learned Judge must note the objections raised during
recording of witness and to decide the same at the time of
arguments. 8. After recording the evidence, the same is to be sent to
the witness and his signature is to be obtained in the
presence of a Notary Public and thereafter it forms part of
the record of the suit proceedings. 9. The visual is to be recorded and the record would be at
both ends. The witness also is to be alone at the time of
visual conference and notary is to certificate to this effect. 10. The learned Judge may also impose such other 
conditions as are necessary in a given set of facts. 11. The expenses and the arrangements are to be borne by 
the applicant who wants this facility 40. In the matter of Suvarna Rahul Musale Vs. Rahul
Prabhakar Musale the Bombay High Court allowed the 
plea of the plaintiff to depose using video conference as
the witness was staying in U.K. with her minor children
and was unable to come to India. 41. In kalian Chandra Sarkar V. Rajesh Ranjan @ Pappu 
Yadav it was held that as a general rule in case where the
attendance of accused or witness cannot be procured 
without any amount of delay, expense or inconvenience
the Court could consider by way of video conferencing.
The Apex Court directed the trial of the case in Patna shall
continue without the presence of the appellant- accused
by the court dispensing such presence and to the extent
possible shall be conducted with the aid of video
conferencing. 41(a). In fact it was way back in March, 2003 the
Government of Andhra Pradesh was the first Indian State
to introduce electronic pre-trials (E-pre trials) whereby
criminals alleged is tried in prison using video
conferencing, rather than physically appearing in a Court
of law. By now in the entire country almost all Courts
have the video linkage facility with prisons for video
conferencing of remand extension, enquiry /trial to the
extent necessary and the live. It is easy to use and manage
system allows Judges, legal professionals, Court officials,
inmates and witnesses to seamlessly communicate face to 
face in real time as effectively as if in same room. 42. In Amitabh Bagchi Vs. Ena Bagchi the Culcutta High Court held including with reference to Sections 65A&B of
the Evidence Act as follows: 43. In CBI v. Tuncay Alankus the Apex Court held that,
trial court can direct examination of witnesses by video-
conferencing as per Sections 242 & 243CrPC, however, 
necessary directions should also be given by the court as
to who would bear requisite expenses. 44. Thus recording of evidence by way of video
conferencing can be ordered to be done in cases where the
attendance of the witness cannot be ensured without
delay, expense and inconvenience. It was also held by the
Apex Court that recording of evidence by video
conferencing was a procedure established by law. 45. As technology improved and the size of the equipment
shrunk, experimentation in some American Courts led to
a steady growth in the provision of cameras to make video
recordings of Court proceedings. Today, in America, Video
Recording is common in most Courts. 46. The influence of information technology in human
lives and the storage of information in digital form brought
amendment to the law to include the provisions regarding
the appreciation of digital evidence. In 2000, the Information Technology Act was enacted, which brought in
corresponding amendments to the Indian Evidence Act, 
1872 , Indian Penal Code , 1860 and the Bankers Book 
Evidence Act, Reserve Bank of India Act etc., to make
digital evidence admissible. 47. Section 4 of Information Technology Act says, where
any law provides that information or any other matter
shall be in writing or typewritten or in the printed form,
then notwithstanding anything contained in such law,
such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if
such information or matter is- (a) rendered or made
available in an electronic form; and (b) accessible so as to
be usable for a subsequent reference. 48. In Bodala Murali Krishna vs Smt. Bodala Prathima in
the matrimonial matter, it was held that: 49. The expression of this Court in Dasam Vijay Rama Rao 
V. M.Sai Sri is a step forward which holds that: 50. A Division Bench of this Court in K.Ramesh V. Joint
Secretary, Ministry of Social Justice, New Delhi, in WRIT
APPEAL No.1135 OF 2015; on 15-02-2016 held that- If 
the 3rd respondent incumbent is truly facing any
prosecution before the criminal Court, as alleged, it is the
duty of Respondents 1 and 2 to ensure that the petitioner-
appellant is sanctioned necessary permission to leave
Gangtok and travel to Hyderabad/Secunderabad and 
then, depose before the competent criminal Court. It
would also be equally open to them to allow the Petitioner
appellant to depose on the Internet by participating in
video-conferencing facility, provided such facility is
available at the criminal Court. Otherwise, using Skype
technology also, any such deposition of the petitioner
appellant may be urged to be recorded by the criminal
Court, but however, the necessary permission for the
appellant to leave the Resource Centre, Gangtok for the
said purpose, should be sanctioned. 51. Further, video recording of proceedings will ensure
accuracy of the record. Further, by preserving (and
making available) matters which are not apparent from
the written record, such as demeanors, voice inflections,
body language and the like, the Judges can form a better
view of the witness and that would lead to better
conclusion. The Judge can also re-examine the demeanor 
of the witness while they give evidence, and can come to a
more accurate conclusion. The Judge can even focus on a 
close-up of the witnesses face in order to better observe
facial expressions. These can be re- run and replayed with
ease. The Judge thus can replay for himself if necessary
the recorded proceedings of any hearing from day one
right up to the final arguments, while appreciating the
evidence in deciding the lis. 52. In the recent expression of the Apex Court in Sujoy
Mitra Vs. State of West Bengal , while upholding the order
of the trial Court in the sessions case for the offence under Section 376 IPC, after examination of four witnesses in
permitting recording of evidence of the Prosecutrix, a
citizen of Ireland and resident of Dubbiln, as PW5-through
video conference, provided the following safeguards: I) The
State of West Bengal shall make provision for recording
the testimony of PW5 in the trial Court by seeking the
services of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) for
installing the appropriate equipment for video
conferencing, by using "VC Solution" software, to facilitate
video conferencing in the case. This provision shall be
made by the State of West Bengal in a room to be 
identified by the concerned Sessions Judge, within four
weeks from today. The NIC will ensure, that the
equipment installed in the premises of the trial Court, is
compatible with the video conferencing facilities at the
Indian Embassy in Ireland at Dublin. II) Before recording the statement of the prosecutrix-PW5,
the Embassy shall nominate a responsible officer, in
whose presence the statement is to be recorded. The said
officer shall remain present at all times from the beginning
to the end of each session, of recording of the said
testimony. III) The officer deputed to have the statement
recorded shall also ensure, that there is no other person
besides the concerned witness, in the room, in which the
testimony of PW5 is to be recorded. In case, the witness is
in possession of any material or documents, the same
shall be taken over by the officer concerned in his
personal custody. IV) The statement of witness will then
be recorded. The witness shall be permitted to rely upon
the material and documents in the custody of the officer
concerned, or to tender the same in evidence, only with
the express permission of the trial Court. V) The officer concerned will affirm to the trial Court,
before the commencement of the recording of the
statement, the fact, that no other person is present in the
room where evidence is recorded, and further, that all
material and documents in possession of the prosecutrix-
PW5 (if any) were taken by him in his custody before the
statement was recorded. He shall further affirm to the trial
Court, at the culmination of the testimony, that no other
person had entered the room, during the course of
recording of the statement of the witness, till the
conclusion thereof. The learned counsel for the accused
shall assist the trial Court, to ensure, that the above
procedure is adopted, by placing reliance on the instant
order. VI) The statement of the witness shall be recorded by the
trial Court, in consonance with the provisions of Section
278 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. At the culmination
of the recording of the statement, the same shall be read
out to the witness in the presence of the accused (if in
attendance or to his pleader). If the witness denies the
correctness of any part of the evidence, when the same is
read over to her, the trial Court may make the necessary
correction, or alternatively, may record a memorandum
thereon, to the objection made to the recorded statement
by the witness, and in addition thereto, record his own
remarks, if necessary. VII) The transcript of the statement
of the witness recorded through video conferencing(as
corrected, if necessary), in consonance with the provisions
of Section 278 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, shall be
scanned and dispatched through email to the embassy. At 
the embassy, the witness will authenticate the same in
consonance with law. The aforesaid authenticated
statement shall be endorsed by the officer deputed by the
embassy. It shall be scanned and returned to the trial
Court through email. The statement signed by the witness
at the embassy, shall be retained in its custody in a sealed
cover. VIII) The statement received by the trial Court through
email shall be re-endorsed by the trial Judge. The instant
statement endorsed by the trial Judge, shall constitute the
testimony of the prosecutrix-PW5, for all intents and
purposes. 53. A Division bench of the Delhi High Court, in the very
recent expression, in International Planned Parenthood
Federation (IPPF) vs. Madhu Bala Nath , has observed that
Courts must be liberal and pragmatic in allowing the
witnesses to depose through Video conferencing. Court
should make use of modern technology so as to further
the process of dispensation of justice. Relying upon the
expression of the Apex Court in Dr. Praful B. Desai supra
noting the difference between the concepts of virtual
reality vis--vis video- conferencing that: 54. The Division Bench further observed in ordering the
recording of evidence through video conferencing as
follows: Where a witness or a party requests that the evidence of a
witness may be recorded through video conferencing, the
Court should be liberal in granting such a prayer. There
may be situations where a witness even though within the
city may still want the evidence to be recorded through
video conferencing in order to save time or avoid
inconvenience, the Court should take a pragmatic view. 16. In the present case, the application was premised on
the ground that the witness holds an important position in
her organization and has to travel world over. We do not
feel that such a request was unreasonable. Furthermore,
the appellant/defendant has contended that the
expenditure entailed for travel of the witness, who is a
lady of over 54 years of age and her stay in Delhi would be
a financial burden on the appellant. This, in our view is a
factor that the learned single judge should have taken into
account. We are of the view that the learned Single Judge
erred in dismissing the application. 17. In view of the above, the impugned order is set aside.
The application IA No.7927/2015 is allowed. The
Appellant is permitted to record the testimony and cross-
examination of its witness Ms Rosalind Miller through
audio video conferencing subject to the following
conditions:- as cost of preparation of the certified copies with the
Registry of this Court in the present case within two weeks
from today. The Registry shall thereafter prepare certified
copies of the entire record of the case, which shall be sent
in separate folders clearly marked as order sheets;
pleadings; applications; plaintiff's documents and
defendant's documents. The same shall be forwarded to 
the office of Indian High Commissioner with the assistance
of Ministry of External Affairs. (xvi) This record shall be made available to the officer
nominated by the Indian High Commissioner for the
purpose of undertaking the video conferencing as it would
be necessary for recording the statement and cross
examination of the witness. (xvii) In case, the respondent is desirous of being
physically present in London at the time of recording of
the evidence, it shall be open for her to make
arrangements on her own cost for appearance and her 
representation. The respondent shall ensure that prior
intimation in this regard is filed in the Registry of this
Court giving full particulars of the names of the persons
as well as enclosing documents of authority in respect of
the persons, who shall be representing them in the
proceedings. The intimation in this regard as well as
documents shall also be furnished to Indian High
Commission in London. 55. Having regard to the above, examination of witnesses
and recording of evidence by commissioner contemplated 
by Order XVIII Rule 4 C.P.C from the words Witness in
attendance are to be understood as person being present
and it need not be physical presence thus, recording of
evidence through Audio, Video link or through internet by
Skype or similar technological device is permissible
complying the words in attendance. 56) From the above, coming back to facts, for there is no
foundation to say the request to record evidence through
Skype technology is a device to avoid facing the criminal
case allegedly filed against him and so far as the
apprehensions as to demeanor and possibility of
prompting or tutoring can be taken care of with necessary
precautions, the reconciliation also can be done if need be
by use of Skype technology, there are no grounds to
interfere with the impugned order of the lower Court
permitting the recording of evidence of the party- witness
abroad through Advocate Commissioner and by use of 
Skype technology, but for to give necessary directions of
the precautions required to be taken to ease out the
apprehensions of the other side in giving disposal of the
revision petition. 57. In the result, the revision petition is disposed of with
the following directions for the precautions to be taken for
recording and in the course of recording evidence through
Skype technology. 1. The audio and visual shall be recorded at both the ends
through the Skype technology/audio and video
conferencing that is from Khammam Town of the 
Telangana State, India at the premises of NIC in the
Collectorate, Khammam Town and from the New Jersey of 
USA in the venue to be fixed by the officer to be nominated
for the same Indian High Commissioner. 2. The officer of the Indian High Commission to be
nominated by the Indian High Commissioner from USA in 
the venue to be fixed for said recording shall be paid a
lumpsum amount of Rs. 20,000/- as honorarium by the 
petitioner. 3. The petitioner by virtue of this order approach the
Indian High Commissioner from USA for said purposes 
supra and fix the venue and date for recording the
evidence. 4. The parties are to be permitted in the course of
recording evidence to be represented by legal practitioners
at the premises of NIC in the Collectorate, Khammam 
Town, who can bring mobile device or other gadgets and
make available the Skype facility for the Court/its officer-
the Advocate Commissioner to interact with the
Petitioner/witness staying abroad supra and record the
consent to proceed with the matter of recording evidence
thereafter as expeditiously as possible and only after
taking of oath through media as per the provisions of the Oaths Act,1969 . 5. Before the witness is being examined in terms of the
Skype technology, the witness has to file an affidavit with
an undertaking of not using any pre-recorded versions to
prompt him therefrom or taking any assistance of another
for prompting while giving evidence, got the pleadings and
documents of the case with him to refer if other side
require or Court/Advocate Commissioner permit during
evidence and wont allow any other person during course
of deposition but for the one to operate the phone or other
electronic device/gadgets with internet facility of Skype
technology duly verified before a notary or the officer of
the Indian High Commission to be nominated by the 
Indian High Commissioner from USA that the person who 
is shown as the witness is the same person who is going to
depose on the screen without any prompting. The officer of
the Indian High Commission to be nominated by the 
Indian High Commissioner from USA at the venue of 
recording evidence shall also ensure the above during
course of recording evidence and not to allow any device or
person to prompt the witness. 6. By using the Skype technology, the Petitioner/witness
staying abroad can not only be easily identified by the
Court/its officer- the Advocate Commissioner from the
above, but also be ascertained by enquiring about the
identity with proof with reference to the affidavit of identity
that to be filed supra and can verify the same from
assistance of opposite party or the Counsel or
representative of opposite party present. 7. The witness has to be examined preferably during
working hours of Indian Courts. Oath is to be
administered through the media. 8. The Court/its officer-the Advocate Commissioner is to
record such remarks as is material regarding the demur of
the witness while on the screen and during course of
evidence of the witness, including to note any objections
raised during recording evidence of witness and to decide
the same later. 9. After recording the evidence, the witness has to state
that the contents are true and he authorises his
representative or Advocate on his behalf to sign on the
deposition and he is not going to dispute its correctness or
authenticity at any time later to make it forms part of the
record of the proceedings. Besides that he shall retrieve
copy of deposition from other end recording device and
sign and submit to the trial Court later through his
counsel. 10. The Court/its officer-the Advocate Commissioner may
also impose such other conditions as are necessary in a
given set of facts and circumstances. 11. For any further difficulty, the Advocate Commissioner
and the parties may approach the trial Court. 12. The trial Court shall fix the final fees of the Advocate
Commissioner after filing of report on completion of
recording of evidence and for that purpose, the petitioner
shall deposit tentatively before the trial Court Rs.10,000/-
to refund whatever remained or to pay further as the case
may be There shall be no order as to costs. Pending
miscellaneous petitions, if any, shall stand closed. (o). No doubt, language, like other things human, is
imperfect and how great so ever be the precision with which it is
chosen, however superior be the skill of the draftsman, the
language of every code needs to be supplemented by the 
knowledge just described, and the mind of the reader to be
trained by this study thereof. This statutory interpretation has no
conventional protocol. The object, intention and purpose of a
legislation assumes greater relevance if the language is obscure
and ambiguous as held in Shri Sarwan Singh vs. Shri Kasturi . In Shyam Kishori Devi Vs. the Patna Municipal Corporation -
it was held that the well known rule of construction is to make
the section or law workable (i.e. Purposive interpretation). The
general rule of construction is not only to look at the words but
also to look at the context, the connection and the object of such
words relating to such matter and interpret the meaning
according to what would appear to be the meaning that is
intended to be conveyed by use of the words under the
circumstances as held in Jagat Singh Vs. State of Bihar . (p) Therefore even Section 1 Evidence Act excludes
application of evidence Act to affidavits when once statement of
facts in the affidavit of a deponent taken by Court as evidence in
chief-examination as per Order 18 Rule 4 CPC , the bar of Section
1 Evidence Act is no way coming in the way and thereafter there
is no any provision in the Evidence Act from Sections 3 to 167 either prohibiting or inconsistent with the concept contained in
Orders 18, 16 & 26 CPC . Thus the Court is empowered to apply 
the provisions contained in Sections 3 to 167 Evidence Act to the
affidavit evidence covered by Orders 18, 16 & 26 CPC . 9. Now from this point in view, coming to Sec.1 Evidence
Act and Order 18 Rules 4,5,13 &19 CPC : (d). Needless to say there can be only one affidavit in chief
examination of each witness in the case and allowing of number
of affidavits in chief examination of one in continuation to the
other will not arise for it defeats the very object of introducing the
provision of taking affidavit as chief examination and also for the
wording of affidavit and not affidavits, apart from the fact that
after taking the affidavit on oath as chief examination and
marking of documents by the Court or by the Court
Commissioner subject to order and approval of court so for as the
documents marking concerned, either of them can record any 
further chief examination of the witness and the same also lends
support from the Apex Courts expression in the Salem Advocates 
Bar Association Case-1 supra of the Court can direct to file
affidavit or can give option to the witness summoned either to file
affidavit or to be present in Court for his examination and the
Court can even record evidence in part and direct Court
commissioner to record in part. 10. Study of similar provisions in CPC , CrPC , respective
Rules of practice and other provisions, with reference to decided
cases: State of Rajasthan Vs. M/s. Sindhi Film Exchange ; Ali Bin
Aifan Vs. State , Nadella Estates Pvt. Ltd. Hyderabad v.
Prema Ravindranath - it was held that affidavits are not
included in the definition of Evidence u/s. 3 Evidence Act.
Affidavits can no doubt be used as evidence only if for sufficient
reason Court passes an order from the above expressions. From 
Gampa Sai Ravi Kiran vs. Bonda Rama Lakshmi , Nadella 
Estates supra, Ali Bin Aifan supra, cross examination of a
deponent is not as a matter of right in interlocutory applications. In Shetty Chandra Shekar v. Neeti Ramulu it was held that
such right is available in case of third party deponent and not for
party deponent. In Pathange Mohan Krishna Rao vs. Smt 
Navale Sreevani it was held some of the above expressions did
not refer definition of evidence speaks of witness in Section 3 Evidence Act and thereby perincuriam. In fact Section 3 Evidence
Act defines "evidence" of which oral evidence is to mean and
include all statements which the Court permits or requires to be
made before it by witnesses, in relation to matters of fact under
inquiry. The word witness arises during trial for giving evidence
and not in interlocutory applications and the affidavit of deponent
used in Order 19 CPC speaks for interlocutory as well as during
trial by drawing distinction between Rule 1 to Rule 2 of the Order
19 and what is held in Nadella supra is that there is no such
distinction between party deponent and third party deponent to
draw any distinction between the two in Shetty Chandra Shekar supra. (b). In fact in Nadella Estates supra, mainly relying upon
the well considered earlier expression of this court in Gaddipati
Sambrajyam Vs Panguluri Mahalakshmamma which followed 
the expression of the Karnataka High Court in B.R.Vishwanath
Singh Vs. Shivalingaiah and of this Court in Sakalabhaktula
Vykunta Rao Vs. Made Appala Swamy very clearly laid down 
the distinction between Order 19 Rule 1 & 2, that the reading of
the judgments with reference to Order 19 Rules 1 to 3 clearly
indicates that an affidavit by itself is no evidence since it is not
included in Section 3 Evidence Act and specifically excluded by Section 1 Evidence Act. Thus it may not be correct in Pathange supra to say Nadella supra did not consider Section 3 Evidence
Act. (c) In M/s. Parekh Bros. Vs. Kartick C.S. relying on Kamakshya P. Dalal Vs. Emperor ; Marneedi Satayam Vs. 
Masimukkula Venkataswami ; Dominion of India Vs. 
Rupchand and M/s. Sham sunder Rajkumar firm suprait 
was held that an affidavit per-se does not become evidence in the
suits but it can become evidence only by consent of the parties or
where it is specifically authorized by a particular provision of law
(through a particular procedure). Once such is the case by virtue
of Order 18 CPC and Section 3 Evidence Act, affidavit filed in a
suit by a deponent (either party or third party with no distinction
can be taken) as chief examination of said deponent-witness on
oath as also observed in Salem Bar Association case-1 supra. (d). In Munir Ahmad and others Vs. State of Rajasthan it was held in a Criminal Case on admissibility of affidavit of
defence-witness that Section 3 Evidence Act contemplates oral
and documentary evidence. In case of living persons, evidence in
judicial proceedings must be tendered by calling the witness to
witness box and cannot be substituted by affidavit, (i) unless law
permits it or (ii) the Court by order expressly allows it. (The apex
Court recognized here power of the Court to take an affidavit of a
deponent as evidence of said witness in the suit in question). 11. From the above now specifically to consider scope of
Order 19 Rules 1 to 3 & the AP Civil Rules of Practice and Circular
orders -ChapterIV: (b). The proof used in Order 19 Rule 1 is in the sense to
mean final proof and not prima-facie proof. Whenever any fact or
facts permitted by Court to be proved by means of an affidavit of a
witness of a party, if the opposite party desires presence of
deponent to cross examine, the Court should not accept the
affidavit as evidence under Order 19 Rule 1 CPC as per its proviso
as laid down in Nadella and Gaddipati Sambrajyam supra. (c). As per Order 19 Rule 2 for proof prima-facie (and not
final proof on merits) upon application of party to give evidence by
affidavit filed in Court, when the Court not using the affidavit as
evidence, the party may produce the deponent for cross
examination by opposite party or the Court can, call the
deponents presence for cross examination by opposite party at
the instance of either party. (d). If we read in this contest the Order 19 Rule 3 for the
above distinction between Order 19 Rule 1 and Order 19 Rule 2,
it makes the scope further clear, since as per Order 19 Rule 3,
the scope of facts that can be confined in the affidavit of a
deponent are for final proof, such facts to state which the
deponent is able to prove from his personal knowledge and for
prima-facie proof in interlocutory applications the statements of
the deponents belief are also admissible provided the grounds
thereof are stated. (e). In the AP Civil Rules of Practice and Circular Orders,
the Rules 34 to 52 (Chapter IV) deal with affidavits for use in
judicial proceedings to read in support of an application so also
counter affidavits in reply to affidavit contents and the Court got
the power to direct the deponents for cross examination. Here
also it did not lay any distinction between party deponent and
third party deponent. (f). In Gian Chand vs. Tirath Ram Gupta it was held by
the Punjab High Court that the ordinary rule is that, a decision
on facts of a case must be decided on evidence recorded viva-voce
in Court as provided by Order 18 CPC . This procedure can be
dispensed with where either party agree or any law permits or the
Court makes an order to decide the case on affidavits evidence
with opportunity to opposite parties for cross examination. In this
contest please read K V Subba Rao vs. The State . (g). From this legal position, the areas law permits evidence
by affidavit for proof which may either for final proof or prima
facie proof as the case may be are (i). Section 295 CrPC permits
evidence by affidavit in proof of conduct of a public servant; (ii). Section 296 CrPC (old Sec.510A) permits evidence of formal
character by affidavit-See also the Apex Courts expression in this
regard in Nirmaljit Singh vs. State of WB . (h). Further, Section 16 of the Family Courts Act permits
evidence of formal character to prove by affidavit. (i). Section 30(c) CPC says Court may order any fact to be
proved by affidavit. This provision infact applies to affidavit
reception in interlocutory applications for deciding on merits
visvis in suits or other original applications during trial from its
reading with Order19 Rules 1 to 3 CPC . (j). Order 19 Rules 1 to 3 CPC as detailed above say that
any Court may at any time order that a particular fact or facts
may be proved by affidavit or that the affidavit of any witness may
be read at the hearing on such condition as the Court thinks
reasonable, (k). Sections32 & 33 Evidence Act also speak on
admissibility with evidentiary value as relevant even statement of
a living person under certain contingencies viz., who cannot be
found, who has become incapable of giving evidence or whose
evidence cannot be procured without an amount of unreasonable 
delay or expense. (l). In Kalyan-PeoplesCo-op.Bank Vs. Dulhan Bibi A A
Patil -it was held that deposition of a person in a previous
proceeding is admissible in evidence in a subsequent judicial
proceeding by consent of the parties. Infact like any previous
statement it can be used for contradiction or to impeach the
credit of the witness as per Sections 145 and 155(3) Evidence Act,
if not for corroboration as per Section 157 Evidence Act. (m). M/s. Mangilal Rungta vs. Manganese Ore (India)
Ltd - it was held that proof of facts of whole suit, irrespective of
nature of the suit, by affidavit under Order 19 Rule 1 & 2 CPC , is
permissible and can not be said as impermissible and holding
otherwise would be too unrealistic and too technical a view, of the
law of procedure resulting in to great waste of public time and
money and would through unnecessary burden on our already 
over burdened legal machinery. 12. The above provisions and propositions to a
considerable extent are exceptions to the general rule in Section 1 Evidence Act that Evidence Act does not extend to affidavits.
These provisions require order of the Court permitting (i) any
party to prove any facts by affidavit. Unless such an order is
passed to take the affidavit contents as evidence, (subject to cross
examination if any), any affidavit contents by itself is not evidence
in chief examination in suits and original petitions, but for to
consider proof of any facts in interlocutory applications. In C.S.
Rowjee vs. State of Andhra Pradesh it was held by the Apex
Court that facts in the affidavit uncontroverted by opposite party
can be deemed as admitted to rely. 13. Thus affidavit by itself not covered by Evidence Act applicability to treat the statements there in as evidence even
from the combined reading of Sections 1 & 3 Evidence Act,
however once the Court accepts and takes it, it is evidence in
chief examination subject to opportunity for cross examination of
the deponent by the opposite party having such right if desires in
the suits and original petitions, but for to permit or not permit for
cross examination to consider proof of any facts stated by the
deponent in an interlocutory application. When such is the case,
to the evidence affidavit taken as chief examination of party or
witness by way of oral evidence defined in Section 3 Evidence Act,
all the provisions of the Evidence Act from Sections 3 to 167 and
incidence of evidence are applicable including the provisions of
Chapter X covered by Sections 135 to 166 Evidence Act for
appreciation of evidence as to admissibility, competency &
credibility of a witness with reference to relevancy including from
other provisions particularly from Sections 5 to 60 Evidence Act,
of whose affidavit is accepted and taken as Chief examination by
Court permitting for cross examination, since no statement of a
witness can be affective and substantive evidence to be used in
appreciation of evidence under Section 3 Evidence Act unless and
until opportunity to opposite party to sublimate and refine it by
test of cross examination if the opposite party desires as per Section 138 Evidence Act. 14. The recording of evidence as per Evidence Act , more
particularly from Section137 , during trial consists of a) Chief
examination of a witness by the party who called {either being
taken by affidavit or being recorded by Court directly or through
Court Commissioner as per Order 18 Rules 4,5 &19 r/w. Order 
26 Rules 4 & 4A CPC and Sections 135 , 137 & 138 Evidence Act}, b) Cross-examination by the opposite party {being recorded by
Court directly or through Court Commissioner as per Order 18
Rules 4,5 &19 Order 26 Rules 4 & 4A CPC and Section 135 , 137- 139 Evidence Act}, which is the safeguard for testing the value of
the human statements in chief examination of a witness, more
particularly under Section 136 Evidence Act, and (c) re-
examination to clarify and explain any ambiguity in evidence or to
bring a new matter with permission of Court subject to right of
opposite party to further cross-examine that witness, under Section 138 Evidence Act. 15. It is from this concept in mind if we read Order 18 CPC which deals with the subject of, hearing of the suits and
examination of witnesses, the order 18 Rules 4,13&19 Amended CPC are no way inconsistent to the provisions of Sections 1 or 3-
167 of Evidence Act . 16. Needless to say from the above that, without guidance
from the provisions of Sections 3 to 167 of the Evidence Act
regarding (a) admissibility (b) relevancy, (c) probability (d)
competency and (e) credibility of a witness and proof and
probative value of a document including on its relevancy,
admissibility etc., it is difficult to appreciate the evidence on
record brought in chief examination by affidavit taken on oath
and or recorded further by court or court commissioner including
recording of cross examination and re examination and marking
of documents also if any of subject to objection as to proof,
relevancy and admissibility, other than as to stamp duty and
registration; leave about any marking of document as secondary
evidence if no objection raised as to primary evidence on
procedural aspect of deemed waived and is as good as original as
held in RVEV.Gounder vs.AVVP.Temple which was later relied 
in Dayamathi bai vs K.M Shaffi . 17. The next aspect that arises to resolve the practical
difficulty is on the contents of the affidavit of a witness filed for
taking it by Court as chief examination if contains irrelevant and
inadmissible portions and if objected by otherside, how to deal
with concerned: 18. The next aspect that arises to consider from the rival
claims is on the powers and limitations of the Courts to appoint
advocate commissioner to record evidence of witnesses, either
party witnesses or third party witnesses as the case may be and
in what type of cases: 19. The Apex Court in Salem Advocates Bar Association,
Tamilnadu Vs. Union of India (for short Salem Bar Association
case-II) regarding the advocate commissioners appointment by
Court to record evidence of witnesses and fees payable by the
parties observed referring to the 3 reports of Justice Jagannadha
Rao Committee appointed by the Apex court from the judgment in 
Salem Bar Association case-I that: To examine the contention, it is also necessary to keep in
view Order XVIII Rule 19 which was inserted by
Amendment Act of 1999. It reads as under: The aforesaid provision contains a non-obstante clause. It
overrides Order XVIII Rule 5 which provides the court to
record evidence in all appealable cases. The Court is,
therefore, empowered to appoint a Commissioner for
recording of evidence in appealable cases as well. Further,
Order XXVI Rule 4-A inserted by Amendment Act of 1999 
provides that notwithstanding anything contained in the
Rules, any court may in the interest of justice or for the
expeditious disposal of the case or for any other reason,
issue Commission in any suit for the examination of any
person resident within the local limits of the court's
jurisdiction. Order XVIII Rule 19 and Order XXVI Rule 4-
A, in our view, would override Order XVIII Rule 5(a) and (b). There is, thus, no conflict. The next question that has
been raised is about the power of the Commissioner to
declare a witness hostile. Order XVIII Rule 4(4) requires
that any objection raised during the recording of evidence
before the Commissioner shall be recorded by him and 
decided by the Court at the stage of arguments. Order
XVIII Rule 4(8) stipulates that the provisions of Rules 16,
16-A, 17 and 18 of Order XXVI, in so far as they are
applicable, shall apply to the issue, execution and return
of such commission thereunder. The discretion to declare
a witness hostile has not been conferred on the
Commissioner. Under Section 154 of the Evidence Act, it
is the Court which has to grant permission, in its
discretion, to a person who calls a witness, to put any
question to that witness which might be put in cross-
examination by the adverse party. The powers delegated to
the Commissioner under Order XXVI Rules 16, 16-A, 17 
and 18 do not include the discretion that is vested in
Court under Section 154 of the Evidence Act to declare a
witness hostile. If a situation as to declaring a witness hostile arises before
Commission recording evidence, the concerned party shall
have to obtain permission from the Court under Section
154 of the Evidence Act and it is only after grant of such
permission that the Commissioner can allow a party to
cross-examine his own witness. Having regard to the facts
of the case, the Court may either grant such permission or
even consider to withdraw the commission so as to itself
record remaining evidence or impose heavy costs if it finds
that permission was sought to delay the progress of the
suit or harass the opposite party. Another aspect is about
proper care to be taken by the Commission of the original
documents. Undoubtedly, the Commission has to take 
proper care of the original documents handed over to him
either by Court or filed before him during recording of
evidence. In this regard, the High Courts may frame
necessary rules, regulations or issue practice directions so
as to ensure safe and proper custody of the documents
when the same are before the Commissioner. It is the duty
and obligation of the Commissioners to keep the
documents in safe custody and also not to give access of
the record to one party in absence of the opposite party or
his counsel. The Commissioners can be required to 
redeposit the documents with the Court in case long
adjournments are granted and for taking back the
documents before the adjourned date. 20. Thus this judgment left no stone unturned in answering
the recording of evidence before the Commissioner of filing of a
chief affidavit or even to direct to record evidence in chief and
cross by commissioner and it makes no difference including in
appealable cases and the fees is to borne by the parties as
directed by the Court and also taken care of demeanour
observation, marking of documents, permitting cross examination
of own witness etc., and in what case Court exercise the
discretion to appoint commissioner suo-mottu and in what case
to record the evidence by Court itself. 21. In D. Chandrakala Vs. SMS Sangam , this Court
observed that in complex cases like suit for declaration of title
based on will where execution of will in dispute and cases where
expert gave opinion on disputed signatures etc., Court can record
evidence declining request to appoint commissioner; however,
commissioners appointment to record evidence of scribe or
attestors or expert witness can be considered, leave about no
impediment to the Court to summon a witness sought to be 
examined on commission. 22. In T.Srinivasa Rao Vs. T.V. Rangaiah , this Court
observed that examination of witness by commission is not as a
matter of course and recourse would depend upon the pressure of
work in the Court and condition of witness since each and every
step in the adjudicatory process has its own impact on the
ultimate outcome and credibility of entire system. 23. In Qamar Begum Vs. Habeebunnisa , this Court
observed that appointment of a commissioner to record evidence
of a witness is not as a matter of course as held in Srinivasa Rao supra for Courts participation in recording evidence is necessary
in complicated cases. 24. In Vemunandana Ramakrishnam Raju Vs. Darla 
Srinivas , this Court observed that the casual appointment of a
commissioner to record evidence without assigning reasons is not
proper. 25. From the above, as there is no hard and fast rule of in
which case commissioner to be appointed and in which it is not,
by the Court of its own without even application, but for what are
the illustrative matters referred by the Apex Court in Salem Bar
Association case II in 2005, it is in complicated factual matters
involved Court generally record evidence at least of main
witnesses and appoint advocate commissioner to record evidence 
of other witnesses more particularly from pressure of work and
work load with huge pendency in almost all courts and therefrom
coming to the facts, merely because the defendants dispute the
suit sale agreement as forged and fabricated one and did not
execute and did not enter sale agreement, by itself it cannot be
said the suit involves complicated questions of fact for only to
record by Court the evidence even after the party witness PW.1 in
cross examination. Thus the appointment of a commissioner by 
Court of its own by virtue of the enabling provision under Order
XVIII Rule 19 r/w Rules 4 & 5 and Order XXVI Rules 4 & 4A CPC cannot be find fault including from the guidelines in the
expression of Salem Bar Association case II. Thus, the revision
deserves dismissal for the impugned order no way requires
interference. 26. For sake of convenience to adopt to the extent possible
a model of Commission warrant is enclosed herewith.
IN THE COURT OF ---------- Present: Sri -----------. Dated, this the --- day of ---, 2018
OS/AS/OP/OA---/2018 
Between: Given under my hand and the seal of this Court, this the --day -- ---, 2018. ------Judge
 
 The following precautions are required to be observed by you in
recording of evidence: The endorsement by you must be on the affidavit, docket sheet to
the above extent of the compliance as follows: Taken the affidavit of the
deponent as Chief Examination of PW/ DW as per the direction of the
Court in the Commission warrant and on oath and on admission that 
the contents are true and as per his/ her say and it bears the
deponents signature. You must sign underneath the endorsement after taking the
signature of the deponent. 2. For recording cross-examination, on a separate sheet, you
must exercise the oath of the witness by endorsement that Witness
resumed on oath today dt.-----. For cross examination, on the chief
examination affidavit already taken. Cross examination: . 3. At the end of the cross examination, you must take signature
of the witness and endorse that the contents are read over and
explained to the witness and admitted as true, then you must sign in
proof of the compliance. As per amended civil orders of practice (G.O.Rt.1795 dt.20-10- 04)
 113 New Rule Evidence 113 (3) whenever the Court 
considers necessary appoint commissioner from panel by rotation (4)
If counsel from panel not available Court for reasons to be recorded 
appoint any Advocate or retired Judicial Officer as counsel. (5) The
panel of counsel Advocates must have sufficient experience &
practicing in Courts & retired Judicial Officers. 27. Accordingly and in the result, the Civil Revision Petition
is dismissed. No costs. Consequently, miscellaneous petitions, if any shall stand
closed. No costs. _____________________________________ 
JUSTICE Dr. B.SIVA SANKARA RAO 
Date: 31.01.2018