1. By this appeal, the judgment and order dated 16/09/2008 passed by
the learned Assistant Sessions Judge-7, Pune in Session Case No.560 of
2005 is challenged. By the said Judgment and Order, the accused were
acquitted of offences punishable under section 498-A, 306 read with Section
34 of Indian Penal Code (for short " IPC "). 2. The prosecution case as revealed from the record is as under : (v) It is further case of the prosecution that during the course of treatment
deceased expired on 22/06/2005 and after her funeral, her father - Popatlal
Gujar i.e. P.W. 1 lodged FIR (Exhibit-14) with Sahakar Nagar police
station, Pune and, accordingly, offence under section 498-A , 306 read with
34 of IPC was registered against accused vide C.R.No.530 of 2005. 3. During the course of investigation, the police recorded statements of
various persons. The police authorities drew spot panchnama (Exhibit-48)
and seized bottle of poison vide seizure panchnama (Exhibit-49). The
accused were arrested on 27/06/2005. As offence under section 306 of IPC
was exclusively triable by the Court of Sessions, the matter was committed
to the Sessions Court by order dated 18/10/2005 passed by the Learned
J.M.F.C., Court No.8, Pune, and registered as Sessions Case No.560/2005. 4. The charge under sections 498-A , 306 read with section 34 of IPC
was framed against accused on 30/11/2005. The accused did not plead
guilty and claimed to be tried. 5. During trial, the prosecution examined eight witnesses. The relatives
of the deceased examined as witnesses are P.W. 1 - Popatlal Ramchandra
Gujar, father of deceased, P.W.2 - Bandulal Gujar, Uncle of the deceased,
P.W.3 - Abhijit Bandulal Gujar, cousin of deceased and P.W.8 - Manisha
Rajesh Shah, Maternal Aunt of deceased. The prosecution also examined as
P.W.4 - Dr.Upendra Mohol, who conducted post-mortem of deceased and
P.W.5 - Dr.Naripalli P.Rao, doctor who treated the deceased. The
 hcs 5/24 app345.2009.doc
prosecution examined P.W.6 - Dnyandev Maruti Sathe, who is the
Investigating Officer and P.W.7 - Sanjeev Ramchandra Patil, P.S.I., who
recorded the FIR. Thereafter, the statement of accused under section 313 of
Code of Criminal Procedure was recorded on 05/06/2008. 6. The accused did not examine themselves, however, they examined
four witnesses in their defence. D.W.1 - Dr.Himani Tapasvi, who conducted
sonography. D.W.2 - Sagar Bansod, Manager of Chowgule Industries Pvt.
Ltd. to show that accused no.1 purchased Maruti Omni car by taking loan
from State Bank of India, D.W. 3 - Kirti Raka, who is neighbour of the
accused and staying in same building where the deceased was staying with
the accused and where the incident took place. D.W.4 - Soma Abaji Ide,
who collected certificate from Rao Nursing Home to the effect that deceased
was not in position to speak. 7. The prosecution apart from the oral evidence, relied on documents
such as, Postmortem report (Exh.34), telephone bill (Exh.32), Medical
certificate issued by Rao Nursing Home (Exh. 36 & 37), Medical case
papers in respect of treatment of the deceased (Exh.38) as well as certificates
(Exh. 39, 40, 41, 42), Spot Panchnama (Exh. 48), Seizure Panchanama
(Exh. 49), communication dt. 13/07/2005 in respect of sending the samples
for Chemical Analysis (Exh. 50), (Exh.51), Chemical Analysis Report
(Exh.52) respectively. 8. The accused also placed reliance on certain documents such as., Ultra
Sound Sonography Report (Exh. 72), Receipts (Exh. 74, 75, 76), Certificate
dt. 26/06/2008 (Exh. 77), Certified Copy of order of Family Court (Exh. 109) and 30 documents along with list (Exh. 69). The accused also produced
album of photographs at Exhibit-17 containing 36 photographs.
 hcs 6/24 app345.2009.doc 9. As set out hereinabove, learned Assistant Sessions Judge, Pune after
considering the evidence on record, acquitted all the accused of the offence
punishable under section 498-A , 306 read with section 34 of IPC. The State
of Maharashtra has filed leave application to file an appeal and, accordingly,
by the order dated 16/09/2008, this Court granted leave and admitted the
appeal. 10. I have heard Mrs.Anamika Malhotra, learned APP for the State and
Mr.Nitin P. Deshpande, learned Advocate for Respondent Nos.1 to 3. 11. Mrs.Anamika Malhotra, learned APP submitted that evidence on
record clearly shows that the deceased was harassed and tortured by the
accused and as a result of the same she tried to commit suicide by
consuming poison on 15/06/2005 and she expired on 22/06/2005.
According to her submission the learned Trial Court has failed to consider
the evidence on record in proper perspective. She submitted that in the facts
and circumstances of the case, the appeal be allowed and accused be held
guilty and they be directed to undergo appropriate sentences. 12. Mr.Nitin Deshpande, learned Advocate appearing for the Respondents
submitted that evidence of the prosecution witnesses is totally unreliable as
there are several improvements and there is considerable delay in lodging
the FIR. He submitted that evidence on record clearly demolishes the case
of the prosecution of harassment and torture. He submitted that the
photographs on record at Exhibit-17 (photo album) clearly show that the
deceased was properly treated and her relationship with all accused were
cordial. He submitted that the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the
 hcs 7/24 app345.2009.doc
case of demand of money as well as the case of mental and physical
harassment of deceased. He, therefore, supported the impugned order. He
has filed written submissions as well as filed compilation of judgments,
particularly regarding power of the Appellate Court dealing with Appeal
against acquittal and also on the aspect that for establishing offence under section 306 mere proof of cruelty and suicide is not enough but there must
be nexus between the two, as also on the aspect of material improvements
by the prosecution witness make their evidence unreliable. I will consider
the necessary authorities as and when occasion arises, if required. 13. Before considering the rival submissions and evidence on record, as
also the impugned judgment and order it is necessary to note the general
principles to be followed by the Appellate Court while dealing with the
appeal against acquittal. The said principle have been succinctly culled out
in the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case between Chandrappa vs. State of Karnataka reported in 2007 (4) SCC 415. The
Hon'ble Supreme Court laid down the following general principles in
paragraph 42 regarding powers of the Appellate court while dealing with an
appeal against order of acquittal : 14. In the light of above principles regarding powers of the Appellate
Court, I will examine the evidence on record. 15. The evidence of PW 1 Popatlal Gujar, father of the deceased, shows
that initially for a period of one year after marriage everything was all right.
Thereafter the Deceased used to tell her parents on phone from time to time
that accused were saying that in marriage appropriate gifts were not offered
 hcs 9/24 app345.2009.doc
and their guests were not properly honoured and were taunting her and ill
treating her. He deposed that they used to persuade her to tolerate the said
behaviour of the accused and also used to tell her that in future after some
days, after she delivers a child, everything would be all right. He further
stated that thereafter deceased told him that there was no improvement in
behalviour of accused and during pregnancy the deceased was subjected to
physical and mental torture and therefore since 7th month of pregnancy she
was advised bed rest by the doctor. 16. He deposed that on 23/06/2004, there was marriage of his nephew -
Abhijit and although they had invited all the accused, only accused no.1
and deceased attended the marriage. At that time when his niece enquired
about her married life, the deceased started crying and told her that she was
subjected to the ill treatment and that she was fed up with the ill treatment.
P.W.1 further deposed that in the said marriage, the gifts were given to
accused no.1 and also to accused nos.2 and 3 although they had not
attended the marriage. Thereafter after four days, the deceased called them
and told that gifts given in the marriage of Abhijit were not liked by accused
and on that count they were scolding, taunting and ill treating her. The
Accused also were taunting her on the ground that proper invitation was not
given to their close relatives. Therefore, his elder brother - P.W.2 and son
Avinash went to the house of accused at Pune. After P.W.2 brother of P.W.1
returned to Nipani, he informed P.W.1 that father in law of the deceased
threw on the ground all articles of gifts and told that those articles were not
liked by them and he made demand of Rs.10,000/- and as P.W.2 was not
having that much amount, he paid Rs.5,000/- and returned. 17. He further narrated that in or about January 2005, there was Vastu
Shanti function at the house of his brother in law and invitation card was
 hcs 10/24 app345.2009.doc
sent to accused, however, neither Swapnali nor accused attended the said
function. P.W.1 stated that when they made enquiry on phone about their
absence, the deceased told that only invitation card was sent and personal
invitation was not given and, therefore, there was quarrel. 18. P.W.1 further deposed that after four days, the deceased again called
and told that accused intended to purchase car and was demanding
Rs.1,00,000/- and ill treatment had increased. P.W.1 deposed that he and his
brother arranged for Rs.25,000/- and came to Pune and gave the same to
accused. He stated that thereafter in March 2005, accused purchased the car. 19. P.W.1 deposed that taunting and ill treatment continued for the reason
that less amount was paid. He deposed that on 14/06/2005 at about 9.30 to
10 am he received phone call from accused no.1 and the same was
answered by his wife. At that time accused no.1 was talking loudly on
phone and was complaining against deceased that she was not working
properly, was not looking after monetary affairs, that Fixed Deposits were
matured but were not renewed by her and she is not attentive to work. He
deposed that at that time his wife was asking accused no.1 that she wanted
to speak with deceased but accused no.1 disconnected the phone. P.W.1
further stated that on the next day on or about 15/06/2005 at about 12 to
12.15 noon accused no.1 made phone call and the same was answered by
his brother, when accused no.1 told that the deceased had consumed
poisonous medicine and is admitted at Rao Nursing Home at Bibvewadi.
P.W.1 further stated that he himself, his brother and his wife came to Pune
and rushed to hospital at about 5 pm. She was admitted in ICU. In the
hospital, his signature was obtained on some medical papers as accused
no.1 informed them that treatment of deceased was going on but her
condition was serious and in case anything happens to her, the doctor
 hcs 11/24 app345.2009.doc
would not be held responsible. The said writing is at Exhibit-27.
Mr.Deshpande, learned Advocate of the Respondents has relied on said
Exhibit-27 very heavily to submit that the FIR lodged is after thought. I will
deal with his submission regarding Exhibit-27 later on. 20. The deceased was in the hospital from 15/06/2005 to 22/06/2005.
P.W.1 has stated that she was not talking during said period and there was
mask on her face, however, by hand gesture she was trying to tell them that
accused had ill treated her and, therefore, she had consumed poison. This
part of evidence was attacked by the learned Advocate of the Respondent on
the ground that the evidence establishes that the hands of the deceased were
tied to the knot. However, there is nothing to indicate that inspite of this
position she could not have made gestures by hand. Apart from that there is
other evidence of the harassment and torture to which the deceased was
subjected to and she had told P.W.5 - Doctor that she consumed poison as
she was fed up with life. He deposed that on 22/06/2005 the deceased
expired and thereafter immediately he lodged FIR which is at Exhibit-14.
He further deposed that when the deceased was in hospital, police were
asking them whether they wanted to make any complaint and at that time he
told them that their daughter was serious and after she regains
consciousness, they would make enquiries with her and then decide. 21. P.W.1 was extensively cross examined by the defence. In the cross
examination P.W.1 had stated that accused had given four gold bangles, two
flat bangles, gold chain, necklace and ganthan to his daughter in marriage.
In the cross examination much emphasis was given to portion marked
Exhibit "A" in the FIR at Exhibit-14 wherein P.W.1 has stated that
deceased had co-habited happily at matrimonial house for about 1 ½ years.
P.W.1 has stated in the cross examination that prior to eight days of delivery
 hcs 12/24 app345.2009.doc
and thereafter also for eight days his wife stayed with the deceased and she
stayed in the hospital and at the house of accused. During cross examination
Exhibit-17 an album containing 36 photographs of deceased - Swapnali, her
husband, P.W.1 and family members of accused no.1 were shown to him.
He has admitted that the said photographs show marriage anniversary
programme of the Deceased which was attended by P.W.1, his wife etc.
P.W.1 further admitted that after delivery of daughter, accused came to their
house and attended function of grand-daughter and they had given gold ring,
gold chain and clothes to their grand daughter. 22. P.W.1 accepted in the cross examination that accused is conducting
business for more than 25 years and they are having three servants. He
admitted that financial condition of the accused is sound. The said cross
examination revealed that accused no.1 had kept total amount of
Rs.26,000/- in fixed deposit in the name of deceased during the period from
23/11/2001 to 10/01/2005. It is further revealed that Accused No.1 obtained
mediclaim policies for himself and deceased from 1/11/2001 to 2005. It is
further revealed that during the period from 26/5/1999 to 15/06/2005
accused had deposited Rs.1,000/- per month in his PPF account and that on
15/06/2005 the balance in said account was Rs.98,000/-. The total amount
upto 7/05/2005 in the PPF Account of the Accused No.2 was Rs.98,400/-. 23. It was also brought on record during cross examination of P.W.1 that
in the year 2003, 2004 and 2005, accused no.1 along with deceased and
daughter - Kashmira went for trip at Ahmedabad and Rajasthan,
Mahableshwar and Goa respectively. It was also brought on record that on
the birthday of Deceased on 6/05/2003 the accused had given party in
Durvankur Hotel at Pune and P.W.1 and his wife had attended the same. It
is also brought on record that on 16/05/2004 the birthday of grand daughter
 hcs 13/24 app345.2009.doc
of P.W.1 was celebrated and he along with his wife attended the same. The
photograph in that behalf was produced at Exhibit-31. It is also brought on
record that nephew of P.W.1, namely, Abhijit and other nephew were called
at the house of accused on occasion of marriage of Abhijeet, and all of them
were seen taking lunch together and photograph in that behalf is produced at
Sr.No.35 and 36 of photo album at Exhibit-17. 24. Thereafter, the P.W.1 was cross examined with respect to various
instances of harassment including at the time of marriage of Abhijit and
gifts given in that marriage, the demand of money for purchase of car etc.
P.W.1 denied that he told Dr.Rao that he did not want to lodge any police
complaint. He had further stated that accused no.1 filed an application for
custody of his grand daughter. He denied that the deceased was of reserve
nature and short temper and intended to reside separately with her husband
and daughter. He stated in the cross examination that all facts were told to
the police but police informed them that they would be recording the
complaint in short and all the details should be told to the Court. 25. The deposition of P.W.1 i.e. father of the deceased clearly show that it
is well established that the Deceased was subjected to cruelty by the
Accused. The contradiction on which learned Advocate of the Respondent
has emphasised regarding whether the harassment started after 1 year or 1 ½
year is not of much significance. In fact the evidence on record clearly
establishes that the harassment started immediately after the marriage. The
improvements which the learned Advocate of the Appellant has emphasised
are not the material improvements. The P.W.1 in his cross examination has
given adequate explanation regarding aspect of improvement. It is
specifically mentioned that the police told them that they would record the
complaint in short and all the details should be told to the Court. Thus, there
 hcs 14/24 app345.2009.doc
is no substance in the contention regarding improvements. 26. The delay in filing FIR is also not of much significance as initially
the parents and other relatives were of the opinion that after the Deceased
delivers child there would be improvement in the relationship between the
Deceased and Accused and after birth of daughter they were hoping that
relations would improve and harassment and torture would stop. Thus, there
is no substance in the contention that there is delay in lodging the FIR. 27. However, it is to be noted that this is not a case where evidence on
record shows that the Deceased was only subjected to harassment and torture
throughout. The evidence on record also shows that the Accused celebrated
the birthday of the Deceased, birthday of the grand-daughter, celebrated
marriage anniversary, Accused No.1 took Deceased and daughter to trips at
various places, sometimes accused nos.2 and 3 also accompanied them.
Thus, the life of the Deceased was consisting of happy moments as well as
she was subjected to harassment and cruelty. 28. The learned Advocate of the Respondents also relied on the evidence
showing that the Accused kept money in Fixed Deposit in the name of the
Deceased, Accused No.1 had taken health policies and that the Deceased
was nominee in some Life Insurance policies. However these aspects do not
disprove that she was subjected to cruelty and torture. 29. The prosecution thereafter examined P.W.2 - Bandulal Ramchandra
Gujar i.e. real brother of P.W.1 and Uncle of Deceased - Swapnali. P.W.2
stated that after about one year of marriage, the Deceased started
complaining about trouble and ill treatment at her matrimonial house. She
used to tell about ill treatment on phone. She used to tell that accused used
 hcs 15/24 app345.2009.doc
to trouble her by taunting oftenly by saying that in the marriage proper
honour was not offered and her parents did not know how to pay respect.
P.W.2 further stated that marriage of his son Abhijit was performed on
23/06/2004 at Karad and the Deceased and Accused No.1 came to attend
the said marriage. P.W.2 stated that he had given proper gifts to all the
accused but immediately within two days Deceased called him and told that
the articles of gift given in the marriage were not liked by the accused and
he should immediately come to Pune. He further narrated that he came to
Pune and at that time the father-in-law of Deceased had thrown all articles
of gift before him and told that those articles were not liked by the accused
and he should take back the same. P.W.2 further deposed that if any mistake
is committed by them, he should forgive them and should not return back
the gift articles. P.W.2 has further deposed that, at that time father-in-law
told him that they do not want any gift and that they should give
Rs.10,000/- in cash. P.W.2 has further narrated that he was having
Rs.6,000/-, at that time he kept Rs.1,000/- with him for expenses and gave
Rs.5,000/- in cash to the father-in-law and returned back. He further
deposed that, however, thereafter also ill treatment and torture continued. 30. P.W.2 thereafter narrated about his telephonic conversation with
Accused No.1 when he informed him that the deceased had consumed
poison and admitted to Rao Nursing Home, Bibvewadi. Then he stated that
he had signed writing at Exhibit-27 after reading the same. He narrated that
the deceased by gestures of moving hands stated that she was having trouble
and it was unbearable for her and, therefore, she consumed poison. P.W.2
stated that during that period they were staying in Pune at the house of their
relative Ramesh Shah. hcs 16/24 app345.2009.doc 31. In the cross examination, he has stated that it is wrongly mentioned in
his statement that deceased cohabited happily for 1 ½ years instead of one
year. Certain omissions were put to him in the cross examination, however,
recording of the same in paragraph 10 of the examination in chief shows that
the said contradictions are not very major and material. P.W.2 was further
cross examined on various aspects regarding signing of medical papers,
health condition of deceased in hospital, the manner in which daughter of
deceased - Kashmira was taken to Nipani by him, Exhibit-29 regarding
return of ornaments. He denied the suggestions put to him regarding
behaviour of deceased of being short temper and dominating nature and her
demand of staying separately from her in-laws. He denied the suggestion
that accused no.1 used to persuade her that as his parents are old, it would
not be possible for them to stay separately and, therefore, she was angry and
annoyed and because of that frustration she committed suicide. 32. P.W.3 - Abhijit Gujar who is cousin brother of deceased deposed
that on 15/06/2005, he called deceased for giving invitation for naming
ceremony of his daughter and at that time the deceased told him that since
2-3 days quarrels were going on in her house and she was being harassed
physically and mentally by accused and she was taunted and beaten by in-
laws. He further stated, how the phone was disconnected and no further
talk could be made. He stated that on the same day at about 12.30 noon,
phone call was received regarding consumption of poison by the deceased.
He has produced in the evidence at Exhibit-32 telephone bill showing trunk
call made to Pune. He deposed about further incident regarding the gifts
given in his marriage were returned back to his father as they were not liked
by the accused when his father and brother went to the house of deceased.
In the cross examination, he admitted that when he went to the house of
accused for invitation of his marriage, the function of offering meals to the
 hcs 17/24 app345.2009.doc
person getting married known as "Kelvan" was performed. He admitted
photographs bearing Nos.35 and 36 from the album. 33. The prosecution has also examined P.W.8 - Manisha Rajesh Shah.
She stated that deceased was daughter of her sister. She narrated about ill
treatment of the deceased and stated that she learnt about ill treatment to
deceased from her sister. Thereafter, she has stated that when she had talk
with deceased on phone, the deceased disclosed her about ill treatment by
her husband, mother-in-law and father-in-law. She had narrated in her
evidence about various instances of cruelty. She was extensively cross
examined by the defence. P.W.8 is Advocate by profession and, therefore,
she was cross examined whether she appeared in the proceedings filed
regarding custody of daughter of deceased - Kashmira and regarding other
aspects. She was cross examined on aspect of omissions but the omissions
as set out in paragraph 4 of her cross examination are not major and material. 34. As far as the evidence of P.W.4 - Dr.Upendra Mohol is concerning
conduct of post mortem of deceased by him and, therefore, not much
relevant, however, deposition of P.W.5 - Dr. Naripalli Pattabhiramarao is
important as he is doctor who treated deceased. He deposed that on
15/06/2005, deceased was brought to hospital at about 11.45 am by her
husband and mother-in-law. He deposed that she was not in complete
conscious condition but was understanding and he asked certain questions
i.e. what was the name of insecticide consumed by her ? whether the bottle
of said insecticide was available ?, why she consumed said insecticide ? etc.
The examination in chief reveals that although deceased was not in
complete conscious condition but was in condition of understanding and
was attempting to give answers. The deposition of P.W. 5 futher reveal that
the deceased informed P.W.5 that she did not know name of insecticide and
 hcs 18/24 app345.2009.doc
she dropped the bottle of insecticide under stair-case of house and further
she stated that she consumed insecticide as she was fed up with her life.
P.W.5 further deposed that she was having breathing problem within 10-15
minutes of consumption of insecticide and was unable to breathe and,
therefore, she was put on ventilator. P.W.5 has stated that deceased was
admitted in hospital from 15/06/2005 to 22/06/2005 and she expired in the
hospital at 9.45 am on 22/06/2005. P.W.5 deposed that on the basis of
examination of patient and symptoms noticed and also from reports of
blood test and clinical examination in his opinion, the patient had
consumed the poison organo phosphorus compound. He further deposed
that bottle which was dropped by the deceased under stair-case of her
house was brought to him for his examination and it was found that the said
bottle was of Malathion plus chloriphoes. He deposed that said Malathion
plus chloriphoes are fatal poisons and consumption of the same in little
quantity is sufficient to cause death. 35. In the cross examination P.W.5 stated that in the talk deceased had
with himself and his wife, the deceased told them that she do not want to
live. The same is consistent with whatever he has stated in the examination
in chief. P.W.5 has deposed that hands of deceased were tied to the cot as
she was intubated and for avoiding removal of tube by the deceased. He
further deposed that as she was having fits she was given Atropine and pam
and the doses were repeated. He further deposed that after admission she was
not in condition to speak and she was intubated and after that tracheostomy
was done. He further deposed that since admission of deceased, police from
Sahakar Nagar police station used to visit hospital to see condition of
patient to record her statement, however, as the patient was not in condition
to speak and give statement, certificates to that effect were given to the
police as per Exhibit-39 to Exhibit-43. P.W.5 has further deposed that
 hcs 19/24 app345.2009.doc
when father, Uncle and relatives of deceased arrived, he asked them
whether they want to lodge police complaint and they stated that they are
from reputed family and therefore they do not want to make any complaint
to police. P.W.5 was re-examined by learned APP regarding contents of
Exhibit-27 and the learned trial Court has also asked one question. The said
portion is reprdouced hereinbelow for ready reference : hcs 20/24 app345.2009.doc 36. Mr. Deshpande, learned Advocate for the Respondents have
emphasized on the writing dated 15/06/2005 (Exhibit-27) which was signed
by the father and uncle of the deceased and the same was also signed by the
accused No. 1 and accused No. 3. A bare perusal of said Exhibit-27 clearly
shows that the said document was written on 15/06/2005 at about 12 noon
and the same was at that time signed by husband i.e. accused No. 1 and
mother-in-law i.e. accused No.2. As it is admitted position that the said
document was written on 15/06/2005 at 12 noon, there is no question of
execution of the same at that time by P.W.1 and P.W.2 as they reached the
Rao Nursing Home, Bibvewadi, Pune at about 5.30 pm in the evening on
15/06/2005. The said writing is to the effect that deceased had consumed
poison and her condition was very serious, she was also pregnant and
consent was given to the Doctors for giving her necessary treatment and that
Doctors had given idea that anything could happen to her life during
treatment. It is further mentioned that thereafter if any untoward incident
happens then in that event Doctors treating her would not be blamed and that
they do not want to register any police case. It appears that on said document
the Accused No.1 and the Accused No.3 put signatures, either before starting
the treatment or immediately after starting the treatment of the Deceased.
The said document was already prepared and signed by the accused No. 1
and accused No.3 at 12 noon on 15/06/2005 and thereafter signatures of
P.W. 1 i.e. father and P.W. 2 i.e. uncle of deceased obtained on the same at
about 6.30 p.m. The said writing by no stretch of imagination will help the
accused for contending that the F.I.R lodged was after thought as the main
emphasis of the said writing was that the Doctors treating the deceased
would not be held responsible. 37. In any case, the situation at 6.30 p.m. on 15/06/2005 is required to be
taken into consideration. At that particular period, the deceased was in the
 hcs 21/24 app345.2009.doc
hospital and she was put on the ventilator and therefore, the mental condition
of father of the deceased and the uncle of the deceased at the relevant time is
required to be taken into consideration. It is significant to note that their
priority at that point of time was to see that proper treatment is provided to
the deceased. It is not expected that at that point of time, they would lodge
police complaint. Therefore, no reliance can be placed on Exhibit-27 to
contend that the deceased was not treated with cruelty and was not tortured
and the F.I.R lodged was after thought. 38. P.W.6 is the Investigating Officer and P.W.7 PSI who recorded
FIR. Their cross examination is mainly from the point of view of omissions,
additions and contradictions in the statements recorded of the witnesses. 39. In this case, the defence have examined total four witnesses. D.W.1
Himani Sachin Tapasvi stated that on 1/06/2005, the deceased was referred
to her for pregnancy sonography and sonography test revealed that she was
two months pregnant. The report of the said sonography test is at
Exhibit-72. 40. D.W.2 - Sagar Ravindra Bansod was working as manager in
Chowgule Industries Pvt. Ltd., Tawade Colony, Pune. He deposed that in
the year 2005, he was working in the said company in the capacity of an
Accountant. He deposed that Chowgule Industries was engaged in business
of sales and services of Maruti vehicles. He produced Exhibit 74, 75 and 76
receipts in respect of payment and Exhibit-77 - certificate. The said
documents show that accused no.1 purchased Maruti Omni vehicle as per
invoice dated 25/03/2005 for total cost of vehicle as Rs.2,35,239/-, R.T.O.
charges are Rs.10,860/- and total is Rs.2,46,004/-. The said document
further reveal that vehicle was hypothecated to the State Bank of India and
 hcs 22/24 app345.2009.doc
accused no.1 has paid by cheque Rs.11,000/- and Rs.35,004/- and
Rs.2,00,000/- appears to be loan advanced by State Bank of India. In any
case the said evidence failed to disprove the evidence of demand of
Rs.1,00,000/-, payment of Rs.25,000/- in cash by the P.W.1 to the Accused
No.1 and harassment for less payment. 41. The main evidence of defence was of D.W.3 - Smt. Kirti S. Raka,
who was neighbour of the accused and staying in the same building where
the incident had taken place. She deposed that she was staying for lst 8
years in the said Vishnu Vihar Building where the accused were staying. Her
deposition was recorded in June-2008, therefore, it is clear that she was
staying in the same building atleast since 2001. She has deposed that she
stays on 5th floor and accused stays on 4th floor. She deposed that she used to
frequently visit house of the accused as well as accused and Swapnali i.e.
Deceased used to visit her house. She deposed that nature of Deceased was
hot temper and she used to beat her daughter and used to confine her on the
terrace. She deposed that accused used to treat deceased with love and
affection. She narrated the incident of 15/06/2005. She deposed that she was
examined as witness in the Family Court matter regarding custody of grand-
daughter - Kashmira. She was extensively cross examined including on the
aspect of hot tamper nature of deceased and deceased used to confine and
beat her daughter etc. 42. The evidence on record particularly of P.W. 1 i.e. father of deceased,
P.W. 2 i.e. uncle of deceased, P.W. 3 cousin of deceased establishes that the
deceased was treated with cruelty and she was harassed. All the witnesses
are consistent in their evidence regarding harassment and torture. As set out
hereinabove, the P.W. 1 father, P.W. 2 Uncle and P.W. 3 cousin of the
deceased have narrated about the various instances of cruelty and torture
 hcs 23/24 app345.2009.doc
which the accused subjected to the Deceased and their depositions are not
shaken in the cross examination. However, the factual position emerging
from their cross examination particularly the evidence to show that function
of marriage anniversary was celebrated, function of celebration of birthday
of deceased was arranged which was attended by the parents of deceased,
when P.W. 3 went to the house of accused for inviting them for his marriage
a dinner i.e. "kelvan" was arranged for him. After birth of daughter also
accused participated in the function. Further evidence shows that the accused
No. 1 took deceased and daughter for trips at Ahmadabad, Rajasthan,
Mahabaleshwar and Goa etc. and sometimes Accused Nos.2 and 3
accompanied with them. All these aspects show that although the Deceased
was subjected to cruelty and harassment, her life was mixture of happy
moments and the said instances of cruelty and harassment. It is also
established that all accused have contributed in creating happy moments in
the life of the Deceased. The evidence of D.W.3 indicate that the Deceased
was treated with love and affection by the Accused and that the Deceased
was of hot tempered and dominating nature. In these circumstances the
accused are entitled for benefit of doubt. 43. There is one more aspect which is required to be taken into
consideration. When the incident took place, daughter - Kashmira was
hardly three years old and she was taken by P.W.1, P.W.2 and their family
members at Nipani. However, the Respondent No.1 filed proceedings in
Family Court, Pune seeking his custody and the learned Judge, Family
Court, Pune granted custody to the Respondent No.1 and the Family Court
Appeal challenging the same was also dismissed. Daughter Kashmira is
presently staying with the Respondents and Mr.Deshpande, learned
Advocate submitted that Respondent No.1 is looking after Kashmira very
well and she is doing very well in her education career.
 hcs 24/24 app345.2009.doc 44. In any case, it is settled legal position that if two reasonable
conclusions are possible on the basis of evidence on record, the Appellate
Court should not disturb the findings of acquittal recorded by the Trial Court.
According to me, the view taken by the learned Trial Court is also possible
view on the basis of evidence on record. This is not a case where it can be
said that the view taken by the learned Trial Court could not have been taken
at all. In any case the evidence on record show that the Accused are entitled
for benefit of doubt. 45. As I am not interfering with the judgment and order of the learned
trial Court, I am not burdening this judgment by consideration of the
authorities cited by Mr.Deshpande, learned Advocate for Respondent Nos.1
to 3. 46. In view of the above discussion, the Criminal Appeal is dismissed,
however with no order as to costs. [MADHAV J. JAMDAR, J.]