DATED: 8th OCTOBER, 2018. P.C.:- 2. Heard Mr. Rahul S. Kadam, the learned counsel for the

Applicant and Mr. N.B. Patil, the learned APP for the Respondent- advanced by the learned counsels for the respective parties. 3. The aforesaid crime was registered pursuant to the FIR

lodged by one Amol Jagdale, brother of the deceased-Manik. Said

Manik had committed suicide on 23.11.2017. Perusal of the FIR prima

facie reveals that the first informant had taken loan from several

persons and despite payment of the same those persons were harassing

him, his brothers and father for returning the loan. The first informant

has stated that 4 to 5 months prior to suicide by the deceased, the

Applicant had forcibly taken the motorcycle of the deceased as he had

failed to repay the loan. The first informant claims that his brother has

committed suicide on account of the harassment meted out to him by

the Applicant and others. 4. Having perused the records, in my considered view the

allegations levelled against the Applicant do not prima facie disclose

essential ingredients to abetment under Section 107 of the IPC. 5. The material on record does not indicate that the Applicant

was involved in abetting the suicide. Prima facie there are no

reasonable grounds to show that the Applicant is involved in Megha 2/4 Megha 39_aba_49_2018.doc

committing the alleged offence. The learned counsel for the Applicant

has placed reliance on the order dated 20th February, 2018 passed in

Anticipatory Bail Application No.18 of 2018 whereby pre-arrest bail

has been granted to the similarly placed co-accused. The Applicant is a

permanent resident of Taluka-Indapur and hence, there is no

possibility of his absconding. It is submitted that there are no criminal

antecedents as against this Applicant. 6. Considering all the above facts and circumstances, in my

considered view this is a fit case for grant of pre-arrest bail. Hence, the

following order:- (SMT. ANUJA PRABHUDESSAI, J.) Digitally signed by Megha Megha Shridhar Parab
Shridhar Date: