% 18.07.2022 1. Vide previous order dated 14th March, 2022, a mechanism was agreed
 upon with the consent of both the parties as to the manner in which the
 infringing/offending domain names would be deactivated or suspended by
 the Defendant No.2 - GoDaddy India Web Services Private Limited
 (hereinafter, "GoDaddy"). The said mechanism is set out below: Plaintiff shall serve a copy of the affidavit or
 application upon GoDaddy.com LLC in
 advance. Upon satisfaction of the Court or the
 learned Joint Registrar, as the case may be,
 an appropriate order shall be passed,
 directing Defendant No.2 to suspend the
 identified domains. If and when such an order
 is passed. Plaintiff shall communicate the
 same to Defendant No.2
 for compliance. (d)Upon Defendant No.2's assurance that it
 would comply with the aforementioned order. Plaintiff agrees that Defendant No.2 shall be
 deleted from the array of parties on the next
 date of hearing." 2. Today, Mr. Jayant Mehta, ld. Senior Counsel appearing for the
 Plaintiff that there are 26 domain names for which requests have been sent
 to GoDaddy between 30th May, 2022 to 18th June 2022. However, no action
 has been taken by GoDaddy in this regard. He submits that GoDaddy has CS (COMM) 154/2021 Page 2 of 6 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:20.07.2022 12:14:33 also not responded as to the reasons for which the order dated 14th March,
 2022 has not been implemented. 3. On the other hand, Mr. Darpan Wadhwa, ld. Senior Counsel,
 appearing for the Defendant No.2 - GoDaddy submits that the Plaintiff is
 merely disclosing the partial facts of the case. He submits that a total of 70
 domain names were requested by the Plaintiff to be suspended/taken down.
 Out of those 70 domain names, 39 domain names have already been
 deactivated/suspended. Only 31 domain names have not yet been
 deactivated/suspended. Thus, GoDaddy has established its bona fides. 4. Mr. Wadhwa further submits that insofar as the 31 domain names
 which have not been deactivated/suspended are concerned, GoDaddy is
 bound by its Anti-Phishing Policy. Therefore, it is submitted that if there is a
 view within the Defendant No.2 - Company that the requested domain
 names do not violate the said Anti-Phishing Policy, they cannot be taken
 down or suspended, without specific orders from the competent Court. He
 also submits that the Plaintiff has not written or requested for deactivating
 these domain names as no affidavit has been filed by the Plaintiff till date, in
 terms of the order dated 14th March, 2022. 5. In response, Mr. Mehta, ld. Senior Counsel for the Plaintiff submits
 that emails have been written by ld. Counsel for the Plaintiff on 6th July,
 2022, and the Plaintiff did not want the matter to precipitate as matter as he
 was hoping for a response from the ld. Counsel for GoDaddy. A reply was
 received that the ld. Counsel for GoDaddy would revert, however, he has not
 reverted in this regard till date. 6. Heard ld. Senior Counsels for the parties. A perusal of the terms
 mechanism set out hereinabove, which were agreed upon between the CS (COMM) 154/2021 Page 3 of 6 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:20.07.2022 12:14:33 parties vide order dated 14th March, 2022, clearly shows that once the
 Plaintiff communicates the details of an infringing domain name to
 GoDaddy, the said Domain Name Registrar ('DNR') is expected to process
 the Plaintiff's request, if it finds the request to be `valid and justified'. Thus,
 until and unless the DNR finds the request to be invalid and unjustified, the
 request should be processed. It would not be permissible for the DNR to
 simply sit over the request on behalf of the Plaintiff for domain name
 suspension, especially in the face of the order dated 14th March, 2022
 passed by the Court. 7. At this stage, Mr Wadhwa, ld. Senior Counsel points out illustratively
 that insofar as one of the domain names, being 'www.godrejofficial.in', in
 respect of which a request was made by the Plaintiff is concerned, only one
 page content is available on the said domain name. He submits that such
 usage may not amount to phishing. Hence, GoDaddy would not have taken
 action as per its Anti-Phishing Policy. The content of the said domain name
 is set out below: 8. A perusal of the above domain name which has been illustratively
 relied upon shows that this is a classic case of misuse of the Plaintiff's mark
 'GODREJ'. The request in this case cannot be treated as a simple phishing
 request, but has to be considered in the context of the suit filed by the
 Plaintiff for the infringement of its trademark 'GODREJ', as also, the order
 dated 14th March, 2022 passed by the Court in respect of the same. The
 request of the Plaintiff in this case, therefore, has to be processed in the
 background of the suit, the orders passed by the Court, as also, GoDaddy's
 Abuse policy, and not on a standalone basis. 9. Since time has been sought by Mr. Wadhwa, ld. Senior Counsel,
 without commenting further at this stage, the DNR - GoDaddy is directed to
 place an affidavit on record giving the reasons and justification qua each of
 the domain names which have not yet been suspended/deactivated, as to
 why the said domain names have not been deactivated or suspended. In the
 said affidavit, the DNR shall clarify as to whether, in respect of any of these
 domain names, it is offering any services apart from domain names
 registration, such as hosting services, cloud servers, website development,
 etc., and if so, the details of the same shall also be placed on record. Further
 the complete details of the registrants of these domain names viz., name,
 address, phone number, email address, IP addresses, PAN card, credit card
 details if any shall also be filed in the affidavit. 10. It is made clear that if this Court finds that the DNR's stand is not
 sustainable in light of the present suit, as also, the order dated 14th March,
 2022, this Court would pass appropriate directions on the next date of
 hearing. 11. The list of domain names, handed over to the Court today by the
 Plaintiff, shall be placed on record by way of an affidavit. 12. List on 3rd August, 2022. PRATHIBA M. SINGH, J. JULY 18, 2022/dk/ad CS (COMM) 154/2021 Page 6 of 6 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:20.07.2022 12:14:33