1. The appellant has challenged the award of the learned

Tribunal whereby his claim petition has been dismissed. 2. FACTS OF THE CASE

2.1. The accident dated 21st June, 2008 resulted in grievous

injuries to the appellant. The appellant was driving his two

wheeler scooter No.DL-6SP-1632 while coming from Keshav

Puram towards Sarai Basti. The appellant met with an

accident with Maruti Van No.DL-2C-R-6342 near Mochi

Chowk, Keshav Puram. 2.2. The appellant suffered fracture on his right wrist,

fracture on his right shoulder and peeled off skin of his left MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 1 of 116 leg due to the accident. The appellant was treated at

Parmarth Mission Hospital, Hindu Rao Hospital and Aggarwal

Nursing Home. 2.3. The appellant appeared in the witness box as PW-2 and

deposed with respect to accident having been caused due to

rash and negligent driving of Maruti Van No.DL-2C-R-6342. The appellant also deposed with respect to the injuries

suffered by him, treatment taken and the expenditure

occurred by him. The appellant was cross-examined at

length by counsel for respondent No.3. The appellant

deposed in cross-examination that the road was about 10

feet wide and there was not much traffic. The appellant was

coming from the service lane approaching towards the main

road and had to take right turn on the main road. There was

no red light signal and the appellant stopped the scooter at

the corner upon seeing the van when he was hit by the van

coming at the very fast speed. 2.4. S.I. Narender Singh, P.S. Keshav Puram appeared as

PW-1 and proved the FIR No.134/2008 under Sections

279/337 as Ex.PW-1/1 and the MLC as Ex.PW-2/1. The FIR

was registered against the driver of the Van for rash and

negligent driving. 2.5. No evidence was led by the respondents to rebut the

evidence lead by the appellant. 3. FINDINGS OF THE CLAIMS TRIBUNAL

3.1. The learned Tribunal dismissed the claim petition

holding that the appellant has failed to prove the rash and

negligent driving by the driver of the Maruti Van. The learned

Tribunal has given following reasons in para 9 of the award:- Had he done so, accident should not have happened and,

therefore, it was his fault due to which accident had taken

place. 3.6. When petitioner had approached the corner of service

lane, he had already seen the van which was about 15 feet

away and, therefore, it was his duty to stop the scooter and

should have allowed the van to pass away since the van was

going on the main road and petitioner was coming from

service lane, for going on the main road. 3.7. The petitioner has failed to prove the fact that accident

had taken place due to rash and negligent driving of the

maruti van DL-2C-R-6342. 4. CONTENTIONS IN THIS APPEAL

4.1 The learned counsel for the appellant submits that the

findings of the Claims Tribunal are contrary to the evidence

on record. The learned counsel submits that appellant

appeared in the witness box as PW-2 and deposed that the

accident occurred due to the rash and negligent driving of

the driver of the Maruti Van who was driving at a very fast

speed. The appellant further deposed that he had seen the

Maruti Van at a distance of 15 feet and had stopped the

scooter and the Maruti Van hit the stationary scooter

because of negligent driving. No evidence was led by the

respondent to rebut the evidence led by the appellant. The

FIR recorded by the police against the driver of the Maruti

Van also supported the appellant‟s case. 4.2. The learned counsel for the appellant next submits that

the learned Tribunal has not conducted any inquiry as

contemplated under Sections 168 and 169 of the Motor

Vehicles Act, 1988. The learned counsel submits that if the

Tribunal had any doubt about the rash and negligent driving

of the Maruti Van, the learned Tribunal should have

summoned the record of the criminal case to ascertain the

truth instead of drawing an adverse inference against the

appellant. 4.3. The learned counsel for the appellant further submits

that the Claims Tribunal has disregarded the series of

judgments passed by this Court in which this Court has time

and again held that an inquiry under Section 168 of the

Motor Vehicles Act is not same as a trial under the Code of

Civil Procedure . The learned counsel submits that the scope

of inquiry under Sections 168 and 169 of the Motor Vehicles

Act should be elucidated for guidance of the Claims Tribunal. 5. THE NEED TO GO INTO DEPTH

5.1. There is a need to go deeper into the matter and clarify

the legal position and more so after the adoption of a new

stance by the police, and the Insurance Companies, as also

the various pronouncements of this Court. It becomes

necessary to do so, so that there is no confusion, there is

consistency and the practice and procedures in this field find

development and application that serves the goal. Considering all this, vide order dated 23rd December, 2009,

this Court appointed Dr. Arun Mohan, Senior Advocate and

author of "Justice, Courts and Delays" as amicus curiae to

assist this Court. Thereafter, the amicus curiae was heard at

length, several other counsels also informally heard, and this

judgment is being rendered. 6. SECTION 168 OF THE MOTOR VEHICLES ACT, 1988

6.1. The objective of this legislation being well known, does

not require detailing and we can proceed straight with the

statutory provision. Section 168 of the Motor Vehicles Act, MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 5 of 116 1988 provides that the Claims Tribunal shall hold an inquiry

into the claim. Section 168 of the Motor Vehicles Act is

reproduced hereunder:- 7. SECTION 169 OF THE MOTOR VEHICLES ACT, 1988

7.1. Section 169 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 provides

that in holding the inquiry under Section 168 , the Claims MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 6 of 116 Tribunal may follow such summary procedure as it thinks fit. Section 169 of the Motor Vehicles Act is reproduced

hereunder:- 8. DELHI MOTOR ACCIDENTS CLAIMS TRIBUNAL RULES, 2008

8.1. The Delhi Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal Rules, 2008,

notified by Government of NCT of Delhi on 13th July, 2009,

provide the procedure to be followed by the Claims Tribunal. Some of the relevant Rules are as under:- section (1) of section 158 of the Act, and
 thereupon either to take the same in possession
 against receipt, or to retain the photocopies of
 the same, after attestation thereof by the person
 producing the same; (c) verify the genuineness of the documents
 mentioned in clause (b) by obtaining
 confirmation in writing from the office /authority
 purporting to have issued the same; (d) submit detailed report regarding an
 accident to the Claim Tribunals, in Form "A" by
 not later than thirty days of the receipt of notice
 in Form "B", accompanied by requisite
 documents which shall include copy of report
 under section 173 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973(2 of 1974), medico legal
 certificate, post-mortem report (in case of
 death), first information report, photographs, site
 plan, photocopies of documents mentioned in
 clause (c), report regarding confirmation of
 genuineness thereof, if received, or otherwise
 action taken; (e) furnish to the applicant information and
 particulars about the accident in Form "A" within
 thirty days, on receiving the application in
 Form "C" by the person who wishes to make an
 application for compensation and who is involved
 in an accident, or his next of kin, or the legal
 representative of the deceased, or the insurance
 company, as the case may be. Provided that such information shall be
 given to the insurance company on payment of a
 fees of rupees ten only per page; (f) not to release and impound the vehicle
 involved in the accident, when it is found that it
 is not covered by policy of insurance of third MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 8 of 116 party risks, taken in the name of the registered
 owner, or when the registered owner fails to
 furnish copy of such insurance policy, and bring
 this to the notice of the Magistrate having
 jurisdiction over the area, where the accident
 occurred. (g) report to the Magistrate mentioned in
 clause (f), as to why the registered owner has
 not been prosecuted for offence punishable
 under section 196 of the Act, where such
 prosecution has not been preferred, despite
 existence of facts constituting such an offence. (2) The duties enumerated in sub rule (1) shall
 be construed as if they are included in section 60 of the Delhi Police Act 1978 (34 of 1978) and any
 breach thereof shall entail consequences
 envisaged in that law. Rule 4 - Duties of the registering authority.-
 It shall be the duty of the concerned registering
 authority to- (a) submit a detailed report in Form "D" to the
 Claims Tribunal regarding a motor vehicle
 involved in an accident or licence of the driver
 thereof within fifteen days of the receipt of
 direction in Form "E"; (b) furnish within fifteen days, the requisite
 information in Form "D" on receiving the
 application in Form "F", by the person who
 wishes to make an application for compensation
 or who is involved in an accident arising out of
 use or his next of kin, or to the legal
 representative of the deceased or to the
 insurance company, as the case may be. Provided that information shall be given to
 the insurance company on payment of rupees
 ten only per page. Rule 5 - Duties of the insurance company.-
 It shall be the duty of the divisional manager of
 the insurance company, as expeditiously as
 possible, to- (a) move an application in Form "C" before the
 investigating police officer with prescribed fees
 and gather full information about the accident, at
 the earliest, after receiving information about it, MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 9 of 116 or on receipt of notice from the Claims Tribunals
 under rule 13; (b) ascertain and verify facts about insurance
 of motor vehicle(s) involved in the accident and
 confirm the same to the Claims Tribunal within
 thirty days of receiving notice of the claim case; (c) move application before the concerned
 registering authority in Form "F" and gather
 information about the motor vehicle(s) involved,
 and the driving licence(s) held by the driver(s)
 thereof as per details mentioned in Form"D"; (d) deposit with the written statement in the
 Claims Tribunal, the amount equivalent to the
 compensation, awardable on the principle of no
 fault liability under section 140 of the Act in such
 cases where the information received in Form
 "A" and Form "D" confirms death or permanent
 disability to have been caused as a result of the
 use of the motor vehicle covered by the
 insurance certificate/policy issued by it. Rule 6 - Prohibition against release of
 motor vehicle involved in accident.- (1) No court shall release a motor vehicle
 involved in an accident resulting in death or
 bodily injury or damage to property, when such
 vehicle is not covered by the policy of insurance
 against third party risks taken in the
 name of registered owner or when the registered
 owner fails to furnish copy of such insurance
 policy despite demand by investigating police
 officer, unless and until the registered owner
 furnishes sufficient security to the satisfaction of
 the court to pay compensation that may be
 awarded in a claim case arising out of such
 accident. (2) Where the motor vehicle is not covered by a
 policy of insurance against third party risks, or
 when registered owner of the motor vehicle fails
 to furnish copy of such policy in circumstance
 mentioned in subrule(1), the motor vehicle shall
 be sold off in public auction by the magistrate
 having jurisdiction over the area where accident
 occurred, on expiry of three months of the
 vehicle being taken in possession by the
 investigating police officer, and proceeds thereof
 shall be deposited with MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 10 of 116 the Claims Tribunal having jurisdiction over the
 area in question, within fifteen days for purpose
 of satisfying the compensation that may have
 been awarded, or may be awarded in a claim
 case arising out of such accident. Rule 7 - Presumption about reports.- The
 contents of reports submitted to the Claims
 Tribunal in Form "A" and Form "D" by
 investigating police officer and concerned
 registering authority respectively, and
 confirmation under clause (b) of rule 5 by the
 insurance company shall be presumed to be
 correct, and shall be read in evidence without
 formal proof, till proved to the contrary. Rule 8 - Applications.- (1) Every application for payment of
 compensation shall be made in Form "G" and
 shall be accompanied by as many copies, as may
 be required, to the Claims Tribunal having
 jurisdiction to adjudicate upon it. (2) There shall be appended to every such
 application:- from investigating police officer, and registering
 authority; and if no such report(s) have been
 obtained reasons thereof; (f) medical certificate of injuries, or the effect
 thereof, other than those included in Form "C". (3) The Claims Tribunal may also require the
 applicant to furnish the following information to
 satisfy itself that spurious or a collusive claim
 has not been preferred:- and (c) connection of persons mentioned in
 clause (b), if any with the applicant. (4) Any application which is found defective on
 scrutiny may be returned by the Claims Tribunal
 for being re-submitted after removing the
 defects within a specified period not exceeding
 two weeks. (5) Every application for compensation shall be
 registered separately in appropriate register
 prescribed as per rule 36. Rule 9 - Police Reports under sub-section
 (6) of section 158 of the Act and action
 thereon.- (1) The report in terms of sub-section (6) of section 158 of the Act by the police shall mutatis
 mutandis be in Form "A". (2) On receipt of report mentioned in sub-rule
 (1) , the Claims Tribunal shall go through the MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 12 of 116 same and may call for such further information
 or material as considered necessary for proper
 and effective action in accordance with
 subsection (4) of section 166 of the Act. (3) The Claims Tribunal after examination of the
 report, further information/material, if called for,
 shall register the claim case thereon and, then,
 issue notice for appearance to all parties
 concerned, which would include the
 victim(s) of the accident, or his/her legal
 representative(s), as the case may be, driver,
 owner and insurer of the vehicle(s) involved, in
 Form "H". (4) On receipt of notice, the parties mentioned in
 the forgoing provision would be required to
 appear and declare through affidavit, if any claim
 case had either been preferred, or was being
 preferred in respect of the same
 cause of action, and if so, the police report
 treated as claim case would be tagged to such
 claim case preferred independently by the
 parties. (5) If the person(s) injured, or legal
 representative(s) of the person(s) deceased do
 not appear in response to the notice
 aforementioned in the manner indicated above,
 the Claims Tribunal may presume that the said
 parties were not interested in pursuing the claim
 for any compensation in such proceedings, and
 on such presumption it shall close the case. (6) Unless the police report treated as claim
 case stands tagged to independent claim case
 preferred by the parties themselves, the Claims
 Tribunal shall call upon the person(s) injured or
 legal representative(s) of
 the person(s) deceased, as the case may be, and
 who may have appeared in response to the
 notice, to submit statement of facts regarding
 compensation, if any claimed by them, which
 statement of facts shall be along the lines
 required to be furnished in application in
 Form "G". (7) If statement of facts about compensation
 claimed and basis thereof are furnished by the
 parties in the manner indicated in sub-rule(6),
 the case shall be further proceeded with in the
 same manner as required to deal with MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 13 of 116 applications moved by the parties for
 compensation directly before the Claims
 Tribunal. (8) If after statement of facts about
 compensation claimed has been furnished by the
 party, which subsequently commits default in
 appearance,
 the provisions of Order IX of the Code of Civil
 Procedure , 1908(5 of 1908) would apply: Rule 15 - Local Inspection.- (1) The Claims Tribunal may, at any time
 during the course of a proceeding before it, visit
 the site at which the accident occurred for the
 purpose of making local inspection or examining
 any persons likely to be able to give information
 relevant to the proceedings. (2) Any party to a proceeding or representative
 of any such party, may accompany the Claims
 Tribunal for a local inspection. (3) The Claims Tribunal after making a local
 inspection shall note briefly in a memorandum
 any facts observed, and such memorandum shall
 form part of the record of proceeding. (4) The memorandum referred to in sub-rule
 (3) may be shown to any party to the
 proceedings who desires to see it and a copy
 thereof may, on application, be supplied to any
 such party. (5) The Claims Tribunal may, if any journey is
 undertaken for the purpose specified in this rule
 at the instance of a party, require the party, to
 deposit beforehand an amount equivalent to the
 actual expenses likely to be incurred by it and its
 staff for the purpose, and draw only the amount
 so deposited by the parties to meet all the
 incidental expenditure in connection with such
 journey. Rule 16 - Inspection of the vehicle.- The
 Claims Tribunal may, if it thinks fit, require the
 motor vehicle involved in the accident to be
 produced by the owner for inspection at a
 particular time and place to be mentioned by it,
 in consultation with the owner. Rule 17 - Power of summary examination.-
 The Claims Tribunal during the local inspection or
 at any other time at a formal hearing of a case
 pending before, it may, examine summarily any
 person likely to be able to give information
 relating to such case, whether such person has
 been or is to be called as a witness in the case or
 not and whether any or all of the parties are
 present or not. Rule 18 - Power to direct medical
 examination.- The Claims Tribunal may, if it MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 16 of 116 considers necessary, direct, in Form "J", any
 medical officer or any board of medical officers
 in a government or municipal hospital to
 examine the injured and issue certificate
 indicating the degree and extent of the disability,
 if any, suffered as a result of the accident, and it
 shall be the duty of such medical officer or board
 to submit the report within
 fifteen days of receipt of direction. Rule 19 - Co-opting of persons during
 inquiry.- (1) The Claims Tribunal may if it thinks fit, co-
 opt one or more persons possessing special
 knowledge with respect to any matter relevant to
 the inquiry, to assist in holding the inquiry. (2) The remuneration, if any, to be paid to the
 person(s) co-opted shall in every case be
 determined by the Claims Tribunal." Rule 25 - Obtaining of supplementary
 information and documents.- The Claims
 Tribunal shall obtain whatever supplementary
 information and documents, which may be found
 necessary from the police, medical and other
 authorities and proceed to adjudicate upon the
 claim whether the parties who were given notice
 appear or not on the appointed date. Rule 29 - Adjournment of hearing.- If the
 Claims Tribunal finds that an application cannot
 be disposed of at one hearing, it shall record the
 reasons which necessitate the adjournment and
 also inform the parties present of the date of
 adjourned hearing. Rule 31 - Enforcement of award of the
 Claims Tribunal.- Subject to the provisions of section 174 of the Act, the Claims Tribunal shall,
 for the purpose of enforcement of its award,
 have all the powers of a Civil Court in the
 execution of a decree under the Code of Civil
 Procedure , 1908(5 of 1908), as if the award
 where a decree for the payment of money
 passed by such court in a civil suit. Rule 32 - Vesting of powers of Civil Court in
 the Claims Tribunal.- Without prejudice to the
 provisions of section 169 of the Act every Claims
 Tribunal shall exercise all the powers of a Civil MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 17 of 116 Court, and in doing so for discharging its
 functions it shall follow the procedure laid down
 in the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908(5 of 1908)." 9. RELEVANT JUDGMENTS

 The relevant judgments of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court,

this Court and other High Courts on the scope of inquiry and

other related matters under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 with a few excerpts are as under:- The Hon‟ble Supreme Court has held as under:- Once the claimant/s appear, the miscellaneous
 application shall be converted to claim petition.
 Where a claimant/s file the claim petition even
 before the receipt of the AIR by the Tribunal, the MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 19 of 116 AIR may be tagged to the claim petition. (c) The Tribunal shall enquire and satisfy itself
 that the AIR relates to a real accident and is not
 the result of any collusion and fabrication of an
 accident (by any 'Police Officer - Advocate -
 Doctor' nexus, which has come to light in several
 cases). (d) The Tribunal shall by a summary inquiry
 ascertain the dependent family members/legal
 heirs. The jurisdictional police shall also enquire
 and submit the names of the dependent legal
 heirs. (e) The Tribunal shall categorize the claim cases
 registered, into those where the insurer disputes
 liability and those where the insurer does not
 dispute the liability. (f) Wherever the insurer does not dispute the
 liability under the policy, the Tribunal shall make
 an endeavour to determine the compensation
 amount by a summary inquiry or refer the matter
 to the Lok Adalat for settlement, so as to dispose
 of the claim petition itself, within a time frame
 not exceeding six months from the date of
 registration of the claim petition. (g) The insurance companies shall be directed to
 deposit the admitted amount or the amount
 determined, with the claims tribunals within 30
 days of determination. The Tribunals should
 ensure that the compensation amount is kept in
 Fixed deposit and disbursed as per the directions
 contained in General Manager, KSRTC v.
 Susamma Thomas MANU/SC/0389/1994 : 1994
 (2) SCC 176. (h) As the proceedings initiated in pursuance of Section 158(6) and 166(4) of the Act, are
 different in nature from an application by the
 victim/s under Section 166(1) of the Act, Section 170 will not apply. The insurers will
 therefore be entitled to assist the Tribunal (either
 independently or with the owners of the vehicles)
 to verify the correctness in regard to the
 accident, injuries, age, income and dependents
 of the deceased victim and in determining the
 quantum of compensation. 14. The aforesaid directions to the Tribunals MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 20 of 116 are without prejudice to the discretion of each
 Tribunal to follow such summary procedure as it
 deems fit as provided under Section 169 of the
 Act. Many Tribunals instead of holding an inquiry
 into the claim by following suitable summary
 procedure, as mandated by Sections 168 and 169 of the Act, tend to conduct motor accident
 cases like regular civil suits. This should be
 avoided. The Tribunal shall take an active role in
 deciding and expeditious disposal of the
 applications for compensation and make
 effective use of Section 165 of the Evidence Act,
 1872, to determine the just compensation. Suggestions for Insurance Companies 15. In cases of death, where the liability of the
 insurer is not disputed, the insurance companies
 should, without waiting for the decision of the
 Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal or a settlement
 before the Lok Adalat, endeavour to pay to the
 family (Legal representatives) of the deceased,
 compensation as per the standard formula
 determined by the decisions of this court. 16. In cases of injuries to any accident victim,
 where the liability is not disputed, the insurer
 should offer treatment at its cost to the injured,
 without waiting for an award of the Tribunal. If
 insurance companies can meet the bills for
 treatment of those who have taken a medical
 insurance policy, we see no reason why they
 should not extend a similar treatment to the
 accident victims of vehicles insured with them. 17. In countries like United Kingdom, the
 percentage of motor accident claims, with
 reference to the accidents is very low. This is
 because immediately after being notified of the
 accident, the insurer makes its own enquiries
 and satisfies itself about its liability and
 voluntarily assesses and pays the compensation
 to the victim. Only where the insurer denies the
 claim or where the victim is not satisfied with the
 quantum of compensation paid, the matter goes
 to court. There should not adopt such a
 procedure. In death cases, the calculation of
 compensation is now standardized by several
 decisions of this court [See for example: Sarla
 Verma Vs Delhi Transport Corporation - 2009 (6)
 SCC 121]. The insurers can either by relying
 upon the police report (AIR) or by enquiring with
 the family or the employer of the deceased, MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 21 of 116 ascertain the three inputs required for
 calculation of the compensation, the is, age of
 the deceased, income of the deceased and
 number of dependent family members. With
 these particulars, the insurers can easily
 calculate the compensation and offer a
 compensation, either a lump sum or an annuity.
 Similarly in cases of injuries, the insurers can
 offer treatment in hospitals approved by it and
 meet the expenses or pay the bills, or if the
 victim has already undergone the treatment,
 reimburse the cost of treatment. It can also
 reimburse other items of special damages, the
 damages for pain suffering, which is also
 standardized in several decisions of this court.
 By such voluntary payment there will be all
 round benefits. The insurers save interest and
 litigation cost and discharge their obligation to
 the society. The victims will be relieved from
 financial hardship and benefit from timely
 effective treatment. Burden on courts will be
 reduced and judicial man power can be diverted
 to more complex cases. 18. To protect and preserve the compensation
 amount awarded to the families of the deceased
 victim special schemes may be considered by
 the insurance companies in consultation with the
 life Insurance Corporation of India, State Bank of
 India or any other Nationalized Banks. One
 proposal is for formulation of a scheme in
 consultation with Nationalized Banks under
 which the compensation is kept in fixed deposit
 for an appropriate period and interest is paid by
 the Bank monthly to the claimants without any
 need for claimants having to approach either the
 court or their counsel or the Bank for that
 purpose. The scheme should ensure that the
 amount of compensation is utilized only for the
 benefit of the injured claimants or in case of
 death, for the benefit of the dependent family.
 We extract below the particulars of a special
 Scheme offered by a nationalized Bank at the
 instance of the Delhi High Court : 19. The Insurance companies may also
 consider offering an annuity instead of lump sum
 compensation. They may prepare an annuity
 scheme with the involvement of Life Insurance
 Corporation of India or its own actuaries, under
 which they can pay a monthly annuity to the
 widow (for life) and to minor children (till they
 attain majority) and in addition a lump sum at
 the end of 20 or 25 years to the widow. The
 benefit of such annuity scheme may also be
 extended to victims who are permanently
 disabled in accidents. Once such schemes are in
 place, the victims and the tribunal will have
 some choice in the manner of payment of
 compensation. 20. Whenever the insurance companies find
 that the driver of the insured vehicle possessed
 fake/forged driving license, they should lodge a
 complaint with the concerned police for
 prosecution. This will reduce the incidence of
 fake licenses and increase the road travel
 safety." 9.2. New India Assurance Company Limited vs. Anita ,
 order dated 6th January, 2010 in SLP (Civil)
 No.35537/2009-

 The Hon‟ble Supreme Court has held that the summary

procedure under Sections 168 and 169 of the Motor Vehicles MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 23 of 116 Act, 1988 should be consistent with the rules of natural

justice but the Claims Tribunal is not bound by the technical

rules of evidence. The findings of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court

are reproduced hereunder:- 9.3. Rajesh Tyagi vs. Jaibir Singh , FAO.No.842/2003-

 This Court has given various directions to the Insurance

Companies on 8th June, 2009 and 5th November, 2009. These

may be summarised as under:- This Court has issued following directions for proper

investigation of road accident cases:- 13.2. The mechanical inspection reports that are
 prepared are also, I find, in a majority of cases,
 of a very superficial and cursory nature. The
 inspection ought to be carried out by qualified
 personnel who are able to indicate in their
 reports the exact physical conditions of the
 vehicles. They should be able to point out with
 exactitude the damage suffered by the vehicles
 as a result of the impact. The mechanical
 inspection report should indicate all the tell-tale
 signs of the collision such as the paint of one
 vehicle rubbing off on the other. It should also
 indicate as to whether the vehicles were
 mechanically sound or not prior to the impact so
 as to enable the court to arrive at a conclusion as
 to whether the collision took place due to human
 rashness or negligence or mechanical failure
 beyond human control. 13.3. As a rule, photographs ought to be taken
 not only of the vehicles involved in the collision
 but also of the site and surrounding areas so that
 the exact topography can be easily discerned by
 courts. 13.4. The prevalent weather conditions must be
 noted by the investigating officer. This would go
 to establish as to whether the road was slippery
 due to rain; whether there was poor visibility due
 to fog or mist etc.

 13.5. Furthermore, the path of movement of the
 vehicles must be sought to be established in the
 course of investigation and not be left open to
 ambiguity and doubt as in the present case. 13.6. The drivers of the vehicle involved must
 also be subjected to tests to reveal whether they
 had consumed any intoxicants. 13.7. Proper investigation of such accidents
 would go a long way in aiding the criminal justice
 system in convicting those who are guilty and
 acquitting those who are innocent. A shoddy
 investigation will only point in one direction and
 that is in the acquittal of all whether they are
 guilty or whether they are innocent. Because, no
 criminal court would (and ought not to) convict
 any person merely on the basis of conjectures,
 assumptions, probabilities. All elements of
 subjectivity need to be eliminated and the
 investigation should be such that, when a charge MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 27 of 116 sheet is filed, the court is presented with a case
 which when taken objectively would lead to the
 inescapable conclusion that a conviction is
 maintainable." 9.5. New India Assurance Co. Ltd. vs. Kashmiri Lal ,
 AIR 2006 Delhi 112 - This Court has given the following directions to the

Claims Tribunals:- 9.6. UOI vs. Nanisiri , MAC.APP.No.682/2005 decided
 on 13th January, 2010, MANU/DE/0218/2010-

 This Court has issued the following directions to the

Claims Tribunals for the protection of the award amount:- 9.7. New India Assurance Co. Ltd. vs. Ganga Devi,
 MAC.APP.135/2008 decided on 20th January,
 2010-

 This Court has issued the following directions to the

Claims Tribunals for the protection of the award amount:- 9.8. Resham vs. Harish Kaushik, MAC.APP . nd
 No.560/2007 decided on 22 February, 2010-

 This Court has issued the following directions to the

Claims Tribunals for protection of the award amount:- 9.9. Sobat Singh vs. Ramesh Chandra Gupta ,
 MAC.APP.No.422/2009 decided on 23rd February,
 2010-

 This Court has issued the following directions to the

Claims Tribunals for streamlining the system:- Upon such proof being filed, the Claims Tribunal
 shall ensure that the interest upto date of notice of
 deposit has been deposited by all concerned. v) If the award amount is not deposited within the
 time provided in the award, the Claims Tribunals
 shall proceed to recover/execute the award in
 terms of the directions of this Court in the case of New India Assurance Company Ltd. Vs.
 Kashmiri Lal , 2007 ACJ 688. (vi) The record of all the awards passed by the
 Claims Tribunals shall be maintained by the Nazirs
 in chronological order according to the date of the
 award in such a manner that it is easy for the Nazir
 as well as the enquiring litigants/lawyers to
 ascertain whether the payment of their award has
 been received or not. The following can be
 considered as a format:- 9.10.New India Assurance Co. Ltd. vs. Rakesh Ahuja ,
 MAC.APP.No.236/2009 decided on 23rd December,
 2009, MANU/DE/3421/2009- MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 34 of 116 This Court has issued the following directions to curb

the menace of fake driving licences:- DCP/Crime has nominated Mr. Mohan Singh
 Dabas, ACP/Anti-Auto Theft Squad, Crime
 Branch, Phone No.011-26925457 as nodal officer
 to monitor the fake driving licence cases. (ii) All the Insurance Companies shall make a
 complaint whenever they get information of fake
 driving licence. The Insurance Companies shall
 also compile the data of fake driving licences in
 respect of accidents which have occurred in the
 last three years, i.e., after 1st January, 2007 in
 Delhi and shall make a complaint to the DCP,
 Crime Branch, Delhi Police in the format given in
 para -11 (ii) of the order dated 3 rd December,
 2009. The complaint shall be accompanied by the
 copy of the fake driving licence. The complaint
 shall be transmitted electronically to Delhi Police
 at the E-mail ID [email protected] . along with the
 scanned copy of the licence said to be fake. The
 complaint shall also be made in writing duly
 signed by the authorized officer of the Insurance
 Company. (iii) The Delhi Police shall take the following
 action in respect of the aforesaid complaints:- 9.11. Saramma Scaria Vs. Mathai , 2003 ACJ 213-

 The Division Bench of Kerala High Court has given the

following directions to the Claims Tribunals:- 9.12. Rekha vs. Raj Balam Rajbhar ,
 th
 MAC.APP.No.576/2007 decided on 9 December,
 2009 - This case related to death of a 8 year old girl where
 mother of the deceased girl filed the claim petition.
 The appellant was from the lowest strata of the society.
 The Claims Tribunal dismissed the claim petition on the
 ground that the appellant could not produce the
 document to show her relationship with the child. The
 Claims Tribunal did not conduct any inquiry into the
 matter. This Court, in appeal, directed the SDM to
 conduct the inquiry. The SDM conducted the detailed
 inquiry and submitted the report that the appellant was
 the mother of the deceased child which was accepted
 by this Court and the award was passed. 9.13. Rukmani Jain Ahri L. Sarikamnth Nayak,
 MAC.APP.No.524/2009 decided on 14th January,
 2010-

 The accident resulted in the death of a man in road
 accident in Tamil Nadu. The legal representatives
 filed the claim petition in Delhi alleging that they were
 residing in Delhi at the time of filing of the claim
 petition. The learned Tribunal dismissed the claim
 petition without conducting any inquiry. In appeal,
 this Court directed the SHO to conduct an inquiry.
 The SHO submitted the report confirming that the
 legal representatives were residents of Delhi at the
 time of filing of the claim petition. This Court
 accepted the report of the SHO and set aside the
 contrary findings of the learned Tribunal. The case
 was remanded back for proper inquiry by the Tribunal. 9.14. INTEREST ON THE AWARD AMOUNT

 The question of Interest on the award amount being an
important one, decisions on this may now be referred to:- 9.14.2. In the case of Ghaziabad Development
Authority vs. Balbir Singh, II (2004) CPJ 12 (SC), the
Hon‟ble Supreme Court examined the question of law on the
issue whether the grant of interest @ 18% per annum by
Consumer Forums in cases of deficiency of service by
Development Authorities like HUDA and GDA was justifiable. 9.14.3. It was submitted by learned Attorney General
before the Apex Court that the interest should be awarded
taking into consideration the rates of interest payable by
Financial Institutions if the amount were deposited with
them. He further submitted that under the Interest Act ,
"Correct Rate of Interest" would mean the highest of the
maximum rates at which interest may be paid on different
class of deposit by different class of Scheduled Banks in
accordance with the direction given or issued under the RBI.
The reliance was placed on the judgment of Central Bank
of India vs. Ravindra , AIR 2001 SC 3095 where the
interest had been defined. The reference was also made to
the case of Hon‟ble Supreme Court relating to motor accident
claims in the case of United india insurance Co. Ltd. vs.
Patricia Jean Mahajan (supra) where in context of claims
under Motor Vehicle Act , the Hon‟ble Supreme Court held
that with the change in economy and policy of RBI, the MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 40 of 116 interest rates were lowered and the interest @ 9% per
annum was awarded on the footing that the Nationalized
Banks were granting interest at that rate on fixed deposit for
one year. The arguments of learned Attorney General are
recorded in paras 13 to 17 of the judgment.
9.14.4. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court held that the principle
that interest must be granted at Bank rate of interest is only
applicable where proceedings are for recovery of debt and
damages and where refund of amount is being claimed and
the direction is to refund amount with interest, but this
principle does not apply to grant of compensation. The
finding of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in para 18 of the
judgment is reproduced herein: - 9.14.5. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court further held that
when the Commission is satisfied that the complainant is
entitled to compensation for harassment or mental agony or
oppression, they should direct the department concerned to
pay the amount to the complainant from the public fund MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 41 of 116 immediately but to recover the same from those who are
responsible for such unpardonable behaviour. It was held
that the word compensation is very wide connotation and it
may constitute actual loss or expected loss and may extend
to compensation for physical, mental or even emotional
sufferings, insult or injury or loss. The observations of the
Hon‟ble Supreme Court in this regard are reproduced herein:- 9.14.6. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court held that the
Commission must determine that there has been deficiency
in service which has resulted in loss or injury and in cases MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 42 of 116 where the possession had not been given to the allottee,
grant of interest @18% per annum was upheld by the Court.
The findings of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in this regard are
as under:- 9.14.7. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court held that interest
according to Bank Rates can be directed to be paid only
where the proceedings are for recovery of debt and damages
and where the refund of amount is claimed. However, where
the authority has failed to discharge its obligations or acted
capriciously or arbitrarily or negligent exercise or non-
exercise of power, which has resulted in harassment and
mental suffering, the interest up to 18% per annum can be
awarded by way of compensation. In paras 21 and 22, the
Hon‟ble Supreme Court upheld the award of interest @18%
per annum in cases where the allotment of plots was made MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 43 of 116 and the payment was collected but subsequently the scheme
was cancelled and the money was not returned.
9.14.8. The compensation becomes due immediately
upon the accident and the interest is imposed by way of
penalty for mental agony and harassment and not by way of
bank rate. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court has permitted
interest @18% per annum in the case of Ghaziabad
Development Authority vs. Balbir Singh (supra) on the
ground that the interest is by way of penalty. Those cases
related to the default of the authorities to provide the
plots/houses in terms of the agreement. The motor accident
claims are on a better footing as the non-payment of the
award amount violates Article 21 of the Constitution and the
delay in payment of compensation may lead to irreparable
damage as most of the times the victims of the road accident
belong to the lowest strata of the society and death of the
sole bread winner of a large family leads to starvation of the
family members. 9.14.9. Where the Insurance Company has computed the
compensation in accordance with law without any delay, has
deposited the admitted amount and has contested the case
only with respect to the disputed amount or has bonafide
defence, the interest should be awarded according to bank
rates. However, where the Insurance Company has failed to
discharge its obligations or acted capriciously or arbitrarily or
negligent exercise or non-exercise of power, which has
resulted in harassment and mental suffering to the claimant,
the Claims Tribunal may consider awarding higher interest in
terms of the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Ghaziabad Development Authority vs. Balbir Singh (supra). 9.15. Sat Prakash vs. Jagdish in FAO.No.365/1999
 decided on 26th March, 2010-

 The relevant findings of this Court relating to the legal

fees of lawyers are as under:- 9.16. Somari Devi vs. Ragwar Singh in FAO
 No.884/2003 decided on 22nd May, 2009-

 This Court has elaborated the scope of Section 165 of

the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. The relevant findings of this

Court are reproduced hereunder:- 13. This section invests the Judge with plenary
 powers to put any question to any witness or
 party; in any form, at any time, about any fact
 relevant or irrelevant. Section 165 is intended to
 arm the Judge with the most extensive power
 possible for the purpose of getting at the truth.
 The effect of this section is that in order to get to
 the bottom of the matter before it, the Court will
 be able to look at and inquire into every fact
 whatever and thus possibly acquire valuable
 indicative evidence which may lead to other
 evidence strictly relevant and admissible. The
 Court is not, however, permitted to found its
 judgment on any but relevant statements. 14. A Judge, who at the trial merely sits and
 records evidence without caring so to conduct
 the examination of the witnesses that every
 point is brought out, is not fulfilling his duty. 15. Mr. Edmund Burke arguing in Warren
 Hastings Trial said that it is the duty of the Judge
 to receive every offer of evidence, apparently
 material, suggested to him, though the parties
 themselves through negligence, ignorance, or
 corrupt collusion, could not bring it forward. He
 has a duty of his own, independent of them, and MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 46 of 116 that duty is to investigate the truth. If no
 prosecutor appears, the Court is obliged through
 its officer, the clerk of the arraigns, to examine
 and cross examine every witness who presents
 himself; and the Judge is to see it done
 effectively, and to act his own part in it. 16. In Bartly vs. State, 55 Nebr 294 : 75
 N.W.832 Harrison, C.J., said: 17. The object of a trial is, first to ascertain
 truth by the light of reason, and then, do justice
 upon the basis of the truth and the Judge is not
 only justified but required to elicit a fact,
 wherever the interest of truth and justice would
 suffer, if he did not. 18. The framers of the Act, in the Report of the
 Select Committee published on 1st July, 1871
 along with the Bill settled by them, observed as
 follows:- 19. The Judge contemplated by Section 165 is
 not a mere umpire at a wit-combat between the
 lawyers for the parties whose only duty is to
 enforce the rules of the game and declare at the
 end of the combat who has won and who has
 lost. He is expected, and indeed it is his duty, to
 explore all avenues open to him in order to
 discover the truth and to that end, question
 witnesses on points which the lawyers for the
 parties have either overlooked or left obscure or
 willfully avoided." 9.17. Rajiv Dhawan vs. Phirtu, order dated 19th
 August, 2009 in MAC.APP.347/2009-

9.17.1. Section 196 of the Motor Vehicles Act provides for
imprisonment upto three months or fine upto Rs.5,000/- or
both for the driver and owner of the uninsured vehicles.
Delhi Police has not been prosecuting the owners and drivers
of uninsured vehicles under Section 196 of the Motor
Vehicles Act. This Court issued Show Cause Notice to the
Commissioner of Police on 19th August, 2009 in pursuance to
which the Delhi Police has regretted the lapse in not
implementing Section 196 of the Motor Vehicles Act and has
issued a Standing Order No.157/2009 for adding Section 196 of the Motor Vehicles Act in all pending investigations and for
filing of supplementary challans in the cases pending trial in
respect of uninsured vehicles. Upon invoking Section 196 of
the Motor Vehicles Act, the owners of many uninsured
vehicles have paid the claim amount to the claimants. 9.18. Head of Department, Air Force Station Amla
 vs. Ram Kumar Giri , judgment dated 12th
 November, 2009 in MAC.APP.No.284/2008-

9.18.1. Air Force Truck killed a person in a motor accident
on 22nd May, 2009. The Tribunal awarded a sum of
Rs.4,74,488/- against which the Air Force filed the appeal
before the High Court raising the plea of sovereign immunity. 9.18.2. The law with respect to sovereign immunity is
well-settled by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in various
judgments. The rule of immunity in favour of Crown based on
common law in the United Kingdom has disappeared from
the land of its birth and it has no validity in our country after
the Constitution. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court has further
held that Article 300 of the Constitution has saved the right
of Parliament to enact such law but no law has been enacted
till now. The Maxim that King can do no wrong or that the
Crown is not answerable in tort has no place in Indian MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 49 of 116 jurisprudence where the power vests, not in the Crown, but
in the Government, which has to act in accordance with the
provisions of the Constitution and would be answerable to
the people for any violation thereof. The Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of Pushpa Thakur v. Union , 1984 ACJ
559, AIR 1986 SC 1199 has held that the doctrine of
sovereign immunity has no application so far as claims for
compensation under the Motor Vehicles Act are concerned.
9.18.3. If the Executive does not follow the certain well
settled law laid down by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, it shall
create confusion in the administration of justice and
undermine the law laid down by the Apex Court and shall
impair the constitutional authority of the Apex Court. The
disobedience of the law laid down by the Court shall also
amount to contempt of Court. 9.18.4. Vide order dated 12th November, 2009, this Court
has directed the learned Attorney General to personally look
into the matter and consider the implication of Government
raising the plea of sovereign immunity in claims under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 despite clear and well settled law
by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court. The learned Attorney
General shall ascertain the number of pending motor
accident claim cases in various Courts/Tribunals where the
plea of sovereign immunity has been raised and shall also
consider the possibility of issuance of a circular/Government
of India directive in respect of all pending motor accident
claim cases as well as cases that may arise in future. 9.19 Yashpal Luthra vs. United India Insurance
 Co. Ltd. , judgment dated 9 th December, 2009
 in MAC.APP.No.176/2009, MANU/DE/3174/
 2009-

9.19.1. A comprehensive/package insurance policy covers
the occupants in a private car and a pillion rider on a two-
wheeler and there is a specific clause in the insurance
policies in this regard. Tariff Advisory Committee (TAC) and MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 50 of 116 Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) are
the statutory authorities to regulate the tariff and terms and
conditions of the insurance policies and there are directions
of both these authorities to cover the occupants in a private
car and a pillion rider on a two-wheeler under
comprehensive/package policy. 9.19.2. Despite the clause in the policy and the directions
of the TAC and IRDA, the insurance companies do not accept
their liability and litigation in this regard is pending in various
Courts all over the country. 9.19.3. This Court examined the officers of United India
Insurance Co. Ltd. as well as TAC and IRDA under Section
165 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. All the officers
admitted the liability of the Insurance Companies in such
matters. The Court also issued notice to all other insurance
companies. On 16.11.2009, IRDA issued fresh circular
reiterating the factual position. IRDA thereafter convened a
meeting dated 26th November, 2009 of all the 17 Insurance
Companies who after deliberations, admitted their liability in
respect of occupants in a private car and a pillion rider on a
two-wheeler under the comprehensive/package policy. All
the Insurance Companies agreed to comply with the Circular
dated 16th November, 2009 issued by IRDA restating the
position relating to the liability of the insurance companies.
All the Insurance Companies further agreed to withdraw the
contrary plea wherever taken before the Motor Accident
Claims Tribunals and to issue instructions to their respective
lawyers and the operating officers within seven days. The
insurance companies further agreed to withdraw all appeals
filed by them before various High Courts raising this plea and
also to concede the liability in respect of appeals filed by the
claimants before the High Courts on the above aspect. The
number of appeals pending before the High Courts have
been agreed to be identified by the Insurance Companies MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 51 of 116 within two weeks and the withdrawal to be done within four
weeks thereafter. 9.19.4. This Court held that where the vehicle is covered
under a comprehensive/package policy, there is no need for
a Motor Accident Claims Tribunal to go into the question
whether the insurance company is liable to compensate for
the death or injury of a pillion rider on a two-wheeler or the
occupants in a private car. In view of the Tariff Advisory
Committee‟s directives and those of the Insurance
Regulatory Development Authority, such a plea was not
permissible and ought not to have been raised as, for
instance, it was done in the case before it. All the Motor
Accident Claims Tribunals have been directed to take note
and ensure that no such plea is allowed to be put forward by
any insurance company. 10. THE „INQUIRY' CONTEMPLATED UNDER SECTION
 168 of MOTOR VEHICLES ACT, 1988

10.1. The inquiry contemplated under Section 168 of the

Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 is different from a trial. The inquiry

contemplated under Section 168 of the Motor Vehicles Act

arises out of a complaint filed by a victim of the road

accident or an AIR filed by the police under Section 158(6) of

the Motor Vehicles Act which is treated as a claim petition

under Section 166(4) of the Motor Vehicles Act. These

provisions are in the nature of social welfare legislation. Most

of the victims of the road accident belong to the lowest

strata of the society and, therefore, duty has been cast upon

the police to report the accident to the Claims Tribunal and

the Claims Tribunal is required by law to treat the Accident

Information Report filed by Police as a claim petition. Upon MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 52 of 116 receipt of report from the police or a claim petition from the

victim, the Claims Tribunal has to ascertain the facts which

are necessary for passing the award. To illustrate, in the case

of death of a victim in a road accident, the Tribunal has to

ascertain the factum of the accident; accident having being

caused due to rash and negligent driving; age, occupation

and income of the deceased; number of legal representatives

and their age. If the claimants have not produced copies of

the record of the criminal case before the Claims Tribunal,

the Claims Tribunal is not absolved from the duty to

ascertain the truth to do justice and the Claims Tribunal can

summon the investigating officer along with the police

record. 11. INVESTIGATION OF MOTOR ACCIDENT CASES BY
 THE POLICE

11.1. Section 158(6) of the Motor Vehicles Act was

incorporated in 1994 and it provides that the SHO of the

Police Station shall send Accident Information Report (AIR) to

the Claims Tribunal within 30 days of the recording of the FIR

and a copy to the concerned Insurance Company. The object

of Section 158 (6) of the Motor Vehicles Act is that the police

is the first agency to take cognizance of the accident and it

has the entire evidence required for initiating the

proceedings for compensation. 11.2. During the course of hearing of Rajesh Tyagi vs.

Jaibir Singh, FAO No.842/2003 on 21st April, 2009, it was

noticed that Delhi Police was not implementing Section MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 53 of 116 158(6) of the Motor Vehicles Act despite directions passed by

the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in General Insurance Council

vs. State of Andhra Pradesh , AIR 2007 SC 2696. Notice

was, therefore, issued to the Commissioner of Police to place

on record the status on implementation of Section 158(6) of

the Motor Vehicles Act along with the data of compliance for

the last 22 months from the date of the judgment of the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court. Directions were also given to the

Claims Tribunals to place on record the compliance of Section 166(4) which provides that the Claims Tribunals shall

treat the report forwarded to it under Section 158(6) as an

application for compensation. 11.3. On 18th May, 2009, the DCP (Hqrs.) of Delhi Police filed

an affidavit stating that 15,370 accidents took place during

July, 2007 to April, 2009 and the information in the

prescribed proforma under Section 158(6) of the Motor

Vehicles Act, 1988 has been sent to the Motor Accident

Claims Tribunals. The Registrar (Appellate) of the High Court

also filed a report received from the Motor Accident Claims

Tribunals in which it was stated that no report has been

received by the Claims Tribunals from Delhi Police under Section 158(6) of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. In view of

the contradictory stand taken by the Delhi Police and the

Claims Tribunals, the Delhi Police was directed to produce

the documents relating to the compliance of Section 158(6) of the Motor Vehicles Act with respect to eleven Police MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 54 of 116 Stations on 28th May, 2009. 11.4. On 28th May, 2009, Dy. Commissioner of Police (Hqrs.)

of Delhi Police admitted non-compliance of Section 158(6) and filing of incorrect affidavit before the High Court

whereupon proceedings for contempt of Court were initiated

against DCP (Hqrs.). DCP (Hqrs.) tendered unconditional

apology and sought permission to withdraw the incorrect

affidavit. Delhi Police agreed to strictly follow the law in

future and consider the suggestions for streamlining the

motor accident cases. 11.5. On 8th June, 2009, Delhi Police filed an undertaking to

start the following initiatives to implement Section 158(6) of

the Motor Vehicles Act:- 11.5.7 Claims Tribunal Monitoring Cell headed by
 Inspector to be set up in each District to monitor
 delivery of AIR (Form 54) in time. 11.5.8 Monthly meeting of ACsP, PG Cell, In-charge
 of Claims Tribunal Monitoring Cells with the Claims
 Tribunals. 11.5.9 Appointment of Naib Court (a police officer)
 by District DCsP with the Claims Tribunals. 11.5.10 Review of pendency of AIR (Forms 54) by
 District DCsP in weekly law and order meeting. 11.5.11 Placement of AIR (Form 54) on the website
 so that it can be downloaded by the Claims Tribunals,
 Insurance Companies and claimants. 11.5.12 Installation of checklist boards in SHOs
 rooms. 11.5.13 Establishment of District Cells as pilot project in
 three districts. 11.6. This Court passed following directions to Delhi
 Police on 8th June, 2009:- (ii) The Accident Information Report shall
 be accompanied by the attested copies
 of the FIR, site plan, photographs,
 registration cover, driving licence,
 insurance policy, permit and fitness
 certificate of the offending vehicle. MLC and Post - mortem report shall be
 submitted as soon as they are
 received. If any of the aforesaid
 information or document is not
 available at the time of submitting the
 AIR, the same may be submitted as
 soon as the same is received. (iii) Simultaneously upon filing of AIR by
 the SHO with the Claims Tribunal, the
 copy of the AIR be furnished to the
 Insurance Company along with the
 aforesaid documents." 11.7. With respect to the accidents during the period 1994-

2009, Delhi Police has been directed vide order dated 5th

November, 2009 to carry out the following action:- The compliance of this order shall be done by Delhi
 Police in a phased manner. 11.7.6. In the event of non-compliance of this order by
 Delhi Police, the concerned Tribunal shall bring the
 same to the notice of the ACP concerned in the monthly
 meeting between Claims Tribunals and the ACsP in
 terms of order dated 8th June, 2009. 12. SUBMISSIONS OF THE LEARNED AMICUS CURIAE

 Dr. Arun Mohan, the learned amicus curiae has, based

on his research, made following submissions on the scope of

"Inquiry" under Sections 168 and 169 of the Motor Vehicles

Act, 1988:- 12.3. The first, in relation to criminal law also
 called Accusatorial, is to be found in England (on which
 pattern our legal system is based), USA, Canada and
 Australia. 12.4. The second, Inquisitorial, is found in the
 Continental Europe. 12.5. In broad terms, an Adversarial system refers
 to the common law system of conducting proceedings MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 58 of 116 in which the parties, and not the Judge, have the
 primary responsibility for defining the issues in dispute
 and for investigating and adjudicating the dispute. 12.6. In the Adversarial system, two or more
 opposing parties gather evidence and present the
 evidence and their arguments to the Judge. The Judge
 knows nothing of the litigation until the parties present
 their cases to him as the decision maker. 12.7. The term „Inquisitorial‟ refers to civil code
 systems in which the Judge has such primary
 responsibility. „Inquisitorial‟ also connotes an Inquiry
 where the decision maker investigates a matter. 12.8. In the Inquisitorial system, the presiding
 Judge is not a passive recipient of information. Rather,
 the presiding Judge is primarily responsible for
 supervising the gathering of the evidence necessary to
 resolve the case. He actively steers the search for
 evidence and questions the witnesses, including the
 respondent or defendant. The lawyers play a more
 passive role, suggesting routes of Inquiry for the
 presiding Judge and following the Judge‟s questioning
 with questioning of their own. 12.9. An Inquisitorial system is a legal system
 where the Court or a part of the Court is actively
 involved in determining the facts of the case, as
 opposed to an Adversarial system where the role of the
 Court is solely that of an impartial referee between
 parties. Inquisitorial systems are used in some
 countries with civil legal systems as opposed to
 common law systems. 12.10. The Court procedures in an Inquisitorial
 system vary from country to country. 12.11. Even countries using common law, including
 the United States, may use an Inquisitorial system for
 summary hearings in the case of misdemeanors such
 as minor traffic violations. 12.12. In some jurisdictions, the trial Judge may
 participate in the fact-finding Inquiry by questioning
 witnesses even in Adversarial proceedings. 12.13. Even in our criminal trials which are purely
 Adversarial (or Accusatorial), the recent trend has been
 for a more active role for the Judge. 12.14. The goal of both the Adversarial system and
 the Inquisitorial system is to find the truth. But the
 Adversarial system seeks the truth by pitting the
 parties against each other in the hope that competition
 will reveal it, whereas the Inquisitorial system seeks the
 truth by questioning those most familiar with the
 events in dispute. The Adversarial system places a
 premium on the individual rights of the accused,
 whereas the Inquisitorial system places the rights of the
 accused secondary to the search for truth. 12.15. The relative merits and demerits of
 Adversarial systems have been extensively debated. 12.16. The emphasis on „winning at all costs‟
 without commensurate concern for truth-seeking
 dismays some citizens, and a growing number are
 demanding reforms in the legal system. 12.17. The Adversarial system has severe critics as
 well as staunch defenders. The Courtroom is seen as a
 battleground or playing field where contestants vie for
 victory. 12.18. Although many concede that the Adversary
 system is imperfect and that it may be subject to abuse
 and manipulation, many still believe that, by giving all
 parties and their advocates an opportunity to present
 evidence and arguments before an impartial Judge, it
 promotes a free and pluralistic society with the best
 available means of settling disputes. 12.19. The Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 is a Code
 which embodies many rules of procedure which were
 drawn from common law. 12.20. Section 2(g) of the Criminal Procedure Code
 [1 of 1974] defines „inquiry‟ as being every inquiry,
 other than a trial, conducted under that Code by a
 Magistrate or Court. The Cr.P.C . being primarily
 Accusatorial, the term „inquiry‟ is used more as a
 forerunner to a trial. Though the term Inquiry has been MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 60 of 116 used also for proceedings which culminate in restraints
 or other action, but not punishment. 12.21. History of the statutory provision : - The
 phrase „hold an inquiry‟ followed by „to determine‟ the
 „amount‟ as a final adjudication in contradistinction to
 an Inquiry into facts so as to recommend some other
 action or trial as it appears in Section 168(1) of Motor
 Vehicles Act, 1988 has the following legislative history:-  These provisions (Sections 110A to 110F) were
 also inserted (with some changes) by
 Amendment Act, [35 of 1977] into The Inland
 Vessels Act [1 of 1917]. 12.22. The other statutes in which the inquiry is
 contemplated are as under:- 12.25. An Inquiry contemplated by Section 168(1) of Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 is of this type. It is a
 different matter that in practice, before the Claims
 Tribunals, the typical civil Court mindset - of pure
 Adversarial - has dominated and the real purpose has
 been lost. 12.26. The statutory provision is as clear in its
 wording as it could be. It confers complete powers
 upon the Presiding Officer of the Claims Tribunal to
 follow such summary procedures as he thinks fit.
 Moreover, as noted above, it is an Inquiry as distinct
 from a trial. Unfortunately, Courts have not viewed the
 matter in its correct perspective. 12.27. As far as the Claims Tribunal is concerned, it
 is a lean towards something appropriate which can be
 loosely called a mix of Inquisitorial and Adversarial
 procedures which are summary and, more importantly,
 tailored to the subject. Such tailoring being carried out
 in exercise of the statutory edict - follow such summary
 procedure as it (the Presiding Officer / Claims Tribunal)
 thinks fit. 12.28. The procedure has always been adapted to
 the needs of the jurisdiction which is being exercised. 12.29. Sections 168 and 169 of the Motor Vehicles
 Act, 1988 does not use the word „trial‟, but uses the
 word „inquiry‟ and that too a „summary‟ one. It will
 need to be a little more detailed - so as to make the
 right to be heard meaningful - but the overall objective
 to determine just and fair compensation remains
 paramount, in which case procedure can be quite short
 and need not replicate the typical civil Court trial. 12.30. The statute has allowed the Claims Tribunals
 to follow such summary procedure as it thinks fit,
 subject to any rules. This really means that a far wider
 discretion to evolve procedure has been given to the
 Claims Tribunal than has been given to the civil Court.
 However, in following the procedure, Claims Tribunal
 cannot ignore the principles of Natural Justice. The
 Claims Tribunal has to render a judgment which on
 facts approximates best with what transpired and on MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 63 of 116 law shows a fair and correct application to the facts as
 are admitted or as (the disputed ones) are found. 12.31. In our system of jurisprudence, what should
 be the depth of procedure is a question that must be
 kept uppermost in the judicial mind. Too shallow and
 too summary is as wrong as having one so deep,
 detailed and in-depth that they consume too long a
 time and defeat the purpose. 12.32. Despite the elapse of over two decades of
 the new Act plus 25 years of the old Act, one has not
 seen (except in the recent past) the conceiving and
 following - as a part of „as it thinks fit‟ - of such
 summary procedure as would be efficient and effective.
 In my respectful submission, it therefore falls upon the
 Hon‟ble High Court to exercise its jurisdiction to
 conceive and detail such procedure, and do so as part
 of issuing a guideline judgment. 12.33. Most of that which has to be proved before
 or considered by the Claims Tribunal is something that: 12.34. Going into this further is necessary, because
 there are many poor claimants where after years of
 waiting, the Claims Tribunal has passed an order (to the
 effect) the claimants have failed to prove and therefore
 the petition is dismissed. The purpose of the statute is
 social purpose as the statute uses the word (and
 rightly) inquiry. It does not use the word „trial‟. 12.35. What does this „inquiry‟ mean? The first is
 the Proportionality; and the second is Tailoring of
 procedures. For the first, overspeeding by 10 kmph,
 jumping of a traffic light and the other is a terrorist act
 where it would be a sentence to death. One can be
 short and swift and the other will have to be
 comprehensive. Second, to be able to serve its larger
 purpose, i.e. hand out efficient and fair justice, a
 procedure must always be tailored to the subject (or MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 64 of 116 offence). This way, it yields: (1) more accurate justice
 at minimal costs in terms of money; and (2) minimal
 time consumption. 12.36. The result is that the deprivation in that one
 year will defeat justice. It will not apply the balm at a
 point of time by when the wound can heal and to offer
 the balm when the wound would have become chronic
 and not heal, is no justice. If medical attention to the
 injured in accident needs to must begin well within one
 hour, the legal attention must also conclude well within
 one year. 12.37. On the question of material facts, the facts
 in issue and evidentiary facts, the following excerpts
 from „Justice Courts and Delays‟ (Chapter 6 Topic 4 at
 page 453 - paras 14 and 15) are relevant:- 12.38. There is a duty of the insurance company.
 Let us - by picking up a hundred decided cases from
 the Claims Tribunal - ask ourselves as to that which
 was adduced as evidence: How much of it was really
 necessary? How much of it was missing? and, more
 importantly, how much could have been received as
 information at the initial stage? and then, after giving
 an opportunity to the insurance company to ascertain
 and verify (and not simply deny) can be treated as
 evidence sufficient for the purposes of inquiry. And, what was that which could not have been collected
 at the time of investigation and presented as a package
 to the Claims Tribunal, and required to could not be
 adduced as evidence at the trial or Inquiry before the
 Claims Tribunal (assuming it to be a trial). These questions have to be split as short pointed
 questions which are placed within a chain of facts
 where the bulk - hopefully - has been identified and is
 not disputed. Thus, assuming 20 facts that were
 necessary to decide the case, at least 15 (or more) are
 identified and then admitted in the chain of facts. Of
 the remaining five (or less) also, the scope should be
 narrow and the onus correctly placed. To explain the pointed or the narrow range of the issue,
 and we go here in relation to the income, to have an
 issue which reads: has to be placed on the claimant, the insurance
 company or even the police. However, this is not
 something which is based on the personal knowledge of
 the police, but on record and papers that were
 collected by them during the course of investigation. All documents in power and possession of the parties
 which are relevant to the controversy should be
 produced and the affidavit of discovery and production
 of documents (on the lines of Form No.5 Appendix C to
 the Code) should be filed (or ordered) in routine. This
 responsibility is greater if the party is an MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 67 of 116 instrumentality of the State as many of the insurance
 companies are. Insofar as the insurance companies in the private sector
 are concerned by reason of their placement and their
 duties towards society generally, in this case the
 principle would equally apply to the insurance
 companies in the private sector. If the Presiding Officer of the Claims Tribunal senses
 that all documents or a particular document or a copy
 of the record has not been produced, he can always
 make an order directing discovery and production of
 documents on affidavit by way of special discovery
 (which is discovery relating to a particular document or
 a class of documents or copy/ies of record) or a general
 discovery of documents relating to the controversy. 12.40. The aforesaid submissions of the amicus
 curiae have been noted verbatim with a view to help
 generate ideas in order to develop more efficient
 procedures and practices. Number of other
 submissions made by the amicus curiae have been
 accepted, but have not been noted above for sake of
 brevity. 13. PRINCIPLES APPLICABLE TO INQUIRY UNDER
 SECTIONS 168 AND 169 OF THE MOTOR VEHICLES
 ACT, 1988

 With respect to the nature of inquiry, this Court accepts

the following principles to be applicable to the inquiry under Sections 168 and 169 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988:- There have been two factors. The first is to do greater
 justice by removing imbalance between the two parties
 (and their lawyers); and the second is to more
 efficiently manage the cases and bring about efficiency

 13.4. The proceedings before the Claims Tribunal
 are more of an Inquiry rather than an Adversarial trial.
 In other words, it is not that the claimant has to allege
 everything which the insurance can (without bothering
 to ascertain the facts) deny everything and then the
 Court expects proof of one and every allegation made
 in the claim petition. 13.5. Keeping in view the wording of the statute,
 the use of the phrase „hold an inquiry‟ as also
 particularly the absence of the word „trial‟ and; the
 larger purpose of the statute as demonstrated by the
 Statement of Objects and Reasons; observation into
 what has gone on; the type of the claimants; the type
 of the issues; and the need to bring about efficiency,
 procedure as are tailored to the subject has to be
 evolved by the Claims Tribunal. 13.6. The nature of the claims before the Claims
 Tribunal do not vary as widely as they do before a Civil
 Court, and there is an element of stereotype in them. 13.7. The facts which are to be ascertained are
 usually known and it is to be found out whether those
 facts exist or do not exist. It is only in that sense that
 an Inquiry is to be carried out. 13.8. Most of these facts are such which are to be
 proved by documents, generally as copies of records. If
 these are listed and summoned so that they are before
 the Claims Tribunal, it can make a world of a difference. 13.9. There is a distinction between proof of a
 document and what the document proves. Some of the
 documents can be taken at their face value. In fact,
 the onus is reversed so that the evidence in proof can
 be asked only if there is specific denial. The
 photocopies of documents or entries from the Transport
 Department can be presumed as correct leaving the
 onus to disprove on one who disputes it. Every
 document produced does not require a proof as if it
 were an unregistered Will leaving a large estate to an
 outsider. 13.10. If an allegation is denied, the respondent
 must state his reasons for the denial and if necessary,
 put forward his own version of events. Subject to
 certain exceptions, the general rule is that if a
 defendant fails to deal with an allegation, it is to be
 taken as an admission. 13.11. If following this procedure which is
 generally collection of documents, a case appears to
 be one which can be disposed of at the first hearing,
 it should be so disposed of. There can, however, be
 cases where there is need for further inquiry. But
 that will have to depend upon whether a sufficient
 defence has been raised. 13.12. If the case needs further inquiry, the Court
 may frame issues. Issues help as a signpost to how the
 matter has to be proceeded with. They are signposts of
 topics (facts). However, before the issues, if a
 prefatory note on the facts which are not in dispute or
 not sufficiently in dispute or facts that can be taken
 judicial notice of, is made, the controversy stands
 narrowed down, the issues are more accurately framed
 and serve a greater purpose. 13.13. The present practice of framing the issues in
 a wide form calls for a change. Instead, what the Claims
 Tribunals as a part of „following such procedures as it
 thinks fit‟ should do is to first go through the file and
 identify: (i) the chain of material facts and events (most
 of which are ordinarily not disputed); (ii) the scope of
 defences that are permissible; (iii) the factual questions
 that survive for decision; (iv) the missing links, and (v)
 the points of law which will need application to the facts
 and determination. After putting down a page or two
 of written material to depict the aforesaid, and also MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 70 of 116 narrow down the controversy, frame pointed issues
 which bring out the factual and legal questions. The
 onus of the sub-issues has to be more correctly placed.
 The defence expected has to be not a mere denial but a
 positive one after the Respondents have investigated.
 The scope of the issues when framed could be narrow
 and not wide. 13.14. It is not always that if issues have been
 framed, further evidence is required. The matter can
 be disposed of after hearing the arguments based on
 the material on record or some evidence on a specific
 point may be called for. In any inquiry, there is also a
 duty of the Court to see that the evidence which could
 have been brought is brought so that justice is done. A
 template for a judgment keeping in view the various
 types of cases that come, can be developed by Claims
 Tribunal in consultation with each other and then slowly
 perfected over time. 13.15. For these issues, a form which is more of a
 checklist can be developed and the Claims Tribunal can
 simply correlate the claim, the response and the
 material on record and then come to a conclusion
 whether any issue arises or is to be treated as an
 admitted fact or what could the pointed issue that is to
 be framed. 13.16. These principles may be kept in mind by the
 Claims Tribunals while dealing with the motor accident
 claim cases. 14. SUMMARY OF PROCEDURES

 The procedure for investigation of motor accident claim

cases by the police under Section 158(6) of the Motor

Vehicles Act and the inquiry by the Claims Tribunal under Sections 166(4) , 168 and 169 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988

read with the Delhi Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal Rules,

2008 in terms of the aforesaid directions issued by the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court and this Court is summarized as

under:- witnesses/bystanders. 14.2. The Investigating Officer shall intimate the
 accident to Accident Claims Tribunal within
 48 hours of the accident. 14.3. If the particulars of insurance are available,
 the intimation of the accident shall also be
 given to the concerned Insurance Company
 of the offending vehicle. 14.4. The particulars of the accident shall also be
 uploaded on the website of Delhi Police. 14.5. Immediately upon receipt of intimation, the
 Insurance Company shall appoint a
 Designated Officer for each case. The
 Designated Officer shall be responsible for
 dealing/processing of that case and for
 taking decision for the amount of
 compensation payable in accordance with
 law after the Accident Information Report by
 the police. 14.6. The Investigating Officer shall collect the
 relevant evidence relating to the accident as
 well as computation of compensation. 14.7. The Investigating Officer shall file the
 Accident Information Report with the Claims
 Tribunal within 30 days of the accident with
 copy to the Insurance Company and the
 claimant. 14.8. The Accident Information Report shall be
 accompanied by certified copies of the FIR,
 site plan, photographs, registration cover,
 driving licence, Insurance policy, permit,
 MLC, post-mortem report, challan and the
 documents relating to the proof of age,
 occupation, income and the number of legal
 representatives and their age in death case
 and proof of injuries and expenditure
 incurred by the insured in injury cases. 14.9. Where the Investigating Officer is unable to
 complete the investigation of the case within
 30 days for reasons beyond his control, such
 as cases of hit and run accidents, cases
 where the parties reside outside the
 jurisdiction of the Court cases, where the
 driving licence is issued outside the
 jurisdiction of the Court, or where the victim
 has suffered grievous injuries and is
 undergoing treatment, the Investigating
 Officer shall approach the Claims Tribunal
 for extension of time whereupon the Claims
 Tribunal shall suitably extend the time in the
 facts of each case. 14.10. The Investigating Officer shall produce the
 driver, owner, claimant and eye-witnesses
 before the Claims Tribunals along with the
 Accident Information Report. However, if the
 Police is unable to produce the owner,
 driver, clamant and eye-witnesses before
 the Claims Tribunal on the first date of
 hearing for the reasons beyond its control,
 the Claims Tribunal shall issue notice to
 them to be served through the Investigating
 Officer for a date for appearance not later
 than 30 days. The Investigating Officer shall
 give an advance notice to the concerned
 Insurance Company about the date of filing
 of the Accident Information Report before
 the Claims Tribunal so that the nominated
 counsel for the Insurance Company can
 remain present on the first date of hearing
 before the Claims Tribunal. 14.11. The police shall follow the Manual prepared
 by them for investigation of motor accident
 claim cases and filed in the case of Rajesh
 Tyagi vs. Jaibir Singh (supra). The
 relevant instructions contained in the Police
 Manual and the standing order No.157/2008
 at page Nos.14 to 21 and the check list
 prepared by the police in this regard are
 attached to this order for ready reference of
 the Claims Tribunal. 14.12. The Investigating Officer shall also comply
 with the directions given by this Court in Rajesh Tyagi vs. Jaibir Singh ( supra) and
 Abdul Subhan vs. State (NCT of Delhi )
 (supra). The checklist prepared by the MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 73 of 116 police shall be attached to the Accident
 Information Report. 14.13. The Claims Tribunals shall examine whether
 the Accident Information Report is complete
 in all respects and shall pass appropriate
 order in this regard. If the Accident
 Information Report is not complete in any
 particular respect, the Claims Tribunal shall
 direct the Investigating Officer to complete
 the same and shall fix a date for the said
 completion. 14.14. The Claims Tribunals shall treat the Accident
 Information Report filed by the Investigating
 Officer as a claim petition under Section
 166(4) of the Motor Vehicles Act. However,
 where the Police is unable to produce the
 claimants on the first date of hearing, the
 Claims Tribunal shall initially register the
 Accident Information Report as a
 miscellaneous application which shall be
 registered as a main claim petition after the
 appearance of the claimants. 14.15. The Claims Tribunal shall list the
 miscellaneous Accident Information Report
 (AIR) for preliminary hearing to enable the
 police to notify such date to the
 victim/family of the victim, owner, driver and
 insurer of the vehicle involved in the
 accident. 14.16. After the appearance of the claimants, the
 miscellaneous petition shall be converted
 and registered as a claim petition. Where
 the claimant(s) have filed a separate claim
 petition, the AIR shall be tagged to the claim
 petition. If no independent claim has been
 preferred, the Claims Tribunal shall call upon
 the claimant to submit statement of facts
 regarding compensation in Form „G‟ along
 with documents mentioned in Rule 8 of the
 Rules. 14.17. The Claims Tribunal shall also inquire and
 satisfy itself that the AIR relates to real
 accident and that is not the result of any
 collusion/fabrication. 14.18. The notice to the claimant, owner, driver and
 eye-witness shall be served through the
 Investigating Officer of the police. The
 notice to the Insurance Company shall be
 served through the nominated counsel of
 each company. 14.19. The Claims Tribunal may examine the
 claimant on oath to elucidate the material
 information (Rule 10). 14.20. The Claims Tribunal may visit the site of the
 accident for local investigation but in such
 event, must prepare a brief memorandum of
 facts observed, making it part of the record
 (Rule 15). 14.21. The Claims Tribunal may require production
 of the vehicle involved in the accident for
 inspection (Rule 16)

 14.22. The Claims Tribunal may summarily examine
 the Investigating Officer of the police, the
 eye-witness or any person likely to be able
 to give information relating to such case,
 whether such person has been or is to be
 called as a witness in the case or not and
 whether any or all of the parties are present
 or not. The notice to the eye-witness be
 sent through the police (Rule 17). 14.23. The Claims Tribunal may direct the Medical
 Officer or the Board of Medical Officers to
 examine the injured and give opinion
 indicating the degree and extent of
 disability, if any suffered within 15 days of
 receipt of direction (Rule 18). 14.24. The Claims Tribunal shall obtain
 supplementary information and documents,
 which may be found necessary from the
 police, medical and other authorities (Rule 25). 14.25. If the Claims Tribunal finds that the claim
 petition cannot be disposed of at one
 hearing, it shall record the reasons which
 necessitate the adjournment (Rule 29). 14.26. The designated officer of the Insurance
 company appointed within 10 days of receipt
 of intimation of the claim, shall take a MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 75 of 116 reasoned decision with respect to the
 compensation payable in accordance with
 law to the claimant within 30 days of the
 receipt of the Accident Information Report
 and shall submit the same with the Claims
 Tribunal. 14.27. If there is no defence under Section 149 of
 the Motor Vehicles Act, 1998, the Claims
 Tribunal may direct the Insurance
 companies to deposit the admitted amount
 according to their computation with the
 Claims Tribunal following the principles of Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of Civil
 Procedure . The Tribunal shall by a summary
 inquiry ascertain the dependent family
 members/legal heirs. The jurisdictional
 police shall also enquire and submit the
 names of the dependent legal heirs. 14.28. With respect to the pending cases relating to
 Motor Accident Claims, all the Insurance
 Companies shall appoint a designated
 competent officer responsible for processing
 of each case within 10 days and such officer
 shall process the claim within 30 days and
 pass a reasoned decision/order in writing
 about the amount payable in accordance
 with law. The decision of the designated
 officer along with the report of the
 Investigator shall be filed before the learned
 Tribunal within 20 days of the date of the
 decision of the designated officer. 14.29. The Tribunal shall categorize the claim cases
 registered, into those where the insurer
 disputes liability and those where the insurer
 does not dispute the liability. Wherever the
 insurer does not dispute the liability under
 the policy, the Tribunal shall make an
 endeavour to determine the compensation
 amount by a summary inquiry or refer the
 matter to the Lok Adalat for settlement, so
 as to dispose of the claim petition itself,
 within a time frame not exceeding six
 months from the date of registration of the
 claim petition. Where the insurer disputes
 the liability, the Claims Tribunal shall frame
 the issues. 14.30. Before or at the time of passing of the
 award, the Claims Tribunals shall examine MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 76 of 116 the claimants to ascertain their financial
 condition and needs and shall pass an order
 with regard to their share, mode of
 disbursement, amount to be kept in fixed
 deposit and period of fixed deposit according
 to the financial condition of the claimants. (It
 has been noticed that, in many cases, the
 Tribunals have been passing the standard
 orders of disbursement and fixed deposits
 without examining the financial condition
 and needs of the claimants and the poor
 victims are left at the mercy of either
 accepting the order or again engaging the
 counsel to approach the Court for
 modification). 14.31. At the time of examining the Claimants, the
 Claims Tribunals shall also ascertain the
 complete address of the claimants as well as
 their counsel. In the award, the Claims
 Tribunals shall specifically direct the
 Insurance company and/or the owner/driver,
 as the case may be, to deposit the award
 amount with the Tribunal and/or the Bank
 along with the interest upto the date of
 notice of deposit to the claimants with a
 copy to their counsel. The names and
 addresses of the claimants and their counsel
 for issuance of notice of deposit be
 mentioned in the award. 14.32. If the award amount has been directed to be
 deposited by the Insurance Company with
 the bank, copy of the award be sent to the
 Nodal Officer of the Bank along with the
 Court stamped copy of the photographs and
 signatures of the claimants. The
 photographs and signatures of the claimants
 be taken at the time of examining them
 before or at the time of passing the award.
 Two sets of photographs and signatures
 should be taken, out of which one set should
 be sent to the Nodal Officer of the Bank
 along with the copy of the award and the
 second set should be retained in the Court
 record for future reference and/or any
 irregularity being pointed out. (The
 forwarding of the Court stamped
 photographs and the signatures of the
 claimants would ensure that no attempt is
 made to defraud the system). If possible, the
 proof of residence and the details of the MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 77 of 116 Bank Account should also be collected from
 the claimant at the time of examining them
 and one stamped set of the same should
 also be forwarded to the Bank and the
 second set be retained in the Court record. 14.33. In the award, the Claims Tribunals shall
 specifically direct the Insurance company
 and/or the owner/driver, as the case may be,
 to deposit the award amount with the
 Tribunal and/or the Bank along with the
 interest upto the date of notice of deposit to
 the claimants with a copy to their counsel.
 The names and addresses of the claimants
 and their counsel for issuance of notice of
 deposit be mentioned in the award. 14.34. The Claims Tribunal shall fix a date for
 reporting compliance in the award itself. The
 Claims Tribunals shall also direct the
 Insurance Company and/or driver or owner
 to place on record the proof of deposit of the
 award amount, the notice of deposit and the
 calculation of interest on the date fixed.
 Upon such proof being filed, the Claims
 Tribunal shall ensure that the interest upto
 date of notice of deposit has been deposited
 by all concerned. 14.35. If the award amount is not deposited within
 the time provided in the award, the Claims
 Tribunals shall proceed to recover/execute
 the award in terms of the directions of this
 Court in the case of New India Assurance
 Company Ltd. Vs. Kashmiri Lal (supra). 14.36. The Claims Tribunal shall consider keeping
 the award amount in fixed deposit in a
 phased manner depending upon the
 financial status and financial needs of the
 claimants. For example, if a sum of
 Rs.5,50,000/- has been awarded to the
 claimants, Rs.50,000/- may be released
 immediately and the remaining amount of
 Rs.5,00,000/- may be kept in 10 fixed
 deposits of Rs.50,000/- each for a periods of
 six months, one year, one and a half years,
 two years and so on till five years or one
 year, two years, three years and so on till
 ten years. 14.37. The following conditions may be imposed in
 respect of the fixed deposit:- 14.40. In respect of pending cheques, the Claims
 Tribunal shall forthwith issue the notice of
 deposit to the claimants as well as their
 counsels. 14.41. In respect of the expired cheques, the
 Claims Tribunal shall also forthwith issue
 notice to the Insurance Companies with
 direction to deposit fresh cheques within 30
 days. 14.42. Where the vehicle is not insured, the Claims
 Tribunal shall ensure that the police has
 prosecuted the owner/driver of the offending
 vehicle under Section 196 of the Motor
 Vehicles Act by calling report from the
 Police. The Claims Tribunal shall also call for
 a report from concerned Metropolitan
 Magistrate to find out whether the owner of
 the offending vehicle has given security for
 satisfaction of the award or the vehicle has
 been sold in terms of Rule 6 of Delhi Motor
 Accidents Claims Tribunal Rules, 2008. The
 Claims Tribunal may also direct the owner
 and driver of the offending vehicle to furnish
 their affidavit of assets and income in Form-
 16A, Apprendix-E under Order XXI Rule 41(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure and sufficient
 security under Order XXXVIII Rule 2 of the
 Code of Civil Procedure . 14.43. Where the Insurance Company has
 computed the compensation in accordance
 with law without any delay, has deposited
 the admitted amount and has contested the
 case only with respect to the disputed
 amount or has bonafide defence, the
 interest should be awarded according to MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 80 of 116 bank rates. However, where the Insurance
 Company has failed to discharge its
 obligations or acted capriciously or
 arbitrarily or negligent exercise or non-
 exercise of power, which has resulted in
 harassment and mental suffering to the
 claimant, the Claims Tribunal may consider
 awarding higher interest in terms of the
 judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Ghaziabad Development Authority vs.
 Balbir Singh, II (2004) CPJ 12 (SC). 14.44. Wherever the lawyer - client agreement is
 filed before or at the time of final hearing of
 the case, the cost equivalent to the
 reasonable fee may be awarded and the
 Insurance Companies be directed to deposit
 the said cost by means of a separate cheque
 in the name of the claimant‟s counsel to be
 deposited with the Bank along with the
 award amount to be released by the Bank
 directly to the counsel. 14.45. Many Tribunals instead of holding an inquiry
 into the claim by following suitable summary
 procedure, as mandated by Sections 168 and 169 of the Act, tend to conduct motor
 accident cases like regular civil suits. This
 should be avoided. The Tribunal shall take
 an active role in deciding and expeditious
 disposal of the applications for
 compensation and make effective use of Section 165 of the Evidence Act, 1872, to
 determine the just compensation. 14.46. The Claims Tribunal shall follow the latest
 precedents rendered on the subject as also
 principles relating to the nature of inquiry
 mentioned in paras 9 and 13 above. 14.47. While conducting the inquiry, the Claims
 Tribunal must be on guard against fanciful or
 false claims. The victims may deserve
 sympathy, but the matter has to be
 approached and decided according to law.
 Incidence of exaggerated or false claims has
 to be deftly dealt with. In appropriate cases,
 the Claims Tribunal should not hesitate to
 lodge a complaint under Section 340 Cr.P.C.
 Similarly, the Insurance Company which puts
 forward an evasive or irresponsible defence
 is liable to be burdened with costs, but MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 81 of 116 where the defence is found to be false,
 similar action ought to be taken against
 them. In order to ensure efficiency of
 procedures and accuracy of the result
 (determination of the amount), purity in the
 information received by the Claims Tribunal
 and veracity of the documents that are
 placed before the Tribunal, whatever be the
 source must be brought about. 14.48. The aforesaid observations are without
 prejudice to the discretion of every Tribunal
 to follow such summary procedure as it
 deems fit as provided under Section 169 of
 the Act. 15. CHECKLIST FOR THE CLAIMS TRIBUNALS

 15.1. Keeping in view the type of facts generally
 involved; the facts, the sub-evidentiary
 facts; and which are disputed (and therefore
 in issue); the evidentiary facts; the
 documents which prove (or disprove) the
 facts; if a format more of a „checklist‟ needs
 to be developed and made available to the
 everyone concerned, it will be a help to the
 claimant, to the lawyers and to the Court. 15.2. This is not to be confused with a „form‟ for
 the application as provided by the Rules. It
 will act like a series of sign posts to help call
 for the necessary information and then
 proceed with the matter. The Claims
 Tribunal may use the „checklist‟ (as also its
 own experience) to list those facts and
 documents which will help turn down a false
 or exaggerated claim and also facilitate the
 proof and adjudication of a just claim against
 a brick-wall of untenable defences often put
 forward by the Respondents with the hope
 that the case would be dismissed or the
 claimant would get tired and settle for less.
 A checklist can be prepared by the Claims
 Tribunals which can be periodically updated.
 The office of the senior-most Claims Tribunal
 should prepare a checklist which can be
 circulated with all the Presiding Officers and MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 82 of 116 at a monthly meeting, they can jointly
 consider what all amendments and additions
 are to be made to it. Such a list can then be
 submitted to the High Court for its scrutiny. 15.3. Developing a form-cum-checklist is a
 specialized task but a beginning has to be
 made. As the first draft, a format-cum-
 checklist has been prepared and is annexed
 to this judgment as Annexure I, in the hope
 and anticipation that this will act as
 discussion paper for Presiding Officers of the
 Claims Tribunals and the lawyers to
 add/amend in order to prepare what would
 be a fine form. It is expected that the
 Presiding Officers of the Motor Accident
 Tribunals will meet periodically and based on
 their daily experience, discuss the facts,
 evidentiary facts, sub-evidentiary facts and
 documents; the existence and/or non- existence of which enables the Tribunal to
 draw a right inference for making an
 accurate determination. It may take a few
 months for a fine form to be finalized. After
 this form-cum-checklist is perfected, it can
 be translated into Hindi and other languages
 for guidance of the claimants so that they do
 not miss out on giving the information and
 documents and are also told that a
 comprehensive format will ensure that
 fanciful or false claims do not succeed. 16. CLAIMS INVESTIGATION MANUAL

16.1. The Delhi Police has issued Standing Order

No.157/2008 with respect to the investigation of road

accident cases on 14th August, 2008. The Delhi Police has

also prepared a Manual for investigation of motor accident

cases in pursuance to the directions issued by this Court in

the case of Rajesh Tyagi vs. Jaibir Singh ,

FAO.No.842/2003. The Delhi Police has also compiled a MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 83 of 116 check list for investigation of the accident cases. The police

shall follow the same while investigating the motor accident

cases. The copies of the operative portion of the Manual,

Standing Order and the checklist of Delhi Police are attached

to this order as Annexures II, III & IV respectively for ready

reference by the Claims Tribunals. 17. THE NEED TO BRING ABOUT EFFICIENCIES

17.1. The need to banish delays and bring about efficiencies

in the adjudicative process, whether inquisitorial or

adversarial, cannot be disputed. To achieve this however it

needs more than a mere wish. Fortunately, the statute

empowers the Tribunal, but ingrained notions of Civil Court

mindset and adherence to tradition has stifled the growth

and evolution of practice and procedures, leading thereby to

long delays and inefficiencies, or simply injustice. It is this as

the avowed goad which should operate as the guiding star to

help determine the approach of the Tribunal in every case. 17.2. In our judicial system, the doctrine of precedent plays

an important part. The precedent applies both to

substantive law as well as procedural law. The High Court,

which is the appellate Court, can, in exercise of its appellate

jurisdiction, as also its jurisdiction under Article 227 for

superintendence of justice administration in the State, lay

down a precedent which contains the procedure. 17.3. In other words, the principle of „as it may think fit‟

which is with every Claims Tribunal and perforce are also MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 84 of 116 with the appellate Court (which has more power by reason of

being a High Court) can always formulate/form procedures as

are suited, tailored, proportional, efficient, do not breach the

rules of Natural Justice, and serve the purpose of speedy

justice. 17.4. The scope of these proceedings/this judgment is to

visualize and give guidelines as a precedent as to what

procedure and practice the Claims Tribunal could adopt as

part of summary procedure. It may be made clear that this

is only a guide and does not in any way fetter the powers of

the Presiding Officer to do what on the facts of a case he

thinks fit and right. 18. CONCLUSION

Coming back to the facts of the present case, in view of the

legal position as enunciated above, the appeal is allowed,

impugned award is set aside and the case is remanded back

to the Tribunal for conducting fresh inquiry in accordance

with law. The inquiry be completed within a period of six

months. The parties are directed to appear before the

Claims Tribunal on 10th May, 2010. LCR be sent back to the

Claims Tribunal immediately through a special messenger. 19. This Court highly appreciates the extensive research

and contribution of the learned amicus curiae, Dr. Arun

Mohan in this matter. 20. Copy of the order be given Dasti to the counsel for the

parties and the learned amicus curiae. 21. Copy of the order be also sent to the Principal District

and Sessions Judge, District Judges, all the Claims Tribunals

and Additional District Judges handling motor accident cases

through the Registrar (Appellate) of this Court. Copy of this

order be also sent to the Principal Secretary (Law),

Government of NCT of Delhi. 22. Copy of this order be also sent to Mr. S. Sundar,

Chairman of the Expert Committee appointed by the Ministry

of Road Transport and Highways, Government of India for

consideration while recommending the amendments to the Motor Vehicles Act . J.R. MIDHA, J
APRIL 12, 2010 MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 86 of 116 Annexure-I
 FORMAT OF THE CHECKLIST FOR MACT 1. Date of accident : ................................... 2. FIR No., date and under Sections : ................................... 3. Name of the Police Station : ................................... 4. Name and phone No. of the : ................................... Investigating Officer 5. Registration No. of the : ................................... offending vehicle 6. Engine and chassis No. of the : ................................... offending vehicle 7. Name, address and phone No. : ................................... of the owner of the
 offending vehicle 8. Name, address and phone No. : ................................... of the driver of the
 offending vehicle 9. Particulars of the driving licence:- 10. Particulars of the permit : ................................... (In case of commercial vehicle) 11. Particulars of fitness certificate : ................................... (In case of commercial vehicle) 12. Name and address of the : ................................... Insurance Company, policy ...................................
 number and period of policy ................................... 13. Name, address and phone No. : ................................... of the designated officer
 of Insurance Company 14. Date of appointment : ................................... of the designated officer
 of Insurance Company 15. Name of the victim : ................................... 16. Age of the victim : ................................... 17. Occupation of the victim : ................................... 18. Income of the victim : ................................... 19. In case of death, particulars of legal representatives of the
 victim:- representatives (ii) Age of legal representatives: ................................... (iii) Relationship : ................................... 20. In case of injury : 21. Date of filing of Accident : ................................... Information Report (AIR) 22. Documents filed along with AIR : Report (vii) Seizure Memo : ................................... (viii) Driving Licence : ................................... (ix) Permit : ................................... (x) Fitness Certificate : ................................... (xi) Insurance Policy : ................................... (xii) Notice under Section : ................................... 133 of the Motor Vehicles Act (xiii) Statement of the
 eye-witnesses : ................................... (xiv) Report under Section 173 , : ................................... Cr.PC. 23. Whether the police has : ................................... verified the aforesaid documents 24. Date of service of AIR on the : ................................... Insurance Company 25. Date of service of AIR : ................................... on the claimant 26. Whether AIR is complete : ................................... in all respects? 27. Deficiencies in the AIR : ................................... 28. Whether the designated : ................................... officer of the Insurance Company
 has submitted the report within
 30 days of the AIR? 29. Whether the Insurance Company : ................................... has admitted the liability? 30. If so, the amount assessed by the: ................................... Insurance Company 31. Defences raised by the : ................................... Insurance Company 32. Whether the claimant has filed : ................................... the application in Form „G‟ along
 with the affidavit, photograph
 and proof of residence? 33. Name and address of : ................................... the eye-witnesses 34. Documents on record relating to:- of the victim (iii) Proof of income of : ................................... Course on Motor Vehicle Accident cases and processing of information under 'CTAP'

 INVESTIGATION OF ACCIDENT CASES

Objectives

 Upon completion of this session, you will be able to: II. ACTION BY INVESTIGATING OFFICER IN POLICE STATION

 ♦ Collect the relevant DD entries pertaining to information of accident
 ♦ Make an entry in the DD Register for departure (if not already made) to the
 place of occurrence/hospital, as the case may be
 ♦ Obtain the Digital Camera from Malkhana
 ♦ Carry the Checklist (Annexure - „B‟ of the manual) MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 92 of 116 ♦ Carry Mechanical Inspection Form (Annexure - „C‟ manual)
 ♦ Carry dead body bag and white sheet in case of fatal accident
 ♦ Carry Police Tape to secure/mark the scene
 ♦ Carry Investigating Officer‟s kit
 ♦ Inform Draftsman telephonically, if possible (in case of Fatal Accidents)
 ♦ Inform Mechanical Inspector telephonically
 ♦ Inform private photographer telephonically (depending on circumstances)

III. INVESTIGATION KIT: Note: a) The SHO/ATO/Investigating Officer will take a decision regarding
 divergence of traffic in co-ordination with Traffic Police, if required. b) The IO/SHO to analyze the need for re-enforcement to maintain law &
 order in case of situation going ugly. V. MECHNICAL INSPECTION & FORENSIC EXAMINATIONS: Locard's 'Principle of Exchange' : It is the fundamental rule upon which
forensic science is based. Whenever there is contact between two items, there
will be an exchange. In an accident, when two objects collide, there will be
exchange of paints, clothes, hair, blood, tissues etc. which require forensic
examination as these are not visible through naked eyes. (iii) The observations about the damage should find mention in the „ruqqa‟,
 statements of the witnesses. Photographs should indicate damages clearly
 and details be mentioned with case details. (iv) Fatal accident cases, where there is no eyewitness, should be closely
 monitored / supervised by the Senior Officers. VI. SITE PLAN (i) Properly drawn site plan renders valuable evidence than the oral testimony
 of witnesses. Rashness/negligence on the part of the driver is ascertained by
 various factors depicted in the site plan. For example skid marks; over taking
 from left side; right of way, jumping red light etc. (ii) Site plan should be prepared according to the scale showing the following
 a. directions of movement of vehicles,
 b. position of the vehicles,
 c. point of impact,
 d. position of deceased; e. skid marks; f. width of the road,
 g. central verge or road divider; h. lamp post; i. traffic lights,
 j. zebra crossing etc.
The services of qualified draftsmen can be requisitioned at the scene of accident
(in case of fatal accident). Different colour markings could be used to describe
any other circumstances/evidence having bearing in the case. VII. PHOTOGRAPHS (i) Photographs of the accident spot can be taken by the Investigating Officer,
 or through official/ professional photographer. (ii) The photographs of tyre marks, skid marks should be taken by placing the
 scale bar as well as chit indicating the case details/name of witnesses. (iii) Vehicles should be photographed from all angles to fully illustrate the
 extent of damage. (iv) Besides, the photographs of the site and surrounding areas be also taken to
 show the exact topography for the perusal of the court at the time of trial. (v) On each photographs, details of what is being projected should be
 mentioned. VIII. SPOT ENQUIRY (i) The Spot Enquiry may be conducted form the eye-witnesses/by standers. (ii) It should also be verified if the driver of the offending vehicle has
 complied with the provisions of 134 A of MV Act regarding providing
 medical assistance to the injured. (iii) The injured should be immediately removed to hospital for immediate
 medical treatment, if not already done. IX. RECORDING OF FIR (i) In case the injured is declared „fit for making statement‟ by the doctor
 attending him, his statement should be recorded highlighting and
 clearly mentioning the following: XI. TEST IDENTIFICATION PARADE
 In case the driver of offending vehicle escapes from the spot, the Test
 Identification Parade of the accused driver should be invariably conducted after
 obtaining the details of the driver from the owner of the offending vehicle in
 response to notice u/s 133 M.V. Act. XII. MEDICAL EXAMINATION/PM REPORT (i) In case the final opinion on the MLC of the injured is not given by the
 doctor, the IO shall ensure that the MLC along with the treatment papers
 of the injured shall be deposited for final result at the earliest possible.
 (However, pursuant to the order of the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi
 dated 15.1.10, in case of 'grievous injury', the IO is supposed to verify
 and submit the 'insurance certificate' before the MACT within 48 hrs
 alongwith the intimation of factum of accident. Hence, a clarification
 be sought from the doctor in all U/O cases - Sample Application at
 ANNEXURE-S ) (ii) In case where the victim or the driver of the erring vehicle has consumed
 alcohol, the IO shall request the doctor to preserve the blood sample which
 shall be sent for examination to ascertain the quantity of alcohol in the
 blood. (iii) The IO shall follow up with the Record Clerk or Forensic Department for
 timely collection of MLC/PM Report. XIII. LEGAL ACTION UNDER M.V. ACT (i) The driver of the offending vehicle if found without license, be booked u/s
 3 / 181 M.V. Act and the owner be booked u/s 5 / 180 M.V. Act. (ii) In case minor is found driving the vehicle, a report be sent to Juvenile
 Justice Board u/s 4/181 M.V. Act (iii) If the driver has consumed Alcohol/intoxicants, he should be examined
 medically and booked u/s 185 M.V. Act. (iv) If the vehicle involved in the accident is uninsured/or not having valid
 insurance, the driver as well as owner be booked u/s 196 M.V. Act. (v) If the driver if found in possession of a forged driving license, a separate
 case u/s 465 / 468 / 471 / 474 IPC be registered and investigated. Similar action
 is to be taken in case of forged insurance policy etc. MAC.APP.No.609/2009 Page 97 of 116 XIV. MISCELLANEEOUS INSTRUCTIONS (i) In an accident where no injury is caused to any person but vehicles are
 damaged, it can be dealt with u/s 279 IPC or u/s 184 M.V. Act depending
 on the circumstances of case to avoid unnecessary harassment. (ii) The Police has no power to accept compromise or ask the parties to enter
 into a compromise as these offences are not compoundable. (iii) A report/ information involving a Diplomatic Car having (CD No.) to
 be sent to the Principal Secretary (Home), Govt. of NCT, Delhi. (iv) The first priority of the local police/PCR van staff is to hospitalize the
 victim for medical treatment and not to wait for police formalities. (v) The seized vehicles of the victims / complainants should be released
 to the owner on furnishing surety bond after completing the
 investigation. (vi) In accident cases registered u/s 279 / 337 / 338 / 304-A IPC, sections
 427 / 429 IPC should not be applied as their ingredients are different. (vii) The IO should be thorough with the provisions of IPC and MV Act as
 already discussed in lesson 2. XV. CONCLUSION OF INVESTIGATION (i) The police report u/s 173 Cr.P.C is a conclusion that an Investigating
 Officer draws on the basis of material collected during investigation
 and such conclusion can only form the basis for the competent court
 to take cognizance thereupon and to proceed with the case for trial.
 Therefore, the investigation should be concluded logically based on
 the admissible evidence. (ii) The Investigating Officer should ensure that memos or "Furds" and
 statements of the witnesses are properly recorded. The investigation of
 accident cases should have to be completed within 30 days after the
 arrest of the accused person. It is advisable that the victim or the
 family of the victim in Fatal Accidents case is apprised of the
 developments in the investigation. (iii) The Charge Sheet in accident cases should be filed within stipulated
 period mentioning the following
 a. names of the party,
 b. nature of information,
 c. names of the witnesses and
 d. the conclusion drawn on the basis of the evidence collected during
 investigation against the accused. (iv) In accident cases following point are required to be taken note of,
 while preparing the Charge Sheet: INTRODUCTORY: The officers investigating accident cases may avail the services of a
professional private photographer, depending on the circumstances. iii) INSPECTION OF THE SPOT: In accident cases, whether fatal or simple, the inspection of the spot in a
professional and scientific manner is very important. The skid-marks indicate the
probable speed of vehicle(s) which can be an important tool to help investigating officer
to arrive at some pertinent conclusions. The direction(s) of the vehicles involved in the
accident, condition of the road, whether one-way or two-way, road-curve, visibility at the
time of the accident, existence of speed-breakers or potholes on the road, skid-marks etc.
should invariably find mention in the Spot Inspection Note (Mauka-Mulahiza) of the case
diary. iv) MECHANICAL INSPECTION: If the vehicle(s) involved in the accident are causing hindrance in the smooth
flow of traffic, it is advisable to remove them to a side. As far as possible the mechanical
inspection of the vehicles should be done at the spot itself. The IO should note down the
details of damages of vehicle(s) involved in an accident minutely, such as area of
damage, extent of damage, point of impact between the vehicles and see if there are
paint-marks or any other evidence transferred from one vehicle to another at the time of
impact. He should bring them on record through his observations mentioned in the
endorsement of the ruqqa, statements of witnesses, photographs etc.

 If the Mechanical Inspector or any other expert is not readily available at the
spot, it should be got done in the police station after it has been brought from the spot.
Many IOs are trained in inspection of vehicles which are involved in accidents. They
shall normally carry out inspection of vehicles involved in accidents themselves and
prove the same before the trial court. In case of those not trained, inspections shall be
carried out by the officers in the District/Sub-Division trained for the purpose. In case of
doubt, M.T.I. staff from Provisioning and Logistics Unit may be summoned for expert
opinion/advice, as the case may be. The vehicles should be released only after their
mechanical inspection has been done. There are professional private Mechanical
Inspectors whose services can be availed and their fee may be got reimbursed from the
investigation fund. v) FORENSIC EXAMINATION: In an accident case inevitably there is an impact between two objects - vehicle
with vehicle or vehicle with a living being or vehicle with any other object etc. The
Locard‟s Principle of Exchange is the fundamental rule upon which forensic science is
based. It states that, "with contact between two items, there will be an exchange." Such Page 101 of 116 exchanges of paints, clothes, hair, blood, tissues, etc. etc. could either be easily visible or
of a minute nature which escapes the naked eye. In fatal accident cases, efforts should be
made by the I.O. to trace out and seize in an appropriate manner all such relevant
evidence. Where necessary, a forensic expert should be requisitioned at the spot to
examine the scene of accident and the vehicle(s) or at least the exhibits should be
collected carefully by the I.O. with the help of Crime Team and sent to the FSL for an
opinion. In accident cases, particularly fatal accident, where there are no eye witnesses
such evidence could be critical in nature. This needs to be closely supervised by the
district DCP, so that cases are not overlooked or ignored in a routine manner. vi) SITE PLAN: In an accident case, properly drawn site plan renders far more valuable evidence
than the oral testimony of witnesses as the site plan speaks a lot of facts itself. A site plan
shall be prepared according to scale which should indicate the positions and in which the
vehicles were found, point of impact, position of the deceased, skid-marks, width of the
road, central verge or road-divider, lamp-post, etc. depending on the circumstances of the
case site plan. The investigating officer may, if necessary, requisition the services of a
qualified draftsman at the scene of accident. Different colour markings could also be used
to describe any other circumstance/evidence having a bearing on the case. vii) PHOTOGRAPH: An I.O. may himself take photographs of the spot or he may take assistance of
the official photographer or even of a professional photographer. Where there are tyre-
marks or skid marks of any other kind which are relevant to fix responsibility of the
accident on anyone, they should be photographed after placing a chit near them bearing
the details of the case and signatures of the witnesses present at the spot so that at some
later stage it may be possible to co-relate the photograph to a particular case. A scale-bar
to illustrate the length of the marks shall also be used while photographing. Damages
occurred by the vehicles on account of the accident, should also be got photographed
from all angles to fully illustrate the extent of damage. 2. INVESTIGATION :- i) RECORDING OF F.I.R.: If the condition of the injured person permits, his statement should preferably
form the basis of FIR. The I.O. should keep in mind that the safety and life of the injured
must receive precedence over any other thing. Both, the statement on which the FIR is to
be registered and subsequent statements of the witness(s), the description of the accused
and the vehicles involved in the accident should be mentioned as far as possible. involve conducting inquest proceedings and, therefore, shall invariably be investigated by
an upper subordinate officer. The SHO shall ensure that the IO is well versed with the
law and procedure required for conducting investigation of such cases. (b) The IO while proceeding to the spot of a fatal accident shall also carry sheets of
white cloth supplied to the Malkhanas to cover dead bodies. In no case the body of the
deceased shall be allowed to remain uncovered. Shrouds to be kept in PCR vans and the
Police Stations shall be procured centrally by the P&L Unit and supplied to all
districts/Units and stocks replenished when the need arises. (c) Post-Mortem Examination- Inquest Papers i.e. Brief facts, Form No. 25.35(B)
PPR, Identification statements, MLC, copies of FIR/DD entries, etc. should be filled in
with due care and caution. The IO shall remain present at the time of the PM examination
and after the same is over, the dead body be handed over to the relatives after re-
identification under proper receipt. In all fatal hit and run cases where the offending
vehicle is not known and also victims‟ identity is not known till the time of post mortem,
the ACP/Sub-Division shall satisfy himself that the case is of road accident and not
related to any other crime. He shall also record the same on the inquest report of the case. 3. PREPARATION OF CASE FILE:- 4. CHARGE SHEET:- 5. MAINTENANCE OF STATISTICS:- 6. SUPERVISION OVER INVESTIGATION:- 7. DIRECTIONS OF THE HON'BLE HIGH COURT OF DELHI:- 8. MISCELLANEOUS INSTRUCTIONS:- The S.O. on the subject "Investigation of road accidents cases" aside there are
two other important Standing Orders. Standing Order No. 328 regarding statutory
obligation of police officers under section 158 (b) M.V. Act to forward the claims to
concerned MACT and Standing Order No. 339 dated 8/02/2008 regarding release of Page 106 of 116 vehicles belonging to accident victims. Strict compliance of these Standing Orders should
also be ensured while dealing with road accident cases. This S.O. is issued in supersession of old S.O. no. 157 issued vide this Hdqrs.
No. 46722-821/C&T/AC-V/PHQ, dated 14.8.2008. -sd- (Yudhbir Singh Dadwal)
 Commissioner of Police: APPENDIX-I
 Daily Traffic Accident Report

POLICE STATION______________________________TO
________________________________DATE_____________________

______________________________________________________________________________________________________
______

Date and Exact place of Vehicles involved Nature of accident No. of persons Aged, sex of DD/FIR No., u/s and
time of occurrence (Give Registration No.) (a) Collision with killed/injured person dead or date of cases with
accident or avoidance of (grievous/simple injured. brief facts results of
 or injury) etc. Investigation until the (b) Other kind i.e.
 times of dispatch of
 hitting fixed
 the report. CHECK LIST FOR COMPLIANCE OF CLAIMS TRIBUNAL AGREED PROCEDURE

Case FIR No. ________________ Date_____________u/s________________________
P.S._____________________Name of IO ____________________________________
Mobile No of IO__________________________________________ AIR No________
Note: IO must fill up the proforma by ticking the appropriate box to ensure compliance
of all directions as mentioned in Claims Tribunal Agreed Procedure. The concerned SHO
and ACP/SDPO shall also ensure compliance of all the points mentioned below. PART-I
 IMMEDIATE ENQUIRY FORM
 (For gathering information to be submitted within 48 hours) 1. FIR No., date & u/s ____________________________________ 2. Name of the Police Station ____________________________________ 3. Source of Information ____________________________________
 (Name, Address & Tel. No.) a) Driver/Owner ____________________________________ b) Victim ____________________________________ c) Witness ____________________________________ d) Hospital/Medical facility ____________________________________ 4. Date ____________________________________ 5. Time and place of accident ____________________________________ 6. Nature of Accident a) Simple b) Grievous c) Fatal ____________________________________
 (if MLC is U/O it be clarified from the doctor if the injury could be grievous) 7. Name & address of the injured/deceased ____________________________________

 _____________________________________________________________________ 8. Whether medical attendant for victim
 secured by erring driver/owner in terms
 of section 134(a) MV Act ____________________________________ 9. Details of the hospital where taken ____________________________________ Page 109 of 116 10. Multi angle photographs to be taken ____________________________________ 11. Detailed site plan(scaled in case of fatal) ____________________________________ 12. Details of the eyewitnesses (attach additional sheets, if required) (i) Name ____________________________________ (ii) Address ____________________________________ (iii)Contact Number ____________________________________ (iv) Statement ____________________________________ 13. Registration Particulars of the vehicle
 (if available immediately) (i) Registration No. ____________________________________ (ii) Engine No. ____________________________________ (iii)Chassis No. ____________________________________ 14. If vehicle is registered outside Delhi,
 the name of the RTA_____________District______________State_______________ 15. Insurance Details (in grievous injury, the Insurance Certificate and verification report
 regarding its genuineness be submitted to MACT within 48 hrs) (i) Name & address of the insurance company ______________________________

 _____________________________________________________________________ (ii) Policy No. __________________________________________ (iii)Insurance certificate and validity of policy________________________________ 16. Details of driving license of erring driver____________________________________
 (i. whether valid for the type of vehicle being driven)
 (ii. whether he is holding any other license - obtain in writing from driver)
 _____________________________________________________________________ 17. Details of driving license of the victim, (wherever applicable)___________________

 _____________________________________________________________________ 18. If the D/L is issued from outside Delhi,
 the name of the RTA_____________District______________State_______________ 19. Name and address of the owner / driver (if available) __________________________

 _____________________________________________________________________ Page 110 of 116 _____________________________________________________________________
 PART-11
 (For filing of detailed accident report within 30 days) 1. Collection of relevant evidences:- 2. Collection of relevant documents :- 3. Verification of above mentioned documents:- (i) Driving license Verified
 (to be valid for vehicle being driven)
 If not verified, the reason thereof--------------------------------------- (ii) R.C Verified

 If not verified, the reason thereof--------------------------------------- (iii) Insurance Certificate Verified

 If not verified, the reason thereof--------------------------------------- (iv) Fitness (in case of commercial vehicle ) Verified

 If not verified, the reason thereof--------------------------------------- (v) Permit (in case of commercial vehicle ) Verified

 If not verified, the reason thereof--------------------------------------- If not verified, the reason thereof--------------------------------------- (viii) P.M report Collected

 If not collected, the reason thereof--------------------------------------- (ix) Birth certificate of the deceased(s) Verified

 If not verified, the reason thereof--------------------------------------- (x) Salary slip Verified Page 112 of 116 If not verified, the reason thereof--------------------------------------- (xi) Certificate of employer Verified

 If not verified, the reason thereof--------------------------------------- (xii) Income-Tax return Verified

 If not verified, the reason thereof--------------------------------------- (xiii) Prescription slips of doctor Verified

 If not verified, the reason thereof--------------------------------------- (xiv) Bill for medical expenses Verified

 If not verified, the reason thereof--------------------------------------- 4. Whether Detailed Accident Report (DAR) filed with the claim Tribunals within 30 days
or not. (i) Filed (ii) If not filed, the reason thereof ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 5. DAR shall be accompanied by the following documents:- about the verification of the said documents. 6. Whether the driver, owner, claimants and eye-witness have been produced before the
Claim Tribunals alongwith the DAR or not. (i) Produced

 * Driver
 * Owner
 * Claimants
 * Eye-witness (ii) If not produced, the reason thereof in case of

 * Driver----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 * Owner ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 * Claimants------------------------------------------------------------------------
 * Eye-witness -------------------------------------------------------------------- 7. Whether copy of DAR has been furnished to the concerned insurance company or not. (i) Furnished (ii) If not furnished, the reason thereof ------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 8. Whether copy of DAR has been furnished to the claimants or not. (i) Furnished (ii) If not furnished, the reason thereof ------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 9.Whether copy of DAR has been furnished to the Secretary, Delhi Legal Services
Authority, Central Office, Pre-Fab Building,Patiala House Court, New Delhi or not. (i) Furnished (ii) If not furnished, the reason thereof ------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 10. Whether an advance notice has been given to the concerned Insurance Company about
the date of filing of the DAR before the Claim Tribunals or not. (i) Given (ii) If not given, the reason thereof ----------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 11. Whether the Claim Tribunal has accepted the Detailed Accident Report or not (i) Accepted (ii) If not accepted, the reason thereof ------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 12. Has the investigation of the accident been completed within 30 days
 Yes
 No
If no, the reason beyond his control, such as (i) Hit & run accident (ii) The parties reside outside the jurisdiction of the court (iii) The DL is issued outside the jurisdiction of the court Page 115 of 116 (iv) The victim has suffered grievous injuries and is still undergoing treatment (v) Any other
 reason(specify)............................................................................
 .............................................................................................. 13. Whether the IO has approached the claim tribunal for extension of time. Yes

 No
If yes, (i) Date of extension of time----------------------------------------------------------- (ii) Period of extension of time------------------------------------------------------------ 14. Whether the IO has complied the points within the extension time

 Yes

 No
 If no, reason thereof ------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Signatures of:-