Mr. Vishav Kant Garg, Member 1) Whether Reporters of the Newspapers
 may be allowed to see the Judgment? Yes/No 2) To be referred to the Reporters or not? Yes/No 3) Whether judgment should be reported
 in the Digest? Yes/No

Present :- This Appeal has been filed by the Appellants/Opposite Parties

under Section 41 of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 (in short

' The Act ') being aggrieved by the impugned Order dated F.A.No.93 of 2022 2 29.11.2021 passed by the District Consumer Disputes Redressal

Commission Faridkot (in short 'the District Commission')

whereby the Complaint of the Complainant had been allowed. 2. It would be apposite to mention that hereinafter the parties

will be referred, as had been arrayed before the District Commission. 3. Briefly, the facts of the case as made out by the

Complainant before the District Commission are that the Complainant

was having saving bank account No.006601537200 with the OP. In the

month of June, 2015, the Complainant was shocked to know that

Rs.1,23,998/- had been debited from his account on 26.06.2015 and

27.06.2015 through approximately eight transactions. The said

deductions were not transacted by him and the same had been done

by some other person in connivance of Bank employee. He had

immediately approached the OP Bank and lodged the Complaint

bearing No.SR377206559 with the customer care i.e. [email protected] . However, the OP had not addressed

his genuine complaint and the amount so debited was not refunded to

him. He had visited the OP many times and had also sent emails to

this regard. But the OP did not pay any heed to his genuine requests.

These transactions had been made through internet banking and for

each transaction a one time password (OTP) had to be sent on his

registered mobile number with the bank. The passwords were sent by

the service provider of the Bank to prevent any further forgery or

mishap. The amount could be encashed only after verifying the said

one time password. However, the Complainant had never received any

OTP for the said transactions on his registered mobile number. The F.A.No.93 of 2022 3 amount from the said account had been misappropriated. It was

apprehended by him that some bank employee was involved in the

said act. The Bank had not inquired in to the incident properly and had

declined his genuine claim regarding the refund of the said amount.

The aforesaid act & conduct of the Bank officials had clearly shown

that there was 'negligence' and 'deficiency in service' on its part.

Hence, the Complaint was filed by the Complainant. He sought the

following directions to be issued to the OP:- In case, said embezzlement had taken place due to misuse of

debit/credit card, it could not be attributed to the bank. As the said

cards are always in the possession of the account holder and are

secured through a secret PIN selected by the account holder.

Therefore, the OP Bank could not be held responsible for alleged F.A.No.93 of 2022 4 transactions conducted in the savings bank account. The Complaint

was not maintainable under the Consumer Protection Act . The

transactions carried out in the account were of commercial in nature.

Such an act of misappropriation could not be adjudicated in a summary

trial under the provisions of CP Act . Any dispute arising out of any

commercial transaction could not be decided under the provisions of

Act as it requires detailed evidence and trial, which could not be

decided in a summary trial. The only remedy, which the Complainant

could have availed was to approach the Civil Court for resolution of the

dispute. Even otherwise, Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum had no

jurisdiction to entertain the Complaint. On receipt of the Complaint of

the Complainant investigations were initiated by the bank under

Sr.No.SR377206559 and it was revealed that the alleged transactions

made on 26.06.2015 to 28.6.2015 involved fraud committed pertaining

to fund transfer through biller transaction. No fraud or on-line

transaction was possible from the system of internet banking unless

the customer compromises on his personal identification parameters

inadvertently or otherwise. Such fraud could occur in the account of

customer either by clicking on the links received through phishing mails

and up-dation of details such as log in id, passwords, date of birth, grid

card values, mother's maiden name etc. In addition to it many times

the desktops used by the customers are infected with

Trojans/malwares etc. due to insufficient antivirus protection etc. which

may capture the key 'strokes and transmit that data to remote location.

The personal details like passwords could also be obtained by persons

with fraudulent intent through shoulder surfing etc. and such other

means. As per banking practice, in case of any Internet banking, F.A.No.93 of 2022 5 transaction could take place only through user id and password and

through one time password(OTP) which is sent to customer's

registered mobile number. User ID, password and OTP are in the

knowledge of the account holders only. During the investigations made

by the bank it was revealed that the customer was a government

employee in Improvement Trust. When he was inquired about the

disputed transactions, he had informed that he had received SMS

regarding the said transactions. He had claimed that his personal bank

account related details were never shared with anyone. On further

probing, he had revealed that he had carried out some transactions on

the computer of his friend. He had refused to share further details when

requested. He was a regular user of PayTM. As per the records of the

bank, SMS pertaining to the said disputed transactions had been sent

on his registered mobile number. Therefore, it had been proved that

the said mobile number was in his possession. The OP had not

committed any wrong with regard to alleged transactions. As informed

by the Complainant he had already lodged a police Complaint,

therefore the Complaint was premature. It was filed without waiting for

the conclusion of investigation done by the police. On merits also OP

had reiterated the averments as had been mentioned in the preliminary

objections. Other allegations made in the complaint were denied and

dismissal of Complaint was prayed for. 5. By considering the averments made in the Complaint as

well as in the reply thereof, the Complaint filed by the Complainant was

allowed vide order dated 29.11.2021 passed by the District

Commission. The relevant part of said order is reproduced as

under:- 6 6. The Appellant/OP has filed the present Appeal being

aggrieved by the order dated 29.11.2021 passed by the District

Commission by raising a number of arguments. M.A.No.166 of 2024 (For Additional Evidence)
 This Application has been filed by the Appellant to lead additional
evidence by tendering the details of SMS sent to the respondent,
whereby the same had been intimated about the alleged transaction
as Annexure-4. Notice of the Application was issued and reply to the same had
been filed by Counsel for the Respondent/Complainant. For the reasons stated in the Application and after hearing the
submission of both the Counsel for the parties, the Application is
allowed as prayed for. Annexure-4 attached with the Application is
taken on record. Said Misc. Application is disposed off accordingly. F.A.No.93 of 2022 7 M.A.No.914 of 2024 (For placing on record affidavit)

 This Application has been filed by the Counsel for the Appellant
for placing on record affidavit of the Official of the Bank along with
(Annexures A-5 & A-6). Notice of the Application was issued and reply to the same had
been filed by Counsel for the Respondent/Complainant. For the reasons mentioned in the Application and after hearing
the submission of both the Counsel for the parties, the Application is
allowed as prayed for. The affidavit along with annexures mentioned
above are taken in record. Said Misc. Application is disposed off accordingly. 7. Mr.Ammish Goel, Advocate, learned Counsel for the

Appellant/OP has argued on the similar lines as per the written reply

filed before the District Commission. Learned Counsel has submitted

that the Respondent himself had admitted that the alleged transactions

had been carried out through internet. In such kind of transaction an

OTP is sent to the registered mobile number of the account holder. The

amount requested for the transaction is encashed only upon

verification of OTP by the account holder. In the instant case also, the

Appellant had forwarded the OTP to the registered mobile number of

the respondent qua the transactions in question and thereafter only

approved the said transactions had taken place. Thus, as per system

and procedure adopted by the Appellant, no online transaction could

be possible without verifying the OTP. The Appellant being the service

provider had performed its part of contractual obligation by sending the

timely intimation to the Respondent about the transactions. The

Respondent himself had failed to inform the Appellant about the

alleged unauthorized transactions in a timely manner. It was the duty F.A.No.93 of 2022 8 of the Respondent to intimate the Appellant immediately after the

receipt of SMS alert whereby the Respondent had been made aware

about the alleged transactions. It is surprising as to how the

Respondent/Complainant could attribute 'deficiency in service' on its

part. 8. Learned Counsel has further submitted that the District

Commission had allowed the Complaint on the basis of the judgment

of Hon'ble National Commission i.e. HDFC Bank Limited Vs. Jesna

Jose , report in 2021 (2) CPR 49 as well as on the basis of circular

No.DBR.No.Leg.BC.78/09.07.005/2017-18 dated 06.07.2017 issued

by the RBI, whereas in the present case all the transactions had taken

place on 26.06.2015 & 27.06.2015. All the alleged transactions had

taken place two years before from the date of circular and judgment.

Moreover, the alleged transactions had been done by the respondent

from the same device and the said fact can be seen from the sheet

showing details of IP address & SMS alert. 9. Learned Counsel has further submitted that the alleged

transactions could occur either by clicking on the links received through

phishing mails and up-dation of details such as login ID, Passwords,

Date of Birth, Grid Card Values etc. Thus, once the Respondent had

opted for the net banking facility by acknowledging the terms and

conditions, he had to be vigilant while conducting online payments from

his account. Therefore, the OP Bank cannot be held responsible of

the said transactions. Learned Counsel has relied upon certain

judgments i.e. 1) "DAV Public School Vs. Senior Manager, Indian

Bank, Midnapur Branch & Ors." 2019 (2) SCC 31, 2) "Branch F.A.No.93 of 2022 9 Manager, Universal Sompo Gen. Ins. Co. Ltd. & Ors. Vs.

Didwaniya Exim Private Ltd. & Ors. ", 2020 (1) CPJ 407, 3) M/s Umarpur Rice Mills (P) Ltd. Vs. New India Assurance Co. Ltd. and

Ors. , 2020(1) CPJ 13, in support of his arguments. 10. Mr.Sukhandeep Singh, Advocate learned Counsel for

the Respondent/Complainant has submitted that the alleged eight

transactions approximately for a total amount of Rs.1,23,998/- had not

been made by the Respondent/Complainant. Said transactions were

made through internet and one time password (OTP) was being sent

on mobile of the account holder. However, in the present case the

Respondent/Complainant had never received any OTP for the alleged

transactions on his mobile. Learned Counsel has further submitted hat

the Appellant had failed to produce on record any document to prove

that the alleged transactions were either carried out with the consent

of the Respondent/Complainant or that the bank had taken due care

and diligence to make sure that such unauthorized transactions did not

materialize. Even if Annexure A-4 is considered for the sake of

argument, the same clearly reflects the fact for the alleged online

transactions on 26.06.2015 and 27.06.2015 no OTP was ever sent to

the Complainant by OP Bank. Whereas as per the Circular

No.RBI/2012-13/424 DPSS (CO) PD No.1462/02.14.003/2012-13

dated 28.02.2013 issued by the RBI, it has clearly been enshrined that

the Banks are supposed to send OTP(s) to the customers for

verification of the online transactions. Learned Counsel has relied upon

certain judgments i.e. 1) "HDFC Bank Limited Vs. Jesna Jose", 2021

(3) CPJ 38, 2) "State Bank of India Vs. Dr.J.C.S. Kataky" III (2018) F.A.No.93 of 2022 10 CPJ 193 (NC), 3) "Punjab National Bank & Anr. Vs. Leader Valves",

II (2020) CPJ 92 (NC), in support of his arguments. 11. We have heard the oral arguments raised by learned

Counsel for the parties. We have also perused the order dated

29.11.2021 as well as all the relevant documents available on the file. 12. Facts relating to the filing of the Complaint by the

Complainant before the District Commission, reply thereof, the oral

arguments raised by learned Counsel for the parties and passing of

impugned order dated 29.11.2021 by the District Commission,

thereafter filing of present appeal before this Commission by the

Appellant/OP are not in dispute. 13. The main issue for adjudication before us:- 14. To reach to the right conclusion, we have thoroughly

perused and compared the bank statement produced the Complainant

before the District Commission as well as Annexure-A 4 produced

before this Commission by way of additional evidence. Admittedly, the

alleged transactions took place on 26.06.2015 and 27.06.2015. The

details of these transactions match with each other by way of their

Info.BIL number e.g. *000790151752*. Both the parties have not F.A.No.93 of 2022 11 disputed the said fact. Furthermore, a thorough perusal of Annexure

A-4 it has been observed that SMS of payment gateway had been sent

to the Respondent/Complainant for all the alleged transactions.

However, nowhere any message has been shared with the

Respondent/Complainant with respect to OTP. The only exception is

that an alert regrading OTP was sent on 26.06.2015 at 11:20 pm. It is

surprising that if the OP/service provider could provide details of SMS

alert (Annexure A-4) how come OTP/beneficiary URN (Uniform

Resource Name) Messages were not sent for the other transactions

which had taken place on 26.06.2015 and 27.06.2015. Uniform

Resource Name is used in internet banking. The case in hand is

covered in the circular issued by RBI vide

No.DRB.No.Leg.BC.78/09.07.005/2017-18 dated 06.07.2017, wherein

it has categorically been mentioned about zero liability of customer in

contributory fraud/third party breach where the deficiency lies neither

with the bank nor with the customer but lies elsewhere in the system,

and the customer notifies the bank within three working days of

receiving communication from the bank regarding the unauthorized

transaction. In the present case, the Respondent/Complainant had

immediately report to the OP Bank vide No.SR377206559 with its

customer care i.e. [email protected] . Therefore, the

Respondent/Complainant falls under the category of Zero

Liability of Customer. 15. The question that the guidelines were circulated by

RBI in year 2017 and the alleged unauthorized transactions had

taken place in the year 2015, these cannot made applicable with F.A.No.93 of 2022 12 retrospective effect. After thorough perusal of the said circular, it

has been observed that it pertains to instructions/guidelines

which all the banks are required to adhere to compulsorily. Thus,

the applicability of said circular issued by RBI in 2017 in the

instant case is ill founded. 16. The issue regarding Electronic payment Transactions is

also covered under the RBI circular No.RBI/2012-13/424 DPSS (CO)

PD No.1462/02.14.003/2012-13 dated 28.02.2013, wherein in point

No.2 (vii) it has been mentioned that "Banks should move towards real

time fraud monitoring system at the earliest". In the case in hand, the

OP Bank has not tendered any investigation report with regard to the

alleged transactions. There is only a passing reference that

investigations were initiated by the OP Bank under No.SR377206559.

This proves that the bank had not investigated the alleged fund

transfer through Biller transactions made on 26.06.2015 to

27.06.2015. 17. It has also been observed the OP has taken a self

contradictory stand in Annexure A-4 i.e. the details of SMS sent

to the Complainant on his Registered mobile number and the

statement made by Sh.Harpreet Singh, Sr.Officer, ICICI Bank, Mall

Road, Amritsar, before the District Commission, who had stated

as under:- 18. On the one hand it has been tendered by way of additional

evidence that intimation by way of SMS was sent to the Respondent

on 26.06.2015 and 27.06.2015 and on the other hand it has been

stated by the Senior official of the bank that they are not having any

record of registered mobile number of the Complainant/the

correspondence between the Complainant and the Bank through

internet mode. Therefore, it is clearly established that it is a case

of "deficiency in Service" on the part of OP Bank as it had failed

to redress the grievance of the Respondent/Complainant with

regard to unauthorized transactions. 19. The judgment of case as relied upon by the Counsel for the

Appellant/OP i.e. " DAV Public School Vs. Senior Manager, Indian

Bank, Midnapur Branch & Ors. " 2020 (1) RCR Civil 594, wherein it

has been held the liability of the Appellant bank was for the first

transaction but not for the subsequent transaction. In the instant case,

the Respondent/Complainant had reported regarding all

unauthorized transactions vide No.SR377206559 i.e. in single

communication. Therefore , the said judgment is not applicable

case as the question of first transaction is not involved in the

present. 20. In light of above mentioned reasons, facts, documentary

evidence and circulars issued by the RBI, we find no force in the

contentions of learned Counsel for the Appellant. The order passed by

the District Commission is well-reasoned and no interference is F.A.No.93 of 2022 14 required by this Commission. Accordingly, the Appeal filed by the

Appellant is dismissed being devoid of any merit and the order

dated 29.11.2021 is upheld. 21. The Appellant had deposited an amount of Rs.97,850/- at

the time of filing the appeal with this Commission. Said amount, along

with interest, which has accrued on the amount deposited by the

appellants, if any, shall be remitted by the Registry to the District

Commission after the expiry of 45 days of sending of certified copy of

the order to the parties. The concerned party(s) may approach the

District Commission for release of the same and the District

Commission may pass the appropriate order in this regard, in

accordance with law. 22. Since the main case has been disposed off, so all the

pending miscellaneous applications, if any, are accordingly, disposed

off. 23. The Appeal could not be decided within the statutory period

due to heavy pendency of court cases. (JUSTICE DAYA CHAUDHARY)
 PRESIDENT

 (SIMARJOT KAUR)
 MEMBER

 (VISHAV KANT GARG)
 MEMBER
November 04, 2024
(Rupinder 2)