1. Vide this order, I shall dispose of an application moved by the
 applicant/defendant under Section 8 of the Arbitration & Conciliation
 Act, 1996 (in short the Act). 2. Brief facts relevant for disposal of this application are like
 this: plaintiff agreed for the same and in terms of lease deed dated
19.11.2012, the tenanted premises was let out to the defendant for a
period of 20 years at a monthly rent of Rs.7,800/­ (in short, the said
lease deed). (ii) That plaintiff as per the requirement, specifications and
directions of defendant renovated the tenanted premises and spent a
sum of Rs.65,000/­. Apart from that, plaintiff has incurred expenses
for installation of iron stairs, plumbing and shifting of water tank from
the tenanted premises to the tune of Rs.35,000 and Rs.30,000/­
respectively. (iii) That the defendant was supposed to install the transmission
tower/pole/mast and other related equipments on the tennated
premises, however, defendant failed to install the same for the reason
best known to the defendant. Plaintiff after waiting for few months
contacted the employees of defendant and requested them to install
the equipments on the tenanted premises as per the terms and
conditions of the lease deed and those employees had assured
plaintiff that very soon such equipments will be installed on the
tenanted premises. The plaintiff time and again approached the
employees of defendant and also made several calls to them for
payment of the rent of the tenanted premises and finally plaintiff in the
month of December, 2014 requested the employees of defendant to

 CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. install their equipments on the tenanted and pay the rent as per the
 terms and conditions of the lease deed. (iv) Plaintiff was shocked to receive notice dated 18.12.2014
 whereby the lease deed was terminated by the defendant without
 assigning any reason. The defendant did not pay the rent for a period
 of 26 months for the tenanted premises. Defendant neither paid rent
 for 3 months advance notice period nor paid the amount of
 Rs.65,000/­, i.e. the expenses borne by the plaintiff for renovation and
 installation of iron stairs. (v) That the defendant kept the tenanted premises for 266 months
 and thereby causes huge loses to the plaintiff, therefore, plaintiff sent
 legal notice dated 30.03.2015 and demanded the rent for the tenanted
 premises at the agreed rate. The defendant did not respond,
 therefore, the present suit has been filed for recovery of the suit
 amount. 3. Summons for settlement was issued to the defendant. Defendant appeared and moved an application under Section 8 of the
 Arbitration & Conciliation Act stating therein that defendant was
 looking for suitable property for installation of its telecommunication
 tower in order to loose its signal strength in the area so that its
 subscribers should not face any call drop or low signal while

 CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. accessing broadband internet services, voice call allied services etc.
 Plaintiff approached the defendant and showed his interest to rent the
 tenanted premises for setting up telecommunication tower and after
 due deliberation, the lease deed was entered into between the parties
 in respect of the tenanted premises. 4. The lease deed dated 19.11.2012 contained a clause­6
 for referring the dispute between the parties to the arbitrator,
 therefore, as per the mandate of Section 8 read with 5 of the Act and
 in view of the mandate of law laid down in Hindustan Petroleum
 Corporation Ltd. v. Pinkcity Midway Petrolems , (2003) 6 SCC 503,
 the plaint deserves to be returned to the plaintiff and parties may be
 directed to approach the ld. arbitrator as per the arbitration clause
 contained in the said deed. 5. Reply to this application has been filed by the plaintiff
 wherein the contents of the plaint are re­iterated and, inter­alia, it is
 submitted that the application is nothing but a gross mis­use of the
 process of law and filed with the sole intention to delay the trial in as
 much as defendant did not respond for more than six months, and
 suddenly appeared, when this court was about to pass an ex­parte
 order against the defendant, thereafter, instead of filing written
 statement, defendant filed the present application. It is submitted that
 the plaintiff has admitted the tenancy, the rate of rent as well as

 CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. factum of cancellation of lease deed and termination of the tenancy by
 the defendant, however, the lease deed is not registered, therefore,
 this court cannot look at or rely upon the said lease deed. The
 tenancy of law shall be treated as month to month basis tenancy as
 per mandate. 6. It has been contended by counsel for the defendant that,
 even if, the lease deed is not registered, arbitration clause is an
 independent and separate clause providing resolution of dispute
 without affecting substantive rights of the parties and as per mandate
 of 16 of the Act, the arbitration clause which forms part of the contract
 shall be treated as an agreement independent from the other terms of
 the contract. It is further submitted that and even if, it is held that the
 contract is null and void, the same shall not be invalidate the
 arbitration clause in the lease deed. It is further contended that as per
 mandate of Section 8 of the Act, the court is duty bound to dismiss the
 suit and refer the parties to arbitration. Arbitration clause did not
 govern rights and obligations arising out of substantive contract but
 only govern the way the dispute, if any, between the parties has to be
 adjudicated upon. In this regard reliane is placed upon Sasan Power
 Ltd. v. North American Coal Corporation India Pvt. Ltd. judgment
 passed in Civil Appeal No.8299/2016 by Hon'ble Supreme Court and A. Ayyasamy v. A.Paramasivam & Ors., VII (2016) SLT 254. CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. 7. It is further contended that the parties are free to agree on
 the procedure for resolution of the dispute and it is mandate of the
 superior courts that party autonomy is supreme for the purpose of
 arbitration in as much as parties can confer power to get their dispute
 resoled through arbitral tribunal. In this regard, reliance is placed
 upon Centroade Minerals and Metals Inc. v. Hindustan Copper
 Ltd. , (2017) 1 SLT 379; Union of India v. Uttar Pradesh State
 Bridge Corporation Ltd. , ( 2015) 2 SCC 52 and Booz Allen &
 Hamilton Inc. v. SBI Home Finance Limited and Ors., VI (2011)
 SLT 653. 8. It is further contended that once it is brought to the notice
 of the court that there is an arbitration clause between the parties then
 it is the bounden duty of the court to refer the parties to the arbitration
 as court ceases to exercise any jurisdiction over the dispute. In this
 regard, reliance is placed upon P.Anand Gajapathi Raju v.
 P.V.G.Raju (Dead ), (2000) 4 SLT 123; Sundaram Finane Ltd. v.
 T.Thankam , ( 2015) 2 SLT 575 and Hema Khattar & Anr. v. Shiv
 Khera , (2017) 4 SLT 430. 9. It is further contended that even if the lease deed is not
 registered, the arbitration clause contained in the said un­registered
 lease deed is an independent and separate agreement to the
 substantive agreement and did not require registration for

 CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. invocation of the said arbitration clause. Reliance is placed upon Trans World Finance & Real Estate Co. Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of
 India 97 (2002) DLT 767; Parasvnath Developers Ltd. & Ors.
 vs. Rail Land Development Authority in Arbitration Petition
 No.724/2018 judgment passed by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi; Garware Wall Ropers Ltd. vs Coastal Marine Constructions,
 Vol.II (2019) SLT 678; Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corporation judgment passed in civil appeal 2402/2019 by Hon'ble Supreme
 Court (in short Vidya Drolia I); Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading
 Corporation (2021) 2 SCC 1 (in short Vidya Drolia II); N.N.Global
 Mercantile Pvt. Ltd. v. M/s Indo Unique Flame Ltd., 2021 SCC Online
 SC 13 and SMS Tea Estates (P) Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co (P) Ltd . (2011) 14 SCC 66. 10. Per contra, counsel for the plaintiff has contended that
 despite the fact that defendant has admitted the factum of existence of
 the un­registered lease deed, the rate of rent and nature of the
 tenancy, however, the defendant has sought invocation of Section 8 of the Act relying on the arbitration clause contained in unregistered
 lease deed. The unregistered lease deed cannot be looked into for
 any purpose except for collateral purpose as per Section 49 of the
 Indian Registration Act. Reliance is placed upon National Textiles
 Corporation and Anr. v. Ashval Vaderaa judgment passed by
 Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in CRP No.166/2007. CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. 11. It is further contended that apart from lease deed not
 registered there is a violation of the provision of the Stamp Act and,
 therefore, this arbitration clause can neither be invoked nor this lease
 deed can be acted upon and this lease deed deserved to be
 impounded as per the provision of the Stamp Act . In this regard
 reliance is placed upon M/s Dharmaratnakara Rai Bahadur Arcot
 Narainswamy Mudaliar Chattram & Other Charities & Ors. v.
 Bhaskar Raju & Others , 2020 SCC Online Online SC 183; Himgiri
 Enterprises v. Kanwaljeet Singh Ahluwalia, 2017 Law Suit (SC)
 1020. 12. I have heard ld. counsels for the parties and have through
 the records as well as the written submissions filed by the parties
 including the case laws relied upon by counsels for the parties. 13. It may be noted that the said lease deed dated
 19.11.2012 contains the arbitral clause, which is reproduced as
 under : 15 (fifteen days) days, or such extended time as may be
 mutually agreed, failing which, such dispute or difference
 shall be referred to a sold arbitrator appointed by the
 Lessee. The place of arbitration shall be at Mumbai and
 the language of the arbitration shall be English. The
 arbitration shall be in accordance with the Arbitration &
 Conciliation Act, 1996 or any statutory modification or re­
 enactment thereof. The award of the arbitrator shall be
 final and binding on the parties. 14. Therefore, as per the above said clause, any dispute that
 arises between the parties should only be resolved through arbitration,
 and no civil court should have the jurisdiction in the matter. 15. At this stage, it is necessary to extract Section 8 of the
 Arbitration & Conciliation Act, which is as under : CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. (3) Notwithstanding that an application has been made
 under Sub­section (1) and that the issue is pending before
 the judicial authority, an arbitration may be commenced or
 continued and an arbitral award made." 16. A bare perusal of the above said provision makes it
 clear that no court will have jurisdiction, if it is expressly or impliedly
 barred by any law. However, so far as the express bar is specified
 in the above provision is with regard to the existence of the
 arbitration agreement. The factum of the Arbitration clause is not
 denied by the parties in their pleadings. Section 8 clearly stipulates
 that whenever a suit is filed in a civil court the cause of the action of
 the said suit emanates from a contract in which parties have
 voluntarily and willingly agreed to settle the dispute by arbitration. If
 such conditions are met, then it is bounden duty of the court to refer
 the parties to arbitration. It is mandatory that the essentials of Section 8 of Arbitration and conciliation Act are fulfilled the
 procedure contemplates therein has to be as followed as such.
 when a party approaches the Civil Court for redressal of disputes
 and the different who alleges that there is an arbitral clause for the
 resolution of disputes arising between them should be prudent
 enough to follow the conditions enumerated under Section 8 of the
 Act, 1996. As Section 8 is the only provision in the act, which
 entitles a party seeking a referral to arbitration, in a pending suit.
 Even if there is arbitration agreement between the parties, the onus

 CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. is on the party claim to have approached the Court under Section 8 of the Act. So is the ratio of other case law relied upon on this
 issue and, in particular, in Sasan Power (supra), it has been
 observed as under : 17. By placing reliance on Himgiri Enterprises (supra), Dharmaratnakara Rai (supra), and National Textile (supra), the
 contention of ld. Counsel for the plaintiff, apart from the issue of
 arbitrability, is that the dispute in question cannot be referred to the
 ld.arbitrator in as much as the said lease deed is neither registered
 nor sufficiently stamped as per the provisions of the Indian Stamp
 Act . 18. It may be noted that in Natraj Studios (P) Ltd vs
 Navrang Studios & Anr 1981 1 SCC 523, it was held that the

 CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. dispute between landlord and tenant under Bombay Rent, Hotel
 and Lodging House Rent Act cannot be referred to an Arbitrator. 19. It was held in Booz Allen & Hamilton (supra) that a
 suit to enforce a mortgage must be decided by court of law and not
 by arbitral Tribunal that every civil or commercial dispute which can
 be decided by a court, is in principle capable of being adjudicated
 and resolved by arbitration, unless it is excluded expressly (as a
 matter of public policy) or by necessary implication and the the
 Court enumerated examples of non­arbitrable disputes. Regarding
 landlord­tenant disputes, the Court stated in obiter that tenancy
 disputes are not arbitrable when (i) the eviction or tenancy matters
 are governed by special statutes; (ii) the tenant enjoys statutory
 protection against eviction; and (iii) only specified courts are
 conferred jurisdiction to grant eviction or decide the disputes. 20. It may be noted that in SMS Tea Estates Pvt. Ltd. (supra), while dealing with the question as whether an Arbitration
 Agreement in an unregistered (but compulsorily registrable)
 instrument is valid and enforceable, the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 opined as under:­
 "7. When a contract contains an arbitration agreement, it
 is a collateral term relating to the resolution of disputes,
 unrelated to the performance of the contract. It is as if two

 CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. contracts ­ one in regard to the substantive terms of the
main contract and the other relating to resolution of
disputes ­ had been rolled into one, for purposes of
convenience. An arbitration clause is therefore an
agreement independent of the other terms of the contract
or the instrument. Resultantly, even if the contract or its
performance is terminated or comes to an end on account
of repudiation, frustration or breach of contract, the
arbitration agreement would survive for the purpose of
resolution of disputes arising under or in connection with
the contract. Similarly, when an instrument or deed of
transfer (or a document affecting immovable property)
contains an arbitration agreement, it is a collateral term
relating to resolution of disputes, unrelated to the transfer
or transaction affecting the immovable property. It is as if
two documents ­ one affecting the immovable property
requiring registration and the other relating to resolution of
disputes which is not compulsorily registrable ­ are rolled
into a single instrument. Therefore, even if a deed of
transfer of immovable property is challenged as not valid
or enforceable, the arbitration agreement would remain
unaffected for the purpose of resolution of disputes
arising with reference to the deed of transfer."
XXXXX

 CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. 16. It is trite that the law clearly provides that lease of
immovable property from year to year, or for any term
exceeding one year, can be made only by a registered
instrument [ Section 17(1)(d) of the Registration Act, 1908
and Section 107 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882]
and that Section 49 of the Registration Act sets out the
effect of non­registration to be that if a document which is
compulsorily registrable, if not registered, will not affect
any immovable property comprised therein in any manner
nor would be received as evidence of any transaction
affecting such property except for two limited purposes,
viz., as evidence of a contract in a suit for specific
performance and as evidence of any collateral transaction
not required to be effected by registered instrument
[Proviso to Section 49 of the Registration Act]. In the
present case, the first exception is clearly not applicable,
this being a dispute premised on a Lease Deed. It is the
second exception which is sought to be pressed into
service by the counsel for the Petitioner by submitting that
the Petitioner seeks recovery of the security deposit and
not the enforcement of the Lease Deed dated
04.07.2011." CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. 21. A bare perusal of the above said paras depict that
 Hon'ble Supreme Court delved into two issues, namely, (I) whether
 arbitration agreement in unregistered documents are valid and (ii)
 whether arbitration agreements in unstamped documents are valid.
 On the first issue the court held that arbitration agreement does not
 require registration in the light of the proviso to Section 49 of the
 Registration Act, 1908. The Hon'ble Supreme Court based on the
 doctrine of severability held that agreement being independent of
 the main contract is valid. However, on the second issue the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court held that Section 35 of the Stamp Act does
 not provide a similar provision and therefore, arbitration agreement
 cannot be enforced in unstamped document. 22. So far as the reliance on Himgiri (supra) is concerned,
 it may be noted that the ratio of Himgiri (supra) has been taken
 note of in Vidya Drolia­I, wherein it has been observed: been answered by the two decisions of this Court, as
has been stated in paragraph 18 of the said judgment . 20. The said judgment then goes on to state: 21. It may be noticed that none of the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act have been noticed by this
judgment. In fact, none of the aforesaid provisions
would indicate that disputes under the said Act are
triable only by the civil court and not by arbitration, as
has been held in this paragraph. It is clear that the Transfer of Property Act is silent on arbitrability, and
does not negate arbitrability. 22. In a similar situation, this court in Olympus
Superstructures Pvt. Ltd. v. Meena Vijay Khetan and
Others , (1999) 5 SCC 651, held that when it came to
the grant of specific performance, there is no
prohibition in the Specific Relief Act that issues relating
to specific performance cannot be referred to
arbitration, unlike the English statute. CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. 23. Equally, because a discretion had to be exercised
 by the court on whether or not to grant specific
 performance, would not militate against specific
 performance being granted {see paragraph 44, in
 particular of Booz Allen (supra)}. It is clear, therefore,
 that the judgment in Himangi Enterprises (supra) will
 require a relook by a Bench of three Hon'ble Judges of
 this court. 23. In Vidya Drolia­I, the Court held that a dispute
 between landlord­tenant governed by TP Act was never covered
 under either Natraj Studios (as this was a case under Bombay Rent
 Act) or Booz Allen (as this was a case involving enforcement of
 mortgage which was a right in rem). The Court differed with its
 judgment in Himangni Enterprises and held that the decision was
 not based on sound reasoning. It held that merely because the
 government could withdraw the exemption (from the applicability of Delhi Rent Act ) would not render the dispute in arbitrable. The
 Court agreed that if the Delhi Rent Act becomes inapplicable, the
 dispute would be governed by TP Act . However, it was not
 convinced that an arbitrator could not decide landlord­tenancy
 matters governed under TP Act . Analysing the provisions of the TP
 Act (particularly Sections 111 , 114 and 114A , which specifically
 cover landlord­tenants' rights and liabilities), the Court held that the

 CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. disputes under TP Act can be decided by an arbitrator, and there is
 nothing in the TP Act that prohibits arbitrability. 24. A bare perusal of the abovesaid para depicts that the
 ratio of Himgiri Enterprises (supra) was required to be relooked by
 a larger bench. Having thus found itself at odds with its judgment
 in Himangni Enterprises, the Hon'ble Supreme Court referred the
 matter to a larger bench of three judges, which culminated in the
 passing of Vidya Drolia­II judgment. 25. In Vidya Drolia­II, regarding arbitrability, it has been
 observed as under : (b) Scope of judicial review and jurisdiction of the court
under Section 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act is identical
but extremely limited and restricted. (c) The general rule and principle, in view of the
legislative mandate clear from Act 3 of 2016 and Act 33 of
2019, and the principle of severability and competence­
competence, is that the arbitral tribunal is the preferred
first authority to determine and decide all questions of
non­arbitrability. The court has been conferred power of
second look on aspects of non­ arbitrability post the
award in terms of sub­clauses (i), (ii) or (iv) of Section
34(2)(a) or sub­clause (i) of Section 34(2)(b) of the
Arbitration Act. CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. (d) Rarely as a demurrer the court may interfere at the Section 8 or 11 stage when it is manifestly and ex facie
 certain that the arbitration agreement is non­ existent,
 invalid or the disputes are non­arbitrable, though the
 nature and facet of non­arbitrability would, to some
 extent, determine the level and nature of judicial scrutiny.
 The restricted and limited review is to check and protect
 parties from being forced to arbitrate when the matter is
 demonstrably non­arbitrable and to cut off the deadwood.
 The court by default would refer the matter when
 contentions relating to non­arbitrability are plainly
 arguable; when consideration in summary proceedings
 would be insufficient and inconclusive; when facts are
 contested; when the party opposing arbitration adopts
 delaying tactics or impairs conduct of arbitration
 proceedings. This is not the stage for the court to enter
 into a mini trial or elaborate review so as to usurp the
 jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal but to affirm and uphold
 integrity and efficacy of arbitration as an alternative
 dispute resolution mechanism. 26. In Vidya Drolia­II, the Court laid down a four­fold test to
 determine the arbitrability of disputes. It held that a dispute would
 be inarbitrable when: CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. iii) it relates to the inalienable sovereign and public interest
 functions of the state; and iv) it is expressly or by necessary implication non­arbitrable as
 per mandatory statute(s). 27. In Vidya Drolia­II, broad principles has been set out
 regarding arbitrability of dispute. It has been laid down that the
 landlord and tenant dispute under the transfer of property Act and
 not under any special Statute, (such as State ­Specific Rent
 Legislation etc.) could be arbitrable. In addition to it, Vidya Drolia­
 II, judgment also demarcates the scope of inquiry by courts in
 determining question of arbitrability at the pre­arbitration/reference
 stage under Section 8 & 11 of the Act, along with issues relating to
 the arbitrability of dispute involving fraud and debt recovery,
 amongst others. 28. Thereafter, Hon'ble Supreme Court in N.N. Global (supra)
 has laid down law regarding arbitrability and has held as under : 12. We are of the considered view that the finding in SMS
Tea Estates and Garware that the non­payment of stamp
duty on the commercial contract would invalidate even the
arbitration agreement, and render it non­existent in law,
and un­enforceable, is not the correct position in law. In view of the finding in paragraph 92 of the judgment in
Vidya Drolia by a co­ordinate bench, which has affirmed
the judgment in Garware, the aforesaid issue is required
to be authoritatively settled by a Constitution bench of this

 CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. Court. We consider it appropriate to refer the following
 issue, to be authoritatively settled by a Constitution bench
 of five judges of this Court : 29. From the above discussion, it can be safely concluded
 that the landlord and tenant dispute are arbitrable as per the mandate
 of law laid down in SMS Tea Estate, Vidya Drolia­I and Vidya Drolia­II
 and N.N.Global (supra). It may also be noted that in N.N.Global
 (supra) the Hon'ble Supreme Court also expressed some important
 views regarding arbitrabality of void and voidable agreements. In SMS
 Tea Estate (supra), it was held that an arbitration agreement tis
 voidable at the option of a party and, therefore, the court has a power
 to adjudicate upon the same. However, in N.N.Global (supra), it was
 held that issue regarding a contract being void and voidable can be
 referred to arbitration in as much as allegation regarding contract being
 voidable are to be proved through evidence which can be assessed
 through arbitrator. Furthermore, only when the court is satisfied that
 the contract is void upon reading of the contract without any additional
 evidence the court can refuse to refer the parties to arbitration. This
 judgment furthered pro­arbitration approach in India and Hon'ble

 CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. Supreme court has restricted its jurisdiction to merely examine the
 existence of arbitration agreement. Hon'ble Supreme Court re­
 enforced the competence of the arbitral tribunal to determine issue
 with respect to the void and voidable nature of the contract as well as
 cases of fraud. This further boosted the autonomy of the arbitrator and
 established them as competent as other judicial officer in handling
 complex dispute. The issue of arbitrability of dispute is to be decided
 by the ld.arbitrator and not by the court except for the limited purpose
 for satisfying that, prima facie, there is a dispute between the parties,
 which is required to be referred to arbitration. Needless to say that
 non registration of said lease deed is no ground to reject the
 application in as much as dispute between landlord and tenant as per
 the arbitration clause contained in the unregistered lease deed can be
 referred to the ld.arbitrator, as per mandate of the law laid down by
 superior courts. 30. After having delve upon question of arbitrability of the
 dispute as per the mandate laid down by Hon'ble Supreme Court, and
 that the arbitrator can be appointed in respect of the dispute between
 landlord and tenant even in case of an unregistered lease deed, this
 court would like to deal with the contention of the counsel for the
 plaintiff that an insufficiently stamped lease deed is legally inadmissible
 and liable to be impounded, therefore, arbitrator cannot be appointed
 in terms of the insufficiently stamped lease deed/document. CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. 31. So far as the said lease deed is not sufficiently stamped,
 suffice is to say that in SMS Tea Estate (supra), it was observed that a
 document containing arbitration clause or an independent arbitration
 agreement which is insufficiently stamped is not enforceable in Indian
 Courts for Arbitration under Part­I of the Act. The same position was
 reiterated by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Garware Wall (supra)
 and Dharmaratnakara (supra), the principle laid down in SMS Tea
 Estate (supra) has been reaffirmed. However, in Dharmaratnakara (supra), the directions were issued to the parties to pay the deficient
 court fees, however, the parties failed to pay the deficient stamp duty
 and the Hon'ble High Court relied upon the such insufficiently stamped
 lease deed and in this context the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held
 that when a lease deed or any other instrument is relied upon as
 containing an arbitration agreement, at the outset, the court must
 consider whether the instrument is properly stamped or not. 32. The question regarding the reference of the matter to ld.
 Arbitrator in case the lease deed/documents is insufficiently stamped
 was taken care of in the judgment N.N. Global (supra), wherein the SMS Tea Estate (supra) and Garware (supra ) has been over ruled ,
 which has already been reproduced in foregoing paras. However, it
 was further observed as under:­

 CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. that after the document is duly stamped, it shall be admissible in
evidence, and may be acted upon. 6.8 In our view, the decision in
SMS Tea Estates does not lay down the correct position in law on two
issues i.e. (i) that an arbitration agreement in an unstamped
commercial contract cannot be acted upon, or is rendered un­
enforceable in law; and (ii) that an arbitration agreement would be
invalid where the contract or instrument is voidable at the option of a
party, such as u/S. 19 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. We hold that since the arbitration agreement is an independent
agreement between the parties, and is not chargeable to payment of
stamp duty, the non­payment of stamp duty on the commercial
contract, would not invalidate the arbitration clause, or render it un­
enforceable, since it has an independent existence of its own. The
view taken by the Court on the issue of separability of the arbitration
clause on the registration of the substantive contract, ought to have
been followed even with respect to the Stamp Act . The non­payment
of stamp duty on the substantive contract would not invalidate even
the main contract. It is a deficiency which is curable on the payment of
the requisite Stamp Duty. 6.9 The second issue in SMS Tea Estates that a voidable contract
would not be arbitrable as it affects the validity of the arbitration
agreement, is in our view not the correct position in law. The
allegations made by a party that the substantive contract has been

 CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. obtained by coercion, fraud, or misrepresentation has to be proved by
leading evidence on the issue. These issues can certainly be
adjudicated through arbitration. We overrule the judgment in SMS Tea
Estates with respect to the aforesaid two issues as not laying down the
correct position in law. 6.10 The Garware judgment has followed the
judgment in SMS Tea Estates. The Counsel for the Appellant has
placed reliance on paragraph 22 of the judgment to contend that the
arbitration clause would be non­ existent in law, and unenforceable, till
Stamp Duty is adjudicated and paid on the substantive contract. We hold that this finding is erroneous, and does not lay down the
correct position in law. We have already held that an arbitration
agreement is distinct and independent from the underlying substantive
commercial contract. Once the arbitration agreement is held to have
an independent existence, it can be acted upon, irrespective of the
alleged invalidity of the commercial contract. 6.11 We notice that the judgment in Garware Wall Ropes Limited has
been cited with approval by a co­ordinate bench of this Court in Vidya
Drolia & Ors. v. Durga Trading Corporation.28 Paragraph 92 of the
judgment reads thus : had drawn a distinction between the first and second
part of Section 7(2) of the Arbitration Act, albeit the
observations made and quoted above with reference
to existence and validity of the arbitration agreement
being apposite and extremely important, we would
repeat the same by reproducing paragraph 29 thereof : We consider it appropriate to refer the findings in
paras 22 and 29 of Garware Wall Ropes Limited,
which has been affirmed in paragraph 92 of Vidya
Drolia, to a Constitution Bench of five judges." CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. 7. The next issue which arises is as to which authority would
exercise the power of impounding the instrument under Section
33 read with Section 34 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, in a
case where the substantive contract contains an arbitration
agreement. 7.1 In an arbitration agreement, the disputes may be referred to
arbitration by three modes. a) The first mode is where the appointment of the arbitrator
takes place by the parties consensually in accordance with the
terms of the arbitration agreement, or by a designated arbitral
institution, without the intervention of the court. In such a case,
the arbitrator / tribunal is obligated by Section 33 of the Indian
Stamp Act, 1899 (or the applicable State Act) to impound the
instrument, and direct the parties to pay the requisite Stamp
Duty (and penalty, if any), and obtain an endorsement from the
concerned Collector. This would be evident from the provisions of Section 34 of the
Stamp Act which provides that any person having by law or
consent of parties authority to receive evidence is mandated by
law to impound the instrument, and direct the parties to pay the
requisite stamp duty. b) The second mode of appointment is where the parties fail to
make the appointment in accordance with the arbitration
agreement, and an application is filed under Section 11 before
the Court to invoke the default power for making the
appointment. In such a case, the High Court, or the Supreme Court, as the
case may be, while exercising jurisdiction under Section 11 ,
would impound the substantive contract which is either
unstamped or inadequately stamped, and direct the parties to

 CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. cure the defect before the arbitrator / tribunal can adjudicate
 upon the contract. c) The third mode is when an application is filed under Section 8 before a judicial authority for reference of disputes to arbitration,
 since the subject matter of the contract is covered by an
 arbitration agreement. In such a case, the judicial authority will
 make the reference to arbitration. However, in the meanwhile,
 the parties would be directed to have the substantive contract
 stamped in accordance with the provisions of the relevant Stamp Act , so that the rights and obligations emanating from
 the substantive contract can be adjudicated upon." 33. A bare perusal of the above said paras depicts that an
arbitrator can be appointed for a dispute between landlord tenant dispute
even, in case of an insufficiently stamped lease deed/document
containing an arbitration clause. It was mandated by Hon'ble Supreme
Court that stamp duties as a mere fiscal measure to secure revenue and
based on severalbility, it was held that an arbitration agreement is a
distinct from a commercial agreement and would survive independently
on the main contract. Hence if the main contract is unstamped, it will not
render the arbitration agreement as unenforceable. However, Hon'ble
Supreme Court has further held that the adjudication of the substantive
rights and obligation could not proceed till the provision of stamp duty
were complied with. 34. From the above discussion, it can be safely concluded that
an arbitration clause as provided in an unsufficiently stamped lease

 CS No.687/2017 (515787/2016)
 Ashok Kumar Rana v. M/s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. deed/document can be enforced and arbitrator can be appointed subject
to the impounding of such insufficiently stamped lease deed/document
and payment of the penalties so imposed by the competent authority
under the Indian Stamp Act as per law. 35. In view of the contention raised by the counsel for the plaintiff
did not hold water and the same appears to be attractive but found to be
falacious and, therefore, deserves to be rejected and is hereby rejected.
Resultantly, this application under Section 8 of the Act is allowed and
disposed of accordingly. Parties are directed to invoke the aribtration proceedings, as
per the arbitration clause provided in the lease deed. Reader of the court is directed to impound the "lease deed"