1. This is a revision petition filed by the original defendant against the plaintiffs-opponents under Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code. The opponents filed a Civil Suit No. 31 of 1967 in the Court of the Civil Judge. (J.D.) Talaja for recovery of possession of suit land from the petitioner. According to them, they are the owners of the suit land and are in possession of it. The petitioner obstructs their possession and has made an application in the Mamlatdar's Court to have it mutated to her name, claiming the land to be hers. 2. The petitioner filed a written statement on 24th July, 1967 and denied the claim of the opponents and challenged the maintainability of the suit. 3. On 9th February, 1968. by an application Ex. 21, she sought permission for an amendment of a written statement By that application she wanted to take up three further contentions in regard to maintainability of the suit. One of them was that there was a previous suit between the parties and due to the

decision given in that suit, the suit was barred by res judicata. Another contention was that, the suit being a suit for taking possession of the suit land on the ground of ownership, the market value of the land being over 10,000/- rupees at the date of the suit, the Court has no jurisdiction to hear the suit. The alternative contention that was to be taken up was that the suit was barred by limitation. Another alternative contention was about adverse possession. 4. The learned Civil Judge, Junior Division, Talaja, Mr. R.H. Nanavati, rejected this application on the ground that the suit was filed on 24th July, 1967 and there was absolutely nothing to prevent the defendant from taking up all the contentions that she now proposes to take. Merely, because the proposed contentions are important, they cannot now be permitted to be taken up. All the proposed contentions are new. He, therefore, does not see any reason to allow that application at that stage. On these grounds, the application has been rejected by the learned Civil Judge. This is one oi the impugned orders which is assailed in this revision application by the petitioner. Another application, Ex. 22 was given stating that the value of the subject-matter being over Rs. 10.000/-, the Court has no jurisdiction to hear the suit. She therefore, prayed that before hearing of the suit commenced, Mamlatdar or any other officer be appointed as a Commissioner for making the valuation of the land which according to the petitioner, can be valued at Rs. 35,000/-. That application was also rejected stating that the applicant may lead evidence herself to substantiate her contention, if permissible. The petitioner has come in revision against that order also. 5. The learned Advocate Mr. Parikh, appearing on behalf of the petitioner, firstly contended that the learned Civil Judge had committed an illegality by ignoring the provisions of law and thereby had failed to exercise the jurisdiction vested in him. He urged that before the recording of evidence commenced, the petitioner had sought permission to allow her to amend the written statement. The contentions which the petitioner intended to. take up by that amendment were very material contentions and most of them were contentions of law, which would go to the root of the case, if the petitioner succeeded in showing the soundness of those contentions. He conceded to the position that those contentions were new contentions. The amendment application, which sought for a permission to take up those contentions, cannot be rejected on the aforesaid grounds. These were the additional grounds which the petitioner wanted to urge in support of her say that the suit was not maintain- able as well as entertainable and should be dismissed. She was not making out any new case. These were the only new grounds to support her case that the suit was not maintainable and the suit should be dismissed on that ground. 6. He also invited my attention to the provisions of Order 6, Rule 17 of the Civil Procedure Code. He also urged that the present case would also be covered by Clause (a) or (b) of Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code, as the petitioner wants to take up a contention regarding jurisdiction. The petitioner also wants to take up a contention regarding res judicata. She wants to take up a contention regarding limitation. All these questions are questions which, if decided in favour of the petitioner, would go to the root of the case and the suit would be liable to be dismissed on those grounds. It was, therefore, urged that the present case was also covered by Clause (a) or (b) of Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code. In my opinion, this argument of Mr. Parikh is not well founded. The Court has not decided the correctness or otherwise of these contentions. What the Court has decided is whether this amendment application should be allowed or not. The question therefore, that really arises for consideration will be whether the case is covered by Clause (c) of Section 115 of the C. P. Code or not. 7. The learned Counsel Mr. D.U. Shah, appearing on behalf of the opponents, firstly, contended that the present case could not be said to be a case decided within the meaning of Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code. He, therefore, urged that no rights of the parties have been decided finally. Part of the controversy between the parties has not been decided. That being the position, the present case could not be said to be a case decided within the meaning of Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code. He invited my attention to a decision of a Division Bench of this Court in support of his argument. 8. In the case of Prabhudas v. Bhogilal , 1967-8 Guj LR 649 = (AIR 1968 Guj 236), a Division Bench of this Court has made the following observations:-- 9. In the body of the judgment, at page 653 (of Guj LR) = (at p. 238 of AIR) Bhagwati, J., as he then was, speaking on behalf of the Division Bench, referred to the decision of the Supreme Court in S.S. Khanna v. P.J. Dillon, AIR 1954 SC 497 and made the following observations: Applying those tests, it was held by the Division Bench that the question whether particular documents were promissory notes and eventually inadmissible in evidence on account of insufficiency of stamp was a question which having been decided by the trial Court, was a case decided within the meaning of Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code. In the instant case, this petitioner wanted to amend the written statement and by that amendment, she wanted to take up certain questions which would go to the root of the case, if she succeeded in showing that those contentions were well founded. 10. Order 6, Rule 17 of the Civil Procedure Code runs as under :-- A plain reading of that rule indicates that amendment can be allowed at any stage of the proceedings. The learned trial Judge was, therefore, not at all justified in rejecting this amendment application on the ground that this amendment application has been given after a long-time. No doubt, the Court is empowered in an appropriate case to put the petitioner who wants to amend the application to terms. This rule further lays down that all such amendments shall be made as may be necessary for the purpose of determining the real questions in controversy between the parties. In the instant case, by this application, the petitioner wants to take up such contentions. For determining the real questions in controversy between the parties, it was necessary to allow this amendment. That has been refused by the learned trial Judge. If this amendment application is not allowed the direct and necessary consequence would be that this petitioner would be prevented from taking up these contentions and show to the Court that the suit is not maintainable. If this amendment is allowed and if the petitioner succeeds in her contentions, she would be able to show that this suit should be thrown out on these grounds. The direct and necessary consequence of refusing such an amendment is that this petitioner is deprived of showing that this suit is not maintainable as well as entertainable by the trial Court In my opinion, the present case will be covered within the ratio laid down by a Division Bench of this Court. It will be covered by the second part, namely; 11. The learned Advocate Mr. Parikh Invited my attention to a decision given by Raju J. in the case of Shantilal Chuni-lal V. Shantilal Fulchand. 1963-4 Guj LR 698 = (AIR 1963 Guj 195). in support of his argument, that the present case would be a case decided within the meaning of Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code. It was also a case regarding an application for amending the plaint. After reviewing several authorities and the relevant wordings of Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code, the following observations have been made:-- 'I, therefore, agree with the view taken by the Calcutta and Madras High Courts that the order passed on an interlocutory application does amount to a case decided.'" I am also in respectful agreement with the principle enunciated by the Madras High Court in that decision. I am also in respectful agreement with Raju J. that a case like the present case would be a case decided within the meaning of the words "case decided" referred to in S 115 of the Civil Procedure Code. I. therefore, reject the argument of the learned Counsel Mr. Shah that the present case is not a case decided within the meaning of Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code. 12. It has been next contended by the learned Counsel Mr. Shah that the present case would not fall within any of the Clauses (a), (b) or (c) of Section 115 of

the Civil Procedure Code. The impugned order, therefore, cannot be revised by this Court in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction. In support of his argument also, he relied upon a decision of a Division Bench of this Court (1967) 8 Gui LR 649 = (AIR 1968 Guj 236) to which I have made a reference earlier. 13. Bhagwati J., as he then was speaking for the Division Bench, has referred to several authorities and especially the decision of the Supreme Court in Abbasbhai v. Gulamnabi . AIR 1964 SC 1341: (p. 655 of Guj LR)=(at p. 239 of AIR), and quoted the following observations made by the Supreme Court: After quoting those observations of the Supreme Court, the following observations have been made at page 655 of (Guj LR)=(at p. 239 of AIR): In para 8, at pages 656 and 657 (of Guj LR) = (at pp. 239-240 of AIR), the scope and ambit of Clause (c) of Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code has been referred. The relevant observations made therein are as under: This is a correct test laid down and I am in respectful agreement with it and I am also bound by that decision, it being a decision of a Division Bench of this Court. Applying that test in the present case, it is quite clear that this is a case where the Court has acted illegally or with material irregularity in the exercise of its jurisdiction. The Court, while refusing the amendment application, acted illegally. The reason is that it has acted in breach of the provisions of law, embodied in Order 6, Rule 17 of the Civil Procedure Code. I am, therefore of opinion that the present case is covered by Clause (c) of Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code. 14. The learned Advocate Mr. Parikh, in support of his argument that this case will be covered by Clause (c) of Section 115 of the Civil procedure Code, invited my attention to the decision of Ra.iu J. In the case of (1963) 4 Guj LR 698 = (AIR 1963 Guj 195), to which also, I have made a reference earlier. The relevant observations are at page 701 (of Guj LR) = (at pp. 197-198 of AIR) in the following terms:-- 15. It Is contended by the learned Counsel Mr. Shah for the opponents that this decision of a single Judge of this Court runs counter to the statement of law made by a Division Bench of this Court referred to by me earlier and also to the decision of the Supreme Court. In my opinion, there is nothing to indicate that this statement of law made by Raju J. runs in any manner counter to the statement of law made by this Court or the Supreme Court. I, therefore, held that the present case will be covered by Clause (c) of Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code. 16. The learned Advocate Mr. Parikh also invited my attention to the case of Ishwarlal v. State of Maharashtra , (1966) 7 Guj LB 589. Mehta J. has made the following observations: In this decision, several decisions of the Supreme Court and decisions of other High Courts have been reviewed. In para 3 at p. 590 the following observations have been made:-- In the instant case also, the Court rejected this amendment on the ground that these are the new contentions taken up. Order 6, Rule 17 of the Civil procedure Code does not prevent the party taking up such contentions even at a later stage. The Court has, therefore, really committed an error relating to jurisdiction The Court acted illegally and with material irregularity in relation to the procedure also, which may ultimately affect the decision of the suit. The present case is, therefore, a case covered by Clause (c) of Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure and it does require interference by this Court in exercise of its revisional jurisdiction. 17. Coming next to the rejection of application, Ex. 22. the Court, while rejecting that application has stated that the applicant may lead evidence herself to substantiate her contention. The order passed by the Court below Ex. 21, refusing the petitioner to amend her written statement, is being set aside. The petitioner will, therefore, be entitled to take up the contentions which she wants now to raise, as mentioned in her application Ex. 21. It is not necessary that the Court should appoint a Mamlatdar or any other officer for the purpose of making valuation of the subject-matter of the suit. The petitioner will have liberty to lead evidence on that point. The opponents can also lead evidence to show that the value of the subject-matter of the suit is as has been contended by them, I, therefore, find that that order passed below, Ex. 22, cannot be assailed in this revision petition I, therefore, do not see any justifiable reason to interfere with that order in the exercise of revisional jurisdiction. 18. The revision petition is partly allowed. The order passed below Ex. 21 on 17th February, 1967 is set aside and the petitioner is permitted to amend her written statement as prayed for, in Ex. 21. The petitioner's prayer of setting aside the order passed below Ex, 22 is rejected. Rule is modified. 19. Taking into consideration the circumstances of the case, each party is ordered to bear its own costs. 20. It is clarified that by rejection of a prayer in relation to the order passed

below Ex. 22, the petitioner will not be precluded to request the Court to try the issue regarding jurisdiction after the issues are framed as a preliminary issues and allow the parties to lead evidence on that point for showing the value of the subject-matter at the date of the suit.