The present Writ Petitions are filed under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India and since the issue in all the Writ Petitions is

similar, they are being disposed of by this common order. 2. The batch of Writ Petitions are filed to issue a writ order or

direction more particularly one in the nature of writ of mandamus to
 «

declare the inquiry conducted under Section 51 of the Andhra Pradesh

Cooperative Societies Act, 1964 (for short, 'the Act 1964') by the

respondent No.8, i.e.. Inquiry Officer/Assistant Registrar, Office of the

Sub-Divisional Cooperative Officer, in the affairs of the Primary

Agricultural Cooperative Society, and the consequential proceedings

Rc.No.706/2022-C dated 05.06.2023, as illegal, arbitrary and against

the principles of natural justice and also contrary to the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Cooperative Societies Act, 1964 (for short, 'the Act

1964'), and also in violation of Articles 14 , 21 and 300A of the

Constitution of India and, consequently, prayed to set aside the 2 instructions given by the respondent No.4 to the respondents 5 and 6 to

initiate criminal, civil and disciplinary proceedings against the petitioner.

CONTENTS OF INQUIRY REPORT: 3. An enquiry under Section 51 of the'Act 1964 was conducted into

the affairs of Reddypalem Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society and

other Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies. As seen from the

impugned order dated 31.05.2023, the Deputy Registrar of Cooperative

Societies and Divisional Cooperative Officer, who conducted periodical

inspection of the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society (PACS) for

the period from 01.04.2021 to 30.09.2021, and observed that fake loans

were granted and submitted preliminary report stating that they have

identified certain irregular loans issued by the petitioners and

recommended for inquiry under Section 51 of the Act 1964. 4. Accordingly, the 4*'^ respondent-District Cooperative Officer,

Guntur, ordered an inquiry under Section 51 of the Act 1964 into the

affairs of the Reddypalem PACS and other PACSs. 5. As seen from the inquiry report, which is impugned in the present

Writ Petition that it conveys or transpires or communicate that the Chief

Executive Officer of the Society recorded in the minutes that the 3 f

 petitioners'-herein have granted membership, as if the meeting was

 conducted for issuance of the membership and on the same day, loans

 were granted to the said members and the committee members have

 not signed on the minutes, but at the same time, the three member

 Managing Committee signed on the loan filed which are quite irregular.

 And out of granting loans to 55 members, only 50 members taken CC &

 KCC to a tune of Rs.2,99,00,000/- leaving 5 fake members as balance

 and the said loans were granted contrary to the circulars issued by the

 Administrative Office, while sanctioning loans .without identifying the

 members by way of field inspection by the Manager, Supervisor and

 Chief Executive Officer of the Society and after conducting the field

 inspection, a certificate shall be appended to the loan file, then only the

 petitioners have to sanction the loan amount and the same was

 deviated by the Managers, Supervisors and Chief Executive Officer. 6. It is also asserted in the inquiry report that the bank officials also

 opened the SB accounts to the fake members without verifying the

 Aadhar and PAN cards which resulted the misappropriation of funds

 towards benami loans. More so, the Bank Managers as well as

 Supervisors, CEOs have not followed the cash credit circulars issued by

 the Administrative Office and the Inquiry Officer also opined that if the 4 bank officials followed the circular issued by the Administrative Office

they'can also stop payments, but in this aspect, they were colluded with

the delinquents. 7. In this connection, the revenue officials are also mainly colluded

with the fake members for exhibiting and uploading fake mutations with

RSR does not follow the guidelines of the Chief Commissioner of the

Land Administration in which CCLA's Circular No.LR.il/ROR2/7128/

2016 dated and G.O.Ms.No.271 of Revenue Department dated

01.07.2016, where the Government of Andhra Pradesh issued to all the

Tahsildars and District'Collectors and all the connected persons those

who are authorized to conduct mutations in connection with the sale.

gift, partition, etc. And out of 50 cases of benami loans, 45 cases were

relating to Machavaram Mandal and the rest of 5 cases relating to

Bellamkonda Mandal uploading directly the names of fake members into

the web land without having survey numbers and extent and the dates

of uploading and deletion, if any, those who caused for the above

lapses. 8. The Inquiry Officer also reported that in connection with the Sub

Registrar's Office, out of 50 fake members, the mortgage registration

was done in favour of the fake members only 40 members and SROs
 t 5 found the'said survey numbers in the web land at that time, but in

 respect of 10 fake loans, Piduguralla Sub-Registrar informed that the

 mortgage registrations as well as encumbrance certificates were

 registered in favour of fake lonees and found to be fake mortgaged

 bonds and fake encumbrance certificates. 9. Basing upon the inquiry report, the Joint Registrar, District

 Cooperative Officer, vide proceedings in Rc.No.706/2022-C dated

 05.06.2023, has directed to initiate civil, criminal and disciplinary

 proceedings against the petitioners herein.

 CONTENTIONS OF THE WRIT PETITIONERS AS PER THE AFFIDAVIT: unreasonable and based on
 kendram is misconceived
 in fact, e-KYC is
 is not available with the 11. And further contended that in
 obligation on the
 in
 is no circular in force which imposes an
 bank and there is
 of the agricultural land which is
 Manager to conduct field inspection
 which has been
 mortgaged to pads before disbursing the amount favour of the
 concerned PACS m
 sanctioned and granted by the
 officials of the bank
 is no obligation cast upon the
 members and there is
 of the land which was
 mortgaged in favour of the
 for physical verification PACS and the
 for the loan granted by the
 respective societies of the bank in
 surcharge proceedings
 ; issued against the employees 7 S

 pursuanMo the report submitted by the inquiry officer under Section 51 of the'' Act 1964 is without jurisdiction, as per the orders in

 W.P.Nos.22815, 22828 and 228209 of 2009 of the common High Court
 and the conjoint reading of relief of Sections 59 and 60 of the Act 1964
 makes it clear that the surcharge proceedings cannot be taken against
 non-employees, non-office bearers or
 non-members of the society and
 the action taken against the employees of the bank or held to be without
 jurisdiction. In order to attract Section 60 of the Act 1964 there must be
 a loss caused to the bank and the loss caused go the society cannot be

 a cause of action for proceeding against the employees of the bank. 12.
 Though the employees of the bank are connected with the

 process of sanctioning loans and the bank itself is a society, no action
can be taken against the employee of the another society 'Bank' in

respect of irregularities committed in a society. Managers of the
respective branches have verified the title deeds passbooks, 1-B, E.C.

Adangal and also the mortgage deed executed by the member of the
society in favour of the society and then only the loans were disbursed.
The allegation against the petitioner and other persons who obtained
loans from the PACSs have colluded with the CEOs and Managing
Commffte.es of the
 respective PACSs is false, baseless and 8 misconceived. Hence, prayed to set aside the impugned enquiry under
 \ Section 51 of the Act 1964 dated 31.05.2023 and the consequential

order for initiating civil, criminal and disciplinary proceedings dated

05.06.2023. 13. To substantiate their contentions raised in the affidavits filed in

support of the Writ Petitions, learned counsel appearing for the

petitioners in all the Writ Petitions, relied on the following judgments: Tribunal, Hyderabad and
 (4) S Balappa v. Co-operative within the
 others^ for the proposition that ot bring a case
 that any person who
 scope of Section 60 , it shouid appear
 has taken part in the management of the society or any past
 has misappropriated or
 or present officer of the society
 other property or has
 fraudulently retained any money or
 relation to the society and it
 been guilty of breach of trust in
 of the audit or enquiry or in
 must also appear in the course
 an inspection or on the winding up of a society,
 the said
 amount had fallen due to be recovered from the concerned
 person. the contentions raised by the writ petitioners, 14. Repelling
 learned Government Pleader,
respondents 1 2 3 and 5, through the
 Chief Executive Officers of the
filed their counter and stated that the
 to the persons \A/ho are not
 respective PACSs had issued irregular loans
 the area of operation of the PACSs by
 holding agricultural land i in

 19 of the Act 1964, as
 violating bye-law No.6 of the society and Section

 " 2005 (2) ALT 137 (S.B.) 10 %
such, ah inquiry was ordered under Section 51 of the Act 1964 into the

affairs of the PACS to conduct a detailed inquiry and to fix-up the

responsibility. 15. The 5^'^ respondent-Deputy Registrar of Cooperative Societies

and Divisional Cooperative Officer recommended to order an inquiry

under Section 51 of the Act 1964 basing on the findings of the

Inspection Officer/Senior Inspector, Periodical Inspection Officer, Office

of the Sub Divisional Cooperative Officer, Guntur, the Chief Executive

Officer, Perecherla PACS Limited, the four members had sanctioned

eight benami KCC and CC loans for Rs. 18,00,000/-, the Manager and

Supervisor opened SB accounts in the branch concerned in favour of

the fake borrowers without following the KYC norms and without

insisting about the evidence produced, i.e., Aadhar and PAN cards) is

quite irregular. And the petitioners have not acted as per the guidelines/

circular instructions issued by the GDCC Bank Limited, Guntur, for

sanction and disbursement of loans. 16. Learned Government Pleader would further submit that Circular

No.BKG/KYC/F.No.269/2021-22 dated 03.12.2021 on the KYC

Guidelines is issued to protect the financial system against threat of

money laundering/terror financing and frauds. Circular instructions in 11 %

 ADM.F.No.1111/2019-20 dated 31.05.2019 point No.8 says that
 u : 17. Hence, the contention of the petitioner that he has not violated the

 prevailing guidelines in disbursement of loans and the findings of the

 Inquiry Officer that the bank officials colluded with the Management,

 Chief Executive Officer of the respective societies is false and baseless

 is not correct. 18. And it is also stated that as per the G.O.Ms.No.34, Food and

 Agriculture (Coop.IV) dated 16.01.1989, the appointment of the Inquiry

 Officer under Section 51 of the Act 1964 in respect of PACS has been

 delegated to the District Cooperative Officer. Accordingly, he District

 Cooperative Officer, Guntur ordered inquiry under Section 51 of the Act

 1964 into the affairs of the Reddypalem PACS and Perecherla through

 proceeding Rc.No.704/2022-C, dated 16.03.2022 and Rc.No.706/2022 - 12 f
C dated 16.03.2022 respectively on the recommendations of the

Divisional Cooperative Officer, Guntur. 19. It is also stated that there are similar misappropriation cases

including this, in 17 PACSs have been happened and inquiries under Section 51 of the Act 1964 were conducted and inquiry reports

submitted by the Inquiry Officer revealed that sanctioned and disbursed

for an amount of Rs10.68 crores of benami loans to 184 fake members

by opening SB accounts in branches by 25 bank employees. Hence

prayed to dismiss all the Writ Petitions. 20. Learned Government Pleader appearing for respondents 1, 2, 3

and 5 relied on the following judgments: '(2015) 1 ALD253 13 «

 ( 2) Araja Narasimha Rao v. District Cooperative Officer/Joint
 Registrar Krishna District, Machilipatnam^ .

 (3) Order of this Court in W.P.No.40847 of 2015 dated
 28.08.2024. CONTENTIONS OF 6"^^ RESPONDENT BANKAS PER THE COUNTER: ® 2007 (5) ALD 698 14 The same should be kept in loan file. The PACS should not change

more than 7% on these loans. 22. It is also stated that it is the duty of the sanctioning authority, i.e.,

the Manager, Supervisor & CEOs to verify the KYC (know your
 «

customer) of the proposed loanee/borrower and to verify the revenue

records of the proposed agricultural land offered to be mortgaged to the

PACS namely, Adangal, ROR-1B, Pattadar Passbook-cum-Title deeds

in the title of the proposed loanee/borrower and also to verify the

Encumbrance Certificate to find whether any third party interests

created over the proposed agricultural land offered to be mortgaged to

the PACS as security towards the proposed loan amount to be

sanctioned and also to physically visit the proposed agricultural land

offered as security and record a field inspection report verifying the

actual land in parity with the submitted revenue records namely

Adangal, ROR-1B, Pattadar Passbook-cum-Title deeds and the same
shall be maintained and filed in the bank records along with the SAG

loan application before disbursement of any loan amount to the

borrower. 23. It is also stated that none of the conditions stated supra have not

been foilbwed by the petitioner, as such, the respondents passed the 15 impugned" order in Rc.No.704/2022-C dated 31.05.2023 and

Rc.No.7D6/2022-C dated 05.06.2023 was right and appropriate as the

employees vested with the duties of field inspection and sanctioning

authority were negligent and committed dereliction of their individual

respective duties which caused misappropriation to the funds of the

bank. 24. Learned counsel for the respondent relied on judgment of the

Hon'ble Apex Court in Chairman & Managing Director, United

Commercial Bank v. P.C.Kakkar^ , for the proposition that a bank is

dependent upon each of its officers and officers acting and operating

within their allotted sphere and acting beyond one's authority is by itself

a breach of discipline and is a misconduct. Hence, prayed to dismiss

the Writ Petitions. CONSIDERATION OF BOTH PARTIES BRIEFLY: 25. Heard Sri Prabhu Nath Vasireddy, learned counsel for the writ

petitioner, Sri Ramakrishna Naik, learned Government Pleader for

Cooperation, appearing for respondent Nos.1, 2, 3 and 5 and Ms.K.N.

Vijaya Lakshmi, learned counsel for respondent No.6.

' (2003) 4 see 364 16 26. Learned counsel for the petitioners argues that the primary

responsibility for the irregularities committed in the affairs of the society

rests on the office bearers of the society and the employees working

herein. Though the employees of the bank are connected in the

process of sanction of the loans and the bank itself is a society, no

action can be taken against the employees of another society, "Bank" in

respect of the irregularities committed in a society. In any event, the

joint and several liability cannot be mulcted on the petitioners. 27. On the touchstone of the aforesaid principle which was laid in

K.SSatyanarayana's case (1 supra), learned counsel appearing for the

petitioners would submit that if at all, the responsibility is only on the

society not on the bank, though the employees of the bank are

connected with and the bank itself is a society, no action can be taken

against the employee? of the another society. Therefore, learned

counsel appearing for the petitioners voiced that it is a fit case to allow

all the Writ Petitions and set aside the impugned proceedings dated

31.05.2023 and 05.06.2023. 28. It is also contended by the learned counsel for the petitioners that

the circular issued by the DCCBs is not a law or a statute or rule and it

is not binding^an'd there is no need to follow the circular and also stated 17 that the circular was not circulated to the respective PACSs and not
 following the circular is not a ground to conduct an inquiry or for

 initiating civil, criminal and disciplinary proceedings against the
 petitioners herein. And also contended that there is no such willful

 negligence on the part of the petitioners in disbursing the loan amount
 and also stated that the e-KYC is not available with the bank and no
 circular in force which imposes an obligation on the Manager to conduct
 field inspection of the agricultural land which js mortgaged to PACS
 before disbursing the amount, as such, the petitioner did not commit any
misconduct and therefore the petitioners are not liable to any civil,
criminal or disciplinary action. Hence, prayed to allow the Writ Petitions
by setting aside the impugned enquiry dated 31.05.2023 and the
consequential initiation of civil, criminal and disciplinary proceedings
dated 05.06.2023. 29.
 The respondents would submit that the petitioners have not
conducted inquiry as contemplated under the circular and they have not

conducted field inspection before granting loans,' as the amount is more
than Rs. 1,00,000/- and the petitioners have entered benami members

into the society as per the information furnished by Piduguralla Sub
Registrar Office and the mortgage registrations as well as encumbrance 18 certificates are not registered in favour of the fake loanees and found to

be fake encumbrance certificates and the petitioners have not followed
 t

the cash credit circulars issued by the administrative office, if they would

have been followed the circulars issued by the administrative office,

,they can prevent the payments or stop the payments. As they were
colluded, they have not followed the circular issued by the

administrative office, on seeing these allegations, the judgments relied

on by the petitioners are not applicable to the present facts of the case,

as the society is not responsible for the irregularities committed by the

petitioners and the society has not accepted any loan applications.

COURT'S CONCLUSION: 30. The proposition laid in the judgment in K.Satyanarayana's case (1

supra) is that: The bank itself is a society, no action can be taken

against the employees of the bank in respect of the irregularities

committed in the society. The said proposition is not applicable to the

present facts of the case, as the society has not sanctioned or

recommended for, any loan and the petitioners herein have deviated the

circulars issued and in collusion with the revenue officials have created

fake SB accounts and without field inspection, they have disbursed the
 I

loan amount. Therefore, on the touchstone of the judgment in 19 ♦

 K.Satyanarayana's case (1 supra), the petitioners cannot agitate to

 quash tine inquiry under Section 51 of the Act 1964 and ordering of civil,

 criminal and disciplinary action dated 05.06.2023. 31. The judgment of the Madras High Court relied on by the learned

 counsel for the petitioners relating to the circular in Dr. V.K. John v.

 G.Vasantha Pai and another (2 supra) at paragraph No.5, it is asserted

 that; 32. On a reference made by a Bench of Three Judges of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in Commissioner of Central Excise v. Ratan Melting And

 Wire Industries , Calcutta^, a Constitutional Bench in CCE v. Ratan (2005) 3 see 57 20 Melting & Wire Industries^, held that: "The circulars and instructions

issued by the Board are no doubt binding in law on the authorities under

the respective statutes, but when the Supreme Court or the High Court

declares the law on the question arising for consideration, it would not

be appropriate for the Court to direct that the circular should be given

effect and not the view expressed in a decision of this Court or the High

Court. So far as the clarifications/circulars issued by the Central

Government and of the State Government are concerned they respect

merely their understanding of the statutory provisions. 33. It is other contention raised by the learned counsel for the

petitioner that e-KYC is not available in the bank. 34. Applicability of KYC is known as: Section 2 : Applicability: '(2008) 13 SC'C 1 21 Regulated Entities" (REs) means: 35. The purpose and purport of KYC stands for "Know Your

Customer." It is a due diligence process financial companies use to

verify customer identity and assess and monitor customer risk. KYC

ensures customers are who they say they are, and it prevents money

laundering, terrorism financing, and more fraudulent activities and

schemes. By verifying a customer's identity and intentions when the

account is opened and then monitoring transaction patterns, financial

institutions can more accurately pinpoint suspicious activities. As 22 f

 mandated by the Reserve Bank's guidelines, all banks and financial

 institutions are required to implement Know Your Customer (KYC)
 procedures. Financial institutions cannot proceed with transactions if
 KYC documentation is not available. 36.
 The Reserve Bank of India has power to ensure a fair

enforcement of its provisions, by issuing circulars in exercise of its
statutory powers under Banking Regulations Act which are binding on
 I

the authorities in the administration of the Act. 37.
 Once rules are gazetted and notified shall be deemed to have

been made under the said Act and shall continue to be in force unless

and until they are superseded by Rules made under the Act, they

typically come into effect and are considered legally binding. A

government body or authority cannot simply state that the rules are not

implemented if they have been officially published. The allegations in

the enquiry under Section 51 of Act indicate a preponderance of
probability that the petitioners intentionally committed misappropriation
of the bank funds. 38.
 The petitioners knowingly granted loans in collusion, ignoring
bank guidelines. Their actions were intentional, not negligent. 23 4 39. One of the decisions referred to in Words and Phrases

 Permanent Edition, 28, viz.. Smith v. Weber 16 N.W. 2d. 537, 539, 70

 S.D. 232, gives the following definition; "Wilfulness'" and 'negligence'

 are opposites, wilfulness signifying presence of intention, purpose or

 design and negligence in their absence, arising from inattention

 thoughtlessness, or heedlessness, and there is a distinction between

 negligence characterized by inadvertence-and wilful injury characterized

 by 'advertence'. 40. Upon examination of the impugned enquiry report, it is evident

 that the report did not contain any findings indicating that the society

 directed or recommended the sanction of loans to benami beneficiaries.

 Rather, it is the petitioners who fraudulently disbursed the loans.

 Without any evidence of a direction or recommendation from the

 society, the petitioners cannot reasonably claim that the involvement of

 bank employees in the loan sanctioning process precludes

 accountability. The fact that the bank operates as a society does not

 exempt its employees from liability for irregularities that occur within its

 operations. The bank, as a society, and its employees, who are

 petitioners, cannot evade responsibility for any wrongdoing and can still 24 be held accountable for their actions. The petitioners who granted

 loans fraudulently together and they want to punish society for

 wrongdoings of the person which is unjust and unfair. 41. In view of the foregoing discussion, the principle laid down in the

 judgment of the common High Court in K.Satyanarayana's case (1

 supra) is not applicable to the facts of the present case, as the society

 has not recommended or paid the loans to the fake members and the

 petitioners therein have created bank accounts fraudulently and

 disbursed the amounts fraudulent without following the circulars issued

 by the Reserve Bank of India and DCCB. Hence, this Court found no

 reasons to allow the Writ Petitions. 42. Accordingly, all the Writ Petitions are dismissed. There shall be

 no order as to costs. As a sequel thereto. Miscellaneous Petitions pending, if any, shall
 stand closed. 1. -One-CC to Sri Prabhu Nath Vasireddy, Advocate [OPUC] 2. One CC to Smt K.N.Vijaya Lakshmi, Advocate [OPUC] 3. Two CCs to GP for Agriculture, High Court of Andhra Pradesh. [OUT] 4. Two CCs to GP for Cooperation, High Court of Andhra Pradesh. [OUT] 5. Two CD Copies

RAM
 I 64 HIGH COURT
.f •

 DATE 0:06/11/2024

 ■gf ANDA^
 COMMON ORDER X 0 7 NOV 207'i m
 Co

 Curreni Section ^ -i
 WP.Nos.13829, 23152, 13841
 14124, 14126,14131,14134,
 14136, 14138, 15186, 15189, 17577,
 17579, 17582, 20253 AND 20264 OF 2023

 DISMISSING ALL THE WPs
 WITHOUT COSTS