I.A. No.8878/2012 (u/ S. 148 , 149 and 151 CPC) 1. Plaintiff has deposited the amount in order to get the court
fee. Challan has been filed. Let the court fee be filed within one
week. The application is disposed of. 2. Original documents/legible/fair typed copies of dim
documents be filed within eight weeks from today. The application is
disposed of. CS(OS) 1340/2012 & I.A. No.8877/2012 (u/O. XXXIX, R. 1 & 2 CPC ) 3. Let the plaint be registered as a suit. 4. Issue summons in the suit and notice in the application to
the defendants, returnable on 30.05.2012. Dasti as well. 5. The four plaintiffs, namely, Vyakti Vikas Kendra, India CS (OS) No.1340/2012 Page 1 of 6 Public Charitable Trust, Mr Gautam Vig, Mrs. Bhanumati Narsimhan
and Mrs. Sharmila Murarka, have filed present suit against the
defendants for damages to tune of Rs.5,09,00,000/-, permanent and
mandatory injunction, mainly on the ground that they are aggrieved,
hurt and immensely concerned on account of certain highly
defamatory materials posted on an internet website by the name
http://www.blogger.com/ by one Mr Jitender Bagga, the defendant
No.1 herein. The said website is owned by Google, the defendant
No.2. It is a Blog Publishing Service which allows people to create
and publish a "Blog". 6. According to the plaintiff, the defendant No.1 has been
indiscriminately sending e-mails and has published a large number of
blogs on the website http://www.blogger.com/, which according to
them is highly vulgar, disgusting and abusive references towards His
Holiness Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, owner of Art of Living Foundation,
and towards various other persons associated with the Art of Living. 7. It is stated in the plaint that the plaintiff No. 1, Vyakti
Vikas Kendra, India Public Charitable Trust, is a registered Public
Charitable Trust constituted to implement and promote the spiritual,
educational, social and developmental activities for The Art of Living
in India. The Art of Living, founded in 1981, is one of the world‟s
largest volunteer based, humanitarian and educational organizations
inspired by His Holiness Sri Sri Ravi Shankar‟s vision of creating a
stress-free, violence-free society. The plaintiff No. 2, Mr. Gautam
Vig is a devout follower of His Holiness Sri Sri Ravi Shankar. The
plaintiff No. 3, Mrs. Bhanumati Narsimhan is His Holiness Sri Sri
Ravi Shankar‟s sister and an Art of Living teacher. The plaintiff No. 3
is personally a victim of the defendant No. 1‟s defamatory acts. The
plaintiff No. 4, Mrs. Sharmila Murarka is an Art of Living Teacher. Plaintiff No. 4 is also personally a victim of defendant No. 1‟s
defamatory acts. The defendant No. 1 has created and published
various materials on the Internet, which are highly defamatory to the
plaintiffs. In para 10, there is a table containing defamatory materials
to the plaintiffs, the Art of Living Foundation, its spiritual head Sri Sri
Ravi Shankar and his family members. The list of Internet URL is as
under: 8. It is contended by the plaintiffs that in case the interim
order is not passed against the defendants, the plaintiffs will suffer
irreparable loss and injury. They will also suffer immense loss of
reputation, mental trauma, harassment and humiliation. 9. It is stated in the plaint that notice was given to the
defendant No.1, who failed to give any reply. 10. The plaintiffs have filed the policy of defendant No.2 for

removal of defamatory content from its website

http://www.blogger.com/. The relevant extract thereof reads as

under : Rule 3(3) of the said rules read with Rule 3(2) requires an
intermediary to observe due diligence or publish any information that
is grossly harmful, defamatory, libellious, disparaging or otherwise
unlawful. 12. Rule 3(4) of the said rule provides obligation of an
intermediary to remove such defamatory content within 36 hours from
receipt of actual knowledge. The said rule expressly provides as
follows- 13. In view of the foregoing facts and reasons mentioned
above, it appears that the plaintiffs have been able to make out a CS (OS) No.1340/2012 Page 5 of 6 strong prima facie case of passing of ex-parte interim order. The
balance of convenience also lies in favour of the plaintiffs and against
the defendants. Incase, interim order is not passed, the plaintiffs will
suffer irreparable loss and injury. Thus, till the next date, the
defendant No. 2 is directed to remove all defamatory contents about
the plaintiffs posted by the defendant No.1 on defendant No.2‟s
website http://.blogger.com/ as well as the links mentioned in
paragraph 4 of the present application within 36 hours from date of
knowledge of the order passed by this Court. The defendant No.1 is
restrained from sending any e-mail including e-mails, the details of
which are given in para 7 of this order or posting any material over
the internet which has a direct or indirect reference to the plaintiffs or
the Art of Living Foundation or any member of the Art of Living
Foundation, or His Holiness Sri Sri Ravi Shankar. 14. Compliance of Order XXXIX, Rule 3 CPC be made within
three days. 15. Copy of the order be given dasti under the signature of the
Court Master/Private Secretary. MANMOHAN SINGH, J. MAY 09, 2012
jk CS (OS) No.1340/2012 Page 6 of 6