Prathiba M. Singh, J. I.A. 8461/2020 (u/O XI CPC seeking discovery and directions to Defendant
 No. 1 to disclose identity of infringing channels)

 Brief Facts 1. The Plaintiffs - Ms. Neetu Singh and K.D. Campus Pvt. Ltd. have filed
 the present suit seeking permanent injunction restraining infringement of
 copyright, damages and other reliefs in respect of unauthorized dissemination
 of the Plaintiffs' videos, lecture, books, etc. 2. The case of the Plaintiffs is that Plaintiff No.1 is a renowned author of
 books which are designed to train students aspiring to take various
 competitive examinations including the examinations of Staff Selection
 Commission (SSC), Bank Probationary Officer (PO), CDS, NDA, etc. CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 1 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 Plaintiff No.1 - Ms. Neetu Singh founded Plaintiff No.2 - M/s K.D. Campus,
 which runs coaching centres for these competitive exams. The suit has been
 filed by the Plaintiffs against Defendant No.1/Telegram FZ LLC (hereinafter
 "Telegram") and Defendant No.2/John Doe, i.e., unknown persons. 3. The Telegram app is a messaging platform capable of being downloaded on mobile phones, computers, tabs and other similar gadgets, which enables transmission of text, audio files, video files, images, documents
 etc. The allegation in the suit is that the Plaintiffs' copyrighted works
 including course material, online lectures and other works are being
 disseminated unauthorizedly through various Telegram channels, some of
 which, as set out in the plaint, are as under: 4. The Plaintiffs aver that on these channels, videos of the lectures
 delivered by Plaintiff No.1 are being uploaded on a daily basis and being made
 accessible to students at discounted rates. The screenshots of the said videos
 are extracted in the plaint. The Plaintiffs also found that the books of the
 Plaintiffs including books titled 'Plinth to Paramount' etc. are being
 circulated in PDF formats on Telegram channels. 5. In so far as Telegram's role is concerned, according to the Plaintiffs, as
 per the Privacy Policy of Telegram, any abuse on Telegram channels can be
 reported. Accordingly, after acquiring knowledge of the illegal dissemination
 of the Plaintiffs' works, e-mails were sent to the e-mail addresses where abuse
 can be reported including [email protected] and [email protected] , and
 the Plaintiffs called upon Telegram to take down the impugned channels.
 Upon receipt of the said notices some channels were taken down by Telegram, CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 3 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 but some infringing channels continued to exist and new channels came up
 almost on a daily basis, with names such as: 6. The Plaintiffs then, in view of the repeated channels over which
 dissemination of the infringing copies of the copyrighted works was being
 carried out, approached this Court by way of the present suit. The reliefs
 sought in the present suit are as under: 7. The suit was first listed on 28th July, 2020, on which date, after hearing
 the parties, an ad-interim order was passed in the following terms: "8. Learned Senior Counsel further clarifies that all the
 channels as prayed for in prayer (B) of IA 6215/2020
 have been taken down except Neetu maam course
 (t.me/vshusinha1010) and SSC Courses CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 4 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 Neetu(t.me/ssccoursepaid1) which do not exist on the
 defendant No.1's cloud services. 9. Considering the fact that immediate grievance of the
 plaintiffs has been addressed by the defendant No. 1 and
 in view of the statement of the learned Senior Counsel for
 the defendant No. 1 that as and when intimated, the
 defendant No. 1 will take down the offending channels
 within 36 hours of the intimation, this Court is not
 passing any ad-interim injunction at this Stage, awaiting
 the reply affidavit." 8. The said order was modified on 23rd September, 2020 in the following
 terms: "9. In the meantime, defendant No.1 is directed to take
 down the channels mentioned at Sr.Nos.1 to 201 of
 document No.1 with the present application irrespective
 of the fact whether they are private or public channels." 9. Thereafter, in the said suit, an application being I.A. No.8461/2020 has
 been filed by the Plaintiffs under Order XI Rule 10 CPC , seeking discovery
 of the details of the persons who are operating these channels. Arguments
 have been heard in the said application. Submissions 10. Ms. Rajeshwari, ld. counsel appearing for the Plaintiffs, primarily
 submits that: (ii) Further, while the channels that were impugned earlier in the suit
 by the Plaintiffs are being taken down pursuant to the interim
 orders of this Court, new channels by adding some prefixes or
 suffixes or by making small modifications in the names of the
 channels continue to be created. Accordingly, ld. counsel for the
 Plaintiffs submits that the identity of the persons who are
 disseminating the infringing materials on these channels ought to
 be disclosed, so that the Plaintiffs can avail of their remedies
 against the said persons. 11. On behalf of Telegram, Mr. Sibal, ld. Senior Counsel, submits that: (iii) He further relies upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy v. Union of India & Ors. , (2017) 10
 SCC 1, paragraphs 310 and 328, to argue that unless and until a CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 6 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 law requires disclosure of such information, it is not permissible
 to direct disclosure of the same inasmuch as the privacy of the
 person operating the said channel would be protected by Article
 21 of the Constitution of India. (iv) Post the judgment of Puttaswamy (supra), it is submitted that the
 Government has enacted the Information Technology
 Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics, 2021
 (hereinafter "IT Guidelines"), which is also relied upon by
 Telegram. Specific reliance is placed on Rule 3(1)(d) of the IT
 Guidelines, which primarily requires the intermediary to take
 down or remove or disable access to the unlawful information.
 Further, on the basis of Rule 4 of the IT Guidelines, it is argued
 that unless and until, any one of the situations as contemplated in
 the first proviso to Rule 4(1)(2) of the said guidelines is satisfied,
 even a Court order cannot be passed directing disclosure of the
 basic subscriber information. (v) Vehement reliance is also placed on the fact that Telegram has
 its servers based in Singapore which has encrypted data.
 Accordingly, decryption of that data would not be permissible
 except as per the laws of Singapore. Reliance is placed upon the
 Personal Data Protection Act, 2012, of Singapore (hereinafter
 "PDPA"), specifically, on the definitions relating to "personal
 data proceedings" under Sections 17 and 29 of the PDPA read
 with Schedule IV. He submits that while under Section 17 of the
 PDPA, Telegram may reveal certain information upon direction
 by a "Court", since the "Court" in terms of the Interpretation Act CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 7 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 of Singapore, 1965, would only mean a Court based in
 Singapore, a Court in India would not be empowered to direct
 disclosure of the information relating to the subscriber who may
 be running the allegedly infringing channels. (vi) Finally, Section 72A of the Information Technology Act, 2000
 (hereinafter " IT Act "), is stressed upon, which provides that any
 disclosure of information in breach of a lawful contract i.e., the
 contract between the Telegram platform and the subscriber/
 creator of the impugned channels, would also be contrary to law
 and could constitute an offence. 12. In rejoinder, Ms. Rajeshwari, ld. Counsel for the Plaintiffs, submits
 that: Findings and Analysis 13. The short but vexed legal issue that is to be decided in I.A.8461/2020
 is whether Telegram can be directed to disclose the identity of the creators of
 the infringing channels which unauthorisedly and illegally disseminate the
 Plaintiffs' copyrighted works. 14. Telegram does not dispute, for the purposes of this application, the
 copyright of Plaintiff No.1 in her course material and videos. In fact, it is
 already taking down the infringing channels in terms of the interim order.
 Telegram has only opposed the grant of relief in this application to the extent
 that it cannot share the data relating to the creators or users of the channels,
 as the said data is stored in Telegram's data servers in Singapore and the law
 of Singapore prohibits such disclosure. Moreover, as per Telegram, it being
 an intermediary under the IT Act , none of the pre-conditions which permit the
 intermediary to disclose the identity of the users, as per the IT Guidelines are
 satisfied. 15. This Court, first, notes that the fact that the infringing content was
 disseminated on various channels on the Telegram app, is not in dispute. Such
 channels are being blocked by Telegram. However, the users on Telegram are
 creating new channels and operating the same in private mode, hence they are
 able to mask their identity. On the said channels, the infringing copyrighted
 works have been shared, communicated, and uploaded. Charges are also being
 collected by the infringers, for providing the same. 16. The discovery application filed by the Plaintiffs, sets out the manner in
 which a Telegram account can be opened and the app can be downloaded by
 the users. According to the Plaintiffs, the Telegram app permits users to
 operate their businesses, either through a public channel or private channels.
 If they operate through private channels, the phone numbers or other details
 would not be visible. Thus, it is not possible to locate the owners of such
 channels. Such information is exclusively available only with Telegram.
 Since Telegram also makes secret chats possible, the phone numbers cannot
 be traced and the identity of the person(s) is also unknown. Some of the screen CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 9 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 shots, which have been placed on record by the Plaintiffs, show that the
 channel operators are brazenly using the name of the Plaintiffs, Plaintiff
 No.1's image, and referring to the course material with her name. For
 example: 17. The Plaintiffs, thus, realized that amounts were being charged by one
 private operator who was running one of the private channels for sharing the
 Plaintiffs' course material unauthorizedly. Pursuant to the injunction order
 granted by this Court dated 28th July, 2020, the channels which were being
 run earlier were blocked and now the said channel operators have taken refuge
 under privacy services and secret chat features to hide their own identity and
 have created new channels. Thus, the original works of the Plaintiffs are being
 transmitted on channels, which are created almost instantaneously, if an
 earlier channel is blocked. For example, the comparison between the earlier
 and new channels, has been tabulated by the Plaintiffs illustratively, as below: (t.me/englishbyneetumam) 't.me/Englishbyneetumam1

 [reported on 16.9.2020) [new channel appeared on
 [blocked on 18.9.2020] 19.9.2020] 2. SSC Paid Courses SSC Paid Courses (Private)
 (t.me/C_W_Videos) (t.me/C_W_Videos1) 3. Complete English free Free all course
 (t.me/careerwillenglish) (t.me/freeallcareerwillcourses) 4. ALL CARRIERWILL Careerwill Paid classes
 VIDEOS FREE (t.me/careerwill_ssc)
 (t.me/carrierwillvedio) 5. Neetu mam paid latest Neetu mam spoken english
 (t.me/spoken45), paid (t.me/spoken46), 6. Neetu maam Neetu maam
 (t.me/spoken1212) (t.me/spoken1213) 7. Neetu Singh, E1 coaching Neetu Singh, E1 coaching,
 Gopal verma, Gagan Gopal verma, Gagan Pratap,
 Pratap, Aman Vasisth Aman Vasisth paid videos
 paid videos SSC CLG SSC CLG
 (t.me/ssccoursespaid2) (t.me/ssccoursespaid3) Neetu
 Singh, E1 coaching, Gopal
 verma, Gagan Pratap, Aman
 Vasisth paid videos SSC
 CLG (t.me/ssccoursespaid3) 8. SSC mains paid videos Neetu mam paid course free
 (t.me/rakeshpaidvideo), (t.me/paidcoursesrakesh) 18. A perusal of the above table would show that the difference between
 the earlier channel and the new channel could be as little as: 19. The number of channels that can be created in this manner are
 innumerable. The Plaintiffs' works have thus been disseminated without any
 hindrance whatsoever, despite the injunction order, and the infringers are
 operating under completely masked identities. Repeated blocking of the
 channels is proving to be insufficient. It is in view of this unsurmountable
 challenge to curb infringement, that the Plaintiffs seek the prayer in the
 present application for disclosure of identity of the creators of the infringing
 channels. The prayer in the present application reads as under: 20. In reply to this application, the following broad defences are taken by
 Telegram: Telegram shall continue to remove infringing content as may be
 reported by the Plaintiffs. (ii) The data centres and servers of Telegram are located outside
 India and the direction for disclosure would violate the laws of
 the jurisdiction where the servers are located. Moreover,
 Telegram uses a distributed physical infrastructure and is bound
 by the provisions of the PDPA, Singapore. (iii) Telegram itself is a Dubai-based company and is bound by the
 laws of Dubai. (iv) In any event, Telegram is an 'intermediary', which is only
 expected to act as per the IT Act and IT Guidelines. Such an
 intermediary only has to remove the infringing content upon
 being given notice and is not liable for third party information
 circulated on its platform. (v) In case Telegram discloses such personal data, it might be in
 breach of Section 72A of the IT Act, which makes unauthorised
 disclosure of information in breach of a contract, a criminal
 offence punishable with imprisonment for a term that may extend
 to three years. (vi) There is no proof of infringement of copyright produced before
 the Court, and even the current impugned channels have been
 removed in good faith. However, the order dated 28th July, 2020
 was passed on the understanding that the Plaintiffs would provide
 verifiable proof of the channels sought to be removed. (vii) There is no valid ground for directing discovery, as the Plaintiffs
 have not proven how the private user data sought to be disclosed
 is material or relevant to the present suit's adjudication, as
 required by the CPC . (viii)The right to freedom of speech and expression would be curbed,
 if the prayer for disabling the new channel feature for channel
 creators is accepted. 21. At the outset before delving into the legal issue in this case, the Court
 first notes the various features and policies of Telegram, which would be
 relevant for ascertaining what information Telegram may possess and the
 process of its disclosure. A. The Telegram App and its Features and Policies 22. The Telegram application is one of the most used messaging platforms
 in India with its publicly declared monthly active users being approximately
 700 million.1 Telegram's largest user base is India, accounting for more than
 20% of its user base.2 Reportedly, Telegram grew its active user base by 110%
 in India in 2020-2021- i.e., more than 115 million active users.3 The Telegram
 app can be used for transmitting messages, photographs, videos, voice
 recordings, documents in PDF and other forms, etc. In order to enable a person
 to use Telegram, all that is required is to download the app by giving a phone
 number, which is verified through a one-time password (hereinafter "OTP").
 Telegram, in fact, permits the user to use the screen name, profile pictures,
 and user name as the user chooses. 23. Telegram has two kinds of users: (i) Free users; and 1 700 Million Users and Telegram Premium, Telegram Blog, Jun. 21, 2022, https://telegram.org/blog/700-
 million-and-premium. A. Chakravarti, WhatsApp rival Telegram has highest number of users in India, clocks 1 billion
 downloads globally, India Today, Aug. 31, 2021,
 https://www.indiatoday.in/technology/news/story/whatsapp-rival-telegram-has-highest-number-of-users-in-
 india-clocks-1-billion-downloads-globally-1847681-2021-08-31. I. Mehta, Telegram grew its active user base by 110% in India last year, The Next Web, Jan. 13, 2021,
 https://thenextweb.com/news/telegram-grew-its-active-user-base-by-110-in-india-last-year. (ii) Premium users. 24. The former category uses the app freely whereas premium users obtain
 a subscription membership. Premium accounts are chargeable on a monthly
 basis and provide various special features. A premium Telegram app service
 would enable voice to text conversion, increased download speed, no ads, etc.
 However, the same are not relevant in the present case. 25. In so far as the data is concerned, Telegram stores its data on a cloud
 server. It is claimed that the same is in an encrypted form. The personal data
 is claimed to be protected under Telegram's Privacy Policy4 and its Terms of
 Service.5 The relevant features as per Telegram's Privacy Policy and data
 related policies are as under:6 (a) Verification of Users/Details Collected (i) Clause 3 notes that the unique identification as far as Telegram
 goes, is the phone number. The app can also sync the user's
 contacts if the user so permits. (ii) The only verification done by Telegram is through a code sent to
 the given mobile number. Another way of verification is when
 the user allows permission to Telegram to access its phone call
 logs. Telegram then verifies the number by transmitting a phone
 call and confirming receipt of the same in the user's phone call
 logs. Thus, instead of a code, a phone call is given to verify. (iii) Clause 3.2 provides that in case a person opts for a two-step
 verification or avails of storage of documents through the 4 Telegram, Telegram Privacy Policy, https://telegram.org/privacy. Telegram, Terms of Service, https://telegram.org/tos. While the said policies have been filed with the suit as of July, 2020, for the purposes of this decision, the
 latest copies of the said policies available on the Telegram website, as cited above, have been relied upon. Telegram Passport feature, an email address of the user, would
 be used for sending a passport recovery code in case the user
 forgets the same. (iv) Clause 3.5 clarifies that Telegram does not seek the real name,
 gender, age of a person. The screen name and the real name can
 be different and it is only the screen name, which would be
 visible to the other Telegram users. purpose of showing ads or commercial purposes. However,
 advertisers can promote their services through various public
 one-to-many channels. (vi) Data up to 100 MB can be stored in the device and all media can
 be kept in the cloud. (vii) All the messages, photos, videos and documents of/for a user are
 stored on the cloud chat so that a user would be able to access the
 same from any device. Thus, the Telegram app content does not
 need to be backed up on any external/third-party backup. (viii) Clause 3.3.4 provides that apart from private messages, public
 channels and groups are also enabled on Telegram. All the public
 chats are cloud chats. Though this data of public chats is also
 encrypted, both in storage and transit, since the content is posted
 publicly, it is accessible to all users. (ix) The Telegram app as per Clause 3.3.2, permits secret chats,
 which can be decrypted only by the devices they were sent to or
 from. Such chats also use end-to-end encryption. (x) Clause 7.2 notes that credit card information submitted through
 payment gateways for premium services is not made available to
 Telegram and the said data is not stored. (xi) Clause 9.3 notes that minimal data may be required for the
 Telegram application to function in a secured manner. (xii) Clause 2 provides that the data collected is processed to further
 Telegram's legitimate interest, including for the provision of
 effective and innovative services, detection, prevention of
 fraudulent activities, and security related concerns. (xiii) As per clause 2 of the Privacy Policy, processing of personal data
 is done unless the user's overriding interest is to be protected or
 the fundamental rights mandate protection of the personal data.
 The relevant clause is as under: (xiv) A section of the Privacy Policy deals with the rights of the user
 in respect of personal data under Clause 9.1. If a user wishes to
 seek deletion or a copy of the data, amendment of the data, object
 to the processing of the data and correct any data or lodge a
 complaint with the National Data Protection Authority, a specific
 link has been provided for contacting Telegram. are geographically located in different jurisdictions. Location
 data can also be stored either on cloud or on secret chats.
 (xvi) The servers for the EEA or UK are located in the data centres in
 Netherlands. (xvii) Clause 8.2 provides that Telegram may share a user's personal
 data with its parent company, Telegram Group Inc. in the British
 Virgin Islands and Telegram FZ-LLC a group member in Dubai,
 to provide, improve and support its services. It notes that
 appropriate safeguards as per a European Commission approved
 agreement between Telegram and its group companies, will be
 implemented during such data sharing. (d) Spam, Phishing, etc.
 (xviii) Clause 5.2 provides that for the purpose of safety and security, to
 prevent spam, abuse and other violations of Telegram's Terms of
 Service, Telegram may collect metadata such as IP address of the
 user, devices used by the user, history of username changes, etc.
 Such data can be stored for 12 months. (xix) Clause 5.3 notes that spamming, phishing and other kind of abuse
 is barred on Telegram. If there is a report of spam, which is
 confirmed by Telegram's moderators, temporary or permanent
 disablement can take place. The account may also be finally
 banned. In order to stop spamming and phishing, Telegram can
 also use automated algorithms to analyse messages. (xx) Clause 8.3 provides that if Telegram receives a court order that
 confirms someone is a terror suspect, it may disclose such user's
 IP address and phone number to the relevant authorities. (e) Copyright Infringement
 (xxi) "Q: A bot or channel is infringing on my copyright. What do I
 do? All Telegram chats and group chats are private amongst their
 participants. We do not process any requests related to them. But
 sticker sets, channels, and bots on Telegram are publicly
 available. If you see a bot, channel, or sticker set that is infringing on your
 copyright, kindly submit a complaint to [email protected] .
 Please note that such requests should only be submitted by the
 copyright owner or an agent authorized to act on the owner's
 behalf." Thus, Telegram in its FAQs states that in case of a channel
 infringing someone's copyright, all Telegram chats and group
 chats are private amongst their participants. Telegram does not
 process any requests related to them. But sticker sets, channels,
 and bots on Telegram are publicly available. Therefore, if a bot,
 channel, or sticker set is infringing copyright, the aggrieved user
 can submit a complaint to [email protected] . C. Scheme and Provisions of Copyright Act, 1957 26. The present suit is one seeking restraining of infringement of the
 copyright of the Plaintiffs in their course material, videos, tutorials etc. To
 ascertain infringement, the relevant provisions of the Copyright Act, 1957 (hereinafter " Copyright Act ") are to be considered. At the outset, in cases of
 infringement, under Section 62(2) of the Copyright Act, an owner can file a CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 19 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 suit for infringement in a place where the said owner resides or carries on his
 business. In the present case, the following factors would be relevant for the
 purposes of jurisdiction: Thus, this Court is a Court of competent jurisdiction under Section 62(2) of the Copyright Act. (ii) The infringement has happened in Delhi, as the copyrighted
 works are being circulated in Delhi. (iii) In all likelihood, as the materials being circulated relate to Indian
 examinations, the infringers, though unidentified at this stage,
 may also be based out of India. 27. Therefore, merely due to the fact that the persons disseminating the
 copyrighted works, are using the Telegram app and the said app retains its
 data outside India, on Telegram servers, the jurisdiction of this Court cannot
 be ousted. Having considered the jurisdictional requirements, the substantive
 provisions of the Copyright Act now merit consideration, as to whether
 disclosure of details can be directed or not. 28. Plaintiff No.1 is the owner of the course material, which would
 constitute "literary works" under Section 2(o) of the Copyright Act. The
 videos consisting of Plaintiff No.1 teaching various subjects would also
 constitute "cinematographic films" under Section 2(f) of the Copyright Act.
 Thus, under Sections 2(o) and 2(f) of the Copyright Act, both "literary works" 29. Section 2(m) of the Copyright Act defines the term "infringing copy",
 as under: 30. Such activity of circulating copyrighted materials on Telegram
 channels would also be "communication to the public" as provided for in Section 2(ff) of the Copyright Act. The copies of the Plaintiffs' works, which
 are circulated on the Telegram channels, would constitute infringing copies
 of the Plaintiffs' works as defined under Section 2(m) of the Copyright Act.
 Thus, any reproduction of such literary work would constitute an infringing
 copy, even if the same is in electronic form. Remedies for Copyright Infringement: 31. The remedies available for a copyright owner under the Copyright Act are both civil and criminal in nature. In so far as the civil remedies are
 concerned, the same are set out inter alia, in Sections 55 and 58 of the
 Copyright Act. Section 55 provides for all remedies for infringement of a right
 such as damages, accounts, injunction, etc. The said provision reads as under: 32. Under Section 58 of the Copyright Act, all "infringing copies" 33. In this regard, Section 2(t) of the Copyright Act defines "plates" as
 under: 34. Further, Section 2(hh) of the Copyright Act defines "duplicating
 equipment" as under: 35. Thus, in so far as civil remedies are concerned, the Plaintiffs can seek
 the remedies of injunction, damages, etc. A plaintiff can also seek seizure of
 the duplicating equipment and plates used for creating infringing copies. 36. Apart from the civil remedies under the Copyright Act , infringement of
 copyright is also a criminal offence under Section 63 . It is, in fact, a
 cognizable offence, as recently upheld by the Supreme Court in M/s Knit Pro
 International v. The State of NCT of Delhi & Anr. [Crl . Appl. No. 807 of
 2022, decided on 20th May, 2022]. The relevant extract of the said decision reads as under: 37. Under Section 63 of the Copyright Act, the offence of infringement is
 committed not only by a person who infringes but also by a person who abets
 infringement. The relevant extract of the said Section is as under: 38. Under Section 64 , a police officer is empowered to seize all copies of
 the work and plates used for the purpose of making infringing copies. Under Section 65 , any person who possesses plates for the purpose of making
 infringing copies is also punishable with imprisonment and fine. Under Section 66 , the Court trying the offence has the power to direct disposal of the
 infringing copies or for delivery up to the owner of the copyright. Section 69 provides that if the offences are committed by a company, such persons who
 are responsible for conduct of the business of the company shall be liable to
 be proceeded against. 39. Thus, infringement of copyright is indisputably a serious matter as it
 involves valuable rights of owners of copyright. The significance of the
 protection and enforcement of such rights cannot be diminished, merely due
 to the growth of technology, which has made infringers easy to hide and
 conceal their illegal activities. The propensity of infringers to conceal and hide
 is the very reason due to which the provisions of law are widely worded. The
 definition of "plate" includes "any device used for reproducing copies of the
 work." The definition of "infringing copy", as extracted above, is broad
 enough to cover electronic copies which are circulated on Telegram channels.
 Electronic devices including smart phones, computers, servers, and such other
 devices, which permit copies to be made and to be disseminated would
 undoubtedly fall within the said definitions. This is also clear from the fact
 that Section 14(1)(a) specifically includes reproduction by "electronic CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 27 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 means." It is thus clear that the devices of the channel operators, which are
 permitting and enabling such dissemination and communication, would
 constitute "plates" within Section 2(t) of the Act and they would constitute
 "duplicating equipment". Therefore, both civil and criminal Courts in India
 would always be vested with jurisdiction to adequately deal with
 dissemination of infringing material through such devices and merely because
 the messaging service has its server located abroad, the same cannot result in
 the infringer escaping from the consequences of infringement. All contentions
 to the contrary would be untenable. Right to Claim Damages: 40. Moreover, apart from an injunction, one of the most significant
 remedies that an IP owner or a copyright owner is vested with, is the right to
 claim damages. Such damages, especially in cases of infringers who are
 earning large sums to the detriment and at the cost of the copyright owner,
 acts as a deterrent against further infringement. If infringers are permitted to
 mask their identity through technological means provided by messaging apps,
 and their identity is not directed to be disclosed, the remedy of damages
 against infringement would be rendered completely nugatory. Under Section
 55 of the Copyright Act, the owner has a right to seek damages as also
 accounts of profits. Accordingly, the grant of injunction per se in the absence
 of commensurate damages or monetary deterrents, would be a toothless relief.
 Such orders do not constrain the infringers from simply creating new
 infringing channels and even profit off of their infringement, till the time the
 plaintiff is able to seek an injunction for every new channel. As discussed
 above, the broadly worded provisions of the Copyright Act indicate a
 conscious legislative mandate to eliminate undue and continuous harassment CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 28 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 of plaintiffs in such situations where they have to repeatedly seek blocking
 orders against infringing channels. Thus, unless and until the identity of the
 operators of these channels - who are ex facie infringers of the Plaintiffs'
 copyright - are disclosed, the Plaintiffs are rendered remediless for recovering
 damages. 'Take down' or blocking orders are merely token relief for the
 interregnum and without monetary relief of damages, coupled with
 mushrooming of infringing platforms, the copyright owner's spirit to create
 and write may be considerably negated. The protection of the same is integral
 to the public policy behind the legislation as well. The legislative intention to
 prevent such continued infringement and effectively implement the
 provisions of the Copyright Act would be frustrated by any interpretation to
 the contrary. D. Infringement of the Plaintiffs' Copyright and Remedies 41. Plaintiff No.1 is a teacher who has invested enormous effort in
 preparing books and course material for students, who intend to give
 competitive examinations. She is a renowned author with various books
 covering a variety of subjects. She delivers lectures and coaching to students
 through online platforms, as also through her company KD Campus Pvt. Ltd. - Plaintiff No.2. The said company runs several coaching centres, where
 thousands of students have enrolled. Both the Plaintiffs have published course
 material, teaching material, books, sample question papers, educational
 books, question banks, model questions and previous year's question-answers
 etc. All this involves enormous labour and effort to satisfy the basic test of
 originality. During the pandemic, Plaintiff No.1 had delivered lectures online
 both through the website www.kdcampus.org and the Plaintiffs' mobile CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 29 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 application on Google Play Store. She has also made the lectures and classes
 available through her own Telegram channel called--t.me/kdlive. All
 students who wish to avail of the online classes and course materials have to
 register themselves and deposit the course fee. The students are also permitted
 to download the videos and view the same at their own convenience.
 Therefore, the Plaintiffs' material and lectures can be legally obtained by
 registering and purchasing the relevant courses. 42. The infringers have unabashedly made infringing copies of the
 Plaintiffs' works. A comparison of the Plaintiffs' material and the impugned
 channels' content as presented in the plaint, is extracted below: 43. These screenshots which have been incorporated in the plaint and the
 other infringing material disclosed on record, clearly leave no modicum of
 doubt that the channels, which are running on the Telegram platform, illegally
 and unauthorizedly are disseminating and communicating the Plaintiffs'
 works, that too for monetary gains and infringing the Plaintiffs' rights. The
 infringing channels are also so brazen that they use the names of the Plaintiffs,
 such as KD Publications, Neetu Singh, etc., in the channel titles, without any
 hesitation. 44. As discussed above, as per the provisions of the Copyright Act , the
 copies of the Plaintiffs' works, which are circulated on Telegram channels,
 constitute infringing copies of the Plaintiffs' works as defined under Section
 2(m) . In this background of clear infringement by the impugned channels,
 relying upon Sections 55 and 58 of the Copyright Act, as discussed above, the
 Court may direct seizure of the "infringing copies" in case of infringement, as CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 31 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 also of the "plates" used for creating such copies. Therefore, such plates,
 including mobile devices and servers, can be directed to be recovered. In the
 present case, the only party that is in possession of the information relating to
 the devices used, IP addresses used, channels created, number of users,
 identity of the devices through mobile numbers etc., is Defendant No.1 -
 Telegram. 45. This brings the Court to the defences taken by Telegram in its response
 to the prayer for disclosure. In this regard, this Court finds as under: In view of all these factors, Courts in India would be perfectly
 justified in directing Telegram, which runs its massive operations
 in India to adhere to Indian law and adhere to orders passed by
 Indian Courts for disclosure of relevant information relating to
 infringers. Infringers cannot be permitted to seek shelter under
 Telegram's policies merely on the ground that its physical server is
 in Singapore. (ii) In so far as the law in Singapore is concerned, the provisions of the
 PDPA, in fact, specifically recognize violations of law, as being an CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 34 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 exception to privacy, when details of the originators of the
 infringing data can be revealed. Such violation of law and
 investigation/proceedings, would obviously include violation of
 copyright and other intellectual property rights. The relevant
 provision of the PDPA of Singapore reads: ... FIRST SCHEDULE

 PART 3
 LEGITIMATE INTERESTS
 ... 3. The collection, use or disclosure (as the case
 may be) of personal data about an individual is
 necessary for any investigation or proceedings." Thus, the disclosure of personal data for the purpose of any
 proceedings, which would obviously include proceedings related to
 infringement of copyright would be a recognized exception to data
 privacy under the PDPA of Singapore. (iii) Moreover, copyrighted works are entitled to automatic protection
 in all WTO countries under the Berne Convention for the Protection
 of Literary and Artistic Works, 1886 read with the Agreement on
 Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS),
 1995. The Plaintiffs' copyrighted works are no exception to that. Article 1 of the said Convention provides as under: Singapore is a signatory to the Berne convention and a WTO
 country as well. Thus, the Plaintiffs' works would enjoy protection
 even under the laws of Singapore. These are reciprocal protections
 granted to authors who can enjoy rights across the world even
 without seeking registrations. India recognizes copyright in foreign
 works and reciprocally, foreign countries recognize the copyright
 granted under Indian Law. In view of this position of the law
 regarding copyright, compliance with local law, i.e., PDPA, cannot
 be an excuse for Telegram to justify the non-furnishing of the
 information relating to the channels through which dissemination
 of infringing content takes place as, such dissemination, would in CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 36 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 the opinion of this Court, be violative of law, even under the laws
 of Singapore. (iv) In respect of Telegram's submission of it being an intermediary,
 and being obliged to not disclose the details of the originator of the
 information, in the opinion of this Court, merely disabling or taking
 down channels upon information being given to Telegram is an
 insufficient remedy, as also discussed in paragraph 39 above. The
 channels are clearly hydra-headed and are surfacing one after the
 other owing to the ease with which they can be created, with just
 another mobile number or email address. (v) Telegram has also relied upon Rules 3 and 4 of the IT Guidelines. The said Rules read as under: XXX
 Rule 4. Additional due diligence to be observed by
 significant social media intermediary. ... (2) A significant social media intermediary providing
 services primarily in the nature of messaging shall
 enable the identification of the first originator of the
 information on its computer resource as may be
 required by a judicial order passed by a court of
 competent jurisdiction or an order passed under section 69 by the Competent Authority as per the
 Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards
 for interception, monitoring and decryption of CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 38 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 information) Rules, 2009, which shall be supported
 with a copy of such information in electronic form: (vi) As held in Myspace (supra), the intermediary is to be granted safe
 harbour, so long as it complies with the requirements of law. In the
 present case, the infringement has to be nipped in the bud, without
 which Courts would have to continue to repeatedly pass injunction
 orders against mushrooming channels containing infringing
 content. The Court cannot perpetually supervise such infringements
 and, thus, the origin and source of the infringing material has to be
 traced and such devices or persons involved in the infringement CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 40 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 ought to face consequences in accordance with law, including being
 held liable for damages. That would not be possible if the source of
 such infringing copies, i.e., the details of the infringing channels are
 not disclosed. Pertinently, such production of details of infringing
 devices or persons or other sources, is not a comment on Telegram's
 liability and does not derogate from safe harbour provisions. In fact,
 it is aligned with the view of Telegram's claimed role as an
 intermediary, which claims to act as a conduit of information. (vii) Disclosure of such information is relevant and material to the
 present case, contrary to what is pleaded by Telegram in its reply.
 Even applying the broad principles of Order XI CPC , the Court can
 direct disclosure of documents and information relating to 'any
 matter in question in a suit'. The Delhi High Court in A.K.
 Aggarwal v. Shanti Devi [CM(M) Appeal No.154 and 155 of 1995,
 decided on 17th October, 1995], held that seeking interrogatories
 must be encouraged: "4. Order XI of the CPC , contains salutary
 provision which are intended to curtail evidence
 thereby expediting trial of suit and as such their
 provisions are very useful. They have to be
 liberally used and parties have to be encouraged
 to use them in the course of trial. The provision
 of Order XI, Civil Procedure Code do not deserve
 a technical or truncated approach. Ultimately the
 use of these provisions saves time of the Court and
 costs of litigation to the parties. "Jessel M.R. in
 Attorney-General vs. Gashill (1882) 20 Ch. 519,
 said: "Now, one of the great objects of
 interrogatories when properly administered has
 always been to save evidence, that is to diminish CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 41 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 the burden of proof which was otherwise on the
 plaintiff. Their object is not merely to discover facts
 which will inform the plaintiff as to evidence to be
 obtained, but also to save the expense of proving a
 part on the case. Cotton L.T., J, said: exam, at the trial". If the appellants answer the
 question regarding parentage and the Will of the
 deceased Thakur Dass, the plaintiff would be CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 42 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 relieved of the obligation to prove to that extent.
 She will not be required to call witnesses. She will
 save great expenditure and trouble if these
 interrogatories are answered. It may possibly
 happen that the plaintiff will find that she has no
 need to call any witnesses. In short interrogatories
 are admissible which go to support the applicant's
 case or to impeach or destroy the opponent's case
 Plymouth Mutual Co-op. Society vs. Traders
 Publishing Association (1906) 1 LJ. 415. This
 means that the right to interrogate is not confined
 to the facts the existence or non-existence of which
 is relevant to the facts already in issue (per Lord
 Esher. M.K. in Marriot vs. Chamberlain ( 1886)
 QBD. 154. In the case of Suthurland (Duke) v. British Dominions Land Settlement Corporation.
 1926 1 C.H. 746, Mr. Justice Tomlin said that the
 administering of interrogatories is a step which is
 more often desirable than undesirable and is to be
 encouraged rather than to be discouraged,
 because they not infrequently bring an action to
 an end at an earlier stage than otherwise would
 be the case, to the advantage of all parties
 concerned. ..." (viii) This position was also most recently reiterated in Tara Batra v. Punam
 A. Kumar & Ors. [CM(M)No. 925/2019, decided on 10 th September,
 2021] by a Coordinate Bench of this Court. In the present suit, the most
 important information is the details relating to the origin of the
 infringing copies of the copyrighted works. (ix) Even under the provisions of the IT Act , such as under Section 79(3)(b) ,
 Telegram has a duty to expeditiously remove or disable access to the
 unlawful material, without vitiating the evidence in any manner. In
 addition, under Rule 3 of the IT Guidelines, the intermediary has a duty CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 43 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 to tell its users not to host, display, upload, modify, publish, transmit,
 update or share any information, which infringes on copyright or other
 proprietary rights or violates any law. This is buttressed by the fact that
 under its own Privacy Policy, Telegram does not permit spamming,
 phishing and other abuses. Under such circumstances, as per clause 2
 of its own Privacy Policy, fundamental rights would not come to the
 aid of protection of personal data related to the infringers, as it is only
 the "processing" of data, which can be stopped for protection of
 fundamental rights. Disclosure pursuant to an order passed by a Court
 of law of the details of the channel operators who are disseminating
 materials infringing the copyrighted works, or the devices and other
 gadgets used, cannot be shielded under the grounds of protection of
 privacy or protection of freedom of speech and expression. Disclosure
 of such data pursuant to a Court order would not fall in the definition
 of "processing", which is the only activity that is restricted by the
 infringing users' fundamental rights. Telegram's own privacy policy
 does not recognize the defence, which has been canvassed before this
 Court. (x) Further reliance was placed by Telegram on the laws of privacy
 protection under Article 21 of the Constitution and Article 19(1)(a) of
 the Constitution, which protects the right to freedom of speech and
 expression. The same is completely inapposite in these facts and
 circumstances. The right to freedom of speech or the right to life
 including the right to privacy cannot be used by any person or entity,
 let alone an infringer, in order to escape the consequences of illegal
 actions. (xi) In this vein, Telegram also relied upon the judgement of the Supreme
 Court in Puttaswamy (supra). The relevant extract of the said decision reads as under: As per the above extract from K.S. Puttaswamy (supra) it is clear that
 the Supreme Court recognises that if there is a law in existence to justify
 the disclosure of information and there is a need for the disclosure
 considering the nature of encroachment of the right then privacy cannot
 be a ground to justify non-disclosure, so long as the same is not
 disproportionate. In India, the Copyright Act is clearly a law, which CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 46 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 requires "infringing copies" to be taken into custody. The Copyright
 Act recognizes the right of the copyright owner to claim damages and
 rendition of accounts in respect of such infringement. Secondly,
 whenever the data is sought for a legitimate purpose, and for curbing
 the violation of law, including infringement of copyright, the same
 would be in accordance with the legal position recognised in K.S.
 Puttaswamy (supra). (xii) Finally, a perusal of the provisions of Section 81 of the IT Act shows
 that the provisions of the IT Act are supplemental to the provisions of
 the Copyright Act . The said provision reads as under: The raison d'etre for the introduction of this proviso is in fact made
 clear in the Lok Sabha Debates when the provision was introduced and
 the Report of the Expert Committee pursuant to which the said provide
 was introduced. The said material clearly indicates that the purpose of
 the proviso to Section 81 was for the IT Act to be not in derogation of,
 but supplementary to the provisions of the Copyright Act . The relevant
 extract of the said debate is as under:7
 "Clause 40.- This clause proposes to insert a
 proviso to Section 81 so that the rights conferred 7 The Information Technology (Amendment) Bill, 2006, Bill No.96 of 2006, As introduced in the Lok
 Sabha, Dec 15, 2006. under this section shall be supplementary to and
 not in derogation of the provisions of the copyright
 Act or the Patents Act ." (xiii) This position was also upheld by this Court in the context of a
 trademark infringement case against e-commerce platforms in Christian Louboutin Sas v. Nakul Bajaj &Ors. , (2018) 253 DLT 728,
 where this Court held as under: 79. The overriding nature of the IT Act has
 application only if the provisions of the Trade
 Mark Act are inconsistent with the provisions of the IT Act . The Intermediary Guidelines 2011
 themselves require compliance with the TM Act by
 the persons to host, display or upload the products
 or services. The provisions of Section 29 , Section
 101 and Section 102 of the TM Act, are being
 looked at in order to interpret as to what
 constitutes 'conspiring, abetting, aiding or
 inducing' the commission of an unlawful act, in the
 context of trade mark rights. The provisions of the
 TM Act are not in any manner inconsistent with the
 provisions of the IT Act . Hence Section 81 of the IT
 Act does not grant any immunity to intermediaries
 who may be in violation of the provisions of the TM CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 48 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 Act. While, use of a mark for any of the purposes
 elaborated above, in respect of genuine goods of
 the owner would not be infringement, the
 performance of any service as elaborated above, in
 respect of counterfeit goods or goods which are not
 genuine, could constitute infringement....." (xiv) It is also worth noting that during the COVID-19 pandemic, teachers
 and the education system as a whole, have taken great initiative to
 ensure access of educational materials to students through online
 modes such as videos, PDF documents, etc. If the protection of
 copyright is not evolved as per the changing times, it would have a
 chilling effect on the progressive initiatives taken by educators in
 sharing their materials and ensuring accessibility. (xv) Lastly, in so far as Telegram's submission regarding the Plaintiffs not
 providing verifiable proof that their copyright has been infringed are
 concerned, the Court notes that there is clear inconsistency between the
 stand of Telegram at different instances. While it states that proof of
 infringement is required, it has already blocked various infringing
 channels and abided by the order dated 28 th July, 2020, without
 demanding further proof, including private channels. In any event, this
 Court has found a prima facie case of infringement, which is sufficient
 to direct Telegram to enable the Plaintiffs to available of their remedies
 under the Copyright Act . 46. In view of the above factual and legal position, in the opinion of this
 Court, merely because Telegram chooses to locate its server in Singapore, the
 same cannot result in the Plaintiffs' - who are copyright owners of course
 materials - being left completely remediless against the actual infringers, CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 49 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 especially in order to claim damages and avail of other legal remedies in
 accordance with law. If such an argument is accepted, in the current world
 where most dissemination happens through online messaging services and
 platforms, IP violations would go completely unchecked. This cannot be the
 intention of law. The provisions of the IT Act and the Rules made therein have
 to be construed harmoniously with the rights and remedies provided to the
 copyright owners under the Copyright Act . Indian Courts are competent to
 decide issues relating to infringement of copyright and the mere fact that
 Telegram is operating a messaging service in India which chooses not to
 locate its servers in India cannot divest the Indian Courts from dealing with
 copyright disputes or divest copyright owners from availing their remedies in
 Indian Courts. In the present age of cloud computing and diminishing
 national boundaries in data storage, conventional concepts of territoriality
 cannot be strictly applied. The dynamic evolution of law is essential to ensure
 appropriate remedies in case of violation of copyright and other IP laws. 47. In the facts and circumstances of the present case, Telegram-Defendant
 No.1 is directed to disclose the details of the channels/devices used in
 disseminating the infringing content, mobile numbers, IP addresses, email
 addresses, etc., used to upload the infringing material and communicate the
 same, as per the list of channels filed along with the present application. If
 there are any further list of infringing channels, the same be also submitted to
 Telegram within one week. The data relating to the infringing channels and
 the details as to the devices/servers/networks on which they are created, their
 creators, operators including any phone numbers, IP addresses, email
 addresses, used for this purpose shall be disclosed by Telegram within a
 period of two weeks thereafter. The said information shall at this stage be filed CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 50 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31 in a sealed cover with the Court. Upon perusing the said information,
 directions, if any, shall be passed after hearing the parties. 48. I.A. 8461/2020 is disposed of in the above terms. PRATHIBA M. SINGH
 JUDGE
 AUGUST 30, 2022/dk/ms CS (COMM) 282/2020 Page 51 of 51 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:31.08.2022 12:12:31