- 1. This commercial division summary suit is instituted for

 recovery of a sum of Rs.49,58,07,719/-, along with interest on

 the basis of written contract and negotiable instruments. 2. The material averments in the plaint can be summarized

 as under: Defendant no.1 is a company incorporated under the Companies 1/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

Act, 1956. In the year 2016, defendant no.1 had approached the

plaintiff for extending a Rupee Term Loan facility of Rs.37

Crores. Pursuant to the representation made by defendant no.1,

the plaintiff had issued an offer letter dated 25 th January, 2016

incorporating the terms and conditions of the loan facility. The

defendant no.1 unconditionally accepted the offer. Thereupon a

loan agreement came to be executed on 27 th January, 2016. The

loan agreement inter alia provided for the tenure of the loan, the

interest on the amount to be advanced, the action to be initiated

by the plaintiff in the event of default, the securities to be

provided by the defendant no.1 and the guarantors. (b) In consideration of the loan to defendant no.1,

defendant no.2 executed a letter of guarantee dated 27 th

January, 2016 and unconditionally and irrevocably agreed to

pay on demand the outstanding amount payable by defendant

no.1 along with interest and other charges. Defendant no.3 also

executed a letter of guarantee and unconditionally and

irrevocably undertook to discharge the liability of defendant

no.1. In addition, defendant no.1 executed a Demand

Promissory Note dated 27th January, 2016 in favour of the

plaintiff. A pari passu charge was created under the

Memorandun of the Entry dated 27th January, 2016 in favour of 2/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

the plaintiff. Defendant no.3 also executed an agreement of

pledge dated 27th January, 2016 in favour of the plaintiff and

thereby pledged shares of ICOMM Tele Limited. Another

agreement of pledge was executed on 19 th December, 2017 by

defendant no.1 and Isitva Pvt. Ltd. in favour of the plaintiff

thereby pledging securities held by Isitva Fasteners Pvt. Ltd in

Isitva Steel Pvt. Ltd. (c) Upon execution of the aforesaid agreement and

instruments, the plaintiff disbursed a sum of Rs.37 Crores to

the defendant no.1 through HDFC Bank Ltd. (d) Defendant no.1 failed to remit the interest which had

fallen due in the month of March, 2016. A letter was addressed

on 13th April, 2016 calling upon the defendant to make the due

payment. As there were further defaults in payment of interest

on the loan facility, the plaintiff called upon the defendant to

make payment of accrued interest vide letters dated 11 th May,

2016, 15th June, 2016 and 15th July, 2016. With the persistent

failure and negligence on the part of defendant nos.1 and 3 to

make the payment, the plaintiff was constrained to issue notice

on 19th July, 2016. Since there was no compliance of the

demand, the plaintiff was constrained to call upon defendant

no.1 to make the payment of the entire due amount of 3/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

Rs.38,28,77,785/- and notified that in the event of default the

plaintiff would be constrained to initiate requisite action. The

aforesaid notice did not elicit positive response. Hence, by

notice dated 29th August, 2016 the plaintiff invoked the pledge.

Eventually, vide notice dated 14th December, 2018, defendant

nos.2 and 3 were called upon to make payment of the then

outstanding amount of Rs.48,45,20,075/-. The defendants

failed to make the payment. Hence, the plaintiff was constrained

to institute this suit for recovery of the aforesaid amount along

with future interest. 3. Defendant nos.1 to 3 appeared in response to the writ of

summons. 4. Thereupon, the plaintiff has taken out the summons for

judgment. 5. An affidavit-in-reply was filed on behalf of defendant no.1

on 26th July, 2019. Defendant nos.2 and 3 have adopted the

contentions in the affidavit-in-reply filed on behalf of defendant

no.1. The defendants have sought an unconditional leave to

defend the suit. 6. At the outset, the defendants contend that the plaintiff

has not approached the Court with clean hands. The plaintiff

has been undergoing serious investigation for lapses in its books 4/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

of account. Thus, the plaintiff does not deserve any relief. The

tenability of the suit was also assailed on the ground that the

instruments relied upon by the plaintiff, namely, loan agreement

and letters of guarantee are insufficiently stamped. In view of

the provisions contained in Sections 33 and 34 of the

Maharashtra Stamps Act, 1958, those insufficiently stamped

instruments are required to be impounded. Till the stamp-duty

and requisite penalty thereon, if any, is paid those instruments

cannot be acted upon. Therefore, those instruments cannot

furnish a foundation for a claim in the summary suit. 7. On merits, the defendants contended that the purported

extension of loan facility is a sham device. The real nature of

transaction in question is of a structured arrangement whereby

the plaintiff had advanced monies to associate companies of

ICOMM and Isitva Ventures, to whom the plaintiff had advanced

loans in the year 2008, and those amounts were transferred to

the accounts of ICOMM or Isitva Ventures for being paid back to

the plaintiff. This device was adopted to show that the accounts

of the plaintiff were clean. The defendants have furnished a trail

of transactions which were allegedly part of this structured

arrangement. Eventually, according to the defendants, the

loan amount of Rs.9 Crore advanced to U. V. Solar Power 5/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

Systems Private Limited and Isitva Fasteners became overdue.

Thus, the plaintiff advanced a sum of Rs.37 Crores to defendant

no.1. Out of which, a sum of Rs.9,53,17,768.20 was transferred

by defendant no.1 to U. V. Solar, who, in turn, transferred the

said amount to the plaintiff. Likewise, a sum of

Rs.27,44,86,560/- was transferred from the account of

defendant no.1 to the account of Isitva Fasteners. The

defendants contend that both U. V. Solar and defendant no.1

were non-operational companies on the date on which the

structured arrangements were entered into by the parties.

Defendant no.1 was merely used as conduit to infuse money

into Isitva Fastener and U. V. Solar. 8. Leave to defend was also sought on the count that the

plaintiff invoked the pledge and sold the shares at sub-optimum

price. The plaintiff made no efforts to obtain best possible price

for the sale of pledged shares. Therefore, on this count also, the

defendants have raised triable issues. 9. The defendants have thus sought an unconditional leave

to defend the suit on the following counts; (i) the suit claim is based on insufficiently stamped

 instruments; 6/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC (ii) the purported transaction of loan is sham and it

 was as exercise in evergreening the loan

 accounts; (iii) the plaintiff failed to realize the best price for the

 pledged shares and the failure to sale the shares at

 an opportunate time caused prejudice to the

 defendants. 10. In the light of the aforesaid pleadings, I have heard Dr.

Saraf, the learned Senior Counsel for the plaintiff and Dr.

Tuljapurkar, the learned Senior Counsel for the defendants.

With the assistance of the learned Counsels for the parties, I

have perused the pleadings and the material on record. 11. At the outset, Dr. Saraf urged that the defendants have

raised the very same defences which have all been negatived by

this Court in a judgment in the plaintiff's own case; IL & FC

Financial Serviced Limited vs. SKIL Infrastructure Limited and

ors. in Summons for Judgment No.30 of 2019 with connected

matters. 12. Dr. Saraf submitted that with the development in law, the

defence of inadequacy of the stamp-duty has been further

eroded. The defence of evergreening of loan accounts, even if

taken at par, does not furnish a ground for grant of 7/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

unconditional leave to defend the suit. Nor the defence of the

alleged failure on the part of the plaintiff to secure the optimum

price of the pledged shares, after the invocation of pledge,

carries any substance in view of the rights of the pledgee,

recognized under Section 176 of the Indian Contract Act. 13. Dr. Tuljapurkar countered the submissions of Dr. Saraf by

canvassing that in the very judgment of SKIL Infrastructure (supra), on which reliance is placed by the plaintiff, this Court

in paragraph no. 93, enumerated the reasons which warranted

the grant of leave to the defendants therein. Those very

grounds, according to Mr. Tuljapurkar, would negate the case of

the plaintiff that the defence of the defendant is moonshine or

malafide. All the three grounds, adverted to above, according to

Mr. Tuljapurkar, are worthy to be classified as giving rise to

strong and substantial defence. 14. Dr. Tuljapurkar, in addition, urged that, indisputably, the

loan is secured by mortgage of the immovable property. The

plaintiff has not given up the said security. Thus, unless and

until the plaintiff gives up the security, a summary suit under

Order XXXVII is not tenable. On this count alone, according to

Mr. Tuljapurkar, the defendants are entitled to an unconditional

leave to defend the suit. Since the loan is secured, an order for 8/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

deposit of the amount as a condition for leave to defend is

wholly unwarranted, submitted Mr. Tuljapurkar. 15. Before adverting to deal with the aforesaid rival

submissions, it would be imperative to note that the advance of

a loan of Rs.37 Crores by the plaintiff to the defendants

pursuant to the loan agreement dated 27th January, 2016 is

incontrovertible. In paragraph 11 of the affidavit-in-reply, there

is a clear and categorical assertion that the plaintiff had

advanced an amount of Rs.37 Crores to defendant no.1. What

the defendants have endavoured to demonstrate is that the real

purpose of the said financial facility was to enable the other

group entities of the defendants to repay the loan, which they

owed to the plaintiff, as a part of a structured arrangement. 16. The fact that the defendant no.1 had availed the said loan

of Rs.37 Crores from the plaintiff finds support in the

contemporaneous documents as well as the correspondence

addressed on behalf of defendant no.1. The said advance is

reflected in the balance-sheet of defendant no.1 as of 31 st March,

2016. The fact that the said amount was, in turn, advanced by

defendant no.1 to its group entities Istiva Fastners Pvt. Ltd.

(Rs.27,44,86,560/-) and U. V. Solar Power Systems Pvt. Ltd.

(Rs.9,53,17,768/-) is also reflected against, "related party 9/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

disclosure". In the reply to the notice dated 19 th August, 2016,

demanding the repayment of the entire loan, defendant no.1

acknowledged the receipt of the loan and assured to address the

issue of payment of interest. Lastly, in the communication

dated 17th April, 2018, again the outstanding principal of

Rs.31.4 Crores along with the accrued interest thereon, was

acknowledged. 17. In the backdrop of aforesaid clear and explicit

acknowledgment of the debt, the quality of the defences sought

to be put-forth by the defendants to seek unconditional leave to

defend deserves consideration. The fulcrum of the defence is

that the transaction in question had an outwardly appearance

of loan but, in reality, it was a device to recover the loan which

had become due from the group entities, by way of a structured

arrangement. The defendants have banked upon the sequence

of transactions of the plaintiff with multiple group entities of

defendant no.1 to bolster up the defence that the exercise was

one of evergreening the loans. The plaintiff was aware of the

precarious financial condition of defendant no.1 and also of the

fact that group companies to whom loans were advanced were

non-operational entities. Thus, the advance of huge loan 10/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

amount to defendant no.1 was in breach of prudent financial

norms, which proscribe evergreening of the loans. 18. In the case of SKIL Infrastructure (supra), I had an

occasion to deal with an identical defence. In the said case, the

defence had an added advantage of a report of Serious Fraud

Investigation Office ("SFIO"), which indicated that the plaintiff

had resorted to the device of evergreening of loans to show a

healthy book. The consequences of non-compliance of directions

issued by Reserve Bank of India (against evergreening of the

loans) were considered. After placing reliance on the judgment

of the Supreme Court in the case of B.O.I. Finance Ltd. Vs.

Custodian and others1 the issue was determined as under: compliance of directions issued by the Reserve Bank of
 India will not result in invalidation of the agreement

1(1997) 10 SCC 488. 2(1978) 21 ALR 585. COMSS559-2019.DOC

executed in breach thereof. The observations in
paragraphs 32 to 34 read as under: Marles V. Philip Trant & Sons Ltd. (1954) 1 Q.B.
 29, at p. 37, per Denning L.J, and that it would
 be a curious thing if the offender is to be
 punished twice, civilly as well as criminally (st.
 John Shipping Corporation Vs. Joseph Rank Ltd.
 (1957) 1 Q.B. 267, at p. 292, per Devlin J.). The
 main considerations from which the principle ex
 turpi causa arose can be seen in the reluctance of
 the courts to be instrumental in offering an 12/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

inducement to crime or removing a restraint to
crime: Beresford's Case (1938) A.C. at pp. 586;
Amicable Society Vs. Bolland (1830) 4 Bligh (N.S)
194 at P. 211. However, in the present case Parliament
has provided a penalty which is a measure of the
deterrent which it intends to operate in respect of
non-compliance with Section 8 . In this case it is
not for the court to hold that further
consequences should flow, consequences which
in financial terms could well far exceed the
prescribed penalty and could even conceivably
lead the plaintiff to insolvency with resultant loss
to innocent lenders or with resultant loss to
innocent lenders or investors. In saying this I am
mindful that there could be a case where the
facts disclose that the plaintiff stands to gain by
enforcement of rights gained through an illegal
activity far more than the prescribed penalty. This
circumstance might provide a sufficient
foundation for attributing a different intention to
the legislature. It may be that the true basis of
the principle is that the court will refuse to
enforce a transaction with a fraudulent or
immoral purpose : Bereford Vs. Royal Insurance
Co. Ltd. (1937) 2 K.B. 197 at p. 220 . On this
basis the common law principle of ex turpi causa
can be given and operation consistent with ,
through subordinate to, the statutory intention,
dying relief in those cases where a plaintiff may
otherwise evade the real consequences of a
breach of statutory prohibition." (emphasis added) 33. The aforesaid principles will clearly be
applicable in the present case as well. The non-
compliance of the directions issued by the
Reserve Bank may result in prosecution/or levy
of penalty under Section 46 , but it cannot result
in invalidation of any contract by the bank with
the third party. If the contention of the Custodian
is accepted it will result in invalidation of
agreements by the banks, even where the third
parties may not be aware of the directions which
are being violated. To give an example if the
Reserve Bank by confidential circulars fixes the
limit in excess of which the banks cannot give
any loan but, without informing the third party,
the bank while exceeding its limit gives a loan
which is then utilised by the bank's customer. It
will be inequitable and improper to hold that as
the directions of the Reserve Bank had not been
complied with by the bank, the grant of loan 13/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

 cannot be regarded as valid and, as a
 consequence thereof, the customer must return
 the amount received even though he may have
 utilised the same in his business. Yet another
 instance may be where the bank advances loan
 by charging interest at a rate lower than the
 minimum which may have been fixed by the
 Reserve Bank, in a direction issued under Section
 36 (1)(a) . As far as the customer is concerned, it
 may not be aware of the direction fixing them
 minimum rate of interest. Can it be said, in such
 a case, that the advance of loan itself was illegal
 or that the bank would be entitled to receive the
 higher rate of interest ? In our opinion it will be
 wholly unjust and inequitable to hold that such
 transactions entered into by the bank with a
 customer, which transactions are otherwise not
 invalid, can be regarded as void because the bank
 did not follow the directions or instructions
 issued by the Reserve Bank of India. 34. The instructions which were issued by the
 said circulars were meant to complied with by the
 banking companies only and did not purport to,
 nor could they, be binding on the third parties.
 This being so, even if the appellant banks had
 been prohibited from entering into the buy-back
 arrangements in question, that by itself, would
 not invalidate the contracts though the
 infringement of the said directions may lead to
 action being taken under Section 46 of the Act." (emphasis supplied) 37. Reliance was also placed on the judgment of the
 Supreme Court in the case of Canara Bank and others vs.
 Standard Chartered Bank3 . In the said case also, a defence
 was sought to be advanced that the transaction therein was
 contrary to the circulars of the Reserve Bank and opposed
 to public policy. The Supreme court after referring to its
 earlier judgment in the case of B.O.I. Finance (supra)
 observed that the instructions issued by the Reserve Bank
 of India were meant to be complied with only by the banking
 companies and could not be regarded as binding on the
 other parties. There was no evidence raised or sought to be
 raised in the said case which could possibly have led the
 Court to the conclusion that the transaction was opposed to
 public policy. 38. The exposition of the aforesaid legal position indicates
 that non-observance of the directives or the circulars of the
 Reserve Bank of India by the banking companies, though

3(2002) 10 Supreme Court Cases 697. COMSS559-2019.DOC

 they are statutorily enjoined to observe, does not necessarily
 lead to invalidation of the underlying transactions. The
 judgment of the High Court of Australia in the case of Yango
 Pastoral (supra) which was referred to in the case of B.O.I.
 Finance (supra), with approval, was in the backdrop of the
 direct breach of a statutory provision. There was a
 prohibition against carrying on the banking business
 without an express authority of the Reserve Bank. Yet, the
 Court held that despite absence of a requisite licence to
 carry on banking business, the transaction is not void or
 unenforceable. 39. In the case at hand, the infraction on the part of the
 plaintiff, is comparatively minor. What is found by SFIO is
 that the plaintiff went on to advance loan to other group
 companies so that the earlier loan could be repaid and the
 financial statements of the plaintiff could be shown in better
 health." 19. The aforesaid reasoning applies with equal force to the

facts of the case at hand. 20. Moreover, it is pertinent to note the purpose for which the

defendant had availed the loan. The funds provided under the

facility were to be utilised for long term working capital

requirements and/or refinance and/or general corporate

purposes, acceptable to the plaintiff. The aforesaid purpose

does not exclude the financing by defendant no.1 to its group

entities. 21. On the basis of the material on record, a legitimate

inference can be drawn that the plaintiff indulged in imprudent

and risky financial business. However, the non-observance of

prudent lending norms does not necessarily imply that the very

transaction is void. The contention that defendant no.1 was 15/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

made to avail the loan, unwillingly, which is now sought to be

suggested, did not find mention in any of the pre-suit

correspondence emanating from defendant no.1. I, therefore,

find it rather difficult to accede to the submission on behalf of

the defendants that the plaintiff's resort to the practice of

"structured arrangement" or "evergreening of loans", furnishes a

ground for unconditional leave to defend the suit. 22. The ground of non-invocation of pledged shares at an

opportunate time so that the pledged shares could fetch

optimum price, is rested on the premise that around the time

the plaintiff sold the pledged shares at the rate of Rs.5.18 per

share, the lenders of ICOMM Tele Limited had, pursuant to the

strategic debts restricting scheme, converted a portion of their

debt into the equity at Rs.10 per share. Thus, according to the

defendants, it becomes evident that the plaintiff had not made

requisite efforts to obtain best possible price for the pledged

shares. 23. Dr. Saraf the learned Counsel for the plaintiff was justified

in canvassing a submission that the defendants have not placed

on record any material to substantiate the aforesaid claim. Even

otherwise, according to Dr. Saraf, the aforesaid ground does not

furnish a sustainable defence for grant of an unconditional leave 16/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

to defend the suit. In view of the provisions contained in Section

176 of the Indian Contract Act, the pledgee is not bound to take

recourse to the securities. Nor the pledgee can be blamed for

not invoking the securities at a particular point of time. Thus,

the defence of non-invoking the pledged shares at a time the

share commanded the highest price, does not raise a triable

issue, urged Dr. Saraf. 24. Reverting to the facts of the case, it is imperative to note

that the defendants do not claim that the plaintiff did not

exercise the power of sale, despite a specific request having been

made by the defendants to sell the shares. In fact, no grievance

seems to have been raised, at any point of time, regarding the

sale of pledge shares, till the affidavit-in-reply came to be filed.

The claim that optimum price was not fetched is based on the

alleged conversion of debt into equity under strategic debt

restructuring. It is not the case of the defendants that at the

relevant point of time, the market price of the shares was in the

higher range. Restructuring of the debt, under strategic debt

restructuring scheme, can hardly be compared with the sale of a

shares at market price. A liberal valuation, under a strategic

debt restructuring scheme, therefore, cannot be the barometer

for determination of the market price of the shares. More often 17/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

than not the conversion of a portion of debt into equity is a

measure of adjustment, arrived at post negotiations, rather than

an unhinged purchase of shares in the market. I am therefore

not persuaded to agree with the submission on behalf of the

defendants that the plaintiff failed to secure the best price for

the pledged shares and, on this count, the defendants are

entitled to an unconditional leave to defend the suit. 25. This propels me to the third ground of the instruments

being not adequately stamped. According to the defendants, on

the Loan Agreement and Letters of guarantee stamp duty of only

Rs.200/- each, has been paid. However, under Article 5(h)(a)(iv) of the Maharashtra Stamps Act, 1958 ("the Stamps Act "), the

Loan Agreement and the Letters of Guarantee are amenable to

the stamp-duty of 0.2% of the amount covered by the

agreement. Consequently, in view of the provisions contained in Sections 33 and 34 of the Stamps Act those instruments cannot

be acted upon and are required to be impounded under Section

37 of the Stamps Act. 26. On the aspect of the payment of the stamp duty, on the

instruments in question, prima faice, the defence appears to be

sustainable. The question that, however, wrenches to fore is 18/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

whether inadequacy of stamp-duty can be a ground to grant an

unconditional leave to defend the suit. 27. In the case of SKIL Infrastructure (supra) I considered the

challenge based on insufficienly stamped instruments in a

greater detail. After adverting to the rival submissions in the

said case, which, by and large, proceeded on the lines as

canvassed in this case, and various pronouncements of this

Court as well as of the Supreme Court in the cases of SMS Tea

Estates Pvt. Ltd. vs. Chandmari Tea Co. Pvt. Ltd.4 and Garware

Wall Ropes Ltd. vs. Coastal Marine Constructions and

Engineering Ltd.5 , the legal positions was enunciated as under: 83. The aspect of insufficiency of stamp-duty and the bar
 incorporated by the provisions of Section 34 of the Stamp
 Act, 1958, is required to be considered in the backdrop of
 the special procedure prescribed in Order XXXVII of the
 Code for expeditious resolution of disputes based on
 negotiable instrument and written contracts etc.
 Indisputably, adjudication of deficit stamp-duty is within the
 province of the authorities under the Stamp Act, 1958 . The
 adjudication orders are amenable to appeals and revisions.
 Can the Court stay its hands off and not consider the aspect
 of grant of leave till the question of proper stamp-duty is
 finally adjudicated? 84. An answer to aforesaid question warrants a
 harmonious construction of the provisions contained in Section 34 of the Stamp Act and the provisions contained in
 Order XXXVII of the Code. Even in the case of Garware (supra) the Supreme Court adverted to the principle of
 harmonious construction. The Supreme Court thus
 observed in paragraph 37 as under: 85. A useful reference, in this context, can be made to a
 judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Indian Bank
 vs. Maharashtra State Cooperative Marketing Federation
 Ltd.7 , wherein the principle of harmonious construction was
 applied in the context of the provisions contained in Order
 XXXVII of the Code and Section 10 of the Code which
 warrant the stay of the trial of the subsequent suit in which
 the matter in issue is also directly and substantially in issue
 in a previously instituted suit. After considering the object
 of Section 10 of the Code and the object of the special
 scheme envisaged by Order XXXVII of the Code, it was, inter
 alia, held that considering the objects of both the provisions
 i.e. Section 10 and Order XXXVII wider interpretation of the
 word "trial" is not called for and the word "trial" in Section
 10 , in the context of summary suit, cannot be interpreted to
 mean the entire proceedings starting with institution of the
 suit by lodging a plaint. In a summary suit, the "trial" really
 begins after the Court or the Judge grants leave to contest
 the suit. Therefore, the Court or Judge dealing with the
 summary suit can proceed up to the stage of hearing the
 summons for judgment and passing the judgment in favour
 of the plaintiff if (a) the defendant has not applied for leave to
 defend and/or if such application has been made and
 refused or if (b) the defendant who is permitted to defend

7(1998) 5 SCC 69. COMSS559-2019.DOC

fails to comply with the conditions on which leave to defend
is granted. 86. Placing heavy reliance upon the aforesaid proposition,
it was urged by Dr. Saraf that at the stage of summons for
judgment, it is not peremptory to defer the consideration
where the instrument is either unstamped or insufficiently
stamped. The said objection, in the backdrop of the nature
of the summary procedure, wherein at the stage of the
summons for judgment the Court has to consider the nature
of the defence sought to be put-forth by the defendant,
cannot be stated to be a defence in the strict sense of the
term and constitutes a mere technical objection. Thus, the
course adopted by the learned Single Judges, in the cases referred to above , of impounding the document and sending
it for adjudication simultaneously with the passing of order
of grant of leave, cannot be said to be unsustainable. Nor it
would cause any prejudice to the defendants. 87. Undoubtedly, Section 34 of the Act precludes the Court
from even acting upon unstamped or insufficiently stamped
instrument. However, the fact that the measure is
indisputably for protection of the revenue as the recovery of
the stamp-duty on the instrument and penalty for its non-
payment, where-ever chargeable is practicable, where the
Court or authority before which the instrument is tendered
holds seisin of the matter, cannot be lost sight of. 88. In a summary suit, while deciding a summons for
judgment, the options which the Court exercises, equip the
court to ensure that the requisite stamp-duty is recovered,
wherever the instrument is either unstamped or
insufficiently stamped. If the Court grants an unconditional
leave to defend, the Court can very well direct that the
instrument be impounded and the procedure prescribed
under Section 37 of the Act be resorted to. Even when the
Court grants conditional leave, the Court can issue such
directions. In a case, where the Court comes to the
conclusion that the defendant is not entitled to leave to
defend the suit and, conversely, the plaintiff is entitled to a
judgment, still, the Court would be within its right in
impounding the instrument and directing the adjudication
and payment of the requisite stamp-duty with penalty, if any.
The compliance can be ensured by a direction that the
decree shall not be drawn and executed till the deficit stamp-
duty is adjudicated and paid. In none of the aforesaid
contingencies, where the Court impounds the instrument, it
can be said that the Court has acted upon the instrument
without ensuring the compliance of the statutory
requirement of payment of stamp-duty. 89. In contrast, if the consideration of the summons for
judgment and the question of grant of leave to defend a
summary suit is deferred till the question of stamp-duty is
finally adjudicated by the authorities under the Act, the 22/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

 object with which the summary procedure is envisaged may
 not be advanced." 28. It would be contextually relevant to note that with further

development in law, the potency of the defence based on

insufficiently stamped instrument is further eroded. Doubting

the correctness of the view in the case of Garware (supra), the

Supreme Court in the case of N. N. Global Mercantile Pvt. Ltd.

vs. Indo Unique Flame Ltd. and others 8 has referred the matter

to the Constitution Bench. The judgment of the Supreme Court

in the case of SMS Tea Estate (supra) was also held to be not

laying down the correct position in law. It was inter alia

observed that after the document is duly stamped it becomes

admissible and can very well be acted upon. 29. The observations in paragraphs 26 to 33 and 34 are

instructive and hence extracted below: 30. The aforesaid pronouncement, in my humble opinion,

fortifies the view which this Court was persuaded to take in the

case of SKIL Infrastructure (supra) and thus the course adopted

by this Court in the said case, can be legitimately adopted in

this case as well. 31. This takes me to the submission of Dr. Tuljapurkar that

since the plaintiff has not given up the security it is not entitled

to institute a summary suit under Order XXXVII of the Code.

Inviting the attention of the Court to the averments in

paragraphs 11 and 12 of the plaint wherein the plaintiff has

specifically averred that the facility advanced to defendant no.1

is also secured by a mortgage recorded by Memorandum of

Entry dated 27th January, 2016, and the plaintiff also craved

leave under Order II Rule 2 of the Code to omit to sue in the

capacity of mortgagee, Dr. Tuljapurkar would submit that the

plaintiff's claim that is has not claimed the relief which does not

fall within the ambit of Order XXXVII Rule 2 of the Code is not

sustainable. Since the plaintiff has obtained the leave under 25/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

Order II Rule 2, it is incumbent upon the plaintiff to give up the

security, submitted Dr. Tuljapurkar. 32. Dr. Saraf, per contra, urged that the aforesaid submission

is not in consonance with law. The plaintiff undoubtedly has

the remedy of instituting a suit based on martgage. However, it

does not imply that the plaintiff is precluded from instituting a

money claim based on written contract and balance

confirmation. Dr. Saraf further submitted that the issue sought

to be raised by the defendants is no longer res integra. This

Court has consistently held that the fact that loan is secured by

either pledge or mortgage does not operate as an impediment in

instituting summary suit under Order XXXVII of the Code. 33. In the case of Tata Capital Finance Services Limited vs.

Deccan Chronicle Holdings Limited9 , a learned Single Judge

explained the import of the provisions contained in Order

XXXIV Rule 14 of the Code in the following words: 34. Another learned Single Judge, in the case of Suraj Sanghi

Finance Ltd. vs. Credential Finance Ltd and others 10 expressly

repelled the submission that the plaintiff must give up the

security before instituting a summary suit based on the written

contract, where it is also secured by collateral securities. The

following observations of the Court make the position explicitly

clear: 35. Without disputing the aforesaid legal position, Dr.

Tuljapurkar attempted to salvage the position by asserting that,

at this stage, there is no material to indicate as to what is the

value of the security furnished by the defendants. According to

Dr. Tuljapurkar, in that view of the matter, the aspect of the

necessity of imposing conditions to grant leave to defend is

required to be considered keeping in view the fact that the loan

is already secured by mortgage. 36. This alternate submission, in my considered view, is of no

assistance to the defendants in advancing the cause of the

submission that the security must be given up before a

summary suit is instituted. The aspect of the existence of the

security may bear upon the conditions to be imposed, in the

event the Court comes to the conclusion that a conditional leave

to defend is required to be granted. But, on its own, the

existence of security does not constitute an impediment in

instituting a summary suit. 37. The upshot of the aforesaid consideration is that in the

facts of the case, the first contention of the defendants that the 28/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

plaintiff had advanced loan to defendant no.1 as a part of the

strategic arrangement cannot be said to be wholly untenable.

Indubitably, the plaintiff extended the facility of Rs.37 Crores to

the defendant no.1. The attendant circumstances, in which the

loan was advanced, however, cannot be lost sight of. Defendant

no.1's contention that the group entities to which the loans were

advanced as a part of "evergreeing" device, were non-operational

entities and, therefore, the aspect of the credit worthiness of the

debtor bears upon the entitlement of the plaintiff to recover the

outstanding, especially the interest component, warrants

consideration. I find substance in the submission of Dr.

Tuljapurkar that the defence based on the structured

arrangement cannot be completely brushed aside as a

moonshine defence. 38. However, the fact remains that there are clear and explicit

admissions of liability in the sum of Rs.37 Crores, in the

balance-sheet and the correspondence addressed on behalf of

defendant no.1, adverted to above. The case is, thus, covered by

proposition 17.6 of the judgment of the Supreme Court in the

case of IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited vs. Hubtown

Limited11 , which envisages that where any part of the amount

11(2017) 1 Supreme Court Cases 568. COMSS559-2019.DOC

claimed by the plaintiff is admitted by the defendants to be due

from him, leave to defend the suit, (even if triable issues or

substantial defence is raised), shall not be granted unless the

amount so admitted to be due is deposited by the defendants in

Court. 39. Dr. Tuljapurkar made a faint attempt to distinguish the

aforesaid proposition by putting forth a submission that it

applies only when the suit is based on admission of liability. I

am afraid to accede to this submission. In the case at hand, as

indicted above, there is ample material to demonstrate that the

defendants had availed the loan of Rs.37 Crores. 40. This leads me to the aspect of the conditions subject to

which the leave to defend is required to be granted. The

particulars of the claim reveal that as of 6th February, 2019 the

outstanding principal was Rs.31,40,25,314. The balance

amount, out of the total claim of Rs.49,58,07,715/- represents

the interest component, including a sum of Rs.1,96,70,532/-

towards delayed payment interest and additional security @ 2%

for document deficiency/creation of security as on 6 th February,

2019. The issue of entitlement of the plaintiff, to recover the

interest as claimed, is a matter which warrants consideration. 30/32 COMSS559-2019.DOC

In the circumstances of the case, in my considered view, it

would be appropriate to direct the defendants to deposit the

principal outstanding plus a sum of Rs.4 Crore towards the

interest as a condition for grant of the leave to defend the suit. 41. Hence, the following order: COMSS559-2019.DOC (v) The Prothonotary and Senior Master is directed to
 forward all the above impounded documents to the
 Superintendent of Stamps / Collector of Stamps,
 Mumbai for adjudication. Copy of the forwarding
 letter be sent to the Advocate for the plaintiff and the
 defendants. (vi) The Superintendent of Stamps / Collector of Stamps,
 Mumbai is directed to adjudicate the stamp-duty and
 penalty, if any, within six weeks from the date of the
 receipt of the impounded documents from the
 Prothonotary and Senior Master, High Court,
 Bombay. (vii) Upon adjudication, the Authority shall communicate
 the order to the Prothonotary and Senior Master with
 a copy to the Advocate for the Plaintiff and
 Defendants. (viii) The plaintiff shall pay the amount of stamp-duty
 along with penalty, if any, to be adjudicated within
 two weeks of receiving the copy of the order.

The Summons for Judgment stands disposed accordingly. [N. J. JAMADAR, J.] 32/32