The first appeal by the assessee has been directed

against the block assessment order dated 28th November, 1997,

passed by DCIT, Special Range-23, New Delhi, for the above

block period. 2. Briefly, the facts of the case are that pursuant to the

warrant of authorization, search under section 132 of the Act, 2 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. was conducted at the official premises of the assessee-company

on 21st November, 1996. Search was conducted in the premises

of the assessee-company as a sequel to the search conducted in

HDC Group of cases at Delhi, Calcutta, Bombay and Surat. The

assessee-company is an Investment Company and has income

from dividend, interest and from sale and purchase of shares.

2.1. Notice under section 158BC was issued and the

assessee-company filed return of income declaring NIL

undisclosed income. The A.O. issued questionnaire and called

for explanation of the assessee-company. The search and

subsequent enquiries conducted following the search operation

reveal that assessee-company being an Investment Company

and closely linked with the Mody Group of companies, has been

facilitating the ploughing back of undisclosed income of the

flagship company of Mody Group namely M/s. Hindustan

Development Corporation ("HDC"), in the garb of a speculation

profit through an arranged speculative share transactions

routed through a reliable stock broker of the flagship company.

Generally, this speculation profit is set-off against the interest 3 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. outgo, mainly to the flagship company. Subsequently, if there

remains a huge profit, it has been noticed that the company,

through the share-brokers of the Calcutta arrange some

speculation loss and offset a considerable amount of profit

against this loss. The perusal of the documents filed by

assessee-company at Annexure-XVIII shows that in F.Y. 1992-

93 (A.Y. 1993-94), the assessee-company earned profit of

Rs.2,68,92,000 in transaction through ANZ Grindlays Bank,

Calcutta. Subsequently, in the same year the company booked

loss of Rs.18,51,750, Rs.10,10,000, Rs.26,96,500 and

Rs.55,41,750 totalling to Rs.1,11,00,000 in four transactions

routed through a single broker M/s. Rahul and Company,

Calcutta. A similar pattern was followed in F.Y. 1993-94 (A.Y.

1994-95) whereby the company first earned a profit of

Rs.2,00,34,850 a large portion of which was set off by booking

a loss of Rs.83,18,750, all these transactions being again routed

through the same broker M/s. Rahul and Company, Calcutta.

Subsequently, enquiry showed that the transaction done 4 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. through ANZ Grindlays Bank was executed by the Bank

through the same broker M/s. Rahul and Company.

2.2. On perusal of the accounts of the assessee-company,

for different years shows that the investment made in the shares

of HDC are primarily out of loans and advances by HDC itself.

The interest payment to Banks/financial institutions/HDC are

substantially high on account of huge borrows. The main source

of income of the assessee-company is dividend income on

shares of HDC and profit in dealing of shares and securities.

The A.O. reproduced chart at page-3 of the assessment order

which would show how the excess of the interest payment to

HDC and others are adjusted against near equivalent arranged

profits, over and above the dividend and other source of income

which is also reproduced as under : IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. 2.3. The assessee-company was asked to explain the

same. The A.O. therefore, noted that such speculation profits

are arranged in collusion with various share brokers. This is

clear with the statements furnished by the share brokers, seized

documents from the O/o. HDC etc. The Post search

investigations and survey at the O/o. M/s. Rahul and

Company, share broker have revealed certain interesting

features which are discussed by the A.O. as under : back of cash against cheques issued by them. Mr. A. M.

Lodha, in his statement recorded u/s. 132(4) on 22.11.96

had admitted that, the several investment company of the

group, one of which is Promain Ltd., required a lot of book

entries from the market for adjustments and the term

"delivery profits", "Trading profits" referred to in the seized

document marked 53, 54, 55, & 73-76 of "HDC-14" referred

to book entries from the market for necessary adjustments.

Also, Mr. Lodha declined the opportunity to cross-examine

Sh. Shishir Kejriwal and Sh. Dinesh Kr. Singhania, who

under oath admitted of having arranged a speculation

profit in various group investment companies depending

upon the requirement, communicated by Sh. Lodha.

B. Though Mr. R.P. Mody and his son Sh. Vikram Aditya

Mody are neither the directors nor shareholders of the

concerned investment company, one of which is Promain

Limited, they are, however, the authorised signatories to

investment in these companies and the authorised

signatories in the bank accounts are not the directors or 7 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. secretaries of the concerned companies but Sh. A. M. Lodha

who is the key person arranging the profits in collusion with

the share brokers and determining the quantum of profits

required for necessary adjustments. Sh. R. P. Mody and Sh.

V. A. Mody though denied the ploughing of undisclosed

income in the group investment, companies in the garb of a

speculation profits, however, both declined the opportunity

to cross examine Sh. Shi Shishir Kejriwal and Sh. Dinesh

Kumar Singhania. This confirms the admission made by

these share brokers. C. Enquiries conducted following the search operations

revealed that, in the F.Y. 1992-93 the company had shown

profit from share deals at Rs.2,68,92,000/-. As against this

the total loss on account of share transaction was shown at

Rs.1, 11,00,000/-. It has also come to the notice that ANZ

Grindlays Bank on being asked by the relevant group

company on 10.4.92 transacted in one crore Cantriples held

under Certificate No.389759 through M/s. Rahul, and

Company, share broker of Calcutta. M/s. Rahul and 8 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. Company showed the purchase of the relevant Cantriples

from Standard "Chartered Bank, Bombay on 10.4.92 and

sale and delivery to Andhra Bank Financial Service Limited

(ABFSL), Bombay on 16.4.92, the purchase consideration of

15 crore was shown to have been paid by Canfina on behalf

of Rahul and Company. After the sale consideration of

Rs.25 crore was received by ANZ Grindlays Bank from

ABFSL 15 crore was repaid to Canfina and 10 crore of the

speculation profit was credited to the accounts of the

relevant group concern, one of which is our assessee

company, held with ANZ Grindlays Bank, Calcutta. The

subsequent enquiries made by the Department with Rahul

and Company, Canfina, Bangalore, Standard Chartered

Bank, Bombay and ANZ Grindlays Bank, Calcutta and

Bombay, ABFSL, Bombay and Canara Bank, Calcutta

revealed a palpable contradiction in the version put forth

before the department by the group concern. The

contradictions revealed consequent to investigation made

by the Department is as follows : cantriples certificate from Standard Chartered Bank,

Bombay and eventual sale and delivery to ABFSL. (iii) The regular books of account of Rahul and

company do not record the sale transaction of the

relevant, cantriples to ABFSL. (iv) The payment of Rs.15 crore made by Canfina to

Standard Chartered Bank, is reflected in the books of

Canfina towards purchase of units of UTI-64 Scheme. 10 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. The purchase on 10.4.92 was reversed on 16.4.92

and a sum of Rs.15,05,58,000/- received by Canfina.

by way of two separate cheques - 15 crore from ANZ

Grindlays Bank as directed by Rahul and Company to

ANZ Grindlays Bank and Rs.5,58,000/- from the

account of Rahul and Company with American

Express Bank. The entire transaction was on account

of units of UTI-64 and not the relevant cantriples.

While Rahul and Company claim that the relevant UTT

units were physically delivered to Canfina for ready

forward deals, Canfina has denied having physically

received UTT units or its delivery to Rahul and

company. (v) In the deal notes, the Standard Chartered Bank,

Bombay showed the purchase of relevant. Cantriples

by Canara Bank and not. Rahul and Company. (vi) The Standard Chartered Bank has shown the

purchase of relevant Cantriples from Citi Bank on

10.4.92, an hour before the sale to Canara Bank is 11 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. shown in the deal notes. The relevant, certificate No.

389759 was part, of an original certificate No.102233

of 5 crores cantriples held, by Citi Bank which

allegedly on a request made by Citi Bank was split up

by Canfina on 9.4.92 into five certificates of one crore

cantiples each including the relevant. Certificate No.

389759. The subsequent enquiries made by this

Department with Canfina, Bangalore have revealed

that, no request, was made by Citibank to Canfina for

splitting of the original Certificate on 9.4.92. The

register maintained by Canfina shows no evidence for

splitting of original certificate No. 102233 on 9.4.92 or

its delivery to Citi Bank on 9.4.92 or subsequently. (vii) The relevant cantriples have been finally

registered in the name of the Standard Chartered

Bank by canfina on 3.5.92. The Standard Chartered

Bank has not given any details of repurchase from

Hiten P. Dalai, or other intermediaries. This strongly 12 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. indicates that there has been no movement at all of the

 relevant cantriples. The entire transaction in view of the above
 mentioned findings shows that it was an arranged
 transaction and it is only the group investment
 companies, one of the which is M/s Promain Ltd.,
 which have benefit by receiving a speculation profit to
 the tune of Rs.10 crores." 2.4. The A.O. further noted that this speculation profits

are arranged depending upon requirement of the investment

company. This is done apparently to introduce the undisclosed

income of the flagship company in the garb of speculation

profits, sufficient to adjust the debit of interest payment.

Moreover, if the profit still remains, they are offset against the

arranged speculation loss. The post search enquiries have also

revealed that while ploughing back of undisclosed funds used

to be made available to the group investment company in the

garb of a speculation profits, it has also came to the notice that

corresponding losses also used to be arranged against the

accommodated profits. In A.Y. 1993-94, the assessee-company 13 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. has shown huge speculation profit allegedly made through ANZ

Grindlays Bank duly routed through M/s. Rahul and Company,

Calcutta. It has also shown huge loss of Rs.1.11 crores in the

transaction of share and securities made through M/s. Rahul

and Company, Calcutta. It may be noted here that in A.Y. 1994-

95, the company has again booked profit of Rs.2,00,34,850 and

loss of Rs.83,18,750, all deals made through M/s. Rahul and

Company, Calcutta. In order to verify the genuineness of the

transactions which resulted in speculation loss, the assessee-

company was asked to furnish enough evidence so as to prove

the genuineness of the transaction. The statement of Shri V.C.

Mehta, Company Secretary of the assessee-company was also

recorded and the gist of his statement is reproduced in the

assessment order in which he has explained that the company

does not have any relation with M/s. HDC Limited except that

it is a share holder of HDC Limited and have no business

transactions with them. The A.O. also noted that it has been

admitted by Shri V.C. Mehta in his statement recorded under section 131 of the Act that the decisions for investment on 14 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. behalf of this company are taken by the persons in Calcutta who

have close links with all the Mody group of Companies, one of

them is Mr. R.P. Mody, Chairman, M/s. Hindustan

Development Corporation, who is also an authorised signatory

of the assessee-company. 2.5. The A.O. further noted that it has been established

that assessee-company have received the undisclosed profit of

HDC group in the garb of arranged speculation profit, the

speculation loss that it had shown in A.Ys. 1993-94 and 1994-

95 against the speculation profit, which has also been received

through the same broker M/s. Rahul and Company of Calcutta.

The A.O. asked Mr. V.C. Mehta to produce copies of the Chopri

or match list of the broker M/s. Rahul and Company that

transactions resulting in loss are not sham transactions and he

was asked to produce copy of the relevant record of Kolkata

Stock Exchange to verify the transactions were routed through

Kolkata Stock Exchange. However, the information desired have

not been filed. The A.O. in the absence of above details noted

that it proved that assessee-company is acting as a conduit for 15 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. siphoning of the undisclosed profit of HDC group in the garb of

speculation profit. The A.O. relied upon the decision of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Mc. Dowell and Company

Ltd., 154 ITR 148. The A.O. in the absence of material brought

on record, found the entire transaction to be sham which

makes-out undisclosed income of the assessee-company for the

block period and disallowed the speculation loss suffered by

assessee-company in A.Ys. 1993-94 and 1994-95. The

conclusion of the A.O. is reproduced as under : IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. (iv) The speculation profit is, set-off against the
 interest outgo, mostly to the flagship company. (v) When it is realised that there remains huge
 surplus profit even after setting off the interest
 outgo which would result in high incidence of
 taxation, speculative losses are arranged
 through the reliable, broker who earns 0.5-1%
 commission for organising such deals. (vi) In this process the undisclosed income of the
 flagship company is first routed to the assessee
 company and then passed back to the flagship
 company in the legal garb of Interest on loans
 while at the same time ensuring that
 unnecessary high incidence of taxation is not
 suffered by the assessee company. 19. Therefore, if viewed and examined the above
mentioned facts in the light of the observations of
Supreme Court in the Mc. Dowells case, all intervening
steps need not be viewed in isolation. Each transaction
is closely interlinked and purported to serve one
objective - to avoid the incidence of tax on the assessee
company. The by product of all these devices adopted
by the assessee company is also to serve as a conduit 17 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. for recycling the undisclosed profit of the flagship
 company in an apparent legal garb. I am therefore, of the view that the speculation
 loss suffered/brought by the company in F. Y. 1992-93
 and 1993-94 from M/s Rahul and Company, the share
 broker is nothing but a sham transaction and it is
 therefore, disallowed. The assessee company
 deliberately failed to disclose profits of
 Rs.1,11,00,000/- in F. Y. 1992-93 and Rs.83,18,750/-
 in 1993-94 by artificially deflating the profit as
 discussed above. This amount of Rs.1,11,00,000/- and
 Rs.83,18,750/- totaling Rs.1,94,18,750/- are added
 as the undisclosed income of the assessee company for
 the block period." 2.6. The A.O. further noted that assessee-company along

with other 07 co-owners owns property No.6, Amrita Shergill

Marg, New Delhi. The assessee-company has 1/8th share in this

property. This property is an official residence of Mr. R.P. Mody,

Chairman of the HDC Limited. During the course of search at

HDC Group, certain papers were found which showed that huge

renovation work in this property was undertaken in A.Ys. 1996-

97 and 1997-98. In order to verify and ascertain the correct 18 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. amount of investment in the renovation of this property, the

matter was referred to the Valuation Cell of the Department.

The Valuation Officer submitted his report dated 26.11.1997 to

the A.O. of M/s. Paramount Enterprise, one of the co-owner of

this property. Before the Valuation Officer, various co-owner

Companies including the assessee-company have submitted

that they have invested Rs.20,31,861 up-to the date of search

in the renovation of this property. The Valuation Officer in his

report have stated that as per their estimate, renovation work

undertaken comes to Rs.25,56,735. Hence, there is a difference

of Rs.5,24,897, 1/8th of the same comes to Rs.65,609. The

assessee did not file any reply. The A.O. accordingly, made

addition of Rs.65,609. The A.O. accordingly, computed the

undisclosed income of assessee-company at Rs.1,94,89,359 in

the block assessment order under section 158BC of the I.T. Act

dated 28.11.1997. 2.7. The assessee-company challenged the block

assessment order before ITAT in IT (SS) A.No.325 of 1997 which

was earlier decided by ITAT, Delhi-B Bench, vide order dated 19 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. 23rd June, 2006. The assessee-company insisted for production

of the search warrant by submitting that there was no

authorization of search against the assessee-company and

challenged the validity of the search. The Tribunal noted that

despite directions by the Bench, the department has not been

able to produce any authorization for conducting search

specially in the name of the assessee-company. Therefore,

adverse inference was drawn and it was held that there were no

warrant of authorisation in the name of the assessee-company,

therefore, block assessment was held to be invalid and quashed.

The assessee-company also challenged the block assessment

order on the ground that no undisclosed income has been

earned by the assessee-company and that computation of

undisclosed income has not been made on the basis of material

found during the course of search. The Tribunal noted that the

copies of the seized documents are filed at pages 215 to 222 of

the paper book, entries do not pertain to the assessee-company.

Therefore, no addition could be made against the assessee-

company. It was also held that undisclosed income as 20 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. determined by the A.O. for A.Ys. 1993-94 and 1994-95 is based

on post-search enquiry and not on the basis of the material

found during the course of search or evidence related there to.

Therefore, addition on merit was also deleted. As regards the

addition made on account of difference in the valuation of

investment in property, the addition was deleted because it was

not based on any material. The appeal of assessee-company was

accordingly, allowed. 3. The Revenue preferred appeal against the order of the

Tribunal dated 23rd June, 2006 before Hon'ble Delhi High Court

in ITA.No.308 of 2007 which was decided vide judgment dated

30th April, 2012. The Revenue Department produced the

warrant of authorisation before Hon'ble High Court which was

in the name of the assessee-company. Therefore, finding of the

Tribunal was found contrary to the original warrant. Therefore,

this issue were decided against the assessee-company. As

regards the second question regarding addition deleted on

merit, the order of the Tribunal was set aside and matter in

issue was remanded to the Tribunal and Tribunal was directed 21 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. to deal with the factual findings recorded by the A.O. and then

after examining the documents, evidence on record, record their

factual conclusion. It was also directed that the applicability of

provisions of the Act, have also to be examined. The Hon'ble

High Court clarified that they have not expressed any opinion

on the merits of the matter. It will be open to the Tribunal to

examine the issue on merits without being influenced by the

order of the High Court. In view of the directions of the Hon'ble

High Court, the appeal of the assessee-company was re-fixed for

hearing on merits. 4. The Learned Counsel for the Assessee submitted that

assessee-company in the present appeal has challenged the

additions of Rs.1.11 crores and Rs.83,18,750 on account of

disallowance of speculation loss and addition of Rs.65,609 on

account of investment in renovation. Learned Counsel for the

Assessee reiterated the submission made before the A.O. He

submitted that the disallowance of the loss arisen as a result of

sale and purchase of shares, which cannot be regarded to be in

the nature of undisclosed income, as admittedly no 22 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. incriminating material of any nature has been found during the

course of search so as to make addition under Chapter-XIVB of

the I.T. Act, 1961 . He has submitted that it is settled Law that

the purport of block assessment under Chapter-XIVB of the I.T.

Act , is not intended to be the substitute for regular assessment.

Its scope and ambit is limited to the incriminating materials

found during the course of search. It is, in addition to the

regular assessment already done or to be done. The assessment

for block period can only be done on the basis of the

incriminating evidence found as a result of search or requisition

of the books of account or documents and as such material or

information as are available with the A.O. The evidence found

as a result of search is clearly relatable in Section 132 and 132A of the I.T. Act. He has relied upon the decision of the Delhi High

Court in the case of CIT vs. Ravi Kant Jain 250 ITR 141 and

also relied upon the following decisions in support of the above

legal proposition. ( i) CIT vs. Pooja Forge Ltd. , 389 ITR 382 ( ii) CIT vs. Balaji Wire (P .) Ltd., 304 ITR 393 (Del.) 23 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. ( iii) CIT vs. Jupiter Builders (P) Ltd. , 287 ITR 287 (Del.) ( iv) CIT vs. Vishal Aggarwal 283 ITR 326 (Del.) ( v) CIT vs. Bluechip Construction Co. (P .) Ltd., 213
 CTR 530 (Del.). ( vi) CIT vs. V.B. Aggaarwal 296 ITR 750 (Del.)

4.1. The Learned Counsel for the Assessee further

submitted that the documents found during the course of

search were admittedly found from the premises of HDC, copies

of which, are filed at pages 215 to 222 of the PB and submitted

that these documents were never confronted to the assessee-

company. None of these documents could establish that either

it pertain to the assessee-company or were made the basis for

making disallowance as no disallowance were made on the basis

of these documents. The subject matter of disallowance of loss

arising in A.Ys. 1993-94 and 1994-95 for an aggregate sum of

Rs.1,94,18,750 were disclosed in the books of account for the

relevant assessment years and were accepted in the order of

assessments framed under section 143(3) on 25.01.1995 and

28.11.1995 which assessments were framed much prior to the 24 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. date of search i.e., 21.11.1996 and hence, could not be regarded

by any stretch of imagination as undisclosed income within the

meaning of Section 158BB of the Act. Copies of the assessment

orders are filed at pages 21 and 22 and 40 and 42 of the Paper

Book. Computation of income and copies of the returns of these

years are also filed in the paper book to show that speculation

loss have already been disclosed and accepted by the Revenue

Department prior to the search. The copies of the replies are

also filed which were filed before A.O. on the subject matter. The

Learned Counsel for the Assessee submitted that A.O. was

satisfied with the explanation of the assessee-company at the

original assessment proceedings and after verifying the records

and books of account, the claim of assessee-company has been

accepted. The A.O. accepted the genuine loss suffered by the

assessee-company. He has submitted that assessee-company is

a Public Limited Company. The A.O. accepted the profit from

the same broker M/s. Rahul and Company, Calcutta. The

assessee-company is only shareholder of HDC. The loss suffered

by the assessee-company thus, could not be treated as 25 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. undisclosed income of the assessee-company. The copies of the

order sheets and replies of the assessee-company are filed in

the paper book. No material was found in search with regard to

the speculation loss suffered by assessee-company and no

query was raised by the A.O. The A.O. misunderstood the

provisions of block assessment because the addition could be

made only on the basis of the evidence found as a result of

search or requisition of the books of account or other

documents and such material or information as are available to

the A.O. relatable to search material. He has submitted that it

is well settled Law that material gathered as a result of post-

search proceedings could not be gone into so as to make any

addition under block assessment and relied upon decision of

the Tribunal in the case of Sunder Agencies vs. DCIT 63 ITD 245. He has further submitted that the statements recorded by

ADIT which are dated 21st January, 1997, under sections 131

(1A) and 133 of the Act, as well as statements recorded on 26th

January, 1997 are as a result of again post-search enquiry.

Hence, could not even be looked into as admittedly no 26 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. incriminating material/ evidence was found from the premises

of the assessee-company during search. He has submitted that

statements of the two persons namely Shri Sishir Kejriwal and

Shri Dinesh Kumar Singhania were never confronted to the

assessee-company. Therefore, the same cannot be read in

evidence against the assessee-company and relied upon the

decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of

Kishanchand Chellaram 125 ITR 713 (SC). He has further

submitted that both these persons retracted from their

statements by filing affidavits before ADIT. Copies of the same

are also filed in the paper book. The statements of Shri V.C.

Mehta was recorded on 26.11.1997 after search which was not

recorded under section 132(4) of the I.T. Act. He has relied upon

the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT

vs. Harjeet Agarwal 241 Taxman 199 (Del.) (HC) wherein it has

been held that statements recorded during search and seizure

operation are not evidence found as a result of search. However,

it was held that statements recorded would certainly constitute

information and if such information is relatable to the evidence 27 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. or material found during the course of search, the same could

certainly be used as evidence in any proceedings under the Act

as expressly mandated by virtue of the Explanation to Section

132(4) of the I.T. Act, 1961. However, such statement on a

standalone basis without reference to any other material

discovered during the search and seizure operation could not

empower the A.O. to make block assessment merely because

any admission made by the assessee-company during search

operation. He has also relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble

Delhi High Court in the case of Pr. CIT vs. Meeta Gutgutia 395

ITR 526 (Del.) in which distinction has been drawn between the

statement recorded Under Section 132(4) and Section

133A(3)(iii) of the I.T. Act. He has submitted that none of the

above persons even in their statements have made any

allegations against the assessee-company of taking any

speculation loss. No corroborative evidence has been brought

on record. Copies of the affidavits of all the persons retracting

from earlier statements are filed in the paper book. He has

further submitted that in the block assessment no addition can 28 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. be made on the basis of valuation report submitted by the DVO.

Learned Counsel for the Assessee, therefore, submitted that all

the additions are wholly unjustified and could not be made in

the block assessment. 5. On the other hand, Ld. D.R. relied upon the order of

the A.O. and referred to the assessment order in detail to

highlight the modus operandi of the assessee-company and its

flagship company as to how the profits have been syphoned in

the garb of speculation loss. The Ld. D.R. submitted that the

tax provisions have to be strictly construed. There are material

found during the course of search to justify the additions made

by the A.O. The Ld. D.R. submitted that undisclosed income of

HDC have been syphoned through the assessee-company by

obtaining bogus speculation loss. Both the losses are routed

through M/s. Rahul and Company, Broker, Calcutta. The total

profits are set-off against the interest income. The Ld. D.R.

referred to copies of the seized documents which are filed at

pages 215 to 222 of the Paper Book. The Ld. D.R. submitted

that assessee-company is conduit to book losses which are 29 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. supported by statements of Shri Shishir Kejriwal, Shri Dinesh

Kumar Singhania, and Shri V.C. Mehta. Shri R.P. Mody is

connected with the HDC group as well as the assessee-

company. Therefore, there is a nexus between the flagship

company and the assessee-company. The A.O. made

independent enquires as to how profits/losses have been

arrived at. The assessee-company is connected with Shri Hiten

P. Dalal, Share Broker, involved in security scam. No evidence

has been brought as to how the assessee-company has

genuinely suffered losses. The A.O. confronted all the material

to the assessee-company at assessment stage. The assessee-

company however, did not produce any material to explain the

seized material. The Ld. D.R. relied upon Section 114 of the

Evidence Act. The Ld. D.R. submitted that onus was upon the

assessee-company to prove the genuine losses suffered by it.

However, nothing has been done by the assessee-company.

Therefore, onus have not been discharged by the assessee-

company. Therefore, addition is correctly made. The Ld. D.R.

filed written submissions also highlighting the facts noted by 30 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. the A.O. in the assessment order. The Ld. D.R. relied upon the

decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of H.H.

Laxmi Bai vs. CWT 206 ITR 688 on the proposition that tax

statute has to be strictly construed. There is no equity in the

taxing provisions, the decision of Delhi High Court in the case

of Bhagirath Aggarwal (2013) 351 ITR 143 (Del.) in which it was

held that "an addition in assessee's income relying on

statements recorded during search operation cannot be deleted

without proving statements to be incorrect", the Order of ITAT,

Ahmedabad Bench in the case of Manharlal Kasturchand

Chokshi vs. ACIT 61 ITD 55 in which it was held that "admission

by the party is a best evidence on a point in issue and though not

conclusive, is decisive of the matter unless specifically

withdrawn or proved erroneous", Order of ITAT, Bangalore

Bench in the case of Carpenters Classic (Exim) Pvt. Ltd., vs.

DCIT 108 ITD 142 in which it was held that "assessee had not

retracted disclosure before Authorised Officer and there was a

time gap in retraction. Therefore, undisclosed income was

correctly determined". The Ld. D.R. submitted that she has filed 31 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. the statement of Shri Abhoymal Lodha dated 03.03.1997, while

recording the retraction statement, he was offered to cross-

examine Shri Dinesh Kumar Singhania, but assessee did not

want to cross-examine Shri Dinesh Kumar Singhania. 6. We have considered the rival contentions and

perused the material on record. Before proceeding to decide the

additions on merit, it would be relevant to reproduce the

relevant provisions of Chapter-XIVB of the I.T. Act for

computing the income for block period. 6.1. Chapter XIV-B starts with Section 158B and provides

the definition of "block period" and "undisclosed income". Section 158BB(1) provides for computation of undisclosed

income of the block period and is reproduced as under: previous years falling within the block period
 computed, in accordance with the provisions of
 this Act, on the basis of evidence found as a result
 of search or requisition of books of account or
 other documents and such other materials or
 information as are available with the AO and
 relatable to such evidence as reduced by the
 aggregate of the total income, or as the case may
 be, as increased by the aggregate of the losses of
 such previous years, determined,- (a) where assessments u/s 143 or sec. 144 or sec.
 147 have been concluded [prior to the date of
 commencement of the search or the date of
 requisition], on the basis of such assessments; (b) where returns of income have been filed u/s 139 [or in response to a notice issued under sub-
 section (1) of sec. 142 or section 148 ] but
 assessments have not been made till the date of
 search or requisition, on the basis of the income
 disclosed in such returns; (c) where the due date for filing a return of income
 has expired, but no return of income has been
 filed, - IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. (A) on the basis of entries as recorded in the
books of account and other documents
maintained in the normal course on or before the
date of the search or requisition where such
entries result in computation of loss for any
previous year falling in the block period; or

(B) On the basis of entries as recorded in the
books of account and other documents
maintained in the normal course on or before the
date of the search or requisition where such
income does not exceed the maximum amount not
chargeable to tax for any previous year falling in
the block period; (ca) where the due date for filing a return of
income has expired, but no return of income has
been filed, as nil, in cases not falling under clause (c);] (d) where the previous year has not ended or the
 date of filing the return of income under sub-
 section (1) of sec. 139 has not expired, on the
 basis of entries relating to such income or
 transactions as recorded in the books of
 account and other documents maintained in
 the normal course on or before the date of the
 search or requisition relating to such previous
 years; IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. (e) where any order of settlement has been made
 under sub-section(4) of sec. 245D , on the basis
 of such order; (f) where an assessment of undisclosed income
 had been made earlier under clause (c) of sec.
 158BC , on the basis of such assessment. Explanation - For the purpose of determination of
undisclosed income, - (a) the total income or loss of each previous year
 shall, for the purpose of aggregation, be
 taken as the total income or loss computed in
 accordance with the provisions of [this Act]
 without giving effect to set off of brought
 forward losses under Chapter VI or
 unabsorbed depreciation under subsection
 (2) of section 32 ; [provided that in computing deductions under
 Chapter VI-A for the purposes of the said
 aggregation, effect shall be given to set off of
 brought forward losses under Chapter VI or
 unabsorbed depreciation under sub-section (2) of sec. 32 ;] (b) of a firm, returned income and total income
 assessed for each of the previous years 36 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. falling within the block period shall be the
 income determined before allowing deduction
 of salary, interest, commission, bonus or
 remuneration by whatever name called [to
 any partner not being a working partner]; Provided that undisclosed income of the firm so
 determined shall not be chargeable to tax in the
 hands of the partners, whether on allocation or
 on account of enhancement;] (c) assessment under section 143 includes
 determination of income under sub-section (1) or
 sub-section (1B) of sec. 143 . (2) In computing the undisclosed income of the block
period, the provisions of sections 68 , 69 , 69A , 69B and 69C shall, so far as may be, apply and references to "financial
year" in those sections shall be construed as references to
the relevant previous year falling in the block period
including the previous year ending with the date of search
or of the requisition. (3) The burden of proving to the satisfaction of the AO
that any undisclosed income had already been disclosed in
any return of income filed by the assessee before the
commencement of search or the requisition, as the case may
be, shall be on the assessee. IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. (4) For the purpose of assessment under this Chapter,
 losses brought forward from the previous year under
 Chapter VI or unabsorbed depreciation under sub-section
 (2) of section 32 shall not be set off against the undisclosed
 income determined in the block assessment under this
 Chapter, but may be carried forward for being set off in the
 regular assessments. " 6.4. The Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of

Bhagwati Pd. Kedia CIT, 248 ITR 562 (Cal.) observed - 6.5. In case of CIT vs. Ravi Kant Jain , 250 ITR 141 (Del.),

the Hon'ble Delhi High Court observed: 6.6. In the case of Sunder Agencies vs. DCIT , 63 ITD 245,

ITAT, Mumbai Bench 'B' held as under : IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. 6.7. In the case of Digvijay Chemical Ltd. vs. ACIT , 68 TTJ

280, ITAT, Delhi Bench "E" held that "addition based on

suspicion and surmises are not covered u/s 158B(b) . It was

further held that "the addition u/s 158B(b) must be made on

concrete material." 6.8. In the case of P.K. Ganeshwar vs. DCIT , 80 ITD 429

(Chennai), ITAT, Chennai Bench "C" held - IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. 6.9. Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of CIT vs. Ashim

Krishna Mondal , 270 ITR 160 at pages 163 and 164 observed: 6.10. ITAT, Delhi Bench (TM) in the case of Dang & Co. Pvt.

Ltd. vs. DCIT, 277 ITR (AT) 190 held : 6.11. Hon'ble Madras High Court in the case of CIT vs. G.K.

Senniappan , 284 ITR 220 held : IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. 10. Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT vs.

 Girish Chaudhary , 163 Taxman 608 in the head-note

 held "Under chapter XIVB, before an addition of an

 undisclosed income can be made, the AO has to bring on

 record the material to show that on evidence found as a

 result of search, there is an undisclosed income

 represented by credits appearing in the books of

 account. In the instant case, there was no material on

 record to show as to what on basis the AO reached the

 conclusion that the figure "48" was to be read as Rs.48

 lakhs. The document recovered during the course of

 search in the instant case was a dumb document. Thus,

 the Tribunal rightly deleted the addition made by AO on

 account of undisclosed income on the basis of seized

 material." 6.12. The Hon'ble M.P. High Court in the case of CIT vs.

Khushal Chand Nirmal Kumar 263 ITR 352 (MP) held that

investment in construction, the addition cannot be made on the

basis of the Departmental Valuation Report obtained 50 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. subsequent to order of regular assessment. The Tribunal

finding no evidence during search to establish assessee spent

more in renovating of residential house then recorded in the

books of account. The addition deleted, justified. 7. The A.O. considered the issue of speculation losses

in detail in the assessment order and observed that subsequent

to the search enquiries, it was found that assessee being

Investment Company is closely linked with the Mody group of

Companies and has been facilitating the ploughing back of

undisclosed income of the flagship Company of Mody group of

Companies namely HDC in the garb of speculation profit

through an arranged speculative share transactions routed

through a reliable Stock Broker of the flagship Company. The

A.O. ultimately after considering the modus operandi and on

perusal of the material on record, came to the finding that

speculation losses suffered by the assessee-company in A.Ys.

1993-94 and 1994-95 from M/s. Rahul and Company, Share

Broker is nothing but a sham transaction. Therefore, total

speculation losses in both the years in a sum of Rs.1,94,18,750 51 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. was disallowed by considering it to be undisclosed income of the

assessee-company. The Learned Counsel for the Assessee, has

however referred to various documents in the paper book which

are copies of the computation of income, P & L A/c, annual

reports and accounts of both the years in question which were

filed with the original return of income. In all the details filed

with the original return of income, assessee-company has

clearly disclosed as to how the assessee-company has earned

profit while dealing in shares and securities and on earning the

profits in some items, the assessee-company suffered losses

also. The assessments for both the years were subjected to

scrutiny assessment and the A.O. issued questionnaire to the

assessee-company which were duly replied and the A.O. on

examination of the books of account and material on record,

accepted the genuineness of the speculation losses suffered by

assessee-company in both the assessment years. The

assessments for A.Ys. 1993-94 and 1994-95 were accordingly

framed under section 143(3) on 25.01.1995 and 28.11.1995.

Copies of all the material filed before A.O. at the original 52 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. assessment stage and assessment order are filed in the paper

book. It therefore, clearly revealed that assessee-company

disclosed the incurring of the speculation losses in both the

years to the Revenue Department, prior to the date of search

and in the scrutiny assessment, the same speculation losses

have been accepted by the Revenue Department which is also

prior to the date of search. Therefore, there is no question of

considering it to be the undisclosed income as per Chapter-

XIVB of the I.T. Act and there is nothing on record which proved

that assessee-company has not been or would not have been

disclosed the speculation losses for the purpose of this Act.

Therefore, the primary condition of Chapter-XIVB of the I.T. Act have not been satisfied in this case. The copies of the seized

documents are filed at pages 215 to 222 of the paper book which

are having the dates of year of 1996 and did not reveal if

assessee-company has received any speculation loss from any

broker. Therefore, the entries contained in seized paper do not

pertain to the assessee-company and thus, the contents of

these documents cannot be used against the assessee- 53 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. company. The A.O. made addition by disallowing speculation

losses in A.Ys. 1993-94 and 1994-95 whereas the seized paper

pertain to the year 1996, there is no question of considering it

to be sham transaction in prior A.Ys. 1993-94 and 1994-95.

These seized paper are not found from possession of assessee-

company. The A.O. merely inferred from the documents that

since Group Companies were indulged in syphoning the profits,

therefore, assessee-company might have also indulged in taking

the speculation losses. The assessee-company explained that

HDC is not a flagship Company because assessee-company is

merely a share holder. Shri V.C. Mehta also in his statement

explained that assessee-company has no relation with M/s.

HDC Limited except that it is a shareholder of M/s. HDC

Limited. Therefore, on mere presumption such an addition

could not be made in the block period. It may also be noted that

the A.O. heavily relied upon the statements of Shri Shishir

Kejriwal, Shri Dinesh Kumar Singhania and Shri V.C. Mehta

which have not been recorded in search proceedings under section 132(4) of the I.T. Act. These statements have been 54 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. recorded either under section 131 of the I.T. Act or under section 133A of the I.T. Act i.e., after post-search at assessment

stage or in survey proceedings on dated 20.01.1997,

26.02.1997, 26.11.1997. The statement of Shri A.M. Lodha was

recorded on 21.11.1996 under section 132 of the Act and he

has been shown the seized paper to which he explained that

these are some proposed entries to be taken from the market

but there is no reference to the assessee-company. Learned

Counsel for the Assessee, therefore, rightly contended that their

statements cannot be read in evidence against the assessee-

company because no evidence has been brought on record to

have any connection with the statements of these persons.

Learned Counsel for the Assessee has also rightly highlighted

that there is a distinction between the statements recorded

under section 132(4) of the I.T. Act and under sections 131 or

133 A of the I.T. Act , because the statements recorded under sections 131 and 133A of the I.T. Act, may not be relevant in

block period unless these are relatable to material found during

the course of search against the assessee-company. Since there 55 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. is no reference to the assessee-company in any of the seized

documents, therefore, there is no question of relying upon

statements of these persons which are not based on any search

material found during the course of search. The statement

recorded under section 132(4) of the Act, can be used in

evidence of making block assessment order only if the said

statement is made in the context of other evidence or material

discovered during the search. The statement of a person, which

is not relatable to any incriminating document or material

found during the course of search and seizure operation cannot,

by itself initiate the block assessment. The undisclosed income

of the assessee-company has to be computed on the basis of the

evidence and material found during search. The statements

recorded under section 132(4) of the Act, may also be used for

making the assessment, but only to the extent it is relatable to

the incriminating evidence/material unearthed or found during

the course of search. In otherwords, there must be a nexus

between the statement recorded and evidence/material found

during the course of search in order to for an assessment to be 56 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. based on the statement recorded. Since no incriminating

material/evidence was found during the course of search so as

to disallow speculation losses, the statements of other persons

recorded above by the A.O. and referred in the assessment order

would not be used for making an addition because the same are

not relatable to any evidence found during the course of search.

Learned Counsel for the Assessee, therefore, rightly relied upon

the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Harjeev Aggarwal (supra). It may also be noted here that nothing

is brought on record, whether the A.O. at the assessment stage

has allowed cross-examination to such statements on behalf of

the assessee-company. Therefore, such statements have

otherwise been cannot be read in evidence against the assessee-

company. It is also brought on record that ultimately the

persons who made the statements after the search have

retracted from their statements by filing affidavits and their

statements have been recorded thereafter. But A.O. did not

discuss anything on this aspect in the assessment order.

Therefore, on totality of the facts and circumstances of the case 57 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. would clearly reveal that there were nothing on record to

disallow the speculation losses suffered by assessee-company

in block assessment because it was accepted by the Revenue

Department in scrutiny assessments prior to the date of search.

The decisions relied upon by Ld. D.R. would not support the

case of the Revenue. Considering the totality of the facts and

circumstances of the case, it is clear that assessee-company did

not earn any undisclosed income on account of the speculation

losses in block assessment under Chapter-XIVB of the I.T. Act,

1961 . Therefore, the A.O. was not justified in making the

additions of Rs.1,11,00,000 and Rs.83,18,750 totaling to

Rs.1,94,18,750. The entire addition, therefore, stands deleted. 8. As regards addition of Rs.65,609 on account of

difference in valuation as reported by the assessee-company

and computed by the Valuation Officer, it is clear that no

incriminating material or evidence was found during the course

of search so as to indicate any unaccounted investment in the

property. The reference to the DVO was made after the search

which could not be construed as incriminating material or 58 IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. document found during the course of search. Therefore, such

addition also could not be made in the block assessment. The

addition of Rs.65,609 is accordingly, deleted. 9. With the above conclusion and reasonings, we set

aside the block assessment order and delete the entire

additions. 10. In the result, appeal of assessee is allowed. Order pronounced in the open Court. IT(SS)A.No.325/Del./1997 M/s. Promain Limited
 New Delhi. //By Order //

Asst. Registrar, ITAT, Delhi Benches
 Delhi.