1. Defendants No.1 and 2 are hereby 
 restrained from taking step from 
 

 encashing bank guarantee 
 No.OBC/CHP/BG/02020002808 dtd.19.2.08 
 for Rs.69,79,000/- valid upto 19.11.11 
 and bank guarantee 

 No.OBC/CHP/BG/02020002908 dtd.19.2.08 
 for Rs.1, 94,580/- valid upto 19.11.11 
 towards additional performance security 
 till their appearance and filing reply 
 to the application at exh.5. 2. Defendant No.3 and its employee etc. 
 are hereby restrained from making any 
 payment to defendant Nos.1 and 2 as per 
 above described bank guarantee till its 
 appearance and filing reply to the 
 application exh.5. 2. Issue notices to defendants No.1 to 

 .....7/- 0609ao85.11.odt 7 3 as to why above ex-parte ad-interim 
 injunction should not be confirmed till 

 
 the decision of suit on P.F. r/o 
 8.3.11. 3. Plaintiff is directed to comply 

 
 mandatory provision of O.39 R.3(a)(b) 
 of Civil Procedure Code within 
 stipulated period of 24 hours. 4. Steno copy be provided to the party. Nagpur (S.S.Deodhar)
 
 Date : 21.2.2011 3rd Jt.C.J.Sr.Dn., Nagpur. The Trial Court by an order impugned passed 

 on 5.4.2011, confirmed the exparte injunction granted 
 

 and continued the same, pending the decision of the 
 

 suit. The appellants are restrained from invoking the 

 Bank Guarantees and the defendant no.3 (respondent 

 no.2 Bank) is restrained from making payment of Bank 

 Guarantees. The Trial Court has held that the copies 

 of two Bank Guarantees of Nationalized Bank, viz; the 

 Oriental Bank of Commerce, issued on 19.2.2008, are 

 placed on record and the same are valid upto 

 19.11.2011. Out of these two Bank Guarantees, one is 

 for an amount of Rs.1,54,94,580/-, which was valid 

 .....8/- 0609ao85.11.odt 8 upto 19.11.2011 and the other is for an amount of 

 
 Rs.69,79,000/-, which was valid upto Rs.19.5.2009. The letters dated 27.4.2009 and 28.4.2009, issued by 

 
 the appellants/defendant nos.1 and 2 show that the 

 Bank Guarantees are accepted and the respondent no.1 

 has extended its validity upto 19.11.2011. 06)
 
 The finding is recorded by the Trial Court 

 that the invocation was on the ground of submission 
 
 of fake Bank Guarantees of non existent Bank and not 

 on the ground of delay in completion of the work. It 
 

 is held that the case of the plaintiff is that the 
 

 said act was done by his Power of Attorney holder and 

 when the plaintiff came to know that the said Bank 

 Guarantees are not in order, he voluntarily replaced 

 the same and submitted the fresh Bank Guarantees 

 issued by the Oriental Bank of Commerce (the 

 respondent no.2), a Nationalized Bank, which are 

 accepted by the appellants along with the extensions 

 of their validity period. It has further been held 

 that at this stage, it cannot be said that the fake 

 .....9/- 0609ao85.11.odt 9 Bank Guarantees were furnished only with a view to 

 
 obtain the work. The appellants have recovered the 

 penal interest on account of submission of fake Bank 

 
 Guarantees for a period of five months and criminal 

 investigation will take its own course. 07) The Trial Court has further held that the 
 
 appellants/defendant nos.1 and 2 are required to show 

 that they are entitled to recover the security amount 
 
 from the respondent no.1/plaintiff because of the 

 failure to execute the contract or negligence on the 
 

 part of the plaintiffs in executing the same, 
 

 however, no such case has been made out. The Trial 

 Court has recorded a finding that the respondent 

 no.1/plaintiff has prima-facie shown that there is no 

 fault on his part, in delay caused in completion of 

 the work and it is the appellants/defendant nos.1 and 

 2 and the State Government, who were unable to remove 

 the hindrances, as a result of which the respondent 

 no.1/plaintiff could not execute the work. The Trial 

 Court has, therefore, held that there is no question 

 .....10/- 0609ao85.11.odt 10 of recovery of any damages from the security deposit 

 
 in respect of which the Bank Guarantees were provided 

 and hence, the refusal to grant an injunction would 

 
 result in frustrating the claim of the plaintiffs. Hence, the order has been passed. 08) From the pleadings of the parties, the 
 
 finding recorded by the Trial Court and the arguments 

 advanced before this Court, the undisputed factual 
 
 position needs to be culled out. The respondent no.1 

 has completed 40% of work to the tune of 
 

 Rs.5,95,96,000/- upto 28.10.2008. The invocation of 
 

 the Bank Guarantees in question is not on the ground 

 that the respondent no.1 has failed to complete 60% 

 of work, costing of Rs.799.86 Lacs, upto 28.10.2008. It is the specific stand of the appellants in their 

 written statement that non-completion of balance 60% 

 of work by the respondent no.1 upto 28.10.2008, is 

 totally irrelevant for the purposes of the 

 controversy involved in the present case. The Bank 

 Guarantees have been invoked only for the reason that 

 .....11/- 0609ao85.11.odt 11 the respondent no.1 has submitted fake Bank 

 
 Guarantees for total amount of Rs.2,24,73,580/- from 

 the non existent of M/s.Mahesh Merchant Bank Limited, 

 
 Chandrapur. 09) It is also not in dispute that on account of 

 
 loss of interest for submission of fake Bank 
 
 Guarantees on 10.10.2007 to 19.10.2008 i.e. for a 

 period of five months, the appellants have recovered 
 
 the amount of penal interest of Rs.16,85,220/- @ of 

 18% per annum on total amount of Bank 
 

 Guarantees Rs.2,24,73,580/-. It is also not in 
 

 dispute that the offences are registered against the 

 respondent no.1 and others under Section 420, 468, 

 469, 470, 471 read with Section 34 of the Indian 

 Penal Code and the prosecution is in progress. 10) The Trial Court has recorded the finding 

 that on the basis of the report of the Committee 

 appointed by the appellants for removal of hindrances 

 and the finding is recorded about the failure of the 

 .....12/- 0609ao85.11.odt 12 appellants to discharge their obligations in respect 

 
 of (i) the forest land clearance for execution of the 

 work, (ii) the problems of villages of Ketadi and 

 
 Mashala have not been resolved, (iii) the P.W.D. 

 State Highway Road Bridge of Chandrapur Tadoba Road, 

 Near Padmapur Village is not completed, (iv) the 

 
 M.S.E.B. Bridge near Ketadi Village and also pipeline 
 
 works (Qty.81000 m3 approx)is not yet completed. It 

 has further recorded the finding that the Committee 
 
 appointed by the appellants has reported that it is 

 unlikely that the State Government authorities will 
 

 resolve the issue and allow to restart the work in 
 

 near future. It is also the finding that the 

 appellants and the State Government are unable to 

 remove the hindrances. All these findings recorded by 

 the Trial Court, have not been assailed in this 

 appeal. 11) Shri A.M.Gordey, the learned Senior Counsel, 

 has invited my attention to the preamble of the Bank 

 Guarantees to urge that it is unconditional and 

 .....13/- 0609ao85.11.odt 13 payable without any demur by the respondent no.2 

 
 Bank. He has also invited my attention to the 

 Condition No.1 under the Bank Guarantee, which states 

 
 that the Bank has agreed that the appellant Company 

 shall be the sole judge as to whether the respondent 

 no.1 has failed/neglected in performing any of the 

 
 terms and conditions of the said contract and the 
 
 decision of the appellant Company is made final and 

 binding upon the parties. He further submits that the 
 
 appellant, in whose favour the Bank Guarantees are 

 furnished by the respondent no.2 Bank, cannot be 
 

 prevented by way of an injunction, to enforce the 
 

 Bank Guarantees on the pretext that the conditions of 

 the agreement entered between the appellant and the 

 respondent no.1 have not been fulfilled. He submits 

 that the respondent no.1 Company cannot be the 

 aggrieved person having any locus to raise any 

 dispute in respect of non-fulfillment of the terms of 

 the Bank Guarantees. He further submits that any 

 dispute in respect of failure/negligence in 

 performing the terms and conditions of contract 

 .....14/- 0609ao85.11.odt 14 between the appellant beneficiary and the respondent 

 
 no.1 Company is immaterial and of no consequence. 12) In support of the proposition, Shri 

 A.M.Gordey, the learned Senior Counsel, has relied 

 upon the following decisions -- ( i)Himadri Chemicals Industries Limited Vs. 
 Coal Tar Refining Co. , (2007) 8 SCC 110. ( ii)Vinitec Electronics Private Ltd. Vs. HCL 
 Infosystems Ltd. , (2008) 1 SCC 544. ( iii)Mahatma Gandhi Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana 
 Vs. National Heavy Engineering Co-op. Ltd. , 
 

 2007 DGLS (soft) 750 : 2007(6) S.C.C.470. (iv)Mak Impex Chemicals P.Ltd. and another 
 Vs. Union of India and others , AIR 2003 
 Bombay 88. ( v)Maytas Infra Limited Vs. Utility 
 Energytech & Engineers Pvt.Ltd . & anr., 2009 
 B.C.I.133. (vi)and the decision in Appeal Against Order 
 No.6/2011 delivered by me on 26.7.2011 in 

 the matter of Coal India Ltd. and another 
 Vs. Chintamani Agrotech (India) Ltd. and 
 others , 13) Inviting my attention to the letter dated 

 .....15/- 0609ao85.11.odt 15 18.5.2011 issued by the appellant awarding the 

 
 contract to the respondent no.1, Shri A.M.Gordey, the 

 learned Senior Counsel, has urged that the specific 

 
 condition in the contract was that the respondent 

 no.1 shall submit the valid Bank Guarantees of a 

 Nationalized/Scheduled Bank by way of 

 
 performance/additional performance security. The 
 
 respondent no.1 has submitted the fake Bank 

 Guarantees of non existent Bank and thus, it was the 
 
 violation of the terms and conditions of the contract 

 for which, the Bank Guarantees were invoked. He 
 

 further submits that the respondent no.1 has carried 
 

 out the work only to the extent of Rs.595.93 Lacs, 

 which is the 40% of the total work and the balance 

 60% of the work costing of Rs.799.86 Lacs remained 

 incomplete. He further submits that incomplete work 

 is to be awarded to the another contractor and 

 considering the inflation, the said cost is assessed 

 at Rs.1182.52 approximately and as such an additional 

 expenditure of Rs.382.66 Lacs, is legally recoverable 

 from the respondent no.1. He submits that it is thus 

 .....16/- 0609ao85.11.odt 16 a failure/negligence in performing the terms and 

 
 conditions of the contract by the respondent no.1, 

 that the amount as assessed has become recoverable 

 
 for which the Bank Guarantees have been invoked. 14) The contention of Shri J.P.Pendse, the 

 
 learned Counsel for the respondent no.1, is that the 
 
 preamble of the Bank Guarantees clearly indicate that 

 the contract of the Bank Guarantees in question, is a 
 
 conditional and contingent contract depending upon 

 the fulfillment of the conditions specified therein. According to him, there should be a demand in writing 
 

 stating that there is a specified amount which is due 

 and payable by the respondent no.1 for the reason of 

 the failure/negligence in performing the terms and 

 conditions contained in the contract by the 

 respondent no.1. Referring to the letter dated 

 17.2.2011, impugned in the Special Civil Suit No.236 

 of 2011, he has urged that there is nothing on record 

 to show that any amount is due and payable by the 

 respondent no.1 to the appellant for the reason of 

 .....17/- 0609ao85.11.odt 17 failure/negligence in performing the terms and 

 
 conditions contained in the contract. He further 

 submits that there is no demand as contemplated in 

 
 the preamble of the said agreement, made in the 

 impugned communication dated 17.2.2011. According to 

 him, the terms of the contract of Bank Guarantees 

 
 have to be strictly construed and the compliance in 
 
 respect thereof needs to be seen. He submits that in 

 the absence of compliance with the terms of the Bank 
 
 Guarantees, the invocation causes an irretrievable 

 injury to the respondent no.1. He further submits 
 

 that the violation of the terms of the guarantee has 
 

 to be regarded as species of the same genus as fraud, 

 which disentitles a beneficiary to enforce the Bank 

 Guarantee. 15) In support of the plea that the Bank 

 Guarantees are conditional, Shri J.P.Pendse, the 

 learned Counsel for the respondent no.1, has relied 

 upon the decisions in the cases of-- .....18/- 0609ao85.11.odt 18 ( a) Hindustan Construction Co. Ltd. Vs. 
 State of Bihar and others with State of 

 
 Bihar and others Vs. Hindustan Construction 
 Co. Ltd. and others , reported in (1999) 8 
 SCC 436. ( b) Vinitec Electronics Private Ltd. Vs. HCL 
 Infosystems Ltd. , (2008) 1 SCC 544. (c) National Aluminium Co. Ltd., Vs. 
 M/s.R.S.Builders (India) Ltd. and others, 

 
 reported in AIR 1991 Orissa 314. 16)
 
 In the decision of the Apex Court in Hindustan Construction Co. Ltd. Vs. State of Bihar 

 and others , the order passed by the Single Judge of 

 this Court granting injunction restraining the 
 

 defendants from invoking the Bank Guarantees was 
 

 restored by modifying the decision of the Division 

 Bench of this Court vacating the injunction granted 

 by the learned Single Judge in respect of the 

 performance guarantee. Paras-9, 10 and 14 of the said 

 judgment are relevant and the same are reproduced 

 below-- Para-9 : "What is important, therefore, 
 is that the bank guarantee should be in 
 unequivocal terms, unconditional and 

 .....19/- 0609ao85.11.odt 19 recite that the amount would be paid 
 without demur or objection and 

 
 irrespective of any dispute that might 
 have cropped up or might have been 
 pending between the beneficiary under 
 the bank guarantee or the person on 

 
 whose behalf the guarantee was 
 furnished. The terms of the bank 
 guarantee are, therefore, extremely 
 material. Since the bank guarantee 
 represents an independent contract 

 
 between the bank and the beneficiary, 
 both the parties would be bound by the 
 terms thereof. The invocation, 
 
 therefore, will have to be in 
 accordance with the terms of the bank 
 guarantee, or else, the invocation 
 
 itself would be bad." Para-10 : "In the instant case, the 
 whole matter can be disposed of purely 
 on the basis of the terms of the bank 
 

 guarantee." Para-14 : "This condition clearly 
 refers to the original contract between 
 HCCL and the defendants and postulates 
 that if the obligations, expressed in 

 the contract, are not fulfilled by HCCL 
 giving to the defendants the right to 
 claim recovery of the whole or part of 
 the "advance mobilisation loan", then 
 the Bank would pay the amount due under 
 the guarantee to the Executive 

 Engineer. By referring specifically to 
 clause 9, the Bank has qualified its 
 liability to pay the amount covered by 
 the guarantee relating to "advance 
 mobilisation loan" to the Executive 
 Engineer only if the obligations under 
 the contract were not fulfilled by HCCL 
 or HCCL has misappropriated any portion 

 .....20/- 0609ao85.11.odt 20 of the "advance mobilisation loan". It 
 is in these circumstances that the 

 
 aforesaid clause would operate and the 
 whole of the amount covered by the 
 "mobilisation advance" would become 
 payable on demand. The bank guarantee 

 
 thus could be invoked only in the 
 circumstances referred to in clause 9 
 whereunder the amount would become 
 payable only if the obligations are not 
 fulfilled or there is misappropriation. That being so, the bank guarantee could 
 not be said to be unconditional or 
 unequivocal in terms so that the 
 
 defendants could be said to have had an 
 unfettered right to invoke that 
 guarantee and demand immediate payment 
 
 thereof from the Bank. This aspect of 
 the matter was wholly ignored by the 
 High Court and it unnecessarily 
 interfered with the order of 
 injunction, granted by the Single 
 

 Judge, by which the defendants were 
 restrained from invoking the bank 
 

 guarantee." It has been held that in order to ascertain 

 whether the Bank Guarantees are conditional or 

 unconditional, the terms of the Bank Guarantees are 

 extremely material. The Bank Guarantees 

 represent an independent contract between the Bank 

 and the beneficiary, and the parties would be bound 

 by the terms thereof. The invocation therefore, will 

 .....21/- 0609ao85.11.odt 21 have to be in accordance with the terms of the Bank 

 
 Guarantees or else the invocation itself would be 

 bad. The matter has to be disposed of purely on the 

 
 basis of the terms of the Bank Guarantees. If the 

 Bank Guarantees furnished were conditional then the 

 defendants have no unfettered right to invoke the 

 
 Bank Guarantees and to the demand immediate payment 
 
 thereof from the Bank. 17) In the decision of Vinitec Electronics 

 Private Ltd. Vs. HCL Infosystems Ltd. , the question 
 

 considered was whether the Bank Guarantees furnished 
 

 were unconditional and irrevocable. Paras-16 and 22 

 of the said judgment are relevant and hence, the same 

 are reproduced below-- Para-16 : "Shorn of all the 
 embellishments, the question that 

 really arises for our consideration is 
 as to whether bank guarantee furnished 
 is an unconditional and irrevocable one 
 or a conditional one? It may not be 
 necessary to refer in detail the terms 
 and conditions of the contract except 
 to analyse the original clause of the 
 bank guarantee dated 10.8.2001 and as 

 .....22/- 0609ao85.11.odt 22 well as the subsequent amendment of the 
 relevant clause in the said bank 

 
 guarantee on 20.8.2001." Para-22 : "In the present case the 
 amended clause does not refer to any of 

 
 the clauses specifically as such but on 
 the other hand the Bank had undertaken 
 responsibility to pay any sum or sums 
 within the guaranteed limit upon 
 receipt of written demand from the 

 
 Company. The operative portion of the 
 bank guarantee furnished by the Bank 
 does not refer to any of the conditions 
 
 for payment under the bank guarantee. 
 It is true that the bank guarantee 
 furnished makes a reference to the 
 
 principal agreement between the parties 
 in its preamble. Mere fact that the 
 bank guarantee refers to the principal 
 agreement in the preamble of the deed 
 of guarantee does not make the 
 

 guarantee furnished by the Bank to be a 
 conditional one unless any particular 
 

 clause of the agreement has been made 
 part of the deed of guarantee." It is thus reiterated that the clauses in 

 the Bank Guarantee are relevant and material for 

 determination as to whether the Bank Guarantees 

 furnished are unconditional, irrevocable one or 

 conditional one. On the interpretation of clauses, it 

 has to be decided as to whether the Bank Guarantees 

 furnished are unconditional or conditional. However, 

 .....23/- 0609ao85.11.odt 23 a word of caution is that the mere fact that the Bank 

 
 Guarantee refers to the principal agreement, does not 

 make the Bank Guarantee to be conditional one, unless 

 
 any particular clause of the agreement has been made 

 part of the deed of guarantee. 18) The Division Bench of the Orissa High Court 
 
 has also dealt with the question of conditional Bank 

 Guarantee in its judgment in National Aluminium Co 's 
 
 case cited supra, and the relevant portion of the 

 paras-6, 7, 8 and 11 of the said judgment delivered 
 

 by Hon'ble Shri B.L.Hansaria, C.J., (as he then was) 
 

 are reproduced below-- Para-6 : "If the bank guarantee be 
 conditional, the same becomes 
 enforceable upon the fulfilment of the 
 condition stipulated and in such a case 
 the beneficiary must allege in the 
 demand that the condition has been 

 fulfilled. The latest decision of the 
 Calcutta High Court is the one rendered 
 in National Thermal Power Corporation 
 Ltd. vs. Hind Galvanizing and 
 Engineering Co. Ltd. , AIR 1990 Cal 421, 
 in which the Bench has stated that as 
 long as the demand of the beneficiary 
 is in terms of the bank guarantee, it 

 .....24/- 0609ao85.11.odt 24 is not a defence that under the parent 
 contract the beneficiary of the 

 
 guarantee is not entitled to the amount 
 from the bank." Para-7 : "In Synthetic Foams Ltd. vs 

 
 Simplex concrete Piles (India) Pvt. 
 Ltd., AIR 1988 Delhi, 207, a learned 
 single Judge has stated that 
 misrepresentation, suppression of 
 material facts and violation of the 

 
 terms of the guarantee can be regarded 
 as species of the same genus as fraud 
 which would disentitle a beneficiary to 
 
 enforce the bank guarantee. It had been 
 earlier stated in M/s.B.L.R.Mohan v. 
 Punjab State Co-operative Supply & 
 
 Marketing Federation Ltd., AIR 1982 
 Delhi 357, by another learned single 
 Judge that the demand under the bank 
 guarantee must be in strict accord with 
 the terms of the guarantee." Para-8 : "We may also refer to a recent 
 

 decision of the Punjab & Haryana High 
 Court in National Project Construction 
 Corporation Ltd. v. M/s.Sadhu and 
 Company, AIR 1990 P & H 300, tht the 

 demand under the bank guarantee has to 
 be in accordance with the eventualities 
 mentioned in the deed of guarantee, and 
 it is conclusive as regards the amount 
 due and payable by the bank." Para-11 : "But then, the bank 
 guarantees at hand cannot be regarded 
 as absolutely unconditional inasmuch as 
 the payment under guarantees is 
 dependent upon the contractor 
 committing default in performing any of 
 the terms and conditions of the 
 contract or in the payment of any money 

 .....25/- 0609ao85.11.odt 25 due to the owner or in case the amount 
 at the specified rates cannot be 

 
 deducted from the running bills of the 
 contractor by the owner towards the 
 payment of Mobilisation Advance. As to 
 the fulfilment of those conditions, we 

 
 would state that the statement of the 
 beneficiary would be taken at its face 
 value unless the contractor be in a 
 position to establish that the stand of 
 the beneficiary is actuated by fraud, 

 
 misrepresentation, deliberate 
 suppression of material facts or the 
 like which would give rise to special 
 
 equities in favour of the contractor. 
 So, in the absence of a case of fraud, 
 misrepresentation, deliberate 
 
 suppression of material facts or the 
 like, to establish which a heavy onus 
 lies on the contractor, a bank 
 guarantee like the one at hand has to 
 be honoured by the bank and the 
 

 beneficiary cannot be restrained from 
 enforcement. Further, decision about 
 

 fraud, etc. has to be arrived at by the 
 court approached by the contractor to 
 restrain the beneficiary from enforcing 
 the bank guarantee. The court cannot 

 await for this purpose the finding of 
 the arbitrator." It has been held that if the Bank Guarantees 

 be conditional, the same become enforceable upon 

 fulfillment of the conditions stipulated and in such 

 a case, the beneficiary must allege in the demand, 

 that the conditions have been fulfilled. The 

 .....26/- 0609ao85.11.odt 26 violation of the terms of guarantee can be regarded 

 
 as the species of the same genus as fraud, which 

 disentitles a beneficiary to enforce the Bank 

 
 Guarantees. The demand for Bank Guarantees must be in 

 strict accord with the terms of the Bank Guarantees 

 and it has to be in accordance with the eventualities 

 
 mentioned in the deed of guarantee. 19) In the context of the aforesaid position of 
 
 law laid down by the Apex Court, Section 126 of the 

 Indian Contract Act, 1872, regarding contract of 
 

 guarantee needs to be seen. The said provision of Section 126 is, therefore, reproduced below-- Section 126 . 'Contract of guarantee', 
 'surety', 'principal debtor' and 
 'creditor'- "A 'contract of guarantee' 
 is a contract to perform the promise, 
 or discharge the liability, of a third 
 person in case of his default. The 

 person who gives the guarantee is 
 called the 'surety'; the person in 
 respect of whose default the guarantee 
 is given is called the 'principal 
 debtor', and the person to whom the 
 guarantee is given is called the 
 'creditor'. A guarantee may be either 
 oral or written." .....27/- 0609ao85.11.odt 27 A contract of guarantee is a contract to 

 perform the promise or discharge the liability of a 

 
 third person in case of his default. The person who 

 gives the guarantee is called 'surety'; the person in 

 respect of whose default the guarantee is given is 

 
 called the 'principal debtor', and the person to whom 
 
 the guarantee is given is called the 'creditor'. 20) Section 31 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, 

 defines the contingent contract and the same is 
 

 reproduced below-- Chapter III : OF CONTINGENT CONTRACTS

 " Section 31 . "Contingent contract" Section 32 of the said Act, deals with the 

 enforcement of the contracts contingent on an event 

 happening, and the same is also relevant hence, 

 .....28/- 0609ao85.11.odt 28 reproduced below-- A contract of guarantee is an independent 

 contract between the Bank and the beneficiary thereof 

 and if it is a contract, which permits the creditor 
 

 to invoke the Bank Guarantee upon happening of an 
 

 uncertain future event, then it becomes a 'contingent 

 contract' as defined under Section 31 and it cannot 

 be enforced by law unless and until that event has 

 happened, in view of the provision of Section 32 . Till happening of an event, it merely remains a 

 contract which is unenforceable. In case of such 

 contingent contract, the beneficiary has no 

 unfettered right to invoke the Bank Guarantees and to 

 demand immediate payment. The terms of such contract 

 .....29/- 0609ao85.11.odt 29 will have to be strictly construed and if it 

 
 prescribes the manner in which performance is to be 

 claimed, it will have to be seen as to whether the 

 
 performance is claimed, in the manner so prescribed. If the invocation is not in accordance with the terms 

 and the manner prescribed, it would be bad. The 

 
 violation of the terms can be regarded as the species 
 
 of the same genus as fraud which disentitles a 

 beneficiary to invoke the Bank Guarantees. 21) In the light of the aforesaid position of 
 

 law, it is required to be found out from the terms of 
 

 the Bank Guarantees in question as to whether it is a 

 contingent or conditional contract or an 

 unconditional or irrevocable contract. A Proforma of 

 Bank Guarantee in lieu of security deposit relied 

 upon by both the parties in support of their rival 

 contentions contained under an Agreement No.08/2007-

 2008, is reproduced below-- On Stamp of Rs.100

 .....30/- 0609ao85.11.odt 30 PROFORMA OF BANK GUARANTEE IN LIEU OF 
 SECURITY DEPOSIT. M/s.Western Coalfields Limited,
 Coal Estate, Civil Lines, Nagpur. Dear Sir, 1. In consideration of M/s.Western 
 Coalfields Limited, having its 
 Registered Office at Nagpur 

 
 (hereinafter called "The Company" which 
 expression shall unless repugnant to 
 
 the subject or context includes its 
 successors and assigns) having agreed 
 under the terms and conditions 
 contained in letter no.......... dated ....... Issued in favour of 
 M/s................ for ........ 
 (hereinafter referred to as 'the 
 contract' to accept the Deed of 
 guarantee as herein provided for 
 

 Rs...... from the Schedule/Nationalized 
 Bank (whose branches are scheduled at 
 

 Nagpur) in lieu of security deposit to 
 made by M/s............... (here in 
 after called "the Contractor") or in 
 lieu of deduction to be made from the 

 contractor's bill for due fulfillment 
 of the terms and conditions contained 
 in the said contract by the contractor, 
 we the ........... Bank (hereinafter 
 referred to as the said Bank) having 
 its Registered Office at ......... do 

 hereby undertake and agreed to pay the 
 company to the extent of Rs........ On 
 demand stating that the amount claimed 
 by the company is due and payable by 
 the contractor for the reasons of 
 failure/negligence in performing the 
 terms and conditions contained in the 
 contract by the buyer and to 

 .....31/- 0609ao85.11.odt 31 unconditionally pay the amount claimed 
 by the company on demand without any 

 
 demur to the extent aforesaid. 1. We .......... Bank agree that the 
 company shall be the sole judge as to 

 
 whether the said contractor has 
 failed/neglected in performing any of 
 the terms and conditions of the said 
 contract and the decision of the 
 company in this behalf shall be final 

 
 and binding on us. 2. We the said Bank further agree that 
 
 the Guarantee herein contained shall 
 remain in full force and effect 
 upto ....... And any claim received 
 
 after the said date shall in no case 
 bind the Bank. 3. The Company shall have the fullest 
 liberty without affecting in any way 
 

 the liability of the Bank under this 
 guarantee or indemnity from time to 
 

 time vary any of the terms and 
 conditions of the said contract or to 
 extend the time of performance by the 
 said contractor or to postpone any time 

 and from time to time any of the powers 
 exercisable by it against the said 
 contractor and either to enforce or to 
 forbear from enforcing nay of the terms 
 and conditions governing the said 
 contract or securities available to the 

 company and the said Bank shall not be 
 released from its liability under these 
 presents. 5. Notwithstanding anything contained 
 herein the liability of the said Bank 
 under this guarantee is restricted to 
 Rs.......... and this Guarantee shall 

 .....32/- 0609ao85.11.odt 32 come into force from the date hereof 
 and shall remain in full force and 

 
 effect till ........ Unless the written 
 demand or claim under this guarantee is 
 made by the Company with us on or 
 before........ all rights of the 

 
 company under this guarantee shall 
 cease to have any effect and we shall 
 relieved and discharged from our 
 liabilities hereunder. 5. The said contractor hereby covenants 
 with the company that the Company shall 
 retain a sum of Rs......... or such sum 
 
 as may be arrived at based on the 
 executed value of the work, as security 
 deposit for the fulfillment of the 
 
 contract to the satisfaction of the 
 Company. IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE parties herein 
 have set their hands and seals the date 
 

 and year above written. In consideration of the appellant 

 M/s.Western Coalfields Limited, (the company) having 

 agreed under the terms and conditions contained in 

 the letter dated 18.5.2007 issued in favour of the 

 contractor (M/s.Shree Sai Construction Company, the 

 respondent no.1) the deed of guarantee has been 

 executed by the Bank (Oriental Bank of Commerce, the 

 respondent no.2) for the fulfillment of the terms and 

 .....33/- 0609ao85.11.odt 33 conditions contained in the contract by the 

 
 contractor (the respondent no.1). The preamble of the 

 Bank Guarantee recites that the Bank (respondent 

 
 no.2) has undertaken and agreed to pay the Company 

 (M/s.Western Coalfields Limited), the amount 

 stipulated in each of the two Bank Guarantees on 

 
 demand stating that the amount claimed by it is due 
 
 and payable by the contractor for the reasons of 

 failure/negligence in performing the terms and 
 
 conditions contained in the contract by the 

 contractor (respondent no.1) and to unconditionally 
 

 pay the amount claimed by it on demand without any 
 

 demur. 22) From the contents of the Bank Guarantee it 

 is clear that the contract is already formed 

 containing the terms and conditions. Hence, the terms 

 of contract are extremely material and the same are 

 required to be looked into. The obligation of the 

 respondent no.2 Bank to make the payment of the 

 amount covered by the Bank Guarantees arises, only on 

 .....34/- 0609ao85.11.odt 34 the demand to be made in writing and this is apparent 

 
 from clause 5 under the Bank Guarantee, which speaks 

 about the written demand or claim under the Bank 

 
 Guarantee. The demand in writing must state exactly 

 the amount assessed as due and payable by the 

 respondent no.1 Company for the reason of 

 
 failure/negligence of the respondent no.1 Company in 
 
 performing certain specified terms and conditions 

 contained in the contract between the appellant and 
 
 the respondent no.1. If the demand is not in writing 

 stating the actual amount which is assessed and found 
 

 to be due and payable for the reason stated in the 
 

 Bank Guarantees, then there is no obligation to make 

 payment. Unless there is a failure/negligence in 

 performing the terms and conditions of contract, the 

 amount which becomes due and payable by the 

 respondent no.1 cannot be assessed and claimed. Hence, it is a 'contingent contract' as defined under Section 31 of the Contract Act and it becomes 

 enforceable only upon happening of the event 

 specified therein, as per Section 32 of the Contract 

 .....35/- 0609ao85.11.odt 35 Act. 23) The question is whether, in fact there is 

 
 such compliance of the conditions stipulated under 

 the Bank Guarantees in the present case. Undoubtedly, 

 it is by letter dated 17.2.2011, that there is a 

 
 demand made by the appellants to the respondent no.2 
 
 Bank for payment of the amount of Bank Guarantees 

 which has been impugned in the civil suit. The said 
 
 letter is relevant and the same is, therefore, 

 reproduced below-- Ref No.NGP/WCL/Civil/66-67/1106

 Date 17.02.2011

 To,
 The Branch Manager
 The Oriental Bank of Commerce,
 "Gold Sukh", Kasturba Chowk, Shree Ram 
 Market, Chandrapur-442 401. Sub : Encashment of Bank Guarantees. Ref : A) BG NO.02020002908 dated
 19.02.2008 for Rs.1,54,94,580/- 
 and 
 B) BG No.02020002808 
 dated 19.02.2008 for
 Rs.69,79,000/-. .....36/- 0609ao85.11.odt 36 Dear Sir,

 
 Enclosed find herewith photo 
 copies of BG No.0202002808 dated 
 19.02.2008 for Rs.69,79,000/- and BG 

 
 No.0202002908 dated 19.02.2008 for 
 Rs.1,54,94,580/- both valid upto 
 19.11.2011 for encashment. You are hereby requested to 

 
 send us an amount of Rs.2,24,73,580/- 
 which is total amount of both the BG's 
 duly encashed through Demand Draft 
 
 drawn in favour of M/s.Western 
 Coalfields Limited payable at Nagpur. On receipt of DD for the above 
 amount, the original Bank Guarantees 
 shall be returned to you. Yours faithfully,
 Sd/- 17.2.11
 General Manager (Civil Incharge

 Copy to information to : 0609ao85.11.odt 37 has become due and payable from the respondent no.1, 

 
 has not been stated. In fact, there is no assessment 

 of the amount which is said to have become due and 

 
 payable in terms of the Bank Guarantees. It is not 

 stated as to whether such amount has become due and 

 payable for the reasons of failure/negligence in 

 
 performing any of the specified terms and conditions 
 
 contained in the contract between the appellant and 

 the respondent no.1. The cause of action for seeking 
 
 enforcement of the obligation on the part of the 

 respondent no.2 Bank to make the payment of the 
 

 amount covered by the Bank Guarantees, has not at all 
 

 been disclosed. The claim for seeking enforcement is 

 also not in the manner prescribed under the contract 

 of Bank Guarantees. There is nothing to show that the 

 events specified for invocation of Bank Guarantees 

 have occurred. Hence, the invocation is not in 

 accordance with the terms and conditions prescribed, 

 the same is, therefore, bad and unenforceable. It is 

 not a case of mere reference to the terms of the 

 contract entered between the appellant and the 

 .....38/- 0609ao85.11.odt 38 respondent, but it is a case where the appellant 

 
 Company is required to process its claim by assessing 

 the amount due and payable by the respondent no.1 for 

 
 the reason of failure/negligence to perform the terms 

 and conditions contained in the contract, which forms 

 a condition precedent to seek enforcement of Bank 

 
 Guarantees. It is not a case of conferment of an 
 
 unfettered right to demand immediate payment upon the 

 appellant. 24) The requirement of unconditional payment of 
 

 the amount of Bank Guarantee without any demur, has 
 

 nothing to do with the compliance of the conditions 

 of Bank Guarantees and it only prohibits the 

 respondent no.2 Bank from raising any dispute as to 

 compliance or fulfillment of the terms and conditions 

 of the contract between the appellant and the 

 respondent no.1 Company. The respondent no.2 Bank 

 cannot insist for proof of failure or negligence of 

 respondent no.1 Company in performing the terms and 

 conditions contained in the contract. It is in this 

 .....39/- 0609ao85.11.odt 39 background that the Condition No.1 has been 

 
 incorporated in the Bank Guarantees agreeing, that 

 the appellant Company shall be the sole judge as to 

 
 whether the said contractor has failed/neglected in 

 performing any of the terms and conditions of the 

 said contract and the decision of the appellant 

 
 Company in this behalf shall be binding upon the 
 
 respondent no.2 Bank. Hence, on the basis of 

 condition no.1 in the Bank Guarantee it cannot be 
 
 urged that it is an unconditional Bank Guarantee and 

 confers an unfettered right upon the appellant to 
 

 invoke the Bank Guarantees and to demand immediate 
 

 payment. 25) Shri A.M.Gordey, the learned Senior Counsel 

 appearing for the appellant, has invited my attention 

 to the para-7 of the written statement, which is 

 reproduced below-- It is urged that it is the amount of 

 Rs.382.66 Lacks, which has become due and payable by 

 the respondent no.1 for the reason of 

 failure/negligence in performing the terms and 

 conditions in the contract. Prima-facie, it is not 

 possible to accept this argument for several reasons. Firstly, this is not the demand in writing reflected 

 in the letter dated 17.2.2011 invoking the Bank 

 Guarantees which is already reproduced above. .....41/- 0609ao85.11.odt 41 Secondly, it is an undisputed factual position, that 

 
 the invocation of the Bank Guarantees is not on the 

 ground that the respondent no.1 has failed to 

 
 complete 60% of work. On the contrary, specific stand 

 is that non-completion of 60% of work is totally 

 irrelevant for the purposes of the controversy 

 
 involved in the case. Thirdly, the finding recorded 
 
 by the Trial Court about the failure of the 

 appellants to discharge their obligations in respect 
 
 of four items as are specified in para-10 above, has 

 not been assailed along with the further finding that 
 

 the appellants and the State Government are unable to 
 

 remove the hindrances so as to enable the respondent 

 no.1 to complete the work. Fourthly, unless the 

 hindrances are removed by discharging the obligations 

 by the appellants and the State Government, it may 

 not be possible for any other contractor to complete 

 the remaining incomplete work to the extent of 60% of 

 work. Fifthly, the contract to complete the balance 

 60% of work is yet to be awarded to any other 

 contractor and lastly the amounts so assessed, is not 

 .....42/- 0609ao85.11.odt 42 for the reason of the alleged failure/negligence on 

 
 the part of the respondent no.1 in performing the 

 terms and conditions of the contract. 26) Shri A.M.Gordey, the learned Senior Counsel 

 appearing for the appellants and Shri J.P.Pendse, the 

 
 learned Counsel for the respondents have taken me 
 
 through the judgments relied upon by Shri A.M.Gordey, 

 the learned Senior Counsel, which are listed in 
 
 earlier paras and delivered by the Apex Court and by 

 this Court. In all these judgments, the finding is 
 

 recorded that the Bank Guarantees in question were 
 

 unconditional and in the light of such proof of fact, 

 that the Apex Court has laid down the principles for 

 grant of injunction in the matter of invocation of 

 the Bank Guarantees, which are contained in para-14 

 of the decision in the case of Himadri Chemicals 

 Industries Limited Vs. Coal Tar Refining Co. , (2007) 

 8 SCC 110, which is reproduced below-- 0609ao85.11.odt 44 credit and the beneficiary seeks to 
 take advantage of the situation. (vi) Allowing encashment of an 
 unconditional bank guarantee or a 
 letter of credit would result in 

 
 irretrievable harm or injustice to one 
 of the parties concerned." There cannot be any dispute about the 

 proposition of law laid down by the Apex Court in the 
 
 aforesaid judgment, which follows several earlier 
 
 judgments of the Apex Court. The law of precedents is 

 well settled. A decision is an authority for what it 

 actually decides and not for what logically follows 
 

 from it. Every judgment must be read as applicable to 
 

 the particular of facts proved or assumed to be 

 proved and the exposition of law therein, 

 is governed or qualified or controlled by the facts, 

 which are held to be proved. The judgment is required 

 to be understood in the light of the facts of that 

 case and no more can be read into it, then what it 

 actually says. Once it is held in the facts of the 

 present case that it is a contingent contract of Bank 

 Guarantees, then the law down by the Apex Court in 

 .....45/- 0609ao85.11.odt 45 the judgments relied upon by Shri A.M.Gordey, the 

 
 learned Senior Counsel, ceases to apply. 27) The contention of Shri A.M.Gordey, the 

 learned Senior Counsel, is that the respondent no.1 

 is not competent to make any grievance about the non- fulfillment of the terms of the Bank Guarantees for 
 
 the reason that he is not a party to the contracts of 

 Bank Guarantees. According to him, it is only the 
 
 respondent no.2 Bank which can make a grievance about 

 non-fulfillment of the terms of the Bank Guarantees. He submits that the respondent no.1 is neither a 
 

 person aggrieved nor has any locus standi to complain 

 about the violation of the terms of the Bank 

 Guarantees. The contention cannot be accepted. The 

 respondent no.1 is the principal debtor within the 

 meaning of Section 126 of the Contract Act. It is at 

 his instance that the conditional Bank Guarantees 

 have been furnished by the respondent no.2 Bank in 

 favour of the appellant creditor. It is the liability 

 of the respondent no.1 which is being discharged by 

 .....46/- 0609ao85.11.odt 46 the respondent no.2 Bank. Hence, the respondent no.1 

 
 has right to know and complain about the non- fulfillment of the conditions of the Bank Guarantees. Merely because the respondent no.2 Bank has not 

 raised any objection about non-fulfillment of the 

 terms of the Bank Guarantees, that will not prevent 

 
 the respondent no.1 from raising any objection in 
 
 respect of it. Ultimately, the respondent no.2 would 

 obviously recover the amount that shall be paid to 
 
 the appellant, from the respondent no.1. Hence, the 

 respondent no.1 is competent and has locus to 
 

 challenge the invocation of the Bank Guarantees by 
 

 the appellants. 28) Now, coming to the contention of Shri 

 A.M.Gordey, the learned Senior Counsel, that there is 

 failure to comply with the conditions regarding 

 submission of valid Bank Guarantees of a 

 Nationalized/Scheduled Bank by way of 

 performance/additional performance security, it is 

 not in dispute that the respondent no.1 has submitted 

 .....47/- 0609ao85.11.odt 47 two fake Bank Guarantees of non existent Bank namely 

 
 M/s.Mahesh Merchant Bank Limited, Chandrapur, on 

 10.10.2007. The first Bank Guarantee of 

 
 Rs.69,79,000/- was by way of security for 

 performance of contract towards 5% of value of 

 awarded contract and the another was for 

 
 Rs.1,54,94,580/- towards additional performance 
 
 security deposit and retention money to be recovered 

 from the running bills. Undisputedly, these two Bank 
 
 Guarantees have been substituted by two fresh Bank 

 Guarantees of the same amount on 19.2.2009 issued by 
 

 the respondent no.2 Oriental Bank of Commerce, a 
 

 Nationalized Bank, which are valid upto 19.11.2011. 29) The claim of the respondent no.1 plaintiff 

 is that his Power of Attorney obtained fake Bank 

 Guarantees and submitted it to the appellant and as 

 soon as it was discovered, the respondent no.1 on his 

 own submitted fresh Bank Guarantees dated 19.2.2009 

 of the Nationalized Bank. The case of the appellant 

 is that the fact of submission of fake Bank 

 .....48/- 0609ao85.11.odt 48 Guarantees was discovered by the appellant. Keeping 

 
 aside such dispute at this stage, the fact remains 

 that the appellant has accepted the submission of 

 
 fresh Bank Guarantees, which are valid and operating 

 till 19.11.2011 and the penal interest of 

 Rs.16,85,220/- @ 18 % per annum on the total 

 
 amount of Bank Guarantees of Rs.2,24,73,580/- has 
 
 been recovered from the respondent no.1 for the 

 period five months from 10.10.2007 to 19.2.2008. The 
 
 termination of contract is by letter dated 16.9.2010 

 for the reason of furnishing fake Bank Guarantees of 
 

 the non existent Bank by the respondent no.1. Though 
 

 the discovery about the submission of fake Bank 

 Guarantees was on 19.2.2009 or may even be prior to 

 that, the termination is after lapse of 17 months. The Bank Guarantees have not been invoked at the time 

 of termination of contract on 16.9.2010, but it is 

 after a lapse of five months on 17.2.2011. Thus, 

 prima-facie it is a case of forgiveness and recovery 

 resulting into condonation of the violation of the 

 said term under the contract without resulting any 

 .....49/- 0609ao85.11.odt 49 financial loss or implications to the appellant. 30) The Trial Court has prima-facie accepted the 

 
 case of the respondent no.1 plaintiff that the act of 

 submitting fake Bank Guarantees was done by the Power 

 of Attorney holder and as soon as it came to the 

 
 notice of the respondent no.1, he voluntarily 
 
 replaced the same with valid Bank Guarantees of a 

 Nationalized Bank i.e. the respondent no.2. The 
 
 finding is recorded that the extension of the period 

 of such Bank Guarantees has also been accepted by 
 

 the appellant and at this stage, it cannot be said 
 

 that the fake Bank Guarantees were furnished only 

 with a view to obtain the work. The Trial Court has 

 held that the appellants have covered the penal 

 interest on account of the submission of the Bank 

 Guarantees for a period of five months and the 

 criminal investigation pending against the respondent 

 no.1 will take its own course. No fault can be found 

 with such a view taken by the Trial Court. .....50/- 0609ao85.11.odt 50 31) The entire conduct of the appellant and the 

 conspectus of facts depict that the invocation of the 

 
 Bank Guarantees is, prima-facie not for the purpose 

 or the reason stated in the Bank Guarantees, but is 

 for some extraneous reasons, may be to cover up the 

 
 lapses on the part of the appellant in performing 
 
 their obligations. The contention of Shri J.P.Pendse, 

 the learned Counsel for the respondent no.1, that 
 
 the invocation of the Bank Guarantees could have been 

 only during the subsistence of contract or at the 
 

 most while terminating the contract on 16.9.2010, 
 

 sounds correct. Undisputedly, the invocation of the 

 Bank Guarantees is after lapse of five months from 

 the date of termination of contract. Prima-facie in 

 my view, the invocation of the Bank Guarantees much 

 after the date of termination of contract, is an 

 after thought and not bonafide. The Trial Court has 

 recorded the finding that there is no fault on the 

 part of the appellant, in delay caused in completion 

 of the work and it is the appellants/defendant nos.1 

 .....51/- 0609ao85.11.odt 51 and 2 and the State Government, who were unable to 

 
 remove the hindrances as a result of which the 

 respondent no.1/plaintiff could not execute the work. The Trial Court has held that in such a situation, 

 there is no question of recovery of any damages from 

 the security deposit in respect of which the Bank 

 
 Guarantees have been furnished and refusal to grant 
 
 an injunction would result in frustrating the 

 claim of the respondent no.1/plaintiff. In 
 
 the background of the facts of this case, I 

 do not find any fault with such a finding recorded 
 

 by the Trial Court. 32) Once it is held that the Bank Guarantees are 

 conditional or contingent and enforceable only upon 

 happening of certain events and that those events 

 have not yet happened, the Division Bench of the 

 Orissa High Court in its judgment in National 

 Aluminium Co 's case cited supra, has held that the 

 violation of the terms of the guarantee can be 

 regarded as species of the same genus as fraud, which 

 .....52/- 0609ao85.11.odt 52 disentitles a beneficiary to enforce the Bank 

 
 Guarantees. Once it is held that the invocation of 

 the Bank Guarantees is not for the purposes or the 

 
 reasons mentioned in the Bank Guarantees, the refusal 

 to grant an injunction would result in causing an 

 irretrievable injury to the respondent no.1 as he 

 
 would be deprived of huge amount of Bank Guarantees 
 
 for the purposes of his business. Prima-facie, it 

 would amount to an unjust enrichment of the 
 
 appellants/defendant nos.1 and 2. Hence, no fault can 

 be found with the order of injunction passed by the 
 

 Trial Court. However, it will be with a rider that 
 

 one month before the expiry of the validity period of 

 both the Bank Guarantees, the respondent no.1 shall 

 produce renewal of validity period of Bank 

 Guarantees, during the pendency of the suit. If such 

 renewal is not produced before the Trial Court, prior 

 to the period of 30 days of the expiry of the 

 validity period, the order of injunction granted by 

 the Trial Court and confirmed by this Court, shall 

 stand automatically vacated without further orders 

 .....53/- 0609ao85.11.odt 53 from Court and any payment, if any, made by the Bank 

 
 to the appellants/defendant nos.1 and 2 shall be 

 subject to the decision in the suit. In such 

 
 eventuality if the ultimate decision in the suit goes 

 in favour of the respondent no.1/plaintiff, then 

 there shall be an order of refund with interest @ 6% 

 
 per annum from the date of receipt of payment by the 
 
 appellants/defendant nos.1 and 2. O R D E R
 
 For the reasons stated above, the appeal 

 is partly allowed. The order of injunction 
 

 passed on 21.2.2011 and confirmed on 5.4.2011, by 
 

 the Third Joint Civil Judge, Senior Division, Nagpur, 

 in Special Civil Suit No.236 of 2011 is maintained 

 subject to the condition that during the pendency of 

 the civil suit, the respondent no.1 shall renew 

 the Bank Guarantees in question, 30 days before 

 the expiry of its validity period and failure to 

 produce, the extension/renewal of validity 

 period shall result in automatically vacating 

 the order of injunction passed by the Trial 

 .....54/- 0609ao85.11.odt 54 Court, without reference to the Court. No order 

 
 as to costs. JUDGE

 
 
 BrWankhede
 
 
 
 

 ...../-