This appeal by the Revenue is against the order of Commissioner of
Income Tax (Appeals)-Jalpaiguri dated 20.02.2013. Assessment was framed
by ITO(Exemp.)-II Kolkata u/s 143(3)/13(1)(c)/13(1)(d) r.w.s.13(2)(b) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') vide his order dated
20.12.2010 for assessment year 2008-09. Grounds raised by Revenue are
reproduced below:- The inter-connected issue raised by Revenue in its appeal is as regards that
Ld. CIT(A) erred in holding that investment in the share capital of a Private
Limited Company out of income that set apart under section 11(2)(b) of the
Act does not violate the provisions of Section 11(5) of the Act. Shri S.M.Suran, Ld. Authorized Representative appearing on behalf of
assessee and Shri Rajat Kr. Kureel, Ld. Departmental Representative
appearing on behalf of Revenue. 2. The facts in brief are that the assessee in the present case is a
registered charitable society and having registration under section 12A of the
Act vide-no. 80E/209/88-89 dated 28-11-1990. The main activity of the
society is to help the artisans and handicrafts people in terms of their
enterprise development, skill and technical up-gradation so as to promote their
products in the National and International market. For achieving the desired
object of the society, the assessee made a joint venture agreement with
another association of Italy namely CTM/Altromerkato to form a Private
Limited Company with the name M/s Sasha Alteromercato (India) Pvt. Ltd. For
this purpose, the assessee sought the permission from Government of India,
Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs which was accorded on
dated 24.1.2005 viz-a-viz for equity participation up to Rs. 50 lacs in the
capital of the company. Accordingly, the society and the association acquired
the shares of the company in the agreed ratio. The assessee made its
representatives as Director in the private limited company and these
representatives were directors in the company without any shareholdings. The
society (assessee) acquired 1 lac shares @ Rs. 10.00 per share, total value
Rs. 10 lacs. During assessment proceedings, Assessing Officer found that the ITA No.914/Kol/2013 A.Y. 2008-09 DIT(E)- Kol. v. Sasha Asso. For Craft Products. Page 3

investment of Rs. 10 lacs made by the assessee in the company is in
contravention of the provisions of Section 11(5) of the Act and amounts to
violation of the provision of Section 13(1)(d) of the Act. Accordingly the AO
issued show cause notice to the assessee for the withdrawal of the exemption u/s 11 of the Act. In compliance thereto the assessee submitted that 1) The purpose to form a private Limited company by way to joint venture
 is to help the artisans and craftsmen by getting them good remuneration
 for their work of art and craft in the national and international market. 2) By way of this joint venture it was possible to have the perfect
 knowledge about the requirement and information regarding the design
 of the product and reasonable pricing of the product in foreign market. 3) The directors of the company Shri P.S. Chawla and Smt. Roop Mehta
 are the representative of the society and they have no substantial
 interest in the company so there is no violation of section 13(2)(h) of the
 Act. 2.1 However the AO disregarded the plea of the assessee by holding that
as per the provisions of section 13(3) of the Act the company is an interested
person to the assessee Society. As per section 13(2)(h) of the Act the
exemption benefit u/s 11 of the Act will not be available to the society if any
fund is invested for any period during the previous year in any concern in
which any person referred to in sub section 13(3) has a substantial interest.
So there is a clear violation of the provisions of section 13(1)(d) r.w.s 13(2)(h)
of the Act. Accordingly the exemption benefit u/s 11 of the Act was denied to
the assessee. 3. Matter was carried before the First Appellate Authority, wherein various
contentions were raised on behalf of the assessee and having considered the
same the Ld CIT(A) deleted the addition made by the AO on the issue by
observing as under : 4. Before us Ld. DR submitted that the assessee has violated the
provisions of Section 11(5) of the Act and therefore the benefit of Section 11 shall not be available to the assessee, as it is, prohibited as per the provisions
of Section 13(1)(d)(iii) . On the other hand, Ld. AR has taken the stand that as
per Section 11(4) of the Act property held under assessee-trust includes
business undertaking and benefits of income exemption u/s 11 of the Act will
be equally applied to such undertaking if the business is incidental to the
attainment of objective of the trust and separate books of accounts are
maintained in respect of such business as per section 11(4A) of the Act. The
Ld. AR further submitted that in the instant case the provision of section
13(1)(d)(iii) shall not be applied as per the proviso attached to this section
which allows such investment if made out of profit and gains. 5. We have heard rival contentions and perused the materials available on
record. Before us both the parties relied on the orders of Authorities Below as
favourable to them. From the facts of the case, we find that AO disallowed the
exemption benefit available to the assessee in Section 11 of the Act for the ITA No.914/Kol/2013 A.Y. 2008-09 DIT(E)- Kol. v. Sasha Asso. For Craft Products. Page 5

reason that the investment made by the assessee in the shares of the Private
Limited Company is in contravention of the provisions of that Section 11(5) of
the Act. However the Ld CIT(A) granted the relief to the assessee on the
ground that the investment in share capital was made in the assessment year
2005-06 and the exemption benefit has not been denied in the earlier
assessment years also and subsequent assessment year 2009-10 so there is
consistency in claiming the exemptions benefit u/s 11 of the Act. Now the
question before us arises whether the investment made in the share capital of
a Private Limited Company by the assessee is against the provision of Section
11(5) of the Act. At this juncture, it is important to reproduce the relevant provisions of section
13 of the Act which reads as under : DIT(E)- Kol. v. Sasha Asso. For Craft Products. Page 6

 (B) Shares prescribed as a form or mode of investment under clause (xii) of
 sub-section (5) of section 11 , are held by the trust or institution after the
 30th

 Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply in relation to - (i) Any assets held by the trust or institution where such assets form
 part of the corpus of the trust or institution as on the 1st day of June,
 1973; (ia) any accretion to the shares, forming part of the corpus mentioned in
 clause (i), by way of bonus shares allotted to the trust or institution;] (ii) Any assets (being debentures issued by, or on behalf of, any
 company or corporation) acquired by the trust or institution before
 the 1std day of march, 1983; [(iia) any asset, not being an investment or deposit in any of the forms or
 modes specified in sub-section (5) of section 11 , where such asset is not
 held by the trust or institution, otherwise than in any of the forms or modes
 specified in sub-section (5) of section 11 , after the expiry of one year from
 the end of the previous year in which such asset is acquired or the 31st day
 of march, [1993], whichever is later;] (iii) Any funds representing the profits and gains of business, being
 profits and gains of any previous year relevant to the assessment
 year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1984 or any subsequent
 assessment year. Explanation.- Where the trust or institution has any other income in
 addition to profits and gains of business, the provisions of clause (iii) of
 this proviso shall not apply unless the trust or institution maintains
 separate books of account in respect of such business.]

5.1 From the proviso we find that investment in shares in a Private Limited
Company if made out of the profit of business then the exemption benefit shall
not be denied to the assessee. In the instant case the assessee claimed to
have made the investment out of the fund representing the profit and gains of
assessee's business and the Ld. DR failed to bring anything on record
contrary to the point of argument of the ld. AR. Accordingly, in our considered
view, we find that there is no violation of the provisions of Section 13 of the
Act and the assessee is entitled for exemptions under section 11 of the Act.
We also find that the Private Limited Company was formed for the furtherance
of the objects of the assessee and both the societies were the shareholders in
the company. None of the Director had any substantial interest in the ITA No.914/Kol/2013 A.Y. 2008-09 DIT(E)- Kol. v. Sasha Asso. For Craft Products. Page 7

company. The members of the assessee society were the directors only in the
representative capacity in the company. Therefore, in the instant case benefit
under section 11 of the Act cannot be denied. In this connection we are also
relying in the decision of High Court of Delhi in the case of Director of Income
Tax (Exemption) vs. Acme Educational Society (2010) 326 ITR 0146 (Del)
wherein it was held that
 "we are of the opinion that interest-free loan of Rs. 90,50,000 given by
 the assessee-society to Nav Bharti Educational Society does not violate
 s. 13(1)(d) r/w s. 11(5) of Act, 1961 as the said loan was neither an
 "investment" nor a "deposit". This is more so as both the societies had
 similar objects and were registered under s. 12A of Act, 1961 and had
 approvals under s. 80G of the Act, 1961. The fact that the loan was
 interest-free and had been subsequently returned is also significant. In
 view of the order passed by the CIT(A) in the case of Nav Bharati
 Educational Society, Ms. Bansal's allegation with regard to "entry scam" Similarly, we also find that the assessee has been claiming the exemptions
benefit under section 11 of the Act for the last several years but the same was
not denied therefore in our view principle of consistency should be applied in
the instant case. In this connection we are relying in the decision of Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of Radhasoami Satsang vs. Commissioner of
Income Tax (1992) 193 ITR 0321 (SC)
 "We are aware of the fact that, strictly speaking, res judicata does not
 apply to IT proceedings. Again, each assessment year being a unit,
 what is decided in one year may not apply in the following year but
 where a fundamental aspect permeating through the different
 assessment years has been found as a fact one way or the other and
 parties have allowed that position to be sustained by not challenging the
 order, it would not be at all appropriate to allow the position to be
 changed in a subsequent year. One these reasoning, in the absence of any material change justifying
 the Revenue to take a different view of the matter-and, if there was no
 change, it was in support of the assessee-we do not think the question
 should have been reopened and contrary to what had been decided by
 the CIT in the earlier proceedings, a different and contradictory stand
 should have been taken. We are, therefore, of the view that these ITA No.914/Kol/2013 A.Y. 2008-09 DIT(E)- Kol. v. Sasha Asso. For Craft Products. Page 8

 appeals should be allowed and the question should be answered in the
 affirmative, namely, that the Tribunal was justified in holding that the
 income derived by the Radhasoami Satsang was entitled to exemption
 under ss. 11 and 12 of the IT Act of 1961." After analyzing the provisions of the Act and different decisions of the Hon'ble
courts, we find that the investment made by the assessee in the aforesaid
Private Limited Company is out of the profit and gains of its business and
same was made for achieving the objects of the assessee-society. In this view
of the matter we find no infirmity in the order of Ld. CIT(A), hence, we uphold
the order of Ld. CIT(A). The grounds raised by Revenue are dismissed. 6. In the result, Revenue's appeal stands dismissed. 1. अपीलाथ /Appellant-DDIT(E)-I, 5th Fl, 10B, Middleton Row, Kolkata-71 2. 	यथ /Respondent- Sasha Association for Craft Products, 1C, Chahatu Babu
 Lane, Kolkata-14 3. संब*ं धत आयकर आय-ु त / Concerned CIT Jalpaiguri 4. आयकर आय- ु त- अपील / CIT (A) Jalpaituri 5. 0वभागीय 3त3न*ध, आयकर अपील य अ*धकरण, कोलकाता / DR, ITAT, Kolkata 6. गाड7 फाइल / Guard file. By order/आदे श से,
 /True Copy/
 उप/सहायक पंजीकार
 आयकर अपील य अ*धकरण,
 कोलकाता ।