101. It will be noticed that a Constitution Bench of
 this Court in Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) (P)
 Ltd. v. Union of India [Indian Express Newspapers 4 (2018) 11 SCC 1 30 (Bombay) (P) Ltd. v. Union of India, (1985) 1 SCC 641 : It reads as follows: (Emphasis supplied)

A microfinance loan is defined to be a collateral free loan given to a

household having annual household income up to ₹3,00,000/- or

less. Therefore, the cap is at ₹3,00,000/-. These are microfinance

loans without collateral. It further clarifies that to ensure collateral-

free nature to the microfinance loan, the loan should not be linked

with a lien on the deposit account of the borrower. Therefore, the

Reserve Bank of India is clear that microfinance loans should be

collateral-free and collateral security should not be created by

marking a lien on the deposit account of the borrower. The said

definition is to be paraphrased to the so-called ambiguity that the

petitioner would project. 14. The petitioner does not come within the ambit of the

Ordinance. It is still permitted to run its business in terms of other

legislations. There is no impediment, in the subject Ordinance, for

the petitioner to make a hue and cry that all securities would stand

released in favour of the borrower. The borrower is defined;

microfinance is defined and vulnerable sections are defined.

Therefore, it is unequivocal that it is applicable only to microfinance

lending institutions for protection of borrowers who are from the

vulnerable sections of the society, inter alia. 15. The Ordinance, conceived in response to the

anguished cries of the vulnerable - farmers, women,

workers, marginalized groups inter alia seeks to rescue them

from usurious money lenders and micro finance entities who

as public knowledge and legislative record bear testament,

have wielded unconscionable recovery methods, often

driving the debtors from buoyancy of hope, to the abyss of

despair and death. The Ordinance does not traverse into the

realm of secured transactions undertaken by the regulated

entities like the petitioner, on the contrary, it carves out a 34 protective shield specifically for those trapped in the

labyrinth or unsecured micro loans extended without

collateral, targeting an annual income of Rs.3 lakhs or less,

which is clearly defined by the Reserve Bank of India, as quoted

supra. Therefore, the Ordinance has taken birth from the

womb of social justice, it nowhere depicts arbitrariness. The

grievance of the petitioner is, on the face of it, imaginary and

unacceptable. The issue is thus answered against the petitioner. 16. Therefore, the Ordinance does not suffer from any

manifest arbitrariness to declare it to be unconstitutional as is

sought by the petitioner. The purport of the Ordinance does not

touch upon the business of the petitioner for it to be aggrieved. In

view of the preceding analysis, the unmistakable inference

is, that the thread of reasonableness runs through the object

of the law. With thus being the case, the Courts must always

be loathe to strike down a measure of this kind, unless

compelled by an egregious violation of constitutional

mandates, I find none. 17. The petition wanting in merit should necessarily meet its

dismissal. It accordingly meets. The petition stands dismissed. Consequently, I.A.No.1 of 2025 also stands disposed. Sd/- (M.NAGAPRASANNA)
 JUDGE
bkp
CT:MJ