1. Learned counsel for the respondent no.6, at the

 outset, submits that the matter pertains to a Ponzi

 Scheme, since the respondent no.5, of which the

 respondent no.6 is an erstwhile Director, is a Ponzi

 Company. 2. It is submitted that the matters pertaining to Ponzi

 entities are pending for adjudication before a Division

 Bench assigned with such determination. 3. As such, it is argued that this matter should also go

 before the said Bench. It is further submitted that the e-

 auction cannot be sustained on several grounds. 2 4. Learned counsel for the SEBI submits that the

present writ petition is not concerned with any Ponzi

scheme as such but with the rights canvassed by the

petitioners. 5. It is submitted on behalf of the SEBI that in the

meantime the petitioners had approached the SEBI but

till date, the SEBI is not satisfied as to the title of the

petitioners with regard to the disputed property. 6. Upon hearing learned counsel for the parties, it

transpires that the objection raised by the respondent

no.6 is not sustainable, since there is nothing in the

present challenge with pertains to any Ponzi transaction

or Ponzi scheme at all. 7. Incidentally, since the petitioners claims to have

acquired title from respondent no.5, the said respondent

as well as respondent no.6 have been impleaded. 8. However, the veracity of the said transaction is not

directing under the scanner in the present writ petition,

which only pertains to the petitioners' stake regarding a

prima facie title in respect of the property which is sought

to be transferred by way of the impugned e-auction. 9. Insofar as the SEBI is concerned, since the SEBI

says that it is not yet satisfied with the title of the

petitioners, as claimed by the petitioners, the SEBI shall

file a brief report indicating the developments in the

meantime in the meetings held by the SEBI with the 3 petitioners, pertaining to the petitioners' effort to satisfy

the SEBI on their title. 10. Such report shall be filed, upon prior circulation of

copies among counsel, on the next returnable date. 11. However, insofar as the objection as to the

determination of this court is concerned, the same is

turned down. 12. Learned counsel for the respondent no.6 also seeks

to file an affidavit disclosing the properties standing in

the name of the respondent no.5. 13. The present writ petition has no nexus with the

authenticity or title of the respondent no.5-Company

regarding the properties held in the name of the

respondent no.5 as a whole. Such list of properties of

respondent no. 5 is, thus, irrelevant in the present

context. 14. The limited window of interference in the present

writ petition, if at all, is pertaining to the rights of the

petitioners prima facie, with regard to certain properties

which are a part of the subject matter of the e-auction by

the SEBI. 15. Hence, the prayer of the respondent no.6 for filing

affidavit disclosing the assets of respondent no.5 is also

refused, having no nexus with the adjudication of the

present writ petition. 16. Affidavits in connection with the main writ petition

are not being directed at this stage, since, in view of most

of the documents being already on record as annexures to

the writ petition, the question of filing affidavits does not

arise at this premature stage. 17. The matter shall next be listed under the same

heading on September 12, 2023. (Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya, J.)