The present petition has been filed seeking grant of bail

 under Section 439 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973, for

 grant of regular bail on behalf of the bail-petitioner in case FIR

 No. 99 of 2023 dated 11.04.2023 under Section 302 read with Section 34 of IPC at Police Station Baddi, Solan, H.P. 2. The deceased, in the case at hand is one Devinder Kumar.

 The informant is the father of the deceased i.e. one Sh.

 Mahender Singh. On 11.04.2023 in response to a telephonic call

 received from Panchayat Pradhan, Mahender Singh went to

 Malpur NH. There, they found dead body of his son Devinder 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? 2 Kumar. On the dead body of the deceased there were beating

marks. 3. During investigation, it transpired that the present bail-

petitioner alongwith his accomplice has taken Devinder Kumar

from Krishnpura to Nanoval side in Vehicle No. HP12N-1755

(swift car). There they had beaten the deceased with fists.

Subsequent thereto, they had brought the deceased to Labour

Chowk, Baddi. 4. It is alleged that Rakesh Kumar had purchased Bamboo

sticks at Chakka Road Baddi. Thereafter, the bail-petitioner and

Rakesh Kumar took the deceased towards NH Malpur. They

stopped their vehicle near canter union and here again started

beating the deceased severely with Bamboo sticks. 5. They then had offloaded the deceased at NH 105 Malpur in

front of the Petrol Pump. After dumping the dead body they left

in the same vehicle. Devinder Kumar died of the beatings given

by the bail-petitioner and his accomplice. 6. It is the case of the prosecution that the deceased used to

send vulgar messages to Rakesh Kumar and his sister. The

deceased had hacked an Instgram ID of Rakesh Kumar. 7. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused

the record. 8. The offence, in the case at hand, is grave in nature,

punishment-severe, therefore, the entire evidence needs to be

examined. From a perusal of the evidence collected by the

prosecution, in the case at hand, it is evident that the same is

circumstantial. 9. In so far as the bail-petitioner is concerned , the case of the

prosecution is primarily that bail petitioner was last seen with

both, deceased and his accomplice -Rakesh Kumar. In this

context, I have perused the record pertaining to the bail petitioner

meeting Rakesh Kumar, his accomplice at the shop of Pawan

Kumar at 5:30 PM. It is alleged that the bail petitioner had met

his accomplice at the shop of Pawan Kumar at 5:30 PM. There

exist CCTV footage of Pawan Kumar's shop but the same

pertains prior to 5:00 PM. 10. Other than the aforesaid, I have gone through the

statements of Pawan Kumar. Initially Pawan Kumar had made a

statement on 16.04.2023. Conspicuous by absence in the said

initial statement made is any reference of a talk on the phone

inter se Pawan Kumar and other accomplice. Subsequently, the

CDR of the accused-petitioner was obtained. Thereafter, the

second statement of Pawan Kumar was recorded on 01.05.2023,

wherein specific call details qua the conversation and nature of 4 talk inter se the bail petitioner and Pawan Kumar, have been

mentioned. 11. Besides the aforesaid, I have examined the call detail

reports of the deceased, bail petitioner and the co-accomplice

Rakesh Kumar. The same have been examined, as it has been

alleged that all three were together for most of the period post

7:00 PM till around 10:20 PM. 12. During investigation, it is alleged that co-accomplice

Rakesh Kumar had purchased two bamboo sticks from the shop

of Pappu Khan at 9:00 PM. The mobile tower location of Rakesh

Kumar and the bail petitioner at 9:00 PM, when he makes the

purchase of the bamboo sticks, is not the same. Besides the

aforesaid, the SFSL Report and DNA report have been

examined in detail. 13. At the time of deciding a bail application, a detailed

discussion of evidence, so collected and produced by the

prosecution is to be avoided as it may cause prejudice either to

the case of the prosecution or to the case of the bail petitioner. 14. Personal liberty is a very precious fundamental right. The

same is to be curtailed only when it becomes imperative,

according to the peculiar facts and circumstances of each case. 15. Punishment begins after conviction. Every man is deemed

to be innocent until duly tried and duly found guilty. The 5 consequences of pre- trial incarceration are grave. A person

presumed innocent is subjected to psychological and physical

deprivations of jail. Further, a jailed individual is prevented from

contributing to the preparation of his defence. 16. Petitioner is resident of Village Seri, Post Office & Tehsil

Nalagarh, District Solan, H.P. The respondent-State has not

expressed any apprehension regarding his fleeing from the

course of justice and adversely affecting the trial. In any case,

the petitioner can be put to terms for the purposes of safe,

secure and unobstructed completion of trial. 17. After going through the material available on record and

considering the overall facts and circumstances of the case, this

Court finds that the present is a fit case where judicial discretion

to admit the petitioner on bail is required to be exercised in his

favour. 18. In view of the aforesaid, the instant petition is allowed and

the petitioner is enlarged on bail in FIR No. 99 of 2023 dated

11.04.2023 under Section 302 read with Section 34 of IPC at

Police Station Baddi, Solan, H.P. subject to his furnishing

personal bond in the sum of Rs. 50,000/-with one local surety in

the like amount to the satisfaction of the learned trial Court

having jurisdiction over the concerned Police Station, subject to

the following conditions:- Petitioners shall furnish details of his Aadhar Cards,
 Telephone Numbers, Emails, PAN Cards, Bank
 Accounts Numbers, if any. 19. Needless to say that the Investigating agency shall be at

liberty to move this Court for cancellation of the bail, if any of the

aforesaid conditions is violated by the petitioner. 20. Be it stated that any expression of opinion given in this

order does not mean an expression of opinion on the merits of the

case and the trial Court will not be influenced by any observations

made therein. 21. The Registry is directed to forward a soft copy of the bail

order to the Superintendent, Kanda Jail, District Shimla, H.P., through

email, with a direction to enter the date of grant of bail in the e-prison

software. 22. In case, the petitioner is not released within a period of

seven days from the date of grant of bail, the Superintendent, Kanda

Jail, Shimla, District Shimla, H.P., is directed to inform this fact to the 7 Secretary, DLSA Solan, H.P. The Superintendent, Sub Jail Kanda,

 District Jail H.P., is further directed that if the petitioner fails to furnish

 the bail bonds, as per the order passed by this Court, within a period

 of one month from today, the said fact be submitted to this Court. 23. The petition stands accordingly disposed of. A copy of this order

 be sent to the Superintendent, Sub Jail Kanda, District Shimla, H.P.

 and the learned trial Court by FASTER. 24. A downloaded copy of this order shall be accepted by the

 learned Trial Court while accepting the bail bonds from the petitioner

 and in case, said Court intends to ascertain the veracity of the

 downloaded copy of the order presented to it, same may be

 ascertained from the official website of this Court. (Bipin Chander Negi)
 Judge

November 20, 2024
 (Nisha) Digitally signed by VANDNA SHARMA Date: 2024.11.21 09:56:18 IST