As per Nandita Dubey, J.: 2. It is undisputed that the deceased and the

accused persons are resident of the same village and

on 14.04.2017, the family of the deceased as well as

the accused Bhagwani had gone to attend the Chowk 3 ceremony at the house of one Anil Maravi. It is also

undisputed that in the early morning of 15.04.2017,

both the accused had gone to the house of Jaipal

(PW.9) asking for liquor, and when the mother of

accused-appellant Bhagwani came there, they went

away. It is also an admitted fact that the deceased

had gone to the house of accused Satish to keep

blanket and shawl. 3. The prosecution case, in nut shell, is that in the

intervening night of 14.04.2017 and 15.04.2017, the

accused kidnapped the deceased who was aged 11

years and after committing gang rape on her,

throttled her to death. It is alleged that on

14.04.2017 at around 9 PM, the deceased, aged 11

years had gone with her parents to attend the chowk

ceremony, from where she went missing . She was last

seen going to the house of accused Satish to keep

blanket and shawl. Her father Brajlal (PW.2) and

mother Kalawati (PW.1) searched for her all through

the night, but their efforts were rendered futile. At 5

AM on next morning i.e.15.04.2017 her dead body

was ultimately found lying near a hand pump situated

near the road. Her slacks were drawn below the knee

and there were injuries and scratches on the neck and

different parts of body of deceased, her genitals were 4 blood soaked. It was suspected that between 11 PM

to 4 AM some unknown person has kidnapped the

deceased and committed the heinous offence of rape

and after silencing her dumped the body near the

hand pump. On the basis of this report, Marg was

recorded and FIR was registered against unknown

persons at Crime No.39/2017. 4. During the investigation,from the statements of

witnesses recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C, it

transpired that the accused persons who were

absconding from the village had a verbal altercation

with Brajlal, a day prior to the incident. The accused

were taken into custody on suspicion of being involved

in the horrendous crime. Thereafter, based on their

memorandum, button and blood stained soil, packet of

kurkure, etc. were seized from the spot vide Ex.P/8.

Spot map (Ex.P/13) of the place of occurrence was

made. 5. On the memorandum of accused Satish, a shawl

and blood stained blanket of the deceased as well as

shirt, full pant and dhoti were recovered vide Ex.P/11.

On the disclosure statement of accused Bhagwani,

one shirt with some missing button, blood stained vest

and jeans were seized vide Ex.P/12. 6. Pursuant to the investigation, both the accused 5 were charge sheeted and put to trial for the offences

punishable under Sections 363 ,366-A, 364 , 346 ,376D,

376A in the alternate under Sections 302 / 201 of the

IPC and Section 5(m)(g) read with Section 6 of the

Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,2012. 7. The trial Court, after meticulous consideration of

the material on record had concluded that the chain of

circumstances has been established beyond any

reasonable doubt and found that the accused

committed the heinous offence of gang rape and

murder of the deceased. The trial Court found both

the accused guilty on each count and sentenced them

to various terms of imprisonment, but so far as

offence punishable under Section 376 A and 302 of

IPC, the trial Court awarded capital punishment,

hence this reference for confirmation of death

sentence and appeal by accused-appellants Bhagwani

and Satish. 8. The case of prosecution entirely hinges on

circumstantial evidence. When a case rests on

circumstantial evidence, the Court has to be satisfied

that the circumstances from which an inference of

guilt is sought to be drawn, must be cogently and

firmly established. The circumstances, taken

cumulatively, should also form a chain so complete 6 that there is no escape from the conclusion that

within all human probability the crime was committed

by the accused and none else . We have, therefore, to

see whether the prosecution has been able to

establish the chain of circumstances connecting the

accused persons to the crime. 9. Relying on the principles enunciated in Hanumant Vs. State of M.P. (AIR 1952 SC 343),

the supreme Court in the case of Sharad

Birdhichand Sarda Vs. State of Maharashtra AIR

1984 SC 1622 had laid down five golden principles,

which must be fulfilled before a case against an

accused can be said to be fully established, as under : (1) the circumstances from which the
 conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be
 fully established. It may be noted here that this Court indicated
 that the circumstances concerned 'must or
 should' and not 'may be' established. There is
 not only a grammatical but a legal distinction
 between 'may be proved' and 'must be or
 should be proved' as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade & Anr. v. State of
 Maharashtra (1973) 2 SCC 793, where the
 following observations were made: (2) The facts so established should be
 consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt
 of the accused, that is to say, they should not
 be explainable on any other hypothesis except
 that the accused is guilty. hypothesis except the one to be proved, and

 (5) there must be a chain of evidence so
 complete as not to leave any reasonable
 ground for the conclusion consistent with the
 innocence of the accused and must show that
 in all human probability the act must have
 been done by the accused. 10. Similar is the observations made by the Apex

Court in the decisions rendered in Raja alias Rajinder vs. State of Haryana (2015) 11 SCC 43

and in Nizam and another vs. State of Rajasthan (2016)1 SCC 550. 11. Keeping the aforesaid settled legal principles in

mind, we have examined the prosecution evidence

adduced in the case in hand. The facts in the case

indicate that the deceased was aged about 11 years

on the date of incident. On the age of girl there was

some dispute. Parents of deceased, Kalawati (PW.1)

and Brajlal (PW.2) have stated that their daughter 8 was 11 years' old at the time of incident. As per the

admission register (Ex.P/16C), date of birth of the

deceased was 06.04.2006 which was duly proved by

Surendra Kumar (PW.7), Headmaster of the Primary

School,Gunjhiyari, hence, it is clearly established that

on the date of incident the deceased was aged 11

years. 12. Basis of the prosecution case was that both the

accused persons were seen at the "chowk ceremony",

and the deceased was last seen going to the house of

accused Satish. The prosecution has examined five

witnesses; viz; Kalawati (PW.1) mother of the

deceased, Ashok Kumar (PW.3), Chainsingh (PW.4),

Bhagat Singh (PW.5) and Jaipal (PW.9) in this regard. 13. A careful examination of statements of Kalawati

(PW.1), Ashok Kumar (PW.3), Chainsingh (PW.4) and

Bhagat Singh (PW.5) show that both the accused were

present at the house of Anil Maravi on the date of

incident. Both Kalawati (PW.1) and Bhagat Singh

(PW.5) have clearly stated that the deceased had gone

to appellant Satish's house to keep a blanket and

shawl. Chainsingh (PW.4) who runs a shop near the

house of Anil Maravi, has stated that the deceased

came to his shop for purchase of kurkure carrying a

blanket and shawl and thereafter accused Bhagwani 9 came to his shop asking for Namkeen. Though

accused Satish in his 313 Cr.P.C .examination has

denied going to Anil Maravi's house, but in reply to

question no.47 put to him under Section 313 Cr.P.C.

examination has admitted that deceased had come to

his house to keep the blanket and shawl. In view of

this specific admission by accused Satish, it is clearly

established that the deceased was last seen in his

company. Appellant Bhagwani also admitted going to

the shop of Chainsingh (PW.4) for "Namkeen" in reply

to the Question no. 42. 14. Jaipal (PW.9) had testified that in the morning on

15.04.2017, both the accused came to his house

asking for liquor. However, when Bhagwani's mother

Munnibai came there, both of them went away. He has

clearly stated that at the relevant time eyes of the

accused were red and their hair were disheveled.

They sounded very nervous and had stated that big

blunder had been committed by them. Thereafter,

about half an hour the dead body of deceased was

recovered. 15. It is pertinent to note that both the accused have

corroborated the statement of Jaipal (PW.9) in their Section 313 Cr.P.C.examination. Both of them have

admitted that they had gone to the house of Jaipal and 10 when mother of Bhagwani came there, they went

away. 16. Accused Bhagwani had also admitted that at that

time his eyes were red and hair were disheveled. Both

the accused have admitted that they were together

since 9 AM in the morning of 14.04.17 when they had

gone to Sudgaon for working, from where they

returned in the evening. Accused Satish had stated

that he had gone to his house and accused Bhagwani

went to attend the chowk ceremony. Accused

Bhagwani in his 313 Cr.P.C .examination has admitted

that after coming back, both he and Satish had taken

liquor with Hemsingh and Moolchand and thereafter

Satish went to his house and he went to the house of

Anil Maravi, from where due to his intoxicated

condition he was asked to leave. Thereafter, he went

to the shop of Chainsingh (PW.4) from where his

mother took him to home and he went to sleep at the

house of his neighbour Deepa, which is highly

improbable. 17. The object of Section 313 Cr.P.C.is to empower

the Court to examine the accused after evidence of

the prosecution has been taken so as to give an

opportunity to the accused to explain the

circumstances which may intend to incriminate them. 11 In the instant case, accused Bhagwani was examined

in the Court on 27.09.2017 by the Sessions Judge,

Dindori , the relevant portion of which reads as

follows :- 18. It is settled law that the answers given by the 13 accused persons under Section 313 Cr.P.C.can be used

for proving their guilt as much as the evidence given

by the prosecution witnesses. The Supreme Court in

the case of Mohan Singh vs. Prem Singh and

another (2002) 10 SCC 236 has held that the

statements made in defence by the accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C.can certainly be taken aid of to

lend credence to the evidence led by the prosecution,

but only a part of such statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C.cannot be made the sole basis of his conviction. 19. The answers given by accused Bhagwani and

Satish to above referred questions, while examining

them under Section 313 Cr.P.C., fully corroborate the

evidence of Kalawati (PW.1), Ashok Kumar (PW.3),

Chain Singh (PW.4), Bhagat Singh (PW.5)and Jaipal

(PW.9) . Though accused Bhagwani had stated that his

mother took him home from shop of Chain Singh

(PW.4) and thereafter he went to sleep at this

neighbour Deepa's house, he has not examined her as

witness to prove his alibi nor explained at what time

he again joined the company of accused Satish to go

to Jailpal's (PW.9) house at early hours of 15.04.2017. 20. Dr. Sajjan Kumar Uike (PW.6) who performed the

postmortem found the following injuries :- The doctor gave the opinion that cause of death

of deceased was due to asphyxia with neurogenic

shock due to injuries over the vital organ of the body

neck, vagina and anal area. The injuries caused may

be due to throttling and forceful sexual intercourse.

The autopsy report, thus, establishes her death to be

homicidal. 21. Accused persons were also examined by Dr. Vijay

Pegwar (PW.11) who found the following injuries on 15 their person vide Ex. P/21 and P/22 :- 3 days, heals in 2-3 days, all are simple in nature.
 Injury report of Bhagwani (i) Abrasion linear 1" on left upper shoulder. (ii) Linear abrasion size 1/2" on left lower scapulary
 region. (iii) Liner abrasion size 1/2" on lower lumber region. (iv) Linear abrasion size 1/2" on right scapulary region. (v) Linear abrasion size 2" on right upper shoulder. (vi) Abrasion size 1 cm x 1 cm on right cheek. (vii) Abrasion size 1 cm x 1 cm on right upper parietal
 region. (viii) Abrasion linear 4" each on right lower lateral rib,
 all are caused by hard and rough object (may be nails),
 duration within 2-3 days, heals within 2-3 days, all are
 simple in nature." 22. The clothes found on the body of deceased along

with the vaginal slides, rectal slides, sample of dry

clotted blood were duly seized. Along with the blood

sample of the accused persons, the seized articles

were forwarded to the State Forensic Laboratory for

chemical examination and corresponding reports were

obtained. The DNA report (Ex.P/25) reads as under :- 23. The DNA profile generated from the slides of

deceased matched with DNA profile generated from

the blood sample of Satish, blood stained dhoti ,

underwear recovered at his behest. DNA profile

generated from the blood sample and clothes of

accused Satish recovered at his behest and consistent

with that of the deceased is an unimpeachable

evidence incriminating accused Satish in the

occurrence. 24. However, the DNA profile of accused Bhagwani

did not match with the DNA profile observed from the

source of deceased. But, the admission by accused

Bhagwani that he was together with accused Satish in

the evening and had liquor with him, his further

admission that he went to the shop of Chain Singh

(PW.4) asking for Namkeen coupled with lack of

explanation by accused Bhagwani about scratches on 17 his body and their admission about being together on

14.04.2017 and his going with accused Satish to

Jaipal's house asking for liquor in the early morning of

15.04.2017, in their Section 313 Cr.P.C.statements,

provide a firm link in the chain of circumstances. The

accused Bhagwani has failed miserably in discharging

his burden of proving that the was not in the company

of accused Satish during the commission of crime.

Further, the testimony of Chainsingh (PW.4) and

Jaipal (PW.9) firmly establishes the commission of

crime by the accused persons. 25. Apart from this, disclosure statements of

accused persons before the police relating to recovery

of buttons and blood stained soil from the place of

occurrence which was exclusively within the

knowledge of the accused and the recovery of shawl

and blanket of deceased from the house of accused

Satish, and shirt, jeans, sando baniyan from accused

Bhagwani, in pursuant to their memorandum which

was duly proved by the seizure witnesses Ashok

Kumar (PW.3) and Bhagat Singh (PW.5), and the DNA

report makes the chain of circumstances complete in

every respect, consequently leading to the conclusion

that the accused were responsible for sexually assault

and murdering the deceased. It is, thus, clear that the 18 evidence adduced by the prosecution formed a chain

so complete that it excluded any hypothesis other

than the guilt of the accused persons. 26. In view of the aforestated reasons, we do not

see any cogent reason to interfere with the judgment

of trial Court regarding conviction of accused

Bhagwani and Satish. 27. The contention of learned counsel that the case

be remanded for retrial as the accused belong to

lower strata of the society were not given proper legal

assistance and the defence lawyer did not effectively

cross-examine the prosecution witnesses, sans merit. 28. The Supreme Court in Ashok Debbarma alias Achak Debbarma vs. State of Tripura (2014) 4

SCC 747 has observed thus :- 38. Right to get proper legal assistance plays a
crucial role in adversarial system, since access to
counsel's skill and knowledge is necessary to accord
the accused an ample opportunity to meet the case
of the prosecution. In Strickland v. Washington, 80 L
Ed 2d 674, the US Court held that a convicted
defendant alleging ineffective assistance of counsel
must show not only that counsel was not functioning
as the counsel guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment
so as to provide reasonable effective assistance, but
also that counsel's errors were so serious as to
deprive the defendant of a fair trial. Court held that
the defiant convict should also show that because of
a reasonable probability, but for counsel's
unprofessional errors, the results would have been
different. The Court also held as follows: 39. The Court, in determining whether prejudice
resulted from a criminal defence counsel's
ineffectiveness, must consider the totality of the
evidence. When an accused challenges a death
sentence on the ground of prejudicially ineffective 20 representation of the counsel, the question is
 whether there is a reasonable probability that,
 absent the errors, the Court independently
 reweighing the evidence, would have concluded that
 the balance of aggravating and mitigating
 circumstances did not warrant the death sentence. " 31. In view of the finding recorded in the

postmortem examination report of the deceased duly

proved by Dr.Sajjan Kumar Uike (PW.6),there was no

justification not to hold the accused persons guilty of

offence punishable under Section 377 of IPC. The trial

Court has clearly committed an error in this regard. 32. The Supreme Court in several judgments has

awarded capital punishment where rape and murder

have been committed on a minor girl, after striking a

balance between the aggravating and mitigating

circumstances. Several other facts like the young age

of the accused, the possibility of reformation, etc.

have also been gone into with judicial mind. 33. With regard to the quantum of sentence, the trial

Court in order of sentence, has noticed the well

settled principles laid down by the Supreme Court in Bachan Singh vs. State of Punjab (1980) 2 SCC

684, Machhi Singh and others vs. State of 22 Punjab (1983) 3 SCC 470, Dhananjoy Chatterjee

alias Dhana vs. State of West Bengal (1994) 2

SCC 220, Jai Kumar vs. State of M.P. (1999) 5

SCC 1, and Mukesh and others vs. State for NCT

of Delhi and others (Criminal Appeal No. 609-

610/2017 judgment dated 05.05.2017). Further,

on considering the aggravating and mitigating

circumstances present in the case has observed that

the accused have committed heinous offence in a pre-

planned and meticulous manner and considering the

merciless manner in which the deceased was

kidnapped, raped and thereafter done to death found

the case to be in the category of "rarest of the rare" 34. In the case of Dhaanjoy Chatterjee (supra) it

has been noticed that the trial Court has dealt with

the case of rape and murder of a young girl aged

about 18 years by the security guard. The Supreme

Court opined that a real and abiding concern for the

dignity of human life is required to be kept in mind by

the Courts while considering the confirmation of the

sentence of death. Para 15 of the judgment is

reproduced as below :- 35. The Supreme Court in Purushottam Dashrath

Borate and another vs. State of Maharashtra reported in (2015) 6 SCC 652, while confirming the

death sentence, has held that the age of accused or

family background or lack of criminal antecedents

cannot be said to be a mitigating circumstance. It

cannot also be considered as a mitigating

circumstance, particularly taking into consideration

the nature of heinous offence, the brutality and the

calculated manner in which it was committed by the

accused persons. 36. In Satya Narayan Tiwari Alias Jolly and

another vs. State of Uttar Pradesh (2010) 13

SCC 689 and Sukhdev Singh and another vs.

State of Punjab (2010) 13 SCC 656 , the Supreme

Court has held that crime against women are not

ordinary crimes committed in a fit of anger or for 24 property. They are social crimes. They disrupt the

entire social fabric and hence they call for harsh

punishment. 37. In Mukesh vs. State (NCT of Delhi ) (2017) 6

SCC 1, the Apex Court for conferring the death

penalty reiterated the grounds which weighed with

the court in the case of Shankar Kisanrao Khade

vs. State of Maharashtra (2013) 5 SCC 546 as

below :- State of M.P. (1999) 5 SCC 1, State of U.P. v. Satish (2005) 3
 SCC 114, Bantu v. State of U.P. ( 2008) 11 SCC 113, Ankush
 Maruti Shinde v. State of Maharashtra (2009) 6 SCC 667,
 B.A. Umesh v. State of Karnataka (2011) 3 SCC 85, Mohd.
 Mannan v. State of Bihar ( 2011) 5 SCC 317 and Rajendra
 Pralhadrao Wasnik v. State of Maharashtra (2012) 4 SCC 37;

 (2) the crime results in public abhorrence, shocks the
 judicial conscience or the conscience of society or the
 community (Dhananjoy Chatterjee (supra), Jai Kumar
 (supra), Ankush Maruti Shinde (supra) and Mohd. Mannan
 (supra); (3) the reform or rehabilitation of the convict is not likely or that he 25 would be a menace to society (Jai Kumar (supra), B.A. Umesh
 (supra) and Mohd. Mannan (supra) ; (4) the victims were defenceless (Dhananjoy Chatterjee (supra),
 Laxman Naik (supra), Kamta Tiwari (supra), Ankush Maruti
 Shinde (supra) , Mohd. Mannan (supra) and Rajendra Pralhadrao
 Wasnik (supra); (5) the crime was either unprovoked or that it was premeditated
 (Dhananjoy Chatterjee (supra), Laxman Naik (supra), Kamta
 Tiwari (supra), Nirmal Singh (supra), Jai Kumar (supra), Ankush
 Maruti Shinde (supra), B.A. Umesh (supra) and Mohd. Mannan
 (supra) and in three cases the antecedents or the prior history of the
 convict was taken into consideration ( Shivu v. High Court of
 Karnataka (2007) 4 SCC 713, B.A. Umesh (supra) and Rajendra
 Pralhadrao Wasnik (supra)." Further in para 516 , the Supreme Court has
observed :- 38. The President of India on 21.04.2018

promulgated an Ordinance titled "The Criminal Law

(Amendment) Ordinance, 2018, further to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, the Indian Penal 26 Code,1860, the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,

2012 . By the Ordinance, new sections 376 AB, 376 DA

and 376 DB have been inserted after Section 376A,

and Section 376 D of the Indian Penal Code. Section

376 DB of the IPC reads as follows :- 39. In the present factual matrix the deceased, a

helpless child of 11 years, who had gone to keep her

belongings to the house of accused Satish was

kidnapped and subsequently raped. She was also

subjected to carnal intercourse and made to suffer

untold pain and agony. The accused did not stop

there, but they strangulated her, threw her half naked

body near the road, in total disregard of the decency

and respect for a dead female body. Considering that

the deceased was an innocent child, who could not 27 have provided any excuse, much less any provocation

for committing such heinous act, coupled with the

subsequent conduct of throwing the half naked body

of the deceased in the open exhibiting their abusive

conduct, and acting normal after commission of the

crime, asking for liquor from Jaipal (PW.9) shows lack

of any remorse on their part. 40. Under the facts and circumstances of the case,

the only punishment which the accused persons

deserve for having committed the reprehensible and

gruesome murder of innocent child to satisfy their

lust, is nothing but death. We are immensely appalled

by the alarming increase in the recent incidents of

child rapes and also being aware of the rising anger of

the society over rape of minor across the country,

therefore, consider death sentence as a measure of

social necessity and also a mean of deterring other

potential offenders. 41. In view of the aforestated, in our considered

view, the capital punishment to the accused persons is

the only proper punishment and we see no reason to

take a different view than the one taken by the trial

Court. Hence, we confirm the death sentence

awarded by the trial Court to each of the accused and

resultantly dismiss the appeal preferred by the 28 appellants-accused against their conviction and

 sentence. Reference is answered accordingly. 42. Let a copy of this judgment be retained in the

 file of the connected criminal appeal. 43. Office is directed to send a copy of the judgment

 immediately to the trial Court for taking appropriate

 action, in accordance with law. Ordered accordingly.