Securities and Exchange Board of India,
 SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
 Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
 Mumbai - 400 051 2. NSE Clearing Limited
 Exchange Plaza, Plot No. C/1,
 G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex,
 Bandra (East),
 Mumbai- 400 051 3. National Stock Exchange of India Limited
 Exchange Plaza, Plot No. C/1,
 G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex,
 Bandra (East),
 Mumbai- 400 051 4. Allied Financial Services Private Limited
 304-305, Vikas Deep Laxmi,
 District Center, Vikas Marg,
 New Delhi- 110 092 5. Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited
 11th and 12th Floors, Hansalaya Building,
 15, Barakhamba Road,
 New Delhi- 110 001 6. Novjoy Emporium Private Limited
 2, Rupchand Mukherjee Lane,
 Kolkata- 700 025 ...Respondents 2 Mr. Gaurav Joshi, Senior Advocate with Ms. Shruti Rajan,
Ms. Garima Joshi, Mr. Aditya Sikka, Mr. Rushin Kapadia and
Mr. Vishnu Sumanth, Advocates i/b Cyril Amarchand
Mangaldas for the Appellant. Mr. Rafique Dada, Senior Advocate with Mr. Sushant Yadav,
Mr. Nirav Parmar and Mr. Tabish Mooman, Advocates i/b K. Ashar & Co. for Respondent No. 1 Mr. Jitendra Motwani, Advocate with Mr. Vivek Shah, Advocate i/b ELP for Respondent No. 2 Mr. Rashid Boatwalla, Advocate with Mr. Shreya Anuwal,
Advocate i/b Manilal Kher Ambalal & Co. for Respondent No. 3 Mr. Somasekhar Sundaresan, Advocate with Ms. Yugandhara
Khanwilkar, Mr. Tomu Francis and Mr. Manish Chhangani, Advocate i/b Khaitan & Co. for Respondent No. 5 Mr. Ravi Vijay Ramaiya, Chartered Accountant with Ms. Tanvi
Gaitonde, Advocate i/b Zerick Dastur for Respondent No. 6 None for Respondent No. 4 CORAM: Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer
 Dr. C.K.G. Nair, Member
 Justice M. T. Joshi, Judicial Member

Per: Justice Tarun Agarwala 1. The appellant is a clearing member empanelled with NSE

Clearing Limited (hereinafter referred to as "NCL"). The

appellant is a subsidiary of Infrastructure Leasing and Financial

Services Limited (hereinafter referred to as "IF&FS). The

Board of IL&FS has been superseded by members appointed by

National Company Law Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as 3 "NCLT"). Allied Financial Services Private Limited (hereinafter

referred to as "Allied") is the stock broker and a member of

National Stock Exchange of India Limited (hereinafter referred

to as "NSE"). 2. The appellant and Allied executed a 'Clearing Member-

Trading Member Agreement' dated November 14, 2017 and, in

this agreement, Allied was obligated to place the margin with

the appellant. Pursuant to this agreement, Allied provided

margins to the appellant by way of mutual fund unit's apart

from some cash, as collateral on the basis of which the appellant

was clearing the trades of Allied in Futures & Options (F&O)

Segment of the NSE. The mutual funds provided by Allied was

transferred to the appellant's demat account and, thereafter, in

the approved custodian account of NCL. 3. In December 2018, Allied sold certain Options Contracts

on NIFTY in the F&O Segment expiring on March 28, 2019

and June 27, 2019 ("Options Contracts"). It is alleged that as

consideration for selling these Options Contracts, Allied

received an upfront premium of around ` 380 crores and the

appellant was required to clear these Options Contracts using

these mutual funds. 4. Before these mutual funds could be utilized for clearing

the trades of Allied, Securities and Exchange Board of India

(hereinafter referred to as "SEBI") received an interim report

from NSE with regard to the irregularities committed by Allied.

In this report it was observed that there was non-availability of

client's funds, non-availability of client's securities, misuse of

client's funds and use of client's funds to meet proprietary

obligations by Allied. Based on this report and other

preliminary investigation, SEBI passed an ex-parte interim

order dated February 27, 2019 against Allied and other entities

issuing a slew of directions restraining Allied from accessing

the securities market and desisting Allied from any activity in

the securities market and further restraining Allied from

alienating any movable or immovable assets. The depositories

were also directed to ensure that no debits were made in their

demat accounts and the Banks were also directed that no debits

were made in their bank accounts. 5. It further transpires that the mutual funds of Novjoy

Emporium Private Limited, OCL India Limited and Dalmia

Cement East Limited were alleged to be illegally transferred by

Allied to the appellant's demat account as collateral for the

margins of Allied. It further transpires that complaint in this 5 regard was made to SEBI as well as to the Economic Offence

Wing ("EOW") and, therefore, on March 29, 2019 EOW passed

an order directing the appellant not to deal with these securities

till further orders. It was noticed that the value of these mutual

funds are to the tune of ` 344.07 crores. 6. If further transpires that the appellant filed a Writ Petition

before the Delhi High Court for setting aside of the order of the

EOW which petition is pending before the Delhi High Court. 7. The appellant also filed an application dated March 20,

2019 before SEBI praying that SEBI should protect the interests

of the appellant as it is a victim of fraud perpetuated by Allied

and also prayed that the ex-parte interim order be modified. It

was contended that in view of the freezing of the securities it

would be unjust to meet the obligations arising out of the

Options Contracts with Allied. It was further contended that the

settlement of trades have been entered into based on

fraudulently transferred collateral which is not in the interests of

the securities market and, therefore, prayed that the trades made

by Allied be annulled. It was further prayed that pending

annulment, SEBI may exempt the appellant from the said

options which is required to be squared off before March 29, 6 2019 and that the appellant may also be permitted to utilize the

collateral in accordance with the agreement entered with Allied. 8. SEBI by an order dated March 29, 2019 held that the ex-

parte interim order was passed against 11 noticees in which the

appellant is not a noticee and, therefore, the appellant has no

locus standi to apply for modification of the ex-parte interim

order. With regard to the request of the appellant from being

exempted from providing mark to market margin money SEBI

informed that the matter shall be examined by the concerned

department. SEBI also directed that the collaterals have been

frozen by the EOW and not by SEBI and, therefore, such de-

freezing is not within the purview of SEBI. On the question of

annulment of trades, SEBI directed that the appropriate

authority is the Stock Exchange in terms of SEBI Circular dated

July 16, 2015. 9. The appellant being aggrieved by the said order of SEBI

has filed the present appeal praying not only for the quashing of

the order passed by SEBI but also praying that appropriate

direction be issued for the annulment of the trade undertaken by

Allied. 10. We have heard Shri Gaurav Joshi the learned senior

counsel for the appellant and Shri Rafique Dada the learned

senior counsel for SEBI (Respondent No. 1). We have also

heard Shri Somasekhar Sundaresan the learned counsel for

Respondent No. 5 and Shri Ravi Ramaiya, Chartered

Accountant for Respondent No. 6. While no one appeared for

Respondent No. 4, no specific submissions were made on behalf

of Respondent Nos. 2 and 3. 11. The learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that

SEBI has committed a manifest error in holding that the

annulment of trades can only be considered by the Stock

Exchange and that it was not within the purview of SEBI. It

was urged that SEBI has wide powers under Section 11 and 11B of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read

with Section 12A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act,

1956 ("SCRA, 1956" for convenience) of which powers can be

used even to annul the trades. It was contended that SEBI for

reasons best known to them is abdicating it's powers in not

considering the complaint of the appellant for annulment of

trades where in a related matter ex-parte interim order has been

passed against Allied and other entities, and where Allied has

played a fraud upon the appellant. It was further contended that 8 the appellant cannot approach the Stock Exchange for

annulment of the trade since under the bye-laws made by the

Stock Exchange, only a trading member could apply for

annulment of the trades. It was contended that the appellant is

not a trading member but is only a clearing member empanelled

with NCL. It was also contended that the bye-laws of the NCL

only contemplated that the clearing corporation may annul a

deal only after the relevant authority is satisfied and contended

that the relevant authority is none other than SEBI. It was also

urged that, in any case, as per the directions issued by SEBI

vide its Circular dated July 16, 2015 only material mistakes or

erroneous orders could be annulled but where fraud or

misrepresentation has been made the annulment can only be

made by SEBI. It was also urged that because of the ex-parte

interim order, the appellant was vitally affected and, therefore,

the finding of the SEBI that the appellant had no locus standi

was manifestly erroneous in law. It was contended that the

Options Contracts of Allied which was expiring on March 28,

2019 have been squared off by the appellant and that the second

Options Contracts will expire on June 27, 2019 and therefore

proactive measures are required to be considered immediately

otherwise the appellant would become bankrupt. It was, thus,

urged that SEBI is required to be proactive and take appropriate 9 measures immediately as it is not only affecting the appellant

but the scam made by Allied will affect the securities market. 12. Shri Dada the learned senior counsel, on the other hand,

contended that the plea of the appellant for annulment of the

trades is patently misconceived as he is not a party to the

contracts. The securities which were given to the appellant as

collateral by Allied have been frozen by the EOW against which

the appellant has filed a Writ Petition where he is pursuing the

matter before the Delhi High Court. It was contended that if a

fraud has been committed by Allied the trades which Allied

have entered with counter parties cannot be annulled at the

instance of the appellant. It was urged that the appellant is

obligated to square off the trades of Allied under the Agreement

executed between the appellant and Allied. It was urged that if

a fraud has been played upon the appellant by Allied such fraud

is no ground for annulment of the trades. 13. In the light of the rival stand taken by the parties, it

becomes necessary for this Tribunal to figure out as to whether

the appellant is entitled to apply for annulment of trades. 14. Section 11 and 11B gives wide powers to SEBI (Board) to

protect the interest of investors in securities and to promote the 10 development and to regulate the securities market. Under Section 12A of the SCRA, 1956 SEBI (Board) has powers to

issue directions to any Stock Exchange, Clearing Corporation or

agencies associated with the securities market. Section 9 of the

SCRA, 1956 gives powers to the Stock Exchange to frame its

bye-laws subject to the approval of SEBI. 15. SEBI issued a Circular dated July 16, 2015 giving certain

guidelines for annulment of trades resulting from material

mistake or erroneous orders and also with regard to annulment

of trade resulting from willful misrepresentation or

manipulation of fraud. 16. The NSE framed its by-laws under Section 9 of SCRA

1956 Clause 5(a) of Chapter VII of the bye-laws relates to

annulment of trades which is extracted hereunder:- From a perusal of aforesaid provision it is clear that annulment

of a trade can either be done suo motu by the relevant authority

or on an application by a trading member. The appellant is not

a trading member and, therefore, cannot apply under the bye-

laws of the Stock Exchange. The direction of SEBI is that the 12 Stock Exchange deals with the annulment of the trades is

incorrect in so far as it relates to the appellant since he is a

clearing member and is not a trading member. 17. The appellant is however, a member of the NCL which

has also framed its bye-laws. The relevant Clause for annulment

of trades has been specified in Clause 5 of Chapter VII of the

bye-laws. For facility, the said provision is extracted

hereinunder:- 18. Relevant authority has been defined under Clause 14 of

Chapter I, which provision is extracted hereunder:- 19. The Board and Clearing Corporation have also been

defined under Clauses 1 and 5 Chapter I of the bye-laws which

are also extracted hereunder:- 20. From a perusal of the aforesaid, it is apparently clear that a

Clearing Member can apply for annulment of a "deal". In our

opinion such deal mentioned in Clause V will also include

trades done on the Exchange platform. The relevant authority to

decide the annulment of the deal would be the Board of

Directors of National Securities Clearing Corporation Limited

(now, NCL) and SEBI. Thus, the contention of SEBI in the

impugned order that it is not within its purview to consider the

request for annulment of trades is erroneous. SEBI in exercise

of powers under Section 11 , 11B of SEBI Act, 1992 read with

12A of the SCRA, 1956 has wide powers to consider a

complaint with regard to annulment of the trades. 21. However, in the given circumstances, we find that since

bye-laws have been framed by NCL in exercise of the powers

conferred under Section 9 of SCRA, 1956 therefore, in our 15 opinion, the appropriate measure is for the appellant to approach

the relevant clearing house. In our opinion, the appellant is

required to file an application under Clause 5 of Chapter VII of

the bye-laws of the National Securities Clearing Corporation

Limited for annulment of the trades. A perusal of Clause 5

makes it clear that if there is a willful misrepresentation or

material mistake or if there is fraud the relevant authority is

empowered to annul the trades. 22. In so far as the freezing of the demat account is concerned,

we are of the opinion that SEBI was justified in directing the

appellant to approach the EOW. We do not find any error in

this regard. We find that EOW has passed an order for freezing

the demat account. The appellant is already pursuing the matter

before the Delhi High Court. Thus, no order could be passed by

SEBI in this regard. 23. In the light of the aforesaid, we dispose of the matter

directing the appellant to move an appropriation application

under Clause 5 of Chapter VII of the bye-laws of National

Securities Clearing Corporation Limited (NCL). If such an

application is filed, the said Clearing Corporation will decide

the matter at the earliest after hearing all concerned parties. 16 24. Before parting, the Tribunal observes that the finding of

SEBI that the appellant had no locus standi for modification of

the ex-parte interim order is erroneous. We are of the opinion

that even though the appellant may not be a party in those

proceedings but if the appellant is affected either directly or

indirectly the appellant has a right to apply for modification of

the order. The ex-parte interim order observes that Allied has

committed various violations of SEBI bye-laws by

misappropriating clients securities which need to be returned.

Such securities were given to the appellant as collateral to

square off the trades of Allied. In our view, the appellant is an

affected party. We thus, leave it as that and hold that in the

event the appellant applies for being heard and for protection of

its interests the WTM of SEBI cannot deny the opportunity of it

being heard. Sd/- Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Sd/- Dr. C.K.G. Nair
 Member

 Sd/- Justice M. T. Joshi
 Judicial Member
15.05.2019
Prepared & Compared By: PK