Navin Kumar Tayal
 131-A, 13th Floor, NCPA Apartment,
 Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400021. 2. Sanjay Kumar Tayal 3. Jyotika Sanjay Tayal
 23-B, 2nd Floor, NCPA Apartment,
 Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400021. ..... Appellants

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Gaurav Joshi, Senior Advocate with Ms. Rishika Harish,
Mr. Aditya Bhansali, Ms. Rakshita Poddar, Mr. Suyash Bhandari,
Advocates and Ms. Nirali Mehta Practicing Company Secretary for
the Appellants. Mr. Mustafa Doctor, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia, Advocates i/b ELP for the Respondent. 2 With Appeal No. 9 of 2018 Kulwinder Kumar Nayyar
Flat No. 101-A, Shirin Co-op Housing
Society Ltd., Plot No. 15, Sector - 29,
Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400 073. ..... Appellant

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Saurabh Bachhawat, Advocate with Mr. Priyanshu Mishra,
Advocate for the Appellant. Mr. Mustafa Doctor, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia, Advocates i/b ELP for the Respondent. With Appeal No. 10 of 2018 1. Advik Textiles & Realpro Pvt. Ltd. 1st Floor, Hrishna House, Raghuvanshi Mill
 Compound, S. B. Road,
 Lower Patel (West), Mumbai - 400 013. 2. Azam Mohmmed Ahsan Shaikh
 Flat No. 101-A, Shirin Co-op Housing
 Society Ltd., Plot No. 15, Sector 29, Vashi,
 Navi Mumbai - 400703. ..... Appellants

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India 3 SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Pulkit Sharma, Advocate with Mr. Priyanshu Mishra, Advocate
for the Appellants. Mr. Mustafa Doctor, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia, Advocates i/b ELP for the Respondent. With Appeal No. 11 of 2018 Rohitkumar Premkumar Gupta
Raghuvanshi Mansion, Raghuvanshi Mills
Compound, Senapati Bapat Marg,
Lower Parel (W), Mumbai - 400013. ..... Appellant

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Pradeep Sancheti, Senior Advocate with Mr. Sukrut Mahtre,
Advocate for the Appellant. Mr. Mustafa Doctor, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia, Advocates i/b ELP for the Respondent. With Appeal No. 250 of 2020 4 1. Navin Kumar Tayal
 131-A, 13th Floor, NCPA Apartment,
 Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400021. 2. Jyotika Tayal
 23-B, 2nd Floor, NCPA Apartment, ..... Appellants
 Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400021. Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Gaurav Joshi, Senior Advocate with Ms. Rishika Harish,
Mr. Aditya Bhansali, Ms. Rakshita Poddar, Mr. Suyash Bhandari,
Advocates and Ms. Nirali Mehta Practising Company Secretary for
the Appellants. Mr. Mustafa Doctor, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia, Advocates i/b ELP for the Respondent. With Appeal No. 261 of 2020 1. Advik Textiles & Realpro Pvt. Ltd. 1st Floor, Hrishna House,
 Raghuvanshi Mill Compound,
 S. B. Road, Lower Patel (West),
 Mumbai - 400 013. 2. Azam Mohmmed Ahsan Shaikh
 Flat No. 101-A, Shirin Co-op. 5 Housing Society Ltd., Plot No. 15,
 Sector 29, Vashi,
 Navi Mumbai - 400703 ..... Appellants

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Pulkit Sharma, Advocate with Mr. Priyanshu Mishra, Advocate
for the Appellants. Mr. Mustafa Doctor, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia, Advocates i/b ELP for the Respondent. With Appeal No. 262 of 2020 Kulwinder Nayyar
Flat No. 101-A, Shirin Co-op Housing
Society Ltd., Plot No. 15, Sector - 29,
Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400 073. .. Appellant

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Saurabh Bachhawat, Advocate with Mr. Priyanshu Mishra,
Advocate for the Appellant. Mr. Mustafa Doctor, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia, Advocates i/b ELP for the Respondent. 6 With Appeal No. 263 of 2020 Rohitkumar Premkumar Gupta
Raghuvanshi Mansion, Raghuvanshi Mills
Compound, Senapati Bapat Marg,
Lower Parel (W), Mumbai - 400013. ..Appellant

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Pradeep Sancheti, Senior Advocate with Mr. Sukrut Mhatre,
Advocate for the Appellant. Mr. Mustafa Doctor, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia, Advocates i/b ELP for the Respondent.

CORAM : Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer
 Justice M. T. Joshi, Judicial Member

Per : Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer 1. There are two sets of appeals. First set are appeals Nos. 11 of

2018, 8 of 2018, 9 of 2018 and 10 of 2018 which is against the order

dated November 22, 2017 passed by the Whole Time Member

(hereinafter referred to as „WTM‟) of Securities and Exchange Board 7 of India (hereinafter referred to as „SEBI‟) by which the appellants

were restrained from buying, selling or dealing in the securities

market for a period of five years. Further, the appellants in these

appeals were directed to disgorge an amount of Rs. 95,77,614/-

alongwith interest at the rate of 12% p. a. with effect from May 27,

2010 onwards to be paid jointly and severally. The second set of

appeals are appeal Nos. 250 of 2020, 261 of 2020, 262 of 2020 and

263 of 2020 which is against the order dated May 29, 2020 passed by

the Adjudicating Officer (hereinafter referred to as „AO‟) imposing a

penalty of Rs. 3 crore to be paid by the appellants jointly and

severally. Since the facts and issues involved are common, all the

appeals are being taken up together. For facility, the facts as

enumerated in the appeal No. 11 of 2018 Rohitkumar Gupta vs. SEBI (hereinafter referred to as „Rohit Gupta‟) is being taken into

consideration. 2. SEBI conducted an investigation in the scrip of Bank of

Rajasthan for the period of May 7, 2010 to May 18, 2010 with regard

to insider trading under Securities and Exchange Board of India

(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 (hereinafter

referred to as „PIT Regulations‟). This period relates to the

discussions held between the dominant shareholders of Bank of 8 Rajasthan (hereinafter referred to as „BoR‟) and ICICI Bank Ltd.

(hereinafter referred to as „ICICI‟) with regard to the merger of the

two banks. Information of such merger was a price sensitive

information as per the Regulation 2ha(v) of the PIT Regulations.

The investigations further revealed that merger talks were going on

between the two banks since February 2010 but the discussion broke

down on May 6, 2010 and was again revived on May 7, 2010 which

ultimately led to the execution of a binding agreement dated May 18,

2010 between the parties. 3. Based on the investigation, an impounding order dated January

5, 2016 was issued by the WTM directing the appellants not to divert

any unlawful gains arising out of the trades executed in violation of

PIT Regulations. One of the noticees / appellants, namely, noticee

No. 5 Advik Textiles and Realpro Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as

„Advik Texiles‟) filed an appeal before this Tribunal which was

disposed of by an order dated October 11, 2017 directing SEBI to

pass a final order within six weeks. 4. In view of the above, a show cause notice dated October 18,

2017 was issued to all the appellants. The show cause notice alleged

that Pravin Tayal and Sanjay Tayal were the dominant shareholders

in BoR and were associated from the very beginning in the 9 discussions on the merger of the BoR with ICICI. The discussions

were being held from February 2010 and were again resumed with

effect from May 7, 2010. The respondent have taken the

Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (UPSI) period from May 7,

2010 to May 18, 2010 till 05:12:24 p.m. It was alleged that on May

18, 2010 at 4:30 a.m. in the morning and after several rounds of

discussions from May 7, 2010 onwards, a Binding Implementation

Agreement dated May 18, 2010 was entered between Pravin Tayal

and Sanjay Tayal with ICICI to procure cooperation and support of

shareholders in order to give effect to the proposed merger in terms

of Section 44A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The BoR

informed the Stock Exchange on May 18, 2010 at 17:12:24 hours to

the effect that the Board of Directors were to convene urgently on the

same date for considering the proposed merger. 5. It was alleged that the appellant Rohit Gupta purchased

1,40,000 shares of BoR on 17th and 18th May 2010 for

Rs. 1,28,77,324.83 and sold the shares on 25 th, 26th and 27th of May

2010 and earned a profit of Rs. 95,77,614/-. It was alleged that the

appellant Rohit Gupta had insider information and was in possession

of UPSI in connivance with Sanjay Tayal, noticee No. 2 (now 10 deceased), Navin Tayal and Jyotika Tayal, noticee nos. 3 and 4

respectively. 6. The show cause notice further alleged that the appellant Rohit

Gupta was funded by Advik Textiles and its directors Kulwinder

Nayyar and Azam Shaikh, noticee Nos. 5 and 6 respectively. The

show cause notice, thus, alleged that all the noticees, namely, noticee

Nos. 1 to 7 had violated Section 12A(d) and (e) of the Securities and

Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as „ SEBI

Act ‟) as they were engaged in insider trading and were dealing in

securities while in possession of material price sensitive information.

It was alleged that Advik Textiles had violated Regulation 3A read

with Regulation 4 of the PIT Regulations, 1992 read with Regulation

12 of the PIT Regulations, 2015 and that all the noticee Nos. 1 to 7

had committed a fraud and, therefore, violated Regulations 3 and 4 of

the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of

Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relation to Securities Market)

Regulations, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as „PFUTP Regulations‟). 7. The stand of Rohit Gupta before the WTM was that he has

wrongly been charged for violating Section 12A of the SEBI Act or

for the PIT Regulations. The said appellant vehemently denied that

he was in possession of UPSI when he had traded in the scrip of 11 BoR. It was contended that the news of merger was already in the

public domain from May 6, 2010 and thus, the question of there

being an UPSI did not arise. It was further contended that 104

entities had traded almost 10,000 shares on May 18, 2010 and

whereas no investigation has been done against them, the appellant

has wrongly been investigated. The appellant contended that he has

not committed any fraud nor had violated Regulations 3 and 4 of the

PFUTP Regulations. The appellant contended that he was not an

insider nor a connected person nor a person deemed to be connected

and was not related to the Company. On the other hand, he was an

active investor trading in mutual funds and was a man of means and

had a balance of a few crores in his bank accounts. 8. Before the WTM, the statement of Rohit Gupta was recorded

wherein he admitted that Rs. 116.44 lac were transferred through

RTGS to his bank account on May 18, 2010 and May 19, 2010 by

Advik Textiles. It was alleged that this amount was transferred

pursuant to any agreement for sale dated May 1, 2010 entered

between the appellant Rohit Gupta with Advik Textiles for sale of

four shops by the appellant Rohit Gupta to Advik Textiles for a total

consideration of Rs. 1,74,64,860/-. Further, 2/3rd of the amount

totaling Rs.116.44 lac was paid up front. It was also stated that this 12 agreement for sale was terminated on June 3, 2010 and the amount

was refunded on June 17, 2010. Rohit Gupta admitted that the

agreement was not a registered agreement nor there were any

witnesses to the agreement. 9. Noticee Nos. 2, 3 and 4, namely, Sanjay Tayal, Navin Tayal

and Jyotika Tayal (hereinafter referred to as „Tayal family‟) have

filed a common reply. During the pendency of the appeal, Sanjay

Tayal died. They contended that they were not the directors of

Advik Textiles and, therefore, Advik Textiles cannot be deemed to

be a connected person under Regulation 2(h)(ix) of the PIT

Regulations. Further, Sanjay Tayal nor Navin Tayal were

shareholders in this Company though it has come on record that

Navin Tayal was a director from June 2, 2008 till March 2, 2010 and,

therefore, continued to remain an authorized signatory of the bank

accounts of the Advik Textiles. The Tayal family contended that

they were not in possession of any UPSI and, in any case, the

information was available in the public domain and, therefore, the

question of existence of a price sensitive information did not arise. 10. The noticee Nos. 5, 6 and 7, namely, Advik Textiles and its

two directors submitted that it was a business deal for purchase of

four shops and they had paid Rs. 116.44 lac as an advance towards 13 2/3rd of the sale consideration. It was also contended that

subsequently, the agreement was terminated on June 3, 2010 and the

money was refunded on June 17, 2010. It was contended that the

directors of Advik Textiles were not privy to any UPSI. 11. The WTM after considering the material evidence on record

and after hearing the parties held that the information regarding

merger of BoR with ICICI between May 7, 2010 to May 18, 2010

was an UPSI. The WTM found that the contention of the noticees

that the information relating to merger was no longer an UPSI as it

was published in the newspaper on 6th and 7th May 2010 and was,

thus, in the public domain was not accepted nor could be taken into

consideration in as much as such publication in the newspaper does

not come within the parameters of unpublished information as

defined under Regulation 2(k) of the PIT Regulations which

explicitly states that reports printed in the print media is not a

published information. 12. The WTM further found that Rohit Gupta to be connected

person and that he was an insider in possession of price sensitive

information. The WTM concluded on the basis of proximity with the

Tayal family, namely, family connection and connection with Advik

Textiles that Rohit Gupta was an insider and in possession of UPSI. 14 The WTM on the basis of substantial evidence found that the

appellant Rohit Gupta was not an active investor nor dealt with in

any scrip except the scrip in question of BoR and a few mutual funds

and that he had not traded thereafter and had never traded in the scrip

of BoR since 2005-06 and, therefore, concluded that on a

preponderance of probability, that the appellant Rohit Gupta was an

insider having unpublished price information. The WTM further

found that Rohit Gupta‟s sister, noticee No. 4, whose husband was

Sanjay Tayal and was actively involved in the merger discussions

and based on this proximity, an irresistible inference was drawn by

the WTM that both Jyotika and Rohit Gupta had knowledge about

the merger and possessed UPSI. The WTM also found that Rohit

Gupta had very cordial relationship with his sister and that the

appellant Rohit Gupta was closely connected with the Tayal family.

Further, purchasing shares on 17th and 18th May 2010 was unusual

when Rohit Gupta was not a regular trader / investor. 13. The WTM further found that Advik Textiles was wholly

owned by the Tayal family from September 29, 2008 to March 2,

2010. Navin Tayal and Jyotika Tayal held 100% shares of Advik

and thereafter they resigned and Kulwinder Nayyar and Azam

Shaikh, noticee Nos. 6 and 7 became directors with 50% 15 shareholders each from March 2, 2010 to September 10, 2010 and

thereafter Navin Tayal and Jyotika Tayal again became directors

holding 100% shares of Advik Textiles from September 5, 2012. On

the basis of this shareholding pattern, the WTM found that even

though Navin Tayal and Jyotika Tayal had relinquished the

directorship during the UPSI period in question, nonetheless, they

still controlled the Company as Navin Tayal continued to remain as

the authorized signatory of the Company. 14. Further, the WTM found that the address of Advik Texiles

was as under :- 15. This is the same address as of BoR. Further, it was found that

the appellant Rohit Gupta, was the Managing Director in Elemento

Lifestyle Pvt. Ltd. since 2005. Thus, there is a direct connection of

the appellant Rohit Gupta with Advik Textiles and with the Tayal

family and, therefore, the WTM came to a conclusion that the Advik

Textiles was connected to Tayal as well as to Rohit Gupta. The

WTM further came to the conclusion that the agreement for sale

dated May 1, 2010 executed between Rohit Gupta and Advik 16 Textiles was only a sham transaction to cover up the scheme of

insider trading and to fund Rohit Gupta for the purpose of purchasing

the scrips of BoR. The WTM came to the conclusion that this

agreement for sale was neither registered nor were there any

witnesses in this agreement for sale, and therefore it was only a piece

of paper which had no evidentiary value. 16. The WTM further found that the directors Kulwinder Nayyar

and Azam Shaikh, noticee Nos. 6 and 7 were closely associated with

the Tayal family and were directors in more than 14 companies

which was floated and managed by the Tayal family. 17. Based on the aforesaid findings, the WTM came to the

conclusion that the appellants had violated Section 12A(d) and (e) of

the SEBI Act read with Regulations 3 and 4 of the PIT Regulations.

The WTM further found that the charge of fraud under Regulations 3

and 4 were not proved and, therefore, the order of disgorgement and

debarment was passed. 18. We have heard Mr. Gaurav Joshi, the learned senior counsel,

Mr. Saurabh Bachhawat, Mr. Pulkit Sharma, the learned counsel and

Mr. Pradeep Sancheti, the learned senior counsel for the appellants

and Mr. Mustafa Doctor, the learned senior counsel alongwith 17 Mr. Abhiraj Arora, Ms. Rashi Dalmia, the learned counsel for the

respondent through video conference. 19. The contention of the appellant Rohit Gupta is that in the

first instance, there was no UPSI, the said information was in the

public domain from May 6, 2010 onwards. It was contended that in

the absence of UPSI, the charge of insider trading cannot be levelled

against him. In the alternative, it was urged that assuming there

existed an UPSI, there was no evidence to show that UPSI was

transferred to the appellant Rohit Gupta. It was contended that the

appellant had no role to play in the negotiation with regard to the

merger of the two banks. Only the dominant shareholders Sanjay

Tayal and Pravin Tayal were involved in the negotiation, even

though Sanjay Tayal is his brother-in-law, nonetheless, there is no

evidence to show that the appellant was privy to the negotiation and /

or the UPSI. In the absence of any plausible evidence, it was

contended that the findings of the WTM were being based on

surmises and conjectures cannot be accepted. 20. It was also urged by the appellant Rohit Gupta that the

WTM has miserably failed to establish the charge of trading against

the appellant and has been found guilty only on the basis of

preponderance of probability. In this regard, the learned counsel for 18 the appellant had relied upon a decision of this Tribunal in Dilip S.

Pendse vs. SEBI Appeal No. 80 of 2009 decided on November 19,

2009, wherein this Tribunal has held as under :- 21. It was urged by Rohit Gupta that he was not privy to the

transfer of funds by Advik Textiles to the appellant as he did not

authorize the said transfer. It was contended that the appellant was a

man of means and had a credit balance of Rs. 116.43 lacs in his

account between May 5, 2010 to May 10, 2010 which would show

that there was no need for any transfer of funds by Advik Textiles for

the purpose of buying the shares of BoR. It was contended that it

was a pure and simple business deal between the appellant Rohit

Gupta with Advik Textiles for sale of four shops for a total

consideration of Rs. 1.74 crore out of which 2/3rd was paid

amounting to Rs. 116 lac as an advance payment. It was urged that

such transfer of money during the same time could not be related to

some deep rooted plan or conspiracy for buying the shares. It was

contended that since the deal did not fructify, the agreement was 21 terminated and the advance money was refunded. Subsequently, at a

later point of time, a suit was filed by the appellant Rohit Gupta

against Advik Textiles with regard to the payment of interest which

was disposed of in terms of a consent compromise. 22. The appellant Rohit Gupta further urged that the calculation

of disgorgement is totally erroneous. According to the appellant the

price has to be calculated on the basis of the price of the share when

UPSI was made public and not on the basis of calculation of the price

when the shares were sold. In support of his submission, the learned

counsel placed reliance on a decision of this Tribunal in Karvy Stock

Broking Ltd. vs. SEBI Appeal No. 6 of 2007 decided on May 2,

2008, wherein this Tribunal explained the meaning of the word

disgorgement. For facility, the relevant portion is extracted

hereunder ;- ―5. Before we deal with the contentions of the parties,
 it is necessary to understand what disgorgement is. It is
 a common term in developed markets across the world
 though it is new to the securities market in India.
 Black's Law Dictionary defines disgorgement as ―The
 act of giving up something (such as profits illegally
 obtained) on demand or by legal compulsion.‖ In
 commercial terms, disgorgement is the forced giving up
 of profits obtained by illegal or unethical acts. It is a
 repayment of ill-gotten gains that is imposed on
 wrongdoers by the courts. Disgorgement is a monetary
 equitable remedy that is designed to prevent a
 wrongdoer from unjustly enriching himself as a result 22 of his illegal conduct. It is not a punishment nor is it
 concerned with the damages sustained by the victims of
 the unlawful conduct. Disgorgement of illgotten gains
 may be ordered against one who has violated the
 securities laws/regulations but it is not every violator
 who could be asked to disgorge. Only such wrongdoers
 who have made gains as a result of their illegal act(s)
 could be asked to do so. Since the chief purpose of
 ordering disgorgement is to make sure that the
 wrongdoers do not profit from their wrongdoing, it
 would follow that the disgorgement amount should not
 exceed the total profits realized as the result of the
 unlawful activity. In a disgorgement action, the burden
 of showing that the amount sought to be disgorged
 reasonably approximates the amount of unjust
 enrichment is on the Board.‖ 23. In addition to the aforesaid, reliance was placed on another

decision in S.E.C. v. Patel 61 F.3d 137 (2d Cir. 1995) decided on

July 24, 1995, wherein it was held ―where stock is purchased on the

basis of inside information, the proper measure of damages is the

difference between the price paid for the share at the time of

purchase and the price of the shares shortly after disclosure of the

inside information‖. 24. On the aforesaid basis of the two decisions, it was urged

that the calculation made by the WTM on the basis of the difference

between the price of the shares purchased and the price of share sold

was arbitrary and requires reconsideration. 23 25. It was also contended that the interest charged at the rate of

12% p. a. from the date of the alleged transactions i.e. May 18, 2010

was wholly arbitrary and excessive. It was urged that interest should

be charged from the date on which the cause of action arose i.e. when

the amount of disgorgement was calculated which was only finalized

when the impugned order was passed on November 22, 2017. It was

thus, contended that interest prior to from the date of the impugned

order cannot be calculated. In support of his submission reliance was

made on a decision of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Dushyant

Dalal & Anr. vs. SEBI [(2017) 9 SCC 660], where the Hon‟ble

Supreme Court held as under :- 26. Reliance was also made on a decision of this Tribunal

Shailesh S. Jhaveri vs. SEBI Appeal No. 79 of 2012 decided on

October 4, 2012. 27. It was urged that the rate of interest at the rate of 12% p.a.

was wholly excessive and was not in consonance with the interest

rate prevailing at the time of either when the impugned order was

passed or at the time when the alleged transactions took place. In the

end, it was urged that there has been an undue delay of seven years in

the issuance of the notice. It was contended that the proceedings 25 initiated were wholly belated. The alleged transaction is of the year

2010 whereas the show cause notice was issued after seven years on

October 18, 2017. No reason has been given as to why the

proceedings could not be initiated earlier and, therefore, on the

ground of an inordinate delay the proceedings should be quashed. In

support of his submission, the learned counsel has placed reliance in

Ashok Shivlal Rupani & Anr. Appeal No. 417 of 2018 decided on

August 22, 2019 alongwith connected appeal and ICICI Bank Ltd.

vs. SEBI Appeal No. 583 of 2019 decided on July 8, 2020 and

Ashlesh Gunvantbhai Shah Appeal No. 169 of 2019 alongwith

connected appeals decided on January 31, 2020. 28. On the other hand, the respondent have contended that the

order of the WTM debarring the appellants and directing

disgorgement as well as the order of the AO directing payment of

penalty to be paid jointly and severally does not suffer from any

error of law. It was contended that the foundational facts are not

only based on circumstantial evidence and preponderance of

probability which is also based on direct evidence. It was contended

that the inference drawn by the authorities in the impugned order is

reasonable which can be legitimately arrived at on a consideration to

the totality of the material evidence before it. It was contended that

based on the foundational facts, it was clearly established that Rohit 26 Gupta had access to UPSI and traded on the basis of price sensitive

information. It was, thus, contended that the findings that Rohit

Gupta traded on the basis of UPSI does not suffer from any manifest

error of law. It was contended that disgorgement is an equitable

remedy and that the amount to be disgorged is left to the discretion of

the authority which has rightly been exercised. The method adopted

was fair and reasonable which requires no interference. It was

further contended that there was no undue delay in the issuance of

the show cause notice and that the show cause notice was issued

immediately after the investigation was completed. It was also

contended that the other appellants were equally guilty of the illegal

trades as they were not only connected with each other but also

connived with one another and, consequently, a common penalty was

imposed. 29. From the above sequence of events, the admitted facts, as

culled out is, that Rohit Gupta is the brother of Jyotika Tayal.

Jyotika Tayal is the wife of Sanjay Tayal (deceased). Sanjay Tayal

was one of the persons involved in the merger discussions. Sanjay

Tayal was also a signatory to the binding agreement. Sanjay Tayal

had inside information. Rohit Gupta purchased shares on 17th & 18th

May 2010 and sold on 25th and 27th May 2010 and made a profit of

Rs. 95,77,614/- on 18th and 19th May 2010. Rohit Gupta received 27 Rs. 116.44 lac from Advik Textiles. This amount was utilized to

purchase the shares. The proceeds of the sale made by Rohit Gupta

was deposited in his account on June 2, 2010 and on the very next

day i.e. June 3, 2010, the sale agreement between Rohit Gupta and

Advik Textiles was terminated and the alleged amount of advance

given to Rohit Gupta pursuant to this agreement was refunded on

June 17, 2010. Further, at the time when the trades were executed

by Rohit Gupta on 17th and 18th May 2010, he had a balance of Rs.

1,32,747.78 in his bank account which was insufficient to pay the

purchase price of the shares which he had executed on 17th and 18th

May 2010. Advik Textiles was closely connected with the Tayal

Group. Further, Rohit Gupta was not a regular trader in the securities

market. 29. In order to fulfill the mandate to protect the interest of the

investors in the securities market, SEBI is empowered to lift the

corporate veil and find out the truth whenever the interest of the

investors are likely to be affected otherwise SEBI would be a mute

spectator to the corporate misdeeds which may affect the interest of

the investors. In this regard, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in N.

Narayan vs. SEBI [(2013) 12 SCC 152] held as under : 28 30. In the light of the aforesaid, the contentions raised by the

appellants are dealt with hereunder. 31. The shares in question were purchased on 17th and 18th May

2010 and were sold on 25th and 27th May 2010. Investigation was

carried out from 2013 to 2015 in which 104 persons were examined

and summons were issued to 87 persons. Based on the investigation,

a report was submitted on December 12, 2015 based on which an

impounding order was passed immediately thereafter on January 5, 30 2016 wherein a slew of directions were passed against the appellants.

One of the entities, namely, Advik Textiles filed an appeal before

this Tribunal which was disposed of by an order dated October 11,

2017 directing SEBI to pass a final order within six months. Based

on the directions by this Tribunal, a show cause notice was issued on

October 18, 2017 and the impugned order was passed on November

22, 2017. 32. Considering the aforesaid sequence of events, we find that the

contention of the appellants that there was an inordinate delay in the

initiation of the proceedings is erroneous. The allegation that the

inordinate delay has not been explained and the manner in which the

proceedings have been initiated shows lack of attitude in carrying out

their duties cannot be accepted. The contention that the delay has

had a dematerializing effect upon the appellants as the sword of

damocles was hanging on their heads since long is patently

erroneous. In our opinion, the proceedings were initiated the

moment it came to the notice of SEBI and, in the peculiar facts of

this case, a show cause notice was issued immediately after the

investigation report was submitted. We are of the opinion that in the

peculiar facts of the present case, when summons were issued to 104

persons and 87 of the were examined, there is no inordinate delay on 31 the part of the respondent in the issuance of the show cause notice.

The decision cited by the appellants which has been stated in the

preceding paragraphs are distinguishable and are not applicable in

the instant case. We are further of the opinion that no prejudice has

been caused to the appellants since nothing has been shown nor

urged in the arguments. The restraint order was passed on December

12, 2015 which was not challenged by the most of the appellants.

Therefore, in our opinion, there is no inordinate delay in the initiation

of the proceedings. The contention raised on this aspect is

accordingly rejected. 33. Before we deal on the question whether Rohit Gupta was an

insider or not, it would be appropriate to peruse a few provisions of

the relevant Regulations, namely, the PIT Regulations as hereunder : Explanation.--The following shall be deemed to be price
sensitive information :-- Explanation.--Speculative reports in print or electronic
 media shall not be considered as published information.‖ 34. The aforesaid provisions have been explained in various

decisions. For facility, the relevant paragraphs of various decisions

are extracted hereunder. 35. In SEBI vs. Kishore R. Ajmera [(2016) 6 SCC 368], the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court has held as under :- 36. In SEBI vs. Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel [(2017) 15 SCC 1],

the Hon‟ble Supreme Court has held as under :- 37. In SEBI vs. Rakhi Trading Pvt. Ltd. [(2018) 13 SCC 753], the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court has held as under :- the particulars of the buy and sell orders, namely, the
volume thereof; the proximity of time between the two
and such other relevant factors. The fact that the broker
himself has initiated the sale of a particular quantity of
the scrip on any particular day and at the end of the day
approximately equal number of the same scrip has come
back to him; that trading has gone on without settlement
of accounts i.e. without any payment and the volume of
trading in the illiquid scrips, all, should raise a serious
doubt in a reasonable man as to whether the trades are
genuine. The failure of the broker/sub-brokers to alert
themselves to this minimum requirement and their
persistence in trading in the particular scrip either over
a long period of time or in respect of huge volumes
thereof, in our considered view, would not only disclose 42 negligence and lack of due care and caution but would
also demonstrate a deliberate intention to indulge in
trading beyond the forbidden limits thereby attracting
the provisions of the FUTP Regulations.‖
 (emphasis supplied)

―66. In Nirmal Bang Securities (P) Ltd. v. SEBI, SAT applied the test of price, quantity and time to hold that
synchronised trading in that case was violative of norms
of trading in securities and held as under : (SCC OnLine
SAT para 280)

 ―280. BEB has been charged for synchronized deals
with First Global. I have examined the data provided by
the parties on this issue. I find many transactions
between BEB and FGSB. There are many instances of
such transaction. I find the scrip, quantity and price of
these orders had been synchronised by the counter-party
brokers. Such transactions undoubtedly create an
artificial market to mislead the genuine investors.
Synchronised trading is violative of all prudential and
transparent norms of trading in securities. Synchronised trading on a large scale, can create false
volumes. The argument that the parties had no means of
knowing whether any entity controlled by the client is
simultaneously entering any contra order elsewhere for
the reason that in the online trading system,
confidentially of counter parties is ensured, is untenable.
It was submitted by the appellants that it was not
possible for the broker to know who the counter-party
broker is and that trades were not synchronised but it
was only a coincidence in some cases. Theoretically this
is OK. But when parties decide to synchronise the
transaction the story is different. There are many
transactions giving an impression that these were all
synchronised, otherwise there was no possibility of such
perfect matching of quantity, price, etc. As the
respondent rightly stated it is too much of a coincidence
over too long a period in too many transactions when
both parties to the transaction had entered buy and sell
orders for the same quantity of shares almost
simultaneously. The data furnished in the show cause 43 notice certainly goes to prove the synchronised nature of
the transaction which is in violation of Regulation 4 of
the FUTP Regulations. The facts on record
categorically establish that BEB had indulged in
synchronised trading in violation of Regulation 47of the
FUTP Regulations. In a synchronised trading intention
is implicit.‖

―67. In the quasi-judicial proceeding before SEBI, the
standard of proof is preponderance of probability. In a
case of similar synchronized trading involving same set
of brokers emphasising that the standard of proof is
―preponderance of probability‖ in paras 26 and 27, in Kishore R. Ajmera case, this Court held as under : (SCC
p. 383)

 ―26. It is a fundamental principle of law that proof
of an allegation levelled against a person may be in the
form of direct substantive evidence or, as in many cases,
such proof may have to be inferred by a logical process of
reasoning from the totality of the attending facts and
circumstances surrounding the allegations/charges made
and levelled. While direct evidence is a more certain
basis to come to a conclusion, yet, in the absence thereof
the courts cannot be helpless. It is the judicial duty to
take note of the immediate and proximate facts and
circumstances surrounding the events on which the
charges/allegations are founded and to reach what would
appear to the court to be a reasonable conclusion
therefrom. The test would always be that what inferential
process that a reasonable/prudent man would adopt to
arrive at a conclusion.‖
 (emphasis supplied)

―68. There was no possibility of such perfect matching
of quantity timing, prices, etc. between the same parties
unless there was prior meeting of minds or a specific
understanding/arrangement between the parties. After
referring to Ketan Parekh and Nirmal Bang cases, in
Accord Capital Markets Ltd., In re, SEBI held as under : 38. In Chintalapati Srinivasa Raju vs. SEBI [(2018) 7 SCC 443],

the Hon‟ble Supreme Court has held as under :- 39. In Utsav Pathak vs. SEBI Appeal No. 430 of 2019 decided

on June 12, 2020, the Tribunal has held as under :- 40. The contention that there was no distinctive material to show

that the appellant Rohit Gupta was privy to UPSI and, therefore, not

an insider cannot be accepted. In the instant case, on the basis of the

foundational facts, it can be reasonably inferred and established on a

preponderance of probability that the appellant Rohit Gupta had

access to UPSI and traded on the basis of price sensitive information.

This is borne out from the fact that Rohit Gupta, Sanjay Tayal

(deceased) and Jyotika Tayal are close relatives. Jyotika Tayal is the

sister of Rohit Gupta and was the wife of Sanjay Tayal who was

involved in the merger discussions. Sanjay Tayal admittedly had

inside information. By a deeming fiction of law, his wife also had

inside information. Rohit Gupta being the brother-in-law of Sanjay

Tayal and having close cordial relationship, an irresistible inference

can be drawn that he had access to this price sensitive information.

Further, Rohit Gupta was not a regular trader and all of sudden he 50 makes trades on 17th and 18th May 2010 during the time when the

binding agreement was executed is not a coincidence but raises a red

flag and indicates that the trades were executed based on UPSI.

Rohit Gupta did not have enough funds to purchase the shares and

accordingly, an amount was transferred from Advik Textiles which is

a company which was closely connected with the Tayal Group. The

payment to the broker was made on May 20, 2010 after the amount

was received by Rohit Gupta from Advik Textiles. 41. The expression "reasonably accepted" means material to show

that such person could reasonably be accepted to have access to

UPSI. The proximate facts and circumstances surrounding the events

clearly indicates that Rohit Gupta had access to UPSI. 42. The contention that there was no UPSI as the same

information was in the public domain from May 6, 2010 onwards

cannot be accepted. It was contended that there were newspaper

reports with regard to merger discussions between Tayal‟s and ICICI

Bank and, therefore, the information being in the public domain

could no longer be considered as an UPSI. In this regard,

Regulations 2(k) of the PIT Regulations clearly indicates that news

report cannot be treated as a published information. Thus, reliance

on newspaper reports cannot be taken to mean that the UPSI was 51 now in the public domain. Even otherwise, the appellant Rohit Gupta

has relied upon the newspaper report dated May 6, 2010 which

suggests that differences had arisen between parties as a result of the

proposed merger which was unlikely to take place. Therefore, this

news report of May 6, 2010 cannot be considered as the news of the

merger taking place. Further, reliance on a newspaper report dated

May 18, 2010 in the Live Mint was erroneous in as much as the said

news report was published on 11 P. M. on May 18, 2010 after more

than 12 hours of the trades made by Rohit Gupta. Thus, the trades

made by Rohit Gupta on 17th and 18th May 2010 cannot be based on

the news report either of May 5, 2010 or of May 18, 2010. 43. The contention that the appellant was a man of substantive

means and did not require funds from Advik Textiles to trade is

patently erroneous. At the time when the trades were executed on

17th and 18th May 2010, the appellant Rohit Gupta only had

Rs. 1,32,747.78 and, therefore, could not pay for the purchase of the

shares. Rohit Gupta received Rs. 116.44 lac from Advik Textiles

through RTGS transfer on 18th and 19th May 2010, based on which

the broker was paid on May 20, 2010. The explanation given by

Rohit Gupta that the funds transfer from Advik Textiles was on the

basis of an agreement dated May 1, 2010 between him and Advik 52 Textiles for sale of four shops is an eye wash. Such agreement

cannot be taken as an evidentiary value in as much as it was not an

agreement either registered nor it was on a stamp paper nor there

were any witness to the said agreement. Under Sec. 17 of the

Registration Act 1908, an agreement to transfer any immovable

property is required to be compulsory registered which in the instant

case is lacking. The document is not on a stamp paper and there are

no attesting witnesses. Thus the document has no evidentiary value.

Further, if an agreement was executed on May 1, 2010, no

explanation has been given as to why the advance money was given

only on 18th and 19th May 2010. Further, the evidence clearly

indicates that Navin Tayal and Jyotika Tayal were 100% owners of

Advik Textiles and that the address of Advik Textiles is C/o.

Elemento Lifestyle Ltd., Raghuvansh Mansion, 11, Senapati Bapat

Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400 013. The evidence that has come

on record is that Rohit Kumar was the Managing Director in this

company Elemento Lifestyle Ltd. Thus, there was a direct link

between Rohit Gupta and Advik Textiles. Further, said address is

also the corporate address of the BOR and, therefore, Advik Textiles,

Rohit Gupta and Tayal‟s had a common link. Thus, the contention

that Rohit Gupta was not privy to transfer of funds by Advik Textiles

to trade as he did not authorize the company is clearly an 53 afterthought and is an irrelevant consideration. The sequence of

events clearly indicates that the appellant could not have purchased

the shares but by the transfer of funds by Advik Textiles. 44. On disgorgement, the contention is that the price has to be

calculated on the basis of the price of the share when UPSI was made

public and not on the basis of the calculation of the price when the

shares were sold. In this regard, reliance has been made by the

appellants in the case of Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. vs. SEBI Appeal

No. 6 of 2007 decided on May 2, 2008, wherein the principle of

disgorgement was propounded in paragraph 5 which is extracted

hereunder :- 45. Reliance was also made on the decision in S. C. E. vs. Patel 61 F.3d 137 (2d Cir 1995) dated July 24, 1995, which is a decision

by the United States of Appeal Second circuit wherein it was held,

―where stock is purchased on the basis of inside information the

proper measure of damages is the difference between the price paid

for shares at the time of purchase and the price of the share shortly

after disclosure of the inside information.‖ It was, thus, urged that

calculation on the basis of difference between the price of shares

purchased and price of shares sold was arbitrary and should be set

aside. 46. The submission though attractive cannot be accepted in the

present set of circumstances. Disgorgement is an equitable remedy

where shares are purchased and sold, then the difference between the

price sold and the price purchased gives unlawful gains which is the

appropriate method when the sale price and the purchase price are

known. The method asked by the appellants will only apply in a 55 situation when there is no sale price. Thus, the decisions cited by the

appellants are not applicable in the instant case. In fact, the decision

in S C. E. vs. Patel (supra) cited by the appellants also indicates that

the method adopted is only applicable when the sale price is not

capable of being computed with exactitude. Thus, we do not find

any error in the method of computation / calculation of the unlawful

gains made by the WTM. The decisions cited by the appellants in

the case of Himani Patel vs. SEBI in appeal No. 154 of 2008 dated September 7, 2009 and Dushyant Dalal vs. SEBI in appeal No. 182

of 2009 decided on November 12, 2010 are distinguishable. 47. It was urged that the rate of interest awarded is excessive and

arbitrary and further the interest could only be levied from the date of

the order and not from the date of cause of action. This contention

cannot be accepted. The appellants made unlawful gains in 2010 and

have earned interest on it, and therefore, the authority was justified in

imposing interest on the disgorged amount from the date of the cause

of action and not from the date of the order. Further, nothing has

been brought of record to indicate that in 2010, the rate of interest

was lower than what has been levied in the impugned order.

Consequently, in the absence of any documentary evidence, no

latitude can be given to the appellants on this aspect. 56 48. It was contended that Navin Tayal and Jyotika Tayal had no

role in the merger discussions and, therefore, cannot be held to have

inside information merely because Navin Tayal was the brother of

Sanjay Tayal or Jyotika Tayal was the wife of Sanjay Tayal. It was

contended that there was no evidence to show that the appellants

circulated an UPSI to Rohit Gupta nor were these appellants had any

role in the transfer of funds by Advik Textiles as they were not

directors of the company at that moment of time. It was urged that

Navin Tayal and Jyotika Tayal were not shareholders of Advik

Textiles nor were directors during the period in consideration and

there was nothing to show that they had inside information or were

privy to the UPSI. Consequently, they cannot be called a tipper as

they were never provided any information to Rohit Gupta. The

contention of the appellants Navin Tayal and Jyotika Tayal cannot be

accepted. The fact that the Navin Tayal was the brother of Sanjay

Tayal and Jyotika Tayal was the wife of the Sanjay Tayal leads to an

irresistible inference that they had inside information and, in any

case, were deemed to be connected persons having inside

information. The sequence of events clearly indicates that these

appellants conspired to make unlawful gain. The fact that Sanjay

Tayal, Rohit Gupta and Advik Textiles were closely connected 57 cannot be disputed. This is direct evidence and on this foundational

fact, an irresistible inference can be drawn on the preponderance of

probability that there was a conspiracy which led to the purchase of

shares by Rohit Gupta on the basis of UPSI. The funds were

provided by Advik Textiles which was the company wholly owned

by Navin Tayal and Jyotika Tayal till March 03, 2010, after which

they resigned and the shareholding were transferred to Kulwinder

Nayyar and Azam Shaikh who became the directors for a short

period. After the event, Navin Tayal and Jyotika Tayal again became

directors of Advik holding together 100% of the shareholding.

Admittedly, negotiation had started in February 2010 and at that time

Navin Tayal and Jyotika Tayal were the directors in Advik. When

the deal has started materializing this conspiracy was evolved and

Navin Tayal and Jyotika Tayal resigned as directors and making their

henchmen as the directors. After this event Navin Tayal and Jyotika

Tayal again became directors holding 50% each of the total

shareholding in Advik Textiles. These facts leads to an irresistible

inference that based on the conspiracy, money was transferred from

Advik Textiles to Rohit Gupta for purchase of the shares. There is an

another aspect even after they had resigned as directors from March

10, 2010, Navin Tayal remained a signatory to the bank accounts of

the Advik Textiles and, therefore, had a control over the funds of the 58 company. Thus, it cannot be doubted that Navin Tayal and Jyotika

Tayal conspired to make an illegal gain through Rohit Gupta. The

findings given by the WTM cannot be faulted. 49. The contention that an order of disgorgement cannot be

fastened upon the appellants jointly and severally cannot be accepted.

Reliance in the case of Mahavir Chauhan vs. SEBI Appeal No. 393

of 2018 decided on October 18, 2019 is distinguishable. The

findings of this Tribunal in the case of Mahavir Chauhan (supra)

was based on the fact that the WTM had in that case separately

quantified the profit made by each of the noticees and consequently,

in that context this Tribunal held that there cannot be the order for

joint and several liability. On the other hand, in the case of Dhaval

Mehta vs. SEBI Appeal No. 155 of 2008 decided on September 8,

2005, this Tribunal has held as under :- 50. Further, in SEC vs. David E. Whittmore and Peter S. Cahill

[659 F.3d 1 (D.C. Cir. 2011)], it was held :- 51. In addition to the aforesaid, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in

the case of Chintalapati Srinivasa Raju vs. SEBI [(2018) 7 SCC

443] has held :- 52. Advik Textiles, Azam Shaikh and Kulvinder contended that

they had only advanced money pursuant to an agreement of sale and

had no UPSI nor traded and, therefore, the charge of insider trading

cannot be levelled on them. It was urged that they were not involved

in the trades executed by Rohit Gupta and that merely because Azam 64 and Kulvinder were the directors, the charge of insider trading cannot

be levelled. Further, the charge of violation of Regulations 3 and 4

of the PFUTP Regulations cannot be levelled as they have not traded

in any securities. The contentions raised cannot be accepted. The

charge is one of conspiracy in the commissioning of the offence of

insider trading. Admittedly, Kulwinder and Azam were the directors

of Advik Textiles at the time when the funds were transferred for the

purpose of purchase of the shares in question. The connection

between Rohit Gupta and Tayal‟s has been established in paragraph

33 of the impugned order which indicates that Kulwinder Nayyar and

Azam Shaikh were closely associated with the Tayal‟s and they were

directors in 14 companies possessed by the Tayal group. These

appellants have contravened Section 12A(d) of the SEBI Act and,

therefore, the order of the WTM cannot be faulted. 53. In so far as the appeals against the order of the AO is

concerned, we find that the show cause notice dated July 31, 2018

was served on all the noticees, in spite of which they failed to appear

and did not file their responses. Accordingly, by the impugned order

dated May 29, 2020, the AO imposed a penalty of Rs. 3 Crore to be

paid by all the noticees jointly and severally. 65 54. The contention of the appellants is that adequate opportunity

was not provided and that they had asked for time to inspect the

documents and to adjourn the date of hearing in spite of which their

application remained unattended and the AO proceeded arbitrarily

and had passed an ex-parte order against them. It was urged that the

impugned order is violative of the principles of natural justice. 55. It was urged that the notice dated December 27, 2019

intimating the appellants that the inspection of the documents can be

made on January 30, 2020 was only received by the appellants on

January 28, 2020 and, therefore, it was not possible to inspect the

documents on such short notice and consequently vide letter dated

February 11, 2020 a request was made to the AO to grant further

opportunity to inspect the documents and reschedule the hearing

which was fixed for February 17, 2020. 56. The aforesaid contentions have been denied by the respondent. 57. Considering the matter and upon a perusal of the record, we

find that pursuant to the show cause notice dated July 31, 2018 which

was duly served on all the notices, the appellants were required to

appear on September 3, 2019 and file a reply which they failed to do

so. By a letter dated December 9, 2018 some of the noticees, 66 namely, Navin Tayal and Jyotika Tayal intimated that their

authorized signatory would appear on their behalf but failed to

appear on next date i.e. September 3, 2019. On September 3, 2019,

the AO fixed the hearing date for September 17, 2019. All the

noticees requested for an adjournment on September 17, 2019 and

prayed that they may be provided an opportunity to inspect the

documents. The AO, in the interest of justice, adjourned the matter

for November 18, 2019. Prior to that date, noticee No. 1 on

November 4, 2019 and on November 5, 2019, the appellants Navin

Tayal, Jyotika Tayal and Azam Shaikh, on November 14, 2019

Advik and on November 15, 2019 Kulwinder Nayyar vide the letters

requested the AO for inspection of documents. The matter was

accordingly adjourned on November 18, 2019 and vide notice dated

December 27, 2019, all the noticees were given an opportunity to

inspect the documents on January 30, 2020. By the said notice, all

the noticees were intimated that the hearing would be fixed on

February 17, 2020. The record indicates that no one appeared to

inspect the documents on January 30, 2020 in spite of the receipt of

the notice nor appeared on the date fixed for hearing i.e. February 17,

2020 and accordingly the AO proceeded ex-parte and passed the

impugned order. 58. The contention that the notice dated December 12, 2019 was

received by the appellants on January 28, 2020 was vehemently

denied by the respondent. The respondent contended that the said

notice was received by the appellants on January 17, 2020 and proof

of delivery of service has been annexed to the reply. It was

contended that the letter of the appellants dated February 11, 2020

seeking further time to inspect the documents and for adjournment

and for reschedulement of the hearing was never received and the

appellants were put to strict proof. In rejoinder, the appellants

admitted that the notice dated December 27, 2019 was received on

January 17, 2020 but was not placed before the appellants and,

therefore, could not appear for inspection of documents. It was also

stated that on account of personal exigency, the appellants could not

attend the date fixed for hearing. No proof have been filed by the

appellants with regard to the service of letter dated February 11,

2020. 59. In view of the aforesaid narration of the facts, it is apparently

clear that the appellants were duly served with the notice. Adequate

opportunity was provided to inspect the documents and appear on the

date fixed for hearing. The appellants chose not to inspect the

documents nor appeared personally nor appeared through their 68 authorized representative on the date fixed for hearing.

Consequently, we are of the opinion that the principles of natural

justice was fully complied with. The appellants deliberately chose

not to participate in the proceedings and, therefore, we do not find

any fault in the proceedings adopted by the AO. The order of the

AO does not suffer from any error of law. 60. In view of the aforesaid, all the appeals filed against the order

of the WTM and against the order of the AO are dismissed with no

order as to costs. 61. The present matter was heard through video conference due to

Covid-19 pandemic. At this stage, it is not possible to sign a copy of

this order nor a certified copy of this order could be issued by the

Registry. In these circumstances, this order will be digitally signed

by the Private Secretary on behalf of the bench and all concerned

parties are directed to act on the digitally signed copy of this order.

Parties will act on production of a digitally signed copy sent by fax

and/or email. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Justice M. T. Joshi
 Judicial Member
02.08.2021 RAJALA Digitally
 by
 signed

 KSHMI RAJALAKSHMI
 NAIR
 H

PTM Date: 2021.08.02
 H NAIR 14:18:10 +05'30'